=== STOCK CLUES: Robert Bridges ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 11 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's third part includes a section "On Obsolete Mannerisms" that examines recession of accent, while its first part defends its use of the term "elision" to account for "supernumerary syllables." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milton's Prosody (, with a chapter on Accentual Verse and Notes) (by Robert Bridges)):
    Name this 1921 critical text whose author carried its ideas into a system of syllabic verse employed in such poems as "Poor Poll" (pahl) and The Testament of Beauty.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    Milton's Prosody is by Robert Bridges, whose "Neo-Miltonian syllabics" contrasted with the stress-timed "sprung rhythm" invented by this poet of "The Windhover," whose poems were published by Bridges.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland"):
    Bridges claimed to have been "shamefully worsted" in a "frontal assault" on this 35-stanza Hopkins poem, which ends with the tongue-twisting line "Our hearts' charity's hearth's fire, our thoughts' chivalry's throng's Lord."

[B2] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a letter between these two poets, one desperately asks the other "What does anything at all matter?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Bridges AND Gerald Manley Hopkins):
    Name these two poets, one of whom was the 1913 Poet Laureate of the UK. He posthumously published the other's poems in a 1918 collection, bringing him much fame.
  Part 2 (ans: University of Oxford):
    Bridges and Hopkins began their friendship when they met at this prestigious institution, the oldest university in England.
  Part 3 (ans: "Terrible Sonnets" [accept "Sonnets of Desolation"]):
    Although Bridges and Hopkins sent each other many letters, Hopkins never sent this group of six sonnets. Written in a depressive episode, they include "No Worse, There is None" and "Carrion Comfort."

[B3] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these other things about Paradise Lost :
  Part 1 (ans: twelve):
    William Blake's sets of illustrations for Paradise Lost each contain this many plates, which makes sense because the poem is comprised of this many books.
  Part 2 (ans: Milton's Prosody [by Robert Bridges]):
    This book evolved from an introduction to Paradise Lost requested by Henry Beeching and argues that the poem was not meant to be read exclusively in iambic pentameter because some lines only have three or four stressed syllables.

[B4] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The most popular English version of the hymn "Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring" was written by this poet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Bridges):
    Name this poet who wrote about the limitations of free verse in the essay "Humdrum and Harum-Scarum," as well as the long poem The Testament of Beauty.
  Part 2 (ans: John Milton):
    Bridges may be best known for his book on this poet's prosody. This author wrote tracts like The Doctrine and Discipline of Divorce, and defended the freedom of the press in Areopagitica.
  Part 3 (ans: "On the Morning of Christ's Nativity"):
    This poem by Milton includes a hymn which begins "It was the winter wild, while the Heav'n-born child, all meanly wrapt in the rude manger lies." It describes how Jesus vanquished oracles and pagan gods, and celebrates Jesus's birth.
