=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Robert Bridges ===
(Questions where 'Robert Bridges' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 6 found, 20 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2024 Maryland Spring (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - This poet declared that "each mortal thing does one thing and the same" in his poem "As Kingfishers Catch Fire," which embodies his Dun Scotus-derived concept of "inscape." Robert Bridges posthumously popularized the work of this poet who described a "sweet especial rural scene" in his poem "Binsey 

[TM2] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: purity [or pure poetry; accept Society for Pure English or "full many a gem of purest ray serene" or "because my heart is pure"]
  - In a 1942 essay, Robert Penn Warren wrote that "poetry wants to [have this quality], but poems do not." Dozens of tracts were published by a reformist society named for this quality that was founded on the initiative of Robert Bridges.
  - Poetry with this quality builds a "system of reciprocal relations," according to Paul Valery, whose advocacy of this quality in poetry was influenced by Poe's "The Poetic Principle." The term "naked poetry" was an alternate term used by (*) Juan Ramon Jimenez for poetry with this quality.
  - This word describes a "ray serene" that is mentioned in Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard." In a poem by Tennyson, Sir Galahad boasts of having the strength of ten people "because my heart [has this quality]." For 10 points, name this term often used for poetry that is unsullied by messa

[TM3] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - This poet described a "towery city and branchy between towers" in a poem titled for a philosopher who he thought of "in any inscape of the sky or sea." This poet described securing "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!" Many of this poet's verses were not widely available until they were dissem
  - This man scanned several of his poems with symbols known as outrides and began one verse "I caught this morning morning's minion." The editors of a Jesuit magazine "dared not print" a poem he wrote about the death of five Franciscan nuns fleeing Germany.
  - For 10 points, name this British poet who used sprung rhythm in "The Windhover" and "The Wreck of the Deutschland."

[TM4] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - In one of this author's poems, he claimed "each mortal thing" cries "What I do is me: for that I came".
  - He compared "man's mounting spirit" to one of his title figures, which is "beyond the remembering his free fells".
  - This author of "As Kingfishers (*) Catch Fire" and "The Caged Skylark" was posthumously popularised by Robert Bridges.
  - This poet called the title figure of one poem "morning's minion", and he opened one sonnet with "Glory be to God for dappled things".
  - For 10 points, name this British poet who pioneered sprung rhythm in "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty".

[TM5] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - A posthumous publication of his poems was arranged by the poet laureate, Robert Bridges.
  - The first section of Paul Mariani's biography of this man is titled "We Are So Grafted on His Wood" and comes from the last line of this man's poem about the Eucharist, "Barnfloor and Winepress." The speaker of one of his sonnets observes, "Generations have trod, have trod, have trod; / And all is s

[TM6] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - A poem by this man describes "pining till time when reason rambled in it" and laments the death of a man who suffered "some fatal four disorders".
  - The posthumous publication of most of this man's poetry was arranged by Robert Bridges.
  - This poet, who termed the essential unique nature of a given thing its "inscape", wrote a poem whose title entity "gathers to a greatness, like the ooze of oil" and "will flame out, like shining from shook foil".
  - While in Dublin, this author of (*) "Felix Randal" wrote "I Wake and Feel the Fell of Dark, Not Day", "Carrion Comfort", and his other so-called "terrible sonnets".
  - He extolled "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing" in a poem that describes a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon".
  - For 10 points, name this author of "God's Grandeur" and "The Windhover", who pioneered sprung rhythm in poems like "The Wreck of the Deutschland".

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's third part includes a section "On Obsolete Mannerisms" that examines recession of accent, while its first part defends its use of the term "elision" to account for "supernumerary syllables." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milton's Prosody (, with a chapter on Accentual Verse and Notes) (by Robert Bridges)):
    Name this 1921 critical text whose author carried its ideas into a system of syllabic verse employed in such poems as "Poor Poll" (pahl) and The Testament of Beauty.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    Milton's Prosody is by Robert Bridges, whose "Neo-Miltonian syllabics" contrasted with the stress-timed "sprung rhythm" invented by this poet of "The Windhover," whose poems were published by Bridges.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland"):
    Bridges claimed to have been "shamefully worsted" in a "frontal assault" on this 35-stanza Hopkins poem, which ends with the tongue-twisting line "Our hearts' charity's hearth's fire, our thoughts' chivalry's throng's Lord."

[BM2] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A form of free verse named for the "neo-" sort of this poet's "syllables" was used in the long poem The Testament of Beauty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Milton):
    Name this poet, whose "prosody" is studied in a Robert Bridges book that examines his use of unusual metric choices and stresses in lines like "No light; but rather darkness visible."
  Part 2 (ans: "of man's first disobedience"):
    Bridges demonstrates Milton's use of "supernumerary syllables" that disobey normal scansion rules with this four-word phrase that opens Book I of Paradise Lost.
  Part 3 (ans: Samson [accept Samson Agonistes]):
    Chapter II of Milton's Prosody examines the "accentual verse" in Milton's closet drama about this Biblical character, an Israelite judge who is betrayed by his lover Delilah.

[BM3] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A long poem with this concept in its title opens with the speaker stating that "Man's reason is in such deep insolvency to sense" that we can easily be led down the "sad pathways of Hell." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beauty [accept The Testament of Beauty or "She Walks in Beauty"]):
    Name this concept whose Testament titles a poem by Robert Bridges. The speaker of a different poem with this concept in its title describes a person who has a "mind at peace with all below" and a "heart whose love is innocent."
  Part 2 (ans: Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron]):
    The aforementioned poem "She Walks in Beauty" was written by this British Romantic poet of Don Juan.
  Part 3 (ans: John Milton (the poem is Paradise Lost)):
    The title character of this author's masque Comus claims that "beauty is nature's coin" and "must not be hoarded." Robert Bridges' book on the Prosody of this poet discusses a poem by this blind author that's intended to "justify the ways of God to men."

[BM4] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author described this set of poems as "the thin gleanings of a long weary while" to Robert Bridges. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: terrible sonnets [or the sonnets of desolation]):
    Name this set of poems which includes "No Worst, There is None," "Thou art indeed just, Lord" and "Carrion Comfort." These six poems express the religious doubts of the poet.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This author's last words were "I am so happy, I am so happy. I loved my life" despite the late-life depression that inspired his "terrible sonnets." This possibly homosexual Jesuit wrote "Pied Beauty" in his trademark sprung rhythm.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland"):
    This ode by Hopkins opens with an invocation to "Thou mastering me / God!" It is dedicated to five Franciscan nuns who drowned during the title event.

[BM5] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author addressed a poem to Melville that reads, in its entirety, "Saint Herman grant me this that I may be / Saved from the worms who have impested thee." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Arthur) Yvor Winters):
    Name this Stanford professor who wrote In Defense of Reason and was notorious for his iconoclastic takes about the canon of Western poetry, claiming, for instance, that Robert Bridges and Fulke Greville were better poets than T.S. Eliot and Edmund Spenser.
  Part 2 (ans: sonnet sequence [or sonnet cycle; prompt on sonnet]):
    Winters championed the work of George Gascoigne, whose 1573 work A Hundreth sundrie Flowres anticipated English examples of this poetic format. The line "Happy ye leaves when as those lilly hands" opens a work in this format written to correspond with the readings prescribed by the Book of Common Pr
  Part 3 (ans: William Shakespeare):
    According to Winters, the only impressive sonnet by this author was the one that begins "Thy glass will show / thee how thy beauties wear," which comes just before the ones addressed to the Rival Poet.

[BM6] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Edmund Wilson slammed an English translation of this work by attributing to it "a lack of common sense" and the translator's desire to "torture both the reader and himself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eugene Onegin ("ohn-YAY-ghin") [or Yevgeniy Onegin]):
    Name this novel written in a form of iambic tetrameter that alternates masculine and feminine rhymes, known as its title character's "stanza." Its title character incites a duel when he attends Tatyana's name day celebration.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov]):
    This writer earned Wilson's ire for his extremely literal translation of Eugene Onegin, which he accompanied with an analysis of Russian and English verse called Notes on Prosody ("PRAH-zuh-dee").
  Part 3 (ans: elision):
    In Notes on Prosody, Nabokov writes that the beauty of this device in English is "the delicate sensation of something being physically preserved by the voice" and finds that it is absent in Russian. Robert Bridges explains syllabic variation between lines in Paradise Lost with this device in Milton'

[BM7] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Reading this philosopher inspired a certain poet's fluid use of a term that generally corresponds to the idea that all creatures in the universe dynamically "self", or act out their identity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Duns Scotus):
    Identify this philosopher who inspired the notion of inscape. A poem about this philosopher's "Oxford" calls him he "who of all men most sways my spirits to peace" and concludes that he "fired France for Mary without spot."
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This poet used the words inscape and instress in his private journals, and was a lifelong friend of Robert Bridges. He is best known for employing sprung rhythm in poems like "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty."
  Part 3 (ans: "Carrion Comfort"):
    A late set of poems by Hopkins are known collectively as the "terrible sonnets" for their shared themes of desolation. This terrible sonnet closes with its speaker declaring "That night, that year / Of now done darkness I wretch lay wrestling with (my God!) my God."

[BM8] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem is based on the author's priestly services to a Mr. Spencer who lived in Liverpool. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Felix Randal"):
    Name this Petrarchan sonnet in which a "big-boned and hardy-handsome" farrier acquires "some fatal four disorders" and dies.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This Jesuit poet of "Felix Randal" also penned "Pied Beauty" and "The Windhover."
  Part 3 (ans: Digby Mackworth Dolben):
    Robert Bernard Martin's Hopkins biography A Very Private Life claims that meeting and falling in love with this poet on this man's seventeenth birthday was the defining event of Hopkins's life. His posthumous collection Poems was published when his cousin Robert Bridges became Poet Laureate.
