=== STOCK CLUES: Britten ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 92 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 36 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten [or Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten] (The author is W. H. Auden.)
  - This composer befriended an author while the two worked on Alberto Cavalcanti's films for the GPO Film Unit. [PWR]
  - A woman on the subway replaces Matt Dillon's character as a cellist performing a piece by this composer in Yorgos Lanthimos's short Nimic. [PWR]
  - This composer's so-called "corpses" included Blow-Up star David Hemmings, to whom this composer never spoke again after Hemmings's voice broke as a boy soprano.
  - Music from an opera by this composer is featured throughout Claire (*) Denis's  film Beau Travail , because they are based on the same novel. [PWR]
  - In a 2012 film, a performance of an opera by this composer is interrupted by a hurricane.
  - This composer's style inspired Alexandre Desplat's  score for Moonrise Kingdom, which was itself inspired by Wes Anderson's childhood performance in his opera Noye's Fludde .
  - For 10 points, an educational film commission resulted in what composer's Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten [Edward Benjamin Britten]
  - This composer's second string quartet ends with the second violin reprising the dotted "Chacony" theme as the other instruments play triple-stopped C major chords.
  - This composer wrote passages of rapidly alternating right- and left-hand pizzicato in the "Scherzo-Pizzicato" movement of his Cello Sonata.
  - This composer used a theme from John Dowland's "Flow my tears" as the basis for his Lachrymae for viola and orchestra, and he wrote his Cello Symphony and three solo cello suites for Mstislav (MIS-tee-slav) Rostropovich.
  - A "Boisterous Bourree" is followed by a "Playful Pizzicato" in this composer's Simple Symphony.
  - This composer featured each of the string instruments in turn during Variations E through H of a piece based on Henry Purcell's Rondeau from Abdelazer.
  - For 10 points, name this English composer of The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: gamelan [or gambelan; prompt on Indonesian or Javanese music] (the first line quote is from Debussy, the Godowsky piece is his Java Suite, and the Britten ballet is The Prince of the Pagodas)
  - A composer wrote that this musical style "makes our tonic and dominant seem like empty phantoms for the use of unwise infants." John Cranko choreographed a ballet inspired by this musical style that was originally titled The Green Serpent and features a quartet of flying frogs. [PWR]
  - A piano movement imitating this style uses the ascending motif "G-sharp, C-sharp, D-sharp" and is marked presque sans nuance. [PWR]
  - This musical style inspired a piano suite by Leopold (*) Godowsky, as well as a Benjamin Britten ballet in which Belle Rose is blindfolded and dances with the title prince, who first appears as a salamander. [PWR]
  - A rhapsody imitating this style by Bourgault-Ducoudray was performed at the (*) 1889 Exposition Universelle. [PWR]
  - That piece inspired a piano movement in this style that is followed by "Evening in Granada" and "Gardens in the Rain" in the Estampes suite by Debussy.
  - For 10 points, name this Asian musical style based on pitched metal percussion. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: music education [or music pedagogy; accept music appreciation; accept descriptions of teaching music or learning music or learning to how play a musical instrument; accept descriptions of learning how to play specific instruments such as the violin; prompt on Young People's Concerts or descriptions of concerts for kids or younger audiences but that do not imply they are for an educational purpose; prompt on Suzuki method by asking "what is the purpose of the Suzuki method?"] (Duncan Lamont's suite is an alternative to Britten's Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.)
  - Note to moderator: Read answerline carefully.
  - Description acceptable.
  - Duncan Lamont wrote a suite for jazz orchestra for this purpose as an alternative to a prior classical piece meant for this purpose.
  - "Farewell to Nationalism" and "The Latin American Spirit" were two of 53 episodes broadcasted on PBS for this purpose between 1958 and 1972.
  - Many conservatories offer graduate degrees in a system for this purpose first called the "mother-tongue approach," which is based on human language acquisition.
  - In a piece written for this purpose, each instrument plays a variation on the Rondeau from Purcell's Abdelazer Suite.
  - Ear training and memorization are emphasized in a 10-volume series for this purpose by Shinichi Suzuki, which starts with variations on "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star." For 10 points, orchestras perform family and Young People's Concerts for what purpose? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten [or Edward Benjamin Britten]
  - This composer used two staves for one cello to accompany itself in his third cello suite, which ends with the Russian Kontakion hymn.
  - A namesake 12-tone theme ascends during Act 1 and descends during Act 2 in a chamber opera by this composer in which a boy sings a trancelike aria on the word "Malo." He's not Nielsen, but this composer turned his youthful piano pieces into his alliterative Simple Symphony for string orchestra.
  - This composer wrote a Serenade for Tenor, Horn, and Strings for his partner Peter Pears , for whom he also wrote the aria "Strange Meeting." This composer excerpted his pieces "Dawn," "Sunday Morning," "Moonlight," and "Storm" as a set of "sea" interludes from an opera about a disgraced fisherman.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of the War Requiem and Peter Grimes. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten
  - Every scene of an opera by this composer begins with a variation on its twelve-tone theme which begins A, D, B, E; that opera also includes an aria based on multiple translations of the Latin word "malo." Tarquinius rapes Collatinus's wife in a chamber opera by this composer which he followed with a comic opera whose male protagonist is declared May Queen. [PWR]
  - The (*) Rape of Lucretia was written by this composer, many of whose tenor roles were premiered by his partner Peter Pears.
  - The aria "Now the Great Bear and Pleiades" and Four Sea Interludes are included in an opera by this composer about a fisherman who drowns himself after the death of his apprentice.
  - For 10 points, name this British composer of Peter Grimes. [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten [or Edward Benjamin Britten]
  - This composer discouraged sopranos from singing his Rimbaud -inspired song cycle Les Illuminations  because a frequent collaborator had a lower vocal range.
  - This composer wrote a piece for that collaborator in which a Prologue and Epilogue for solo horn bookend settings of poets such as Blake and Tennyson.
  - This composer was one of the cofounders of the Aldeburgh  Festival.
  - An F sharp-C tritone motif recurs in a piece by this composer of a Serenade for Tenor, Horn, and Strings for his longtime partner, Peter Pears .
  - Pears sang the tenor solo "What passing bells" for the premiere of a piece by this composer that sets poems by Wilfred Owen; that piece is his War Requiem.
  - For 10 points, name this British composer who wrote Peter Grimes and The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gregorian chant [accept plainchant or plainsong] (The unnamed Arvo Part piece is Cantus in Memoriam Benjamin Britten.)
  - An ensemble that specializes in this genre of music was featured as Joan in Richard Einhorn's Voices of Light. [PWR]
  - This genre inspired an elegaic canon based entirely on an A minor scale by Arvo Part, which he wrote after he spent "years of silence" immersing himself mainly in this genre. [PWR]
  - Dom Gueranger  founded a workshop at Solesmes  that publishes editions of music in this genre with added rhythmic markings.
  - The (*) ambitus and finalis differ across music in this genre, which incorporates the punctum and the virga on a four-line staff.
  - Music in this genre is embellished in organum, in which a second voice moves parallel to the vox principalis, whose melody is used as the cantus firmus in many masses.
  - For 10 points, name this medieval monophonic form of religious song often misattributed to a 6th-century pope. [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten [or Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten]
  - This composer set the poem "A Tragic Story" as part of a song collection that was originally titled Twelve Songs for Schools and was renamed Friday Afternoons.
  - Toward the end of the penultimate movement of another work, this composer used a stretto effect as the choir sings "Deo Gracias" in quick and overlapping succession; that piece by this composer opens with the procession "Hodie Christus natus est" and was originally scored for SSA children's choir and harp.
  - This composer wrote a piece that makes heavy use of the C-F-sharp tritone and features chorus, boys' choir, organ, and two orchestras; that piece was written for the consecration of the rebuilt Coventry Cathedral and includes settings of poems by Wilfred Owen.
  - For 10 points, name this English composer of A Ceremony of Carols and the War Requiem as well as the opera Peter Grimes. [GIVE]

[T10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten
  - In one opera by this composer, an apothecary leads the singing of a round during a fierce storm, which is interrupted by a woman bringing a child from a workhouse.
  - This composer parodied the philtre motif from Tristan and Isolde when a character in a different opera drinks a glass of spiked lemonade.
  - Later in that opera, a crushed wreath of white flowers is found in a well, and that opera ends with the title greengrocer treating some children to fruit.
  - The death of the silent John in an opera from which this composer excerpted four Sea Interludes prompts its protagonist to leave Ellen Orford and sink his own boat.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of operas such as Albert Herring and Peter Grimes. [GIVE]

[T11] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten [the unnamed work in the first line is The Turn of the Screw]
  - The main theme in one chamber opera by this composer divides into equivalent tetrachords, each being a segment of the circle of fifths starting with D-A-E-B. [PWR]
  - In one piece by this composer, the line "sacrifice and prayers we offer thee, Lord" is paralleled with "half the seed of Europe." In that work, this composer used a tritone motif from C to F-sharp throughout the work as the tenor addresses another person with the words "strange friend", in a setting of (*) "Strange Meeting" by Wilfred Owen. [PWR]
  - A work by this composer consists of variations based on a theme taken from the Abdelazer Suite of Henry Purcell played by different instrumental families.
  - For 10 points, name this English composer of the War Requiem and The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T12] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten [accept Edward BenjaminBritten, Baron Britten]
  - Deutsche Grammophone-winner Mirga Grazinyte-Tyla  conducted a 2020 live recording of an orchestral piece by this non-Polish composer that includes a "dance of death" motif in its Dies Irae second movement.
  - Julian Bream edited the guitar part for this composer's setting of Arthur Waley translations, his Songs from the Chinese. [PWR]
  - This composer was commissioned by the Japanese government to write a piece for the 2600-year anniversary of the Mikado, resulting in his (*) Sinfonia da Requiem. [PWR]
  - This composer used a C-F-sharp tritone motif in a piece that concludes with an eight part choral canon beginning "in paradisum deducant." That piece by this composer was commissioned for the new Coventry Cathedral and set Latin text alongside poems like "Strange Meeting." For 10 points, name this English composer who used Wilfred Owen poems in his War Requiem. [GIVE]

[T13] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten (The operas are Noye's Fludde and The Turn of the Screw.)
  - This composer depicted drops of rain by striking mugs with a wooden spoon in an opera inspired by a medieval mystery play.
  - Another opera by this composer opens each of its 16 scenes with a variation on a serial 12-note theme named for the title object.
  - In an opera by this composer, horns play in thirds under a syncopated woodwind rhythm in the "Sunday Morning" section.
  - That opera by this composer contains an "Embroidery Aria" in which Ellen recognizes a jersey she knitted for John.
  - The title fisherman is blamed for the deaths of his two apprentices in an opera by this composer that includes four Sea Interludes.
  - This composer adapted Purcell's Abdelazer into a pedagogical work.
  - For 10 points, name this English composer of Peter Grimes and The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten
  - This composer wrote a chamber opera in which a twelve-note theme played by a piano is transformed and heard again between each of the sixteen scenes.
  - He wrote an opera in which an ominous passacaglia in Act II plays while a non-speaking boy is led to a hut.
  - A schoolteacher in that opera laments the "clue whose meaning we avoid" in her "Embroidery Aria" after Balstrode shows her a bloodied jersey from John, a young boy who fell and died while descending a cliff.
  - The composer's partner, Peter Pears (peers), premiered the lead role in an opera that features the Four Sea Interludes and depicts a fisherman who drowns himself after he is blamed for the deaths of his apprentices.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of The Turn of the Screw and Peter Grimes. [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten
  - In one of this composer's operas, a solo horn repeats a fanfare-like melody that is later whistled by the title character as he walks to a pub: "To try a taste of certain things / The Prayer Book catalogues among its sins." That character from that opera by this composer is mourned in a threnody by nine characters who presume him dead after the orange-blossom crown he received as the King of (*) May is found crushed in a road.
  - In another opera by this composer, a chorus sings that the title character is "at his exercise" before Balstrode and Swallow go to his hut.
  - That protagonist sings "What harbor shelters peace" as Ellen Orford encourages him to return home, but he sails out to sea to kill himself.
  - For 10 points, name this British composer of Albert Herring and Peter Grimes. [GIVE]

[T16] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten
  - One of this composer's operas ends with the Latin mnemonic tune "Malo" being sung in the manner of a requiem.
  - In another of his operas, townspeople sing a threnody for the title character upon seeing a crushed wreath and Lady Billows organizes the May Day festival.
  - A boat is intentionally sunk at the end of, and two euphemistically-labeled "nieces" and the schoolmistress Ellen appear in, this composer's opera about a fisherman who abuses his apprentices, which includes the separately-published Four Sea Interludes.
  - His most famous operatic character, a stammering sailor, murders his master-at-arms Claggart.
  - For 10 points, name this English composer of Albert Herring, Peter Grimes, and Billy Budd. [GIVE]

[T17] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten
  - One character in a work by this composer repeats the line "Oh messmates take me up, for I'm sinking with the tide" after single-handedly sinking the Turkish Galilee.
  - He's not Dmitri Shostakovich, but one movement of another of his choral works is accompanied by repeated transpositions of the DSCH motif, which is sung to the text "For the silly fellow is against me".
  - That work also features the soprano solo "For I Will Consider My Cat Jeoffrey", and is a setting of the poetry of Christopher Smart.
  - Besides The Golden Vanity and Rejoice in the Lamb, this man composed a work for treble choir which includes movements like "Adam lay i-bounden" and "Balulalow", and whose C-flat major harp interlude quotes the opening processional, "Hodie Christus." This composer of A Ceremony of Carols interpolated such poems as "Futility" and "Strange Meeting" into a Mass in another work.
  - For 10 points, name this composer who set some poems by Wilfred Owen in his War Requiem. [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Benjamin Britten
  - In one opera by him, a character who sings "On the paths, in the woods, on the banks, by the walls, I wait" is often double-cast with the narrator, whose opening recitative begins "It is a curious story." Another one of this composer's protagonists asks "Who can turn skies back and begin again?" in "Now the Great Bear and Pleiades".
  - One of this composer's characters sings "the ceremony of innocence is drowned" with Miss Jessel and haunts Miles and the Governess.
  - The title character of one of his operas is defended by Ellen Orford and commits suicide after his apprentice John falls off a cliff in a work that contains "Four Sea Interludes." For 10 points, name this English composer of The Turn of the Screw and Peter Grimes. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an opera in this language, the veils of a clairvoyant are removed to reveal a lotus flower underneath. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English):
    Name this language of a Jungian-influenced opera in which the Ancients perform the four "Ritual Dances." In another opera in this language, a boy keeps singing the word "Malo" during a Latin lesson.
  Part 2 (ans: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart):
    The "Ritual Dances" appear in Michael Tippett's The Midsummer Marriage, which is a Jungian-influenced reworking of this composer's opera The Magic Flute.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Grimes(by Benjamin Britten)):
    Like the "Ritual Dances," this opera's "Sea Interludes" are often excerpted for concert performance, including one depicting a storm which precedes a scene in which Ned Keene leads villagers in singing a round.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece was commissioned alongside works like Michael Tippett's King Priam after the destruction of Coventry Cathedral in a bombing raid. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: War Requiem, Op. 66):
    Name this work whose premiere at the reconstructed cathedral launched a tradition of using a second conductor to manage the chamber orchestra. The text of this piece interweaves nine poems by Wilfred Owen.
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten [or Edward Benjamin Britten]):
    This English composer of the War Requiem also collected a set of Four Sea Interludes from his opera Peter Grimes.
  Part 3 (ans: boys' choir [accept children's choir or treble choir; accept chorus in place of "choir"; prompt on choir or chorus; reject "male choir" or "male chorus"]):
    In the War Requiem, this kind of ensemble performs from offstage accompanied by a portable organ. Britten's Missa brevis is scored for this ensemble and organ.

[B3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jacob Collier's a cappella performance of one of these songs uses four chords to transition from E major to G half-sharp major. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christmas carol):
    Name this type of song. Jesus's birth amid "snow on snow" is described in one of these songs, "In the Bleak Midwinter," which was adapted by Gustav Holst.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Darke):
    Collier chose this other English composer's setting of "In the Bleak Midwinter." This organist, who wrote Anglican church music, worked for 50 years at St Michael, Cornhill.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin Britten (the opera is The Turn of the Screw)):
    Collier has cited inspiration from the twelve-tone theme that first appears in an opera by this composer during a coach ride to a country house. This composer also wrote A Ceremony of Carols.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This 1978 piece was originally written for violin and piano, but has since been adapted for many other string and woodwind instruments. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spiegel im Spiegel):
    Name this piece in which the piano arpeggiates diatonic triads in F major in 6/4 time, while the violin plays F-major scales. It exemplifies its composer's "tintinnabular" style.
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten [or Edward Benjamin Britten]):
    Another piece that Arvo Part ("pairt") wrote in his trademark tintinnabular style is his Cantus in Memoriam of this English composer of Peter Grimes and The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: Los Angeles, California [accept Symphony No. 4, "Los Angeles"; accept Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra]):
    Part's only symphony in the tintinnabular style is titled for this American city. It was premiered in this city by Esa-Pekka Salonen ("AY-sah-payk-kah SAH-loh-nane"), who directed its Philharmonic Orchestra from 1992 to 2009.

[B5] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 13th-century Old Galician collection of these pieces dedicated to the Virgin Mary is unusually attributed to the King of Castile, Alfonso X ("the tenth"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: canticles [or cantigas; accept Canticle of the Sun or Cantigas de Santa Maria or Canticles of St. Mary]):
    The Magnificat hymn is what kind of little religious song not taken from Psalms? In 1224, St. Francis praised "Brother Fire" in one that inspired a cello work by Sofia Gubaidulina ("goo-bye-DOO-lin-uh") titled for one "of the Sun."
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    This composer's five Canticles span his late career. He created the semi-operatic genre of "church parable" in The Burning Fiery Furnace, The Prodigal Son, and Curlew River, based on Japanese noh, with librettist William Plomer.
  Part 3 (ans: Ecole Niedermeyer de Paris [or Niedermeyer School; accept Louis Niedermeyer]):
    Faure's young short choral work Cantique de Jean Racine won first prize at this church-music boarding school where Saint-Saens taught Andre Messager. This school's Swiss namesake took over the defunct Ecole Choron after ending his collaboration with Rossini to revive Renaissance music in Paris.

[B6] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After gouging and shaping, one type of these objects is wrapped with thread around a 47-millimeter staple. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: reeds [accept single or double reeds; accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, specific answers such as oboe reeds or saxophone reeds; prompt on mouthpieces]):
    Name these general objects, which are made by companies like Rico and Vandoren. These objects may be attached with a ligature.
  Part 2 (ans: oboe):
    Many players of this instrument make their own reeds for better control over their sound. This double-reed woodwind instrument usually provides the tuning note for the orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    This composer wrote Six Metamorphoses after Ovid for unaccompanied solo oboe, whose movements are named after mythological figures. This composer also wrote a Phantasy for oboe and string trio.

[B7] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two answers required. One of these two men premiered the roles of Robert Devereux in Gloriana and King Nebuchadnezzar in The Burning Fiery Furnace, two operas written by the other. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin Britten AND Peter Pears [accept in either order; accept Edward Benjamin Britten in place of "Benjamin Britten"; accept Peter Neville Luard Pears in place of "Peter Pears"] (They founded the Aldeburgh Festival.)):
    Name these two men who co-founded a festival that takes place in the Snape Maltings Concert Hall. One of them premiered many tenor roles in operas composed by the other, often with the soprano Joan Cross.
  Part 2 (ans:  Peter Grimes):
    Pears premiered the role of the title fisherman in this Britten opera, which is named after a section of George Crabbe's poem The Borough. Four Sea Interludes is a suite of orchestral excerpts from this opera.
  Part 3 (ans:  War Requiem):
    Pears performed with Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau ("fisher-DEE-scow") in the premiere of this Britten vocal work based on a C-F-sharp tritone. Ten days before this work's 1962 premiere, Heather Harper replaced Galina Vishnevskaya as the solo soprano.

[B8] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about W. H. Auden at the opera house, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin Britten [or Edward Benjamin Britten, Baron Britten]):
    Auden's first full operatic libretto was for this English composer's operetta Paul Bunyan. This composer attempted more serious fare with his next opera, Peter Grimes.
  Part 2 (ans: The Rake's Progress):
    With his former lover Chester Kallman, Auden wrote the libretto for this Stravinsky opera, whose title character weds the bearded lady Baba the Turk and is tempted by the Devil, who is disguised as Nick Shadow.
  Part 3 (ans: The Bassarids [or Die Bassariden]):
    Auden and Kallman wrote two libretti for Hans Werner Henze ("HEN-tsuh"), one for Elegy for Young Lovers, and one for this opera, inspired by a Euripides ("yoo-RIP-ih-deez") play set in Thebes. It is broken up into four movements like a symphony.

[B9] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Like its composer's pieces Festina lente("fess-TEE-nah LEN-tay") and Arbos, this piece is structured as a mensuration canon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cantus in Memoriam Benjamin Britten):
    Name this piece for string orchestra that opens with three notes on the tubular bells before the strings enter to play descending A-minor scales in octaves at varying speeds.
  Part 2 (ans: Arvo Part ("pairt")):
    Cantus in Memoriam Benjamin Britten is by this Estonian composer, whose tintinnabuli("tin-tin-AB-yoo-lee") style is exhibited in his pieces Fur Alina("foor ah-LEE-nah") and Spiegel im spiegel("SHPEE-gull eem SHPEE-gull").
  Part 3 (ans: string quintet [prompt on quintet]):
    Another example of Part's tintinnabuli style is his piece Fratres I("FROT-raze 1"), a piece in this genre. Boccherini's ("bock-uh-REE-nee's") so-called "celebrated minuet" is from one of his more-than-a-hundred pieces in this chamber genre.

[B10] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An interlude named for this kind of event begins with a wild fortissimo (fort-EE-see-moh) melody on the notes "E-flat F-flat E-flat up to C-flat." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a storm [or thunderstorm]):
    Name this kind of event that occurs at the end of a certain opera's first act. Ned Keene calms a pub crowd by singing a round after a town outcast arrives during this kind of event.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Grimes):
    Ellen Orford brings an apprentice to the title character of this opera while a storm strikes the Borough. This opera ends with that title fisherman drowning himself on the advice of Captain Balstrode.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    Peter Grimes is an opera by this British composer of a War Requiem and The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. This composer's partner Peter Pears (peerz) played lead roles in many of his operas.

[B11] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the use of the D-S-C-H motif by people who weren't Shostakovich. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    Name this composer, who repeated the motif in the organ in "For I am under the same accusation with my Saviour" from their cantata Rejoice in the Lamb. This composer also wrote operas like Albert Herring and Peter Grimes.
  Part 2 (ans: Krzysztof Penderecki [pen-de-RET-ski]):
    This composer used the D-S-C-H motif in their Cadenza for Solo Violin, and used a transposition of it, together with the BACH motif, in the tone row of their St Luke Passion.
  Part 3 (ans: passacaglia [prompt on ground bass]):
    Ronald Stevenson wrote a giant piano work titled for this musical form based around the motif. The third movement of Shostakovich's Violin Concerto No. 1 is in this form, as is the fourth of Britten's Sea Interludes from Peter Grimes.

[B12] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Double bass arpeggios, followed by an unusual contrabassoon solo, open this composer's Piano Concerto for the Left Hand, dedicated to the one-armed pianist Paul Wittgenstein. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maurice Ravel [or Joseph Maurice Ravel]):
    Name this composer who used a constant snare drum ostinato in his piece Bolero.
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    This composer, whose Diversions for Piano Left Hand and Orchestra are also for Wittgenstein, adapted a rondeau from Purcell's Abdelazer for another of his pieces.
  Part 3 (ans: Erich Wolfgang Korngold):
    The movement "with fire and power" ends this Austrian composer's C-sharp major Piano Concerto for the Left Hand for Wittgenstein. He wrote the opera Die tote Stadt ("dee TOH-tuh SHTAHT") before fleeing to Hollywood to write film scores.

[B13] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Shostakovich wasn't the only operatic composer who set literary dreams to music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    Thisbe parodies the aria Il dolce suono in this composer's opera A Midsummer Night's Dream. This composer's other literature-inspired operas include The Turn of the Screw and Billy Budd.
  Part 2 (ans: Il sogno di Scipione [accept reasonable translations like Scipio's Dream; or The Dream of Scipio]):
    In this opera, the dreaming title character asks Constanza and Fortuna why he cannot hear the harmony of the spheres, to which Constanza replies with the aria Ciglio che al sol si gira. This Mozart opera was inspired by a book of Cicero's De re publica, and its libretto was written by Pietro Metastasio.

[B14] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A piece before this opera's first act was published separately with the title "Dawn" as part of the Four Sea Interludes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Grimes):
    Name this opera in which the death of the apprentice John at sea is represented by an eerie tuba solo. At its end, the title sailor is implied to have died by sinking his own ship, which Auntie dismisses as "one of these rumors."
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    Peter Grimes is an opera by this British composer of A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: mystery plays [or miracle plays; prompt on plays or drama; do not accept or prompt on "mummer's plays" or "morality plays"]):
    Britten's opera Noye's Fludde ("noise flood"), meant to be performed by young people and amateurs, is adapted from a cycle of these performances that originated in Chester. These performances were accompanied by antiphonal ("an-TIFF-uh-null") song, and many of them were created in the 16th century by the Wakefield Master.

[B15] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This aria opens with the words "Thy hand, Belinda," and features chromatic word painting on many of its key words. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "When I Am Laid In Earth" [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, "Dido's Lament"]):
    Name this aria from a seventeenth-century opera in which a character asks "Remember me, remember me, but ah! forget my fate."
  Part 2 (ans: Dido):
    This character sings that aria in a Henry Purcell opera named for her and Aeneas. That opera is heavily based on the Aeneid and its stories of this queen of Carthage.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    This twentieth-century composer extensively revised Dido and Aeneas, together with Imogen Holst, and is thus widely credited for popularising Purcell's operas with the public. His own operas include Billy Budd and Gloriana.

[B16] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A meme notes that the media says "She's the greatest" because Beyonce released one album every three years, while ignoring this composer even though he wrote over two hundred pieces for the lute. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dowland):
    Name this English renaissance composer best remembered for his songs for lute and voice like "Flow My Tears" and "In darkness let me dwell."
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    This much-later English composer used Dowland's work for his solo guitar piece Nocturnal after John Dowland. He also wrote the opera Peter Grimes and The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Grainger):
    This Australian composer was also a known fan of Dowland, as he arranged Dowlands' Now, O now I needs must part for piano. This man is best known for concert band music like his Lincolnshire Posey and Country Gardens.

[B17] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He wrote a theme in open fifths so that beginner violinists, who could only play four notes, could have the tune. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ralph Vaughan Williams):
    Name this composer of a Concerto Grosso for school string orchestra, also known for a Fantasia on Greensleeves.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Holst):
    This friend of Vaughan Williams included his own arrangement of Greensleeves in the movement 'Fantasia on the Dargason' from his second Suite in F for Military Band. He later arranged that movement in a suite written for a girls' school string orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: Simple Symphony [accept Op. 4 by Benjamin Britten]):
    This Britten composition for string orchestra includes movements called "Boisterous Bourree" and "Playful Pizzicato". It quotes familiar themes from the composer's childhood, including Barwick Green, which became the theme for The Archers.

[B18] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one opera by this man, the title character is elected May King because there are no virgins in town to be the May Queen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    Name this composer of Albert Herring and The Turn of the Screw, who also wrote A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Grimes):
    In this most famous Benjamin Britten opera, the title character is a small-town sailor who is thrown into disgrace and commits suicide after two of his apprentices die at sea.
  Part 3 (ans: The Little Sweep):
    This is the second part of Britten's Let's Make an Opera! series for children, framed by a story of children writing their own opera. In it, the rich Crome children smuggle the title character in a trunk to freedom.

[B19] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work intersperses traditional Latin texts with poems by Wilfred Owen sung by the tenor and baritone soloists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: War Requiem):
    Unified by the interval of a tritone between C and F sharp, name this work premiered for the consecration of the current Coventry Cathedral.
  Part 2 (ans: (Edward) Benjamin Britten):
    War Requiem is a work of this Suffolk-born composer of The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra, The Simple Symphonic and the operas Peter Grimes and The Turn of the Screw.
  Part 3 (ans: "Playful Pizzicato" [prompt on Pizzicato]):
    The second movement of Britten's Simple Symphony is this piece for strings that uses the same long-short-long-short-long-short-long rhythmic pattern as the The Archers theme tune.

[B20] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer worked with Australian playwright Meredith Oakes on an operatic adaptation of The Tempest that premiered in 2005. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Ades [ADD-iss]):
    Name this contemporary British composer, whose opera Powder Her Face contains a notorious musical depiction of fellatio. His other works include America: A Prophecy.
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten (the opera is The Turn of the Screw)):
    Powder Her Face is a chamber opera, a term that this other composer applied to his The Rape of Lucretia and his opera in which the words "the ceremony of innocence is drowned" are sung by a spirit haunting Miles and the Governess.
  Part 3 (ans: (Kingdom of) Spain (the film is by Luis Bunuel)):
    Ades's opera The Exterminating Angel adapts a film by a man from this European country. It is the setting for Georges Bizet's Carmen.

[B21] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character sings a list of masculine Latin nouns beginning "amnis, axis, caulis, collis, clunis" and a strange Benedicite (ben-eh-DEE-kih-tay) laced with homosexual innuendos. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miles):
    Name this opera character who also sings a rhyme beginning "Malo, malo, malo I would rather be, malo, malo in an apple tree."
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    Miles appears in The Turn of the Screw, a chamber opera by this 2oth-century English composer, whose large-scale operas include Billy Budd and Peter Grimes.
  Part 3 (ans: Gloriana):
    The Courtly Dances are frequently extracted for performance from this Britten opera about the relationship between Elizabeth I and the Earl of Essex.

[B22] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The tablature notation for this instrument uses script lowercase letters to indicate a note's position, and uses detached flags above the staff to indicate changes in the duration of notes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lute):
    Name this plucked, pear-shaped instrument that often has an angled neck, which is related to the mandolin, oud, and theorbo. Composers for this instrument include John Dowland, Denis Gaultier, and Silvius Leopold Weiss.
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    This modern English composer used reverse variation form in Nocturnal after John Dowland for guitarist Julian Bream, based on the melancholy lute song "Come, heavy sleep." He adapted Peter Grimes into Four Sea Interludes.
  Part 3 (ans: pavane [accept pavan, pavana, or other variants]):
    Dowland's "Flow my tears," which Britten used in Lachrymae, is this type of stately Italian dance in AABBCC form often paired with a faster triple-time galliard. Ravel and Faure wrote piano pieces that evoke this slow dance.

[B23] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character's final monologue is punctuated by an offstage chorus shouting his name, which leads him to frenziedly shout it himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Grimes [accept either]):
    Name this man who sings "to hell with all your mercy!" after reciting "The first one died, just died... the other slipped, and died... and the third will... 'Accidental circumstances'... Water will drink his sorrows."
  Part 2 (ans: (Edward) Benjamin Britten):
    Peter Grimes was written by this 20th-century English composer who also wrote War Requiem.
  Part 3 (ans: a semitone [or half-step; or minor second; prompt on "second"; do not accept just "tone" or "step"]):
    In that monologue, Britten has the tuba imitate a foghorn by playing two notes separated by this musical interval.

[B24] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera includes several variations on a tone row that begins with the notes A-D-B-E. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Turn of the Screw):
    Name this opera in which Miss Jessel and Peter Quint sing "The ceremony of innocence is drowned" before haunting The Governess, and the children Miles and Flora.
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    The Turn of the Screw is an opera by this English composer of the opera Peter Grimes and the War Requiem.
  Part 3 (ans: gamelan [prompt on "percussion", "drum ensemble", or any such answer]):
    In Britten's operatic version of Death in Venice, Tadzio is often accompanied by music inspired by this kind of musical ensemble. Britten also drew upon this kind of ensemble in a ballet about Belle Rose and a magical prince.

[B25] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece was commissioned for a documentary directed by Muir Mathieson featuring Malcolm Sargent conducting London Symphony Orchestra. For 10 points each
  Part 1 (ans: The Young Persons' Guide to the Orchestra):
    Give the name of this piece whose subtitle is "Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Purcell"
  Part 2 (ans: Abdelazar):
    The Young Persons' Guide to the Orchestra is based on the Rondeau from Purcell's incidental music to this Aphra Benn play
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    This composer of the War Requiem and Peter Grimes wrote The Young Persons' Guide to the Orchestra
