=== STOCK CLUES: Lygia Clark ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: A 2017 Met Breuer exhibition of a Brazilian artist with this given name titled "A Multitude of Forms" staged a piece in which a crowd walk together with their heads protruding from a huge white sheet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lygia ("LEE-zhuh") [accept Lygia Pape or Lygia Clark] (The Lygia Clark work is Bichos.)):
    Give this first name shared by the artist of Divisor and a different Brazilian artist who gave a title meaning "critters" to a set of hinged metal assemblies meant to be manipulated by viewers.
  Part 2 (ans: concrete [accept Concretism or Concretismo or Neoconcretismo; accept concrete poetry; prompt on shape poems or visual poems; anti-prompt on altar poetry]):
    Lygias Pape and Clark led an art movement that prefixes this word with "neo." Lygia Fagundes Telles and the de Campos brothers belonged to a literary school named for this word, which describes poems whose typographical form conveys meaning.
  Part 3 (ans: Mobius strip [or Mobius band; or Mobius loop]):
    Lygia Clark's work Walking consists of a paper with this shape that viewers cut lengthwise repeatedly until it is too thin to cut. This non-orientable shape is constructed by giving the paper a half-twist and taping its ends.

[B2] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In her essay "Nostalgia of the Body," this artist set forth the principles of her Neo-Concretist movement, which saw the work of art not as a "machine" or "object," but rather as an "almost-body." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lygia Clark):
    Name this Brazilian artist of a series of hinged aluminum sculptures that can be folded, turned, and oriented in various combinations, called Bichos. She also proposed running scissors along a Mobius strip for her Trailings.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Indiana):
    Numbers 1-0 is a set of painted aluminum sculptures, each shaped like a different numerical digit, by this artist. He is more famous for his LOVE sculptures, which stack the word's four letters, with a slanted "O" in a square.
  Part 3 (ans: the Moon):
    A tiny aluminum figurine called Fallen Astronaut, created by Paul Van Hoeydonck, is located on the surface of this location. Along with a commemorative plaque, it was left on this location by the Apollo 15 crew.
