=== STOCK CLUES: Doris Lessing ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 39 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Gotthold Lessing [or Gotthold Ephraim Lessing] (The second line refers to Hamburg Dramaturgy. Doris Lessing is the other author in the giveaway.)
  - After the protagonist of one of this author's plays dies, a prince of Guastalla  banishes his evil chamberlain Marinelli due to his nefarious schemes. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a collection of essays on drama that coined the term "dramaturgy." Odoardo kills his daughter to save her from the prince Hettore Gonzaga at the end of one of this author's bourgeois tragedies, a genre he pioneered in his country. [PWR]
  - At the end of a play by this author, it is learned that a young (*) Templar is the sibling of Recha , the adopted daughter of the protagonist. [PWR]
  - After Werther's suicide in The Sorrows of Young Werther, a copy of this author's play Emilia Galotti is found laying open in his room.
  - This author used his friend Moses Mendelssohn as the basis for a character who delivers the "Ring Parable" when asked about the "true religion" by Saladin.
  - For 10 points, name this German playwright of Nathan the Wise, who shares his surname with the Rhodesian-British author of The Golden Notebook. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Doris Lessing
  - A semi-autobiographical character created by this author dies on a Scottish island in the dystopian finale to a 5-book series. [PWR]
  - One character created by this author has an affair with a psychiatrist named Paul until he moves with his wife to Nigeria. [PWR]
  - Another novel by this author of The Four Gated City takes its title from The Waste Land and is told as a flashback after Moses kills his white employer, Mary (*) Turner, for money. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, the protagonist lives off money earned for her book Frontiers of War.
  - This author of the series Children of Violence wrote a novel with a frame story entitled Free Women, and focuses on the "red," "black," "blue," and "yellow" notebooks of Anna Wulf.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Grass is Singing and The Golden Notebook. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Doris Lessing
  - The New York Times wrote that this author's message matched Auden's "we must love one another or die" in a review of one of her novels. [PWR]
  - That novel chronicles the lives of Gerald, who adopts a horde of feral children, and Emily, who has a beloved cat-like dog. [PWR]
  - That novel by this author was partially based on the author's time living with the teenager Jenny Dicki. [PWR]
  - In another novel, this author wrote about the Communist Centre Union, led by (*) Alice Mellings, which sets off a car-bomb that kills one of its own members. [PWR]
  - The narrator of one of this author's novels recounts the end of her love affair in a yellow one of the title objects, and excerpts from that narrator's writings are interspersed among the frame story "Free Women." For 10 points, name this British-Zimbabwean author of Memoirs of a Survivor, The Good Terrorist, and a novel about Anna Wulf, The Golden Notebook. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lessing (accept Doris Lessing or Gotthold Ephraim Lessing)
  - In a play by an author with this surname, Major von Tellheim is tortured by the title woman for rejecting her after she finds him with her old engagement ring. [PWR]
  - In a novel by another author with this surname, the protagonist's neighbor Slatter (+) is disgusted to see her servant Moses dressing her, shortly before Moses kills her. [PWR]
  - Marianelli attempts to delay the marriage between the title character and count Appiani on the order of (*) Hettore Gonzaga in play by an author with this surname, which he shares with an author who detailed the search for the title object in a novel narrated from yellow, blue, red, and black journals about the writer Anna Krull. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author of Emilia Galotti and the author of The Grass is Singing as well as The Golden Notebook. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Doris Lessing
  - In one of this author's books, British women style their hair in either ringlets or spit curls to show support for the opposing sides of the Turkish-Serbian War.
  - One of the title characters of that book meets the other at a cricket match, but marries a doctor and eventually opens a chain of Montessori schools.
  - This novelist, who charted the lives of her parents had they never married in Alfred and Emily, served as a sort of surrogate mother to a teenaged Jenny Diski after rescuing her from a toxic home.
  - She wrote a novel in which Tommy's failed suicide attempt leaves him blind and causes him to turn to the socialist causes embraced by his mother Molly.
  - The protagonist of that novel writes a diary focusing on her dreams and therapy, a novel titled Free Women, and a memoir of her experience in Southern Rhodesia.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the life and writings of Anna Wulf in The Golden Notebook. [GIVE]

[T6] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Doris Lessing
  - One of this author's protagonists feels that Dickens, Tolstoy, Hugo, and Dostoevsky wrote for naught, when she looks out a window and sees two policemen leading a group of twenty prisoners, handcuffed together.
  - In a novel by this author, Willi reads from Stalin while Jimmy watches an ant-eater battle with an ant, during a hunt for pigeons to put in Mrs.
  - Boothby's pie, at the Mashopi hotel.
  - Douglas Knowell is disastrously married to Martha Quest in this author's Children of Violence series.
  - The protagonist of her most famous novel keeps four color-coded journals, which she hopes to tie together into the title book; that protagonist is Anna Wulf.
  - For 10 points, this Rhodesian-British author, known for writing feminist science fiction and The Golden Notebook. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing; or Doris May Tayler]
  - In a novel by this author, Charlie Slatter eventually takes over the central farm after sending Tony Marston to manage it. [PWR]
  - A passage in Eliot's "The Waste Land" that describes events "in this decayed hole among the mountains" titles a novel by this author in which Mary Turner is murdered by her servant Moses.
  - The emissary Johor appears in a series by this author that includes the novels The Sirian Experiments and Shikasta. [PWR]
  - This author of The (*) Grass is Singing created a character who writes the novel Frontiers of War about her experiences in Rhodesia.
  - In another work by this author, a conventional narrative titled "The Free Woman" is interspersed with segments from Anna Wulf's yellow, red, blue, and black journals.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Canopus in Argos series and The Golden Notebook. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Dambudzo Marechera, an author from this country, depicted his mistreatment and marginality both in Oxford and in this country in The House of Hunger. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zimbabwe [or Republic of Zimbabwe or Nyika yeZimbabwe or Ilizwe leZimbabwe; accept Rhodesia, Southern Rhodesia, Republic of Rhodesia, or Rodizha; reject "Northern Rhodesia"]):
    Name this home country of Tsitsi Dangarembga, who set her novels This Mournable Body and Nervous Conditions here.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing; or Doris May Tayler]):
    This author described reading The House of Hunger as "like overhearing a scream." This British-Zimbabwean author wrote the Children of Violence novel sequence and The Golden Notebook.
  Part 3 (ans: NoViolet Bulawayo [or Elizabeth Zandile Tshele] (The debut novel is We Need New Names.)):
    This author depicted Darling's childhood in Zimbabwe in her debut novel, whose first chapter started as the short story "Hitting Budapest." This author's second novel, Glory, was inspired by George Orwell's Animal Farm.

[B2] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this section, the protagonist exchanges opening line suggestions with her boarder Saul Green, revealing that the sentence that opened the first Free Women section was actually fictional. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the golden notebook [accept equivalents like the title notebook of The Golden Notebook; prompt on the last notebook or similar answers]):
    Name or describe this section, which ends a novel whose other sections detail the protagonist's year in the British Communist Party and the plot of her novel Frontiers of War.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing; or Doris May Tayler]):
    This British-Zimbabwean author wrote the autobiographically-inspired The Golden Notebook.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinemann [accept Margot Heinemann; accept William Heinemann Ltd.]):
    Another major novel of the 1960s by a British Communist Party member was The Adventurers by an author with the first name Margot and this last name. A British company of this name published the first UK edition of Achebe's Things Fall Apart.

[B3] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literature set in Zimbabwe, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Stranger [or The Outsider or L'Etranger]):
    Tsitsi Dangarembga's Nervous Conditions opens 'I was not sorry when my brother died'. This echoes the statement 'Mother died today', which famously opens this Albert Camus ('al-BAIR ca-MOO') novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing):
    This author set the semi-autobiographical Children of Violence series in a fictional country based on Southern Rhodesia. Another novel by this author contains a series of colour-coded diaries by the protagonist, Anna Wulf.
  Part 3 (ans: NoViolet Bulawayo [or Elizabeth Zandile Tshele]):
    This Zimbabwean author won the 2011 Caine Prize for the short story "Hitting Budapest". That story became the first chapter of this author's novel We Need New Names, which follows a group of children whose homes have been destroyed by Mugabe's military police.

[B4] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's experience of living in Zimbabwe inspired a series of five semi-autobiographical novels that depict the life of Martha Quest in the fictional country of Zambezia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing or Doris May Tayler]):
    Name this author of Children of Violence. This British-Zimbabwean author also created the character of Anna Wulf, who records her life in a series of black, red, yellow, and blue notebooks.
  Part 2 (ans: terrorist [accept The Good Terrorist; accept The True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist]):
    Alice turns her house into a headquarters for a group of these people in a Lessing novel titled for a "good" one of them. South African author Breyten Breytenbach depicted his imprisonment in a memoir titled for an "albino" person of this kind.
  Part 3 (ans: science fiction [or sci-fi; accept soft sci-fi; prompt on speculative fiction or similar]):
    Lessing also wrote the five-book series Canopus in Argos, which has been described as belonging to the "soft" category of this genre because it emphasizes culture and society rather than futuristic technology.

[B5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, the 10-year-old girl Darling moves from this country to Detroit, which she calls "Destroyedmichygen" ("destroyed-michigan"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zimbabwe [or Southern Rhodesia]):
    Name this setting of NoViolet Bulawayo's novel We Need New Names. An author who lived in this country before moving to England wrote a novel in which Anna Wulf records her life in four differently-colored journals.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Taylor]):
    The aforementioned novel, The Golden Notebook, is by this British-Zimbabwean author of The Grass is Singing.
  Part 3 (ans: Nervous Conditions):
    In 2020, Zimbabwean author Tsitsi Dangarembga ("DAHN-ga-REM-gah") wrote the second-person novel This Mournable Body, a sequel to this novel about Tambu, who is only able to go to school after her brother's death.

[B6] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Excerpts from these works intersperse a frame story called Free Women in the novel in which they appear. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna's notebooks [or Anna Wulf's notebooks; or notebooks from The Golden Notebook; prompt on notebooks by asking "please also give the novel in which they appear or their fictional author"; accept journals, diaries, memoirs, logs, or records in place of "notebooks"]):
    Name this set of fictional works, the "black" one of which details their author's time in Africa. Their author's alter ego Ella is the focus of the "yellow" one, whereas the "red" one describes their author's communist ideals.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing):
    In this Iranian-born British author's novel The Golden Notebook, Anna Wulf attempts to combine her diaries into the title volume. This author also wrote the Canopus in Argos science fiction series.
  Part 3 (ans: the Rubaiyat [or Ruba'iyat]):
    Lessing was a staunch defender of her friend and mentor Idries Shah, who came under fire for publishing an allegedly fake English translation of this collection of Farsi quatrains by Omar Khayyam.

[B7] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the narrator's parents are coerced into having a Christian wedding, which the narrator refuses to attend. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nervous Conditions):
    Name this novel. In this novel, a character becomes bulimic and repeatedly yells 'No, I am not a good girl,' while her cousin is conflicted about attending the Sacred Heart convent school.
  Part 2 (ans: Frantz Fanon):
    Nervous Conditions, the first novel published in English by a black Zimbabwean woman, is named for a line in Jean-Paul Sartre's introduction to The Wretched of the Earth, a work by this Martinican psychiatrist and theorist.
  Part 3 (ans: Doris Lessing):
    This author's character, Anna Wulf, writes about her experiences in then-Rhodesia during WWII in one of her four 'notebooks'. This author of The Golden Notebook won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2007.

[B8] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A boy places a revolver under his sister's pillow in imitation of a lipstick ad he saw her looking at on the subway in this author's story "Mrs. Fortescue." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing; or Doris May Tayler]):
    Name this British author who wrote about Susan committing suicide by gas in a hotel room in "To Room Nineteen." This author drew on her early life in Southern Rhodesia for her story "The Old Chief Mshlanga."
  Part 2 (ans: "Through the Tunnel"):
    In this Lessing story, the boy Jerry concludes that "it was no longer of the least importance to go to the bay" after succeeding in his quest to swim under a rock formation.
  Part 3 (ans: aliens [or extraterrestrials; accept equivalents]):
    Beings of this sort deliver a warning about an earthquake in Lessing's story "Report on the Threatened City." Arthur C. Clarke's story "The Sentinel," which became his novel 2001: A Space Odyssey, is titled for an object that beings of this type placed on the moon.

[B9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One novel from this country tells the story of Tambu, who enters a missionary school after her brother dies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zimbabwe [or Rhodesia]):
    Name this country home to Tsitsi Dangarembga. Another novelist from this country, NoViolet Bulawayo, wrote about the adventures of a girl named Darling in We Need New Names.
  Part 2 (ans: Detroit [prompt on Grosse Pointe]):
    In We Need New Names, Darling immigrates to this American city. Jeffrey Eugenides wrote about a family of Greek immigrants to this city in Middlesex.
  Part 3 (ans: Doris Lessing):
    This British author set her first novel The Grass is Singing in Zimbabwe, where she lived for a time. This first Nobel Prize winner to attend Comic-Con wrote The Golden Notebook.

[B10] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Alice Mellings plays house mother to an "England-based entity" of the IRA in this author's satire The Good Terrorist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doris Lessing):
    Name this author, who chronicled the life of Martha Quest in Zimbabwe in her Children of Violence series. She wrote about Mary Turner's racism toward and murder by her servant Moses in The Grass is Singing.
  Part 2 (ans: The Golden Notebook):
    In this Lessing novel, the writer Anna Wulf divides her life into subjects recorded in black, red, yellow, and blue diaries; it is framed by her novel Free Women.
  Part 3 (ans: Tsitsi Dangarembga):
    This other Zimbabwean author wrote about the studious Tambu, who is able to go to missionary school after the death of her brother, in Nervous Conditions and The Book of Not.

[B11] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Its last novel is The Four-Gated City. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Children of Violence):
    Name this quintet of novels about the African-born Martha Quest. It traces Martha's journey from the fictional Zambesia to London after World War II.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing]):
    This winner of the 2007 Lit Nobel wrote The Children of Violence series, as well as the five-novel sci-fi series Canopus in Argos: Archives. Four diaries by Anna Wulf figure into this woman's novel The Golden Notebook.
  Part 3 (ans: terrorists [or The Good Terrorist]):
    An unemployed squatter named Alice becomes involved in the CCU in a Doris Lessing novel titled for "the good" one of these people. This occupation titles a John Updike novel about Jack Levy and Ahmad Mulloy.

[B12] 2014 CLEAR (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author describes the title woman's secret rendezvouses with the tree-pruner Tim as her husband undergoes medical procedures in Germany in "Mrs. Anderson's Longing". F10PE:
  Part 1 (ans: Miren Lourdes Onederra):
    Name this Basque author, who wrote about Teresa's midlife crisis centered on her lack of passion for her husband Andres and the failure of her affair with her long-time friend Luis in And the Serpent Said to the Woman.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing):
    In both "Mrs. Anderson's Longing" and And the Serpent Said to the Woman, Onederra quotes this author, from her novels Love, Again and The Marriage Between Zones Three, Four, and Five of the Canopus of Argos series.
  Part 3 (ans: Gorillas):
    Late in And the Serpent Said, Teresa begs Luis and Andres to take her to see these animals in the zoo, which Luis knows will make her cry. These animals were the subject of Diane Fossey's research "in the Mists".

[B13] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these contemporary female British authors, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doris Lessing):
    This 2007 Nobelist and anti-Apartheid activist wrote about Anna Wulf in The Golden Notebook.
  Part 2 (ans: A.S. Byatt [or Antonia Susan Duffy]):
    This sister of Margaret Drabble wrote about a Victorian naturalist in Angels and Insects and about Roland Mitchell and Maud Bailey's discovery of the relationship between two poets in Possession.
  Part 3 (ans: Jeanette Winterson):
    This woman wrote about a lesbian girl growing up in a Pentecostal community in her 1985 novel Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit. Her other works about fruit and lesbians include Sexing the Cherry.
