=== STOCK CLUES: The Good Terrorist ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author introduces himself as "the lean man in the green sweater; he is devout" in the poem "Threat of the Sick", written in this language. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Afrikaans):
    Name this language used by Breyten Breytenbach ("BRAY-tuhn BRAY-tuhn-bahck") to write the poetry collection The Iron Cow Must Sweat. "TheSixtiers" was a dissident literary movement of this language.
  Part 2 (ans: terrorist [or The Good Terrorist or Confessions of an Albino Terrorist]):
    Breytenbach wrote a memoir titled for the True Confessions of an Albino one of these people. Alice Mellings and her fellow squatters gradually turn into these people over the course of a novel titled for them.
  Part 3 (ans: prisons):
    In The True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist, Breytenbach related his stay in one of these locations. Nelson Mandela's time in one of these locations inspired Athol Fugard's The Island which features two inhabitants of one of these places rehearsing Antigone ("an-TIG-uh-nee").

[B2] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's experience of living in Zimbabwe inspired a series of five semi-autobiographical novels that depict the life of Martha Quest in the fictional country of Zambezia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing or Doris May Tayler]):
    Name this author of Children of Violence. This British-Zimbabwean author also created the character of Anna Wulf, who records her life in a series of black, red, yellow, and blue notebooks.
  Part 2 (ans: terrorist [accept The Good Terrorist; accept The True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist]):
    Alice turns her house into a headquarters for a group of these people in a Lessing novel titled for a "good" one of them. South African author Breyten Breytenbach depicted his imprisonment in a memoir titled for an "albino" person of this kind.
  Part 3 (ans: science fiction [or sci-fi; accept soft sci-fi; prompt on speculative fiction or similar]):
    Lessing also wrote the five-book series Canopus in Argos, which has been described as belonging to the "soft" category of this genre because it emphasizes culture and society rather than futuristic technology.

[B3] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Its last novel is The Four-Gated City. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Children of Violence):
    Name this quintet of novels about the African-born Martha Quest. It traces Martha's journey from the fictional Zambesia to London after World War II.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing]):
    This winner of the 2007 Lit Nobel wrote The Children of Violence series, as well as the five-novel sci-fi series Canopus in Argos: Archives. Four diaries by Anna Wulf figure into this woman's novel The Golden Notebook.
  Part 3 (ans: terrorists [or The Good Terrorist]):
    An unemployed squatter named Alice becomes involved in the CCU in a Doris Lessing novel titled for "the good" one of these people. This occupation titles a John Updike novel about Jack Levy and Ahmad Mulloy.
