=== STOCK CLUES: Gerrit Rietveld ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Giuseppe Momo was inspired by Renaissance architect Donato Bramante to design two overlapping instances of this type of structure for the Vatican Museums. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: spiral staircases [or spiral stairs; prompt on staircases or stairs]):
    Name this type of structure common in medieval castle towers. One of these structures in Santa Fe's Loretto Chapel, made of wood and glue, is called "miraculous" for lacking the central pole that these features usually wind around.
  Part 2 (ans: Jorn Utzon ("YUN OOT-sun")):
    A spiral staircase ascends to the body of a water tank in Svaneke ("SVEN-uh-kuh") designed by this Danish architect. He attempted to instill a feeling of "otherworldliness" with the 100-meter-wide stairs that lead to a building whose roof is a series of sail-like shells.
  Part 3 (ans: Gerrit Rietveld ("KHAIR-it REET-felt")):
    This designer added a black spiral staircase to his house for Truus Schroder to connect to a private room that was off-limits to visitors. This non-Japanese designer also used a spiral staircase in his half of the Van Gogh museum in Amsterdam.

[B2] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One house designed by this person has a so-called 'disappearing corner' and was constructed for a woman whose ideas on that house meant that she was given a co-designer credit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerrit Rietveld):
    Bart van der Leck told this designer to make a chair he had more colorful. This designer had that chair inscribed with the poem Der Aesthet by Christian Morgenstern.
  Part 2 (ans: the Netherlands [or Holland]):
    Gerrit Rietveld was from this country. He designed the Metz & Co building in the Hague, which is located in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Rembrandt "Rem" Koolhaas):
    This later Dutch designer and architect designed the Seattle Central Library and wrote the book Delirious New York, which praises the 'chance-like' nature of city living.
