=== STOCK CLUES: Aeschylus ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 34 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Bonus Eventus (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Aeschylus
  - This character asks Demeter to "make me worthy of thy mystic rites!" before another character chooses to pray to his own "newly minted" gods.
  - This character accuses another character of arguing that "life is not life" with his depiction of women giving birth in temples and having sex with their brothers. [PWR]
  - The poetic device lekythion was coined by this character as he uses the phrase "lost his little (*) oil flask" to interrupt another character whom he challenged to recite prologues from the latter's plays. [PWR]
  - Sophocles is given this man's chair in Hades after he defeats Euripides in a literary contest in Aristophanes' play The Frogs.
  - For 10 points, identify this real-life playwright of the Oresteia. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 OCTAVIAN (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Aeschylus and Euripides
  - TWO ANSWERS REQUIRED One of these two characters is handed a bag as they depart to give to 'Cleophon and to the Tax collectors, Myrmex and Nichomachus'. [PWR]
  - The other of these two characters asks mockingly why the other talks of Parnassus and Lycabettus, in response to criticism that it is their duty to 'conceal the rot'. [PWR]
  - A third character who might be expected to take part in a dispute between these two characters is reported to be happy to 'sit on the fence' but that he will challenge one of them 'for the sake of (*) tragedy' if they win. [PWR]
  - The choice of a deity between these two characters is made when they offer advice to a city that 'they'll save themselves when they consider the land of the enemy as their land and their land as that of the enemy' For 10 points name these two characters, whose metatheatrical contest judged by Dionysus has a central role in The Frogs. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: Aeschylus
  - In one of this author's works, a woman has a dream of two beautiful women who begin to fight before her son yokes them to his chariot.
  - That woman is told by her husband's shade to put on her finest clothes to greet her son after he returns from a defeat.
  - At the start of another of this author's works, a woman imagines herself tangled in a net and cries out that a house stinks of murder, but still enters while praying for revenge on her (*) captors.
  - This author's satyr play Proteus was likely part of a cycle in which a young woman sees a set of footprints that resemble her own and discovers a lock of hair on a tomb left by her brother.
  - That woman's mother lays out a purple carpet for Agamemnon before killing him, and her brother is acquitted by Athena after the Furies pursue him for killing his mother Clytemnestra.
  - For 10 points, name this Greek playwright of the Oresteia. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aeschylus
  - This playwright appeared as a character himself in a play put on half a century after his death, where he is praised as teaching his audiences to seek victory in battle.
  - Martin West and Mark Griffith have argued that one of this man's attributed works was in fact composed by his son, Euphorion, on the basis of metrical analysis.
  - Pericles was the choregos of one work that won the 1st prize at the City Dionysia that is unique for its contemporary situation, and surprising for eliciting sympathy in its audience for its titular characters, the Persians.
  - The invention of the jury trial is central to the Eumenides, the last part of, for 10 points, which man's Oresteia trilogy. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: Aeschylus
  - In one work by this author, the flight of a gadfly to the Nile is described by the chorus in a prayer to Zeus asking for protection from the lust of young men.
  - In another work by this author two characters disguise themselves as travellers from Phocis.
  - In addition to the The Suppliant Women and The Libation Bearers, this author wrote a play a purple carpet is laid out for the title character, who is murdered by Aegisthus and Clytemnestra as revenge for the sacrifice of Iphigenia.
  - For 10 points, name this Greek playwright, whose Agamemnon was the first play in his trilogy Oresteia. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Answer: Aeschylus
  - One character in one of this author's plays asks to speak with the master of a house instead of the mistress, as men do not mince words.
  - Another of his plays sees a messenger repeat a Greek battle cry, after which ($) Atossa mourns the defeat of her son; that is the earliest surviving play. [PWR]
  - In another of his plays, it is argued that the father is the more important parent, because Athena sprang from Zeus' head without a mother, leading to the (*) acquittal of the protagonist. [PWR]
  - That play's protagonist is chased by the three Furies, who get their name changed at the end.
  - This author apocryphally died when an eagle dropped a turtle on his bald head.
  - For ten points, identify this Greek tragedian who included The Eumenides and The Libation Bearers in his Oresteia. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: Aeschylus
  - In one play by this author, the title character's first words are a speech that begins, "O divine air Breezes on swift bird-wings... [PWR]
  - The multitudinous laughter of Mother Earth!" One of this man's plays was modified to include a Fourth Episode involving a Herald who prohibits a certain action to better segue into a play by a different author; that episode follows a Threnos. [PWR]
  - The antagonist is told by his Spy of the title characters at (*) Argos' camp in one play by this author, who wrote of another character telling the Oceanids about a marriage that could lead to Zeus's downfall after being trapped by Kratos and Bia. [PWR]
  - This author wrote of the alliance against Eteocles as well as another character who gets struck by lightning and has his liver eaten while he is chained to a mountain.
  - For 10 points, name this Greek tragedian behind Seven Against Thebes and Prometheus Bound. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the ancient Greek playwright Phrynichus, who was once fined the equivalent of three-years pay for how sad one of his plays was. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aeschylus [or Aiskhylos]):
    Phrynichus was an older contemporary of this tragedian, who is believed to have based his play The Persians on a lost play by Phrynichus. This author also wrote the Oresteia.
  Part 2 (ans: The Phoenician Women [or Phoinissai]):
    The Persians was likely based on the Phrynichus play with this title. This is also the title of a Euripides play featuring a chorus of pilgrims to Delphi trapped at Thebes due to the attack of Polynices.
  Part 3 (ans: Thespis (The word is "thespians.")):
    Phrynichus was a pupil of this dithyramb singer who, according to Aristotle, was the first Greek actor and the inventor of tragedy. As a result, this singer lends his name to an alternative word for actors in the English-speaking world.

[B2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The epitaph of one author unusually makes no mention of his literary career, instead noting that the "long-haired [these people] know [his noble prowess] well". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Persians [or Persai]):
    Name these people, who title the only play by its author to focus on contemporary events. That play opens with a queen of these people recounting a dream in which her son puts a yoke and reins on two women.
  Part 2 (ans: Aeschylus):
    The Persians expresses this Greek author and soldier's preoccupation with the Persian war. This playwright is best known for the Oresteia.
  Part 3 (ans: The Frogs [or Batrachoi or Ranae]):
    Aeschylus claims that The Persians was "the best thing I ever wrote" in this later play by another author, in which the servant Xanthias and his master repeatedly exchange clothes.

[B3] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This group of people are "dazzled" by "rings sparkling with magnificent emeralds" and "elegant canes / beautifully worked in silver and gold." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: barbarians [or barbarous; or varvarous] (The poem is "Waiting for the Barbarians" by Constantine Cavafy.)):
    Name this group of people "due here today" who "are bored by rhetoric and public speaking" in a poem that describes them as "a kind of solution."
  Part 2 (ans: Aeschylus):
    In the drama The Persians, this author describes how "terror fell" upon Xerxes and the rest of the namesake "barbarian" race at the hands of the Greeks. This ancient Greek tragedian also wrote the Oresteia.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Verlaine ("vair-LEN")):
    In a poem from the collection Jadis et naguere ("zhah-DEESE ay nah-GAIR"), this French poet wrote of an "Empire in decline" "that sees the tall, fair-haired Barbarians fall." Claude Debussy took the name of "Clair de lune" from a poem by this author of the collection Poemes saturniens.

[B4] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: James Barrett's 2002 book Staged Narrative examined the role of these characters in Greek tragedy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: messengers [accept heralds; accept kehruksor kehrukays]):
    Name these tragic characters who report events which have occurred off-stage. In Sophocles' Oedipus Rex, one of these characters narrates Jocasta's suicide and Oedipus' self-blinding.
  Part 2 (ans: The Persians [accept Persai or Persae] (by Aeschylus)):
    In this tragedy, a messenger's bad news prompts Atossa to summon her husband from the dead in order to rebuke their son. It is believed to be the oldest surviving Greek play.
  Part 3 (ans: Rhesus [or Rhesos]):
    A charioteer reports the death of this title character in a tragedy controversially attributed to Euripides. The so-called "Doloneia," which many scholars would excise from the Iliad, also centers around the death of this figure.

[B5] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Aristotle's Poetics asserts that this man incorporated "scene-paintings" into his plays, and enlarged the chorus from 12 to 15 people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sophocles):
    Name this ancient Greek tragedian whose play Oedipus Rex took second place at the 427 BC City Dionysia.
  Part 2 (ans: introducing a third actor [or a third character; or a tritagonist; prompt on adding an actor or other answers that don't mention the total number of actors; Thespis and Aeschylus introduced the first and second actors, respectively]):
    Aristotle's Poetics also credits Sophocles with this dramatic innovation, which scaled up reforms by Thespis and Aeschylus. This development relieved some of the burden on the chorus, but also reduced its importance.
  Part 3 (ans: Philoctetes):
    Three different actors played Odysseus, Neoptolemus, and the title archer, whom Odysseus had abandoned on Lemnos due to his crippling snakebite, in the 409 BC City Dionysia-winning performance of this late Sophocles play.

[B6] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This book follows a history of the title concept and claims Henry Kissinger based his policy on divisions between countries that participated in the Enlightenment and countries that hadn't. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orientalism):
    Name this 1978 book by Edward Said ["sigh"-EED] which states that the West has turned Eastern cultures into a mysticized "Other." It holds that because of the title concept, the East is not "a free subject of thought and action."
  Part 2 (ans: Gustave Flaubert):
    In Orientalism, Said accuses this author of Herodias and The Temptation of St. Anthony of perpetuating the fetishization of Oriental women after his liaison with Kuchuk Hanem. This author also wrote Salammbo.
  Part 3 (ans: The Persians (by Aeschylus) [accept Persai]):
    Said traced literary Orientalism back to this ancient play, which has a dream sequence where a woman in Asian robes submits to a woman in Greek robes. This play, in which Queen Atossa summons her dead husband's ghost, unusually depicted contemporary events, probably to relish recent victories.

[B7] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: During this event, one character argues that the woman is nothing more than "a nurse to the seed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the trial of Orestes):
    Name this event that concludes with its defendant acquitted of matricide by a tied vote, after which Athena declares that ties shall forever be decided in favor of the defendant.
  Part 2 (ans: Aeschylus):
    The trial of Orestes appears in The Eumenides, the third play in the Oresteia trilogy by this Ancient Greek playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: walking on a red/purple carpet [accept either color; accept synonyms for color; accept all forms of synonym for carpet, including tapestry]):
    In the first play in the trilogy, Agamemnon seals his fate when Clytemnestra successfully goads him into performing this profane action, while re-entering his palace.

[B8] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play opens with a fury urging a ghost to make his house commit greater sins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thyestes):
    Identify this tragedy by Seneca whose chorus is composed of citizens wishing that the wretched behavior of the royal house be brought to an end.
  Part 2 (ans: Titus Andronicus (by Shakespeare)):
    Seneca's Thyestes may have inspired this later play which also features the serving of people as food. At its end, the Goths are driven out of Rome by Lucius, who sentences a treasonous Moor to death.
  Part 3 (ans: Aeschylus):
    The shade of Thyestes makes an appearance in this earlier playwright's Agamemnon, part of his Oresteia.

[B9] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: This play was originally included in a trilogy with Phineus and Glaucus, both of which are now lost. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Persians):
    Name this play in which Atossa awaits the return of her son from battle and summons her the ghost of her dead husband from the underworld, who condemns her son for his hubris in losing the Battle of Salamis.
  Part 2 (ans: Aeschylus):
    The Persians is a play by this ancient Greek playwright of the Oresteia.
  Part 3 (ans: The Eumenides (or The Kindly Ones)):
    In this play of the Oresteia, Orestes is prosecuted for the murder of Clytemnestra after being chased relentlessly by the Furies. Orestes is eventually acquitted when Athena casts the final vote to set him free.

[B10] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: This tragedian wrote of Kratos, Bia, and Hephaestus chaining the title character of one play to a mountain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aeschylus):
    Name this Greek playwright who authored The Persians, Eumenides, and Prometheus Bound.
  Part 2 (ans: Orestes):
    This is the main character of Aeschylus's trilogy that includes The Libation Bearers. The three plays chronicle this man's revenge against his mother for the murder of his father.
  Part 3 (ans: The Suppliants):
    In this play by Aeschylus, King Pelasgus protects the Danaids, forty-nine of whom kill their husbands.
