=== STOCK CLUES: William Congreve ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William [accept William Congreve or William Shakespeare]
  - In a play by an author with this first name, the line "I was born, sir, when the crab was ascending, and all my affairs go backward" is spoken by the illiterate astrologer Foresight.
  - A playwright with this first name coined the phrase "kiss and tell" in a play in which Angelica receives a bond from Sir Sampson Legend before declaring her love for Valentine.
  - That playwright with this first name wrote about Mirabell foiling a blackmail plot by Fainall and marrying Millamant.
  - The line "Music has charms to soothe a savage breast" appears in The Mourning Bride by a playwright with this first name, but is often attributed to another author with this name who wrote "all that glisters is not gold." For 10 points, give the first name of a Restoration dramatist surnamed Congreve and the author of The Merchant of Venice. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Congreve
  - A character in one play by this author accuses her uncle and his nurse of practicing witchcraft after she claims to have seen them "pricking [their] thumbs" and writing "servants' names in blood." Two characters in a play by this author break an oath since it was sworn on a book of Messalina's poems rather than a bible. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of a play by this author avoids paying a debt by getting his (+) creditor, Trapland, drunk. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, two lovers discuss the use of masks when attending plays and the "dominion of the tea-table" when laying out the terms of their marriage. [PWR]
  - A play by this author ends after (*) Angelica reveals that she was pretending to love Sir Sampson Legend only to test the devotion of his son Valentine.
  - An attempt at blackmail is foiled in a play by this author after it is revealed that Mrs.
  - Fainall's fortune already belongs to Mirabell -- allowing him to marry Millamant.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration playwright of Love for Love and The Way of the World. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Congreve
  - In one play by this author, a man hires prostitutes to call on him so he seems popular with women; another woman in that play claims to hate men enough to marry one. [PWR]
  - In another of this author's plays, Ben's brother fakes madness to avoid signing over his inheritance.
  - One of his protagonists makes his lover promise to "continue to like [her] own face" in a scene where they lay out their conditions for marriage, the (*) 'proviso' scene. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about Angelica's false marriage to Sir Sampson in order to free her lover Valentine from debt.
  - He also coined the phrase "Music has charms to soothe a savage breast" and a quote paraphrased as "Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned." This author of Love for Love wrote about the lovers Mirabell and Millamant.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration playwright of The Mourning Bride and The Way of the World. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Congreve
  - One of this author's characters boasts that he has "the same face, the same words and accents, when I speak what I do think, and when I speak what I do not think." Another play by this author includes the "proviso" scene, in which two lovers plan their marriage until interrupted by a drunk trio.
  - The Moorish Queen Zara imbibes poison, mistakenly believing she dies beside Osmyn rather than her husband Manuel, in this writer's play about Almeria and Alphonso's love beleaguered by the war between Valencia and Granada. [PWR]
  - This writer said that "Music has (*) charms to soothe the savage breast" in his only tragedy, the source of the quote "hell hath no fury like a woman scorned." This author told of a love triangle between Cynthia, Lady Touchwood, and Mellefont in one play and wrote about Mirabell's plot to get Millamant's full dowry in another.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration playwright of The Mourning Bride, The Double-Dealer, and The Way of the World. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's play The Mourning Bride contains a line paraphrased as "Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Name this author who wrote about Mirabell and Millamant negotiating a marriage agreement in the "proviso scene" of another play.
  Part 2 (ans: Restoration era [or English Restoration; or Stuart Restoration]):
    Congreve wrote during this historical period named for the return of Charles II. Plays from this period often featured spectacular stage effects and bawdy humor.
  Part 3 (ans: John Wilmot [or John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester]):
    This courtier of Charles II wrote about King Bolloxinion, who authorizes sodomy in his kingdom, in his play Sodom, or the Quintessence of Debauchery. He had affairs with the superstar actresses Nell Gwyn and Elizabeth Barry.

[B2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character holding one of these objects notes that she has been "toiling and moiling" for it, though her companion responds that it was "much too hard for me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pieces of china [accept porcelain; prompt on plates or dishes]):
    Name this sort of object, which the supposedly impotent Horner uses as code to discuss his sexual escapades with Lady Fidget, arousing the curiosities of Mrs. Squeamish, in William Wycherley's play The Country Wife.
  Part 2 (ans: English Restoration [or Stuart Restoration]):
    The sex-crazed protagonist and double entendres in The Country Wife are typical of the lewd sensibilities during this English historical period that followed Charles II's return from exile.
  Part 3 (ans: William Congreve):
    Wycherley was praised as "the one appointed to lash this crying age" by this other Restoration playwright, who penned comedies of manners such as Love for Love and The Way of the World.

[B3] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The origin of the phrase "hell hath no fury like a woman scorned" is a quote by Zara, a character from this author's play The Mourning Bride. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Name this playwright who wrote about Mirabell's attempt to get Lady Wishfort to let him marry Millamant in The Way of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: Restoration period [accept Restoration comedy]):
    William Congreve was an important figure in this literary movement, which came to prominence after the ascension of Charles II. Other playwrights from this movement include William Wycherley and John Dryden.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rover, or The Banish'd Cavaliers):
    This Restoration comedy by Aphra Behn follows a group of noblewomen and exiled Englishmen at a festival in Naples. The prostitute Angellica Bianca decides to spare Willmore at the end of this play.

[B4] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, a famous Spanish courtesan named Angellica charges a thousand crowns a month for her services, but Willmore, the title character, somehow manages to charm her into forgoing the fee. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rover [by Aphra Behn]):
    Name this 1677 play, a revision of Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso, set in Naples at carnival-time. It features Blunt being duped out of all of his belongings, Florinda's courtship with Don Pedro, and Hellena's rejection of the convent.
  Part 2 (ans: William Congreve):
    The Rover was an extremely popular example of Restoration comedy. This other dramatist wrote examples of 'softer' Restoration comedy, such as Love for Love, and a play which features a famous 'proviso scene' between Mirabell and Millamant.
  Part 3 (ans: rake):
    This term for a stock character in Restoration comedy comes from a word for 'hellraiser', and describes a man inclined to immoral behaviour, particularly womanising. This character's 'Progress' is tracked in a series of eight paintings by William Hogarth.

[B5] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one play by this author, Waitwell pretends to be Sir Rowland and, on Mirabell's command, tries to trick Lady Wishfort into a false engagement. For 10 points,
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Name this author who created the sayings "hell hath no fury like a woman scorned" and "kiss and tell" in plays like The Way of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: Restoration [accept Restoration comedies]):
    The Way of the World was a play from this period which had no rules governing its morality. Comedies in this period were also known as comedies of manners and this period saw the first professional female playwright, Aphra Behn.
  Part 3 (ans: The Man of Mode):
    This 1676 Restoration comedy by Sir George Etheredge subtitled Sir Fopling Flutter follows Dormiant extricating himself from his affair with Mrs. Loveit to marry Harriett.

[B6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is the subject of gossip by the free-spirited Dorimant, the heiress Harriet and the old flame Mrs. Loveit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Fopling Flutter [or Flutter]):
    Name this fashionable man-about-town who is the title character of George Etheredge's play The Man of Mode.
  Part 2 (ans: William Congreve):
    This contemporary to George Etheredge coined the phrase "Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned" in his play The Mourning Bride, and also introduced the lovers Mirabell and Millamant in The Way of the World.
  Part 3 (ans: gambling [or playing cards; or playing roulette; or playing spades]):
    In a plot worthy of one of his plays, Etheredge retired from writing, lost his fortune through participation in this activity, and then married a wealthy widow. This activity is the ruin of Alexei Ivanovich in a Dostoyevsky novella and Hermann in a Pushkin short story.

[B7] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Mary Osborne, the granddaughter of the first Duke of Marlborough, is thought to be an illegitimate daughter of this playwright. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Name this Restoration dramatist who wrote The Old Bachelor and The Double Dealer. Mirabell and Millamant seek Lady Wishfort's approval of their marriage in his play The Way of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: music):
    Congreve's most quotable play, The Mourning Bride, is the source of a line stating that this art form "hath charms to soothe a savage breast."
  Part 3 (ans: Valentine [do not accept "Proteus"]):
    Congreve's play Love for Love centers on a character of this name, a son of Sir Sampson Legend who loves Angelica. A Shakespeare character of this name employs the servant Speed and threatens the cowardly Thurio before marrying Silvia.

[B8] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In her first appearance in the play in which she features, this character declares to Witwoud that she would "never pin up my hair with prose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Millamant):
    Identify this character who discusses the conditions under which she might marry a certain person in what is known as the "proviso scene."
  Part 2 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Millamant appear in this play in which Lady Wishfort attempts to arrange a marriage with Sir Wilfull despite Millamant's preference for Mirabell.
  Part 3 (ans: William Congreve):
    The Way of the World is a play by this Restoration playwright who also wrote Love for Love and The Mourning Bridge.

[B9] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this man's plays opens with Almeria, the princess of Granada, stating that "Music has charms to soothe a savage breast." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Name this author of The Mourning Bride and Love for Love. He wrote of Mirabell's schemes to wed Lady Wishfort's niece Millamant in The Way of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: comedy [or word forms]):
    William Congreve, along with William Wycherley, revived this genre of play after the English Restoration. Traditional plays in this genre, such as Shakespeare's As You Like It, end with weddings.
  Part 3 (ans: The Beaux's Stratagem):
    In this Restoration comedy by Irishman George Farquhar, Aimwell tries to marry Dorinda for her money as his friend Archer poses as his servant. They're also caught up in a plot to rob Lady Bountiful's house.

[B10] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of the Kit-Cat Club, this man wrote a lengthy response to Jeremy Collier's critique A Short View of the Immorality and Profaneness of the English Stage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Who is this English playwright, who wrote The Old Bachelor and Love for Love?
  Part 2 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Congreve is probably best known for this play, whose characters include Foible, Fainall, Mirabell and Millamant.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    Congreve was friends with this author of Gulliver's Travels and A Modest Proposal.
