=== STOCK CLUES: The Way of the World ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Way of the World
  - One character in this play agrees to her lover's demand that she never wear masks at night made from "hog's bones, hare's gall, pig water," or "the marrow of a roasted cat." That character in this play pins up her hair with letters she receives, but only those written in verse rather than prose, as attested to by her servant Mincing.
  - This play's two romantic leads draw up the terms by which they'd be willing to wed each other in its "proviso scene," as one of them tries to avoid being married off to Sir Wilfull Witwoud.
  - This play opens with two characters playing cards in a chocolate house, including a man who convinces his servant Waitwell to pose as the rich Sir Rowland in order to hoodwink Lady Wishfort.
  - For 10 points, Mirabell and Millamant marry at the end of what Restoration comedy by William Congreve? [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: 18th century [or 1700s; prompt on "the last century"] [The first two works are "On the Artificial Comedy of the Last Century" by Charles Lamb and The Way of the World by William Congreve.]
  - An essay argues that the "artificial comedy" of this century occurs in a "utopia of gallantry" unrelated to morality. [PWR]
  - A work from this century's first year contains a "proviso scene" in which Millamant and Mirabell discuss the terms of their marriage. [PWR]
  - In a play from this century, Sir Oliver, disguised as a moneylender, is pleased that his nephew refuses to sell his portrait. [PWR]
  - David Garrick speaks the prologue of a play from this century whose plot is set off by a (*) prank played at the Three Pigeons alehouse by Tony Lumpkin. [PWR]
  - Plays from this century include one about the gossip-mongerer Lady Sneerwell, and one in which Kate Hardcastle is mistaken for a barmaid; those plays are The School for Scandal and She Stoops to Conquer.
  - For 10 points, name this century when Oliver Goldsmith and Richard Sheridan wrote plays. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Way of the World
  - One character in this play says that he would be miserable if he were rid of his wife, because getting rid of her is his only hope, and one should never outlive one's hopes. [PWR]
  - In Act Five, two characters in this play break an oath not to reveal another character's affair, because that oath was sworn on a poetry collection instead of on a bible. [PWR]
  - One character in this play states his future wife cannot have a female confidante or chase after fops at the theatre, making these conditions of their marriage in its (*) "proviso scene". [PWR]
  - In this play, a servant disguises himself as his employer's uncle, Sir Rowland, in order to falsely woo Lady Wishfort.
  - This play begins in a chocolate house and ends with Foible's revelation of Mrs.
  - Marwood's affair, destroying Fainall's blackmail scheme.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration comedy that concludes with Millament's imminent marriage to Mirabel, by William Congreve. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: During this literary period, the first English actress, Margaret Hughes, made her debut on stage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English Restoration):
    Name this literary period that began after the repeal of Puritan prohibitions on theater. Playwrights such as William Wycherley and William Congreve wrote licentious comedies during this period.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This Restoration playwright authored The Rover, a play about exiled English royalists in Naples. This female playwright also wrote one of the earliest English-language novels, Oroonoko, about a royal slave in Suriname.
  Part 3 (ans: world [accept "all the world's a stage" or The Way of the World]):
    Congreve wrote a play titled for this thing's "Way" about Millimant and Mirabel's attempts to marry. In Shakespeare's As You Like It, a speech on the Seven Ages of Man opens by declaring "all the [this thing]'s a stage."

[B2] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, an elaborate scheme is hatched in which Waitwell is to woo Lady Wishfort so another character can marry Millamant for her fortune. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Name this William Congreve play that ends with Mirabell revealing that he already controls the fortune of Mrs. Fainall.
  Part 2 (ans: English Restoration [accept Restoration comedies]):
    The Way of the World and George Etherege's Love in a Tub are both examples of "comedies of manners" from this era of British history during the reign of Charles II.
  Part 3 (ans: fops [accept Lord Foppington; prompt on beaus]):
    Examples of these fashionable stock characters in Restoration comedies include Friendall in Thomas Southerne's The Wives' Excuse and Sir Novelty Fashion in Colley Cibber's ("SIB-er's") Love's Last Shift. Cibber played a role named for this type of character in John Vanbrugh's ("VAN-bruh's") The Relapse.

[B3] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In John Vanbrugh's The Relapse, Colley Cibber played a lord who is named after this type of character in English drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fop (Lord Foppington appears in The Relapse, and Sir Fopling Flutter appears in The Man of Mode.)):
    Name this character type that also names the protagonist of Etherege's The Man of Mode. It refers to a man who is overly concerned with his appearance.
  Part 2 (ans: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]):
    Fops are stock characters in England's comedy of manners. French works that could be described as comedies of manners include ones by this French playwright of The Misanthrope and The School for Wives.
  Part 3 (ans: The Way of the World):
    William Congreve wrote this Restoration comedy about the witty lovers Mirabell and Millamant, who attempt to trick the bitter Lady Wishfort into an engagement with Sir Rowland.

[B4] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's prologue contrasts "natural" fools with "fools of fortune" and is spoken by Mr. Betterton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Name this William Congreve play in which Mirabell must get Lady Wishfort's consent for his marriage to Millamant.
  Part 2 (ans: the 18th century [or 1700s]):
    The Way of the World was performed in the first year of this century. Goldsmith's She Stoops to Conquer and Sheridan's A School for Scandal were also written during this century.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Lamb):
    This author praised The Way of the World for interesting the audience in the pursuits of its characters, "for whom you care absolutely nothing," in his essay "On the Artificial Comedy of the Last Century." His other essays include "Old China."

[B5] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In her first appearance in the play in which she features, this character declares to Witwoud that she would "never pin up my hair with prose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Millamant):
    Identify this character who discusses the conditions under which she might marry a certain person in what is known as the "proviso scene."
  Part 2 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Millamant appear in this play in which Lady Wishfort attempts to arrange a marriage with Sir Wilfull despite Millamant's preference for Mirabell.
  Part 3 (ans: William Congreve):
    The Way of the World is a play by this Restoration playwright who also wrote Love for Love and The Mourning Bridge.

[B6] 2014 ACF Fall (2014) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: During this play's Proviso Scene, one character demands that she be allowed to sleep as long as she wants if she marries the protagonist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Identify this Restoration comedy, in which Mirabell tries to trick Lady Wishfort into consenting to his marriage to Millamant. In it, Mirabell's servant Waitwell pretends to be the wealthy Sir Rowland to woo Wishfort.
  Part 2 (ans: William Congreve):
    The Way of the World is by this late 17th century playwright, who also penned Love for Love and The Mourning Bride.
  Part 3 (ans: a woman):
    In Act III of The Mourning Bride, Zara famously declares that "Heaven has no rage, like love to hatred turned / Nor hell a fury, like" one of these people "scorned."

[B7] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of the Kit-Cat Club, this man wrote a lengthy response to Jeremy Collier's critique A Short View of the Immorality and Profaneness of the English Stage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Who is this English playwright, who wrote The Old Bachelor and Love for Love?
  Part 2 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Congreve is probably best known for this play, whose characters include Foible, Fainall, Mirabell and Millamant.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    Congreve was friends with this author of Gulliver's Travels and A Modest Proposal.
