=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: William Congreve ===
(Questions where 'William Congreve' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 9 found, 53 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 20 found, 59 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Way of the World
  - One character in this play agrees to her lover's demand that she never wear masks at night made from "hog's bones, hare's gall, pig water," or "the marrow of a roasted cat." That character in this play pins up her hair with letters she receives, but only those written in verse rather than prose, as 
  - This play's two romantic leads draw up the terms by which they'd be willing to wed each other in its "proviso scene," as one of them tries to avoid being married off to Sir Wilfull Witwoud.
  - This play opens with two characters playing cards in a chocolate house, including a man who convinces his servant Waitwell to pose as the rich Sir Rowland in order to hoodwink Lady Wishfort.
  - For 10 points, Mirabell and Millamant marry at the end of what Restoration comedy by William Congreve?

[TM2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: love [or Love's Labour Lost; or All for Love; or Love for Love; or Love and the Bottle]
  - A play titled for this concept revolves around a highway robber who, like his Protestant creator George Farquhar, moves from Derry to London.
  - This concept titles a play in which the protagonist takes the identity of Truth to avoid signing a contract that would give his inheritance to Ben.
  - In a different play titled for this concept, Alexas denies a man's prophesying about the doomed fate of Egypt.
  - Angelica, the niece of the astrologer Foresight, becomes engaged to Sampson Legend in a (*) William Congreve play whose title contains this concept twice.
  - Serapion delivers a eulogy for Mark Antony and Cleopatra in a John Dryden play titled for this concept, the first word in the title of a comedy about the King of Navarre's abstinence from women.
  - For 10 points, name this concept that, in the title of a Shakespeare comedy, has its Labour's Lost.

[TM3] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: love [accept Sir Anthony Love; accept Love for Love; accept All for Love] (The lead-in is the very interesting play Sir Anthony Love.)
  - This is the final word in the title of a Thomas Southerne play in which the woman Lucia disguises herself as the swashbuckling Sir Anthony.
  - A play whose title ends with this word coined the phrase "kiss and tell" when it is used by the gossip-spreading Mr.
  - Tattle.
  - In a play whose title ends with this word, a man receives a ruby bracelet which is delivered by the eunuch Alexas.
  - This is the final word in the title of a play whose destitute protagonist pretends to be insane in order to not sign away his estate to his brother Ben.
  - That play whose title ends with this word is tricked into thinking Angelica is going to marry his father Sir Sampson.
  - This is the (*) first and last word in the title of a play about Valentine Legend by William Congreve.
  - This is the final word in the title of a Restoration play that ends with a eulogy given by the priest Serapion for a Roman general and a queen who killed herself with an asp.
  - For 10 points, an adaptation of Antony and Cleopatra by John Dryden is titled All for [what concept]?

[TM4] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Charles II [prompt on Charles]
  - In a poem written during this monarch's reign, the speaker gets "swift orders" from his mind that he should "prepare to throw / The all-dissolving Thunderbolt from below."At the end of "The Disappointment," a poem exemplary of poetry under this monarch which dealt with premature ejaculation, Lysande
  - John Wilmot, part of this monarch's court, was a possible lover of a future lover of this monarch, the actress Nell Gwyn.
  - Comedy of manners flourished during this king's reign, encompassing playwrights like William Congreve.
  - For 10 points, name this king, whose ascension to the English throne began the Restoration era.

[TM5] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: England [or Britain; or Great Britain; or United Kingdom; or UK]
  - An author from this country wrote a play whose notorious "Nicky-Nacky Scene" depicts a politician pretending to be a bull, a toad, and a dog while being whipped by the courtesan Aquilina.
  - A play written in this country features an Act 4 "proviso scene" in which two lovers use legal terms to negotiate the conditions of their marriage.
  - In a bawdy play written in this country, a man deliberately spreads the false rumor that he is impotent so that he can seduce the wives of unsuspecting husbands. 17th-century authors in this country wrote Venice Preserved and comedies like The Way of the World and The Country Wife.
  - For 10 points, name this country where William Congreve and William Wycherly wrote plays after the Restoration of Charles II.

[TM6] 2017 GEODUCK (2017) | Diff: 9 | Geography
     Answer: rockets [orfirearrows; prompt on just arrows]
  - In Laos and eastern Thailand, these objects are called bang fai and are central to a springtime festival that represents a war between a Toad King and a naga.
  - Groups called cushoons were instructed to use these objects through the guidebook Fathul Mujahidin.
  - Examples of these objects include the bo hiya in Japan, and multiple of them were required to operate a hwacha in Korea.
  - These objects were used to seal a victory at the Battle of (*) Pollilur by the army of Tipu Sultan.
  - The use of these weapons by the Kingdom of Mysore influenced William Congreve to create a variety of them used in the War of 1812.
  - For 10 points, what gunpowder-fueled objects did Wan Hu legendarily strap to his chair in an attempt to travel to space?

[TM7] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Kingdom of Mysore ("my-sore") [accept Mysore Wars]
  - After this kingdom became a princely state, its economy and law were reformed with the assistance of British commissioner Mark Cubbon.
  - A ruler of this kingdom was accused of abducting 12,000 children from Tanjore (tahn-johr) with the intent of converting them to Islam.
  - Its last independent ruler owned an automaton depicting a tiger devouring a European soldier's corpse.
  - Sir William Congreve based his rocket design on the rockets produced by this kingdom.
  - This kingdom, which agreed to the Treaty of Mangalore (man-gah-"lore"), was ruled by members of the Wadiyar (wah-dee-yar) dynasty, including Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan.
  - It ruled most of the Deccan plateau before losing the 1799 Battle of Seringapatam (seh-RIN-gah-pah-tahm) to a Maratha-British alliance.
  - For 10 points, what South Indian kingdom fought four namesake wars against the British?

[TM8] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Love for Love
  - One character in this play weighs the good omen of getting out of bed backwards that morning with the bad omen of stumbling down the stairs and encountering a weasel.
  - In the opening scene of this play, one character asks the protagonist if Plato will pay his bail, or if Epictetus or Seneca have taught him how to pay his debts without money, shortly before they both get Trapland drunk on sack so that he won't collect a debt.
  - Every time his father's lawyer enters the room, the protagonist proclaims himself to be Truth, as part of pretending to be (*) insane in order to avoid signing a contract that would sign over his inheritance to his sailor brother Ben.
  - A character named Scandal attempts to cuckold the astrology-loving Mr.
  - Foresight in this play, whose protagonist is heartbroken when Angelica becomes engaged to his father Sir Sampson.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration comedy about Valentine Legend by William Congreve.

[TM9] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Way of the World
  - One character in this play says that he would be miserable if he were rid of his wife, because getting rid of her is his only hope, and one should never outlive one's hopes.
  - In Act Five, two characters in this play break an oath not to reveal another character's affair, because that oath was sworn on a poetry collection instead of on a bible.
  - One character in this play states his future wife cannot have a female confidante or chase after fops at the theatre, making these conditions of their marriage in its (*) "proviso scene".
  - In this play, a servant disguises himself as his employer's uncle, Sir Rowland, in order to falsely woo Lady Wishfort.
  - This play begins in a chocolate house and ends with Foible's revelation of Mrs.
  - Marwood's affair, destroying Fainall's blackmail scheme.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration comedy that concludes with Millament's imminent marriage to Mirabel, by William Congreve.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: During this literary period, the first English actress, Margaret Hughes, made her debut on stage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English Restoration):
    Name this literary period that began after the repeal of Puritan prohibitions on theater. Playwrights such as William Wycherley and William Congreve wrote licentious comedies during this period.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This Restoration playwright authored The Rover, a play about exiled English royalists in Naples. This female playwright also wrote one of the earliest English-language novels, Oroonoko, about a royal slave in Suriname.
  Part 3 (ans: world [accept "all the world's a stage" or The Way of the World]):
    Congreve wrote a play titled for this thing's "Way" about Millimant and Mirabel's attempts to marry. In Shakespeare's As You Like It, a speech on the Seven Ages of Man opens by declaring "all the [this thing]'s a stage."

[BM2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's opening claims that "music has charms to soothe a savage breast." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mourning Bride):
    Name this only tragedy by William Congreve, which elsewhere notes that "heav'n has no rage, like love to hatred turn'd."
  Part 2 (ans: a woman scorn'd [or "nor hell a fury, like a woman scorn'd"]):
    The Mourning Bride is now best remembered for an oft-misquoted phrase from Act 3, Scene 2, which notes that hell has "no fury" like one of these people. A specific two-word phrase is required.
  Part 3 (ans: Restoration theater [or Restoration period; or Restoration comedy; or Restoration drama]):
    The Mourning Bride exemplifies this period's theater. William Wycherley's The Country Wife is one of the "comedies" named for this period, during which Charles II returned to the throne.

[BM3] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: "Touchwood," a British idiom analogous to the phrase "knock on wood," was a surprisingly common character name in 17th and 18th-century comedies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English Restoration ):
    The devious Maskwell schemes to steal Touchwood's property and win over Cynthia in William Congreve's The Double Dealer, a comedy from this period following the Interregnum.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Middleton (The first play is A Chaste Maid in Cheapside.)):
    In a city comedy by this author about Moll Yellowhammer, Touchwood Senior is so virile that he must leave his wife for fear of having another child. Thomas Dekker co-wrote the comedy The Honest Whore with this Jacobean playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: The Belle's Stratagem (Farquhar's play is The Beaux' Stratagem.)):
    Lady Frances dupes her jealous husband George Touchwood at a masquerade ball in a subplot in this play. Harriet Smithson made her name starring as Letitia Hardy in this comedy by Hannah Cowley, whose title alludes to an earlier play by George Farquhar.

[BM4] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man learned military tactics from French officers serving under his father, Hayder Ali. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tipu Sultan [or Fateh Ali Tipu; or Tipu Sahib]):
    Name this ruler, who died during the siege of Seringapatam. He was forced to pay an indemnity after being defeated by the Maratha Confederacy.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of Mysore):
    Tipu Sultan was known as the "Tiger" of this South Indian kingdom. It fought four wars against the British and ceded nearly half its territory to Charles Cornwallis after the siege of Seringapatam.
  Part 3 (ans: rockets [or rocket artillery; accept Congreve rocket; accept Mysorean rocket; prompt on artillery]):
    Mysore pioneered the use of these weapons against the British. William Congreve developed the British version of this weapon.

[BM5] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The origin of the phrase "hell hath no fury like a woman scorned" is a quote by Zara, a character from this author's play The Mourning Bride. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Name this playwright who wrote about Mirabell's attempt to get Lady Wishfort to let him marry Millamant in The Way of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: Restoration period [accept Restoration comedy]):
    William Congreve was an important figure in this literary movement, which came to prominence after the ascension of Charles II. Other playwrights from this movement include William Wycherley and John Dryden.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rover, or The Banish'd Cavaliers):
    This Restoration comedy by Aphra Behn follows a group of noblewomen and exiled Englishmen at a festival in Naples. The prostitute Angellica Bianca decides to spare Willmore at the end of this play.

[BM6] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, the amateur astronomer Dr. Baliardo is obsessed with the moon and wishes to marry his daughters to lunar courtiers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn (The second play is The Rover.)):
    Name this author of The Emperor of the Moon. A play by this author, which was based on Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso, depicts the amorous adventures of Florinda and Hellena at Carnival.
  Part 2 (ans: English Restoration [or Stuart Restoration; accept Restoration drama or Restoration comedy]):
    Aphra Behn was employed as a spy by Charles II during this period of English history. William Wycherly and William Congreve were other authors from this period that followed the Interregnum.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    This other Restoration author wrote about the Great Fire of London in his poem Annus Mirabilis. This poet also satirized the "true-blue Protestant Poet" Thomas Shadwell in the mock epic Mac Flecknoe.

[BM7] 2020 ACF Fall (2020) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: William Congreve wrote The Way of the World during this literary period. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Restoration):
    Name this period whose sexually explicit comedies often include rakish male characters. It coincides with, and is named after, the period of English history in which Stuart monarchs were returned to the throne.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This author included the rakish naval captain Willmore in her play The Rover. This author, who wrote under the pseudonym Astrea, was one of the first English women to earn a living from writing, and was employed as a spy in Antwerp by Charles II.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    Restoration-era comedy of manners was later revived by this playwright with The School for Scandal. This playwright also created the character of Mrs. Malaprop in The Rivals.

[BM8] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about cuckolding in the plays of William Congreve.
  Part 1 (ans: The Double Dealer):
    In this Congreve play, Brisk cuckolds Lord Froth, and the aptly named Careless almost cuckolds Lord Plyant. This play's central plot focuses on Mellefont's courtship of Cynthia against the machinations of his aunt, Lady Touchwood, and the nefarious title character, Maskwell.
  Part 2 (ans: banker):
    In Congreve's play The Old Bachelor, Bellmour cuckolds a character with this profession named Fondlewife. Other literary characters with this profession include Nicholas Bulstrode in Middlemarch and Krogstad in A Doll's House.

[BM9] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A scene characteristic of this period's bawdy comedy of manners is the "China Scene" from The Country Wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English Restoration Era Comedy):
    Name this era of English drama that often forwent biting satire, to instead focus on wittiness and aristocratic shenanigans. The first actresses appeared on stage during this era, whose notable playwrights included William Congreve and William Wycherley.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    The Restoration comedians distanced themselves from the more biting satire of this earlier playwright who wrote The Alchemist, Volpone, and Every Man in His Humour.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    The Restoration era's most successful female playwright was this woman who wrote The Rover and The Lucky Chance. She is also known for her early novel Oroonoko.

[BM10] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The exploits of the libertine John Wilmot likely inspired this play's title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rover):
    Identify this play centered on the love between the rakish Willmore and the crossdressing Hellena. A prostitute in this play named Angellica Bianca shares her initials with the play's spy-turned-playwright author, Aphra Behn.
  Part 2 (ans: the Restoration):
    Aphra Behn wrote The Rover during this period of British history which began when Charles II assumed the throne. Other playwrights active during this period include William Wycherley and William Congreve.
  Part 3 (ans: Nathaniel Bacon (of Bacon's Rebellion fame)):
    Behn's late play The Widow Ranter is subtitled for this real-life person's "history." In the play, this person kills himself with poison after mistakenly slaying his crossdressing lover, the "Indian Queen" Semernia.

[BM11] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Domingo Paes ("pies") and Fernao Nunes visited this kingdom during its height under the reign of Krishna Deva Raya. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vijayanagara Empire [or Karnata Empire; or Kingdom of Bisnegar]):
    Name this medieval empire whose ruins are located at Hampi in Karnataka. This empire collapsed after the Gilani brothers turned on its army at the Battle of Talikota.
  Part 2 (ans: Delhi Sultanate):
    Vijayanagara grew out of the ashes of the Hoysala Empire, which collapsed under the repeated invasions of this northern sultanate centered at the location of modern-day India's capital.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Mysore):
    The Wadiyar Dynasty ruled this successor state to Vijayanagara. Hayder Ali and Tipu Sultan, who seized power in this kingdom, deployed rockets that would later inspire William Congreve in three namesake wars against the British.

[BM12] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play opens with Jimmy and Cliff reading the Sunday papers while Alison is ironing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Look Back in Anger):
    Name this play in which Jimmy becomes involved with the actress Helena after alienating his wife with his acerbic monologues. Years later, its author revisited the same character with his play Dejavu.
  Part 2 (ans: angry [accept Angry Young Men or 12 Angry Men]):
    The author of Look Back in Anger, John Osborne, belonged to a literary movement named for being this kind of young men. In a Reginald Rose play partly named for this emotion, a single juror is able to convince eleven others of a young man's innocence.
  Part 3 (ans: England [accept The United Kingdom; accept Great Britain]):
    The Angry Young Men were a movement from this country, whose much earlier Restoration era dramatists include William Congreve and John Dryden.

[BM13] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, an elaborate scheme is hatched in which Waitwell is to woo Lady Wishfort so another character can marry Millamant for her fortune. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Name this William Congreve play that ends with Mirabell revealing that he already controls the fortune of Mrs. Fainall.
  Part 2 (ans: English Restoration [accept Restoration comedies]):
    The Way of the World and George Etherege's Love in a Tub are both examples of "comedies of manners" from this era of British history during the reign of Charles II.
  Part 3 (ans: fops [accept Lord Foppington; prompt on beaus]):
    Examples of these fashionable stock characters in Restoration comedies include Friendall in Thomas Southerne's The Wives' Excuse and Sir Novelty Fashion in Colley Cibber's ("SIB-er's") Love's Last Shift. Cibber played a role named for this type of character in John Vanbrugh's ("VAN-bruh's") The Rela

[BM14] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In John Vanbrugh's The Relapse, Colley Cibber played a lord who is named after this type of character in English drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fop (Lord Foppington appears in The Relapse, and Sir Fopling Flutter appears in The Man of Mode.)):
    Name this character type that also names the protagonist of Etherege's The Man of Mode. It refers to a man who is overly concerned with his appearance.
  Part 2 (ans: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]):
    Fops are stock characters in England's comedy of manners. French works that could be described as comedies of manners include ones by this French playwright of The Misanthrope and The School for Wives.
  Part 3 (ans: The Way of the World):
    William Congreve wrote this Restoration comedy about the witty lovers Mirabell and Millamant, who attempt to trick the bitter Lady Wishfort into an engagement with Sir Rowland.

[BM15] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This dynasty was cursed to only have children in alternating generations when one of its rulers stole the jewels of the Vijayanagara queen Alamelamma, who then jumped off a cliff in despair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wodeyars of Mysore [or Wadiyar or Odeyer]):
    Name this dynasty founded in 1399 by Yaduraya, which continued to rule the Kingdom of Mysore in southern India all the way through to 1950.
  Part 2 (ans: Congreve rockets):
    The Wodeyars became puppets for a time under Hyder Ali, whose artillery techniques inspired Sir William Congreve to create his namesake version of these military weapons, later celebrated in a certain song about Fort McHenry.
  Part 3 (ans: Ghats):
    Hyder's son Tipu Sultan expanded Mysore rule all the way to the Eastern one of these mountain ranges, named for a word that denotes a terraced riverbank used for religious bathing purposes. Together, the Eastern and Western examples of these ranges are the edges of the Deccan plateau.

[BM16] 2017 ACF Fall (2017) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: This kingdom was ruled by the Wadiyar family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mysore):
    Name this southern Indian kingdom. The colonization of this kingdom was held off by its able military commanders Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan, who died during the sack of its capital city Seringapatam.
  Part 2 (ans: British Empire [or Britain; or United Kingdom; accept British East India Company; anti-prompt on England]):
    The Kingdom of Mysore fought four wars against this colonizing power, which later took control of all of India.
  Part 3 (ans: rockets [accept Congreve rockets; prompt on artillery]):
    At the Battle of Pollilur, Tipu Sultan successfully used weapons of this type against the British. Their Mysorean type was the basis for the William Congreve-designed British version that was used at the siege of Fort McHenry.

[BM17] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's prologue contrasts "natural" fools with "fools of fortune" and is spoken by Mr. Betterton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Way of the World):
    Name this William Congreve play in which Mirabell must get Lady Wishfort's consent for his marriage to Millamant.
  Part 2 (ans: the 18th century [or 1700s]):
    The Way of the World was performed in the first year of this century. Goldsmith's She Stoops to Conquer and Sheridan's A School for Scandal were also written during this century.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Lamb):
    This author praised The Way of the World for interesting the audience in the pursuits of its characters, "for whom you care absolutely nothing," in his essay "On the Artificial Comedy of the Last Century." His other essays include "Old China."

[BM18] 2015 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2015) | Diff: 6 | Science
     Leadin: The military engineer William Moore developed a precursor to this equation thanks to experimental data gathered by using a weapon designed by Sir William Congreve. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the ideal rocket equation [accept, but DO NOT MENTION, the Tsiolkovsky rocket equation]):
    Identify this equation that sets delta-v equal to the effective exhaust velocity times the logarithm of the ratio of initial and final masses. As its name suggests, it is useful for describing the motion of things that decrease in mass as they use fuel.
  Part 2 (ans: Konstantin Tsiolkovsky [or Konstantin Eduardovich Tsiolkovsky; or Konstanty Ciolkowski]):
    The ideal rocket equation is often named for this reclusive Russian scientist, who like Hermann Oberth and Robert Goddard is considered a father of rocketry.
  Part 3 (ans: Newton's second law of motion [prompt on partial answer]):
    Because a rocket's mass changes during flight, its motion is not governed by this classical law named for an English scientist, which simply states that force equals mass times acceleration.

[BM19] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This air promises that "Trees, where you sit, shall crowd into a shade." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Where'er you walk"):
    Name this air, sung by Jupiter in Semele.
  Part 2 (ans: George Frideric Handel):
    Semele was written by this composer to a libretto by William Congreve. His other oratorios include Israel in Egypt and Solomon.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Ways of Zion do Mourn"):
    Handel often tried to squeeze out multiple compositions from his music, such as by weaving this funeral anthem for Queen Caroline into his oratorio Israel in Egypt. For the oratorio, he altered the title by changing two words to "sons" and "Israel."

[BM20] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this man's plays opens with Almeria, the princess of Granada, stating that "Music has charms to soothe a savage breast." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Congreve):
    Name this author of The Mourning Bride and Love for Love. He wrote of Mirabell's schemes to wed Lady Wishfort's niece Millamant in The Way of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: comedy [or word forms]):
    William Congreve, along with William Wycherley, revived this genre of play after the English Restoration. Traditional plays in this genre, such as Shakespeare's As You Like It, end with weddings.
  Part 3 (ans: The Beaux's Stratagem):
    In this Restoration comedy by Irishman George Farquhar, Aimwell tries to marry Dorinda for her money as his friend Archer poses as his servant. They're also caught up in a plot to rob Lady Bountiful's house.
