=== STOCK CLUES: Sisley ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Claude Monet [or Oscar-Claude Monet; accept Alfred Sisley until "Cliffs" is read]
  - Former Musee des Beaux Arts-Nice curator Jean Forneris masterminded a 1998 plan to steal this artist's Cliffs at Dieppe, the first of two times that painting was stolen. [PWR]
  - He depicted a number of poles next to to the Santa Maria della Salute in a series of paintings of the Grand Canal in Venice. [PWR]
  - A faceless woman in a spreading white dress sits behind this artist in a John Singer Sargent depiction of him (*) "painting at the edge of a wood". [PWR]
  - His late-life cataracts influenced the production of a series of paintings made in his Giverny flower garden.
  - He included a surprisingly non-luminant sun in a depiction of the harbor of Le Havre that, via critic Louis Leroy, gave its name to a movement he pioneered.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of series on Haystacks and Water Lilies who also created Impression, Sunrise. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist included several views of the Thames in his Hampton Court series. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred Sisley):
    Name this painter, who depicted water-covered streets in the titular French village in his Flood at Port-Marly.
  Part 2 (ans: Barbizon School):
    Sisley painted several works near the Forest of Fontainebleau, which was home to this group of pre-Impressionists led by Jean-Francois Millet and Theodore Rousseau.
  Part 3 (ans: Italy):
    Several artists from this country worked on the Palace of Fontainebleau, such as Rosso Fiorentino and Benvenuto Cellini.

[B2] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man created a Portrait of Painter Bazille and in his old age, he hired Richard Guino to follow his sculpting instructions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pierre-Auguste Renoir):
    Name this French painter of Luncheon of the Boating Party.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustave Caillebotte):
    This other French painter was a longtime owner of Renoir's Moulin de la Galette, and that painting can be seen in this man's self-portrait. He is perhaps more famous for The Floor Scrapers and Paris Street: Rainy Day.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Sisley):
    Renoir also painted this Impressionist painter of The Boat During the Flood, Port-Marly. This English painter also created a series of paintings of the Thames.

[B3] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's later pointillist works include Picking Peas and Potato Harvest, and he gained experience while studying under Anton Melbye. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Camille Pissarro):
    Name this artist who painted day and night versions of Boulevard Montmartre. His Apple Picking at Eragny and Bather in the Woods both show women in a rural setting.
  Part 2 (ans: impressionism):
    Pissarro exhibited as part of this movement in the middle of his career. It includes Manet and Monet, whose depiction of a sunrise scene shares its name.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Sisley):
    This artist's earliest surviving work is his Lane Near a Small Town. A British citizen, he is best known for works such as a View of the Thames and his Bridge at Villeneuve-la-Garenne.
