=== STOCK CLUES: de Gaulle ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 48 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 43 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Charles de Gaulle [or Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle]
  - In "Playing the China card?," Garret Martin argues that this leader foresaw a multi-polar international order arising from a diplomatic recognition driven by "the weight of evidence and reason." This leader forced agreements on the Common Agricultural Policy by withdrawing representatives from multinational institutions in the "Empty Chair Crisis." This leader's opposition to the MacMillan government's pro-American stance led him to veto (*) Britain's entry into the EEC.
  - The Day of the Jackal fictionalizes an assassination attempt on this leader by Raoul Salan's OAS.
  - This leader angered Lester Pearson at Expo 67 by declaring "Long live free Quebec!" and earlier brokered Algerian independence in the Evian Accords.
  - For 10 points, name this founder of the Fifth Republic who led the Free French during World War II. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Charles de Gaulle [or Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle]
  - This leader insisted on referring to the Soviet Union as Russia due to viewing the nation as the  fundamental unit of history. [PWR]
  - A different country's leader derisively compared this leader to a surprised bathing llama and previously undermined this leader during the Levant Crisis.
  - During a press conference discussing an arms embargo on Israel, this leader called the Jewish people "elite, full of themselves and domineering." This man's disagreements with the (*) Common Agricultural Policy led to the Empty Chair Crisis. [PWR]
  - The governments of Harold MacMillan and Harold Wilson were both vetoed entry into the European Economic Community by this president.
  - This president angered Lester Pearson when he declared during a visit to Montreal "Vive le Quebec libre!" For 10 points, name this French president who pursued a multipolar foreign policy after lack of Western support for the Algerian War. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Ahead By a Century (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Charles de Gaulle
  - After a visiting foreign leader received a warm response, this politician enviously said "look at the rabble cheering the old bandit". [PWR]
  - While visiting a city in Africa, this politician used a language's inclusive you for an ambiguous speech claiming "I understood you". [PWR]
  - In one speech, this politician claimed "it is Europe, from the Atlantic to the Urals" that would "decide the destiny of the world".
  - In a speech broadcast on the BBC that few people heard, this politician declared that the (*) flames of resistance "must not be extinguished and will not be extinguished". [PWR]
  - This politician, the deliverer of the Appeal of June 18, sparked Prime Minister Lester B.
  - Pearson to claim that Canada "did not need to be liberated" after he gave an informal speech from Montreal City Hall's balcony.
  - For 10 points, name this politician who declared "Vive le Quebec libre" and delivered an iconic 1940 radio address considered the beginning of his leadership of the Free French. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charles de Gaulle
  - This politician's finance minister criticized the "exorbitant privilege" granted to the United States by the Bretton Woods system, resulting in this leader exchanging his country's dollar reserves for gold.
  - Reforms to the Common Agricultural Policy and the Luxembourg compromise resolved a dispute caused by this leader.
  - That withdrawal of a representative from the Hallstein Commission by this leader was the "empty chair crisis." The United Kingdom's initial application to join the European Communities was vetoed by this man who withdrew his country's military from NATO in 1966.
  - The Evian Accords granted Algeria independence during this man's Presidency.
  - For 10 points, name this founder of the Fifth Republic and commander of the Free French in World War II. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: (attempted) assassinations of Charles de Gaulle [or trying to kill Charles de Gaulle; or attempts to overthrow Charles de Gaulle as president of France; or attempts to replace Charles de Gaulle as president of France]
  - The best-known group to attempt this act were members of a club called the Old Headquarters, or Old Staff, including two Hungarians Gyula Sari and Lajos Marton.
  - An earlier attempt to perform this act was stopped at the "Battle of the Transistors," when radio messages were intercepted to discredit men based at Bab-el-Oued.
  - This act was attempted by the engineer who developed the Nord SS.10 anti-tank missile, but he was foiled when a black car nicknamed the Goddess got away despite having two blown-out tires.
  - That plan was codenamed Operation Charlotte Corday and tried to avenge the failure of the Generals' Putsch.
  - Raoul Salan had attempted this act, depicted in the opening scene of The Day of the Jackal, in order to retaliate for the Evian Accords where its target repudiated the OAS and acceded to the FLN in Algeria.
  - For 10 points, name this act of trying to liquidate the president of the Fifth Republic of France. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charles de Gaulle
  - This man fell out with a mentor over the last chapter of a book he was ghostwriting for his mentor, "The Soldier." After being captured at the Battle of Verdun, this soldier shared a cell with Mikhail Tukhachevsky at Ingolstadt.
  - This man opened a conference that granted territorial assemblies and legal equality to colonial subjects at Brazzaville.
  - This man advocated for a mechanized force in The Army of the Future and asked his troops to remain with him in the BBC-broadcasted Appeal of 18 June.
  - In that speech, this leader opposed the overtures for an armistice with the Germans made by the newly-formed government of Philippe Petain .
  - For 10 points, name this wartime leader of the Free French, who became the first president of the Fifth Republic. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charles de Gaulle [or Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle]
  - This leader refused clemency to a captured assassin after the assassin stated that all that was needed to capture him was to "take away his spectacles and braces." This leader appeared on television wearing an army uniform to foil the Generals' putsch against him.
  - An attempt on this leader's life inspired the plot of Frederick Forsyth's novel The Day of the Jackal.
  - This man tersely ordered the driver of his Citroen  DS limousine to drive faster while it was sprayed with bullets during an assassination attempt by the OAS.
  - Jean Bastien-Thiry was the last person to be executed by firing squad in France for an attempted assassination of this leader after he signed the Evian Accords giving Algeria its independence.
  - For 10 points, name this first president of the Fifth French Republic. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Charles de Gaulle
  - This man's government used a punishment called "national degradation," which was meted out to people found guilty of "national unworthiness." An ambassador of this leader proposed the creation of an organization called "the Union" in the Fouchet Plan.
  - This leader's withdrawal of representatives from the Hallstein Commission precipitated the "empty chair crisis" and forced the Luxembourg Compromise.
  - Although he's not Romanian, this leader (*) fled his country in a helicopter during a crisis that the Grenelle agreements failed to resolve.
  - This leader was targeted by the OAS after he signed the Evian Accords, and he was succeeded by George Pompidou after the wildcat strikes of May 1968.
  - For 10 points, name this French president of the Fifth Republic who had earlier led the Free French in 1968. [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: May 1968 protests in France [or anything specifying the student protests against Charles de Gaulle's government; or the 1968 protests in France; prompt on protests in France]
  - Jean-Louis Barrault's Grand Odeon Theater became a center of free discussion during this event.
  - "It is forbidden to forbid" was a slogan of this event, which led to the formation of the CMDO.
  - The Grenelle Agreements, which increased the minimum wage, were rejected during this event, which based many of its ideas from the pamphlet On the Poverty of Student Life.
  - The president of the nation in which it occurred fled to Baden-Baden.
  - Beginning with student outrage over the occupation of the Sorbonne, it involved the first nationwide wildcat strikes.
  - For 10 points, name these uprisings that nearly toppled Charles de Gaulle's government. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The motto "Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God" was printed on one of these objects of mammoth proportions gifted to Thomas Jefferson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a really big cheese):
    Name this kind of object which the citizens of Cheshire, Massachusetts created in 1802. A massive one of these objects spent two years in the White House after being gifted by Oswego, New York to Andrew Jackson.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles De Gaulle [or Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle]):
    This person once asked "how can you govern a country which has two hundred and forty-six varieties of cheese." Less cheesy exploits of this person included leading the Free French in Africa during World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: Queen Victoria [or Alexandrina Victoria]):
    A group of Somerset farmers gifted this ruler a massive cheese as a wedding gift. According to Shrabani Basu, this ruler befriended the royal servant Abdul "the Munshi" Karim after having his chicken curry.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about trade wars that weren't fought over cod:
  Part 1 (ans: bananas [reject "plantains"]):
    The US accused the EU of unfairly giving special access to former Caribbean colonies producing this good. This fruit was the primary product of the General Fruit Company.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    This world leader clashed with Joao Goulart's ("zh'wow goo-LAR's") Brazil over how lobsters move in the sea. This ruler's opposition to the Hallstein Commission's fixing the price of cereals led to the Empty Chair Crisis.
  Part 3 (ans: chicken [prompt on poultry; prompt on meat]):
    Lyndon Johnson levied a 25 percent tariff on brandy in response to French and West German taxes on this foodstuff. In 2023, Rishi Sunak stated that certain washing techniques meant the UK would not allow imports of this food from the US.

[B3] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The onetime-sailor Henri Martin and the stenographer Raymonde Dien became causes celebres ("cause suh-LEB-ruh") after being arrested for protesting against this conflict. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: First Indochina War [accept Anti-French Resistance War; accept answers that mention France fighting in modern Vietnam or the Viet Minh]):
    Name this conflict, during which one side was humiliated by the pessimistic Revers Report. Berlioz's Requiem played on the radios after Joseph Laniel announced an unexpected 1954 surrender during this conflict.
  Part 2 (ans: Pierre Mendes France [or PMF; prompt on Mendes or France]):
    This leader of the Radical Party campaigned primarily on France's withdrawal from Indochina. He also began independence discussions with Tunisia and Morocco, but was stymied in Algeria by pieds-noirs ("pyay-nwarr").
  Part 3 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    Following his eight-month reign, Mendes France led the Union of Democratic Forces against this man, who returned to power during the 1958 Algerian unrest before founding France's Fifth Republic.

[B4] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 1944, this man allegedly walked down the central aisle of Notre Dame while being shot at by snipers before a planned performance of a Te Deum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    However, since this man only led the Provisional Government of the French Republic and was not a legitimate head of state, this man was honored with a Magnificat instead.
  Part 2 (ans: Matins [prompt on vigil]):
    Though the Te Deum is often used as a celebratory piece, the hymn was traditionally sung at the end of this canonical hour on all days the Gloria was said at Mass. After the Second Vatican Council, this hour became known as the "Office of Readings."

[B5] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This politician names the Ottawa headquarters of the Canadian Department of Global Affairs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lester Bowles Pearson):
    Name this former Prime Minister of Canada. After this politician suggested that American forces cease bombing North Vietnam in a Philadelphia speech, Lyndon B. Johnson grabbed him by his lapels and shouted "Don't you come into my living room and piss on my rug."
  Part 2 (ans: Suez Crisis):
    Pearson won a Nobel Peace Prize for his role in mediating the resolution of this event. Anthony Eden resigned in the aftermath of this event, in which Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized a certain Egyptian waterway.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    This foreign politician angered Pearson by declaring "Long live Free Quebec" in Montreal during Expo 67.

[B6] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Riots sparked by resentment over police brutality took place on a night named for these structures, which were employed by students who forced George Pompidou to reopen the Sorbonne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: barricades [or Day of the Barricades or La Journee des Barricades or Night of the Barricades or La Nuit des Barricades]):
    Identify these structures. Their first major appearance in Parisian history occurred on a namesake "day" in 1588 during an outbreak of mass protest against Henry III.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    The "Night of the Barricades" and the May 1968 protests were a reaction to the conservative policies of this French President who had risen to fame as leader of Free France during World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: Duke of Guise ("gheez") (Henry of Guise led the Catholic League.)):
    The "Day of the Barricades" was coordinated by a holder of this title in concert with ambassadors from Philip III of Spain. Several months later, Henry III had that holder of this title and his brother, a cardinal named Louis, murdered at the Chateau de Blois.

[B7] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Though this treaty laid out provisions for amnesty, thousands of harkis were murdered in its wake. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Evian Accords):
    Name this agreement between France and the FLN that granted independence to Algeria. It was fiercely opposed by the OAS.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle):
    The Algerian War brought down the Fourth Republic and led to this man's election as President. Though he had led Free France during World War II, he was the target of assassination attempts by French soldiers in the OAS.
  Part 3 (ans: Mers El Kebir):
    De Gaulle sought to maintain French control over this naval base near Oran, which included underground facilities for atomic testing. It was the site of a controversial World War II British attack on the Vichy French fleet.

[B8] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The earliest modern-day beauty contest was held in this town in 1888. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spa, Belgium):
    Name this town near Liege that lent its name to a common English word. It hosted a conference that invited German delegates to discuss reparations for World War I.
  Part 2 (ans: Vichy [or Vichei]):
    This other spa town was established as the seat of government of a regime headed by Philippe Petain that collaborated with the Nazis during World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles de Gaulle [or Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle]):
    This head of state fled to the spa town of Baden-Baden in response to growing leftist protests in May 1968. Upon his return, he announced an election in which his party, the UDR, gained its country's first-ever absolute majority in Parliament.

[B9] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This term was coined by then-French Minister of Finance Valery Giscard d'Estaing (vah-lay-REE zhees-CAR day-STAN). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: exorbitant privilege):
    Give this two-word English phrase that refers to the supposed advantage that the United States has due to its own currency, the dollar, being the international reserve currency.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    The phrase is frequently attributed to this President of France at the time, a former World War II hero who led France for almost all of the 1960s.
  Part 3 (ans: a rail line [or train; or railroad; prompt on more general answers]):
    When Giscard d'Estaing became President himself, he backed the project to create the TGV (tay-jay-vay), which is one of these things. The TGV has expanded its network and enjoyed massive commercial success.

[B10] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about speeches given on June 18, 1940, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle):
    This man delivered the "Appeal of 18 June" speech the day after France's capitulation to Germany, in which he asserted that "France is not alone" and urged the French to resist the German occupation.
  Part 2 (ans: "this was their finest hour"):
    On the same day that the Appeal of 18 June speech was given, this speech was delivered by Winston Churchill. Its title comes from its last sentence, which imagines what men will say "if the British Empire and its Commonwealth last for a thousand years".
  Part 3 (ans: "perverted science"):
    The "finest hour" speech warned that if Britain was subjugated by Germany, then "the whole world... will sink into the abyss of a new dark age made more sinister, and perhaps more protracted, by the lights of" this two-word phrase.

[B11] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This officer criticized the French military for building the Maginot Line instead of developing a professional armored force in his treatise The Army of the Future. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles de Gaulle [Charles Andre Joseph Marie de Gaulle]):
    Name this man who rose to prominence during World War II as leader of the Free French.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Darlan [Jean Louis Xavier Francois Darlan]):
    This collaborationist and Admiral of the Fleet defected from the Vichy regime, but was assassinated before he could take control of French forces in North Africa.

[B12] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This movement may have been catalyzed by Molotov cocktails thrown by agents provocateurs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: May 1968 events [prompt on partial answers]):
    What month of anarchic events in France began with student protests at the Sorbonne and forced the president to flee the country?
  Part 2 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    This leader of the Free French during World War II had to flee the country during the May 1968 events. Somewhat ironically, this man had come to power during the May 1958 crisis, amid the Algerian War of Independence.
  Part 3 (ans: the Fifth Republic [or five]):
    De Gaulle was the first president of the French republic of this number.

[B13] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The speaker of these words told a friend "They will hear me over there, it will make waves!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Vive le Quebec libre!" [accept "Long live free Quebec!"]):
    Identify this controversial four-word phrase spoken at Expo 67. It was seen by many as a statement in support of a radical separatist movement.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    The phrase "Vive le Quebec libre" was uttered during a visit to Montreal by this President of France, who had previously led the Free French Forces during WWII, and came out of retirement to found the Fifth Republic.
  Part 3 (ans: War Measures Act):
    Three years after the expo, the FLQ took De Gaulle's message to an extreme and kidnapped British trade commissioner James Cross. Pierre Trudeau responded by invoking this controversial statute, allowing the government to suspend certain civil liberties and detain civilians.

[B14] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man was President of France from 1974 to 1981, and was succeeded by Mitterrand. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing [accept either underlined part; accept VGE]):
    Name this man who embarrassingly received diamonds from Bokassa I. This man, who lowered the voting age to 18, had a subordinate who labeled his pro-European stance as siding with "foreigners" in the Call of Cochin.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacques Chirac):
    That subordinate of Giscard, who was instrumental in Giscard's election, was this man who was President of France from 1995 to 2007. He also spoke against the US invasion of Iraq.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    Giscard publicly advocated voting "no" on a referendum by this man to reform the Senate, which helped bring about this man's resignation. He had earlier founded the Fifth Republic and in World War II, he led the Free French.

[B15] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: In this year, General Jacques Massu created the Committee of Civil and Army Public Security. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1958 [prompt on '58]):
    Name this year in which Raoul Salan and other generals took over Algiers for the French Army, thus leading to the May Crisis in the Fourth Republic and the toppling of the government of Pierre Pflimlin.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles [Andre Joseph Marie] de Gaulle):
    1958 marked the end of the "crossing of the desert" of this French politician, who became president again after over a decade of political retirement. He led the Free French during World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois [Maurice Adrien Marie] Mitterrand):
    This French politician railed against the de Gaullist tendencies of the Fifth Republic's constitution as a "permanent coup d'etat." He overcame rumors that he faked an assassination attempt on his own life in the "Observatory Affair" to become a left-wing electoral antagonist to de Gaulle in the 1965 elections.
