=== STOCK CLUES: Solzhenitsyn ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 19 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 23 found, 69 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the first circle of the Inferno [or Limbo; or equivalents of the first circle of Hell; or first or one after "circle" is mentioned; or In the First Circle or V kruge pervom; prompt on Inferno or Hell; do not accept "Purgatory"] [The first line refers to Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's novel The First Circle.]
  - This specific location titles a novel in which practitioners of "phonoscopy" compare spectographs of a recorded phone call in a sharashka, leading to the arrest of the diplomat Innokenty Volodin.
  - In this place, a "sweet brook" and seven walls surround a Castle that the narrator travels through in the company of five other great poets right after the first of several swoons.
  - In a meadow in this place, Saladin sits away from everyone else, while naturalists such as Avicenna and Averroes join a group thronged about Aristotle, as told in the fourth canto of the Divine Comedy.
  - Virgil describes how Abraham and King David were taken out of this circle during the Harrowing of Hell.
  - For 10 points, name this circle of Dante's Inferno inhabited by the unbaptized and the virtuous pagans, which the poet enters immediately after the vestibule. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
  - This author designated his stories about two contrasting characters or settings as "binaries," including "Fracture Points" from his collection Apricot Jam. [PWR]
  - The title character of a story by this author gives Kira the timber from her dwelling, which is collected by drunken farmers using a stolen tractor. [PWR]
  - This author of (*) "Matryona's Place" wrote a novella in which Alyoshka the Baptist maintains his faith despite the harsh conditions faced by the zeks of gang 104.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of Ivan Denisovich. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 SHEIKH (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn
  - This man discussed the West's decline to its present sickness as it turned away from God and lost its civil courage in a speech that opens by discussing a "world split apart." This man advocated for the creation of a unified Rus' state featuring strong local governments and encompassing Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, and Slavic parts of Kazakhstan in his book Rebuilding Russia.
  - In 1989, Novy Mir finally published in three parts a book written by this giver of the 1978 Harvard commencement address; that book was based on the (*) testimony of 227 men. [PWR]
  - This man used his experience in a research and development bureau called a sharaksha as the basis of his novel In the First Circle.
  - A nonfiction work by this author describes the show trial and imprisonment of a typical zek.
  - For 10 points, name this Soviet author of The Gulag Archipelago. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
  - This author composed the entirety of his long poem Dorozhenka before writing any of it down. [PWR]
  - Another of his poems was allegedly written on soap to aid memorization and famously claims "A girl's been turned into a woman / A woman turned into a corpse." This author of ($) "Prussian Nights" wrote a play in which Mereshcun's affair with Lyuba is discovered by Nemov, one of the title characters of The Love-Girl and the Innocent. [PWR]
  - Colonel Vorontsev is the protagonist of this author's novel (*) August 1914, but this author is more famous for a work in which it is revealed that the deaf Senka had survived Buchenwald. [PWR]
  - That work sees the protagonist help Pavlo acquire extra gruel for the 104th squad.
  - For ten points, identify this author who wrote about zeks in The Gulag Archipelago and One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel, set in the year 2028, begins and ends with the protagonist dreaming of a white stallion, except by the end it has run farther away from him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Day of the Oprichnik [or Den' oprichnika]):
    Name this novel by Vladimir Sorokin which explores the strange life of Andrei Komiaga in the newly reestablished Tsardom of Russia.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [or Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    Despite Sorokin's hatred for this author, the title and twenty four hour structure of Day of the Oprichnik was inspired by this Soviet author's novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 3 (ans: We [or My]):
    Just as the "Great Russian Wall" isolates Russia in Day of the Oprichnik, the Green Wall isolates the One State from the outside world in this 1920s dystopian novel by Yevgeny Zamyatin.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel set after the death of Stalin, Aleksei Shulubin [alek-see shoo-luh-ben] is one of the patients treated by the doctor Vera and the nurse Zoya. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cancer Ward [or Rakovy Korpus]):
    Name this novel, whose protagonist, Oleg Kostoglotov [kohs-tohg-loh-tov], visits a zoo and reads about a monkey being blinded by an evil man after leaving his "perpetual exile" in the title hospital in Uzbekistan.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [sol-zen-eet-sen] [or Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    Cancer Ward was inspired by this Soviet author's experience with cancer. This dissident wrote about the gulag in One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich and waited four years to receive his Nobel Prize in Literature.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Ernaux [Ur-no] [or Annie Therese Blanche Ernaux; or Annie Duchesne]):
    This other author wrote about their experience with cancer in a book titled The Uses of Photography. While living in Cergy, this writer recalls hearing someone shout that Stalin had died in The Years.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Sergey Zalygin was the first non-Communist editor-in-chief of this journal, which made increasingly bold dissident statements in the 1980s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Novy Mir [or New World]):
    Name this Russian literary journal, whose editor Aleksandr Tvardovsky fought to preserve its independence prior to his dismissal in 1970.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    In 1962, Novy Mir gained fame for publishing this author's novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich. This author also wrote The Gulag Archipelago.
  Part 3 (ans: John Donne):
    Joseph Brodsky, whose poem set on "the -eenth of Marchember" was published in Novy Mir with no mention of his Nobel Prize, wrote a noted elegy for this English poet. That elegy describes how this author of "The Relic" and "The Triple Fool" has "sunk in sleep."

[B4] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Before he is sent to one of these places, Leo Auberg meets men called the Swallow, the Fir, the Ear, and the Thread in Alder Park. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gulags [or Soviet labor camps or Soviet prison camps; accept The Gulag Archipelago]):
    Name this type of location that titles a book dedicated "to all those who did not live to tell it." A man living in one of these places builds a wall for the Power Station and is roommates with Alyosha the Baptist.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr (Isayevich) Solzhenitsyn):
    This author related the experiences of 227 survivors in The Gulag Archipelago. Alyosha lives with Shukhov in this author's One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 3 (ans: Muller [accept (Johann Ludwig) Wilhelm Muller or Herta Muller] (The prose poem is The Hunger Angel.)):
    A Gulag Archipelago epigraph by a poet with this surname notes, "How heavy are the stones themselves." Leo Auberg is sent to a gulag in a prose poem by an author with this surname who wrote The Land of Green Plums.

[B5] 2021 ACF Nationals Qualifier (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this story is shocked that a Condemned Man about to be punished was never informed that he has been condemned. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "In the Penal Colony" [or "In the Penal Settlement" or "In der Strafkolonie"]):
    Name this short story by Franz Kafka in which the Officer eagerly shows the Traveller a machine that carves the text of a law into the body of anyone condemned for breaking that law.
  Part 2 (ans: mock execution [accept equivalents that mention a fake execution or pretending to execute someone; prompt on things involving a firing squad]):
    Before being sent to labor camps in a penal colony, Dostoevsky and other members of the Petrashevsky Circle were subjected to this psychological ploy, meant to instill gratitude towards the tsar.
  Part 3 (ans: Aleksandr (Isayevich) Solzhenitsyn):
    This Soviet author wrote about labor camps in his non-fiction work The Gulag Archipelago and his novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.

[B6] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In his Nobel lecture, this writer relayed the "harsh national experience" of his country with the following proverb: "ONE WORD OF TRUTH SHALL OUTWEIGH THE WHOLE WORLD." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [or Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    Identify this Russian author whose essay Two Hundred Years Together was panned as anti-Semitic. He drew on his experience working in a "Special Camp" in Kazakhstan to write One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 2 (ans: August 1914 [or Август 1914]):
    Solzhenitsyn ("sol-zhuh-NEET-sin") faced renewed accusations of anti-Semitism when H. T. Willetts'translation of this novel came out in 1984. This novel, which follows Vorotyntsev, was described as "swollen and misshapen" by Irving Howe.
  Part 3 (ans: Oleg Kostoglotov [accept either name]):
    Though Irving Howe derided August 1914 as the "self-immolation of a once major writer," he looked favorably upon Solzhenitsyn's Cancer Ward, which follows this character's admission to a hospital in Kazakhstan.

[B7] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: V. S. Naipaul's work of this type, which opens and closes with a quote from Proust's Against Sainte-Beuve, is titled "Two Worlds." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nobel Prize lectures [or Nobel Prize acceptance speeches]):
    Identify this type of work. Yasunari Kawabata's work of this type opens by analyzing five Dogen poems before discussing Japanese aesthetics, and is titled "Japan, the Beautiful, and Myself."
  Part 2 (ans: Wole Soyinka):
    This author gave a lecture titled "This Past Must Address its Present" after becoming the first African to win the Nobel in Literature. This author wrote a memoir of imprisonment titled The Man Died.
  Part 3 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn):
    This Russian never got to deliver a Nobel lecture, since the Swedish government refused to accommodate him and allow him to lecture at its Moscow embassy. He wrote The Gulag Archipelago.

[B8] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Siberian prisons in Russian literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Resurrection [or Voskreseniye] [by Leo Tolstoy]):
    Katyusha Maslova is sentenced to prison in Siberia for allegedly poisoning one of her clients in this novel, which follows her former employer Dmitri Nekhlyudov (nek-L'YOO-doff) and his encounters with other inmates.
  Part 2 (ans: The Gulag Archipelago [or Arkhipelag GULAG] [by Alexander Solzhenitsyn]):
    Boris Viktorovich Savinkov's supposed suicide after being spared a death sentence is one of the stories told in this book, which is based on 227 different testimonies.
  Part 3 (ans: Fyodor Dostoyevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky]):
    Several of this author's novels involve characters being sentenced to hard labor in Siberia, such as Rogozhin in The Idiot and Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment.

[B9] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about amputated legs in Russian literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Omon Ra):
    In this novel by Victor Pelevin, the title character narrowly avoids having his legs amputated at a flight school. This novel's title character is trained for a suicide mission to the Moon, where he will man a supposedly unmanned moonwalker.
  Part 2 (ans: Dead Souls [or Myortvyjye Dushi]):
    Chichikov is nonsensically suspected of being the double-amputee Captain Kopeikin in this novel by Nikolai Gogol.
  Part 3 (ans: Cancer Ward [or Rakovy Korpus; by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn]):
    The teenager Dyomka eventually decides to have his leg amputated in this novel. It ends with the protagonist writing letters to Dyomka and his love interests Zoya and Vera Gangart.

[B10] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author claimed that Shakespeare's worst villains, such as Macbeth and Iago, were "little lamb[s]" whose "imagination...stopped short at a dozen corpses. Because they had no ideology." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn):
    Name this author, who criticized the Soviets' ideology in The Gulag Archipelago, and depicted gulag life in One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Herta Muller):
    This Romanian-born novelist wrote about Germans in Romania being deported to the gulags in her novel The Hunger Angel. This author also wrote about four friends reading Lola's diary in The Land of Green Plums.
  Part 3 (ans: The House of the Dead):
    Although not about gulags, this Dostoevsky novel is based on his imprisonment in the earlier katorga labor camps. In it, the aristocratic Alexander Goryanchikov tries to adapt to life in the barracks.

[B11] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author turned his experiences marching with the Red Army into the long poem Prussian Nights. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn):
    Name this author who exposed the conditions in labor camps in The Gulag Archipelago and wrote the novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Cancer Ward):
    In this Solzhenitsyn novel, Oleg Kostoglotov has romances with Zoya and Vera Gangart in the hospital where he is being treated.
  Part 3 (ans: a zoo):
    On the day he leaves the hospital, Kostoglotov visits one of these places, where he sees a sign about the "senseless cruelty" of an "evil man."

[B12] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about cancer in European literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksandr (Isayevich) Solzhenitsyn):
    While exiled in Kazakhstan, Oleg Kostoglotov has affairs with the nurse Zoya and the doctor Vera Gangart in Cancer Ward, a novel by this Russian author of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Amelie Nothomb):
    A fictional form of cartilage cancer called "Elzenveiverplatz syndrome" affects the misogynist novelist Pretextat Tach in Hygiene and the Assassin, a novel by this Belgian writer who also wrote Fear and Trembling.
  Part 3 (ans: Gunter (Wilhelm) Grass):
    The narrator meditates on the real-life death of Nicolas Born from cancer while telling the story of Harm and Dorte Peters in this author's novel Headbirths. He wrote one chapter for each year of the 20th century in his book My Century.

[B13] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The novel August 1914 and the historical volume Two Hundred Years Together are among the works by this author that have drawn criticism for their possible anti-Semitism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [or Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    Name this Russian author who Elie Wiesel called "too intelligent" to be an anti-Semite. Oleg Kostoglotov is exiled to a hospital in Central Asia in his novel Cancer Ward.
  Part 2 (ans: One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich [or Odin den' Ivana Denisovicha]):
    The protagonist of this Solzhenitsyn novella is a member of Gang 104, a squad of laborers in a Soviet prison camp. Its protagonist works to curry favor with Tiurin and shares in Caesar's packages of food.
  Part 3 (ans: The Red Wheel):
    The aforementioned August 1914 is the first "knot," or volume, of this cycle about the transition from Imperial Russia to the Soviet Union.

[B14] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Cecil Parrott included a map in his translation of a chapter charting the "Anabasis" of the title character of this novel, who abets the chaplain Otto Katz's love of booze. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Good Soldier Svejk [or The Good Soldier Schweik; or The Fateful Adventures of the Good Soldier Svejk During the World War; or Osudy dobreho vojaka Svejka za svetove valky]):
    Name this darkly comic novel about a dog trader roped into fighting in the First World War, which was written by Jaroslav Hasek.
  Part 2 (ans: All Quiet on the Western Front):
    This other World War I novel concerns the enlistment of Paul Baumer and his schoolmates. It was written by Erich Maria Remarque.
  Part 3 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [or Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    A Russian perspective on the war is provided by this author's novel August 1914. He is better known for a novel in which the radiotherapist Vera Gangart and the nurse Zoya stave off the advances of the infirm Oleg Kostoglotov.

[B15] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novella smuggles a piece of a hacksaw blade back into camp to mend his shoes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich [or Odin den' Ivana Denisovicha]):
    Name this novella about a prisoner in a Siberian labor camp who finds himself "almost happy" when he manages to obtain some tobacco and extra food.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn):
    This author of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich also wrote about the Red Army in the poem "Prussian Nights" and about Oleg Kostoglotov in the novel Cancer Ward.
  Part 3 (ans: The First Circle [or In the First Circle; or V kruge pervom]):
    Sologdin is a brilliant mathematician who ultimately betrays his integrity for freedom in this Solzhenitsyn novel in which Gleb Nerzhin befriends the staunch Communist Lev Rubin.

[B16] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about ostensible European literary plagiarism, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Solzhenitsyn [or Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    This author of Cancer Ward and The Gulag Archipelago was a leading voice in incorrectly accusing Mikhail Sholokhov of having plagiarized And Quiet Flows the Don.
  Part 2 (ans: A Tomb for Boris Davidovich [or The Tomb of Boris Davidovich; or Grobnica za Borisa Davidovica]):
    The 1978 book The Anatomy Lesson was a savage response to critics who had accused its author, Danilo Kis, of plagiarizing Borges and Joyce in this collection of vignettes about Stalinist Yugoslavia.
  Part 3 (ans: Victorien Sardou):
    This Frenchman won a plagiarism case involving his play L'Oncle Sam by proving that he had actually plagiarized from things not written by the plaintiffs. He also wrote La Tosca and a series of plays for Sarah Bernhardt, including Fedora.

[B17] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A chapter in this work entitled "The White Kitten" relates the story of Georgi Tenno, who escapes from the title location only to be recaptured after he refuses to kill innocent villagers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Gulag Archipelago):
    Name this work that is comprised of experiences of 227 different people in the Soviet political prison system.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Solzhenitsyn):
    This man was the author of The Gulag Archipelago. He spent 10 years in the gulags, and lived in exile in the United States until he returned to Russia after the fall of the USSR.
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan Bunin):
    Author Varlam Shalamov was sent to a gulag after he praised the works of this author, which include the novel The Village and the short story "The Gentleman from San Francisco."

[B18] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Eastern European writers who wrote about characters who become soldiers in the Russian army, and then leave, but end up re-joining anyway because of mistaken identity involving Germans.
  Part 1 (ans: Arnold Zweig [Prompt on "(A.) Zweig"]):
    That happens to poor Sergeant Grischa, who is eventually captured by Germans in this writer's The Case of Sergeant Grischa, the first volume of his hexology The Great War of White Men. His brother Stefan wrote The Royal Game.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir [Nikolayevich] Voinovich):
    This writer's Private Ivan Chonkin deserts the army when he gets confused, but after becoming a peasant, the NKVD confuses him for a German spy, leading him to arrest the NKVD officers and earn comical praise from General Drynov.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander [Iseyevich] Solzhenitsyn):
    The real-life figure of Otto Irbe, who joins the Red Army, then leaves and becomes a German legionnaire before the Russians capture him and mistakenly send him to the gulags is one of numerous people who inspired this writer's The Gulag Archipelago.

[B19] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Alternate versions of this, such as magnitizdat, were performed through media such as mimeograph or tape recorder. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samizdat):
    Name this process in which Soviet citizens manually reproduced and distribute censored items.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Solzhenitsyn):
    This author's works were often distributed through samizdat. His The Gulag Archipelago was published in France after arriving there through samizdat.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrei Zhdanov):
    This politician was appointed as director of culture in 1946 by Stalin and was responsible for banning works by artists such as Anna Akhmatova. His namesake decree divided the world into the Imperialistic and Democratic.

[B20] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel sews bread into his mattress and is sent off to work after only registering a temperature of ninety-nine degrees after visiting with the nurse Vdovushkin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich):
    Name this novel centering on a man's experiences in a labor camp as a member of Squad 104.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Solzhenitsyn):
    One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich was written by this Russian author, who described the history of Russia's forced labor camps in The Gulag Archipelago.
  Part 3 (ans: The Red Wheel):
    Solzhenitsyn wrote this four-book cycle of novels that traced the history of Imperial Russia through the beginnings of the Soviet Union. It includes August 1914 and November 1916.

[B21] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the main character comments that he's never met an Estonian he doesn't like. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich):
    Name this novel, which centers around the brutal working conditions for the zeks of the prison camp work gang 104, which includes Tyurin, Fetyukov, and the title narrator.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn):
    This Soviet author drew from his experiences as a prisoner to write One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich and The Gulag Archipelago. His denunciations of Stalinism led to his exile from the Soviet Union in 1974.
  Part 3 (ans: Novy Mir):
    One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich was published in this Russian literary magazine, which spread the work of banned authors like Joseph Brodsky. Its editor, Alexander Tvardovsky, wrote a special preface for the book.

[B22] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel begins with Volodin calling the American embassy under an NKVD wiretap, which eventually leads to his arrest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: In The First Circle [or V kruge pervom]):
    Name this novel set during December 24 to 28, 1949 in an "Institute," whose main characters include Nerzhin, Rubin, and other prisoners of relatively high status, such as technicians and scientists.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn):
    This Russian author described a bunch of prisoners in far worse shape than those in The First Circle in his novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 3 (ans: Cancer Ward [or Rakovy Korpus]):
    This novel by Solzhenitsyn is set in Kazakhstan, where patients in the title location, such as the main character Oleg Kostoglotov, receive therapy.

[B23] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was stripped of his Soviet citizenship in 1979 for publishing the journal Metropol. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vasily Aksyonov):
    Name this Russian novelist of Generations of Winter and The Burn. His mother Eugenia Ginzburg wrote about her experiences in a Stalinist gulag in her memoir Journey into the Whirlwind.
  Part 2 (ans: samizdat):
    Aksyonov's journal Metropol was an example of this type of literature, which was published and circulated in secret because of Soviet censorship. Its name comes from the Russian words meaning "self" and "publish."
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Solzhenitsyn):
    This author circulated many of his books as samizdat, including The First Circle, The Gulag Archipelago, and One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
