=== STOCK CLUES: The Real Inspector Hound ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 MUSES II (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Real Inspector Hound
  - During a card game in this play, characters who say things like "I huff," "I ruff," and "I bluff" are beaten by a man after he yells "Bingo!" After being offered chocolate, one character in this play is upset to learn that there aren't any "Chateau Neuf du Pape '55 cracknell" chocolates left in the box. [PWR]
  - Twice in this play, a character comes flying down a staircase "at about 15" miles per hour and knocks someone over. [PWR]
  - When one character discovers that the dead body that had been lying on stage for most of this play is (*) Higgs, he is immediately killed by an offstage gunshot. [PWR]
  - It is learned at the end of this play that the long since missing Albert is actually the wheelchair bound Magnus, who actually doesn't need to use a wheelchair and is in fact Puckeridge, who reveals himself to be the title character.
  - For 10 points, a whodunnit set in Muldoon Manor is watched by the critics Moon and Birdboot in what play written by Tom Stoppard? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A person with this title is often given the stage direction "cuts in massively" in a 1946 play in which the Birling family shares responsibility for a suicide that has not yet happened. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: inspector [accept Inspector Goole; accept An Inspector Calls; accept The Real Inspector Hound; prompt on detective; prompt on police; prompt on officer] (The Real Inspector Hound is by Tom Stoppard.)):
    A person with what title "calls" in a play by J. B. Priestley? While watching a play-within-a-play, the critic Moon assumes the role of a fraudulent character with this title.
  Part 2 (ans: time [accept unity of time; accept time plays]):
    An Inspector Calls is one of J. B. Priestley's plays inspired by J. W. Dunne's theories about this concept. Like ancient Greek drama, Patrick Hamilton's play Rope observes the unities of action, place, and this concept.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Richardson [or Sir Ralph David Richardson]):
    This Priestley collaborator originated Inspector Goole in the UK. This Shakespearian, who gave a celebrated performance as Falstaff in a 1945 Old Vic run, often acted with fellow knights Laurence Olivier and John Gielgud.

[B2] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This building is explicitly noted to be hemmed in by "desolate marshes and treacherous swamps," creating a set list of potential murderers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Muldoon Manor):
    Name this country estate served by the maid Mrs. Drudge, where Major Magnus and others try to find out who caused a corpse to appear on the floor.
  Part 2 (ans: The Real Inspector Hound):
    Muldoon Manor is the setting for the play-within-the-play in this Tom Stoppard comedy, in which Birdboot and Moon become involved in the mystery farce they are reviewing.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mousetrap):
    Muldoon Manor is a parody of Monkswell Manor, the location of this archetypal British stage mystery, which hit its 25,000th performance in 2012.

[B3] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This man dramatized the importance of the title musical genre in the Velvet Revolution in his 2006 play Rock 'n' Roll. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]):
    Name this playwright who retold the story of Hamlet from the perspective of two minor characters in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
  Part 2 (ans: The Real Inspector Hound):
    Two critics named Birdboot and Moon watch a murder mystery set at Muldoon Manor before becoming involved in the said mystery in this ironic play by Stoppard.
  Part 3 (ans: Arcadia):
    In this other Stoppard play, Hannah Jarvis and Bernard Nightingale investigate the past of Sidley Park, where Thomasina Coverly was tutored by Septimus Hodge in the 19th century.
