=== STOCK CLUES: The Coast of Utopia ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This series of plays, for which its author won the fourth of his five Tony Awards for Best Play, takes its title from a book by Avrahm Yarmolinsky. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Coast of Utopia trilogy):
    Name this series featuring 19th century Russian intellectual figures such as Alexander Herzen and Ivan Turgenev which is made up of the plays Voyage, Shipwreck, and Salvage.
  Part 2 (ans: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]):
    The Coast of Utopia trilogy was written by this Czech-born British playwright of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.
  Part 3 (ans: Travesties):
    Vladimir Lenin appears in this Stoppard play in which Henry Carr reminiscences about his encounters with figures like James Joyce and Tristan Tzara while living in Zurich in 1917.

[B2] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A scene in Crime and Punishment in which Raskolnikov tries to stop the flogging of a horse bears a striking resemblance to a common anecdote about this thinker in Turin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederich Nietzsche):
    Name this thinker, whose relationship to Dostoevsky is the subject of a book-length study by Lev Shestov. Crime and Punishment is frequently read in contrast to the idea of the ubermensch presented in his book Thus Spake Zarathustra.
  Part 2 (ans: the Underground Man [or descriptions such as the narrator / protagonist of Notes from Underground / Notes from the Underground / Letters from the Underworld]):
    Note to players: Description acceptable Time in the philosophical circle of Vissarion Belinsky inspired this Dostoevsky character, who objects to Nikolai Chernyshevsky's "Crystal Palace" metaphor. This man also rails against the unchangeable reality of the equation "2 plus 2 equals 4."
  Part 3 (ans: The Coast of Utopia (by Tom Stoppard)):
    Belinsky appears in Voyage and Shipwreck, two parts of this 2002 trilogy of plays whose principal characters are Russian thinkers such as Mikhail Bakunin and Alexander Herzen.

[B3] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The plot of one of this author's plays involves the affair between Annie and the author Henry, who writes a play-within-a-play performed by Max and Charlotte in the first act. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]):
    Name this playwright of The Real Thing, Arcadia, and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
  Part 2 (ans: flipping a coin that lands heads up [also accept spin a coin or any reasonable synonym]):
    In Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead, the title characters perform this action ninety-two times. This action's strange results cause Guildenstern to wonder if the laws of probability are incorrect.
  Part 3 (ans: The Coast of Utopia):
    Alexander Herzen (HURT-zen), Ivan Turgenev, and Mikhail Bakunin (buh-KOO-nin) are all major characters in this nine-hour play cycle by Stoppard. Its three parts are titled Voyage, Shipwreck, and Salvage.

[B4] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This work's sixth chapter is titled "Omnia mea mecum porto" and begins with the proclamation that "the old, official Europe that one can see is not asleep - it is dying!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: From the Other Shore or From Another Shore or S togo berega ):
    Identify this volume of essays dedicated to the author's son Sasha, a series of commentaries on the revolutions of 1848.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Ivanovich Herzen ):
    From the Other Shore is the best-known collection of writings by this Russian thinker, who also wrote a naturalistic novel whose title asks Who is to Blame? Probably everyone, really.
  Part 3 (ans: The Coast of Utopia):
    Alexander Herzen is a major character in this trilogy of Tom Stoppard plays about pre-revolutionary Russia comprising Voyage, Shipwreck, and Salvage.
