=== STOCK CLUES: Aurangzeb ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 38 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 44 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Aurangzeb [or Abul Muzaffar Muhy-ud-Din Muhammad Aurangzeb Alamgir; accept Alamgir I until "Fatawa-e-Alamgiri" is read]
  - This ruler was a brother of a prince who wrote a treatise comparing two religions called The Mingling of the Two Oceans.
  - It was not Timur, but following the Battle of Chamkaur, this ruler was the target of a Zafarnama proclaiming spiritual victory.
  - Farmans issued by this ruler banned syncretic customs such as Nowruz and jharokha darshan.
  - After winning a civil war, this ruler accused his brother Dara Shikoh of heresy and executed him.
  - For allegedly attempting to prevent the forced conversion of Hindus in Kashmir, this ruler executed Sikh Guru Tegh Bahadur.
  - This ruler issued a compendium of Hanafi jurisprudence called Fatawa-e-Alamgiri and reinstated the jizya tax on non-Muslims.
  - For 10 points, name this sixth Mughal emperor and successor of Shah Jahan, who undid most of Akbar's policy of religious tolerance. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Answer: Mughal Empire [observe the vowel rule; prompt on Mongol or Timurid with "descent from which was claimed to legitimate what later empire in a different region?", since the Mughals did claim to be simply continuing the Mongol and Timurid empires] (The first sentence describes Aurangzeb, Danishmend Khan, and Bernier, the second describes Sirhindi and his opening salvo in the otherwise un-mentioned wihdat al-wujud-wihdat al-shuhud debate, and the third sentence describes Dara Shikoh, who also wrote Mingling of the Two Oceans)
  - A ruler of this empire had his foreign minister commission translations of Descartes and Gassendi from a student of the latter. [PWR]
  - A thinker in this empire created one side in a key debate by declaring "do not say 'hama ust', say 'hama azust'" and founded a lineage that contained many conservative critics of colonial rule by redirecting the energy of the ʾAlfi movements. [PWR]
  - The translation (*) Jug-Basisht was overseen by a thinker from this empire who traveled with Nicolao Manucci.
  - Contemporaneous with European social contract theorists, the chief ideologue of this empire visited by the Francois Bernier posited that people give a sovereign absolute power to protect property and end fights over social and cultural differences to defend the sulh-i kul policy. [PWR]
  - Ahmad Sirhindi wrote under this empire, as did the author of (*) Mingling of the Two Oceans and Abu'l Fazl ibn Mubarak.
  - Clerics were disturbed by debates that a ruler of this empire held in the ʿIbadat Khana.
  - For 10 points, name this empire, a ruler of which was sometimes accused of starting a new ecumenical religion of Din-i Ilahi. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Aurangzeb [or Muhi-ud-din Muhammad; or Alamgir until "Fatawa-e-Alamgiri" is read]
  - This ruler's policies were opposed by Raja Ram, who defiled the grave of a previous ruler during his rebellion.
  - This ruler prosecuted the mystic Sarmad Kashani for repeatedly claiming "There is no God." This ruler ended a long-standing practice of addressing his subjects from an ornate balcony called a jharokha . [PWR]
  - A letter addressed to this ruler declares "I have no trust in your oaths anymore" and was written after its author escaped this ruler's forces at Chamkaur. [PWR]
  - This ruler built the Shahi Eidgah  in Mathura on the site of a previously existing temple in response to the (*) Jat Rebellion against him.
  - This ruler was denounced in an "epistle of victory," or Zafarnama, written by Gobind Singh.
  - This ruler compiled a strict law code known as the Fatawa-e-Alamgiri and executed Tegh Bahadur for his refusal to convert to Islam.
  - This ruler reinstated the jizya tax previously abolished by Akbar.
  - For 10 points, name this Mughal emperor who succeeded his father, Shah Jahan. [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Aurangzeb Alamgir
  - To atone for his violent rise to power over his siblings, this ruler married his son to his nephew's daughter, Salima Begum, and his daughters to his nephews, Sipihr Shikoh and Izid Bakhsh. [PWR]
  - Policy changes implemented by this ruler include the banning of the printing of the kalima on coins and discontinuation of the practice of jharokha darshan. [PWR]
  - This ruler's ascent to power was completed with his victory at the battle of (*) Samugarh.
  - This ruler exercised his religious intolerance by reinstating his empire's jizya tax and executing Tegh Bahadur for refusing to convert from Sikhism to Islam.
  - The chief military rival of the Marathan ruler Shivaji, for 10 points, name this predecessor of Bahadur Shah I and successor to Shah Jahan who ruled the Mughal Empire during its greatest extent. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Aurangzeb
  - This ruler ordered the compilation of the Fatawa-i Alamgiri, a Hanafi law code.
  - He was the main field commander at the Siege of Orccha, which won the Bundela War.
  - He greatly expanded his empire through the Ahom Campaign and a series of wars against the sultanates of the Deccan.
  - He also abandoned the Din-i Ilahi of a predecessor tutored by Bairam Khan when he re-established the jizya and implemented shari'a.
  - For 10 points, name this successor of Shah Jahan who resumed persecution of non-Muslims by the Mughal dynasty. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Aurangzeb [or Abul Muzaffar Muhy-ud-Din Muhammad Aurangzeb Alamgir; accept Alamgir I until his name is mentioned in the law code and prompt thereafter]
  - This man's first major battle was the Siege of Orchha in 1635, after which his father gave him a sword from which he took his regnal name.
  - He convinced his youngest brother, Murad Baksh, to stake claim to the throne, and ostensibly supported him against the forces of his eldest brother, whom he defeated at the Battle of Deorai.
  - This king's aforementioned brother was Dara Shikoh, and he created a code of Islamic law called the Fatawa-e-Alamgiri.
  - He reinstated the jizya tax on non-Muslims abolished by Akbar.
  - He killed Tegh Bahadur when the latter refused to convert to Islam, drawing the antagonism of that man's son, Gobind Singh, the last Sikh guru.
  - For 10 points, name this son of Shah Jahan, a Mughal emperor who brought the empire to its greatest extent. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler's uncle Moghul Khan supplied him with Mongol troops during the First Battle of Panipat, at which he defeated Ibrahim Lodi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Babur [or Mirza Zahir ud-Din Muhammad; or Firdaws Makani]):
    Name this emperor of Mongol origin, a descendant of Chagatai Khan, who founded the Mughal Empire.
  Part 2 (ans: Fergana Valley [or Farghana Valley]):
    Babur's Mongol ancestry stems from the ancestors of Qutlugh Nigar Khanum, who ruled over this region. This region's city of Osh was established over 3,000 years ago.
  Part 3 (ans: Aurangzeb [or Muhi-ud-din Muhammad]):
    The Mughals fought Mongol khanate-backed Tibetan forces at the Battle of Basgo during this leader's reign. This creator of the Fatawa-e-Alamgiri law code reinstated the jizya tax.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler's uncle Moghul Khan supplied him with Mongol troops during the First Battle of Panipat, at which he defeated Ibrahim Lodi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Babur [or Mirza Zahir ud-Din Muhammad; or Firdaws Makani]):
    Name this emperor of Mongol origin, a descendant of Chagatai Khan, who founded the Mughal Empire.
  Part 2 (ans: Borjigin clan [or Borjigid]):
    Babur's Mongol ancestry stems from the ancestors of his mother Qutlugh Nigar Khanum, who was part of this Mongol clan. This clan's members included the descendants of Genghis Khan.
  Part 3 (ans: Aurangzeb [or Muhi-ud-din Muhammad]):
    Though Mughal emperors were proud of their Mongol roots, the Mughals fought Mongol khanate-backed Tibetan forces at the Battle of Basgo during this leader's reign. This creator of the Fatawa-e-Alamgiri law code reinstated the jizya tax.

[B3] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Although the last Mughal Emperor was not deposed until 1857, the Empire's decline is often traced back to the death of this emperor, under whom the empire reached its greatest territorial extent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aurangzeb):
    Name this Mughal Emperor, who also reinstated the Jizya tax and imprisoned his father Shah Jahan.
  Part 2 (ans: Nawab):
    Aurangzeb's attempts to establish governors in newly conquered territories contributed to the rise of these largely independent rulers. Shuja-ud-Din Muhammad Khan was an especially powerful one of these rulers in Bengal.
  Part 3 (ans: Nader Shah):
    Mughal forces were decisively defeated by this Afsharid ruler at the battle of Karnal, after which this ruler sacked Delhi, carrying off twenty million rupees and the original Peacock Throne.

[B4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Mughal Prince Shah Shuja fled to this region after losing a succession conflict. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arakan [or Rakhine]):
    Name this region once ruled by the Kingdom of Mrauk U [myow oo]. The Mughal Empire recaptured the city of Chittagong from an alliance of the Portuguese and pirates from this region.
  Part 2 (ans: Burma [or Myanmar]):
    Despite intermittent invasions from Bengal, the Kingdom of Mrauk U survived until it was conquered by the ruling Konbaung dynasty in this modern-day country. The Rohingya have been persecuted in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Aurangzeb):
    Shaista Khan eventually conquered Chittagong from the Portuguese and Arakanese pirates while serving this emperor. This son of Shah Jahan expanded the Mughal Empire to its greatest extent.

[B5] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: According to legend, this king's army used a pet monitor lizard to reach a fort atop a steep cliff. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Shivaji ("shih-VAH-jee") Bhosle):
    Name this founder of the Maratha ("muh-RAH-tuh") confederacy who took a title meaning "umbrella-lord." With the Mughal general Jai ("jay") Singh, he signed the Treaty of Purandar ("poor-UN-duhr"), which made him a Mughal vassal.
  Part 2 (ans: Aurangzeb [or Alamgir]):
    Shivaji agreed to become a vassal of this Mughal emperor, who promptly placed Shivaji under house arrest at his court in Agra. This Mughal emperor reimposed the jizya, which had been previously abolished by Akbar.
  Part 3 (ans: Islam [or Muslims]):
    Shivaji was renowned for his tolerance towards this minority religion among his citizens. Akbar combined elements of Hinduism and this official religion of the Mughal Empire to develop the Din-i Ilahi.

[B6] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This empire was founded by Babur and ruled by leaders such as Akbar the Great. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mughal Empire (Or the Mogul Empire, or Gurkaniyan, or Mugliyah Saltanat)):
    Name this empire, that was initially ruled from Agra.
  Part 2 (ans: Shah Jahan (or Shahab-ud-din Muhammad Khurram)):
    The capital of the Mughal Empire was moved from Agra to Old Delhi by this fifth Mughal Emperor, who also built the Taj Mahal.
  Part 3 (ans: Aurangzeb (or Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad, or Alamgir)):
    Shah Jahan was put under house arrest in Agra Fort by this future Mughal Emperor. This Mughal emperor was crowned after the battle of Samugarh.

[B7] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about piracy in the Indian Ocean, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Madagascar):
    A pirate colony called Libertatia was founded on this large island, which was settled by migrants from Indonesia whose descendants comprise the Malagasy people.
  Part 2 (ans: Malacca [accept Strait of Malacca]):
    For defeating pirate Chen Zuyi, who raided ships entering the Indian Ocean, Zheng He ("jung huh") was honored with incense in this city. Seized by Portugal in 1511, this city controlled trade through a nearby waterway of the same name.
  Part 3 (ans: Aurangzeb Alamgir [or Muhi ud-Din Muhammad; prompt on Muhammad]):
    Tons of this ruler's treasure was stored on the armed ship Ganj-i-Sawai, which was captured by pirate Henry Avery in an incident that almost dragged the British East India Company into war.

[B8] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about modern Pakistani fiction and history:
  Part 1 (ans: Aurangzeb):
    Moth Smoke , the debut novel of Moshin Hamid, contains an allegory concerning this historical figure's trial of Dara Shikoh. He was the successor of Shah Jahan.
  Part 2 (ans: plane crash [or equivalents]):
    Mohammad Hanif's novel A Case of Exploding Mangoes centers on this type of event that killed Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq in 1998.

[B9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This monarch ordered the execution of Sarmad Karshai, a Sufi poet from Iran who befriended this monarch's brother Dara Shikoh and was accused of omitting "but God" from the kalima. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aurangzeb Alamgir [accept either underlined part]):
    Name this monarch, a conservative ruler of the Mughal Empire who ordered the execution of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the reinstatement of the jizya tax, and the destruction of many Hindu temples during his reign.
  Part 2 (ans: Akbar the Great):
    The jizya tax had previously been abolished by this great Mughal emperor and grandson of Babur, whose court included the talented Nine Jewels.
  Part 3 (ans: Ibadat Khana [or House of Worship; or House of Prayer]):
    In contrast to Aurangzeb's intolerant religious policy, Akbar constructed this building in Fatehpur Sikri where debates were held between leaders of different religions.

[B10] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man brought a concealed dagger, a tiger claw and a suit of armour to a sword duel with Afzal Khan, and escaped from captivity dressed as a sweet carrier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Shivaji):
    Name this founder and first Chhatrapati [Ch'hat-ruh-puhti] of the Maratha Confederacy, who carved a realm out in the areas around Bijapur.
  Part 2 (ans: Aurangzeb):
    Shivaji fought primarily against the forces of this Mughal Emperor, during whose reign the empire reached its maximum territorial extent and who abandoned the Pluralist policies of his father Shah Jahan.
  Part 3 (ans: Sharia):
    Aurangzeb oversaw the creation of the Fatawa-e-Alamgiri by almost 500 jurists from across the Muslim world. It was a central text in the Hanafi school of this wide reaching law code of Islam.

[B11] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Some historians argue that a man from this region, Kanji Malam, guided Vasco da Gama to India, which isn't totally implausible since tons of people from here settled in Zanzibar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gujarat):
    Identify this region of India, home to prominent commercial communities like the Menon Muslims and Mohandas Gandhi's family. Its largest city was known as the "Gate of Mecca" because of its prominence in the silk and diamond trade.
  Part 2 (ans: Mughal empire):
    Gujarat managed to stay an independent sultanate until it was conquered by this Islamic empire founded by Babur, which came to control most of India.
  Part 3 (ans: Aurangzeb):
    Gujarat fell into chaos after the death of this Mughal emperor in 1707. This emperor, known as "Alamgir" or "world-seizer" for bringing the empire to its greatest extent, reinstituted the jizya tax on non-Muslims.

[B12] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Despite the death of Sambhaji during a war between these two empires, one side kept fighting under Rajaram and Tarabai. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mughal Empire and Maratha Confederacy [need both]):
    What two empires fought a bloody war that began when one side invaded Bijapur? Near the end of the war, one side crossed the Narmada River to defeat the other, which began to fracture into smaller states.
  Part 2 (ans: Aurangzeb Alamgir [or Abdul Muzaffar Muhi-ud-Din Muhammad Aurangzeb]):
    During most of the Mughal/Maratha War, the Mughals were led by this son of Shah Jahan, who confined his father in the Agra Fort and expanded the empire to its greatest size.
  Part 3 (ans: Jinji Fort):
    During the war, the Mughals spent almost eight years trying to siege this Maratha controlled fort that finally fell in January 1698. Zulfiqar Ali Khan finally took this fort after recruiting European gunners as mercenaries.

[B13] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A chronicle of this man's reign, describing such events as his pardoning his rebellious half-brother Mirza Hakim, was written by Abul Fazl, one of the "nine jewels" of his court. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Akbar the Great):
    Name this great Mughal emperor who built a new capital at Fatehpur Sikri, where he invited religious scholars to debate and established the syncretic Din-i-Ilahi faith.
  Part 2 (ans: jizya tax):
    Akbar placated Hindus by abolishing this onerous tax on non-Muslims.
  Part 3 (ans: Aurangzeb):
    The jizya tax was brought back by this son of Shah Jahan, a militant ruler who beheaded the Maratha emperor Sambhaji, and warred for the throne with his brothers Shah Shuja and Dara Shikoh.

[B14] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler had a legendary love affair with the slave girl Anarkali. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jahangir):
    Identify this ruler, whose tolerance and welcoming of religious debate led Sir Thomas Roe to label him an atheist. He attempted to forge an alliance with the Ottomans against Abbas I.
  Part 2 (ans: Aurangzeb Alamgir):
    This less tolerant ruler of the same empire reinstated the jizya tax on his subjects and also intolerantly executed Guru Tegh Bahadur. He was called "Alamgir" or "world-seizer" for his widespread conquests.
  Part 3 (ans: Mughal empire):
    Both Jahangir and Aurangzeb were rulers of this Indian empire founded by Babur.

[B15] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This leader demonstrated great military prowess but his successes overextended the Mughal Empire and placed a hardship on the peasants to fund his exploits. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aurangzeb):
    Name this successor to Shah Jahan whose fight with the Marathas culminated with the execution of Shivaji's son Sambahji. This Mughal emperor also reinstated the jizya head tax on non-Muslim subjects.
  Part 2 (ans: Bahadur Shah I [or Mu'azzam; prompt "Bahadur Shah"]):
    Following the death of his father Aurangzeb, this Mughal emperor killed his brothers and usurped the throne. This leader issued an edict to crush the Sikhs but his empire lost Punjab to Banda Singh.
  Part 3 (ans: zamindari [or zemindari]):
    Upon coming to power in Punjab, Banda Singh eliminated this class of aristocratic, tax collecting land-owners who held feudalistic dominion over the peasant class
