=== STOCK CLUES: Pieter Bruegel ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 67 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
  - Birds and smoke from a painting by this artist begin to move in the first shot of Abbas Kiarostami's posthumous film 24 Frames.
  - A painting by this artist returns to the subject of a drawing in which a large fish disgorges smaller fish that in turn disgorge even smaller fish.
  - This artist's craggy "world landscapes" in the style of Joachim Patinir  include his Parable of the Sower and a Flight Into Egypt held at London's Courtauld Gallery.
  - A roof is tiled with tarts in a dense, zany painting by this artist that illustrates idioms like "biting the column." This artist's Months of the Year series includes a winter landscape in which foreground figures carry just a single fox.
  - For 10 points, what Flemish artist depicted peasants in genre paintings like Netherlandish Proverbs and The Hunters in the Snow? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [or Pieter Brueghel the Elder; accept Pieter Bruegel and the Art of Laughter; reject "Pieter Brueghel the Younger" or other Brueghels]
  - A 2006 book by Walter Gibson discusses how this artist's paintings illustrate "the Art of Laughter." Several men, one of whom wears a paper crown, appear below lifeless trees in the bottom right of a painting by this artist that is set around February or March.
  - This artist's paintings Haymaking, The Gloomy Day, and The Return of the Herd are among the five extant works in his series of six landscapes that depict the Labors of the Months.
  - In a painting by this artist, a man carrying a dead fox and his companion walk on a hill in the foreground.
  - In that painting by this artist, people skate on a lake in the distance while dogs trail the title figures in a winter landscape.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of The Hunters in the Snow. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [or Pieter Brueghel the Elder]
  - This artist collaborated with the von Doetecum brothers to create a series of 12 black and white etchings, such as his Rustic Solicitude. [PWR]
  - A family can be seen feasting next to recently collected grain stacks in The Harvesters, one of 6 secular landscapes created by this artist depicting different times of the year. [PWR]
  - The title sword-wielding figure leads an army of women into the mouth of (*) Hell in this artist's apocalyptic Mad Meg. [PWR]
  - One title figure carries a fox's corpse toward a frozen lake in a snowy scene by this artist.
  - A ploughman ignores the title figure's legs plunging into the sea in a landscape by this artist.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [accept Pieter Brueghel the Elder]
  - This artist referenced Hapsburg rule by putting a double-headed eagle on the building that peasants enter in his landscape The Census at Bethlehem. [PWR]
  - Many of this artist's late landscapes feature "monumental" figures, such as one where a boy climbs a tree to rob eggs from a bird's nest. [PWR]
  - Earlier, he made the Large Landscapes print series with publisher Hieronymus Cock. [PWR]
  - This father of painters nicknamed "Hell" and "Velvet" showed King (*) Nimrod standing before a massive unfinished structure in one of his three versions of The Tower of Babel. [PWR]
  - In a landscape long attributed to him, a ploughman ignores the legs of a mythological figure sticking out of the sea.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish artist credited with the Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
  - In the first episode of Ways of Seeing, John Berger zooms in on the details within a crowd of people in one of this artist's paintings, which also features a windmill perched atop a cliff.
  - This artist of The Procession to Calvary also painted a series that includes The Gloomy Day and a painting of peasants resting under a tree while farmers gather crops.
  - In another entry from that series by him, people ice-skate in the background as men with dogs look out on the winter landscape.
  - In a landscape by this painter, the only visible part of the title figure is a pair of legs sticking out of the sea.
  - For 10 points, name this Dutch painter of The Hunters in the Snow and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
  - This painter depicted a thief partially encased in a transparent sphere with a cross at the top stealing a money pouch from an old man in a black robe in his painting The Misanthrope. [PWR]
  - A character in Caryl Churchill's play Top Girls derives from a painting by this artist, in which a frying pan sticks out of the basket on the shoulder of that woman, who holds a sword and strides purposefully towards a monstrous mouth.
  - This artist depicted a woman leading an army to pillage (*) Hell in a painting variously known as Mad Meg and Dull Gret. [PWR]
  - In one of the five surviving paintings from this artist's Labors of the Months cycle, some men accompanied by their dogs trudge through a wintry landscape towards some skaters.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of The Hunters in the Snow. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Delta Burke (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel [BROI-guhl] [accept different vowel sounds]
  - This painter might have used engravings of the Roman Colosseum as models for his two versions of The Tower of Babel.
  - This artist imitated the imagery of Hieronymus Bosch in the depiction of demented creatures in his The Fall of the Rebel Angels.
  - Just the green legs of the title figure can be seen above the water as an ignorant plowman dominates the center in this painter's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.
  - For 10 points, Peasant Wedding and Hunters in the Snow are works by what Dutch painter? [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
  - In a painting by this artist, a man with a bulging back walks with his wife behind a fool carrying a torch. [PWR]
  - A man straddles a barrel with a pork chop attached to it in that painting by this artist, whose two contrasting halves are separated by a well in the middle. [PWR]
  - A boy with a red cap covering his eyes licks a plate next to a basket full of jugs in another painting by this man. [PWR]
  - In that painting, a paper (*) crown hangs in front of a green cloth in the background, and a foot which seems to belong to nobody appears beneath a tray of plates being carried by two men to provide food for the title celebration.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of The Fight Between Carnival and Lent and The Peasant Wedding, as well as Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 ACF Fall (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
  - This artist's son earned the nickname "Velvet" for his richly painted floral still lifes.
  - A scene from Matthew 15:14 inspired this artist's painting of six men stumbling diagonally across the canvas.
  - Bowls of soup and porridge rest on a makeshift tray made of a door in this artist's painting of a celebratory feast.
  - This artist of The Blind Leading the Blind produced a painting whose center depicts a flock of sheep surrounding a shepherd glancing skyward.
  - In that painting by this artist, a ship sails past the flailing feet of the title drowning youth.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish member of the Northern Renaissance who painted The Peasant Wedding and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 PACE NSC (2015) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
  - This artist painted stones falling out of the arches of a building while the king who ordered its construction oversees his workers. [PWR]
  - He made a series of six panels depicting different times of the year, although the panel depicting late spring is lost. [PWR]
  - In one of those paintings, three men and their dogs return from an unsuccessful trip, and silhouettes can be seen ice skating in the distance. [PWR]
  - In another of his paintings, bowls of soup at a (*) feast are carried on a door that has been removed from its hinges. [PWR]
  - This artist of The Tower of Babel and Hunters in the Snow painted a mythical character drowning in the sea, unnoticed by the shepherd on a cliff.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish painter of The Peasant Wedding and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [or Peasant Bruegel]
  - A painting identified at the Prado in 2010 as being by this artist features a saint dividing his cloak on the right.
  - Another of this artist's four surviving paintings in distemper includes a man who has just fallen on his back in a ditch at the head of a diagonally-oriented procession connected by their staffs.
  - He also depicted that parable from Matthew at the background of a canvas in which a woman puts a blue cloak on her husband, indicating that he is a cuckold, one of many illustrations of idioms.
  - In another of his paintings, a farmer, shepherd, and angler fail to notice a boy dangling his legs, about to drown.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of Netherlandish Proverbs and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [prompt on "Bruegel"]
  - A little boy in light blue is running in this artist's Winter Landscape with a Bird Trap, and leapfrog and hoop rolling are among the title activities in his Children's Games, but he also painted a boy threatened by a sword in Massacre of the Innocents.
  - He is better known for a work in which the sun has melted the wings of a man who attempted flying and one in which the title characters return from the forest with a pack of dogs.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish artist of The Tower of Babel, Landscape with the Fall of Icarus, and Hunters in the Snow. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 Illinois Fall Tournament (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pieter Bruegel the Elder
  - This artist portrayed a pickpocket enclosed in a glass bubble in The Misanthrope.
  - He painted The Suicide of Saul as well as sword-wielding angels descending to slay beasts in his version of Fall of Rebel Angels.
  - This painter painted a slew of toga-wearing, trumpet-playing skeletons who vary from their skeleton brethren who execute humans in his version of The Triumph of Death.
  - In one of his works showing meager life, two people carry in porridge during a marriage feast in a barn.
  - In another, farmers on the coast nonchalantly go on with life as a boy falls into the sea.
  - For 10 points, name this Dutch painter of The Peasant Wedding and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artwork titled for these things painted on twelve small wooden plates shows a man urinating on an image of a crescent-shaped moon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: proverbs [or spreekwoorden; accept idioms; accept sayings; accept Netherlandish Proverbs or Dutch Proverbs]):
    Name these things that title a painting inspired by Frans Hogenberg's The Blue Cloak that depicts a number of tarts left out on a rooftop above a man biting a pillar.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [prompt on Pieter Bruegel]):
    Netherlandish Proverbs was painted by this artist. He depicted villagers in the distance playing ice-stock and hockey in his landscape Hunters in the Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: Hieronymus Cock [or Hieronymus Wellens de Cock]):
    Bruegel's drawing of the proverb Big Fish Eat Little Fish was published by the "House of the Four Winds" company founded by this printmaker, who initially credited that drawing to Hieronymus Bosch instead to popularize the work.

[B2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: John Tenniel's illustrations of the Duchess in Alice in Wonderland were likely influenced by a portrait by an artist with this surname. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Matsys ("mat-SAYCE") [or Metsys or Massijs]):
    Give this surname shared by a family of artists active in Antwerp. The Goddess of Flowers holds red and white carnations against the backdrop of the River Scheldt ("skelt") in the painting Flora, created by a painter with this surname.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel ("BROY-guhl") the Elder):
    Another artist active in Antwerp was this painter of Netherlandish Proverbs and The Hunters in the Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: monkeys [accept equivalents; accept singeries]):
    Two of these animals chained together can be seen under an archway overlooking the city of Antwerp in a painting by Bruegel. David Teniers ("teh-NEARZ") the Younger created many paintings in a genre featuring these animals.

[B3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright adapted the structure of Everyman for his 2008 play Afterlife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Michael Frayn (the unnamed play is Noises Off)):
    Name this British playwright, who wrote a farce where the alcoholic Selsdon Mowbray frustrates Lloyd Dallas, the director of the play-within-a-play Noises On.
  Part 2 (ans: Ghosts [or spirits]):
    In Frayn's play Copenhagen, Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg appear as these beings. Prince Hamlet's father, King Hamlet, appears only as one of these beings.
  Part 3 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [or Pieter Brueghel the Elder; reject "Pieter Brueghel the Younger"] (the unnamed poem is "Musee des Beaux Arts" by W.H. Auden)):
    In Frayn's novel Headlong, Martin Clay thinks he has discovered a painting in this artist's series The Months. A poem based on a painting by him describes how "About suffering they were never wrong, the old Masters."

[B4] 2023 British Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this painting, one of the title figures carries a small fox, which appears to be the only success of their expedition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hunters in the Snow [or The Return of the Hunters; or Jagers in de Sneeuw]):
    Name this painting, part of a painter's set of works depicting the seasons. In this wintry painting, dogs cluster around the title figures walking across a hill that overlooks skaters on a frozen lake in the valley below.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    The Hunters in the Snow was painted by this Northern Renaissance painter, who also painted Netherlandish Proverbs and The Tower of Babel. A king lies dying in the corner of this painter's The Triumph of Death.
  Part 3 (ans: Bethlehem):
    Bruegel also painted a scene titled for a census at this location. A pregnant Virgin Mary sits on a donkey in Bruegel's painting of this town, which according to the biblical narrative is the birthplace of Jesus.

[B5] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet described "skinny, resigned" little girls who "in the grand boudoir of a wink ... all turn into beautiful Helens" in the poem "A Moment In Troy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wislawa Szymborska [or Maria Wislawa Anna Szymborska]):
    Name this poet who described "corpse-filled wagons" and "rusted-out arguments" after claiming, "After every war / somebody must clean up" in "The End and the Beginning."
  Part 2 (ans: Eavan Boland):
    Szymborska inspired the title of this poet's anthology After Every War: Twentieth-Century Women Poets. This Irish poet of Against Love Poetry described a body severed "from its native air" in "A Woman Without A Country."
  Part 3 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    Szymborska takes an "exam on the history of mankind" in a poem about a painting by this artist that depicts two chained monkeys. The speaker of W.H. Auden's poem "Musee des Beaux Arts" mentions the splash made by Icarus in one of this man's paintings.

[B6] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A peasant in red plows a field in the extreme foreground of a painting by this artist. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [prompt on Bruegel, do NOT accept or prompt on "Bruegel the Younger" or "Jan Bruegel"]):
    Name this sixteenth-century Flemish artist who showed the title figure's legs flailing in the water next to a large ship in his Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. He also painted several scenes of peasant weddings.
  Part 2 (ans: The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things [or The Seven Vices; or Zeven Hoofdzonden]):
    This series by Bruegel depicts knights cutting nude civilians with a large butter knife and a grotesque winged monster eating a shoe. Another Flemish painting of this theme takes the shape of a large circle and lies flat.
  Part 3 (ans: Hieronymus Bosch [or Jheronimusvan Aken]):
    That circular depiction of the Seven Deadly Sins was made by this earlier Flemish painter, and is housed in the Prado alongside three of his triptychs.

[B7] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting by Scottish artist Henry Raeburn is titled for Reverend Robert Walker performing this activity on Duddingston Loch. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ice skating):
    Name this activity. William Grant stands with folded arms while partaking in this activity in a portrait by Gilbert Stuart.
  Part 2 (ans: Grandma Moses [or Anna Mary Robertson Moses]):
    A group of children play on the ice in this artist's painting Skating on the Mill Pond. This American painter of lively rural scenes such as Sugaring Off began her career at the age of 78.
  Part 3 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    Members of a village can be seen skating in the background as a group of men return with their dogs in this man's painting The Hunters in the Snow.

[B8] 2020 ACF Fall (2020) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting by this artist focuses on some men and their dogs in a wintry landscape overlooking ice skaters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pieter Bruegel ("BROY-gul") the Elder):
    Name this Northern Renaissance painter of The Hunters in the Snow. He also painted a landscape where the title mythological character can only be seen as some legs disappearing under the water.
  Part 2 (ans: months of the year [accept Labors of the Months]):
    The Hunters in the Snow is part of a series of paintings representing these things, which also includes works like The Harvesters and The Gloomy Day. The Limbourg brothers depicted the "Labors of" these things at the start of the Tres Riches Heures ("tray reesh urr") du Duc de Berry.
  Part 3 (ans: weddings [or marriages]):
    Another Bruegel painting depicts a Peasant event of this type, in which two men use a door as a tray to pass food around a celebratory crowd. Jan van Eyck's Arnolfini Portrait depicts, and is sometimes named for, this type of event.

[B9] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about depictions of your favorite saint in art: John the Baptist for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio):
    This Baroque artist created at least eight paintings of John the Baptist also known as John in the Wilderness. In one painting, John is depicted with a ram, while in another he drinks water out of a fountain.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    This artist painted John in his The Preaching of St. John the Baptist. He is probably more famous for the paintings Hunters In the Snow and The Triumph of Death.
  Part 3 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    John the Baptist appears to the right of the Virgin and Child in both this Sienese artist's Madonna and Child with Saints polyptych as well as his Maesta.

[B10] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter's The Ice Hole depicts an opening carved out of a frozen lake in Maine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marsden Hartley):
    Name this modernist painter who wanted to be the "official portrait painter" of Mount Katahdin. He also painted Lobster Fishermen.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [prompt on Bruegel (BROY-gull or BRUH-hull)]):
    This painter depicted villagers skating on the ice as the title figures run in the foreground of Hunters in the Snow. He also painted Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.
  Part 3 (ans: Caspar David Friedrich):
    In this artist's Sea of Ice, a ship can be seen keeled over to the right amidst the cracked sheet. He also painted Two Men Contemplating the Moon.

[B11] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some painters who inspired poetry by Polish Nobel winner Wislawa Szymborska.
  Part 1 (ans: Johannes Vermeer):
    Szymborska's poem titled for this artist states, in its entirety, "So long as that woman from the Rijksmuseum / in painted quiet and concentration / keeps pouring milk day after day / from the pitcher to the bowl / the World hasn't earned / the world's end."
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens):
    Szymborska's poem titled for this artist describes a group of skinny sisters, who nobody saw "walking single file / onto the unpainted side of the canvas," describing them as "exiles of style," in contrast to the "Herculasses" and "fat love dishes" which typify "[this painter's] Women."
  Part 3 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [prompt on Bruegel]):
    Szymborska's poem titled for this artist describes a dream about an exam on the History of Mankind proctored by animals, a reference to this artist's painting Two Monkeys. He also painted a bunch of animals in The Return of the Herd.

[B12] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A tavern sign on the left side of this work features the scene of St. Hubertus and the deer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hunters in the Snow (accept Jagers in de Sneeuw or The Return of the Hunters)):
    Identify this painting that features a bunch of dogs, three men, and one dead fox on the top of a hill, approaching a village where a crowd of silhouettes are skating.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    This Northern Renaissance artist of Netherlandish Proverbs included The Hunters in the Snow in his "Labours of the Months" series.
  Part 3 (ans: The Harvesters):
    This Bruegel landscape's background includes a cheerful family throwing sticks at a tied-up goose, but its focus is a ripe wheat field and some peasants relaxing and eating under a tree.

[B13] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The existing version of this painting is now thought to be a copy of its artist's no-longer-extant original. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Landscape with the Fall of Icarus):
    Identify this painting whose foreground contains a farmer plowing his field and a shepherd on a cliff staring up aimlessly at the sky. Its title figure plunges into the sea, unnoticed by those men.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [or "Peasant" Breugel]):
    Landscape with the Fall of Icarus was painted by this Flemish Renaissance artist, whose other works include The Triumph of Death and two different versions of The Tower of Babel.
  Part 3 (ans: Netherlandish Proverbs [or Dutch Proverbs]):
    In this busy Bruegel painting, sometimes called The Blue Cloak, a man in a suit of armor places a bell on a cat. Elsewhere in this painting, a couple visible through an open roof tile makes out under a broom.

[B14] 2014 Delta Burke (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter nicknamed his sons Velvet and Hell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [or Peasant Bruegel]):
    Name this sixteenth century Flemish painter of Hunters in the Snow.
  Part 2 (ans: Icarus):
    Pieter Bruegel the Elder painted a Landscape with the Fall of this mythological character, who escaped Crete, but flew too close to the sun with his wings made of wax.
  Part 3 (ans: Tower of Babel):
    Breugel used the Roman Colosseum as a basis for his painting of this structure, which is mostly in ruins. The story of this building's destruction is told in the Book of Genesis.

[B15] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this painting, a small cave is visible in an outcropping of rock from the sea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Landscape with the Fall of Icarus):
    Name this painting in which a peasant plows his field in the lower-left, unaware of the pair of legs sticking out from the sea below.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [do not accept or prompt on "Bruegel the Younger," "Jan Bruegel," etc.]):
    Landscape with the Fall of Icarus is believed to be a copy of a work by this Flemish artist of The Peasant Wedding Feast and Hunters in the Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: The Fall of the Rebel Angels):
    The title characters of this Bruegel painting are transforming into fish, butterflies, and bizarre hybrid-animal-things as they are beaten down in battle by St. Michael.

[B16] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A potbellied man in a pink coat wears a bucket on his head and plays a mandolin in the bottom left of this work, while several figures on the right of this painting have ash marks on their foreheads. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Battle Between Carnival and Lent):
    Identify this painting where a fat man riding a barrel and an emaciated figure being pushed on a blue chair engage in the titular jousting contest.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    The Battle Between Carnival and Lent was painted by this artist of Children's Games and Netherlandish Proverbs.
  Part 3 (ans: The Fall of the Rebel Angels):
    A skinny-looking Michael wearing a golden suit of armor stands in the center of this Bruegel battle scene. Grotesque monsters decorate this Bosch-like canvas.

[B17] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this painting, a man sitting on a window sill appears about to defecate on a globe with its cross pointing downwards. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Netherlandish Proverbs):
    Name this painting also depicting such tropes as a man knocking his head against a wall and a big fish eating a little fish.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    Netherlandish Proverbs was painted by this Flemish artist of Landscape with the Fall of Icarus and The Triumph of Death.
  Part 3 (ans: The Fall of the Rebel Angels):
    This Bruegel painting shows the influence of Hieronymus Bosch, as the retreating title characters are in the middle of transforming into butterflies, fish, gnomes, and other bizarre creatures.
