=== STOCK CLUES: Pindar ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 47 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 18 found, 54 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: Panhellenic Games [accept Ancient Greek sports festivals or athletic competitions or equivalents; prompt on partial answers; accept Olympic, Pythian, Nemean, or Isthmian games until mention; prompt on answers that mention victors or victories or specific events such as chariot races by asking "What larger events were those part of?" until mentioned] (the poems are, in order, Olympian 11 Pythian 1, and Olympian 1; Pindar's revision claims that Tantalus did not actually feed the gods his son)
  - A poem about one of these events claims that "neither the fiery fox nor loud-roaring lions change their nature." Another poem commemorating one of these events gives advice like "Steer your men with the rudder of justice" and mentions the founding of "snow-covered Aetna" ["ET-nuh"]. [PWR]
  - To avoid accusing a god of cannibalism, a poem inspired by one of these events revises the myth of (*) Pelops while recounting his defeat of Oenomaus ["eh-no-MAY-us"]. [PWR]
  - That poem opening "Water is best," which celebrates Hieron I of Syracuse and his horse, is the first of a collection written to celebrate victories in a quadrennial series of these events.
  - For 10 points, name these events whose victors Pindar celebrated in his Pythian and Olympian odes. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Pindaric odes [or victory odes; or Olympian odes; accept epinikia until read] (The first clue is from Bacchylides's fifth ode.)
  - A poem in this genre addressed to a man "fortunate in your fate" describes an eagle "cutting the depth of air on high with tawny wings." Another poem in this genre asks, "Creatures of a day, what is any one?" and calls man "the dream of a shadow." A poem in this genre describes how "gold, like a gleaming fire by night, outshines all pride of wealth" and begins, "best of all things is water." Some poems in this genre were traditionally performed by a group that would move to the left, right, and middle of a stage as they recited its three parts, including the strophe and antistrophe.
  - "Pythian" and "Isthmian" collections were among the books of epinikia, a subtype of this genre, that praised the victories of Hieron of Syracuse and other Greek athletes.
  - For 10 points, Bacchylides and Pindar influenced Horace with their poems in what genre that praises a subject? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: peanuts [or groundnut, goober pea, monkey nut, or pindar; prompt on legume before mention]
  - In the mid-18th century, a Dr. [PWR]
  - Brownrigg from North Carolina proposed that the American colonies could use this crop to replace imports of olive oil, a suggestion that was not taken up. [PWR]
  - Samuel Crocker Cobb was an important trader in this crop in the late 19th century, whose diaries detail an unpredictable trade in this crop with Goree. [PWR]
  - Sacks of this crop were piled into massive (*) pyramids by traders such as the one-time richest man in West Africa, Alhassan Dantata. [PWR]
  - Frank Samuel led a project centered on this crop that exemplifies a "second colonial occupation" outlined by Anthony Low and John Lonsdale. [PWR]
  - Following its introduction, this crop superseded a similar plant commonly named for the (*) Bambara people in importance in West Africa. [PWR]
  - The Spanish word for this crop comes from the Nahuatl word tlacacahuatl [tlah-cah-CAH-wattle].
  - Converted Sherman tanks called "shervicks" were utilized in a failed attempt to industrially produce this crop in British Tanzania.
  - For 10 points, what is this legume that comes in Virginia and Valencia varieties and is commonly boiled in the South? [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Pindar [or Pindaros]
  - Friedrich Nietzsche likely misquoted this poet's aphoristic assertion "become such as you are, having learned what that is." This poet's lines "O my soul, do not aspire to immortal life, but exhaust the limits of the possible" are quoted in the preface to Albert Camus's The Myth of Sisyphus.
  - A poem by this author declares "Creatures of the day!
  - What is anyone?
  - What is no-one?
  - Man is the dream of a shadow." This author wrote that "gold, like a fiery flame gleaming at night, stands supreme above haughty wealth's pride" after enigmatically beginning a poem "water is best." This author dedicated that poem to "Hieron, who holds the scepter of law in Sicily." This rival of Bacchylides  wrote four surviving books of epinikia, including a poem written for Hippocleas  after the youth won a double-stadion.
  - For 10 points, name this Theban lyric poet who honored triumphant athletes in his victory odes. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: odes [accept Pindarian odes, Horiatian odes, or Pindarian odes]
  - In one poem of this type, the author asks "What is someone? [PWR]
  - What is no-one?" before concluding "man is the dream of a shadow." Another of these poems notes "gold" "stands out supreme of all lordly wealth" and begins "Water is best." The author predicted his future influence in one of these poems describing a "monument more lasting than bronze." Poems of this type are divided into (*) strophe, epistrophe, and epode sections.
  - A collection of these poems originated the expressions "dulce et decorum est"  and "Carpe diem." Athletes are the subject of poems of this type written by Pindar, and short, reflective ones are named for Horace.
  - For 10 points, name these poems common in Ancient Greece that inspired one by John Keats written on a Grecian urn. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: peanuts [accept peanut oil or peanut butter; accept goober peas or variants; accept groundnuts or ground pease; prompt on peas or legumes or nuts or Fabaceae; accept mani or pindar or similar; accept Arachis] (The first sentence is partially from Judith Carney's In the Shadow of Slavery: Africa's Botanical Legacy in the New World. The song is called "Goober Peas." Rosalynn Smith's husband is Jimmy Carter.)
  - This crop was domesticated with manioc near Llanos de Mojos , Bolivia, but captives who survived by eating it raw on slave ships conflated it with an African relative named for the Bambara.
  - This crop titles a Confederate folk song about the Georgia Militia.
  - Italian pushcart vendors in New York sold this crop to Union troops who first ate it boiled in the South.
  - Farmers in Suffolk, Virginia competed with this crop's "Spanish" variety.
  - The mental health advocate Rosalynn Smith helped her husband farm this crop in Plains, Georgia.
  - P.
  - T.
  - Barnum sold this crop in bags depicting Jumbo the elephant at his circus.
  - Over 300 products made from sweet potatoes and this crop were invented by the Tuskegee agronomist George Washington Carver.
  - For 10 points, Jimmy Carter farmed what legumes that Americans often eat as "butter?" [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 OCTAVIAN (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Pindar's epinikia or victory odes
  - The scholia suggest that two of this set of poems were written for participants in the same event, a Rhodian and a Corinthian, and the survival of these poems is in part due to their usefulness in reconstructing chronology. [PWR]
  - Kathryn Morgan has recently published a book about the author of these poems and "the Construction of the Syracusan Monarchy". [PWR]
  - The most famous of these poems, the first of one collection, which opens "water is best", is in praise of (*) Hieron of Syracuse, and his victory in the single horse race. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name these poems, composed by Pindar for victors at the most prestigious of the Panhellenic Games. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Pindar
  - The scholar Kathryn Morgan specializes in the works of this author. [PWR]
  - This poet wrote the penultimate lines "The first of prizes is good fortune; the second is to be well spoken of." A poem by this author states "since envy is better than pity, do not abandon fine deeds" before comparing a ruler to a man steering a ship.
  - He used the lines "Water is best, and gold, like a blazing fire in the night, stands out supreme of all lordly wealth" to open a poem dedicated to his patron, (*) Hieron.
  - There is debate whether this poet's works were performed by a chorus or by an individual singer.
  - Bacchylides was a contemporary and rival of this poet, whose most notable output was epinician poetry.
  - He is the best preserved of the Nine Lyric Poets.
  - For 10 points, name this Theban author of many Victory Odes. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This affliction is the subject of a poem by 18th-century one-hit-wonder Matthew Green, who wrote that "Monkeys have been / Extreme good doctors" for it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: spleen [accept "The Spleen: a Pindaric Poem"; accept "The Spleen: An Epistle to Mr. Cuthbert Jackson"; accept Matthew Green's nickname "Spleen Green"]):
    What title affliction is addressed in a Pindaric ode by Anne Finch that contrasts real sufferers with the fool who "to imitate the wits / Complains of thy pretended fits?"
  Part 2 (ans: "A Room of One's Own"):
    This essay laments that the male world of Augustan poetry forced Finch, "whose mind was tuned to nature and reflection... to anger and bitterness." This Virginia Woolf essay imagines Shakespeare's fictional sister, Judith.
  Part 3 (ans: the lock of hair [or Belinda's hair] (from Alexander Pope's "The Rape of the Lock")):
    In a scene that seems to reference Finch's poem, a bag of "sighs, sobs and passions" from the Cave of Spleen triggers a character's fury over this object. This object is set in the stars to add "new glory to the shining sphere."

[B2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a poem by this author remarks that "innocence is no earthly weapon" and that he has learned not to "look down / So much upon the damned." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey Hill):
    Name this author of "Ovid in the Third Reich." In the first poem in a 30-poem cycle that juxtaposes the life of a ruler with this author's childhood, the narrator calls a king "overlord of the M5," to which the ruler of the title kingdom replies "'I liked that... sing it again.'"
  Part 2 (ans: Wendy Cope):
    Geoffrey Hill's Mercian Hymns was parodied in the poem "Duffa Rex" by this author. This author of Making Cocoa for Kingsley Amis also wrote Waste Land Limericks, which parodies the T. S. Eliot poem.
  Part 3 (ans: Pindar [or Pindaros]):
    The central section of Hill's collection Without Title features 21 pieces in a genre named for this poet. This Theban lyric poet often commemorated athletes in victory odes.

[B3] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet described how gold "stands out supreme" "like a fire blazing in the night" in a poem dedicated to Hieron of Syracuse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pindar [or Pindaros]):
    Name this Ancient Greek poet who declared "of all things, water is best" at the beginning of one of his epinikia, which he pioneered alongside his rival Bacchylides.
  Part 2 (ans: ode [accept Pindaric ode]):
    Pindar's epinikia, commemorating Olympic victories, are in his namesake form of this sort of poem that gives praise.
  Part 3 (ans: strophe OR antistrophe):
    The Pindaric ode form ends with the epode, in which the chorus unites in the center of the stage. Name either of the other two parts of the Pindaric ode.

[B4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock's ("KLOP-shtokʼs") epic poem The Messiah, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Paradise Lost):
    Klopstock's poem was heavily influenced by a German translation of this other poem. Satan declares that it is "better to reign in hell than to serve in heaven" in this poem by John Milton.
  Part 2 (ans: odes [accept Pindaric ode]):
    Canto 15 of The Messiah sees the death of Klopstock's wife, who was referred to as "Cidli" in his earlier poems in this form. The strophe, antistrophe, and epode make up an earlier structure of this poetic form often used to depict athletes.
  Part 3 (ans: alexandrine):
    Klopstock unusually used dactylic hexameter as the verse form for The Messiah, rather than this "traditional" verse. This French-derived verse line consists of two half-lines of six syllables separated by a caesura ("suh-ZHUR-uh").

[B5] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title of this author's lost work Silvae was likely the inspiration for the collection Silvae by the poet Statius, who modeled many of its poems on earlier authors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucan [or Marcus Annaeus Lucanus] (The poem is Pharsalia. The commander is Julius Caesar.)):
    Name this poet who also wrote an epic poem which abruptly ends as a commander thinks about the heroic soldier Scaeva while being attacked in Egypt.
  Part 2 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    Statius' collection Silvae contains a few lyric odes inspired by this earlier Roman author's Odes, which contains the declaration "carpe diem" or "seize the day."
  Part 3 (ans: Pindar):
    One of Statius' lyric odes from Silvae addresses this author as the "leader of the lyric host." This author wrote many epinikia, or victory odes, for winners of Panhellenic festivals.

[B6] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: To celebrate its dedicatee, a work by this poet tells the story of Typhon and his imprisonment under Mount Etna. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Pindar [or  Pindaros or  Pindarus ]):
    Name this late member of the nine canonical Greek lyric poets, who is best known for his victory odes for victors at Panhellenic festivals such as his "Olympic Odes."
  Part 2 (ans:  Sappho of Lesbos):
    The sole female member of the nine Greek lyric poets was this poet from Lesbos, who wrote an "Ode to Aphrodite."
  Part 3 (ans:  Simonides ("SIGH-moh-NYE-deez") of Ceos):
    This member of the nine lyric poets is best known for his elegies for Thermopylae and Plataea ("plah-TEE-uh"). He was supposedly the uncle of the lyric poet Bacchylides ("BACK-ee-LIE-deez").

[B7] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by Gavrila Derzhavin imagines creating one of these objects "eternal and miraculous," which inspired a mocking response by Alexander Pushkin that ends "never argue with a fool." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: monuments [accept "Exegi monumentum" or pamyatnik]):
    An ancient poet predicted his enduring fame by claiming to have made what sort of object that "shall not dread... angry Boreas" and "shall escape the queen of funerals?"
  Part 2 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    Derzhavin and Pushkin's monument poems both respond to this Latin poet's boast that his poetry is "a monument more lasting than bronze." This poet used the phrase "carpe diem" in one of his Odes.
  Part 3 (ans: Pindar [or Pindaros]):
    This other ancient poet claimed in one of his Isthmian Odes that the poet's gift is to "build for all to share a monument of beauty." This rival of Simonides wrote many epinikia, or victory odes.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This declaration opens a poem that narrates a whitewashed variant of the Tantalus myth in which the king never fed his son to the gods, who instead punished him for stealing ambrosia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "water is best" [or "ariston men hudor"; accept close translations, like water is the best, or water is best of all, or water is best of elements]):
    Give this gnomic assertion that opens the first Olympian Ode, which is dedicated to Hieron of Syracuse. This verdict is followed by an encomium to gold, which "stands out supreme of all lordly wealth."
  Part 2 (ans: Pindar [or Pindaros]):
    This Greek poet, the author of many epinikia in honor of victorious athletes, enigmatically asserted that "water is best" at the opening of his first Olympian Ode.
  Part 3 (ans: epodes [or epodoi]):
    Many of Pindar's odes consist of three parts, of which the last is given this name. Iambic "blame" poetry is the model for seventeen poems by Horace collected under this name, which are distinct from his satires.

[B9] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This iambic (eye-AM-bic) poet wrote about his lack of regret at tossing away a shield that was later picked up by a Thracian (THRAY-shin) soldier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Archilochus (ar-KILL-uh-kuss)):
    Name this archaic Greek lyric poet whose fragments include, "The fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing."
  Part 2 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    This Roman lyric poet imitated Archilochus in his Epodes (EPP-odes). His Odes coined the phrase "carpe diem" (KAR-pay DEE-em), and he also wrote Ars Poetica.
  Part 3 (ans: Pindaros):
    Another model for Horace's poetry was this author whose surviving victory odes were often inspired by Panhellenic festivals. He wrote that "War is sweet to them who know it not."

[B10] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet narrates a section of Callimachus' Aetia in which he complains that a general named Phoenix has taken the stones from his tomb to build a defensive tower. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Simonides of Ceos):
    Name this member of the "nine lyric poets," who used a self-invented mnemonic technique to recall the exact seating of Skopas' men in a building that collapsed after Skopas told this poet to ask Polydeuces for money instead of him.
  Part 2 (ans: dithyrambs [or dithyrambos]):
    Simonides was one of the best-known ancient composers of these choral hymns, which were sung and danced in honor of Dionysus.
  Part 3 (ans: Pindaros):
    Unlike those of Simonides, several dithyrambs by this fierce rival of his have survived. He's best known for writing "victory odes" that commemorated accomplishments at the Olympics.

[B11] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The conclusion of one of this poet's poems asks "Creatures of a day! What is anyone? / What is anyone not?". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pindar):
    Name this Ancient Greek lyric poet, best known for celebrating athletic prowess in his Olympian and Isthmian victory odes. He stated "I deplore the lot of tyrants" in a poem concerning Hieron of Syracuse.
  Part 2 (ans: Troy [or Ilium or Ilion]):
    Pindar's eighth Olympian ode includes a lengthy digression about the construction of walls in this city, which is the principal setting of the war described in the Iliad.
  Part 3 (ans: Bacchylides):
    This other Greek lyric poet, whose works are mostly known from a single papyrus discovered in 1896, is often considered a rival of Pindar. His third victory ode also celebrates Hieron's chariot ability at the games.

[B12] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Nine Lyric poets were judged of great enough worth to be studied by those arbiters of taste, the Alexandrian scholars. For 10 points each
  Part 1 (ans: Sappho):
    This only woman amongst the number, and only her Hymn to Aphrodite is complete of her works, while her relationships with other women are perhaps the greatest source of her fame.
  Part 2 (ans: Pindar):
    This poet is known, other than fragments, through his Victory Odes for the great athletic Games of Archaic Greece, notably to Hieron, tyrant of Syracuse.
  Part 3 (ans: Simonides):
    This poet worked extensively during the Persian wars, and his epigram Go, Tell the Spartans, was placed on the cenotaph to the fallen at Thermopylae.

[B13] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The Penguin edition of this poet's work was written by Maurice Bowra, who published a standard introduction to this author as well as a translation of his Carmina. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pindar (the form is a Pindaric ode)):
    Identify this poet, who names a poetic form consisting of a strophe and antistrophe of identical stanza form, followed by an epode, which is of different form.
  Part 2 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    Pindar's ode form was admired and imitated by this Roman ode writer, who coined the phrase "carpe diem."
  Part 3 (ans: Sappho of Lesbos):
    Horace's Carmen Saeculare is written using a stanza form named for this Aeolic-using poet, which consists of two hendecasyllabic lines and a third beginning the same way, followed by five more syllables. This author's "Ode to Anactoria" was adapted by Catullus.

[B14] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay claims that there is no "essential difference between the language of prose and metrical composition," in part to justify the author's focus on depicting "humble and rustic life" in a selection of "language really used by men." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Preface to Lyrical Ballads):
    Identify this essay, which claims that "all good poetry is the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings".
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray [the author of "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"]):
    In the Preface to Lyrical Ballads, Wordsworth quotes this man's "Sonnet on the Death of Richard West" in full, italicizing only five lines as worth keeping. This man wrote that "The paths of glory lead but to the grave" in a popular elegy.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Bard: A Pindaric Ode"):
    Gray set this "Pindaric Ode" during a "toilsome march" of Edward I's army. Its title Welshman chants such things as "Weave the warp, and weave the woof, / The winding-sheet of Edward's race" before leaping to his death.

[B15] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the most odious form of poetry, the ode, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pindar [or Pindarus]):
    This ancient Greek lyric poet is the namesake of an English form popularized by Abraham Cowley. He himself is best remembered for his collections of "victory odes" celebrating athletic accomplishments.
  Part 2 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    Pindar was among the poets who inspired the very popular odes of this Roman author, who coined the phrases "in medias res" and "ut pictura poesis" in his instructional essay Ars Poetica.
  Part 3 (ans: strophe, antistrophe, and/or epode [need at least TWO parts to get all 10 points, no partial credit]):
    Unlike later Horatian odes, Pindaric odes were intended to be sung to musical accompaniment and as such are divided into three parts: an opening, a mirroring response sung by the chorus, and a closing section with a different meter. All or nothing, name at least two of the three sections.

[B16] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Republic, this man is the source of Polemarchus's definition of justice, and Socrates discusses his poetry in the Protagoras. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Simonides of Ceos):
    Name this lyric poet, who was credited with inventing letters of the Greek alphabet and wrote many elegies and encomiums.
  Part 2 (ans: Sappho of Lesbos):
    This other lyric poet, from Lesbos, wrote "a trembling / seizes all of me" in phainetai moi, and is also known for a Hymn to Aphrodite which asks the title goddess not to crush the author's spirit.
  Part 3 (ans: Pindar):
    This lyric poet from Boetia authored numerous victory odes, including ones for the Panhellenic games at Olympia and Delphi. Alexander the Great ordered his house spared during the razing of Thebes.

[B17] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some members of the nine lyric poets, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Pindar):
    This man's Pythian odes can be found in the four books he wrote of epinikia, the form for which he is best known.
  Part 2 (ans: Sappho):
    The "Hymn to Aphrodite" is the only completely extant poem by this poet from Lesbos. Anne Carson's translation of her fragments is called If Not, Winter.
  Part 3 (ans: Anacreon):
    "The Star-Spangled Banner" is set to the tune of a song dedicated to this poet, who is known for his drinking songs.

[B18] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The fragmentary Cologne Epode describes how this poet rejected Neobule and seduced her sister out of spite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Archilochus):
    Name this ancient Greek lyric poet, who wrote a frequently imitated elegy about his lack of concern for throwing away his shield in battle. Another of his fragments declares that "the fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing."
  Part 2 (ans: Anacreon):
    This later poet from Teos also wrote a poem about throwing away his shield. One of the canonical nine lyric poets, he lends his name to short poems praising love and wine.
  Part 3 (ans: Pindar):
    Another member of the nine lyric poets was this author of four books of epinikia, including his Nemean Odes, which celebrate victorious athletes.
