=== STOCK CLUES: Pamuk ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 72 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 24 found, 71 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - A novel by this author contains the story of a secluded Prince who spends ten years burning books in an obsessive quest to become "himself." The even-numbered chapters of a novel by this author are all articles by a missing journalist that the protagonist pursues and then impersonates while looking for his own wife, Ruya, who is also missing. [PWR]
  - In that novel by this author, (*) Galip becomes obsessed with a writer later found dead, Jelal.
  - In another novel by this author, a man is murdered after preparing a secret book of artworks in the Venetian style.
  - Artistic subjects like a tree and Satan narrate chapters of that novel by this author, which centers on an investigation by Black.
  - For 10 points, name this author of colorfully-titled novels like The Black Book and My Name is Red. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: (Ferit) Orhan Pamuk
  - In a novel by this author, the protagonist remarks that when his boss tells religious stories, he "would sense a vague warning in his manner: it could happen to you." That protagonist of a novel by this author runs away to study engineering after dropping a bucket down a well onto his boss's head, thinking him dead. [PWR]
  - The title character narrates the epilogue of that novel by this author, claiming her illegitimate son with that Oedipus-obsessed protagonist did not intend to kill him. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, a character agrees to act in a televised production of The (*) Spanish Tragedy without her head-scarf to secure her lover's freedom from nationalists. [PWR]
  - In that novel by this author, after finding out that police killed Hande and Blue, Ipek chooses to visit Kadife instead of the protagonist, who began writing poetry again after a mystical experience while investigating suicides in Kars.
  - For 10 points, name this Turkish author of The Red-Haired Woman and Snow. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Istanbul [accept Constantinople; accept Kostantiniyye] (The first novel is A Strangeness in my Mind. Pamuk was tried for "insulting Turkishness" by telling Das Magazin that "a million Armenians and 30,000 Kurds were killed" in his country.)
  - In a novel set in this city, "dishwasher boys" pick the phrase "Your eyes are like ensorcelled arrows" to start a love letter to a girl their street vendor friend saw at a wedding.
  - A man fixates on the stories of Sohrab  and Rustam  and of Oedipus  after leaving this city to become a well-digger's apprentice in a novel by an author who discussed "the weight of literature" in a lecture.
  - Comments in the Swiss outlet Das Magazinled to the trial of an author from this non-capital city who wrote the 2016 novel The Red-Haired Woman and the lecture "My Father's Suitcase." That man set a book in this city in which a man who despises the Frankish style of art deliberately blinds himself with a needle, and whose narrators include a tree, a coin, and the murdered miniaturist Elegant Effendi.
  - For 10 points, My Name Is Red is set in what birth city of Orhan Pamuk ? [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk (The first novel is The Red-Haired Woman.)
  - In a novel by this author, a teenager takes a summer apprenticeship with a well-digger to escape city life, during which he loses his virginity to the title actress. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another novel by this author claims "no one recognizes the happiest moment of their lives" as he contemplates the butterfly-shaped earring of his girlfriend, who died in a car crash. [PWR]
  - In a third novel by this author, an assassin steals 19 of the 20 poems which a man wrote out of frustration over his love for (*) Ipek, who is attracted to the terrorist Blue. [PWR]
  - A performance of The Spanish Tragedy turns deadly for Zaim in that novel by this author, in which a headscarf ban prompts several suicides of several young girls which are investigated by Ka.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Museum of Innocence and Snow, a Nobel laureate from Turkey. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - Towards the end of a work by this author, the reader finds out that it is supposedly penned by the son of the protagonist, who is awaiting trial for his father's murder.
  - In that work by this author, a man becomes obsessed with Oedipus Rex and the tale of Rostam and Sohrab after his Marxist father abandons him and that the main character takes a job as a well-digger's apprentice.
  - A story by Rashiduddin of Kazvin is recounted in a work by this author, which includes three parables being told by Butterfly, Stork and Olive and a coin and two dervishes as narrators.
  - That work by this author tells of the murder of the miniaturist Elegant Effendi.
  - For 10 points, name this Turkish author of The Red Haired Woman and My Name is Red. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - One work by this author has chapters narrated by a drawing of a tree, a counterfeit coin, and the colour red. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another of his novels is the poet of "The Place Where God Does Not Exist", and this man's essays include "How I Got Rid Of Some Of My Books" and "Why Didn't I Become An Architect?". [PWR]
  - Those essays are collected in Other Colours. [PWR]
  - One novel by this author explores the conflict between (*) Persian illustration and European portraiture in 16th century Istanbul, and features the murder of Elegant Effendi and a romance between Black and Shekure. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of My Name is Red and The Museum of Innocence, a Turkish Nobel laureate. [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - This author contrasted two myths of filicide and patricide respectively, Ferdowsi's "Rostam and Sohrab" and Sophocles' Oedipus Rex, in a novella about a well-digger and his apprentice. [PWR]
  - Another of this author's characters is described as "a bit of a weirdo, but he's got a heart of gold," and that character marries a girl whose love letters he actually wrote for her sister.
  - Along with a novel about Mevlut's futile attempts to strike it rich as a street vendor, this author of The Red-Haired Woman wrote about a self-absorbed man who founds the Lemon Films and falls in love with a girl that sells him a counterfeit (*) handbag; after his wife Sibel leaves him for his infidelity, this author's character Kemal fills a museum with objects that remind him of his lover Fusun.
  - For 10 points, name this Turkish author of The Museum of Innocence who wrote about the poet Ka in Snow. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - In this author's most recent novel, the main character meets a beautiful girl at a wedding, only to be tricked by his cousin into marrying her less attractive older sister.
  - Another of this author's novels tells of how an engineering student finds the title phenomenon within a book.
  - This author's first novel to be translated into English featured an Italian scholar being kidnapped and forced to design a huge weapon.
  - Other works by this author are one novel whose narrators include Satan, a coin and a murdered miniaturist, and another in which Kadife shoots Sunay Zaim before Ka leaves town.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote My Name is Red and Snow in his native Turkish. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: (Ferit) Orhan Pamuk
  - In a work by this author, a picture of a tree proclaims "I don't want to be a tree, I want to be its meaning".
  - This author created a character who saves 4,213 cigarette butts discarded by the woman he loves.
  - One of this author's characters blinds himself with a plume needle, so that he can paint only from his memory, without using his eyes.
  - Another of this author's protagonists falls in love with a salesgirl who turns out to be a distant cousin, while he is shopping for a handbag for his fiancee Sibel.
  - That protagonist collects mundane objects belonging to Fusun in this author's The Museum of Innocence.He wrote a novel about the murdered miniaturist Elegant Effendi.
  - For 10 points, name this author of My Name is Red and Snow, a Nobel Prize-winning Turkish novelist. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk [accept either underlined answer; or the author in Snow or the author of S now until "author of Snow" is read; prompt on narrator of Snow as he is not the only narrator]
  - This character sees a poster reading "HUMAN BEINGS ARE GOD'S MASTERPIECES AND SUICIDE IS BLASPHEMY" while visiting the Divine Light Teahouse.
  - This person finds phrases such as "The Place Where God Does Not Exist" and "The Place Where the World Ends" on a snowflake diagram, in a chapter in which this character opens 40 unsent love letters and finds they all begin "My darling, I have thought long and hard about whether I should write to tell you this" when he searches an apartment in Frankfurt.
  - Near the book's conclusion, this character learns that Kadife is out of prison for shooting Zaim; he also learns that Ipek has remained unmarried and still believes the revolutionary named Blue was betrayed.
  - While visiting Kars, this character tells Ka he is working on The Museum of Innocence.
  - For 10 points, name this character, a fictionalization of the author of Snow. [GIVE]

[T11] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk]
  - In one novel by this author, a character forces a village of people to line up and confess their sins, to try to discover the secret of the Frankish people's success. [PWR]
  - A chapter of another novel by him is a transcript of a hidden tape recording of a man's conversation in a pastry shop with the assassin who shoots him. [PWR]
  - In a third novel by him, two lovers write letters that are delivered by the illiterate Jewish clothes-peddler (*) Esther. [PWR]
  - The archivist Faruk is captured en-route to Naples and becomes the property of Hoja in his The White Castle.
  - He wrote a novel whose narrators include a gold coin and the corpse of the miniaturist Elegant Effendi, as well as a novel in which the poet Ka witnesses a coup in Kars.
  - For 10 points, name this author of My Name is Red and Snow, a Turkish Nobel prize-winner. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - This author's second novel, which has five different narrators, is about three siblings who visit their grandmother in the town of Cennethisar.
  - Another of his novels opens with the sentence "I read a book one day and my whole life changed." That novel features a man named Dr. [PWR]
  - Fine who leads a conspiracy to assassinate readers of the title book. [PWR]
  - This author of The Silent (*) House also wrote a novel about an Italian scholar who is kidnapped by Hoja and forced to help design an enormous weapon.
  - This author of The New Life also wrote a novel featuring a man named Black who is in love with Shekure.
  - That novel has chapters narrated by a tree, Satan, and the title color, and is about the murderer of an Ottoman miniaturist.
  - For 10 points, name this Turkish author of The White Castle and My Name Is Red. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - In one of this author's novels, a visit to the Treasury leads to the conclusion that some sketches of horses with large nostrils, painted in the Chinese style, must have been made by Olive.
  - He created the leftist Sunay Zaim, who is murdered onstage by Kadife, in another work.
  - In the former novel, set during the 16th century, Black tries to marry his cousin Shekure and investigates three miniaturists for the murder of Elegant Effendi.
  - In the latter novel, he wrote about a poet named Ka, who returns from exile to investigate suicides related to a ban on headscarves.
  - For 10 points, name this author of My Name is Red and Snow, who hails from Turkey. [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Orhan Pamuk
  - This author praised the text's meandering spirit in a regarded introduction to Tristam Shandy, which was included in long essay collection that concludes with a speech reflecting on a suitcase full of his father's manuscripts. [PWR]
  - One of his characters fails to launch Lemon Pictures while collecting drawings of a canary, china dogs, and a Jenny Colon handbag as creepy relics of Fusun, a shopgirl he obsesses over. [PWR]
  - Everyone ends up mysteriously shot to death at Aladdin's in another work by this author of Other Colors, after a lawyer impersonates a (*) newspaper columnist when his wife Ruya disappears. [PWR]
  - This author of The Museum of Innocence and The Black Book wrote of a coup that breaks out when a poem is recited during a variety show in a novel that sees Blue, Ypek, and Ka embroiled in a contentious play about head scarves while secluded in the town of Kars by the titular phenomenon.
  - For 10 points, identify this author of works like Snow and My Name is Red, who was prosecuted for discussing the Armenian genocide in his native Turkey. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: When a love letter prompts this character's mother to ask him if he wants a father, he replies, "No, when I grow up I'm going to marry you myself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orhan [accept Orhan Pamuk; prompt on the author of My Name Is Red]):
    Name this character who would tell any lie "for the sake of a delightful, convincing story" according to Shekure. At the end of My Name Is Red, Shekure gives this character letters by Hasan and Black as well as a set of horse illustrations.
  Part 2 (ans: Snow [or Kar]):
    Orhan Pamuk used a similar twist in this novel, in which the narrator Orhan reveals that the protagonist was eventually assassinated in Germany for betraying the militant Blue.
  Part 3 (ans: bubonic plague outbreaks [or epidemics or pandemics; accept Nights of Plague or Veba Geceleri]):
    The historian Mina consults "the history enthusiast Orhan Pamuk" in a Pamuk novel about one of these events on the fictional island of Mingheria. In that novel, a princess investigates Bonkowski Pasha's murder during one of these events.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of this novel, Olive is revealed to have murdered an artist who was working on a secret illuminated manuscript, after which Olive is beheaded in the street in a case of mistaken identity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: My Name Is Red [or Benim Adım Kırmızı]):
    Name this novel that unusually includes chapters narrated from the perspective of a drawing of a tree and of a fake gold coin.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk]):
    This Turkish author wrote about the murder of the miniaturist Elegant Effendi in the novel My Name Is Red.
  Part 3 (ans: Nights of Plague [or Veba Geceleri]):
    In this 2021 Pamuk novel, a princess and a prince consort employ Holmesian methods to solve the murder of Bonkowski Pasha, a chief inspector of public health and sanitation dispatched to the fictional island of Mingheria.

[B3] 2024 HILTON (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Penelope Gilliatt's career of criticism effectively ended after a profile she published on this author was accused of plagiarism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Graham Greene (the novel is Bound to Violence)):
    Name this author whose book It's a Battlefield was also plagiarized for a novel about the Saifs who rule over Nakem.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    This Nobel Prize winner has been accused of plagiarism for his novel about an Italian scholar who is kidnapped to serve under Hoja.
  Part 3 (ans: Norman Mailer):
    Pamuk was also accused of plagiarizing this author's historical fiction novel Ancient Evenings for My Name is Red. His other historical fiction includes The Executioner's Song and The Naked and the Dead.

[B4] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: After using the phrase "wall of silence" to describe responses to this event, Donald Quataert resigned as chairman of a Georgetown-based institute in 2006. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Armenian Genocide (The unnamed author is Orhan Pamuk.)):
    Name this event, "banality" over which Yair Auron attacked Justin McCarthy and Heath Lowry over in a 2003 book. In 2005, an author was sued for violating Article 301 in discussing this event.
  Part 2 (ans: Shimon Peres [or Szymon Perski]):
    In an effort to keep Turkish borders open for Iranian and Iraqi Jews, this leader called the genocide "Armenian allegations." This Israeli shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Yitzhak Rabin and Yasser Arafat for the Oslo Accords.
  Part 3 (ans: Germany [or the Federal Republic of Germany; or Deutschland]):
    Taner Akcam (ak-cham) became the first Turkish historian to acknowledge the genocide while working in this country in 1990. Ernst Nolte's Fascism in Its Epoch examines this country's Third Reich as a reaction to modernity.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character with this profession describes a scene from Saadi's poetry in which King Darius gets lost during a hunt and fails to recognize his own servant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: miniaturists [accept illustrators; accept any description of drawing images for books; prompt on artists or painters by asking "what kind of art do they produce?"; reject "illuminators"]):
    Give this profession of the characters Stork, Olive, and Butterfly, who are all suspected of murder. A chapter of a novel is narrated by a gold coin, who discusses the earnings of people in this profession.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk]):
    Those miniaturists, along with the murdered miniaturist Elegant Effendi, are all characters in this author's novel My Name Is Red. This Turkish author also wrote The Museum of Innocence and Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: Satan [or Shaitan; accept the Devil or Iblis or Eblis; reject "Lucifer"]):
    Another unexpected narrator in My Name is Red is this character, who opens his chapter by praising "the smell of red peppers frying in olive oil." Olive draws pictures of this character and two dervishes for Enishte's book.

[B6] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A murderer with this profession is identified using the "courtesan method" of examining horse nostrils. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: miniaturist [accept illuminator; prompt on artist or illustrator or artisan or painter]):
    Name this profession of three characters nicknamed Olive, Stork, and Butterfly, who study under Master Osman and work on a secret project commissioned by the Sultan.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk]):
    The miniaturist Elegant Effendi is murdered for threatening to expose the Sultan's secret illuminated manuscript in My Name Is Red, a novel by this Turkish author who wrote about the poet Ka in Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: using a plume needle to blind himself [accept any answers involving putting a (turban) needle into his own eyes; prompt on blinding himself by asking "using what?"]):
    The legendary miniaturist Bihzad was said to have taken this specific action to avoid being forced to adopt a new painting style, inspiring Osman to also take this action while examining books in the Sultan's Treasury.

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ka and Ipek see the director of the Institute of Education being murdered at a pastry shop of this name in the novel Snow. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The New Life [or Yeni Hayat; accept New Life Pastry Shop]):
    Give this name. In a 1994 novel with this title by the same Turkish author, Osman becomes obsessed with a fictional book that has this title after Janan puts it down on his table.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk [Ferit Orhan Pamuk]):
    A reference to the earlier novel The New Life is among the many intertextual features of the novel Snow, which is by this Turkish author of My Name is Red.
  Part 3 (ans: The Museum of Innocence [or Masumiyet Muzesi]):
    While narrating part of Snow, the character Orhan Pamuk describes writing this real-life Pamuk novel about Kemal's love for Fusun (FUR-sun). Pamuk established a real-world equivalent of this novel's title place, which displays 4,213 cigarette butts.

[B8] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about historical fiction set in the Ottoman Empire:
  Part 1 (ans: The White Castle (by Orhan Pamuk)):
    In this novel, the vizier Hoja oversees a plot to kill a youthful Ottoman sultan. It climaxes at the Siege of Edirne, where a weapon created by the unnamed protagonist is tested on Doppio.
  Part 2 (ans: The Bridge on the Drina [or Na Drini cuprija]):
    Mehmed Pasha becomes the Grand Admiral of the Fleet after spending sixty years serving three different Ottoman sultans in this novel by the Bosnian author Ivo Andric ("AHN-drich").
  Part 3 (ans: Mika Waltari):
    This Finnish author wrote several novels featuring Ottoman sultans as characters, including The Dark Angel, which is set during Mehmet II's Siege of Constantinople, and The Wanderer, in which the protagonist Mikael serves Suleyman the Magnificent.

[B9] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's 83rd chapter contains a ticket to a corresponding real-life location, which includes a display filled with thousands of cigarette butts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Museum of Innocence [or Masumiyet Muzesi]):
    Name this novel in which Kemal turns Fusun's house into the title institution, which is filled with trinkets that remind him of her after she dies in a car crash.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    This author of The Museum of Innocence collected items for a physical Museum of Innocence that he established in the Cukurcuma ("choo-KOOR-joo-ma") district of Istanbul. His other novels include Snow and My Name is Red.
  Part 3 (ans: Elif Shafak):
    Pamuk talked about Turkish censorship while giving an interview in the Museum of Innocence to this author, who was tried for acknowledging the Armenian Genocide in The Bastard of Istanbul. She wrote about the recently-murdered prostitute Tequila Leila in her novel 10 Minutes 38 Seconds in this Strange World.

[B10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Article 301 of this country's penal code has been used to persecute several of its authors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Turkey):
    Name this country. A novel set in this country involves a radical named Blue being betrayed to its government and begins with the protagonist in a cafe witnessing the Director of the Institute of Education being shot.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    This author was charged under Article 301 with insulting Turkishness and the Turkish armed forces with their novel Snow. This author also wrote My Name is Red.
  Part 3 (ans: Elif Shafak):
    This other author was charged under Article 301 for discussing the Armenian genocide in The Bastard of Istanbul. This author used both Istanbul and Oxford as the setting for their novel Three Daughters of Eve.

[B11] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about authors who love to include themselves in their novels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Karl Ove Knausgard):
    From 2009 to 2011, this Norwegian author wrote a series of six autobiographical novels called My Struggle, often not censoring details of the private lives of his friends and family. The 6th book of this author's series includes a lengthy essay on Adolf Hitler.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    Ka's letters to Ipek in Snow are found by this Turkish author, who also wrote Museum of Innocence as well as Snow itself.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy):
    Childhood, Boyhood, and Youth comprise this author's autobiographical trilogy about a young boy named Nikolina. The Kingdom of God Is Within You is an expression of this author's religion-based principle of nonviolence.

[B12] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel, a character travels to his hometown and is cheered on by a crowd as he squeezes the hand of a statue of this man as part of his campaign to play him in a film. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this leader. Another portrayal of this leader comes to life in a waxwork museum in the novel Lying Down to Die, while pigeon-dropping-covered statues of this leader are imagined roaming the city in a novel in which a lawyer searches his half-brother's newspaper columns for news of his wife.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    Statues of Ataturk appear in this Turkish author's novels The Black Book and Snow. This Nobel Prize-winning author also wrote My Name is Red.
  Part 3 (ans: The Museum of Innocence [or Masumiyet Muzesi]):
    Kemal, the narrator of this other Pamuk novel, mentions a framed photo of Ataturk whose frown resembles that of his beloved, Fusun. In this novel, Kemal first observes Fusun while buying a handbag and goes on to collect objects she has used, such as cigarette butts and hair clips.

[B13] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A boy living in this city shares with the protagonist part of his science-fiction novel, in which the ghost of a man's dead friend appears on a television screen and tells him to avenge his murder. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kars, Turkey):
    Name this city, in which a man is murdered in the corner of a pastry shop following a conversation that is recounted in the chapter "I Hope I'm Not Taking Too Much of Your Time?"
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    The poet Ka investigates a suicide epidemic among religious girls in Kars in this author's novel Snow. This Turkish Nobel laureate also wrote the novels The Museum of Innocence and My Name Is Red.
  Part 3 (ans: Shahnameh [or Shahnama; or Shehname; or The Book of Kings]):
    To illustrate the dangers of Western influence, the terrorist Blue tells Ka that this work has largely been forgotten in Turkey and relates a story from this work in which a father unknowingly kills his son, Sohrab, who has become a hero in the enemy army.

[B14] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Science
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some more recent authors who wrote books whose titles are similar to that of La Vita Nuova.
  Part 1 (ans: Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk]):
    Osman and Janan read the title book and become hunted by Mehmet's father in this author's 1994 novel The New Life. The murdered miniaturist Elegant Effendi, a coin, Satan, and the color Red are some of the many odd narrators in a novel by this Nobel Laureate.
  Part 2 (ans: Bernard Malamud (the novel is The Assistant)):
    This author wrote about the English professor Seymour Levin moving to a small town in the state of Cascadia in his novel A New Life. In a novel by this author, the title character is hired to work at a grocery store he had earlier robbed after the elderly shopkeeper learns that the title character was living in poverty.

[B15] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work, this man described being drunk as if "my own ghost [was] trying to take its first solo walk outside the body." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    Name this Turkish author of My Name is Red who described Ka investigating a suicide epidemic after a ban on headscarves in Snow.
  Part 2 (ans: The Museum of Innocence):
    Pamuk wrote this novel about Kemal's love for his cousin Fusun which claims that "A woman who doesn't love cats is never going to make a man happy." Pamuk created a real-life version of this novel's title place.
  Part 3 (ans: Fusun's earring):
    Kemal describes this object falling onto blue sheets as the happiest moment of his life. This perpetually-lost item becomes the first object in the "Museum of Innocence" after Fusun dies in a car crash.

[B16] 2018 Geography Monstrosity (2018) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Leadin: Yasemin Baban [YAH-suh-mean bah-bahn] has rescued scores of golden retrievers in this city, from which she ships them to a nonprofit in Atlanta for placement with families. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Istanbul (accept Constantinople)):
    Name this city whose stray dog population also captured the attention of Mark Twain, who wrote in The Innocents Abroad, "They are the sorriest beasts that breathe - the most abject - the most pitiful."
  Part 2 (ans: Kadikoy):
    In this district on the Asian side of the Bosporus, cats are more prevalent than dogs. It includes the Moda neighborhood, home to late rocker Baris Manco [bah-REESE MAHN-cho], and is less touristy than cross-strait peers Taksim and Galata.
  Part 3 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    In his 2006 tribute Istanbul, this Turkish writer quotes a 1911 newspaper column claiming it was "impossible to walk down the street without hearing Grrrr!" His other works set in Istanbul include My Name Is Red.

[B17] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel opens with a chapter narrated by the recently-murdered miniaturist Elegant Effendi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: My Name is Red [or Benim Adim Kirmizi]):
    Name this metafictional mystery novel set during the reign of Sultan Murat III. Its other unusual narrators include a coin, Satan, and the title color.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk]):
    My Name is Red is a novel by this Turkish Nobel Laureate who used the Turkish headscarf controversy as the basis for some events in his 2002 novel Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: The White Castle [or Beyaz Kale]):
    This other Pamuk novel also has a historical setting, taking place primarily in 17th-century Istanbul. Its narrator, a traveling Italian scholar, is kidnapped and becomes the slave of the Ottoman scholar Hoja.

[B18] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While watching Rear Window, this novel's protagonist feels just like L. B. Jeffries, in that he is "caught up in a suffocating dream." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Museum of Innocence):
    Name this novel, whose protagonist Kemal begins a 44-day-long affair with the young salesgirl Fusun after returning a counterfeit purse.
  Part 2 (ans: Snow):
    In this other novel, the poet Ka returns to the town of Kars to investigate a string of suicides prompted by a ban on headscarves.
  Part 3 (ans: (Ferit) Orhan Pamuk):
    This Turkish author wrote The Museum of Innocence and Snow.

[B19] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the apprentices Butterfly, Stork, and Olive are the prime suspects in a murder. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: My Name is Red [or Benim Adım Kırmızı]):
    Name this novel whose first narrator is the corpse of Elegant Effendi. Master Osman blinds himself after seeing the sultan's treasury in this novel about a group of Ottoman miniaturists.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk [or Ferit Orhan Pamuk]):
    This Turkish author of My Name is Red won the 2006 Nobel Prize in Literature. Galip searches for his missing wife Ruya in this man's novel The Black Book.
  Part 3 (ans: The White Castle [or Beyaz Kale]):
    In this Pamuk novel, the narrator is captured by pirates and becomes a slave of the scientist Hoja, who looks exactly like him. Hoja is obsessed with creating a "war engine" to help the sultan capture this book's title location.

[B20] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this novel attempts to discover who killed his uncle by closely examining the nostrils of several illustrated horses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: My Name is Red (or Benim Kırmızı)):
    Name this novel about several workshop miniaturists who work for Sultan Murat III and must solve the murder of Elegant Effendi.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    My Name is Red is a novel by this Turkish author of Snow and The Museum of Innocence.
  Part 3 (ans: Yashar Kemal):
    This other Turkish author and frequent Nobel Prize candidate wrote The Drumming-Out and described a boy who escapes the abusive Abdi Agha and joins a roaming band of outlaws in Memed, My Hawk.

[B21] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel returns to Istanbul from political exile in Frankfurt to attend the funeral of his mother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Snow (accept Kar)):
    Name this novel in which Kadife and her lover Blue put on a performance of Kyd's The Spanish Tragedy.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    Snow is a novel by this Turkish Nobel laureate and author of The Museum of Innocence and The White Castle.
  Part 3 (ans: My Name is Red (accept Benim Adım Kırmızı)):
    This other Pamuk novel follows various miniaturists in the Ottoman Empire. Each chapter has a different narrator, including some very odd ones such as a coin and the corpse of a murdered person.

[B22] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the exciting intersection of science and world literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Calcutta Chromosome):
    In this mind-blowing Amitav Ghosh novel, the Ronald Ross expert Murugan posits the existence of a "counter-science" working to cause mutation-like leaps of understanding about malaria that allow Mangala to reincarnate herself.
  Part 2 (ans: Canada [Alice Munro wrote "The Moons of Jupiter."]):
    Ruth Ozeki, a novelist from this country, uses quantum mechanics to explain her connection to the suicidal Naoko's diary in A Tale for the Time Being. Another author from this country wrote about Janet's visit to a planetarium in "The Moons of Jupiter."
  Part 3 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    An enslaved Italian scholar named Hoja designs weapons for an Ottoman Sultan in this author's The White Castle. He also wrote about Ka's investigation of "head-scarf" suicides in Snow.

[B23] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Characters in this novel include the gossip columnist White Carnation and Lemon the canary, the namesake of the film company the protagonist founds to finance Blue Rain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Museum of Innocence [or Masumiyet Muzesi]):
    Name this novel about a man who breaks off his engagement after an affair with Fusun, whom he later visits about four nights a week for eight years and steals objects from. She later dies in a car crash on a drive through Europe after a fight about an earring.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    This character from The Museum of Innocence dances with Fusun at a party and later writes the novel. This color-loving Turkish author wrote about a group of Ottoman miniaturists in My Name is Red and about an Italian enslaved by Hoja in The White Castle.
  Part 3 (ans: Kiran Desai [prompt on Desai]):
    Pamuk is currently dating this Indian author, who described the villagers of Shahkot battling the Cinema Monkey's band of alcoholic langurs and trying to lure Sampath out of a tree in Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard. She also wrote The Inheritance of Loss.

[B24] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Black, Enishte's nephew, is in love with Shekure, Enishte's daughter. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: My Name is Red):
    Name the novel in which Elegant Effendi is a miniaturist who is murdered during the reign of Murad III in the Ottoman Empire.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    This Turkish author wrote My Name is Red as well as the novel focusing on Ka, Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: The Black Book):
    Galip, the protagonist of this other novel by Pamuk searches for this missing wife and brother-in-law, Ruya and Celal, respectively. He finds both of them shot dead near Aladdin's store.
