=== STOCK CLUES: Imogen Cunningham ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Martha Graham presses both her hands to her head in a 1931 photograph by this artist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Imogen Cunningham [prompt on Cunningham]):
    Name this photographer and member of Group f/64 (f-stop-64) who was known for close-up shots of flowers, such as Magnolia Blossom.
  Part 2 (ans: Yosemite National Park [prompt on California]):
    Judy Dater photographed Imogen Cunningham and Twinka Thiebaud at this location. One of Group f/64's founders stood on the "Diving Board" at this location to capture a jet-black sky in the photograph Monolith.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Depression [or the Dust Bowl; prompt on 1930s]):
    Group f/64 formed during this historical period, during which Dorothea Lange captured the photograph Migrant Mother.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Prints of this photographer's work feature Chinese stamps that phonetically spell out her name and translate in English to "Ideas Without End." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Imogen Cunningham ):
    Name this photographer of the Two Callas. This artist appears startled as she walks around a tree in a Judy Dater photograph.
  Part 2 (ans: Martha Graham (The rocking chair was for Appalachian Spring.)):
    Cunningham photographed this artist pressing her hands against her face. This subject of Barbara Morgan's photograph Letter to the World was given a rocking chair designed by Isamu Noguchi for one project.
  Part 3 (ans: street photography [or word forms such as being a street photographer]):
    Late in life, Imogen and the unrelated Bill Cunningham championed this style of photography. Vivian Maier produced over 150,000 photos in this candid style of photography in its namesake urban spaces.

[B3] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the New York Times photography series On the Street, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Cunningham [accept Bill Cunningham or Imogen Cunningham]):
    The series consisted of photos of NYC fashion taken by a street photographer named Bill with this surname. The photography group f/64 ("f stop 64") included a woman with this surname known for her close-ups of flowers like Magnolia Blossom.
  Part 2 (ans: blue [accept Pale Blue Dot]):
    Cunningham became famous for wearing a jacket of this color and riding a Schwinn bicycle while snapping photos for the series. A Voyager photograph partly titled for this color shows Earth as a distant "pale dot."
  Part 3 (ans: Greta Garbo [or Greta Lovisa Gustafsson]):
    On the Street was greenlit in 1978 after Cunningham unknowingly captured this then-elderly woman in a nutria coat. Edward Steichen photographed her with elbows jutting out as her hands push back her hair at the temples.

[B4] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each-answer the following about photography and the New York Subway system:
  Part 1 (ans: Keith (Allen) Haring):
    This artist first came to prominence after Tseng Kwong Chi photographed him using chalk to draw on blank ad spaces in the subway. This AIDS activist often placed pairs of short lines around his figures to indicate movement.
  Part 2 (ans: Weegee [or Arthur (Usher) Fellig]):
    This photographer's renowned speed partially came from his use of a portable darkroom in the subway. This man supposedly said that the secret to his technique was "f/8 ["f-stop 8"] and be there"
  Part 3 (ans: Cunningham (Bill Cunningham and Imogen Cunningham)):
    Photographer Editta Sherman was photographed in a heavily-graffitied subway car by a man with this last name, who did fashion and street photography for the New York Times until his death in 2016. A photographer with this last name was photographed alongside the model Twinka in Yosemite Park by Judy Dater.

[B5] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about photograms, which are images made without a camera, by putting objects directly on photosensitive paper and exposing them to sunlight.
  Part 1 (ans: Man Ray):
    This man named a class of photograms after himself, and made many of hands, springs, and rolls of film. His other photographs include "Le Violon d'Ingres," a photo of the back of a nude woman painted with violin holes.
  Part 2 (ans: Imogen Cunningham):
    This photographer took many photograms of plants and became known for botanical images. Judy Dater took a photograph in which this artist is surprised by the nude Twinka Thiebaud popping out from behind a tree.
  Part 3 (ans: f/64 [pronounced "f stop 64"]):
    Cunningham was a cofounder of this group along with Sonya Noskowiak, Willard Van Dyke, and Ansel Adams. It is named after a small aperture size which ensures clarity.

[B6] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Judy Dater photographed this artist peeking at a nude Twinka Thiebaud behind a tree. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Imogen Cunningham):
    Name this photographer, known for photographs of plants, especially magnolias. In this artist's photograph Triangles, the title shapes are formed by a woman's nude body in close-up.
  Part 2 (ans: Yosemite):
    The aforementioned Judy Dater photograph was taken in this national park. Ansel Adams took many photographs, including Moon and Half Dome, in this national park.
  Part 3 (ans: Edward Weston):
    Another member of Group f/64 was this photographer of Nautilus and Pepper No. 30. His future wife Charis Wilson modeled for his photograph Nude (Charis, Santa Monica).
