=== STOCK CLUES: Ralph Waldo Emerson ===
Tossup questions: 17 found, 64 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 22 found, 66 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Hinduism [accept Vaishnavism; accept Hindu caste system] (The first two poems are "Hamatreya" and "Brahma," both by Ralph Waldo Emerson. The book is Walden.)
  - A poem that draws on a text from this religion asks, "how am I theirs / if they cannot hold me / but I hold them?" at the end of an "Earth-Song." A figure from this religion titles a poem that describes "the subtle ways / I keep, and pass, and turn again" and claims "I am the doubter and the doubt." A book's narrator notes, "in the morning I bathe my intellect" in a text from this religion in the chapter "The Pond in Winter." A concept from this religion informed the author's conception of unity in the essay "The Over-Soul." A term referencing this religion's culture was coined by Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. to describe families like the Lowells and the Cabots.
  - For 10 points, the Transcendentalists were influenced by what Eastern religion whose society inspired the term "Boston Brahmin"? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - This author wrote of "landlords" who "steer the plough, but cannot steer their feet / Clear of the grave" in a poem that includes a four-stanza "Earth-Song." A poem by this author states "if the slain think he is slain, / They know not well the subtle ways / I keep, and pass, and turn again." This author, who was introduced to Vedic  thought by his aunt Mary Moody, wrote poems titled "Hamatreya" and "Brahma." An epigraph by Henry More opens an essay by this author, whose claim that (*) "within man is... the wise silence; the universal beauty... the eternal ONE" was possibly inspired by the idea of paramatman .
  - An essay by this author contains the maxim "Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist." For 10 points, name this Transcendentalist author of "The Over-Soul" and "Self-Reliance." [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - This poet chastised the "blindworm" who "prates / Of the culture of mankind" while his country harries a neighbor "with rifle and with knife" in a poem that laments "things are in the saddle, / And ride mankind." This poet argued that "it is not metres, but a metre-making argument that makes a poem" in an essay that casts language as "fossil poetry" created by "liberating gods." The earth asks, "How am I theirs, / If they cannot hold me, / But I hold them?" in a "song" embedded in a poem by this author.
  - In "simple (*) ignorance," the speaker of a poem by this author supposes that the "self-same Power that brought me there brought you." This poet's anti-war "Ode" is "inscribed" to W.
  - H.
  - Channing.
  - He drew on the Vishnu Purana for "Hamatreya," and on the Bhagavad Gita for a poem whose speaker claims to be the "doubter and the doubt," "Brahma." For 10 points, name this author of the poem "The Rhodora" and the essay "The Poet." [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: 1848 [prompt on '48 or the Forty-Eighters] (Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote that "Mexico will poison us.")
  - During this year's "Great Demonstration" in New York, orators recited songs and poems in French, Italian, and German.
  - Craft workers nicknamed for this year spread the Louisville Platform to combat the rise of a political movement responsible for electoral violence on Bloody Monday.
  - This is the first year covered in David Potter's The Impending Crisis.
  - An author's claim that territorial concessions finalized in this year "will poison us" bolstered the argument of the "Spot" Resolutions.
  - Barnburners left the Democratic Party in this year over opposition to a treaty negotiated by Nicholas Trist.
  - A popular sovereignty proponent from Michigan lost this year's presidential election to a war hero nicknamed "Old Rough and Ready." For 10 points, in what year did the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo end the Mexican-American War? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - This author inspires Will Andrews to travel to the title Kansas town in John Williams's novel Butcher's Crossing. [PWR]
  - Frederick Martin stole and distributed some of the letters this American author wrote to Thomas Carlyle over their 38-year correspondence. [PWR]
  - This author, who called dwelling too much on Christ the person one of the two defects of "Historical Christianity," declared in one essay that "To be great is to be misunderstood." This man, who is called "A Greek head on right Yankee shoulders" in (*) James Russell Lowell's A Fable for Critics, attacked the Unitarian beliefs of his Harvard audience in an 1838 speech and proclaimed "whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist." For 10 points, name this author of the "Divinity School Address" and the essay "Self-Reliance." [PWR,GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - In a poem, this author wrote "They know not well the subtle ways / I keep, and pass, and turn again" of a "red slayer" and "the slain." This author wrote "I am the doubter and the doubt" in the poem "Brahma." The speaker declares that "beauty is its own excuse for Being" in this author's poem "The Rhodora." This author, who claimed in a speech that moral sentiment was more important than following religious doctrine, wrote an essay in which he compared himself to a "transparent eyeball." In an essay, this author claimed that "Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist" and "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." For 10 points, name this Transcendentalist author of "Nature" and "Self-Reliance." [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Concord, Massachusetts [accept Battle of Concord; accept Concord grapes; accept "Concord Hymn"; accept Concord Female Anti-Slavery Society; prompt on the Battles of Lexington and Concord; prompt on CFASS] ("Concord Hymn" was written by Ralph Waldo Emerson.)
  - Sandra H. [PWR]
  - Petrulionis analyzed this town's abolitionist movement in To Set this World Right, which highlights an 1837 speaking tour by the Grimke sisters hosted by Mary Brooks of this town's women's antislavery society.
  - During a battle in this town, a local resident convinced soldiers to put out a fire they had started while searching for munitions buried under plowed cropland. [PWR]
  - Ephraim Wales Bull developed a fruit named for this town that is often used for jelly. [PWR]
  - A battle in this town began when Isaac Davis led Acton (*) minutemen over the Old North Bridge, which a poem titled this town's "hymn" described as the "shot heard round the world." Henry David Thoreau lived by this Massachusetts town at Walden Pond. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, the opening battles of the Revolutionary War are named for Lexington and what town? [GIVE]

[T8] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson (The first sentence refers to the essay "The Poet.")
  - This author used his own poem about "Olympian bards who sung / Divine ideas below" to begin an essay defining genius as "the activity which repairs the decay of things." He's not Walt Whitman or Thomas Carlyle, but this author's essays on Shakespeare, Goethe, and five other "great men" were credited by F.
  - O. [PWR]
  - Matthiessen with sparking a literary "renaissance." Another essay by this author of (*) Representative Men discusses becoming "a transparent eye-ball" in order to obtain solitude.
  - This author wrote an essay which describes "foolish consistency" as "the hobgoblin of little minds" and proclaims "Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist." For 10 points, name this Transcendentalist author of "Nature" and "Self-Reliance." [GIVE]

[T9] 2022 DECAF (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Emerson String Quartet [accept Ralph Waldo Emerson]
  - The music of John Harbison, Richard Wernick, and Gunther Schuller is featured on this ensemble's album American Contemporaries. [PWR]
  - Disney's The Little Matchgirl is set to the music of this ensemble, who featured Dvorak on an album titled Old World - New World.
  - Columbia re-released a recording of another ensemble playing Brahms' opus 34 with Leon Fleisher after he recorded the same piece with this ensemble on Deutsche Grammophon. [PWR]
  - This ensemble names an "institute" at Stony Brook University, where they are currently in residence.
  - A 1990 Deutsche Grammophon recording of the (*) Bartok string quartets won this ensemble their first of nine Grammys, more than any other classical ensemble. [PWR]
  - Violinists Philip Setzer and Eugene Drucker are founding members of this quartet, which has announced its intention to disband in 2023, nearly half a century after it was formed by (*) Juilliard students.
  - For 10 points, identify this string quartet named in honor of a transcendentalist writer. [GIVE]

[T10] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - A passage by this author argues that the same person can be both a poet and a laborer, unlike the Egyptian belief in two pairs of eyes. [PWR]
  - This author claimed that, just like no air-pump can create a perfect vacuum, no book from the past can perfectly represent modern times, in an essay that casts its title figure as the "world's eye" and the "world's heart." This author claimed that "Americans have many virtues, but they have not Faith and Hope" in the essay (*) "Man the Reformer." The essay "Literary Ethics" extends this author's theme that academics should act as "Man Thinking" instead of a "bookworm." This author argued that "Historical Christianity" fails to teach the "doctrine of the soul" in a lecture that attacked Unitarianism, which he read to a graduating class at Harvard. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, "The American Scholar" and the "Divinity School Address" were delivered by what Transcendentalist author? [GIVE]

[T11] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Cole (The essay was by Ralph Waldo Emerson. The novel is The Last of the Mohicans.)
  - A 2021 Tyler Green book examines the concurrent creation of a painting by this artist and an essay that describes a similar landscape made up of "twenty or thirty farms." This artist's Landscape with Figures is one of four paintings based on a novel that this artist exhibited at the National Gallery of Design.
  - A woman falls at a shrine of Saint Mary in this artist's painting of the poem Il Penseroso.
  - This artist's frequent patron Luman Reed commissioned a work by them set "after a Thunderstorm" viewed from Mount Holyoke.
  - This artist stands on an outcrop with William Cullen Bryant in Asher Durand's painting Kindred Spirits.
  - A craggy mountaintop recurs in a series of five paintings by this artist bookended by The Savage State and Desolation.
  - For 10 points, name this Hudson River School painter of The Oxbow and The Course of Empire. [GIVE]

[T12] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson AND Henry David Thoreau
  - The "oxymoronic" relationship between these two authors is explored in a John T.
  - Lysaker-edited anthology titled for them as "figures of friendship." In a bittersweet eulogy for one of these authors, the other lamented that, "instead of engineering for [his entire country, the deceased] was the captain of a huckleberry-party." At the age of 19, one of these authors first read the other's description of the wonder that men would feel if the stars only appeared "one night in a thousand years." These authors are the subjects of a pair of biographies written by Robert D. [PWR]
  - Richardson, the husband of (*) Annie Dillard.
  - The younger of these authors spent three years as a tutor to the other's children in his Concord home.
  - These authors first met at Harvard in 1837, where the older of them delivered his "Divinity School Address" the following year.
  - For 10 points, identify both of these authors, one of whom wrote "Self-Reliance" and helped finance the other's cabin on Walden Pond. [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Ellison (do not accept Ralph Waldo Emerson)
  - This man described his passion for audio systems in "Living with Music", and in one of his short stories, a vulture causes a plane to crash into a farm field. [PWR]
  - This author's rebuttal of Irving Howe's "Black Boys and Native Sons" is published in Shadow and Act.
  - In addition to "Flying Home," this man wrote a novel whose protagonist tries to "yes" the Brotherhood to death, having been kicked out of college for introducing (*) Mr.
  - Norton to Jim Trueblood.
  - That character maims Ras the Exhorter during a riot, and beats up a man for bumping into him as though he cannot be seen.
  - For 10 points, the "Battle Royal" chapter opens Invisible Man, a novel by what American writer? [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - This author wrote that "the only sin is limitation" in a consideration of intellectual progress that maintains "our life is an apprenticeship to the truth, that around" each of the title figures "another can be drawn." In another work, this author argued that it makes no difference if his impulses come from heaven or hell, claiming "if I am the Devil's child, I will live then from the Devil." He wrote "dream delivers us to dream, and there is no end to illusion" in an essay that begins by describing his grief at the death of his son Waldo.
  - One of his essays argues that "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds" and claims "whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist." For 10 points, name this American essayist of "Circles," "Experience," and "Self-Reliance." [GIVE]

[T15] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - In one essay, this thinker described an unscrupulous but powerful class of men full of "coarse energy" he called the "bruisers." At the end of another essay, he imagined an ideal artist who could "walk the world over" and be unable "to find a condition inopportune or ignoble." This thinker described the gift of "a wicked dollar which by and by I shall have the manhood to withhold" in an essay instructing the reader to "speak what you think now in hard words, and tomorrow speak what tomorrow thinks in hard words again." That essay by this thinker proposes that "to be great is to be misunderstood" and argues, "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." For 10 points, name this American author of "The Poet" and "Self-Reliance." [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - One poem by this author closes "The self-same power that brought me here brought you" and is addressed to a "rival of the rose" and "purple shrub" that the narrator finds in a forest.
  - A different poem by this author is set "On this green bank, by this soft stream" where a votive stone is put down.
  - He wrote a poem about a creature that meditates on "the fate of the man-child the meaning of man" before asking "Who'll tell me my secret?" This author of "The Sphinx" created a speaker who holds the title objects to the sun and states "they are drops of frozen wine [that] from Eden's vats that run." In addition to writing "Rubies" and "The Rhodora," he set another of his poems "by the rude bridge that arched the flood ... where once, the embattled farmers stood and fired the shot heard round the world." For 10 points, identify this poet of "The Concord Hymn," who also wrote "Self-Reliance" and "The Oversoul." [GIVE]

[T17] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson
  - This poet wrote, "Wait, I prithee, till I come within earshot of thy hum--all without is martyrdom," in a poem addressing a "yellow-breeched philosopher," "The Humble-Bee." The speaker of another of his poems states, "I am the doubter and the doubt," before instructing the "meek lover of the good" to "find me, and turn thy back on heaven." This poet of "Brahma" coined the phrase "shot heard round the world" in his "Concord Hymn." For 10 points, name this American poet also known for essays such as "Experience," "The Over-Soul," and "Self-Reliance." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Cornel West claimed that this thinker initiated the "American Evasion of Philosophy" that is the basis of "American pragmatism." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Name this transcendentalist author of "The Over-Soul" who described becoming a "transparent eye-ball" in the presence of nature.
  Part 2 (ans: Paramatman):
    Emerson's description of "The Over-Soul" as "universal beauty, to which every part and particle is equally related, the eternal ONE" was likely inspired by this term from Vedic philosophy, often translated as "primordial self" or "self beyond."
  Part 3 (ans: deep ecology):
    The unity with nature sought by transcendentalists like Emerson, Thoreau, and Aldo Leopold inspired this contemporary ecosophical movement. This movement holds that nature is intrinsically valuable, regardless of its benefits to humanity.

[B2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This culture's "infinity-seeking" tendencies inspired Gothic art, according to a theory in which it is the most recent Hochkultur. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Faustian culture [or Faustische Kultur]):
    Name this culture which developed around 1000 CE, displacing the Magian culture of the Middle East and the Apollonian culture of the Romans, according to Oswald Spengler's The Decline of The West.
  Part 2 (ans: The Myth of Sisyphus [or Le mythe de Sisyphe]):
    This essay notes that Faust "believed in God enough to sell himself to the Devil" in a section contrasting him with Don Juan, whom this essay analyzes alongside "the actor" and "the conqueror."
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    This thinker's essays "Representative Men" praised the second part of Goethe's Faust as "a philosophy of literature set in poetry." His other essays, such as "Nature" and "The Over-Soul," espoused transcendentalism.

[B3] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's poem "Yourself" addresses a corpse, who "now...hear[s] us talk as strangers, met / above the room wherein you lie abed". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jones Very):
    Name this 19th-century American author of poems including "The Garden" and "The Dead". This author was briefly institutionalized after declaring themself to be the Second Coming of Christ.
  Part 2 (ans: Shakespearean sonnets [or Elizabethan sonnets]):
    Very was inspired by his study of Shakespeare to write poems in this form. One of Shakespeare's poems in this form begins "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?".
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Very is described as "a man...under a certain religious frenzy" in an essay on "Friendship" by this author. This author expressed unorthodox religious views in their "Divinity School Address" and in poems including "Brahman."

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: George Pope Morris's most famous poem implores the title character to spare one of these objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: oak tree [prompt on tree] (The poems are "Woodman, Spare that Tree" and "The Old Oaken Bucket.")):
    Name this object that appears in the title of a Samuel Woodworth poem about his childhood memory of drinking from an old bucket. Emily Dickinson's poem "I robbed the woods" ends by asking what one of these objects will say.
  Part 2 (ans: John Greenleaf Whittier):
    Dorothea Dix and Pedro II were among the many visitors to this poet's estate Oak Knoll. This "fireside poet" wrote the poems "Maud Muller" and Snow-Bound: A Winter Idyl.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    This American author described a "[s]mall bat and wren" who "[h]ouse in the oak" in his ode to abolitionist W. H. Channing. The line "beauty is its own excuse for Being" appears in this author's poem "The Rhodora."

[B5] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A letter mailed from Concord, Massachusetts describes this "wonderful gift" of a book as the "most extraordinary piece of wit and wisdom that America has yet contributed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leaves of Grass):
    Name this "fortifying and encouraging" book extolled in a letter that warmly remarks, "I greet you at the beginning of a great career, which yet must have had a long foreground somewhere, for such a start."
  Part 2 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    That letter was by this transcendentalist, whose 1844 essay "The Poet" moved Whitman to write Leaves of Grass with its call to action for a new poetic genius in America. This author wrote the essay "Self-Reliance."
  Part 3 (ans: Master [accept Master letters]):
    In his reply to Emerson, Whitman refers to him as a "dear friend" and by this title. A set of three passionate letters by Emily Dickinson are enigmatically addressed to an anonymous figure with this title.

[B6] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's idea of an "original relation" to nature inspires Will Andrews to join a group of Kansas buffalo hunters in John Williams's novel Butcher's Crossing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Name this author who imagined himself as a "transparent eye-ball" who absorbs life's beauty in the 1836 essay "Nature."
  Part 2 (ans: Harvard University [or Harvard College; prompt on Cambridge]):
    In Butcher's Crossing, Will leaves this place to find nature. Emerson praised the "Man Thinking" ideal and equated the maxims "know thyself" and "study nature" in his speech "The American Scholar," given at this place.
  Part 3 (ans:  Housekeeping):
    Marilynne Robinson's studies of Transcendentalist metaphor informed this debut novel of hers, in which Ruthie narrates her upbringing in Fingerbone, Idaho, with her eccentric aunt Sylvie in a style akin to Emerson's "transparent eyeball."

[B7] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A. R. Ammons analogized poetry to this activity in a 1967 essay that calls it an "externalization of an interior seeking" that "turns... and eventually returns." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: walking [or equivalents like perambulation; accept "A Poem is a Walk"; prompt on movement or locomotion or equivalents]):
    Name this activity that releases the speaker "from forms, / from the perpendiculars" in the poem "Corsons Inlet." It ends by noting, as "Scope eludes [his] grasp," tomorrow this activity will be made anew.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost] (The poem is "The Wood-Pile.")):
    To argue that "A Poem is a Walk," A. R. Ammons quotes from a poem by this author, whose speaker walks into a frozen swamp and reflects on the "slow smokeless burning of decay" of a pile of wood.
  Part 3 (ans: transcendentalism [or word forms like transcendental] (Henry David Thoreau wrote "Walking" and Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote "Nature.")):
    Harold Bloom called Ammons "the most direct" poet since Frost to emulate this 19th-century movement, which included the authors of the essays "Walking" and "Nature."

[B8] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This thinker, who analyzed such films as The Lady Eve and His Girl Friday as "comedies of remarriage," pioneered linguistic film theory in The World Viewed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stanley Louis Cavell):
    Name this philosopher who analyzed film and literature in his collection Must We Mean What We Say? Wittgenstein, Skepticism, Morality, and Tragedy are examined in his opus The Claim of Reason.
  Part 2 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson [accept Emersonian moral perfectionism]):
    Cavell named a form of "perfectionism" centered on continuous self-development after this American essayist of "The Over-Soul" and "Self-Reliance."
  Part 3 (ans: Beyond Good and Evil: A Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future [or Jenseits von Gut und Bose: Vorspiel einer Philosophie der Zukunft] (whose sequel is On the Genealogy of Morality)):
    Thomas Hurka argued that Nietzsche promoted a perfectionism centered on the "will to power" in this book that praises "free spirits." It introduced the concepts of master and slave moralities whose historical development is investigated in its sequel.

[B9] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Yusef Komunyakaa envisioned people whose "guitars & harmonicas chas[ed] away ghosts" and whose "dream-footed work rattled their bones" in a poem titled for an "African" one of these places. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a burying ground [or burial ground; accept "The Indian Burying Ground" or "The African Burial Ground"; prompt on answers like cemetery or graveyard]):
    Name this type of place, which titles a poem that claims, "Reason's self shall bow the knee / to shadows and delusions here" and begins, "In spite of all the learned have said, / I still my old opinion keep."
  Part 2 (ans: American Revolutionary War [or the American Revolution]):
    Philip Freneau's poem "The Indian Burying Ground" was written in the aftermath of this conflict, whose first battle is memorialized in the poem "Concord Hymn."
  Part 3 (ans: nature (The essay is "Nature" by Ralph Waldo Emerson.)):
    Freneau's Sketches of American History claims that the Indians "were here long before ye all" and that their "druggist was [this concept]." An essay titled for this concept introduces the "transparent eyeball" metaphor.

[B10] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's speaker observes "thousands of tree swallows" that are "a congregation / rich with entropy: nevertheless, separable, noticeable / as one event, / not chaos." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Corsons Inlet [by A.R. Ammons]):
    There are "dunes of motion, / organizations of grass, white sandy paths of remembrance" in the title location of what free verse poem that uses the shaping of its lines to evoke the coast?
  Part 2 (ans: walking [accept "Walking Around"; accept equivalents such as strolling]):
    The beginning and the ending of "Corsons Inlet" mention the speaker performing this action, which causes the thoughts in the poem. "It so happens I am sick of being a man" opens a Pablo Neruda poem about this action, a French word for which inspired the term "flaneur."
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    A.R. Ammons claimed that "Corsons Inlet" was inspired by the advice to record honest thoughts in this author's essay "Nature." Critics have linked Ammon's capitalization of the word "Overall" in "Corsons Inlet" to this earlier Transcendentalist author's "Oversoul."

[B11] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem inspired by this religion, the speakers "avarice cooled" upon hearing the Earth Song, a song inside the poem in which the Earth, speaking of dead humans, asks "How am I theirs, / If they cannot hold me, / But I hold them?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hinduism):
    Name this religion. Another poem by the same author, inspired by this religion, commands a "meek lover of the good" to find the title "red slayer."
  Part 2 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Both of those poems, "Hamatreya" and "Brahma," are by this Transcendentalist author of the essays "Self-Reliance" and "Nature."
  Part 3 (ans: Lowell [accept James Russell Lowell or Robert Lowell; the unnamed poem is "For the Union Dead"]):
    Emerson was part of an 1858 venture to the Adirondacks known as the Philosophers Camp, which was led by a poet with this last name who wrote A Fable for Critics. Another poet with this last name described drained faces of Negro school-children" that rise "like balloons" in a poem about a stature near a building that stands in a "Sahara of snow" in South Boston.

[B12] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of this collection asks an "expert on guppy menopause" the question "But can it really be said that the guppy cares about being orange?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bluets):
    Name this 2009 collection of lyric poetry by Maggie Nelson. It opens with the line "Suppose I were to begin by saying that I had fallen in love with a color."
  Part 2 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    In Bluets, Nelson quotes many lines written by this man, such as "I grieve that grief can teach me nothing" from his essay "Experience." This Transcendentalist wrote "Self-Reliance" and was friends with Henry David Thoreau.
  Part 3 (ans: Harmonium [by Wallace Stevens]):
    Nelson writes "And please don't talk to me about 'things as they are' being changed upon any 'blue guitar,'" a reference to the poem "The Man with the Blue Guitar." That poem, along with "The Idea of Order at Key West," was originally published in this collection.

[B13] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's poem "The Rhodora" describes a "rival of the rose" brought into the world by the "self-same Power" that brought the speaker. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Name this author who set a poem about the Revolutionary War by a "rude bridge that arched the flood" where "embattled farmers... fired the shot heard round the world."
  Part 2 (ans: Hinduism):
    Emerson included an "Earth-Song" in his poem "Hamatreya," which was inspired by this religion whose scriptures include the Bhagavad Gita.
  Part 3 (ans: "turn again"):
    The speaker of Emerson's "Brahma" claims the "red slayer" and "the slain" don't know the "ways I keep, and pass" and perform this two-word action. T. S. Eliot's "Ash Wednesday" opens, "Because I do not hope" to perform this two-word action.

[B14] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This philosopher described his response to the skeptic as "admitting that our relation to the world is not one of knowing." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stanley (Louis) Cavell):
    Name this philosopher, who attempted to show how traditional epistemologists cannot "mean what they say." He opposed what he called the Malcolm-Albritton reading of Wittgenstein on "criteria" in his most famous book.
  Part 2 (ans: language [accept ordinary language philosophy or Language, Truth, and Logic]):
    Cavell was a major figure in the school of philosophy named for the "ordinary" type of this phenomenon. A.J. Ayer paired this phenomenon with "truth" and "logic."
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    In his book Conditions Handsome and Unhandsome, Cavell attempted to read this other philosopher as a believer in "Perfectionism." Cavell compared him to Wittgenstein in This New Yet Unapproachable America.

[B15] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The book Essays Before a Sonata says that, if this author were a composer, he would not have Debussy's "fondness for trying to blow a sensuous atmosphere from his own voluptuous cheeks." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Name this author who inspired an unfinished concerto completed by David G. Porter. A movement inspired by this author's writings includes sections which the composer marked "verse" and "prose."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles (Edward) Ives):
    Ralph Waldo Emerson and his fellow Transcendentalist writers inspired this composer's Concord Sonata.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry (Dixon) Cowell):
    The first major study to explore the influence of Transcendentalism on Ives was written by this composer and his wife Sidney. This composer experimented with tone clusters in pieces like The Tides of Manaunaun.

[B16] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the first poem of this collection, a tavern keeper who "knew / the ways of the road" advises the speaker to spill red wine on his prayer carpet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Divan [or Diwan]):
    Identify this volume containing the collected poems of the poet Hafez, titled for the generic Persian, Urdu, or Arabic word for any such single-author collection.
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe):
    Several poems directly addressed to Hafez appear in this German poet's West-Eastern Divan, written several decades after his verse drama Faust.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    This American author wrote that Hafez adds to "Pindar, Anacreon, Horace and Burns, the insight of a mystic" in his essay on Persian Poetry. He declared that "if eyes were made for seeing, / Then beauty is its own excuse for Being" in his poem "The Rhodora."

[B17] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This thinker extended his idea of the "false self" to a theory of parenting that can accommodate a child's eventual loss of omnipotence and disillusionment with the world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: D. W. Winnicott [or Donald Woods Winnicott]):
    Name this pediatrician and psychologist who came up with the idea of the "good enough parent."
  Part 2 (ans: Maggie Nelson):
    This contemporary writer discusses the parenting advice of D. W. Winnicott in her memoir The Argonauts, which also describes the female-to-male transition of her husband, Harry Dodge. She also wrote the prose poetry collection Bluets.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Bluets quotes the essay "Experience" by this American author, whose other essays include "Nature" and "The Over-Soul."

[B18] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this book recalls his trip to the Mammoth Cave in its final essay, "Illusions." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Conduct of Life):
    Name this set of nine essays, including "Fate," "Wealth" and "Behavior."
  Part 2 (ans: "Nature"):
    The penultimate essay from The Conduct of Life, "Beauty," is similar to this essay by the same author, which discusses the title phenomenon in relation to Commodity, Beauty, Language and Discipline.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    The Conduct of Life and "Nature" are by this transcendentalist essayist, who also wrote "Self-Reliance."

[B19] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Its author wrote the poem "Uriel" to ridicule himself for refraining from public debate after making this speech. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Divinity School Address"):
    Identify this speech, given at Harvard, in which its author attacks the misapplication of Jesus's teachings to the "Cultus" or the established worship of the civilized world. It closes with a wish for a new Teacher to come who will "see the world to be a mirror of the soul."
  Part 2 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    This author of "The American Scholar" and "Self-Reliance" laid the groundwork for the Transcendental movement with his "The Divinity School Address."
  Part 3 (ans: Amos Bronson Alcott [prompt on "Alcott"]):
    This other Transcendental philosopher started the vegetarian Fruitlands community to realize his ideas. Much of his transcendentalist writing was decried as "unpublishable" by Emerson.

[B20] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: She describes the "baby rivers and little towns, each with its abbey or its cathedral" of the title entity before comparing it to other countries such as Greece, France, and America in "England." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marianne Moore):
    Name this American writer who stated "I, too, dislike it," when describing the title art form before noting that reading "with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers" "a place for the genuine" in "Poetry."
  Part 2 (ans: The Dial):
    Following the resignation of Scofield Thayer, Moore edited this magazine, which during the 1920s became a mouthpiece for the Modernism movement. Margaret Fuller was its first editor.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    From 1840 until 1844, the Dial served to distribute the writings of those in the Transcendentalist movement, including this author of The Over-Soul and Self-Reliance.

[B21] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This work calls the "mind of the Past" one of the three primary influences for a proper education and suggests that "actions past by" are "a loss of power." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The American Scholar"):
    Name this work that contrasts the victim of society, the "mere thinker," with Man Thinking.
  Part 2 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    "The American Scholar" was a speech given by this man. In the speech, he suggests that Nature is one of the primary inspirations for a man's development, in reference to his essay Nature.
  Part 3 (ans: "Concord Hymn"):
    Emerson also wrote this poem that asks "Time and Nature" to "gently spare The shaft we raise to them and thee." It is set where "the embattled farmers stood, And fired the shot heard round the world."

[B22] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Robert Bly translated this author's poems in his collection The Angels Knocking on the Tavern Door. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hafez):
    Name this 14th century author from Shiraz, who wrote many love poems to Shakh-e Nabat. He took a name meaning "one who has memorized the Qur'an by heart," and collected his poetry in his Divan.
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe):
    Reading Hafez inspired this German author to write his West-Eastern Divan. Another of his poems asks "Do you know the land where the lemon trees blossom?"
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    This transcendentalist was one of the first writers to translate the poems of Hafez into English. His reading of the Vedas inspired his poem "Brahma" and his essay "The Oversoul."
