=== STOCK CLUES: Tadao Ando ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Tadao Ando [or Ando Tadao]
  - In one project by this architect, an artificial hill planted with lavender surrounds a colossal Buddha statue.
  - This architect built a house with a 4x4  design for one client after an earthquake, then replicated the house in wood on the neighboring plot.
  - A 1976 row house by this architect has no exterior windows on its facade.
  - This architect built a concrete art gallery at the centre of a Malibu mansion later bought for $200 million by Beyonce, and another mansion by this architect was gutted by Kanye West.
  - In a design by this architect that employs "borrowed scenery," a floor-to-ceiling window is level with a reflecting pool with a cross in the center.
  - That chapel was followed by one in which openings in the cast-concrete walls form the shape of a cross.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese architect who designed Osaka's Church of the Light. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Japan [or Nihon or Nihon-koku; or Nippon or Nippon-koku] (The transparent toilets were designed by Shigeru Ban. The Church of the Light is by Tadao Ando.)
  - The US Embassy in this country is one of the few buildings to credit the Black architect Norma Merrick Sklarek as having designed it with Cesar Pelli.
  - In 2020, an architect from this country unveiled transparent glass toilet stalls whose walls turn opaque if occupied.
  - An architect from this country designed the glass roof of the Metz  Centre Pompidou.
  - An architect from this country allowed sunshine to penetrate a crucifix-shaped gap in the altar of his Church of the Light.
  - An architect from this country arranged shipping containers as walls of the Christchurch Cardboard Cathedral and often uses recyclable materials like paper.
  - A black lintel and two vermilion pillars often adorn religious structures from this country called torii gates.
  - For 10 points, Shigeru Ban designed earthquake shelters for what country's city of Kobe? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architectural movement is a prominent example of biomimetic architecture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Metabolism [accept word forms]):
    Name this Japanese movement whose ideas were tested in Kenzo Tange's studio. Prominent artworks from this movement include the Nakagin Capsule Tower.
  Part 2 (ans: concrete):
    Metabolism makes heavy use of this material. Donald Judd made 15 untitled works in this material.
  Part 3 (ans: Tadao Ando):
    Though not a part of the Metabolist movement, this other Japanese architect used reinforced concrete to create his Church of the Light.

[B2] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Constructivist art inspired the sharply angular overhang of this museum's concrete facade. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: MAXXI [accept Museo nazionale delle arti del XXI secolo; accept Italy's National Museum of 21st Century Arts; prompt on National Museum of 21st Century Arts] (by Zaha Hadid)):
    Name this parametricist museum built on top of a former military barracks. This museum's stark white interior contrasts with its weaving and underlit black staircases, which lie below a ceiling of flowing concrete beams and louvered skylights.
  Part 2 (ans: Tadao Ando [or Ando Tadao]):
    This architect's subterranean Chichu Art Museum lets in light through concrete-reinforced geometric openings, a technique he also used in his Church of the Light.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    Lina Bo Bardi designed an art museum in this country without interior walls that displays painting on crystal easels throughout its open plan. Oscar Niemeyer designed many buildings in this country's planned capital.

[B3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This country was home to a Marxist, biologically themed architectural movement known as Metabolism that emphasized megastructures inspired by organic growth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nippon; or Nihonkoku] {the architect is Tadao Ando}):
    Name this country where a Pritzker-Prize-winning architect designed a townhouse with a completely blank prefabricated concrete facade and a rural Protestant church with a thin cross-shaped window as its main light source.
  Part 2 (ans: The Nakagin Capsule Tower Building):
    Kisho Kurokawa designed this metabolist tower that was disassembled in 2022 after preservation efforts failed. This building features a number of compact concrete living spaces with circular windows "plugged into" a central structure.
  Part 3 (ans: Chicago, Illinois):
    Kurokawa's capsule tower was inspired by Bertrand Goldberg's Marina City towers in this American city, where Fazlur Khan developed the "bundled tube" system to enable the construction of ultra-tall buildings like the Sears Tower and John Hancock Center.

[B4] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Abbot Suger ("soo-ZHAIR") wrote that "the dull mind rises to truth through that which is material" to justify his use of natural light in the design of these buildings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gothic cathedrals [accept churches]):
    Name these buildings. Flying buttresses allowed massive windows to be installed in Gothic examples of these places, which let brilliant light stream into examples of them like Notre Dame.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    This much more modern architect emphasized allowing in natural light in his design for California's Crystal Cathedral. He also designed the Glass House, where he lived with his partner David Whitney for 45 years.
  Part 3 (ans: Tadao Ando [or Ando Tadao]):
    This modern Japanese architect allowed light to stream in through a cross cut in the concrete wall of his Church of the Light. Works by Hiroki Oda are displayed in this architect's "Daylight Museum."

[B5] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Junya Ishigami designed a very thin one of these buildings for a valley in China, and a destroyed one of these buildings nicknamed "The Hollow Tooth" is located in Breitscheidplatz in Berlin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: church):
    Name this generic type of building, made up of parts such as the nave, the sanctuary, and the vestry.
  Part 2 (ans: Tadao Ando):
    This architect designed "The Church of the Light" in Ibaraki, which uses scaffolding planks for pews and receives natural light from a cross-shaped slit on the back wall. He also designed the Pulitzer Art Foundation and the museum 21_21 Design Sight.
  Part 3 (ans: Oscar Niemeyer):
    Another iconic church, the crown-shaped cathedral of Brasilia, was designed by this man, the chief architect of the city. This man also designed the United Nations headquarters in New York.

[B6] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A newly-established museum in this city is topped by a prominent web-patterned dome, which is meant to resemble rays of sunlight passing through date palm fronds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abu Dhabi):
    Name this capital city whose Saadiyat Island is the site of a new branch of the Louvre designed by Jean Nouvel. Zaha Hadid's Sheikh Zayed Bridge was built in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Goldberg]):
    The cultural complex on Saadiyat Island will also contain a branch of the Guggenheim Museum designed by this architect, who also designed the Guggenheim Bilbao.
  Part 3 (ans: Tadao Ando [or Ando Tadao]):
    A third museum on Saadiyat is a maritime museum designed by this self-taught architect who won the 1995 Pritzker Prize. Light peers through a cross-shaped opening in a concrete wall in his Church of the Light.

[B7] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man claimed that the reinforced concrete of one of his buildings helped him to control illumination. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tadao Ando):
    Name this designer of a holy building that, during the morning, is illuminated naturally through the shape of a crucifix that is left open in its east wall. He designed that Church of the Light in Osaka.
  Part 2 (ans: Renzo Piano):
    This man designed the Kansai International Airport in Osaka, but collaborated with Richard Rogers on his best-known work.
  Part 3 (ans: Pompidou Center):
    Piano and Richard Rogers designed this Paris building that includes a modern art museum and a library. It was named for a former French president and includes color-coded pipes.

[B8] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect utilized ferroconcrete "leaves" on the roof of the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Renzo Piano):
    Name this Pritzker Prize-winning architect who co-designed the Pompidou Centre with Richard Rogers.
  Part 2 (ans: airport):
    Piano is also known for designing one of these buildings on an artificial island near Osaka, Japan. Eero Saarinen designed the main terminal of one named after John Foster Dulles in Washington, D.C.
  Part 3 (ans: Tadao Ando [accept names in either order]):
    Another famous building in Osaka is the Azuma House, a personal residence designed by this Japanese architect of the concrete Church of the Light, who won the Pritzker Prize in 1995.
