=== STOCK CLUES: Tarkovsky ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 35 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Arseny Tarkovsky [prompt on Tarkovsky; prompt on A. Tarkovsky; prompt on Andrei Tarkovsky's father] (Tarkovsky had a romantic relationship with Marina Tsvetaeva.)
  - This author's translations of the poet Kemine  led to his romance with an older woman, who included a line from this author's poem "The Table is Set for Six" as the epigraph to the last poem she wrote before her 1941 suicide by hanging.
  - Philip Metres's translations of this author collected in I Burned at the Feast includes the poem "Life, Life," which a film accompanies with newsreel footage of an army crossing a lake during a border conflict.
  - Within a film's narrative, a poem by this real-life author that opens, "now summer is gone" and includes the refrain "there has to be more" is said to have been written by the protagonist's dead brother.
  - This author (*) narrates his poetry in the voiceover to a 1975 film featuring a shot in which a woman levitates over a bed.
  - The book Sculpting in Time discusses this author's poetry, including one read in a film by Porcupine's brother in the Zone.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose poetry is read in his son's films Mirror and Stalker. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Roadside Picnic [or Piknik na obochine] (Andrei Tarkovsky directed Stalker.)
  - In the last scene of this novel, a long-haired "pretty boy" walks into a quarry shouting "happiness, free, for everyone!" before his sudden death.
  - An apartment dinner scene in this novel is punctuated by the reanimated corpse of the protagonist's father struggling to take a drink.
  - In this novel, the protagonist's daughter slowly loses her language ability due to a mutation that gives her golden fur.
  - After "hell slime" destroys the legs of "Vulture" Burbridge, the protagonist of this novel learns the way to a wish-granting Golden Sphere that he obtains by sacrificing Burbridge's son to the "grinder." This novel begins with the Institute scientist Kirill and Red Schuhart  entering a wasteland near Harmont to search for alien artifacts.
  - For 10 points, the film Stalker adapts the setting of the Zone from what novel by the Strugatsky brothers? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andrei (Arsenyevich)  Tarkovsky
  - This director's final film ends with the words "in the beginning was the Word" being spoken by the otherwise silent "Little Man." This director included a nine-minute-long take of a man attempting to walk across a dry swimming pool without extinguishing a candle towards the end of a film he made after moving to Italy.
  - Porcupine is revealed to have committed suicide after opting for wealth rather than resurrecting his dead brother in a film by this director of The (*) Sacrifice and Nostalghia in which the Writer and the Professor are led to a wish-granting "Room" in "The Zone." A 1972 film by this director, in which Hari meets Kris Kelvin as he explores the mysteries of the title ocean planet, was adapted from a book by Stanislaw Lem. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Soviet director of Stalker and Solaris . [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky
  - A film by this director includes a theme for flute and tar meant to evoke "space frozen in a dynamic equilibrium." That film by this director transitions from sepia into full color when a group of men arrive at a field littered with abandoned military equipment.
  - Another film by this director includes a "levitation" scene in which the camera pans across Brueghel's Hunters in the Snow, a painting to which he returned in his autobiographical film Mirror.
  - This director adapted the Strugatsky brothers' novel Roadside Picnic into a film about a professor and a writer journeying into the "Zone." In another film by this director, Kris Kelvin encounters his dead wife on a space station orbiting the title planet.
  - For 10 points, name this Soviet director of Stalker and Solaris. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky <FL>
  - One film by this director features a dream sequence in which the camera pans slowly over dirty water as a female voice whispers passages from the book of Revelation.
  - In another scene from a film by this man, the camera cuts between close-ups of Brueghel's Hunters in the Snow and a levitating candelabra while a soundtrack based on JS Bach plays in the background.
  - A third film by this director is divided into eight parts and details the life of a 15th century iconographer.
  - In this director's most famous film, the psychologist Kris Kelvin travels to a space station where he is visited by apparitions of his deceased wife, Hari: that film is based on a novel by Stanislaw Lem, For 10 points, name this Soviet director of Andrei Rublev, Stalker and Solaris. [GIVE]

[T6] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andrei (Arsenyevich) Tarkovsky
  - In one film by this director, a horse is shown falling down a flight of stairs before being impaled on a spear. [PWR]
  - Though that film by him is shot in black-and-white, it ends with a color shot of three horses grazing in a meadow. [PWR]
  - In one film by him, a shot of a woman sitting on a table underneath a chandelier precedes close-ups of parts of Bruegel's Labors of the Months and a man and woman embracing while levitating. [PWR]
  - That film by him includes a committee's examination of a man who claims to have seen the gigantic (*) face of a child in the ocean.
  - In one movie by him, the title Medieval artist is inspired to resume painting after seeing a bell being cast and rung.
  - The protagonist is troubled by hallucinations of his dead wife Hari in a film by this director, ending with the reveal that Kris Kelvin is on an island in the namesake planet.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian director of Andrei Rublev and Solaris. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky
  - In one of this director's films, newsreel footage from the Spanish Civil War is interspersed with a scene of Ignat reading a letter.
  - His diploma-winning film from VGIK contains a famous shot of a wrecking ball destroying an old building.
  - Another of his films opens with Alexander planting a tree with his son in a nine-and-a-half minute tracking shot characteristic of his later films.
  - This director of The Steamroller and the Violin collaborated with the authors of Roadside Picnic for a film where the title figure agrees to guide "The Professor" and "The Writer" into "The Zone." Theophanes the Greek invites the title character to paint the Cathedral of the Annunciation in one of his films.
  - Kris begins to see his dead wife while investigating the death of one of three men orbiting the title water planet in a film by this director based on a Stanislaw Lem novel.
  - For 10 points, name this Soviet director who chronicled a 15th century icon painter's life in Andrei Rublyov and also directed Solaris. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film's breakout star, Aleksei Kravchenko, later played a mercenary commando in the 2022 movie Best in Hell, which fictionalizes combat between PMC Wagner and the Ukrainian Army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Come and See [or Idi i smotrin]):
    Name this anti-war film by Elem Klimov centering on the young conscript Flyora, who watches German commandos burn a church full of villagers.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky):
    This Soviet director's debut feature was the war film Ivan's Childhood. This director's other films include Andrei Rublev, Stalker, and Solaris.
  Part 3 (ans: White Sun of the Desert [or Beloye solntse pustyni]):
    This more lighthearted film is an "Ostern" set during the Russian Civil War in which Red Army soldiers team up with monarchists to fight Basmachi rebels. Cosmonauts watched it before liftoffs, while astronomers named craters on Venus after the wives of its character Abdullah.

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the film Ashik Kerib, the title bard watches a substance from one of these objects color the lips of his dying teacher while holding him in his arms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pomegranates [or nur; or nrran; accept The Color of Pomegranates]):
    Name these objects. Juice from three of these fruits stain and form the shape of Armenia on a piece of cloth in the opening shot of a 1969 Sergei Parajanov film titled for them.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrei (Arsenyevich) Tarkovsky):
    Ashik Kerib was dedicated to this director, who influenced Parajanov's turn away from social realism to a style oriented around visually-vivid tableaux with his film Ivan's Childhood. This Soviet director also made Stalker.
  Part 3 (ans: fortress [or toride; or tsikhe; accept castle; accept The Hidden Fortress; accept The Legend of Suram Fortress]):
    Following his release from prison on charges of homosexuality, Parajanov returned to directing in 1985 with a film centered on a legend about an immured boy in one of these places. Two characters in a film titled for one of these places carry two hundred pieces of gold by hiding them in logs.

[B3] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Dziga Vertov included shots of his wife and editor Yelizaveta Svivola editing the film within Man with a Movie Camera, a film representative of this theory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: montage [prompt on the Kuleshov effect]):
    Name this Soviet filmmaking theory which Sergei Eisenstein defined as "an idea that arises from the collision of independent shots." It shares its name with training sequences from sports movies like Rocky.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Bazin):
    This critic and champion of Italian neorealism rejected montage in favor of the "ontology of the photographic image." With Joseph-Marie Lo Duca and Jacques Doniol-Valcroze, this man founded Cahiers du Cinema.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky):
    This director sided with Bazin against montage, theorizing the "time pressure" of long takes in his book Sculpting in Time. A man and dog lay in a ruined cathedral in the last shot of this director's Nostalghia.

[B4] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a scene filmed by this cinematographer, a young birch tree that stands alone in the middle of the frame is wrestled to the ground by Tore ("TURR-uh"), who has just learned his daughter was murdered. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sven Nykvist ("NICK-vist") [or Sven Vilhem Nykvist] (The director mentioned is Ingmar Bergman; the films are The Virgin Spring and Persona.)):
    Name this cinematographer whose longtime partnership with a certain director included a film in which half of Alma's face and half of Elisabet's face are shown together in a single close-up.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis Malle ("mahl") [or Louis Marie Malle]):
    Nykvist created a shot of a farmhouse whose yard is teeming with sheep and turkeys for this French director's surrealist film Black Moon. This man also directed Zazie ("zah-ZEE") in the Metro and The Fire Within.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky [or Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky]):
    Nykvist also served as cinematographer for this man's final film, The Sacrifice. This Russian director's other films include Solaris and Stalker.

[B5] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a film by this director, the title character sobs in bed as an Italian law student takes her older sister's virginity across the room. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine Breillat ("bray-AH")):
    Name this French director who explored transgressive sexual and violent acts in films like Anatomy of Hell, Romance, and Fat Girl.
  Part 2 (ans: Sleeping Beauty [accept "Sleeping Beauty in the Woods" or "Little Briar Rose"]):
    Breillat directed a 2010 adaptation of this fairytale, in which the title character lies dormant for one hundred years. The witch Maleficent appears in the 1959 Disney adaptation of this fairy tale.
  Part 3 (ans: space station [accept a spaceship or spacecraft; prompt on outer space or an alien planet; prompt on black hole] (The Tarkovsky film is Solaris.)):
    Another female French director known for her frank depictions of sexuality is Claire Denis, who set her 2018 film High Life in one of these places. In an Andrei Tarkovsky film, the psychologist Kris Kelvin experiences a vision of his dead wife in one of these places.

[B6] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about cinematic uses of Bruegel's painting Hunters in the Snow, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky):
    In a shot from this director's film The Mirror, a boy looks out at a frozen landscape that resembles Hunters in the Snow. Several close-ups of the painting also appear in this director's adaptation of Solaris.
  Part 2 (ans: Sweden [or Sverige]):
    A seemingly contemplative bird in Hunters in the Snow inspired the title of the film A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence, which is by Roy Andersson, a director from this home country of Ingmar Bergman.
  Part 3 (ans: Melancholia (by Lars von Trier)):
    The opening sequence of this 2011 film shows Hunters in the Snow catching on fire. That sequence also shows a woman trudging across a golf course while holding her son, and her sister floating downstream in a wedding dress.

[B7] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film's director described it as a series of Persian miniatures, one scene featuring a man peering into a Turkish bath and seeing a woman's breast covered by a conch shell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Colour of Pomegranates [accept Tsvet granata and Sayat Nova]):
    Name this film about the life of an Armenian poet. Its frequent religious imagery includes a shot of a Catholicos being buried with his staff and many shots of red dye seeping into cloth.
  Part 2 (ans: TheMirror [or Zerkalo]):
    The cinematic stream of consciousness in Sergei Parajanov's ("para-YAN-off's") Colour of Pomegranates parallels that of this film, told from the perspective of Alexei, that includes a scene of a woman sitting on a well watching her family's barn burning down.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky [or Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky]):
    The Mirror was a work of this enigmatic Soviet filmmaker who also directed Ivan's Childhood, Stalker, and Solaris.

[B8] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A character in a film by this director puts a crown of thorns on his head after reaching a supposedly desire-granting room to much disappointment. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky):
    Name this Soviet director whose film Stalker follows three men through a disturbing tunnel known as "the meat grinder" in a prohibited area known as "the Zone." He directed a historical epic about the iconographer Andrei Rublev (rub-LYOFF).
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein [Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein]):
    This earlier Soviet filmmaker and theorist created a groundbreaking use of montage in his 1925 films Strike and The Battleship Potemkin.
  Part 3 (ans: The Color of Pomegranates [or Sayat Nova; or Tsvyet Granaty]):
    This 1969 film by Sergei Parajanov (puh-ruh-JON-off) tries to depict the life of a great Armenian poet through evocative, rather than narrative, visuals. It features a shot of a boy lying on a monastery roof as the wind turns the pages of hundreds of books around him, and many shots of the title fruit being cut.

[B9] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about Soviet film inspired by World War II and the events leading up to it for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein):
    Alexander Nevsky, a film by this director, was produced as a propaganda feature in the face of German expansionist rhetoric. This director was also responsible for Battleship Potemkin.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky):
    A child becomes a scout for the Red Army in Ivan's Childhood, a film by this director of Solaris. In what can be considered a happy ending by Soviet standards, it is revealed that Ivan was captured and hanged by the Nazis just before the end of the war.
  Part 3 (ans: Come and See):
    This psychological horror film details a teenagers involvement with partisans in Belarus. After the protagonist's hearing is impaired by an explosion, a droning ringing can be heard for the rest of the film, which was designed to induce nausea in the audience.

[B10] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this director's last films was an adaptation of Boris Godunov in which he starred in the title role. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei Fedorovich Bondarchuk):
    Name this Soviet director who adapted work by Mikhail Sholokhov for his Destiny of a Man and starred as Pierre Bezukhov in his own seven-hour adaptation of War and Peace.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky):
    Bondarchuk's daughter Natalya starred in Solaris, a film by this director. His other works include Stalker and Andrei Rublev.
  Part 3 (ans: Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein):
    Bondarchuk and Tarkovsky emerged a generation after this early Soviet director of radically edited and influential political films such as Strike and The Battleship Potemkin.
