=== STOCK CLUES: Dinesen ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 58 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 62 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]
  - In a story by this author, a man onboard a dhow recounts chasing a woman through a snowstorm in the Alps with the nobleman Pilot and a Swedish baron.
  - In that story by this author, a revolutionary milliner, the monarchist Madame Rosalba, and an Englishman's lover Olalla all turn out to be the opera singer Pellegrina Leoni.
  - This author of "The Dreamers" wrote a story in which a woman recounts the tale of a countess raised in an all-male abbey and a cardinal is revealed to be a disguised valet.
  - In that story by this author, Miss Malin Nat-og-Dag and Jonathan Maersk tell stories while trapped in a granary during a storm.
  - In another story by this author, Martine and Philippa learn that the title cook spent her lottery winnings on a lavish meal.
  - For 10 points, name this Danish author of "The Deluge at Norderney" and "Babette's Feast." [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen ("DIN-uh-sen") [or Karen Blixen]
  - In a story by this author, Timon of Assens is told that salt water in the form of sweat, tears, or sea is the "cure for everything" after learning that his singing is only popular because he's a baron's illegitimate son.
  - In a story by this author, lessons at the "yellow house" are canceled after a teacher singing the "seduction duet" kisses his pupil.
  - The title character of a story by this author says that her heart cries out, "Give me leave to do my utmost!" after explaining that "a great artist, Madame, is never poor." In a story by this author, the singer Jonathan weds Countess Calypso in a hayloft.
  - In another story by this author, the opera star Achille Papin  sends two sisters a chef who uses her lottery prize to give them a lavish dinner.
  - For 10 points, "Deluge at Norderney" is one of the Seven Gothic Tales of what author of "Babette's Feast"? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen or Tania Blixen]
  - In a story by this author, a character finds showcases containing women's clothes in Angelshorn castle at night and another character recalls his childhood nickname "Timon of Assens." In another story by this author, a French singer kisses his pupil solemnly during a duet from Don Giovanni.
  - That story by this author depicts a former Communard who is introduced in a letter by Achille Papin (a-SHEEL pa-PUN).
  - In a story by this author, Countess Calypso and Jonathan Maersk (mairsk) learn about each other's pasts while sheltering in a granary.
  - A character created by this author is told "how you will enchant the angels" after Martine and Philippa learn that she spent her entire lottery winnings on the title meal.
  - "The Deluge at Norderney" is by, for 10 points, what Danish author who wrote "Babette's Feast"? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen; or Karen Christenze von Blixen-Finecke; accept Tania Blixen; accept Osceola; accept Pierre Andrezel] (The first line refers to the story "The Diver.")
  - In a story by this author, a town sends a woman to seduce Saufe , who tries to build wings so he can talk to angels before becoming a pearl fisher.
  - At the end of a story by this author, a woman is embraced and told that she "will enchant the angels." In another story by this author, the Prioress tries to force Boris and Athena to marry, before magically changing places with the title animal.
  - The devout Protestant daughters of the Dean are frightened when a turtle enters their kitchen in a story by this author of "The Monkey." In a story by this author, Martine and Phillipa learn that the title Catholic cook has spent her entire lottery winnings on an extravagant dinner.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the stories "The Deluge at Norderney" and "Babette's Feast," the collection Seven Gothic Tales, and the memoir Out of Africa. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]
  - The narrator of a short story by this author claims to have an artist who is painting a still life of a skull that bears a resemblance to a sex worker named Natalie.
  - A girl in another short story by this author refrains from cutting off her own breasts only when she sees a painting of nymphs in a mirror.
  - That short story by this author revolves around four characters being stuck on an island in the North Sea and is called 'The Deluge at Norderney'.
  - A French character created by this author is taken in by the 'Two Ladies of Berlevaag', wins the lottery, and chooses to spend the money on an enormous meal. 'Babette's Feast' is one of the Seven Gothic Tales by, for 10 points, which Danish author, who also wrote the memoir Out of Africa? [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]
  - In one short story by this author, a sailor-boy that helps the title character is described as her "red-haired familiar." Near the end of one story by this author, the title character asserts, "A great artist... is never poor." A woman in one story by this author fears that she had lent her father's house to a "witches' sabbath" after she sees that her maid has ordered a tortoise.
  - In that story by this author, a French refugee wins the lottery but decides to spend all of the money to prepare Martine and Philippa the title extravagant meal.
  - This author of "Babette's Feast" collected her other short fiction in Seven Gothic Tales.
  - In another work by this author, she narrates her experience owning a coffee plantation in Kenya with her husband.
  - For 10 points, name this pseudonymous Danish author of Out of Africa. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]
  - One of this author's characters states that the word of God may have been "pronounced in caprice, as a whim," but that "it is still the principle of our world" when explaining why he never breaks his word.
  - In another story by this author, a character gives a speech stating "that which we have rejected is poured upon us abundantly;" that character is General Loewenhielm. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, a peasant dies saving her son Goske from prison by (*) mowing a field in one day. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about a turtle being delivered to Berlevaag after that story's title character wins ten thousand francs in the lottery.
  - This author of "Sorrow-Acre" wrote a story in which a cook spends all her money hosting a single dinner, "Babette's Feast." For 10 points, name this Danish author, who also wrote a memoir about life on a Kenyan coffee plantation in Out of Africa. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]
  - This author classified women as housewives, guardian angels, dancers, or witches in the essay "Daguerreotypes." This author wrote a marionette play in which Abraham plans to murder Jan Bravida until a witch puts a curse on his inn so that every lie told there will be revealed as truth the next morning.
  - This author of "The Revenge of Truth" also wrote about Miss Nat-og-Dag, Countess Calypso, and Jonathan Maersk telling stories in a granary while taking shelter from a flood in "The Deluge at Norderney." In another book, this author described such people as Berkeley Cole, who drinks a bottle of champagne every morning, and Kinanjui, the leader of the laborers on her eventually-failed estate in the Ngong Hills of Kenya.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Seven Gothic Tales and Out of Africa. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]
  - A story by this author features a family who enjoys lifting themselves and their horses up to a giant hunting horn.
  - In another story by this author, a girl who lives in the castle of a misogynistic Count is distracted by a painting of centaurs while attempting to cut her breasts off.
  - After discussing the King of Ava's elephants at dinner, the protagonist of a story by this author fights and rapes his fiancee; that story ends with the transformation of the Prioress of Abbey Six.
  - In one of this author's stories, a ghost recalls being hung for piracy while visiting his two spinster sisters.
  - This author wrote about a man who tells a story about "The Wine of the Tetrarch" before unwrapping his bandages and revealing that he is not the Cardinal, but Kasparson.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included "The Monkey," "Supper at Elsinore," and "Deluge at Norderney" in her Seven Gothic Tales. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke or Karen Christenze Dinesen]
  - In one story by this author, a man orchestrates a love triangle, but he is chased down and killed by a stone thrown by Fransine; that story is about the title councilor and struggling writer. [PWR]
  - Another of this author's stories includes a smaller tale, "The Wine of the Tetrarch," which is told by a cardinal who is actually an actor in disguise; that story by this author begins a collection that also tells of the ghost of (*) Morton who speaks to his sisters, Fanny and Eliza.
  - This author of "The Poet" wrote of Prince Potenziani who asks Count Nino to impregnate his wife in "The Roads Round Pisa" and also wrote of Calypso and Miss Malin in a story of a huge flood as part of a collection that includes "The Supper at Elsinore" and "The Deluge at Norderney." For 10 points, name this author of Seven Gothic Tales as well as a memoir about time spent in Kenya titled Out of Africa. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]
  - One of this author's works includes the trial of the man who killed Kitosch because he believed Kitosch had been riding his horse.
  - Later in that work, a Kyama is conducted to determine the responsibility for the death of Wamai after Kabero discharged a shotgun in Belknap's kitchen.
  - In an early scene in that work, Kamante is sent by the narrator to the hospital because the sores on his legs will not heal.
  - One story by this author ends after Lorens Loewenheim gives a speech at a meal prepared for the elderly sisters Martine and Philippa.
  - A book by this author is set "at the foot of the Ngong Hills" and describes the burial of the author's lover Denys Finch Hatton.
  - Her short stories include "Babette's Feast" and the collection Seven Gothic Tales.
  - For 10 points, name this Danish author who wrote about life in on a Kenyan coffee plantation in Out of Africa. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]
  - In one of this author's stories, a Prioress schemes to marry her nephew Boris to the unwilling Athena Hopballehus in order to hide his homosexuality.
  - In another story by this author of "The Monkey", Fanny and Eliza learn about their brother Morton's adventures while conversing with his ghost.
  - In another work by this author, the narrator teaches the young boy Kamante to cook after failing to heal the sores on his legs. [PWR]
  - This author of (*) "The Supper at Elsinore" described burying the hunter Denys Finch-Hatton after his death in a plane crash in her most famous work.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Seven Gothic Tales, who described her years on a coffee plantation in Kenya in Out of Africa. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author created a group of characters who exchange tales while seeking shelter from a flood in the story "The Deluge at Norderney." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen; or Karen Christenze von Blixen-Finecke; or Tania Blixen; or Osceola; or Pierre Andrezel]):
    Name this Danish author of the collection Seven Gothic Tales who wrote about her time in Kenya in the memoir Out of Africa.
  Part 2 (ans: Elsinore [accept "The Supper at Elsinore"; accept Helsingør] (The play is Shakespeare's Hamlet.)):
    Two sisters talk with the ghost of their brother Morton in a story from Seven Gothic Tales titled for a "supper" in this city. This city's castle of Kronborg inspired the setting of a much earlier play that begins with Bernardo asking, "Who's there?"
  Part 3 (ans: chevalier [or "The Old Chevalier"]):
    Specific term required. In a story from Seven Gothic Tales titled for this type of person, Baron von Brackel tells of the time he slept with a woman he didn't know was a prostitute, and how fifteen years later, an artist showed him a skull which he recognized as hers.

[B2] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character frightens her employers by preparing a turtle for dinner. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Babette):
    Name this maid, a former French revolutionary who fled to the town of Berlevaag. This character organizes an event commemorating the Dean's 100th birthday.
  Part 2 (ans: Karen Blixen [or Isak Dinesen]):
    Babette is from Babette's Feast, a short story by this author of Out of Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: Achilles Papin):
    When Babette first comes to Berlevaag, she carries a letter written by this character. This character used to give one of the Dean's daughters singing lessons, but stopped after he impulsively kissed her.

[B3] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A passage in a book by this author comparing the Kikuyu house-boy Kamante to a "civilized dog" who "will place a bone on the floor before you" was condemned by Ngugi wa Thiong'o in his essay Literature and Society. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]):
    Name this Danish author who claimed to have had no other dog breeds but the Scotch Deerhound while on a Kenyan coffee plantation in her memoir Out of Africa. She also wrote Seven Gothic Tales.
  Part 2 (ans: Babette [or Babette Hersant; accept "Babette's Feast"]):
    In a Dinesen story, this servant's "dark eyes" are described as being "as eager and pleading as a dog's" as her request to cook an extravagant French dinner is considered by Martina and Philippe.
  Part 3 (ans: Lulu (Earth Spirit is one of the two Lulu plays by Frank Wedekind.)):
    In Out of Africa, Gikuyu children catch an antelope whom Dinesen adopts and gives this name. An "Animal Tamer" introduces a woman with this name as his circus troupe's snake in the prologue of the play Earth Spirit.

[B4] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A suicidal character travels to this place after learning that he is the Baron von Gersdorff's illegitimate son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Norderney [accept "The Deluge at Norderney"]):
    Name this setting of a 1934 story. In this place, Kasparson takes on the identity of Cardinal Hamilcar and kisses Miss Nat-og-Dag in a granary.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Christenze von Blixen-Finecke; accept Tania Blixen]):
    "The Deluge at Norderney" was written by this author. The title character spends their lottery winnings on Martine and Philippa in this author's story "Babette's Feast."
  Part 3 (ans: Gothic literature [accept Seven Gothic Tales]):
    "The Deluge at Norderney" was included in a collection of seven "tales" named for this genre of literature. This paranormal literary genre is exemplified by Horace Walpole's The Castle of Otranto.

[B5] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This event is preceded by Professor Schmiegelow and Old General von Brackel observing the scenery from a small hill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the deluge at Norderney [accept flood or inundation or thunderstorm or equivalents in place of "deluge"; prompt on deluge or flood or inundation or thunderstorm or equivalents by asking "at what location?"; prompt on Norderney by asking "what event there?"]):
    Name this event in a short story that causes a group of travelers, including Jonathan Maersk ("mask"), to trade tales after switching places with a group of peasants in a granary.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen or Karen Christenze von Blixen-Finecke; accept Tania Blixen; accept Osceola; accept Pierre Andrezel] (The other story is "Babette's Feast.")):
    This author included "The Deluge at Norderney" in her collection Seven Gothic Tales. A servant wins the lottery and spends her prize money on a lavish meal in another story by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Kenya [or Republic of Kenya or Jamhuri ya Kenya]):
    Ngugi wa Thiong'o ("ng-OO-ghee wah thee-ONG-oh") called Dinesen's memoir Out of Africa "one of the most dangerous books ever written" for its condescending depiction of this modern-day country. Ngugi's son Mukoma ("muh-KOH-mah") set his novel Black Star Nairobi in this country.

[B6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character defends the noble cause of the Paris Communards after asserting that "a great artist... is never poor," leading another character to exclaim, "Oh, how you will enchant the angels!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Babette Hersant):
    Name this character. After arriving in Berlevag ("BAIR-leh-vohg"), this character prepares an extravagant "French dinner" with her lottery winnings for the elderly sisters Martine and Philippa.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]):
    "Babette's Feast" is a story by this Danish author, who recounted her experiences living on a coffee plantation in Kenya in her memoir Out of Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Monkey"):
    In this other short story by Dinesen, the prioress of Cloister Seven attempts to arrange her nephew Boris's marriage to Athena. It ends after the prioress's lace cap is torn off, revealing her true identity as the title animal.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about writer Marie NDiaye, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: France):
    NDiaye's novel Three Strong Women follows three women named Norah, Fanta, and Khady who move between Senegal and this country. That novel won this country's Prix Goncourt, like Simone de Beauvoir's The Mandarins.
  Part 2 (ans: written in a single sentence [or one sentence; or that there are no periods or one period; prompt on answers about having many clauses separated by commas] (the Ellmann novel is Ducks, Newburyport)):
    NDiaye's early novel Comedie classique shares this unusual formal characteristic with each section of Alain Mabanckou's Broken Glass. Except for interludes about a mountain lioness, a long novel by Lucy Ellmann also has this characteristic.
  Part 3 (ans: chefs [or cooks] (the Marie NDiaye novel is The Cheffe: A Cook's Novel; the story is Isak Dinesen's "Babette's Feast")):
    In a 2016 novel, NDiaye wrote about an unnamed girl who is hired to do this job by the wealthy Clapeau family. In a short story, Martine and Philippa hire Babette to perform this job.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This event is preceded by Professor Schmiegelow and Old General von Brackel observing the scenery from a small hill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the deluge at Norderney [accept synonyms for deluge such as a flood or being inundated by water; prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this event which causes a group of peasants to seek refuge in a granary, where they are greeted by a group of travelers including Jonathan Maersk. In its aftermath, Miss Nag-Ot-Dag kisses the valet Kasparson..
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen; or Karen Christenze von Blixen-Finecke]):
    "The Deluge at Norderney" is the first story in Seven Gothic Tales, a collection of short stories by this Danish author of Out of Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: Elsinore [or Helsingor; or "The Supper at Elsinore"]):
    In a story from Seven Gothic Tales titled for this Danish city, Fanny and Eliza converse with the ghost of their dead brother Morten, who tells them about his career as a pirate.

[B9] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The introduction to this author's first book was written by Dorothy Canfield Fisher, who convinced Robert Haas to publish it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]):
    Name this author of Seven Gothic Tales. This Danish author detailed her romance with Denys Finch-Hatton on a Kenyan coffee plantation in her memoir.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Deluge at Norderney"):
    In this short story from Seven Gothic Tales, a group of people exchange stories in a farmhouse. In this story, Miss Malin Nat-og-Dag ("nat-oh-day") convinces Countess Calypso and Jonathan Maersk to get married.
  Part 3 (ans: lottery [accept "The Lottery"]):
    Dinesen's short story "Babette's Feast" follows a servant who prepares a birthday dinner after winning one of these events. A Shirley Jackson short story titled for this type of event ends with the stoning of Tessie Hutchinson.

[B10] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following about the greatly underappreciated Danish poet Sophus Claussen, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen; or Karen Christenze von Blixen-Finecke]):
    This author described Claussen as the only "free" Danish poet after discovering his collection Devilries as a teenager. This fellow Dane recounted her time in Kenya in the memoir Out of Africa.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Heine [or Christian Johann Heinrich Heine]):
    Claussen translated the works of a number of writers, including this one, into Danish. An 1824 poem by this writer opens, "I know not if there is a reason / Why I am so sad at heart."
  Part 3 (ans: Ecbatana [or Ecbatan]):
    Claussen's novel Valfart contains an extendedhallucinatory scene set in this city. In "You, Andrew Marvell,"Archibald MacLeish wrote of how this city's "trees / take leaf by leaf the evening strange."

[B11] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author from this country depicted the narrator's unhappy relationship with Lilly, a woman who asks him "So can't we just be cozy?" in a story that explores the dark side of her country's concept of hygge ("HEW-guh"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Denmark (The author of Karate Chop is Dorthe Nors.)):
    Name this country home to an author who included "The Heron" and "Hair Salon" in her short story collection Karate Chop. Miss Nat-og-Dag ("nat-oh-day") tells the story of Calypso, a girl who almost chops her own breasts off, in another short story from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Seven Gothic Tales [or Syv Fantastiske Fortællinger] (by Isak Dinesen)):
    Miss Nat-og-Dag appears in "The Deluge at Norderney," a short story from this Danish collection that was originally written in English, and which also includes "Babette's Feast."
  Part 3 (ans: Hans Christian Andersen):
    This earlier Danish author wrote fairy tales such as "The Little Mermaid" and "The Ugly Duckling."

[B12] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about collections of Gothic tales, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku] (The unnamed authors are Kyoka Izumi and Taro Hirai, who went by the pseudonym Edogawa Ranpo.)):
    A playwright from this country included "The Surgery Room" in a set of this country's "Gothic Tales." Lafcadio Hearn made a collection of this country's ghost stories, and an author from this country wrote detective fiction under an Edgar Allan Poe-inspired pen name.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmilla (by Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu)):
    This novella published in the collection In a Glass Darkly is presented as part of the notebook of Dr. Hesselius and concerns the supernatural experiences of Laura and General Spielsdorf.
  Part 3 (ans: Isak Dinesen ("DIN-uh-sin") [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]):
    Miss Malin Nat-Og-Dag ("NAHT-oh-DAH") compares herself to Scheherazade seeing the dawn break at the end of "The Deluge at Norderney," the first story in this Danish author's Seven Gothic Tales.

[B13] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Ngugi wa Thing'o probably wouldn't be very happy that over half of the Wikipedia page on Kenyan literature is about books written by Europeans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Out of Africa [by Isak Dinesen]):
    This memoir is about the efforts of Denys Finch-Hatton to found a coffee plantation in Kenya, though much of the narrative focuses on death and practices of restitution.
  Part 2 (ans: Huxley Family):
    Another memoir of family life in East Africa, The Flame Trees of Thika , was penned by Elspeth, a woman who married into this family. The painter John Collier twice married women from this family.

[B14] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This book includes an aside in which the author considers the adjudication of a case in which a child accidentally killed and maimed two other children with a shotgun. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Out of Africa):
    Name this book, which describes the author's time on a coffee plantation in Kenya. The last chapters of this book recount the death of Finch Hatton due to the crashing of his Gipsy Moth biplane after takeoff.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]):
    Out of Africa was written by this Danish writer who wrote about a woman who uses her lottery winnings to make the titular meal in "Babette's Feast."
  Part 3 (ans: "Deluge at Norderney"):
    In this story by Dinesen, a Cardinal who was rescued from his cottage by a group of fisherman reveals to a woman that he is actually the Cardinal's valet Kasparson after performing a wedding in a granary.

[B15] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A dean in this story has daughters named after Martin Luther and Philipp Melanchthon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Babette's Feast"):
    Name this short story in which a Parisian rebel works as a cook for those sisters, who are joined by a number of characters including Martine's former suitor Lorens Lowenhielm at the story's climax.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]):
    "Babette's Feast" is by this Danish author who also wrote about a meal in "The Supper at Elsinore" from her collection Seven Gothic Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Little Mermaid" [or "Den lille havfrue"]):
    Another Danish short story is this Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale whose title character has her tongue cut out by the Sea Witch, who gives her legs and the ability to walk on land in exchange.

[B16] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: After his death in a plane crash, this man's brother placed an obelisk on his grave with lines from "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Denys (George) Finch-Hatton [generously prompt on "Denys"; this requires his last name since he is clued as a real-life person rather than as a character]):
    Name this hunter. He gave a treasured gift of a gramophone to his mistress, who was married to a syphilitic nobleman. All of those events were recounted in a book in which he prominently appears.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen (von) Blixen-Finecke; or Karen Christenze Dinesen; accept Tania Blixen; accept Osceola; accept Pierre Andrezel]):
    This Danish author's affair with Denys Finch-Hatton is obliquely implied throughout her memoir Out of Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Roads Round Pisa"):
    At the end of this short story by Dinesen, the cross-dressing Agnese interrupts a duel between Prince Pozentiani and Prince Nino over Nino's failure to rape Rosina as he promised to do.

[B17] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this story, General Lowenhielm excitedly exclaims that he is eating Blinis Demidoff, only to be looked upon in silence. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Babette's Feast" [or "Babette's Gaestebund"]):
    Name this short story where many characters of differing backgrounds are brought together by the title culinary event which is put on by a French refugee.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Baroness Karen von Blixen-Finecke]):
    "Babette's Feast" was written by this Danish author perhaps best known for a memoir centered around her time living on a Kenyan coffee plantation, Out of Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: Elsinore):
    Another of Dinesen's stories is entitled "Supper at" this location, a city which shares its name with a castle that serves as the main setting in Hamlet.

[B18] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The marionette comedy Revenge of Truth plays during a story in this collection that describes an old woman whose dying wish after a carriage accident is to see her step-granddaughter Rosina di Gampocorta. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seven Gothic Tales ):
    Name this collection that features a story in which Agnese interrupts a duel between Giovanni and Prince Potenziani. A baron recalls his affair with the young Nathalie in this collection's story "The Old Chevalier."
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen (von) Blixen-Finecke; or Karen Christenze Dinesen; accept Tania Blixen; accept Osceola; accept Pierre Andrezel]):
    Seven Gothic Tales was written by this Danish author of "Babette's Feast." If you go to Nairobi, you have to pay to photograph the house she lived in for the seventeen years that are recounted in her memoir Out of Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: Out Stealing Horses [or Ut og stjæle hester]):
    The title activity is code for relaying anti-Nazi information to Sweden in this other Scandinavian work. Trond remembers a summer with his father after meeting an acquaintance who shot his twin in this Per Petterson novel.

[B19] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this work, a sick boy named Kamante becomes the narrator's cook and gets to prepare a meal for guests such as the Prince of Wales. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Out of Africa):
    .Name this memoir of life on a coffee plantation whose narrator falls in love with Denys Finch Hatton.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]):
    Out of Africa is by this Danish author who also wrote the story collections Seven Gothic Tales and Anecdotes of Destiny, which contains "Babette's Feast."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Supper at Elsinore"):
    In this Gothic Tale, the De Coninck sisters, Fanny and Eliza, are visited by the ghost of their brother Morten.

[B20] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Members of this movement were influenced by Georg Brandes's critical study Main Currents in 19th Century Literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Modern Breakthrough [or Det Moderne Gennembrud]):
    Name this movement, which produced the novels Lucky Per by Henrik Pontoppidan, The Old Apothecary by Sophys Schandorph, and The Learner of German by Karl Gjellerup, and represented the advent of realism in Scandinavian literature, particularly in Denmark.
  Part 2 (ans: Pelle the Conqueror [or  Pelle Erobreren]):
    This Modern Breakthrough novel by Martin Andersen Nexø discusses Lasse Karlsson and his son's move from Sweden to Denmark. It was made into a lauded 1987 film directed by Bille August.
  Part 3 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]):
    This later Danish author wrote "The Blank Page," "The Deluge at Norderney," and Out of Africa.

[B21] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is cared for by the Norwegian sisters Martine and Philippa after fleeing Paris following an uprising that killed her husband and son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Babette):
    Name this character who uses the 10,000 francs she wins in a lottery to celebrate the 100th birthday of Martine and Philippa's father.
  Part 2 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen]):
    Seven Gothic Tales and "Babette's Feast" are works of this Danish woman, who used a male pen name for an account of her life in Kenya, Out of Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Roads Round Pisa" [or "The Roads Around Pisa"]):
    This story in Dinesen's Seven Gothic Tales tells of the impotent Prince Potenziani, who gets his friend Count Nino to take his place and impregnate his wife; unfortunately, the Prince's wife switched with a friend too.
