=== STOCK CLUES: Beerbohm ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Max Beerbohm
  - In a story by this author, a character is repeatedly startled by a doppelganger resembling his rival who causes him to cut himself while shaving and spill borscht all over his dress shirt while at the Duchess of Hertfordshire's  estate at Keeb. [PWR]
  - This author wrote another story whose title character is mocked by his classmates because his parents named him "Ladbroke" after the street on which they lived. [PWR]
  - In that story by this author, the title character declares that at any moment he could be hit by a motor-omnibus, after which he is immediately killed by one. [PWR]
  - This author of (*) "Hilary Maltby and Stephen Braxton" wrote a story about a self-described "Catholic Diabolist" who authored the poorly-received poetry collection Fungoids.
  - At the end of that story by this author, the protagonist visits the British Reading Room on June 3, 1997, and discovers that he will only be remembered as the protagonist of a short story.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose collection Seven Men includes "Savonarola Brown" and "Enoch Soames." [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Scattergories (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Beerbohm
  - This is the name of the only cat to ever receive a front-page obituary in The Stage, who lived at the Gielgud Theatre and had a habit of wandering onto the stage during performances. [PWR]
  - This is the second of the three names of the man who played Henry Higgins at the premiere of Pygmalion and staged lavishly decorated Shakespeare productions at Her Majesty's Theatre, which he built with the profits from his time at the Haymarket Theatre. [PWR]
  - The actor and stage manager (*) Herbert Tree was born with this surname.
  - An author with this surname wrote a story in which the author of Fungoids finds an article in phonetic spelling calling him a "third-rate poet" when he travels to the British Museum Reading Room a hundred years into the future.
  - That story from the collection Seven Men is called "Enoch Soames." For 10 points, identify this surname of the author of Zuleika Dobson. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Max Beerbohm
  - The narrator of a story by this writer imagines a conversation between a very young envelope and a very old envelope. [PWR]
  - This author created a character who foresees his own injury and the deaths of his friends using palmistry, but refuses to take action to prevent an impending train accident. [PWR]
  - He wrote about a poet who is advised against publishing a book with no title in a conversation with Rothenstein in the domino-room. [PWR]
  - This author of (*) "A.V.
  - Laider" wrote a story in which a playwright spends years crafting a drama fantasizing the life of Savonarola.
  - He included a story about a writer who makes an infernal pact to find out if he is famous in the future just to discover that he is only known for being a fictional character in his collection Seven Men.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Enoch Soames." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play's closing lines, a woman claims that a man lacks this trait after slapping him with his own glove. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: importance [or word forms like being important; accept no importance or unimportance; accept A Woman of No Importance; accept The Importance of Being Earnest]):
    Name this title trait of a play in which Lord Illingworth unknowingly offers a job to his illegitimate son, Gerald Arbuthnot. This is the first title noun of a play in which a woman calls losing both parents "carelessness."
  Part 2 (ans: Herbert Beerbohm Tree [or Herbert Draper Beerbohm; prompt on Beerbohm] (His half-brother was Max Beerbohm.)):
    This manager of the Haymarket Theatre debuted the role of Illingworth in A Woman of No Importance. This man's half-brother, a fellow writer, claimed that he chose his adopted surname because it was easy for fans to shout.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Higgins [or Henry Higgins] (The play is Pygmalion.)):
    Beerbohm Tree also premiered the role of this phonetics professor from a 1913 play opposite Mrs. Patrick Campbell, who played the Cockney flower-girl Eliza Doolittle.

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, a rail operator is haunted by a ghost whose appearance presages horrible train accidents. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens]):
    Name this author of "The Signal-Man." In a novella by this author, the protagonist is visited by a character wound in a chain made of cashboxes and padlocks.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Beerbohm (The unnamed story is "Enoch Soames.")):
    The title palmist predicts the death of himself and his friends in a train accident in this author's story "A. V. Laider." This author created a "thurd-rait poit" who is only remembered for being a character in one of his stories.
  Part 3 (ans: Murder on the Orient Express):
    In this Agatha Christie novel, Hercule Poirot deduces that Cassetti was collectively stabbed by all of the passengers of the title train while it was stuck in a snowdrift.

[B3] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A literary periodical named for this color published by Elkin Mathews and John Lane printed a story about Lord George Hell, who is rejected by Jenny Mere for not having the faint of a saint. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: yellow [or The Yellow Book; or "The Yellow Wallpaper"]):
    Name this color of a Book that published "The Happy Hypocrite." A woman tears up wallpaper of this color in a feminist short story by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Beerbohm [or Sir Henry Maximilian Beerbohm]):
    "The Happy Hypocrite" is a story by this author, who included the characters "A.V. Laider" and "Savonarola Brown" in his short story collection Seven Men.
  Part 3 (ans: Enoch Soames [accept either underlined portion]):
    This title character of a Beerbohm story from Seven Men is transported to the Reading Room of the British Museum on June 3, 1997, as a result of a deal he made with the devil.

[B4] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author of "Fungoids" and "Negations" is described as "a thurd-rait poit hoo beleevz imself a grate jeneus" in an encyclopedia entry from the future. For 10 points each-
  Part 1 (ans: Enoch Soames [accept either or both underlined parts]):
    Name this character who makes a deal with the Devil to travel 100 years forward in time, only to discover that he's primarily remembered as the main character of a short story.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Beerbohm):
    This author included the short story "Enoch Soames" in his collection Seven Men. He also wrote the satirical novel Zuleika (ZOO-LEE-KAH) Dobson.
  Part 3 (ans: Christmas Day):
    Beerbohm wrote a book of parodies of popular authors named for a "garland" on this holiday. That book titled for this holiday includes a mock Rudyard Kipling poem about Santa Claus being arrested.

[B5] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A parody of this poet notes that "bacon's not the only thing that's cured by hanging from a string." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A. E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman]):
    Name this British poet. Hugh Kingsmill lampooned him in a poem that begins "what, still alive at twenty-two, a clean upstanding chap like you?" in reference to this author's poem "When I Was One-and-Twenty."
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    This member of the Algonquin Round Table imagined "how gay 'twould be / to hang me from a flowering tree" in her parody of "Loveliest of trees, the cherry now." She observed that "Razors pain you, Rivers are damp" and concluded "you might as well live" in her poem "Resume."
  Part 3 (ans: Max Beerbohm [or Henry Maximilian Beerbohm]):
    This author scrawled a Houseman parody beginning "and now, lad, all is over, / 'twixt you, your love, and the clover" in his copy of A Shropshire Lad. He parodied 17 other authors in A Christmas Garland and lampooned the Pre-Raphaelites in Rossetti and His Circle.

[B6] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify a few of Oxford's numerous literary appearances, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Montmorency (that travelogue is Jerome K. Jerome's Three Men in a Boat)):
    In a humorous travelogue, the narrator embarks on a boating trip with George and Carl from Kingston to Oxford. They are accompanied by this devilish fox terrier who burns his lip after attacking a tea kettle.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Henry Maximilian "Max" Beerbohm):
    This author wrote a satire in which all of the undergraduates at Oxford University commit suicide out of love for the title woman, Zuleika Dobson.
  Part 3 (ans: (Arthur) Evelyn (St. John) Waugh):
    Many of this author's characters, such as Paul Pennyfeather and Charles Ryder, attended Oxford. Those characters appear in his novels Decline and Fall and Brideshead Revisited.

[B7] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: One member of this family wrote the words to the Christmas carol "In the Bleak Midwinter", while another asked "Where are the snows of yester-year" in his translation of Francois Villon's "Ballad of Dead Ladies". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Rossetti family):
    Identify this English literary family which counts among its members the author of "The Blessed Damozel", Dante Gabriel, and his sister Christina.
  Part 2 (ans: "Goblin Market"):
    Christina Rossetti's most famous poem is this one, in which the title creatures tempt Lizzie and Laura with cries of "come buy, come buy". Laura nearly dies after buying and eating their fruit, but Lizzie saves her.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Beerbohm [or Henry Maximilian Beerbohm]):
    The Rossetti siblings and other members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood were caricatured in this author's collection Rossetti and his Circle. This author of Zuleika Dobson also wrote the short story "Enoch Soames".

[B8] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: "Great beads of perspiration" appear on the brows of busts of twelve Roman emperors when they see the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zuleika Dobson):
    Name this novel in which the title character puts on an entrancing but bumbling magic act before causing the Duke to drown himself in the River Isis, prompting all but one of his peers to follow suit.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir (Henry Maximilian) "Max" Beerbohm):
    This author of Zuleika Dobson wrote the short story collection Seven Men and Two Others, which contains "Enoch Soames." He also wrote the collection A Christmas Garland, in which he parodied the style of many of his contemporaries.
  Part 3 (ans: "Savonarola Brown"):
    In this short story found in Beerbohm's Seven Men, the narrator attempts to complete a ludicrous verse drama by the title playwright, in which the Guelfs and Ghibellines fight while Michelangelo and Benvenuto Cellini show up and Pippa passes.

[B9] 2012 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2012) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of one story by this author makes a deal with the devil to go one hundred years into the future and learn what future generations think of him. For 10 points each:.
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Maximilian "Max" Beerbohm):
    Name this author of "Enoch Soames," who wrote about every undergraduate at Oxford committing suicide after falling in love with the title femme fatale in the novel Zuleika Dobson.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Oxford served as the inspiration for the city of Christminster, which is the setting of this author's novel Jude the Obscure. He caused some controversy by challenging sexual mores with his novel Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
  Part 3 (ans: Wessex county):
    Hardy set many of his novels in this semi-fictional county, whose city of Casterbridge was based on the real life city of Dorchester.

[B10] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: He discussed an "Oxford Love Story" in Zuleika Dobson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Beerbohm):
    Name this British author who also wrote about a writer who makes a pact with a devil to time travel to the British Museum reading room in 1997 in "Enoch Soames."
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    In "Enoch Soames," Enoch calls this poet "second-rate" and claims that he possesses "a deadly evenness." This poet wrote of a pedestal proclaiming "look on my works, ye mighty, and despair" in "Ozymandias."
  Part 3 (ans: Lytton Strachey):
    Beerbohm also wrote an essay named after this British author, who discussed Florence Nightingale and Chinese Gordon in his satire Eminent Victorians
