=== STOCK CLUES: Section d'Or ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: cubism [accept Section d'Or or Golden Section before mention]
  - The fascination with the golden ratio that one branch of this art movement felt led Jacques Villon to name them the Section d'Or.
  - Frantisek Kupka was a Czech painter who was part of another offshoot of this movement that used bright colors called Orphism.
  - Another painter from this movement, Juan Gris, founded its analytical variety.
  - Several paintings named Man with a Guitar exemplified the styles of this movement, while two women wear African masks in a depiction of Barcelona prostitutes from this movement, Les Demoiselles d'Avignon.
  - For 10 points, name this art movement that included George Braque and Pablo Picasso, who used basic geometric shapes. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The central figure in this work has a "24" embedded on his collar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Soldier at a Game of Chess [by Jean Metzinger]):
    Name this artwork, representative of its artist's distilled Crystal Cubism era. Its central poilu is depicted playing the title game against a blue background.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Gleizes):
    Jean Metzinger collaborated with this artist and philosopher on the first theoretical treatise on Cubism. This artist's La Chasse depicts a man with a golden hunting horn, with a group of hunting dogs to his right.
  Part 3 (ans: Section d'Or [or the Puteaux Group]):
    Metzinger was a co-founder of this artist collective associated with Cubism and Orphism. Josephin Peladan coined the primary name for this group due to his fascination with the quantity phi.

[B2] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist described his time working closely with another artist as being like two "mountain-climbers roped together." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Braque):
    Name this artist who developed the papier colle ("pop-yay ko-LAY") technique for his painting Fruit Dish and Glass, which was painted during a period that also included Man with a Guitar and Violin and Candlestick.
  Part 2 (ans: Cubism):
    Along with Pablo Picasso, Braque founded this artistic movement that was characterized by earthy hues and multiple, fractured perspectives in its Synthetic branch.
  Part 3 (ans: Section d'Or [or Golden Section; or Puteaux Group]):
    Lacking Braque and Picasso's exclusive deal with Daniel Kahnweiler, this Cubist group exhibited their work in salons. Albert Gleizes ("glez") and Jean Metzinger ("met-san-ZHAY") were part of this group with a colorful, geometrically inspired name.

[B3] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Works in this art movement include La guitare and La Femme au Cheval. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cubism):
    Name this art movement pioneered by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso in which things are painted or sculpted in an angular manner.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Leon Gleizes):
    This man collaborated with Jean Metzinger on the book Du "Cubisme" as well as painting Man on a Balcony and Woman with Phlox.
  Part 3 (ans: Section d'Or):
    Gleizes and Metzinger were key figures in this artistic group associated with the Cubist and Orphist movements. Sometimes called the Puteaux Group, they met in the house of Marcel and Jacques Duchamp.
