=== STOCK CLUES: Behn ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 50 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 26 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn (the second line refers to The Rover)
  - s: "If he negs again tell him not to keep buzzing for I have left." EXTRAS This author attacked critics in "Epistle to the Reader," which prefaces a play about Haunce van Ezel, the title "Dutch lover." John Phillip Kemble's production Love in Many Masks adapts a play by this author based on Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso.
  - Dr. [PWR]
  - Baliardo marries his daughters to the Prince of Thunderland and the Emperor of the (*) Moon in another play by this author. [PWR]
  - Florinda marries Colonel Belville in a play by this author subtitled "The Banish'd Cavaliers," which sees Angellica Bianca hold Hellena's lover Willmore at gunpoint during Carnival.
  - For 10 points, name this female Restoration playwright of The Rover. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn (The first line is a possible reference to Edward Ravenscroft in the dedication of The Dutch Lover; the second line refers to The False Count.)
  - In the dedication of one work, this author states that "my Epilogue was promis'd me by a Person who had surely made it good", possibly referring to another author affected by venereal disease. [PWR]
  - Another work by this author features a chimney-sweep who pretends to be a nobleman, named Guiliom. [PWR]
  - A character in a play by this author states "if we part so, let me die like a Bird upon a Bough", and concludes by speaking of "the Storms o'th' Marriage-Bed". [PWR]
  - In one of this author's plays, Euphemia marries Alonzo instead of Haunce van Ezel, the titular lover from a work released during the (*) Third Anglo-Dutch War, while another of their plays based on Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso features the characters Hellena and Willmore in Naples at Carnival.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Rover, a female playwright of the Restoration. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn
  - The epilogue of one play by this author is spoken by John Freeman's secret lover, Lady Desbro. [PWR]
  - That play by this author ends with Lord Lambert being imprisoned after the King's forces take London. [PWR]
  - Dr. [PWR]
  - Baliardo attempts to marry his daughter and niece to aliens in one play by this author of The Roundheads. [PWR]
  - Angellica Bianca calls off the murder of the (*) title character of this author's most famous play, Willmore, who later exchanges vows of love with Hellena. [PWR]
  - The title character of a novel by this author of The Emperor of the Moon is disemboweled and dismembered after killing his lover Imoinda and leading a failed slave revolt in Suriname.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Rover and Oroonoko, the premier female playwright of the Restoration. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn [prompt on The Incomparable Astrea]
  - A play by this author ends with dancing characters emerging from a giant zodiac.
  - Lucetta seduces a man but drops him down a trapdoor once he has undressed in a play by this author, in which a man tells a nunnery-bound woman that "there's no sinner like a young saint." Men disguise themselves as aliens to convince Dr.
  - Baliardo to allow their marriages in a play by this author.
  - Virginia Woolf wrote that "all women... ought to let flowers fall upon" the tomb of this author, who described the romance of Hellena and Willmore in a play subtitled The Banish'd Cavaliers.
  - This author of The Emperor of the Moon may have gathered material for a novel about a slave revolt while serving as a spy in Surinam.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Rover and Oronooko, a female Restoration dramatist. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn
  - In a play by this author, a character urges, "Hang the malicious world--There's charms in wealth and honour, but none half so powerful as love" to persuade her sister Marcella to escape a "dull virtuous life" with Octavio by pretending to be a prostitute. [PWR]
  - Mr. [PWR]
  - Jevern states that the "industrious Stage / Has strove to please a dull ungrateful Age" in the prologue of another play by this author, in which Elaria and Bellemante are forbidden to marry human suitors by their father, Doctor Baliardo, who wants to marry his daughters to (*) alien suitors instead.
  - This author of The Feign'd Curtizans wrote a play in which the vengeful Angellica Bianca falls in love with and later attempts to murder Willmore.
  - In A Room of One's Own, Virginia Woolf urged women to drop flowers on the grave of this playwright of The Emperor of the Moon.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration author of The Rover and Oroonoko. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn [accept "The Disappointment" until "this author's"]
  - In one poem by this author "Th' Insensible fell weeping in his Hands" after Lysander cannot sexually satisfy Cloris in the poem "The Disappointment".
  - This writer created Wilmore, an Englishman in Naples who falls in love with Hellena, in a revision of a Thomas Kilgrew play. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, (*) Imoinda is reunited with her Coromantin lover in Suriname, but he cuts her head off after organizing a slave revolt.
  - This author's first novel The Fair Jilt is said to be first English novel by a woman.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Rover, a female Restoration playwright who created Prince Oroonoko. [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn
  - In a comedy by this author, the daughter and niece of Dr.
  - Balliardo employ a harlequin and a valet to convince him that their lovers are alien visitors.
  - Cloris is distressed to find "beneath the verdant leaves a snake" which prompts her to flee "like lightning through the grove" in a poem by this author in which Lisander curses "his birth, his fate, his stars" after finding himself unable to achieve erection.
  - This author of "The Emperor of the Moon" wrote a play in which the revenge-seeking courtesan Angellica Bianca disrupts the budding romance between Hellena and Captain Willmore.
  - This author of "The Disappointment" also created a character from Coromantien who kills his lover Imoinda after being enslaved and taken to Suriname.
  - Women are urged to drop flowers on this author's tomb because "it was she who earned them the right to speak their minds" in Virginia Woolf's "A Room of One's Own." For 10 points, name this English spy who wrote The Rover and Oroonoko. [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn
  - This author described an unfulfilling liaison between Cloris and Lysander in one poem. [PWR]
  - A play by this author depicts a girl who fends off a rapist by showing him a diamond ring, thereby indicating that she is a "person of quality." That girl's sister, Hellena, is seduced by a man who notes, "There's no sinner like a young saint." In her best-known novel, this author created characters who are given the Christian names (*) Caesar and Clemene. [PWR]
  - At the end of that novel, the title character leads a slave revolt against deputy governor Byam in Surinam and mourns his decapitated lover Imoinda.
  - For 10 points, identify this Restoration playwright and spy who wrote The Rover and Oroonoko. [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aphra Behn
  - One work by this author in written as a manual in which Iris suggests engaging in forced entertainment and writing twice every day to Damon during their time apart. [PWR]
  - This author described a character who is "as much unused to fear, / As he was capable of love" in a poem in which that man, Lysander, finishes too quickly for Cloris. [PWR]
  - This author of The Lover's Watch wrote an epistolary novel about the related lovers Silvia and Philander.
  - The prostitute Angellica Bianca opts not to order the shooting of (*) Willmore at the end of one of her plays. [PWR]
  - The poem "The Disappointment" was written by this woman who described Imoinda's death at the hand of her beloved during a slave rebellion in Suriname.
  - For 10 points, name this British female restoration author and spy who wrote The Rover and Oroonoko. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play convinces his love interest to judge the clothes of everyone on the Mall, and be "malicious on all the ill-fashioned things we meet." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Man of Mode (by George Etherege)):
    Name this play in which Lady Woodvill reluctantly consents to a match between her daughter Harriet and the rake Dorimant.
  Part 2 (ans: Restoration era [or English Restoration; or Stuart Restoration]):
    Overly-fashionable fops like Sir Fopling Flutter, who titles The Man of Mode, were popular comic characters in drama from this historical period, which is named for Charles II's return to the throne.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn (The play is The Rover.)):
    A "fake" marriage ceremony turns out to have been legal all along in this author's play The Town Fop. "The Banish'd Cavaliers" is the subtitle of a play this author set during the Carnival in Naples.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Country Wife, a work in this genre, the rake Horner pretends to be impotent in order to be given permission to socialize with married wives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: comedy [accept Restoration comedy or comedy of manners; accept Greek comedies or Old comedy]):
    Name this genre of theatre whose namesake "Restoration" type flourished during the reign of Charles II. Aristophanes is considered the "father of" this genre.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn(The play is The Rover.)):
    This leading author of Restoration comedies wrote a play set during Carnival in which Hellena dresses as a man in an attempt to seduce Willmore.
  Part 3 (ans: spy [or secret agent]):
    Before becoming a playwright, Aphra Behn worked in this profession for Charles II. John le Carre wrote about George Smiley and Alec Leamas, who both have this profession.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The play Lust's Dominion, now attributed to Thomas Dekker, may have been based on a tragedy named for one of these people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Moor [accept The Spanish Moor's Tragedy; accept Abdelazer; or, the Moor's Revenge; prompt on Abdelazer by asking "What kind of person is that play subtitled for?"]):
    Name this kind of person who subtitles a tragedy adapted from Lust's Dominion, in which the title character seduces a queen, convinces her to poison her husband, Philip, has the queen killed, and then pursues her daughter, Leonora.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn (That play is The Rover.)):
    Those events occur in Abdelazer, the only tragedy by this author, who wrote a 1677 comedy about English tourists in Naples during Carnival.
  Part 3 (ans: Othello):
    A more famous Moorish protagonist in Renaissance tragedy is this Shakespeare character, who is tricked by Iago into killing Desdemona.

[B4] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Henry Purcell wrote a set of incidental music to this playwright's Abdelazer, whose second movement later supplied the theme to Britten's Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    Name this author of an early novel whose adaptation by Thomas Southerne was partially set by Purcell. This author wrote about the courtesan Angellica in The Rover.
  Part 2 (ans: John Fletcher):
    The same year he composed Abdelazer, Purcell also wrote incidental music for Bonduca, one of the many collaborations between Francis Beaumont and this playwright. This playwright also collaborated with Shakespeare on Two Noble Kinsmen.
  Part 3 (ans: wives [accept Rule a Wife, Have a Wife or The Wives Excuse or Merry Wives of Windsor]):
    Purcell also set plays by Fletcher and Southerne about these people. Queen Elizabeth's request for Falstaff to fall in love resulted in a Shakespeare play titled for "Merry" examples of these people "of Windsor."

[B5] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Lucetta tricks Blunt by opening a trapdoor under the bed he's laying on, allowing her to take his money and clothes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rover [or The Banish'd Cavaliers] (by Aphra Behn)):
    Name this play in which two sisters go disguised during Carnival in Naples while the licentious Captain Willmore toys with the courtesan Angellica Bianca.
  Part 2 (ans: Susanna Centlivre [or Susanna Freeman; or Susanna Carroll]):
    Colonel Fainwell pretends to be invisible by hiding under a trapdoor to trick Periwinkle, one of Anne Lovely's four guardians, in this author's 1718 play A Bold Stroke for a Wife.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    A satirical caricature of Thomas Shadwell falls through a trapdoor at the end of Mac Flecknoe, a poem by this first Poet Laureate of England.

[B6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Charles Gildon was a rakish writer of often wholly invented biographies and, as such, lived a varied literary life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: advice columns [prompt on columns]):
    Gildon began his career with a pseudo-history of John Dunton's Athenian Society, which invented this type of work. Pauline Phillips wrote the far more modern Dear Abby work of this type.
  Part 2 (ans: Robinson Crusoe):
    To criticize plot holes, Gildon wrote a pamphlet which ends with this character's creator eating his own big books. A series of non-fiction essays in the voice of this character comprises the book Serious Reflections.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn (the novel is Oroonoko.)):
    Gildon invented his biography of this author, arguing that her stories were just recollections of her life. He suggested that this author had an affair with her most famous novel's protagonist, a prince kidnapped from Coramantien.

[B7] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: As a child, this author likely spent time in the colony of Suriname, inspiring a novel about a prince of Coramantien who falls in love with Imoinda before he is enslaved and brought to the New World. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    Name this playwright, poet, and author of the novel Oroonoko.
  Part 2 (ans: Restoration Era):
    Like John Dryden, Behn wrote during this era of British literature and history, so named because Charles II regained the throne in 1660.
  Part 3 (ans: Astraea [or Astrea; or Astraea Redux]):
    Behn used this goddess's name as her code name during a largely unsuccessful stint as a spy in Antwerp. With "Redux," this Greek goddess and daughter of Eos titles a John Dryden poem praising the "happy prince" and "happy age" of Charles II.

[B8] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the reception of Aesop's fables in English literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn [prompt on Aphra Johnson]):
    This author wrote a rhyming quatrain version of "The Fox and the Grapes" for Francis Barlow's popular 1687 illustrated edition. This Restoration-era playwright wrote The Emperor of the Moon and the prose work Oroonoko.
  Part 2 (ans: Wife of Bath [or Alison]):
    This woman sums up her view that history would have been different "if women had written stories" with the question "who painted the lion?" from Aesop's fable "The Man and the Lion." This wife from The Canterbury Tales tells a story about "what women want most."
  Part 3 (ans: Walter Savage Landor (The collection is Imaginary Conversations, and the poem is "Rose Aylmer.")):
    Two exchanges between Aesop and his lover Rhodope ("rod-OH-pee") appear in a series of dialogues by this Romantic poet. This poet memorialized a lord's daughter in a poem that opens "Ah, what avails the sceptred race."

[B9] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author in which an "o'er-ravished shepherd" is "unable to perform the sacrifice" was originally misattributed to the Earl of Rochester. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn [prompt on Aphra Johnson] (The "fair triumvirate of wit" also included Eliza Haywood and Delarivier Manley.)):
    The impotent Lysander appears in "The Disappointment," a poem by what 17th-century member of the "fair triumvirate of wit"?
  Part 2 (ans: Cloris [accept "Fair Chloris in a pigsty lay"]):
    The maid in "The Disappointment" has this pastoral name, which Behn used in several poems. A "fair" woman with this name masturbates while lying in a pigsty in a poem by the Earl of Rochester.
  Part 3 (ans: Westminster Abbey [or Collegiate Church of Saint Peter at Westminster]):
    In A Room of One's Own, Virginia Woolf writes that women should let flowers fall on Behn's tomb in this abbey. Behn is buried in this abbey's East Cloister, rather than in its Poets' Corner.

[B10] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A play by this author explores the sexual adventures of Florinda, Hellena, and Angellica Bianca during the Naples carnival. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn ("ben")):
    Name this author of The Rover. The protagonist is reunited with Imoinda (im-oh-IN-dah) in this author's novella Oroonoko, often considered the earliest British novel.
  Part 2 (ans: love letters [or Love Letters between a Nobleman and his Sister]):
    Behn's other frank depictions of female sexuality include a prose work titled for some of these texts between "a Nobleman and his Sister." Epistolary novels are comprised of these texts.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Disappointment"):
    Lysander throws himself on the maid Cloris in this Behn poem, originally attributed to the Earl of Rochester. Lysander finds himself in "the Hell of Impotence" after he fails to get an erection in this poem.

[B11] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the early part of this century, women readers and writers dominated the prose genre of Amatory Fiction. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 18th century [or 1700s]):
    Name this century, during which Eliza Haywood and Delarivier Manley became literary celebrities. Ian Watt's The Rise of the Novel analyzes three writers from this century, including the author of Moll Flanders.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn (The second clue refers to Oroonoko.)):
    Haywood and Manley made up the "fair triumvirate of wit" along with this author of The Fair Jilt. One of this author's characters throws a bit of his own throat at a man who finds him over the body of Imoinda.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Eliza Haywood so dominated the novel market that this writer satirized her as "Mrs. Novel" in The Author's Farce. This rival of Samuel Richardson is better known for Shamela and Tom Jones.

[B12] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about humor derived from male impotence in Restoration writings, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author mocked bad writers as those who "Rhyme with all the Rage of Impotence" in his Essay on Criticism. This British satirist also wrote The Dunciad.
  Part 2 (ans: The Country Wife):
    Lady Fidget's husband and Mrs. Squeamish's grandmother listen to Horner deliver double entendres about his "china collection" while pretending to be impotent in this Restoration comedy by William Wycherley.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    The shepherd Lysander falls "weeping in his Hands" due to impotence in this poet's "The Disappointment." Though first credited to the Earl of Rochester, this poet republished it alongside homoerotic poems about Amintas in "Poems upon Several Occasions."

[B13] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a woman disguises herself as a prostitute, a maid, a grief-stricken widow, and a masked woman called Incognita in order to trick Beauplaisir ("bow-PLAY-seer"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eliza Haywood [or Eliza Fowler]):
    Name this writer of amatory fiction such as Fantomina. This author created the rake D'Elmont in the 1719 novel Love in Excess.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    Eliza Haywood, Delarivier Manley, and this author were known as "the fair triumvirate of wit." This author wrote about Hellena dressing as a man to woo Willmore during Carnival in her play The Rover.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding (Haywood's parody was The Anti-Pamela, and Fielding's was Shamela.)):
    In 1741, parodies of Samuel Richardson's novel Pamela were written by Haywood and this other early English novelist who wrote Tom Jones.

[B14] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Susanna Centilivre used this event as the backdrop for her play about the unfaithful Count Bassino, The Perjur'd Husband. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carnival [accept the Venetian Carnival or the Naples Carnival]):
    Name this event that provides the setting for a play that originated the line "there is no sinner like a young saint." In that play set during this event, a wealthy man forces Belville to take his place in a duel over an expensive courtesan.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    The latter play, The Rover, is by this female Restoration author of Oroonoko, whose pseudonym Astrea was later borrowed by Centilivre.
  Part 3 (ans: wife [accept A Bold Stroke for a Wife or The Country Wife] (The scene is the "china scene" from The Country Wife.)):
    Colonel Fainwell dons four disguises to dupe a woman's four guardians in a Centilivre play titled "A Bold Stroke" for one of these people. A play titled for this type of person includes a scene in which a man feigning impotence talks with two women about porcelain in sexual double entendres.

[B15] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This person is "Clad in the beauty of a thousand stars" in a speech which asks her to "make me immortal with a kiss." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helen of Troy [or Helen of Sparta or Helen of Greece]):
    Name this person who is called "the face that launch'd a thousand ships" in Christopher Marlowe's play Doctor Faustus.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn (bane)):
    Paris's abandonment of his lover for Helen of Troy is depicted in Ovid's Heroides, which was paraphrased by this author in Oenone (ee-NOH-nee) to Paris. Angellica Bianca nearly kills Willmore in this author's play The Rover.
  Part 3 (ans: Marilyn Monroe [or Norma Jeane Baker; accept Norma Jeane Baker of Troy] (the second play is Arthur Miller's After the Fall)):
    A New York screenwriter juxtaposes Helen with this person in an Anne Carson play titled for this person of Troy. This person is fictionalized as the protagonist's suicidal wife in a play whose set consists of a chair in front of a concentration camp tower.

[B16] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, the amateur astronomer Dr. Baliardo is obsessed with the moon and wishes to marry his daughters to lunar courtiers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn (The second play is The Rover.)):
    Name this author of The Emperor of the Moon. A play by this author, which was based on Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso, depicts the amorous adventures of Florinda and Hellena at Carnival.
  Part 2 (ans: English Restoration [or Stuart Restoration; accept Restoration drama or Restoration comedy]):
    Aphra Behn was employed as a spy by Charles II during this period of English history. William Wycherly and William Congreve were other authors from this period that followed the Interregnum.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    This other Restoration author wrote about the Great Fire of London in his poem Annus Mirabilis. This poet also satirized the "true-blue Protestant Poet" Thomas Shadwell in the mock epic Mac Flecknoe.

[B17] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author worked in the RAF, which he described in his first short story "A Piece of Cake," before his time as a British spy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roald Dahl):
    Name this author who worked under William Stephenson as a spy in Washington, D. C. His numerous sexual liaisons there possibly inspired his work My Uncle Oswald.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This author used the codenames "Agent 160" and "Astrea" to go on a spying mission to Belgium under King Charles II, as well as a possible trip to Suriname, where a slave uprising may have inspired her novel Oroonoko.
  Part 3 (ans: Graham Greene):
    This author of The Power and The Glory drew on his experience as a spy for MI6 to write Our Man in Havana.

[B18] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, a famous Spanish courtesan named Angellica charges a thousand crowns a month for her services, but Willmore, the title character, somehow manages to charm her into forgoing the fee. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rover [by Aphra Behn]):
    Name this 1677 play, a revision of Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso, set in Naples at carnival-time. It features Blunt being duped out of all of his belongings, Florinda's courtship with Don Pedro, and Hellena's rejection of the convent.
  Part 2 (ans: William Congreve):
    The Rover was an extremely popular example of Restoration comedy. This other dramatist wrote examples of 'softer' Restoration comedy, such as Love for Love, and a play which features a famous 'proviso scene' between Mirabell and Millamant.
  Part 3 (ans: rake):
    This term for a stock character in Restoration comedy comes from a word for 'hellraiser', and describes a man inclined to immoral behaviour, particularly womanising. This character's 'Progress' is tracked in a series of eight paintings by William Hogarth.

[B19] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: British women were allowed to join this profession starting in the 1660s, under the reign of Charles II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: actor [accept word forms like acting or actress; accept tragedienne; prompt on less specific answers that discuss the theatre or the stage]):
    Name this profession of Elizabeth Barry and Nell Gwynn, who was also a mistress of Charles II. Later women with this profession included several members of the Kemble family.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    Barry and Gwynn may have been in the original cast of this author's play The Rover. This staunch royalist and spy for Charles II satirized anti-Catholic prejudice in The Feign'd Curtizans.
  Part 3 (ans: she-tragedy [accept pathetic tragedy until "called the" is read; prompt on tragedy]):
    Tragediennes like Barry helped popularize this dramatic genre, examples of which included Nicholas Rowe's The Fair Penitent and Thomas Otway's The Orphan. Also called the "pathetic tragedy," this genre focused on the sufferings of a tragic female heroine.

[B20] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A book with this name by Siri Hustvedt deals with the artist Harriet Burden who sells her work by hiring men to present it as their own. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Blazing World):
    This is also the title of a 1666 utopian work by Margaret Cavendish, in which the protagonist reaches the title "new world" via the North Pole and gets crowned Empress of some bird-men and fish-men.
  Part 2 (ans: Virginia Woolf):
    This author compared Margaret Cavendish's lack of tutoring and disorganized intellect to a giant cucumber choking roses and carnations in a garden in her work A Room of One's Own.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    Right after a discussion of Cavendish, A Room of One's Own praises this author of Oroonoko and The Rover, who wrote about girls trying to convince their guardian that their lovers are aliens in The Emperor of the Moon.

[B21] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Vertuso makes a killing manufacturing dildoes for court women such as Cunticulla and Fuckadilla after King Bolloxinion legalizes same-sex sodomy, in an amazingly rude satire of this monarch's court. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles II [prompt on Charles]):
    Name this king who, in real life, patronized actresses such as his lover Nell Gwyn. Appropriately, the term "restoration comedy" refers to plays written during this Stuart king's "Restoration" to the throne.
  Part 2 (ans: John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester [accept either underlined name]):
    The aforementioned satire, Sodom, or the Quintessence of Debauchery, was written by this licentious nobleman, who had affairs with several actress, including Nell Gwyn and Elizabeth Barry. He critiqued rationalism itself in A Satire Against Reason and Mankind.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rover [by Aphra Behn]):
    In this Restoration comedy, Captain Willmore, a character based on aspects of Charles II and Rochester, chases skirts in Naples until conquered by the equally adventurous Hellena.

[B22] 2014 CLEAR (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In one play by this author, The Comedy of Bristo, or The Pimp, Alexander betrays his friend Leonardo after he sees Camille's beauty, but the help of the title character and Pindaro's timely arrival allow the two to wed. F10PE:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Ferreira):
    Name this Portuguese poet, who also wrote a tragedy in which Coelho and Pacheco execute the title lover of Pedro, despite that woman winning clemency from Pedro's father Alphonso IV, The Tragedy of Ines de Castro.
  Part 2 (ans: Miles Gloriosus [do not accept The Braggart Soldier or logical English equivalents]):
    Ferreira based the lecherous Hannibal, who regularly reminds the parasite Montalvam of his exploits in Rhodes and who tries to purchase Camille from Bristo, on Pyrgopolynices, the title braggart solider of this Plautine comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    The story of the historical Ines de Castro was also tackled in the novel Agnes of Castro by this member of the "fair triumvirate of wit", who also wrote the Restoration Comedies The Feigned Courtesans and The Rover.

[B23] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A famous scene in this play involves the discussion of one characters collection of china, which is riddled with bawdy double meanings and puns. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Country Wife):
    Name this play in which Harry Horner beds tons of women using the tried and true "impotence trick," including the naive Margery Pinchwife, who moves to London and clashes with its civilized, yet corrupt denizens.
  Part 2 (ans: The Restoration):
    The author of "The Country Wife", William Wycherley, wrote his plays during this period of English history, which occurred following The Commonwealth, which had stifled creativity.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This other Restoration playwright wrote the plays The Feigned Courtesans and The Emperor of the Moon in addition to her novel set partially in Surinam, Oroonoko.

[B24] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these seventeenth-century women of British literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Cavendish):
    This author of the plays The Comical Hash and A Comedy of the Apocryphal Ladies attached her Observations Upon Experimental Philosophy to her early science-fiction novel The Blazing World.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This member of the "fair triumvirate of wit" wrote about Doctor Baliardo being convinced that his daughter and niece's paramours are aliens in The Emperor of the Moon and about a slave renamed Caesar being dismembered while alive in Oronooko.
  Part 3 (ans: Katherine Philips):
    This member of the Society of Friendship was known as "Orinda" to the subjects of her "friendship lyrics," and is also known for her Letters to Poliarchus and Upon the Double Murder of King Charles.

[B25] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, a rake named Dorimant dumps his mistress Loveit to continue seeing Belinda, whom he also dumps to marry Harriet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Man of Mode):
    Name this Restoration comedy by George Etherege, whose title character is the ridiculous Sir Fopling Flutter.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This author of the Restoration comedy The Rover was the first woman to write plays professionally. She described a "royal slave" in Oroonoko.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration author went into comedy with Marriage a la Mode and also wrote satirical poems like "Mac Flecknoe" and Absalom and Achitophel.
