=== STOCK CLUES: Labour Party ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 43 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Answer: Labour Party [or British Labour or U.K. Labour]
  - In 2024, this party's deputy leader was criticised after being filmed dancing in a nightclub to Gotye's "Somebody That I Used To Know." This party's member Mike Amesbury was forced to quit in March 2025 after being jailed for beating up a constituent.
  - Rosie Duffield, who quit this party after its leader was alleged to have abused corporate hospitality donations, has clashed with its leader over the "For Women" case.
  - In 2025 local elections, this party had its worst-ever result, finishing fourth, despite winning a landslide victory nationally less than a year prior to remove Rishi Sunak's government.
  - For 10 points, name this current U.K. governing party, led by Keir Starmer. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Answer: Labour Party
  - This party refused to support Jamie Driscoll in a mayoral election after he appeared onstage with Ken Loach, who was expelled for joining an organization named "[this party] Against the Witchhunt." A Russia Today presenter and former member of this party, who left it to join the Respect Party, is the leader and founder of the Workers' Party. [PWR]
  - Four independent candidates backed by (*) Muslim Vote defeated members of this political party, the former home of George Galloway, after criticizing its stance on Palestine. [PWR]
  - An independent representing Islington  North was removed as leader of this party over accusations of fostering antisemitism.
  - For 10 points, name this political party whose leadership Keir  Starmer took over from Jeremy Corbyn. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Labour Party
  - A Prime Minister from this party raised eyebrows by giving peerages to those on the "Lavender List," including several businessmen thought to be corrupt.
  - The alleged "Clockwork Orange" campaign was supposedly directed against a Prime Minister from this party, who, according to the book Spycatcher, was thought to be a foreign agent.
  - A Welsh member of this party was the controversial Aneurin Bevan.
  - An economist from it chaired the group that produced the Beveridge Report, leading to the eventual creation of the National Health Service under this party.
  - For 10 points, Harold Wilson and Clement Attlee were members of what British political party, which took power from Winston Churchill's Conservatives in 1945? [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Labour party
  - A leader of this party sang the song "Waiting at the church" at a meeting with supporters to signal that he would not call for elections that year; that leader of this party is the only politician from his country to have served in all four of the Great Offices of State.
  - This party won an election after an opponent claimed that it would have to use "some form of Gestapo" to implement its policies. [PWR]
  - A member of this party was criticized by the headline "Crisis? [PWR]
  - What Crisis?" during the (*) Winter of Discontent.
  - This party, whose members included Aneurin Bevan, lost power after the publication of the Zinoviev Letter while led by Ramsay MacDonald.
  - It created the National Health Service during the administration of Clement Attlee.
  - For 10 points, name this political rival of the Conservative Party. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 SHEIKH (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Australian Labour Party [or ALP; prompt on partial answer; accept equivalents such as Labour Party of Australia; only Labour is needed after "Australia" is read]
  - The Night of the Long Prawns was an attempt to prevent a leader from this party from nominating expelled member Vince Gair as Ambassador to Ireland. [PWR]
  - Three separate breakaways from this party were led by Jack Lang. [PWR]
  - A leader from this party initiated a massive dam construction project called the Snowy Mountains Scheme. [PWR]
  - In order to bypass opposition to an appropriations bill, a different politician from this party attempted to call an election for only the Senate; subsequently, he was (*) dismissed from office by John Kerr, resulting in government by the Liberal-Country coalition. [PWR]
  - The father of a more recent Prime Minister from this party was said to have "died of shame" over her.
  - Prime Ministers from this party have included Ben Chifley, Gough Whitlam, and Julia Gillard.
  - For 10 points, identify this main left-wing party in Australia. [GIVE]

[T6] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Answer: British Labour party
  - One politician briefly expelled from this party for running as an independent in a mayoral election that he won gave a victory speech that began, "As I was saying before I was so rudely interrupted fourteen years ago..." This party abandoned its largely symbolic Clause Four and defeated an attempted infiltration by the Militant Tendency. [PWR]
  - It lost the 1992 election because of misleading adverts during the War of Jennifer's Ear and negative media headlines like one that read: "If (*) Kinnock wins today, will the last person to leave Britain please turn out the lights?" This party's 1983 election manifesto is often called "the longest suicide note in history." The first Prime Minister from this party was smeared by the Zinoviev Letter and its first majority was under Clement Attlee. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this political party that replaced the Liberals as the main centre-left party in Britain. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Labour Party of the United Kingdom [or Plaid Llafur, apparently]
  - One leader of this political party won the 1934 Nobel Peace Prize for work with the League of Nations Disarmament Conference. [PWR]
  - A 1959 election saw an opposing party ask voters not to let this party "ruin" their lives. [PWR]
  - The "thirteen wasted years" in which this party was out of power occurred in the 1950s and saw a split between Bevanites and moderate Gaitskellites.
  - They issued "the longest suicide note in history," a manifesto for an election in 1983, under (*) Michael Foot's leadership.
  - This party emerged from several groups including the Fabian Society, and formed its first government in 1945.
  - For 10 points, name this political party, currently led by Ed Miliband, which has produced such figures as Clement Attlee and Tony Blair. [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Labour Party
  - A leader of this party was mocked for shouting "We're all right!" multiple times during a 1992 rally.
  - It was accused of exploiting children in the "War of Jennifer's Ear" scandal.
  - In the 1992 election, its leader was mocked with a caption asking the last person to leave the country to turn the off the lights on the cover of the Sun.
  - During the 1980s, this party was led by Michael Foot and Neil Kinnock.
  - In the early 1990s, it adopted a "Third Way" strategy to appeal to centrists.
  - After being driven out thanks to the 1978 "Winter of Discontent," this party was the minority from 1980 to 1997, continually losing to the party of John Major.
  - For 10 points, name this British political party of Tony Blair. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 UK Varsities (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: An uprising in this town resulted in the execution of Dic Penderyn for a disputed crime. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Merthyr Tydfil ("MER-thur TIDD-vill") [or Merthyr Tudful, accept Merthyr]):
    Name this town, the place of a namesake "Rising" which took place in 1831, and which saw the first use of a red flag to represent working-class activism. A significant number of the people involved in that uprising in this town were coal miners.
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party [accept Welsh Labour or Llafur Cymru]):
    In 2015, Ann Clwyd ("CLOO-id"), an MP from this party, called for Penderyn to be pardoned. Merthyr Tydfil and the South Wales valleys are historically a heartland for this traditionally centre-left UK-wide party.
  Part 3 (ans: Keir Hardie):
    Elected as MP for Merthyr Tydfil in 1900, this politician became the first leader of the Labour Party after its foundation six years later.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A faction of this party known as the "Backbone club" split off to form the ACT party. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New Zealand Labour Party [accept equivalents; prompt on Labour by asking "in what country?"]):
    Name this party which floated its country's currency and introduced market reforms as part of Minister of Finance Roger Douglas's "Rogernomics." This party opposes the National Party.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruth Richardson OR Ruthanasia):
    After the Nationals defeated David Lange's Labour party, the Minister of Finance continued Rogernomics with her "Mother of all Budgets." You can give either that minister's name, or the pejorative term used to refer to her policies.
  Part 3 (ans: 1980s [prompt on just 80s]):
    New Zealand's economy was greatly impacted by Black Monday, a stock market crash that occurred during this decade. The name of Rogernomics puns on a term for an American president's policies during this decade.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Beatrice Webb, a member of this organization, coined the term "collective bargaining" and helped found the London School of Economics with her husband Sidney. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fabian Society [accept Fabians; or Fabianism]):
    Name this socialist democratic organization that included writers such as H.G. Wells and George Bernard Shaw. This gradualist reform organization is named after a Punic War general known as "the delayer."
  Part 2 (ans: Annie Besant [or Annie Wood]):
    This member of the Fabian Society publicized the plight of matchgirls during an 1889 strike at the Bryant & May factory. This woman later abandoned Fabianism after joining the Theosophical Society with Helena Blavatsky.
  Part 3 (ans: Labour Party of the United Kingdom [accept Labour Representation Committee]):
    The Fabian Society helped found this party through its namesake 1900 Representation Committee. This party won its first prime ministry after Ramsay MacDonald defeated Conservative Stanley Baldwin in the 1923 election.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Leadin: A news channel for this ethnicity, Channel S, was paid by a mayor of this ethnicity for biased coverage prior to a 2014 election in Tower Hamlets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: British Bangladeshis [prompt on South Asian]):
    Name this ethnicity, which now makes up a majority of the East London neighborhood of Spitalfields after immigrating from Sylhet.
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party):
    After becoming Britain's first mayor to be removed due to electoral fraud, Lutfur Rahman was replaced by John Biggs, a member of this party. This current main British opposition party is led by Sir Keir Starmer.
  Part 3 (ans: Khan [accept Rabina Khan or Sadiq Khan]):
    After serving a five-year ban from office, Rahman won the mayoralty again in a 2022 election against a Lib Dem candidate with this surname. Since beating Shaun Bailey in a 2021 election, another politician of this surname has been blamed for rising knife crime.

[B5] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A newspaper headline in 1992 asked that, if the leader of this party won, "would the last person to leave Britain please turn out the lights?" For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Labour Party):
    Name this political party, which lost unexpectedly to the Conservative Party in 1992 in England.
  Part 2 (ans: National Health Service [Accept NHS]):
    A key issue in the 1992 U.K. election was a "War" concerning this government body over an allegedly untrue advertising campaign. The death of Samantha Rickard sparked an investigation into this government body.
  Part 3 (ans: Social Democratic Party [accept SDP, SPD, or Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands]):
    The shift left by Labour during the 1980s caused a moderate "Gang of Four" led by David Owen to break away and found a party with this name, which later merged with the Liberal Party. A party with this name was the main left-wing party in Imperial Germany.

[B6] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about notable headlines run by the British tabloid The Sun, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Labour Party):
    The Sun ran the headline "Crisis? What Crisis?" to parody the indifference of Jim Callaghan, this party's leader, during the "Winter of Discontent." This party thus lost the ensuing election to Margaret Thatcher's party.
  Part 2 (ans: "GOTCHA"):
    After British forces sank the ARA General Belgrano during the Falklands War, The Sun ran this emphatic one-word headline, which it soon retracted when the casualty list was revealed.
  Part 3 (ans: Neil Kinnock):
    The Sun boasted "It's The Sun Wot Won It" after its headline "If [this politician] wins today, will the last person to leave Britain please turn out the lights?" This man succeeded Michael Foot as Leader of the Opposition in 1983.

[B7] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This newspaper's persistent anti-EU stance led it to publish the headline "up yours, Delors", encouraging its readers to "tell the Froggie Common Market Chief exactly what you think of him and his countrymen". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sun):
    Name this newspaper that also campaigned for Leave in the Brexit referendum. It has been owned by Rupert Murdoch, who converted it from a broadsheet to a tabloid, since 1969.
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party):
    The Sun influenced British elections by depicting leaders of this party like Neil Kinnock as left-wing and out of touch. It portrayed this party's prime minister, James Callaghan, with the headline "Crisis? What Crisis?" during the 1979 "Winter of Discontent" wave of strikes.
  Part 3 (ans: Hillsborough Disaster):
    The Sun was attacked in 1989 for running articles that blamed this fatal crowd crush at a soccer stadium on its victims.

[B8] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This party's support collapsed in an election prompted in part by the warnings of a committee led by Sir George May. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Labour Party):
    Name this party, defeated in a landslide by the National Government in 1931. The split in this party was driven by its leader, Ramsay MacDonald, forming a coalition with Stanley Baldwin's Conservatives.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Henderson):
    After MacDonald's expulsion from the party, he was succeeded as Labour leader by this politician, who had been Foreign Secretary. This leader lost 235 seats in the 1931 election, including his own of Burnley, and was in turn succeeded by George Lansbury.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Oswald Mosley):
    This politician, who had resigned from the Labour government after the rejection of their namesake Memorandum by the fiscally conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1930, formed the New Party and unsuccessfully stood in Stoke-on-Trent in 1931.

[B9] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The death of this state's senator Bertie Milliner allowed its premier to controversially appoint Albert Field, giving the opposition a majority and leading to "The Dismissal" of Prime Minister Gough ("goff") Whitlam. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Queensland [accept Mabo v Queensland]):
    Name this state that was led for almost two decades by "the hillbilly dictator" Joh Bjelke-Petersen ("Joe BYELL-kee Petersen"). Eddie Mabo fought this state in a 1992 court case that struck down the concept of terra nullius.
  Part 2 (ans: Australian Labor Party [or ALP; or the Labour Party]):
    Bjelke-Petersen launched the failed "Joh for Canberra" push in 1987, leading to a sweeping victory for this left-wing party led by Bob Hawke. This party shares its name with a British party led by Clement Attlee.
  Part 3 (ans: Ireland):
    During the "Night of the Long Prawns," Bjelke-Petersen stymied Whitlam's attempt to flip a senate seat by offering Vince Gair the ambassadorship to this country. Convicts from this modern-day country rose up in New South Wales during the Castle Hill Rebellion.

[B10] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man's Foreign Secretary said of a proposed Council of Europe that "If you open that Pandora's Box, you never know what Trojan 'orses will jump out." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clement (Richard) Attlee):
    Name this 20th-century Prime Minister whose cabinet included Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin (spelled "B-E-V-I-N") and Minister of Health Aneurin "Nye" Bevan (spelled "B-E-V-A-N").
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party [accept New Labour]):
    Attlee belonged to this party, which established Britain's National Health Service under his tenure. It was taken in a "New" direction by Tony Blair in the 1990s.
  Part 3 (ans: Beeching cuts [or Beeching axe; accept Beeching report]):
    A later Labour prime minister, Harold Wilson, oversaw these massive reductions of the British railroad network, despite opposition from his party. They followed a Conservative namesake's "report" on The Reshaping of British Railways.

[B11] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Mary Lou McDonald's speech at the 2018 Sinn Fein conference controversially ended with this phrase. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Tiocfaidh ar la" ["Chucky ahr la," but accept reasonable phonetic attempts]):
    Name this three-word phrase that became popular with Irish republicans after Bobby Sands used it in his prison diaries. It translates to "our day will come."
  Part 2 (ans: United Ireland [or reasonable equivalents like Northern Ireland no longer being owned by the UK; or Irish reunification; or turning all of Ireland into a sovereign state]):
    That phrase refers to this long-held goal of Irish republicanism. The Good Friday Agreement includes the "principle of consent," which makes this goal contingent on achieving a majority in a referendum.
  Part 3 (ans: Social Democratic and Labour Party [or SDLP; or Pairti Soisialta Daonlathach an Lucht Oibre]):
    In the early 1990s, this party's leader John Hume entered secret talks with Gerry Adams, paving the way for the 1994 IRA ceasefire that enabled the Good Friday Agreement. Since then, it has been overtaken as the leading nationalist party in Northern Ireland by Sinn Fein.

[B12] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Hugh Mundy exposed a scandal regarding one of these institutions, whose inmates were so hungry that they were found eating marrow from the bones that they were supposed to be crushing for fertilizer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: workhouses [accept poorhouses]):
    Name these institutions, where people had to reside to receive relief from the government under the Poor Law Amendment Act of 1834. These institutions were colloquially known as "spikes."
  Part 2 (ans: outdoor relief):
    Instituting the Workhouse system involved the abolition of this system, which allowed the poor to collect alms without going into workhouses.
  Part 3 (ans: Labour Party):
    The last remnants of the workhouse system were abolished by the National Assistance Act of 1948, which was passed during the ministry of Clement Attlee, a leader of this democratic socialist political party.

[B13] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This party lost power after the "Winter of Discontent." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Labour Party):
    Name this center-left political party in the United Kingdom, which has been led by Tony Blair and Jeremy Corbyn.
  Part 2 (ans: Ramsay MacDonald):
    This man established the first Labour government in 1924, and later returned to serve six years as prime minister under a National Government from 1929 to 1935.
  Part 3 (ans: Clause Four):
    This controversial portion of the party's manifesto contained an overtly socialist message in its statement that workers should control the means of production. Hugh Gaitskell led a movement to alter this statement after losing the 1959 general election.

[B14] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: During a trial over this book, Mervyn Griffith-Jones embarrassed himself by asking "is it a book... you would wish your wife or your servants to read?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    Name this book that was the subject of a 1960 trial in which Penguin Books was accused of violating the Obscene Publications Act.
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party):
    Tony Judt's Postwar notes that the "decline of the moral authority of the British establishment" began with the trial, and continued with this party's legalization of abortion under Home Secretary Roy Jenkins. This party lost the 1979 general election to the Conservatives.
  Part 3 (ans: Australia (The magazine was Oz.)):
    A later British obscenity trial targeted a magazine from this country for publishing a schoolboy's drawing of Rupert the Bear with a massive penis. Robert Hughes's The Fatal Shore discusses this country.

[B15] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Current Events
     Leadin: Gerald Kaufman described this document as the "longest suicide note in history." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The 1983 election manifesto of the Labour Party [or "The New Hope for Britain"; accept words like platform for "manifesto"]):
    Kaufman was talking about what political document principally drafted by men like Michael Foot? This 1983 document called for proposals such as a withdrawal from the European Economic Community. Description is acceptable here.
  Part 2 (ans: House of Lords [or Right Honourable the Lords Spiritual and Temporal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in Parliament assembled; prompt on House of Peers]):
    The Labour Party manifesto also urged for the abolition of this institution which expelled many hereditary peers as part of 1999 reforms.
  Part 3 (ans: Guilty Men):
    Using the alias "Cato," Michael Foot and two other journalists working for Lord Beaverbrook wrote this book, a 1940 bestseller published by the Left Book Club.

[B16] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Leadin: In perhaps the most Spanish quote ever, this man was credited with observing that politics is "like sex" - you start off doing badly, but get better with experience." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pablo Manuel Iglesias Turrion):
    Name this iconoclastic political science professor whose party, Podemos, won 20% of the vote in the recent Spanish election.
  Part 2 (ans: SYRIZA [accept Coalition of the Radical Left, Synaspismos Rizospastikis Aristeras]):
    Iglesias is a strong supporter of Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister of Greece, who leads this leftist party.
  Part 3 (ans: (UK) Labour Party):
    Joining SYRIZA and Podemos in the recent rise of left-wing movements in Europe is Jeremy Corbyn, the radical pacifist vegetarian leader of this mainstream party in Britain, which opposes the Conservatives.

[B17] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This party's "Wilderness Years" lasted from 1979 until 1997, and it issued the manifesto "Let Us Face the Future" near the end of World War II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Labour Party):
    Identify this political party of David Lloyd George.
  Part 2 (ans: Beveridge Report):
    This 1942 document outlined the plan for a British welfare state that would fix the "five great evils" of "want, disease, ignorance, squalor and idleness".
  Part 3 (ans: Aneurin "Nye" Bevan):
    This Minister of Labour for Clement Atlee resigned when funds for social programs were cut to pay for rearmament. He lends his name to the more radical wing of the Labour Party in the 1950s.

[B18] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In Canada, members of this institution are usually called "Opposition Critics". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: shadow cabinets [accept ghost cabinets from terrible Francophiles]):
    Name these entities formed by the senior members of the minority party in Westminster-style governments. They provide alternate policies to those proposed by department heads of the majority.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Miliband):
    This member of Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition currently leads the British shadow cabinet. He was formerly Gordon Brown's Secretary of Energy and Climate Change. His brother, David, serves as Shadow Foreign Minister.
  Part 3 (ans: Labour Party):
    Both David and Edward are members of this slightly leftist British party that was in power under the previous two Prime Ministers, Gordon Brown and Tony Blair.

[B19] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This party's James Callaghan was Prime Minister during the "Winter of Discontent." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Labour Party):
    Name this British party of Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.
  Part 2 (ans: James Harold Wilson):
    This Labour PM served nonconsecutive terms in the 1960s and 70s. He avoided the Vietnam War and opposed Enoch Powell's "Rivers of Blood speech."
  Part 3 (ans: Edward Samuel Miliband):
    This man is the current leader of the Labour Party, having defeated his brother David in an election for the position in 2010.

[B20] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man's party suffered a heavy defeat as a result of his decision to stop the prosecution of a Communist newspaper editor in the Campbell Case. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Ramsay MacDonald):
    Name this prime minister whose administration was hurt further by the publication of the Zinoviev letter and by the stock market crash of 1929.
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party):
    MacDonald was the first prime minister from this political party, the successor to the Liberal Party which today forms the Official Opposition to the Conservatives.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Snowden, 1st Viscount Snowden):
    This Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer under MacDonald used Gladstonian, rather than socialist, tactics against the Great Depression and didn't allow deficit spending against the urging of Keynes.

[B21] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This prime minister's first term in office lasted just over nine months, since he resigned over the prosecution of the Communist newspaper editor J.R. Campbell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Ramsay MacDonald):
    Name this leader who faced the Invergordon mutiny and who was expelled from his party for betraying them by forming the National Government.
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party):
    MacDonald was the first prime minister from this party. Other leaders of this party include James Callaghan, Clement Attlee, and Tony Blair.
  Part 3 (ans: Zinoviev letter):
    This document, now largely discredited as a forgery, was supposedly written by the president of Comintern to encourage communists to press "sympathetic forces" in the Labour Party to back an Anglo-Soviet Treaty.
