=== STOCK CLUES: John Ashbery ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 30 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 41 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Ashbery (Reynolds's piece is titled Whispers Out of Time and responds to "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.")
  - A poem by this author that describes "a chill, a blight moving outward" inspired a Pulitzer-winning piece for string orchestra by Roger Reynolds.
  - Adam Gordon carries this author's Collected Poems in the novel Leaving the Atocha Station, which is titled for one of this author's poems.
  - Despite not understanding it, W.
  - H.
  - Auden gave the 1956 Yale Younger Poets Prize to a famously difficult collection by this poet.
  - The line "in cold pockets of remembrance, whispers out of time" ends a poem by this poet, who wrote the collections Some Trees and The Tennis Court Oath.
  - A poem by this member of the New York School begins by describing "the right hand bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer," as in a Parmigianino painting.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror." [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 TELEOLOGY (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Ashbery
  - The author's personal assistant Emily Skillings wrote about his habit of grading his own poems with A's, B's, or C's in the introduction to a collection that contains the line "only children and dinosaurs like endings."This poet's fixation on old commercial films informs a prose poem he wrote that opens "The first movie I ever saw was the Walt Disney cartoon, The Three Little Pigs.
  - My grandmother took me to it." This poet wrote long poems inspired by the Parable of the Ten Virgins, the serials of actor Kane Richmond, and the piano exercises of Carl Czerny in his most recent collection, Parallel Movement of the Hands.
  - This poet collected some of his book-length poems in (*) Flowchart and Three Poems and included some of his numerous collages on the cover of his collections Wakefulness and Girls on the Run, the latter of which is an ekphrastic poem on the artwork of Henry Darger. [PWR]
  - W.
  - H.
  - Auden caused controversy when he selected this poet to receive the Yale Younger Poets Prize in 1956, because of the supposed difficulty of the collection Some Trees.
  - For 10 points, name this New York School poet who died in 2017 and who wrote the collections The Tennis Court Oath and Self-Portrait In A Convex Mirror. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: John Ashbery
  - Two of this author's poems were submitted to Poetry magazine under the fake name "Joel Michael Symington" by the poet David Morton.
  - This author's first poem, inspired by a film adaptation of A Midsummer Night's Dream, is titled "The Battle" and was written at age 8.
  - This poet drew from the death of his younger brother Richard to pen the lines "Once upon a time there were two brothers / Then there was only one: myself" in his poem "The History of My Life." In another poem, this poet compares "the (*) principle that makes works of art so unlike / what the artist intended" to a game of telephone. [PWR]
  - He quotes Vasari in a poem that describes "the right hand / bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer / and swerving easily away" in a Parmigianino painting.
  - For 10 points name this poet of "Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror." [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Ashbery
  - In a poem by this author, the speaker and his lover are surrounded by "a silence already filled with noises, / A canvas on which emerges / A chorus of smiles, a winter morning," as they observe objects that each join "a neighbor, as though speech / Were a still performance." This author wrote that poetry is generated by "the extreme austerity of an almost empty mind / Colliding with the lush, Rousseau-like foliage of its desire to communicate / Something between breaths," in a poem titled for a dictum from Horace's Ars Poetica. [PWR]
  - W.H. [PWR]
  - Auden admitted to not (*) understanding a word of the manuscript when he voted to award the 1956 Yale Younger Poets Prize to this author's first collection, Some Trees.
  - This author of "And Ut Pictura Poesis Is Her Name" wrote a book-length poem describing an "affirmation that doesn't affirm anything," captured by "the right hand / Bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer," in a Parmigianino painting.
  - For 10 points, name this ninety-year old poet of Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: John Ashbery
  - A poem by this man contains a passage that reads "They must hold against / The fire rain / or when / sometime it seems / upwards, hands down / against / pilloried / sell quickly took her / bearings / did not appear entirely / a height of five thousand feet," and is divided into 111 numbered sections.
  - Another of his poems, which includes the lines "sometimes they were in sordid sexual situations; / at others, a smidgen of fun would intrude on our day," features the Vivians and was inspired by the work of outsider artist Henry Darger.
  - This author included the long poem "Europe" in his collection The Tennis Court Oath.
  - He wrote "Girls on the Run" and won the Yale Younger Poets Prize for his collection Some Trees.
  - Another of his poems features the lines "the right hand / Bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer," and "The glass chose to reflect only what he saw." For 10 points, name this New York School poet of "Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet notes, "then the sneezes got up to go" after describing "burghers" who "become aware / that their time is passing too" in an ekphrasis on a Johannes Vermeer painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ashbery (The other poem is "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.")):
    Name this poet who included "View of Delft" in his collection Chinese Whispers. Another ekphrastic poem by this author begins by describing "the right hand / bigger than the head."
  Part 2 (ans: W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]):
    Ashbery named as his greatest influence this poet, who mused on Homeric ekphrasis in his poem "The Shield of Achilles." This poet also wrote "Musee des Beaux Arts."
  Part 3 (ans: trees [accept Some Trees]):
    The title poem of Chinese Whispers laments that these "barren" objects "have been described more than once." These objects title Ashbery's first poetry collection, which Auden awarded the Yale Younger Poets Prize despite not understanding it.

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Winners of a prize granted by this institution receive a reserved spot at the James Merrill House residency program. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yale University [accept Yale Series of Younger Poets]):
    Name this institution that now awards the Bollingen Prize for Poetry. Stephen Vincent Benet and Archibald MacLeish were influential judges for this institution's Younger Poets Prize, the oldest annual literary award in the US.
  Part 2 (ans: W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]):
    A high watermark of the Yale Series of Younger Poets was the judgeship of this poet, who selected Adrienne Rich and W. S. Merwin, among others. This British-American wrote "Musee des Beaux Arts."
  Part 3 (ans: John Ashbery [or John Lawrence Ashbery] (The poem is "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.")):
    In 1956, Auden drew controversy by awarding the prize to Some Trees, this poet's first book, despite not understanding a word of it. A Parmigianino painting inspired the magnum opus of this New York School poet.

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker describes how her parents "eat matches like there's no tomorrow" and "live without light" in a poem titled, "As a Consequence of" this figure "stealing all the lightbulbs." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Natalie Diaz's brother [accept When My Brother Was an Aztec]):
    Name this figure who repeats "O God" in a pantoum ("pan-TOOM") about him "at 3 A.M." This figure's addiction to meth is a focus of a collection titled for When [this figure] Was an Aztec.
  Part 2 (ans: United States Poet Laureate [or Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress]):
    Natalie Diaz, the author of "When My Brother Was an Aztec," collaborated with the current holder of this position, Ada Limon, on the project "Envelopes of Air." This national position is appointed by the Library of Congress.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ashbery):
    In a poem from "Envelopes of Air," Diaz writes, "[this author] died today, and tomorrow is my birthday."This New York School poet, who used the pantoum in the collection Some Trees, wrote the poem "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror."

[B4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem dedicated to this author begins, "Kind of empty in the way it sees everything, the earth gets to its feet and salutes the sky." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Clare (The poem is "For John Clare" by John Ashbery.)):
    Name this "Northamptonshire Peasant Poet," who spent his final years in an insane asylum. This author wrote,"My friends forsake me like a memory lost" in his poem "I Am!"
  Part 2 (ans: shepherds [accept The Shepherd's Calendar or the Shepheardes Calendar]):
    A collection by Clare titled for this profession is split into poems titled for months like "April" and "January."Clare was inspired by a bucolic work by Edmund Spenser titled for a "calendar" of people in this profession.
  Part 3 (ans: Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron]):
    While in the asylum, Clare began to believe that he was this British poet, and rewrote his poem about a Spanish womanizer titled Don Juan ("JOO-in").

[B5] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A character created by this author worries that his unsanitary jeans will contaminate the sperm sample he's about to donate to his friend, Alex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Lerner [or Benjamin S. Lerner] (The second novel is 10:04.)):
    Identify this American author of Leaving the Atocha Station whose 2014 metafictional novel takes its title from a plot element in Back to the Future.
  Part 2 (ans: poetry [accept The Hatred of Poetry; accept Poetry Magazine]):
    In a book-length essay titled for this genre, Lerner calls all works in this genre "a record of failure." John Barr controversially called for "something new" in this genre in a 2006 essay in a magazine also named for it.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ashbery [or John Lawrence Ashbery]):
    Leaving the Atocha Station takes its title from this poet, the subject of Karin Roffman's 2017 biography The Songs We Know Best. He wrote Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.

[B6] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about American poets praised in Harold Bloom's final book Take Arms Against a Sea of Troubles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: T. S. Eliot [accept Thomas Stearns Eliot]):
    Bloom calls this author's poem The Waste Land an "inverted pastoral elegy" for his friend Jean Verdenal, who died during the Gallipoli campaign.
  Part 2 (ans: Trumbull Stickney [accept Joseph Trumbull Stickney]):
    In the introduction to Take Arms, Bloom claims that he's never been able to get this author's poem "Mnemosyne" out of his head. This member of the Harvard Pessimists, who died of a brain tumor at age 30, wrote about a cuckoo singing "not yet" to the spring in the poem "Song."
  Part 3 (ans: John Ashbery [accept John Lawerence Ashbery]):
    The book calls Jay Wright the best living poet since the 2017 death of this New York School poet who wrote the collections Some Trees and The Tennis Court Oath.

[B7] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An experimental poetry journal founded in this city took its title from Raymond Roussel's novel Locus Solus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York City (The poem is Frank O'Hara's "The Day Lady Died.")):
    Name this city, which was home to a modernist "school" of poets including Ted Berrigan and Kenneth Koch. Their acquaintance wrote that "it is 12:20...on a Friday" in this city when he hears about Billie Holiday's death.
  Part 2 (ans: sonnets):
    Likely inspired by Dadaists, Berrigan cut up lines of other poems to create poems in this form. Berrigan's 1964 collection of poems in this form references Shakespeare's 154 poems in this form.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ashbery (The poem is Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror.)):
    This other New York School poet described how "the glass chose only to reflect what he saw" in a poem that titles a 1974 collection by him.

[B8] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem sees "Photographs of friends, the window and the trees / Merging in one neutral band that surrounds/Me on all sides." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror" (by John Ashbery)):
    Name this poem that asserts "The soul establishes itself" after describing "the right hand / Bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer."
  Part 2 (ans: William Carlos Williams):
    This poet described Icarus drowning after "a splash quite unnoticed" in his collection Pictures from Brueghel. This imagist famously described an object "glazed with rain / water" in "The Red Wheelbarrow."
  Part 3 (ans: "Musee des Beaux Arts" (by W.H. Auden)):
    In this poem, the speaker claims that the "old Masters" were "never wrong" "about suffering" before, like Williams, considering Brueghel's Icarus.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet claimed to hate all French poets save Raymond Roussel, instead preferring his own wildly inaccurate translations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ashbery):
    Name this author. He wrote "you and I / Are suddenly what the trees try / To tell us we are: / That their merely being there / Means something" in the title poem of his collection Some Trees. He told of Henry Darger's The Vivians in Girls on the Run.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Rimbaud):
    Alleged hatred notwithstanding, Ashbery claimed "we are absolutely modern" because this French poet "commanded us to be" in the introduction to his translation of this poet's Illuminations. He wrote the prose poem "A Season in Hell."
  Part 3 (ans: fairy tales):
    Ashbery credited his interest in French in part to Madame D'Aulnoy stories of this type. "The Princess and the Pea '' and "The Snow Queen" are stories in this genre by Hans Christian Andersen.

[B10] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This author's most famous poem ends 'Here and there in cold pockets of remembrance, whispers out of time.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ashbery):
    This American poet wrote that 'the glass chose to reflect only what he saw' in a poem that features the lines 'the right hand / bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer'.
  Part 2 (ans: a mirror):
    John Ashbery's most famous collection is titled Self Portrait in a Convex [this object]. In a poem by Alfred Tennyson, The Lady of Shalott can only watch the world through this object, which cracks 'from side to side' when she looks at Lancelot.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet asked 'What's filling up the mirror? Oh, is it not I' in his poem "The Fat Man in the Mirror". This poet described how 'I watched for love cars' at a time when only nocturnal animals were awake in "Skunk Hour".

[B11] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A collection named for this city contains "Days of 1981," a poem that notes how "emblems of our embarrassment become acceptable to us, after a while," in reference to a lover's gift of a "pottery heart." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexandria):
    Name this city that titles a 1993 collection by Mark Doty, written after his partner was diagnosed with HIV. While working in this city, Callimachus of Cyrene wrote Aetia and compiled the Pinakes.
  Part 2 (ans: Still Life with Oysters and Lemon):
    This lengthy prose meditation on a painting by Jan Davidsz de Heem (yahn DAH-vidz deh HAYM) is among Doty's most celebrated writings. After describing the translucency of a fruit peel in this book, Doty explores the human tendency to imbue objects with meaning.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ashbery [or John Lawrence Ashbery]):
    Doty's influences include this author, whose "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror" is a long meditation on a painting by Parmigianino. This man published Commotion of the Birds before dying in 2017.

[B12] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about writers who have been discussed by British author Mark Ford:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ashbery):
    Ford's doctoral work was on this American poet whose collections include The Tennis Court Oath and Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror .
  Part 2 (ans: Locus Solus):
    According to Wikipedia, Ford has also written about Raymond Roussel. Roussel himself wrote this novel in which Martial Canterel gives a tour of his estate, including the head of Danton and people in glass cages who have been revived by resurrectine.

[B13] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Oddities in this novel include a weather-powered machine that makes a mosaic out of harvested teeth, and a troupe of corpses animated with a serum that makes them reenact the most important moments of their lives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Locus Solus):
    Name this novel by Raymond Roussel in which the inventor Martial Canterel shows off his surreal inventions while providing a guided tour of his estate.
  Part 2 (ans: John Ashbery):
    The Roussel-inspired literary journal Locus Solus was co-edited by Kenneth Koch, James Schuyler, and this other New York School poet, whose works include the book-length poem Flow Chart.
  Part 3 (ans: billiards [or pool; or snooker]):
    Roussel's short story "Among the Blacks" begins with a sentence about a table for playing this game, which is the subject of a pun in the story's last line. Robert Faehmel plays this game at half-past nine in a novel by Heinrich Boll.

[B14] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet described how "The bear / Drops dead in sight of the window" in his poem "Glazunoviana." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ashbery):
    Name this poet of the Henry Darger inspired Girls on the Run, who described an object which shows an "image / Glazed, embalmed, projected at a 180-degree angle" in another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City (or NYC)):
    John Ashbery, along with other poets like Frank O'Hara and Kenneth Koch, was part of a school of poetry centered in this city. Langston Hughes and Countee Cullen were members of the Harlem Renaissance, a cultural movement in this city.
  Part 3 (ans: "This Is Just To Say"):
    Koch's "Variations on a Theme by William Carlos Williams" parodies this Williams poem in which the speaker entreats "Forgive me / they were delicious / so sweet / and so cold" after consuming "the plums / that were in / the icebox."
