=== STOCK CLUES: Bulgakov ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 33 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]
  - In a book by this author, a researcher notes that a subject can read after he pronounces the word "delicatessen" backwards.
  - In a novella by this author, a scientist discovers a frog's belly enlarged by a red ray from a microscope.
  - Humanity is attacked by aggressive reptile-bird hybrids created in the wake of a chicken extinction in that book by this author, The Fatal Eggs.
  - The title character of a novella by this author gets a job catching stray cats after an experiment in which Dr.
  - Preobrazhensky attaches a human pituitary gland and testicles to the stray mutt Sharik.
  - In a novel by this author, a writer destroys his book on Pontius Pilate, prompting Professor Woland to tell him that "manuscripts don't burn." For 10 points, name this Soviet author of Heart of a Dog and The Master and Margarita. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: district doctors [accept equivalents like physicians or surgeons or general practioners or venereologists (Bulgakov's medical specialty); accept medicine or answers about the medical profession]
  - A member of this profession quotes Gogol's Taras Bulba after knocking out Merzlakov to see if he's a "faker" in Varlam Shalamov's Kolyma Tales, which features one named "Nurder" who is nicknamed "Murder." An aspiring concert pianist whose mother reads guests her unrealistic novels tricks a flabby whist player of this profession into waiting all night in a cemetery. [PWR]
  - One member of this profession battles wolves from his sleigh after a fireman drags him from his bath into a blizzard. [PWR]
  - A man who joins this profession because his father would disown a priest cites Heine and (*) Pushkin to justify slacking off because its logical end is abandoning religion and philosophy. [PWR]
  - Members of this profession include "Pussycat" Turkin's brief lover Startsev in "Ionych," Mikhail and Gromov's stroke victim "neighbor" and the morphine-addicted author of a "Country" one's Notebook.
  - For 10 points, name this profession whose practice informed the fiction of Mikhail Bulgakov and "Ward No. 6" author Anton Chekhov. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mikhail Bulgakov
  - In a short story by this author, a clerk whose office has run out of cash is instead paid in defective matches.
  - In a satirical play by this man, a zoologist discovers a method of massive reproduction which is accidentally used to produce vast amounts of snakes, ostriches, and crocodiles, instead of much-needed chickens.
  - This author of "Diaboliad" and The Fatal Eggs also described the transplant of a human pituitary gland and testicles that transform Sharik into Polygraph Polygraphovich.
  - This author created a character who predicts the death of Berlioz, a member of MASSOLIT, by decapitation.
  - The title lovers of that novel by this author are reunited and granted peace with the help of Woland.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Heart of a Dog and The Master and Margarita. [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]
  - This author created a character who hoards money in his apartment walls and is known by the feminine form of his actual name, Vasily. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, the prisoner released from cell no. 666 turns out to be the revolutionary leader Petlyura. [PWR]
  - Another of this author's characters suffers from continual headaches and counts among his subordinates the secret policeman Aphranius and the centurion Mark the (*) Rat-Killer.
  - This man's novel about the Kievan family of Alexei, Elena, and Nikolka was adapted into the hit play The Days of the Turbins.
  - A poet whose alias means "homeless" is sent to a lunatic asylum where he meets the author of a book about Yeshua ha-Notsri in a novel by this author in which Moscow is terrorized by the retinue of Professor Woland, who is Satan in disguise.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of The White Guard and The Master and Margarita. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov
  - One of this author's plays sets a scene in a supermarket, where every shopper has died frozen in their last act of shopping, after Efrossimov's camera proves to be the only defense against a gas attack.
  - Another of his plays depicts the year 2222, where faucets will dispense grain alcohol, after the hapless engineer Rein's accidental travel into the future in an attempt to fix a faulty time machine brings Ivan the Terrible to the present day.
  - In another play by this author, the sound of the "Internationale" is heard from offstage at the end, once the German and White coalition fighting for hetman Herman Skoropadsky has been defeated by Petlyura's pro-Soviet Rada, portending dark days for the title family of Imperial Russian military officers.
  - He also wrote a play showing the difficulties in getting Tartuffe produced.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the plays Bliss,Adam and Eve,A Cabal of Hypocrites, and Days of the Turbins, who also wrote novels such as The Master and Margarita. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov
  - One play by this author begins with Efrossimov taking pictures with a new kind of camera, which proves to protect those it depicts from a deadly cloud of radiation.
  - A novel by this author ends with a mysterious August freeze stopping a plague of giant snakes that had been accidentally unleashed on Moscow in an attempt by Alexander Rokk to compensate for a disease in poultry.
  - This author of Adam and Eve and The Fatal Eggs also wrote about a revolutionary transplant performed on Poligraph Poligraphovich in one novel.
  - In another novel of his, the Variety Theater master Woland retrieves a man who is writing a novel about Pontius Pilate.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian novelist of Heart of a Dog and The Master and Margarita. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story titled for one of these objects, a poor boy is amused by three dolls playing violins in a window, but is chased away by a bully and runs to hide behind a pile of wood where he freezes to death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christmas trees [or Rozhdestvenskaya yolka; accept "A Christmas Tree and a Wedding" or "Yolka i svad'ba"; accept "The Beggar Boy at Christ's Christmas Tree" or "The Heavenly Christmas Tree" or "Mal'chik u Khrista na yolka; prompt on trees]):
    Name these objects. Another story titled for one of these objects ends with the narrator thinking "then his calculations were correct" after witnessing a wealthy man marrying a 16-year-old girl.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]):
    This author's relationship with Christianity is reflected in his story "The Beggar Boy at Christ's Christmas Tree." This Russian author also wrote "White Nights" and "The Dream of a Ridiculous Man."
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    Once banned, Christmas trees were reintroduced to Russia in the 1930s, possibly because of Stalin's love for this author's play The Days of the Turbins, which includes a scene of a Christmas tree being decorated.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character with this profession hallucinates a woman flying and holding pitchforks while he walks down the street in a story collected in a "Notebook" by a "Young" person with this profession. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: doctor [or physician; or medicine; accept A Young Doctor's Notebook] (The story in the lead-in is "Morphine.")):
    Name this profession of Polyakov, who shoots himself at a story's end. In a story by another author, a member of this profession named Rabin argues about Stoic philosophy with Gromov.
  Part 2 (ans: Anton Chekhov [or Anton Pavlovich Chekhov] (The story is "The Lady with the Dog.")):
    Dr. Rabin rejects Stoicism in this author's story "Ward No. 6." Dmitri Gurov meets a woman who owns a white Pomeranian in a story by this author of The Seagull and The Cherry Orchard.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov] (The novel is The Master and Margarita.)):
    "Morphine" and the collection A Young Doctor's Notebook were inspired by this author's experiences. In a novel by this author, a character says, "Manuscripts don't burn" to a character who targets the organization Massolit.

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, Arina refuses to forgive Jesus after she crushes the angel Alfred while her husband goes into the army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isaac Babel [Isaac Emmanuilovich Babel]):
    Name this author of "The Sin of Jesus." This Jewish author of "The Story of My Dovecot" and "My First Goose" wrote the collections Red Cavalry and Odessa Tales.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov [Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]):
    The trial of Jesus is interspersed throughout The Master and Margarita, a novel by this Soviet author of Heart of a Dog.
  Part 3 (ans: The Twelve [or Dvenadtsat]):
    In the final line of this poem, Jesus Christ appears to lead the title group of soldiers through a blizzard. This poem by Alexander Blok opens, "Black night, white snow."

[B4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, this character is served by Mark Ratslayed and becomes obsessed with a condemned prisoner named al-Notsri. ["ha-notes-ree"] For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pontius Pilate [or Marcus Pontius Pilate]):
    Name this character, who is the protagonist of a novel-within-a-novel that is restored after Professor Woland tells the Master that "manuscripts don't burn."
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    The Master is one of the two title characters in this author's novel The Master and Margarita.
  Part 3 (ans: Vladimir Sorokin):
    In The Day of the Oprichnik, a novel by this author of the Ice Trilogy, the title character inverts Bulgakov, saying "in general, books burn well. Manuscripts go like gunpowder."

[B5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A husband refers to his wife's plan for him to do this action as an "infantile charade," but is enraged when, while doing this action, he hears his houseguest call him a "gullible" fool that he can "lead by the nose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hiding under the table [accept answers like concealing in place of "hiding"; accept answers like beneath or behind in place of "under"; prompt on answers like eavesdropping; prompt on partial answers; reject "hiding in the closet"] (Damis hides in a closet earlier in the play.)):
    Name this action that Orgon performs at the urging of his wife Elmire in order to catch his duplicitous houseguest making declarations of love to his wife.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Tartuffe [or l'imposteur; or The Impostor]):
    Orgon hides under the table to observe the vulgarity of the title pseudo-religious hypocrite in this play by Moliere.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov] (The play is The Days of the Turbins; the novel is The White Guard.)):
    This author fictionalized Moliere in his play The Cabal of Hypocrites. This author also wrote about the Turbin family during the Ukrainian Civil War in a novel later adapted into a play.

[B6] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Instead of wishing for the return of this character, a woman wishes for Frieda to stop being presented with a handkerchief she used to smother her child. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Master):
    Name this character, who befriends the poet Homeless while in Stravinsky's clinic. His only personal belonging is a "greasy black cap" with an embroidered "M."
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]):
    Like the Master, this author was derided by critics after Joseph Stalin watched their play The White Guard 15 times. The Master is an autobiographical depiction of this author of The Master and Margarita.
  Part 3 (ans: MASSOLIT [or Massovaia Literatura]):
    Bulgakov satirized Soviet literary critics with this literary organization in the novel. Behemoth burns down this organization's headquarters above Griboedov's restaurant, and the chairman of this organization, Mikhail Berlioz, is decapitated by a street car.

[B7] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer analogised Stalin to Louis XIV in their oft-banned play about the life of Moliere, titled The Cabal of Hypocrites. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    Name this writer, who became unable to publish in the 1930s. Their experiences of literary suppression inspired the line 'manuscripts don't burn' in their posthumously-published novel The Master and Margarita.
  Part 2 (ans: Konstantin Stanislavski):
    The disastrous four years of rehearsals of The Cabal of Hypocrites caused a rift between Bulgakov and this co-founder of the Moscow Arts Theatre, who Bulgakov satirised in a novel variously published as Theatrical Novel or Black Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: The Days of the Turbins [or Dni Turbinykh]):
    Stanislavski also directed this Bulgakov play about two brothers in the Russian Civil War, based on his novel The White Guard. Stalin protected Bulgakov due to his love of this play, which he saw over 20 times.

[B8] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The name of a character in this story is derived from the word "transformation" and is possibly based on the Russian surgeon Serge Voronoff. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: The Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye]):
    Name this story in which Sharik is adopted by Dr. Preobrazhensky and implanted with a human pituitary gland and a pair of testicles.
  Part 2 (ans: Poligraf (The full name is Poligraf Poligrafovich Sharikov.)):
    After developing human traits, Sharik chooses a name with this root word after seeing it in an Orthodox Christian calendar.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail (Afanasyevich) Bulgakov):
    The Heart of a Dog was written by this anti-Bolshevik author of A Young Doctor's Notebook, who also wrote The Master and Margarita.

[B9] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a group of secret policemen hallucinate and take the form of a dragon after ingesting golden fish. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Sorokin):
    Name this author of Day of the Oprichnik. He also wrote about a race of blond-haired, blue-eyed people who congregate after the impact of the Tunguska meteorite in the Ice trilogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Russia [accept Soviet Union or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics]):
    Sorokin is from this country. Yevgeny Zamyatin fictionalized this country's totalitarian control in his novel We.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    This author's science fiction novels include one where Sharik is turned into the foul-mouthed dogcatcher Poligraf Poligrafovich titled Heart of a Dog.

[B10] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about the Turbin brothers dealing with the aftermath of their mother's death during a period of political upheaval. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]):
    Name this author who made his literary debut with The White Guard. A doctor gives Sharik a human pituitary gland and testicles in this author's Heart of a Dog.
  Part 2 (ans: Satan [or The Devil or Lucifer]):
    Bulgakov is better known for The Master and Margarita, which follows this character as he visits Moscow disguised as Professor Woland. This character's midnight Walpurgis Night ball alludes to the similar character of Mephistopheles ("mef-iss-TOF-ill-eez").
  Part 3 (ans: "manuscripts don't burn" [or "rukopisi ne goryat"]):
    This three-word phrase from The Master and Margarita became popular in the era of Soviet censorship, and titles a biography of Bulgakov by J. A. E. Curtis. Professor Woland utters this three-word phrase after learning of the loss of the Master's novel about Pontius Pilate.

[B11] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in a novel by this man thinks that evolution can cause animals to turn into people and thus panics when he sees a dead horse with a note declaring the bearer died 'an honorable Soviet' next to it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nikolayevich Voinovich):
    Name this author of Moscow 2042 who parodied socialist realism in The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Private Ivan Chonkin.
  Part 2 (ans: Heart of a Dog [ or Sobachye syerdtsye; accept A Dog's Heart; accept any English translation that is identical to Heart of a Dog or A Dog's Heart if you ignore the articles "a" and "the"] (By Mikhail Bulgakov.)):
    In this novel, Dr. Bormental uses a pituitary and testicle transfusion to turn Sharik into Polygraph Polygraphovich.
  Part 3 (ans: Animal Farm):
    This George Orwell novel about Napoleon taking over the title establishment ends with creatures looking "from pig to man, and from man to pig...but already it was impossible to say which was which."

[B12] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novella, Doctor Ivan Bormenthal notes that the pituitary gland gives "not rejuvenation but total humanization" and "predetermines the human image." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye; accept A Dog's Heart; accept any English translation that is identical to Heart of a Dog or A Dog's Heart if you ignore the articles "a" and "the"]):
    Name this novella in which Professor Preobrazhensky transplants two organs into Sharik, turning him into a human.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]):
    Heart of a Dog is a satire on Communist theories of human perfectibility written by this author, who also wrote The Master and Margarita.
  Part 3 (ans: chickens):
    Bulgakov's science fiction-themed satires also include The Fatal Eggs, in which Vladimir Persikov accidentally creates a plague of snakes, ostriches, and crocodiles while trying to breed these animals.

[B13] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this novella berates another for offering "advice... on a cosmic scale and of quite cosmic stupidity, on the redistribution of wealth... and at the same time you eat toothpaste." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye]):
    Name this novella in which the professor Philip Philippovich gives Sharik a human pituitary gland and testicles, turning him for a time into Polygraph Polygraphovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    Heart of a Dog was written by this Soviet author, who wrote about an author of a novel on Pontius Pilate and a woman who flies naked over Moscow in The Master and Margarita.
  Part 3 (ans: Collaborators):
    In this satirical play by John Hodge, the USSR coerces Bulgakov into writing a play glorifying Stalin and ends up writing the play with him, eventually swapping work with the dictator and inadvertently causing the Great Purge.

[B14] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify these authors of novels set in the Soviet Union, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    This author of Heart of a Dog wrote about Professor Woland's visit to Moscow in The Master and Margarita.
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    The title physician's love for Lara is portrayed in this author's Doctor Zhivago.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Koestler):
    The trial and execution of Rubashov under the regime of No. 1 are detailed in this author's novel Darkness at Noon.

[B15] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Ivan wants to invent a machine called "Ophelia" that will kill his brother as part of a planned revolt he dubs the "conspiracy of feelings." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Envy [or Zavist']):
    Name this novel by Yuri Olesha that ends with Ivan and Nikolai Kavalerov sharing an apartment with the widow Anichka. In this novel, Nikolai resents the collectivist ideals of his benefactor, the sausage factory owner Andrei Babichev.
  Part 2 (ans: Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye; accept any articles before "Heart" and "Dog," e.g. The Heart of the Dog]):
    Soviet apartment life during the New Economic Policy era is also depicted in this novel, in which Poligraf Poligrafovich Sharikov gets a job driving around in a van and strangling stray cats.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]):
    This author of Heart of a Dog depicted a party held in Apartment 50 that is attended by various denizens of hell in his novel The Master and Margarita.

[B16] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's characters include Doctor Bormenthal and Philip Philipovich Preobrazhensky, the latter of whom transforms its central character into Polygraph Polygraphovich. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heart of a Dog [or Heart of the Dog; or Sobach'e serdtse]):
    Name this 20th-century Russian novel in which a canine named Sharik turns into a human and takes up a job strangling stray cats.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    This author of Heart of a Dog wrote about how Satan, disguised as Professor Woland, wreaks havoc on various characters in Moscow in The Master and Margarita.
  Part 3 (ans: John Hodge):
    This writer depicted Bulgakov's relationship with Joseph Stalin in his 2012 Olivier Award-winning play Collaborators. He wrote the screenplay for the film adaptation of Irvine Welsh's Trainspotting.

[B17] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of the title characters of this novel uses a wish to liberate a woman cursed to wake up every day next to the handkerchief that was used to suffocate her child. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Master and Margarita):
    Name this novel in which the other title character pens a manuscript on Pontius Pilate.
  Part 2 (ans: Behemoth):
    This vodka-loving demonic black cat is part of the demented retinue of Woland in The Master and Margarita. In a hilarious scene, he beheads Bengalsky and reattaches his head as part of an act for the crowd.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    This Russian novelist wrote The Master and Margarita and The White Guard.

[B18] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes a "restless voice" harrying the title fgure as she follows "the just man . . . over a black mountain" before "a sudden dart of pain / stitch her eyes before she made a sound." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Lot's Wife"):
    Name this poem whose speaker asks, "Who will grieve for this woman?" before concluding, "Yet in my heart I never will deny her, / who sufered death because she chose to turn."
  Part 2 (ans: "Requiem" [or "Rekviem"]):
    The author of "Lot's Wife", Anna Akhmatova, also wrote this series of ten poems, which has sections titled "The Sen-tence" and "Crucifxion". It begins with a prose piece called "Instead of a Preface" about waiting seventeen months with grieving mothers in the prison lines outside Leningrad for her son's release.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    Akhmatova wrote an elegy "in memory" of this Russian novelist who fought Soviet censorship before the posthumous publication of his novel The Master and Margarita that introduced the phrase "manuscripts don't burn."

[B19] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Philip Philipovich Preobrazhensky and his student Bormenthal engage in ethically questionable medical procedures. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heart of a Dog):
    Name this satire in which Sharik, after undergoing surgery, takes on the name Polygraph Polygraphovich Sharikov and proceeds to terrorize Dr. Preobrazhensky's household.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov):
    This author of Heart of a Dog was subject to heavy censorship from the Soviet government; consequently, his The Master and Margarita was not published until twenty-six years after his death.
  Part 3 (ans: Woland):
    This character in The Master and Margarita is implied to be Satan in disguise. In his first appearance he correctly predicts the decapitation by streetcar of Berlioz, whose apartment he then takes over.
