=== STOCK CLUES: Ulysses S. Grant ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 37 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ulysses S. Grant [accept Around the World with General Grant]
  - Supporters of this politician who called themselves the "Old Guard" wore medals inscribed with "36 Ballots." John Russell Young urged this man to withdraw from an election after writing an account of his European tour called Around the World with this man.
  - This man was lampooned in a cartoon as a trapeze artist holding up men like George Robeson.
  - In an election, this "Galena tanner" ran on the "Working Man's Banner" with his running mate Henry Wilson, who was later implicated for buying artificially inflated Union Pacific stock during this man's presidency.
  - This politician declined to run for third terms in 1876 and 1880 after the Credit Mobilier and Whiskey Ring scandals.
  - For 10 points, name this Union general who served as U.S. [GIVE]
  - President during Reconstruction.

[T2] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ulysses S. Grant
  - Biographer Ronald C.
  - White examined the importance of the Methodist faith of this man's mother in a book that also highlighted this man's fascination with Mexico.
  - John F.
  - Marszalek, who supervises this man's papers at Mississippi State University, edited a recent scholarly edition of his memoirs.
  - The biographer of Alexander Hamilton, Ron Chernow, published a biography about this man in 2017.
  - This man described a military adversary "dressed in full uniform" meeting him dressed in a "rough traveling suit" in an autobiography he wrote after being swindled out of his savings.
  - That memoir was financed by Mark Twain to provide financial security for this man's family after his expected death from throat cancer.
  - In the 1950s, Lloyd Lewis helped revive this president's reputation, which had been tarnished due to scandals such as the Whiskey Ring.
  - For 10 points, name this President who led Union troops at Vicksburg. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: (Hiram) Ulysses S. Grant
  - According to one account, the Maharajah of Jaipur attempted to hospitably lose a game of billiards to this politician, but this politician was so terrible at billiards that he lost anyway. [PWR]
  - This politician was convinced by Prince Gong to serve as a personal envoy to Japan in an attempt to settle a dispute over the Ryukyu Islands, an event recounted in the journalist John Russell Young's account of spending two years abroad with this leader. [PWR]
  - This leader ordered a military expedition led by John Rodgers to the island of Gangwha in an unsuccessful attempt to establish trade relations with Korea. [PWR]
  - This president fired John Lothrop (*) Motley as ambassador to Great Britain in the aftermath of the Senate's rejection of his plan to annex Santo Domingo.
  - Many foreign policy initiatives of this president's administration, including the signing of a reciprocal trade treaty with the Kingdom of Hawai'i, were headed by his Secretary of State Hamilton Fish.
  - For 10 points, name this president who won reelection over Horace Greeley before his administration was embroiled in the Credit Mobilier scandal. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ulysses S. Grant
  - This man dispatched the USS Alaska to end the Grebo-Liberian War and launched an expedition under John Rodgers to open trade with Korea that ended up firing on Korean forts in the Gangwha (gung-WAH) Affair. [PWR]
  - Columbus Alexander had evidence taken from a safe in the Washington district attorney's office to discredit testimony during this man's administration, which also saw the suspension of habeas corpus in several South Carolina counties. [PWR]
  - This man's Secretary of War, William (*) Belknap, took kickbacks from traders at Fort Sill, and Carl Schurz lead a breakaway faction of members of this man's party.
  - His Secretary of State, Hamilton Fish, negotiated the Treaty of Washington to settle the Alabama Claims in 1870.
  - For 10 points, identify this American president who succeeded Andrew Johnson and earned the nickname "Unconditional Surrender" during the Civil War. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]
  - This president's first attorney general resigned following a dispute over the McGarrahan mining claims in California and had earlier mediated an end to the controversy surrounding Alexander T.
  - Stewart's nomination as Secretary of the Treasury.
  - Ebenezer Hoar was replaced by Amos Akerman on the cabinet of this president, who created the office of Solicitor General to prosecute the (*) KKK. [PWR]
  - This first president's administration was the first to suffer from the Star Route scandal,; also during his tenure, Jim Fisk and Jay Gould attempted to corner the gold market on Black Friday.
  - Orville Babcock became involved in the Whiskey Ring while serving as this man's secretary.
  - For 10 points, name this corruption-plagued 18th president of the United States. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ulysses S. Grant
  - This man was the only sitting US President to give a deposition in a criminal trial.
  - He arbitrated Chinese and Japanese claims to the Ryukus on his world tour.
  - His secretary of the interior, Columbus Delano, and his secretary of the navy, George Robeson, both got caught taking bribes for contracts.
  - He appointed Benjamin Bristow to investigate a scandal involving his personal secretary, Orville Babcock, who was complicit in the Whiskey Ring.
  - For 10 points, name this Republican President who was also a Civil War general. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the Anti-Moiety Acts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    The Anti-Moiety Acts, which cut the number of US tax agents, were passed by this president as part of the Revenue Acts of 1872 and 1874.
  Part 2 (ans: Sanborn [accept John B. Sanborn or Franklin B. Sanborn]):
    Grant abolished treasury agents who collected moieties after an incident named for a general with this surname. This surname was shared by a member of the Secret Six named Franklin, who funded John Brown.
  Part 3 (ans: Solicitor General of the United States [reject "Solicitor"]):
    The controversy led William A. Richardson to be replaced as Treasury Secretary by Benjamin Bristow, who had this other role. Attorney General Robert Bork also had this DOJ position, which represents the government before the Supreme Court.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The first wirehouse firm in US history was created by this man, who is often considered the nation's first major investment banker. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jay Cooke):
    Name this man who financed the Northern Pacific Railway while developing Duluth. The collapse of this man's private banking house partly caused the Panic of 1873.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    The Panic of 1873 doomed the presidency of this man, who earlier faced the Credit Mobilier and Whiskey Ring scandals.
  Part 3 (ans: Salmon Portland Chase):
    This Treasury Secretary under Abraham Lincoln hired Cooke as a special agent to sell $500 million of bonds. He succeeded Roger Taney ("tawny") as chief justice in 1864.

[B3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man resigned from federal office after being accused of misappropriating funds by William Welsh. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ely S. Parker [or Ely Samuel Parker; or Hasanoanda; or Donehogawa]):
    Name this Seneca sachem and military engineer. When surrendering at Appomattox, Robert E. Lee referred to this man as the "one real American" present.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    Parker worked as this general's secretary during the Civil War, for whom Parker drafted the surrender terms at Appomattox. This president later appointed Parker as the first Native Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
  Part 3 (ans: Lewis Henry Morgan):
    Parker wrote The League of the Iroquois with this anthropologist. This adopted member of the Seneca compared cultural depictions of kinship in Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family.

[B4] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Alphonse Loisette, a confidence man peddling memory-improvement tricks, marketed his classes with a later-regretted testimonial from this man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mark Twain [or Samuel Clemens]):
    Name this author and unscrupulous investor who invented an unsuccessful memory game while procrastinating on writing The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
  Part 2 (ans: copper mining [accept Cu; prompt on metal or mining]):
    Twain survived financially on advice from H. H. Rogers, an oil executive who entered this industry by buying Marcus Daly's Anaconda company. This industry's namesake "Kings" dominated local politics in Butte, Montana.
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    Twain's publishing house, a failure, had a rare success with the memoirs of this man. Ferdinand Ward scammed this man and his son out of all of their money in a Ponzi scheme.

[B5] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The case Bradwell v. State of Illinois was about the right for women to engage in this profession. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lawyers [or barristers; or solicitors; or attorneys]):
    Name this profession. James Overton Broadhead was the first head of an "American Association" for people of this profession, who learn from a system set out by Christopher Columbus Langdell in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
  Part 2 (ans: Election of 1884):
    The first woman to practice law in front of the Supreme Court, Belva Lockwood, first ran for president in this year. A key political smear in this year centered around the taunt "Ma, Ma, Where's My Pa?"
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    Belva Lockwood petitioned this president to allow her into the bar. This president was a prominent Civil War general who took Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox Courthouse.

[B6] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A commander at this battle died from sniper fire after remarking "they couldn't hit an elephant at this distance". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Spotsylvania Courthouse):
    Name this 1864 battle where John Sedgwick was killed, making him the highest-ranking Union death during the Civil War. Horatio Wright's troops fought desperately at this battle's "Bloody Angle".
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant and Robert Edward Lee [accept Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    These two generals fought each other at Spotsylvania Courthouse. They met again at Appomattox Courthouse.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of the Wilderness):
    Grant and Lee both fought in this battle that began the Overland Campaign. This battle was named for taking place in a heavily wooded area.

[B7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Pioneers of Reform Judaism at this city's Beth Elohim Congregation like Isaac Harby attempted to introduce sermons in English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charleston):
    Name this city that hosted America's largest Jewish community until the 1830s. A company of Jewish volunteers from King Street defended this city under William Moultrie and Benjamin Lincoln during the revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    During the Civil War, this Union General issued General Order No. 11 expelling all Jews from the Department of the Tennessee. This victor at Fort Donelson and Vicksburg received Robert E. Lee's surrender to end the war.
  Part 3 (ans: Judah Benjamin):
    This Jewish politician, who immigrated to Charleston as a child, served as Confederate Secretary of State, a role in which he lobbied for British and French recognition.

[B8] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: After Buenaventura Baez requested the annexation of his country, this president sent Orville Babcock to meet with Baez. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    Name this US president whose failure to annex Santo Domingo became a major political embarrassment. This president's time in office also saw the Whiskey Ring and Credit Mobilier scandals.
  Part 2 (ans: Hamilton Fish):
    The actual treaty to annex Santo Domingo was drafted up by this Secretary of State, who also settled the Alabama Claims with the UK and the Virginius Affair with Spain.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Sumner):
    The annexation treaty was vigorously opposed by this senator, who had earlier pushed for the establishment of the Freedmen's Bureau during Reconstruction as chair of the Select Committee on Slavery and Freedom.

[B9] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: As a result of this battle, Braxton Bragg resigned his command and was reassigned as military advisor to Jefferson Davis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Missionary Ridge):
    Name this Tennessee battle where Union troops under Virginian George Henry Thomas stormed the rifle pits up the namesake geographical feature. This battle resulted in the lifting of the Confederate siege of Chattanooga.
  Part 2 (ans: MacArthur [or Arthur MacArthur; or Douglas Macarthur]):
    One man with this surname won the Medal of Honor for planting his regimental colors on Missionary Ridge with the cry "On Wisconsin!" George Marshall gave his son of this surname the same award after he and his staff evacuated from Corregidor Island on four PT boats.
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    After Missionary Ridge, Abraham Lincoln promoted this commanding officer at the battle to Lieutenant General, a rank previously reserved for George Washington. This general succeeded Andrew Johnson as President.

[B10] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: One company with this name was founded by the staunchly positivist Sephardic Pereire ("pay-RAIR") brothers, and was accused by Marx of "trying to make Napoleon III the supreme dictator of France's industry." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Credit Mobilier [or Societe Generale du Credit Mobilier]):
    Name this bank that made massive investments in railroad construction before going bust during the Panic of 1873. An admirer of that company, Thomas Durant, named an American bank he founded after that company.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    Credit Mobilier of America paid bribes to a number of Republican politicians during this president's scandal-plagued administration. This president earlier served as the chief Union general during the Civil War.
  Part 3 (ans: John A. Macdonald):
    In another railroad-finance affair, this Canadian prime minister lost an election to the Liberal Party after favoring the Canadian Pacific Railroad over its competitors in the Pacific Scandal.

[B11] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: One of these two men was murdered by an extortionist named Edward Stiles Stokes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jason "Jay" Gould AND James Fisk Jr.):
    Name these two robber barons who managed to devastate the United States economy by attempting to corner the gold market on Black Friday, 1869.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    Black Friday was an early incident during the presidential administration of this former Civil War general whose presidency featured scandals such as the Whiskey Ring.
  Part 3 (ans: Erie Railroad):
    The year before, Gould had become head of this northeastern railroad after winning a contentious battle with men like Cornelius Vanderbilt. While Gould was fighting for control of this railroad in 1873, he led a posse into Canada in an attempt to extradite a con-man known as "Lord Gordon-Gordon".

[B12] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about supposed historical incidents involving exploding cigars, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Fidel Castro [or Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz]):
    As part of Operation Mongoose, the CIA may have planned to assassinate this Cuban leader with an exploding cigar. This Communist allowed Khrushchev to place Soviet missiles in Cuba.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    This president supposedly gave Horace Norton an exploding cigar, which Norton kept on display for years. His private secretary was Orville Babcock.
  Part 3 (ans: Ismet Inonu [accept either underlined part]):
    Ernest Hemingway reportedly gave an exploding cigar to one of the bodyguards of this successor to Ataturk as Turkish president. This general was Turkey's chief negotiator for the Treaty of Lausanne.

[B13] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Nathan Bedford Forrest escaped from this fortification with his men in the middle of the night, angrily stating "I did not come here to surrender my command." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fort Donelson):
    Name this Tennessee fort surrendered to the Union by Simon Bolivar Buckner in February 1862. The Union commander whose forces captured this location was celebrated by the press for his demand of an "Unconditional Surrender."
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    This General's successful siege of Fort Donelson brought him to the attention of Abraham Lincoln. He ended the war as the commanding general of the entire Union army.
  Part 3 (ans: expel the Jews [accept any answer that suggests expelling all Jews from Tennessee, Mississippi and/or Kentucky]):
    While supervising the Western theater of the Civil War, Grant issued General Order No.11, which would have ordered this action if it had ever been actually executed. Grant's stated reason for ordering this action was to suppress the black market cotton trade.

[B14] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This author wrote the line "he flung himself upon his horse and rode madly off in all directions" in Gertrude the Governess, one of his Nonsense Novels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stephen Leacock):
    Name this Canadian political science professor, a humorist who wrote popular books like My Discovery of England and Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town.
  Part 2 (ans: Mark Twain):
    Leacock is sometimes considered the Canadian equivalent of this American author of Roughing It and The Innocents Abroad.
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    Mark Twain briefly got out of debt by publishing this man's critically-acclaimed memoirs, which became one of the bestselling books of the 19th century in the United States.

[B15] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: By 1924, the lectures, home courses and circuit tours organized by this institution had reached some 35 million people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chautauqua Institution [or New York Chautauqua Assembly or Chautauqua Movement]):
    Identify this learning institution that sprung up on the shore of a namesake lake in New York State. Its headquarters were home to a Hall of Philosophy.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    Chautauqua's growth took off after a visit from this US president. His presidency witnessed the Whiskey Ring.
  Part 3 (ans: University of Chicago):
    William Rainey Harper served as the director for Chautauqua for several years before becoming the first president for this institution. John D. Rockefeller provided the endowment for this institution, which was more recently the beneficiary of a three hundred million dollar donation from David Booth.

[B16] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: As Secretary of State this man successfully negotiated the end of the Virginius Incident, thus keeping the U.S. out of the Ten Years' War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hamilton Fish):
    Name this man, who negotiated the Treaty of Washington, thus resolving the Pig War in 1871.
  Part 2 (ans: Alabama):
    The Treaty of Washington also settled a series of damage claims caused by a ship named after this state. William Yancey proposed a platform named for this state in response to the Kansas-Nebraska Act.
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant):
    Hamilton Fish served as this man's Secretary of State. Both Black Friday and the Credit Mobilier scandal occurred during this man's administration.

[B17] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about political biographies, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]):
    This President wrote his memoirs in 1885 while he was dying, and they were published by Mark Twain to support this man's family. He talked mostly about the Civil War and not his scandal-filled presidency.
  Part 2 (ans: Bill Clinton [or William Jefferson Clinton; or William Jefferson Blythe III]):
    This man's lengthy autobiography was called My Life. His former advisor, Dick Morris, wrote the rebuttal book Because He Could.
  Part 3 (ans: Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance):
    This memoir written by Barack Obama is subtitled "A Story of Race and Inheritance." It describes his childhood, his visit to Kenya, and it ends with his attending Harvard Law School. It was followed up by The Audacity of Hope.

[B18] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: One story about this general tells of his requesting supplies, only to deny his own requests as quartermaster and then bring the matter to a superior's attention. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Braxton Bragg):
    Name this Confederate general who lead his forces to victory at the Battle of Chickamauga.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses S. Grant (or Hiram Ulysses Grant)):
    Bragg's troops found less success in the Chattanooga Campaign against the Union tropps of this general, who also seized Vicksburg.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Eggleston Johnston):
    This general was once sent to inspect Bragg's troops with the intended result of replacing him, but found the troops in good condition. Later on, he was unable to replace Bragg because of an injury he suffered at the Battle of Seven Pines.

[B19] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: It was exposed via a New York Sun headline proclaiming, "The King of Frauds". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Credit Mobilier of America Scandal):
    Identify this scandal revealed to the public after Henry McComb, a crony of Thomas C. Durant, sued to recover money given to people like Senator Henry Wilson of Massachusetts.
  Part 2 (ans: (Hiran) Ulysses S. Grant):
    The Credit Mobilier Scandal was revealed during the administration of this president, who succeeded Andrew Johnson.
  Part 3 (ans: New Hampshire):
    The Credit Mobilier Scandal damaged the career of James W. Patterson, a senator from this state. John P. Hale, also from this state, was the Free Soil Party's presidential candidate in 1852.
