=== STOCK CLUES: Sembene ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 10 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ousmane Sembene ("ooss-MAHN sahm-BEN") [or Sembene Ousmane] (The first line describes The Black Docker.)
  - In a novel by this author, a laborer is put on trial for Ginette's murder after she publishes his award-winning novel about the slave ship Sirius under her name.
  - One of this author's characters flaunts his status by having his Mercedes washed with his preferred beverage of imported mineral water.
  - In a novel by this author, a prized ram is killed for eating rice intended for inhabitants of the compound N'Diayene .
  - A novel by this author ends as beggars spit on the naked businessman El Hadji, who had been cursed with impotence upon marrying his third wife.
  - Women depart from Thies  for a three-day march at the climax of a novel by this author in which Ibrahim Bakayoko leads a strike of workers on the Dakar-Niger Railway.
  - For 10 points, the novels Xala and God's Bits of Wood are by what Senegalese author who adapted many of his works to film? [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 WORLDSTAR (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ousmane Sembene
  - One of this director's films was rumoured to have been banned in their home country because the government wanted to remove a "D" from its title; that film's title "commoners" kidnap the king's daughter to protest against their forced conversion.
  - In the final scene of another film by this director, a young boy weeps after removing a traditional mask that has been returned to him by the man who hired the protagonist as a maid before she killed herself. [PWR]
  - (*) This director titled one of his films for the period of mysterious impotence experienced by greedy El Hadji after his third marriage, while his final film is named for the magic that Amsatou's mother Colle uses to help her avoid female genital mutilation.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Xala and Moolaade, the Senegalese "father of African film". [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the climax of a film-within-a-film in this genre, a character played by Danny Glover shoots the friend of another character played by the Palestinian director Elia Suleiman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Western [accept spaghetti Western] (Morricone scored The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.)):
    Name this genre of Death in Timbuktu, which children gather around to watch in Abderrahmane Sissako's film Bamako. The soundtrack of a 1966 film in this genre features "The Ecstasy of Gold" and "The Trio."
  Part 2 (ans: Ousmane Sembene):
    The replacement of the impotent El-Hadji symbolically sports a cowboy hat in Xala ("HALL-ah"), a film by this director. A young woman is hired by Madame to work as a domestic servant in this director's film Black Girl.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Scorsese):
    Xala, Black Girl, and many other works of African cinema are preserved by the World Cinema Project, which was founded by this director of Killers of the Flower Moon and Taxi Driver.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: When asked if his films were understood in Europe, this director proclaimed "why be a sunflower and turn toward the sun? I myself am the sun." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ousmane Sembene [or Sembene Ousmane]):
    Name this director who depicted a maid gifting a mask to an uncaring French family in one film.This Senegalese director of Xala is considered the "father of African cinema."
  Part 2 (ans: French New Wave [or Nouvelle Vague]):
    Sembene produced Wolof-language films after winning the Prix Jean Vigo, a prize named for a director that influenced this 1950s French movement whose proponents included Agnes Varda and Jean-Luc Godard.
  Part 3 (ans: noir [or noir]):
    Sembene won the Vigo award for a film titled for this French word as a noun. New Wave films like Le Samourai and Alphaville are often called "neo-" this word, also used to describe American films like The Big Sleep.

[B3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the intersection of Martin Scorsese's advocacy interests: film preservation and world cinema.
  Part 1 (ans: Iran [or Persia; or Islamic Republic of Iran; or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran]):
    Scorsese's World Cinema Project helped restore The Chess Game of the Wind, a film from this country that was banned and presumed lost. Abbas Kiarostami's Close Up is another film from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Ousmane Sembene [or Sembene Ousmane]):
    The Project funded the restoration of this director's film Black Girl, about an African maid who is mistreated by her French employers. This father of African cinema adapted his novel Xala (HA-la).
  Part 3 (ans: The Cloud-Capped Star [or Meghe Dhaka Tara] (The phrase "cloud-capped towers" appears in Prospero's Act IV, scene 1 monologue in The Tempest.)):
    This 1960 film by Bengali director Ritwik Ghatak was restored by the Project. Its Shakespearean title describes the saintlike woman Nita, the main earner for a family of refugees from the 1947 partition.

[B4] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, colonial authorities turn off public water fountains in retribution after railroad workers decide to go on strike. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ousmane Sembene ("sem-BEN") (The novels are God's Bits of Wood and Xala, respectively.)):
    Name this novelist and director. This author directed a film adaptation of a novel of his in which a businessman suffers from impotence on the night he marries his third wife.
  Part 2 (ans: Senegal):
    Ousmane Sembene is from this country. Other authors from this country include Mariama Ba and a poet who co-founded the Negritude movement alongside Leon Damas and Aime Cesaire.
  Part 3 (ans: letters [or lettres; accept So Long a Letter or Une si longue lettre]):
    Ramatoulaye observes a culturally-mandated mourning period for her husband Modou in Mariama Ba's most famous novel, which is titled So Long a [one of these texts]. Epistolary novels are composed of these texts.

[B5] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The director of this film used real prostitutes and pimps in a scene in which the main character is convinced by Bobby to try gay sex work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Manila in the Claws of Light [or Maynila, sa mga Kuko ng Liwanag]):
    Name this film directed by Lino Brocka in which Julio comes to the title city in pursuit of his fiancee Ligaya, who was tricked into a prostiution ring. After her muder at the hands of Ah-Tek, Julio kills him with an ice pick.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese ("scor-SAY-zee")):
    Brocka's Manila in the Claws of Light has been restored by this director's non-profit organization, the World Cinema Project. This man directed Mean Streets and Taxi Driver.
  Part 3 (ans: Senegal (The directors are Djibril Diop Mambety and Ousmane Sembene.)):
    The WCP restored a film from this nation that ends with the protagonist wrecking his beloved motorcycle, titled Touki Bouki. Diouana works as a servant for a wealthy French couple in another film from this nation, Black Girl.

[B6] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a novel in which a woman kills her own son with sleeping pills after she realises her husband has a second wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mariama Ba):
    Name this author, whose most famous novel revolves around a woman writing letters to her best friend during her period of Iddah.
  Part 2 (ans: French):
    Mariama Ba wrote in this language, the lingua franca of her home country of Senegal.
  Part 3 (ans: Ousmane Sembene):
    This other author wrote an account of a railway strike in Senegal in God's Bits of Wood. This writer often turned their own work into films, leading some to call him 'the father of African cinema'.

[B7] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A film from this country ends with a nearly minute-long shot of a man sitting next to his hat on a staircase, before panning and cutting to the large ship that's taking his lover Anta away. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Senegal [or Republique du Senegal]):
    Name this home country of a director who adapted Friedrich Durrenmatt's The Visit for the 1992 film Hyenas. That film develops themes from the earlier film Touki Bouki, which means The Journey of the Hyena.
  Part 2 (ans: Ousmane Sembene [accept names in either order]):
    That director, Djibril Diop Mambety, is often contrasted with this slightly earlier Senegalese director, who wrote and directed Xala[kha-lah] and Black Girl.
  Part 3 (ans: motorcycles [or motorbikes; prompt on just cycles or bikes; do not accept or prompt on "moped"]):
    The protagonist of Touki Bouki spends much of the movieon one of these personal vehicles with a cow skull on the front. The title character dies in an accident riding one of these vehicles at the beginning of Lawrence of Arabia.

[B8] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about African cinema, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of South Africa):
    In Neill Blomkamp's District 9, aliens land in this country. The forced removal of the aliens from District 9 was inspired by events that took place in this country's District Six during Apartheid.
  Part 2 (ans: Ousmane Sembene):
    This Senegalese director dealt with female genital mutilation in his last film, Moolaade. His other films include Black Girl and Xala, the latter of which is based on one of his own novels.
  Part 3 (ans: Yeelen [or:Brightness]):
    This film by the Malian director Souleyman Cisse is about a magical struggle between Niankoro and his father Soma.

[B9] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about the Muslim businessman El Hadji Kader Beye who is unable to consummate his marriage to his third wife N'Gone, and believes he's been cursed with the title impotence, in the novel Xala. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Ousmane Sembene):
    Name this author who wrote about a railroad strike in his home country in God's Bits of Wood.
  Part 2 (ans: Senegal):
    That home country of Ousmane Sembene is this country, whose presedent Leopold Senghor wrote about ashes feeding the roots of life in his poem "Black Woman."
  Part 3 (ans: So Long a Letter [or Une si longue letter]):
    Another great Senegalese novel is this one by Mariama Ba, which consists of correspondence between Ramatoulaye and Aissatou upon the death of Ramatoulaye's husband.
