=== STOCK CLUES: Christopher Marlowe ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 60 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
  - This author extolled "how smooth his breast was, and how white his belly" in his description of an "amorous" man "whose tragedy divine Musaeus sung." A poem by this author ends with a woman admitting a naked man who knocks on her tower door.
  - George Chapman completed that poem by this author, which asks "who ever lov'd, that lov'd not at first sight?" A "gown made of the finest wool" is one the "pleasures" the speaker of a poem by this author promises to his lover.
  - Walter Raleigh took the perspective of a "Nymph" in a reply to that pastoral poem by this author, which begins "come live with me and be my love." For 10 points, name this Elizabethan poet of "Hero and Leander" and "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love," who also wrote the play Doctor Faustus. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
  - In a play by this author, a captain's widow claims that she owns an ointment that can protect flesh from blades and bullets, tricking her captor into stabbing her in the throat.
  - A prologue by this author attacks the "jigging veins of rhyming mother-wits." In a play by this author, a man "brains himself against" a cage, prompting his wife to commit suicide in the same manner.
  - The title character of a play by this author burns a (*) Qu'ran in an act of religious defiance, marries the princess Zenocrate, and uses the Turkish emperor Bajazeth  as a footstool. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a play about a Scythian  shepherd who conquers western Asia, whose title character's name was used in tracts linked to this author's 1593 stabbing death.
  - For 10 points, name this Elizabethan playwright of Tamburlaine. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe
  - In a play about this author's death, he worships a personal deity named "Dog" before meeting an aspiring young writer who uses the stage name "Tom Stone." That Peter Whelan play about this author is The School of Night, named after an atheist intellectual circle this writer was supposedly a part of.
  - The Latin words "homo fuge" appears on the arm of a character created by this author who elsewhere plays tricks on the (*) pope.
  - That title character of a play by this author puts cuckold horns on knights and later conjures an image of Helen of Troy to entertain some students.
  - For 10 points, name this English playwright, who wrote about a scholar selling his soul to Mephistopheles in Doctor Faustus. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
  - This playwright wrote about "the alien abroad" and "the alien at home" to subversively resist imperialist exploitation, according to Emily C.
  - Bartels's Spectacles of Strangeness.
  - One of this playwright's characters reads a letter saying "My father is deceased" and exclaims "Ah, words that make me surfeit with delight!" In that play by this author, a man notes that "the mightiest kings have had their minions," citing the examples of people like Hylas and Hephaestion.
  - Jupiter dandles Ganymede on his knee at the beginning of a play by this author; that play, which may feature contributions by Thomas Nashe, is based on the Aeneid.
  - In another play, this author anglicized the name "Lucifer" to create the name "Lightborn" for a character who uses a red hot poker to kill a king whose favorite is Piers Gaveston.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Dido, Queen of Carthage and Edward II. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: the death of Christopher Marlowe [or the murder of Christopher Marlowe; or the assassination of Christopher Marlowe; or equivalents]
  - Charles Nicholl analyzed this event in the light of ideas spread by Giordano Bruno in his monograph on it, The Reckoning.
  - In the lead-up to this event, a xenophobic poem threatening Dutch merchants, the "Dutch Church Libel," was posted publicly under a suggestive pseudonym.
  - This event may have been incited by the "Baines note," which quoted the assertion that "they that love not Tobacco and Boys are Fools." The last novel that Anthony Burgess published during his lifetime was a fictionalization of this incident.
  - This event occurred at the house of Dame Bull, in a room rented to Robert Poley, Nicholas Skeres, and Ingram Frizer; all three were associates of Thomas Walsingham.
  - This event's victim may have been targeted due to his reputed atheism, a view endorsed by his character Tamburlaine.
  - For 10 points, name this incident in which the author of The Jew of Malta died under suspicious circumstances. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe [or "Kit" Marlowe]
  - In a play by this author, one character describes the royal court using the metaphor of a flying-fish that is eaten by a fowl. [PWR]
  - The title character of that play by this author has his beard shaved and is washed with puddle water before he is executed by Lightborne. [PWR]
  - Two invisible characters in a play by this man steal items from a table before the title character punches the (*) Pope. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, Warwick kills Piers Gaveston, the lover of a character whose insides are burned with a hot poker at the play's end.
  - In a play by this man, Valdes and Cornelius assist the title scholar, who says "Was this the face that launched a thousand ships?" upon meeting Helen of Troy.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Edward II and Doctor Faustus, a contemporary of Shakespeare who was killed in a bar fight. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe [accept "On the Blank Verse of Marlowe"]
  - An essay titled for this author examines a line of Spenser's Faerie Queene about "blooms more white than Erycina's brows" and compares it to this author's lines about "airy brows" and "white breasts of the queen of love". [PWR]
  - That T. [PWR]
  - S. [PWR]
  - Eliot essay analyzes this author's descriptions of a "Scythian shepherd" wooing Zenocrate  as examples of his "blank verse". [PWR]
  - In the prologue to a play by this author, the line "I count religion but a (*) childish toy / And hold there is no sin but ignorance" is delivered by Machiavel . [PWR]
  - In one of his plays, the title conqueror dies after he burns the Qur'an; in another, a scholar speaks of how the "topless towers of Ilium" were "burned" by a "face that launched a thousand ships." For 10 points, name this author of Tamburlaine, The Jew of Malta, and Doctor Faustus. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe
  - In a discussion of the mystery of falling in love in one poem, this author states that "let it suffice / What we behold is censured by our eyes".
  - That poem by this poet also describes a place where some "Compile sharp satires" to assuage "their violent passions".
  - The speaker of one poem by this poet offers the addressee "a belt of straw and Ivy buds, / With Coral clasps and Amber studs".
  - The merchant Barabas schemes to take control of the title location of one play by this poet of "Hero and Leander" and "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love".
  - For 10 points name this playwright of The Jew of Malta. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: William Shakespeare [do not accept "Earl of Oxford," "Christopher Marlowe," etc. from trollers]
  - This poet promises to stop his infidelity by drinking his lover's "potion," claiming "no bitterness that I will bitter think, nor double penance to correct correction." In that poem, he calls his writing a "public means which public manners breed" and compares his branded name to a "dyer's hand." In another poem, he describes an entity "whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken." He described that entity as "the star to every wandering bark" and "an ever-fixed mark," and claims that it is not true if it "bends with the remover to remove" or if it (*) "alters when it alteration finds." This author of "Let me not to the marriage of true minds" declared that his beloved "shall not fade... so long lives this, and this gives life to thee" after calling her "more lovely and more temperate." For 10 points, name this author whose sonnets include "Shall I compare thee to a Summer's day?" [PWR,GIVE]

[T10] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe
  - One of this author's poems states, "It lies not in our power to love or hate" and asks, "Who ever loved, that loved not at first sight?" Neptune mistakes one title character of that poem for Ganymede and almost drowns him.
  - This author wrote another poem whose speaker pledges to make "A cap of flowers, and a kirtle / Embroidered all with leaves of myrtle." The former poem by this author begins, "On (*) Hellespont, guilty of true-love's blood" and describes loving youths from Abydos and Sestos. [PWR]
  - Another of this author's poems says, "we will all the pleasures prove" after imploring, "Come live with me and be my love." For 10 points, name this author of Hero and Leander and "The Passionate Shepherd to his Love" as well as the plays The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe
  - This poet lamented that the "terror of night-prowlers" is "encased in an urn" in his Latin elegy for the Lord Chief Baron of the Exchequer, Roger Manwood.
  - One of his characters states, "Nature, that framed us of four elements, warring within our breasts for regiment, doth teach us all to have aspiring minds," after overthrowing Cosroe.
  - The speakers lists "a kirtle embroidered all with leaves of myrtle" and "a gown made of the finest wool which from our pretty lambs we pull" in his poem that begins with the speaker's request, "Come live with me and be my Love." For 10 points, name this English poet of "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" and such plays as Tamburlaine the Great and Doctor Faustus. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe
  - In one of this author's plays, a caged man asks his wife to fetch him a drink before dashing his head against the bars and killing himself.
  - The protagonist of that play claims to "hold the Fates bound fast in iron chains, And with my hand turn Fortune's wheel about." Another character created by him dies when a knight blows a trumpet and he falls into the trap he had set for Calymath.
  - Walter Raleigh's poem "The Nymph's Reply" was a response to a pastoral poem by him.
  - One play by this author of Tamburlaine the Great, Parts I and II has a prologue delivered by Machiavel.
  - The title character of another play asks asks to see "the face that launch'd a thousand ships".
  - For 10 points, name this English Renaissance author of The Jew of Malta, "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" and The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe
  - This author created a character who is compared to a flying fish which is hated by the rest of the fish in the sea.
  - One play by this author contains the first notable English use of the pseudo-Italian phrase che sera, sera, spoken as part of a monologue about the idea that "the reward of sin is death." Two of this author's plays include characters named Callapine, one of whom is an Ottoman pasha and the other is the son of a Turkish king who is killed by the title character, who asks "It is not passing brave to be a king?" He wrote an unfinished poem about two lovers which was completed by George Chapman, but is better known for a poem which inspired a reply by Sir Walter Raleigh.
  - One of this author's characters says "make me immortal with a kiss" to Helen, whom he describes as "the face that launch'd a thousand ships." For 10 points, name this author of plays like Edward II, Doctor Faustus, and The Jew of Malta. [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Marlowe
  - One play by this author features a monologue about being sure to "deal thyself a king" spoken by the Duke of Guise, while another ends with the title character being murdered with a red-hot poker stuck up his anus as punishment for sodomy.
  - In addition to The Massacre at Paris and Edward II, he wrote a pair of plays about a protagonist who dies after burning the Qur'an and about a man who falls into his own trap and gets boiled alive.
  - For 10 points, name this Elizabethan dramatist who wrote Tamburlane, The Jew of Malta, and Doctor Faustus. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An Elizabethan-era tradition of dramatic performances at these places produced the first English tragedy, the Seneca-imitating play Gorboduc. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: universities [or colleges; accept University Wits; prompt on schools or educational institutions]):
    Name these venues where comedies like Gammer Gurton's Needle were staged before James Burbage built the first English playhouse. Robert Greene and Thomas Lodge belonged to a group of playwrights known as these places' "wits."
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    This University Wit found greater success on the professional London stage with his so-called "mighty line" of blank verse, which this author employed in plays like Tamburlaine and Doctor Faustus.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Roister Doister):
    The most enduring University comedy was this circa 1553 play by Nicholas Udall, in which Dame Christian Custance is pestered by the boastful title character while betrothed to the straightlaced Gavin Goodluck.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author noted Swinburne's poetic contributions despite the fact that "we do not greatly enjoy" him and "the more serious condemnation" that "at one period ... we did enjoy him and now no longer." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot] (The "immature poets" line is from the essay "Philip Massinger.")):
    Name this author of "Swinburne as Poet" who claimed, "Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal." This author thought the line "Beauty is truth, truth beauty" a "serious blemish" on John Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    Eliot's collection of literary criticism, The Sacred Wood, includes an essay about this author who included "The Lamb" and "The Tyger" in his Songs of Innocence and Experience.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe; accept "Some Notes on the Blank Verse of Christopher Marlowe"] (The play is Doctor Faustus.)):
    Eliot disputes Swinburne's claim that this author was "the father of English tragedy" in "Some Notes on the Blank Verse of" this author. In a play by this author, Helen of Troy is asked to "make me immortal with a kiss."

[B3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The genre of the "villain play," in which evil characters are given leading roles, flourished in popularity during the Elizabethan era. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    This playwright used villains as the protagonists of his plays The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Giles Over-reach [or Sir Giles Over-reach]):
    Philip Massinger's A New Way to Pay Old Debts is best remembered for this villain who scams his nephew Frank Welborn into poverty. Edmund Kean's performances helped repopularize this character, whose name hints at his selfishness and greed.
  Part 3 (ans: revenge [accept revenge tragedy; accept The Revenger's Tragedy]):
    A genre of tragedy named for this action often included an archetypal villain, such as Lorenzo in Thomas Kyd's The Spanish Tragedy. Vindice is the title performer of this action in a tragedy once thought to be by Cyril Tourneur but now attributed to Thomas Middleton.

[B4] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a monologue from Henry VI Part 3, the future King Richard III claims that he can "add colours to the chameleon" and set this "murderous" person "to school." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Machiavel [or Niccolo Machiavelli]):
    Name this real-life person who calls religion "but a childish toy" in the opening monologue of one play. That monologue begins, "Albeit the world thinks [this person] is dead, / Yet was his soul but flown beyond the alps."
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    Machiavel delivers the opening monologue to this author's The Jew of Malta. This author was murdered in 1593 after writing Edward the Second and Doctor Faustus.
  Part 3 (ans: Tamburlaine [or Tamerlane; or Timur the Lame]):
    Like Machiavelli, Marlowe portrays this historical figure as ruthlessly power-hungry in the violent play titled for him. In that play, this person keeps the Turkish emperor in a cage and burns copies of the Qur'an.

[B5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The first production of Athol Fugard's Serpent Players was an adaptation of this play entitled The Cure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mandrake [or La Mandragola]):
    Name this play, whose prologue wishes that "all of you might be tricked as" the "wise young woman" Lucrezia, whom Callimaco gives the title drug while disguised as a doctor.
  Part 2 (ans: Niccolo Machiavelli [Niccolo di Bernardo dei Machiavelli; or Nicholas Machiavel]):
    This author of The Mandrake lends his name to a stock character of English Renaissance drama whose ruthless scheming is reminiscent of the advice given in his treatise The Prince.
  Part 3 (ans: The Jew of Malta [or The Famous Tragedy of the Rich Jew of Malta] (by Christopher Marlowe)):
    The ghost of Machiavel opens this Elizabethan play, whose Machiavellian title character drinks "of poppy and cold mandrake juice" to fake his own death after poisoning a convent of nuns, including Abigail.

[B6] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Izaak Walton's The Compleat Angler, the milkmaid Maudlin sings this poem in exchange for a fish from Piscator. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love"):
    Name this poem quoted in the first line of John Donne's fishing-inspired "The Bait." This poem's speaker declares "we will all the pleasures prove," promising "a bed of roses" and "a belt of straw and ivy buds."
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    This Elizabethan author of the poem "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" wrote the play Doctor Faustus.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]):
    In a response to Marlowe's poem, this author declared "where a Freud in need is a Freud indeed / we'll always be Jung together." This author's poem "Inventory" notes: "Four be the things I'd been better without: Love, curiosity, freckles, and doubt."

[B7] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This literary undertaking produced the lines "Love is a golden bubble, full of dreams, / That waking breaks, and fills us with extremes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: completingHero and Leander [accept any reasonable synonym for "completing"]):
    Name this task that added four sestiads ("SESS-tee-ads") to the existing two. It began after lines describing how Night "o'ercome with anguish, shame, and rage, / Dang'd down to hell her loathsome carriage" and ends with the protagonists being turned into Acanthides ("uh-KAAN-thuh-deez").
  Part 2 (ans: George Chapman):
    The aforementioned completion of Hero and Leander was by this author of two tragedies about Bussy D'Ambois("dam-BWAH"). A celebrated 17th-century English translation by this author begins "Achilles's bane full wrath resound, O Goddesse."
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    The first two sestiads of Hero and Leander were by this Elizabethan poet, who opened his poem "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" with the line "Come live with me and be my love."

[B8] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in Henry VI, Part III boasts "I can add colours to the chameleon, / Change shapes with Proteus for advantage," and set this figure "to school." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Niccolo Machiavelli [or Machiavel]):
    Name this person. In the prologue of a play, this person tells those who think him dead that his soul has "flown beyond the Alps" and professes to "count religion but a childish toy, / And hold there is no sin but ignorance."
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    "Machiavel" speaks the prologue to The Jew of Malta, a play by this contemporary of Shakespeare who was stabbed to death in a bar fight at the age of 29.
  Part 3 (ans: Joan of Arc [or Saint Joan; or Joan la Pucelle; or Joan Puzel]):
    In Henry VI, Part I, York calls Alencon a "notorious Machiavel" when this character reveals that Alencon was her lover. George Bernard Shaw's play titled for this person ends with a dream set 25 years after her death.

[B9] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: William Carlos Williams defended this poem in one of his own poems that begins "We cannot go to the country / for the country will bring us / no peace." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd"):
    Identify this 1596 poem in which the speaker tells a suitor that she has no interest "To live with thee and be thy love," referencing an earlier poem by a different author.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    Sir Walter Raleigh's "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd" is a response to this man's poem "The Passionate Shepherd to his Love." He also wrote "Hero and Leander."
  Part 3 (ans: Philomela):
    In the second stanza in "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd," Raleigh refers to this Greek mythological figure, saying that she "becometh dumb." Sir Philip Sidney references this figure's myth in a poem in which he tells her story, "The Nightingale."

[B10] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each-answer the following about controversial author attributions in literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    In 2016, the New Oxford Shakespeare made headlines for using "big data" to attribute the Henry VI plays to this playwright in collaboration with Shakespeare. This man wrote The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
  Part 2 (ans: Primary Colors):
    Donald Foster, who is best-known for his work on Shakespeare authorship, also used stylometry to identify this anonymous bestseller as the work of Joe Klein. This roman a clef is about Bill Clinton's first presidential campaign.
  Part 3 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Textual analysis programs have recently re-reattributed the novels of this author to Domenico Starnone, whose novels Ties and Trick were translated into English by Jhumpa Lahiri. Others believe that this author's works were written by Starnone's wife, Anita Raja.

[B11] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This man played Joe Keller in the 2019 Broadway production of Arthur Miller's All My Sons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tracy Letts [or Tracy S. Letts]):
    Identify this man who appeared as George, opposite Amy Morton's Martha, in an acclaimed 2010 Steppenwolf Theatre production of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
  Part 2 (ans: August: Osage County):
    As a playwright, Letts wrote about the dysfunctional Weston family's untimely reunion in this Oklahoma-set play.
  Part 3 (ans: Marlowe [accept Mary Page Marlowe or Christopher Marlowe]):
    In a 2016 play, Letts cycled through various points in the life of an Ohio accountant with this surname. An earlier playwright with this surname wrote about the murderous merchant Barabas in The Jew of Malta.

[B12] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The minor poet Henry Petowe ("") wrote a completion of this unfinished poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hero and Leander):
    Name this poem whose divisions were called "sestiads" by George Chapman, who also wrote a completion of it. As You Like It quotes this poem's line "Whoever loved, that loved not at first sight?"
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    Hero and Leander was the longest poem written by this British author before his death in a Deptford pub brawl in 1593. His dramatic works include The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love"):
    This poem by Marlowe occasioned many poetic replies, including John Donne's ("dun's") "The Bait" and a parodic reply by Walter Raleigh.

[B13] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these things related to the comic novel Antic Hay, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Leonard Huxley):
    Antic Hay was written by this English author of Crome Yellow as well as Brave New World.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Petronius Arbiter):
    Antic Hay features what may be the first mistaken description of a vomitorium as a place to vomit in an allusion to the Satyricon, a novel by this Roman author.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    The title of Antic Hay comes from Edward II, a play by this author who also wrote about a conqueror who dies after burning a Qu'ran in another work.

[B14] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A man remarks at how close he is to one of these features when he is drinking at the Farolito bar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: volcano [prompt on mountains; accept Under the Volcano]):
    Name these geographical features. They appear in the title of a novel in which Yvonne and Hugh set off into a forest to search for Hugh's brother, who is obsessed with drinking mezcal.
  Part 2 (ans: Malcolm Lowry):
    This English author wrote about Geoffrey Firmin, a British consul in Mexico who struggles with alcoholism, in the novel Under the Volcano.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    In Under the Volcano, Geoffrey despises Jacques Laruelle, first for having an affair with Yvonne, but also for keeping his book of Elizabethan plays. Laruelle wants to direct a film based on this man's play Doctor Faustus.

[B15] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This nine-word line begins a speech which ends, "none but thou shalt be my paramour." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships"):
    Name this line spoken by Doctor Faustus after summoning back Helen of Troy.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    Doctor Faustus was written by this English playwright and contemporary of Shakespeare. Barabas and Ithamore poison Abigail in his play The Jew of Malta.
  Part 3 (ans: the Seven Deadly Sins):
    At the end of the sixth scene of Doctor Faustus, Lucifer presents personifications of this group as entertainment for Faustus. A member of this group cries, "O, my sweet gold!"

[B16] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this play dies after falling into a boiling cauldron. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Jew of Malta):
    Identify this play in which Barabas sends a servant to murder al of the nuns in the convent that is home to his daughter, Abigail.
  Part 2 (ans: Ithamore):
    Name this Turkish, Christian hating servant of Barabas. He is blackmailed into betrayed his master by a prostitute.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    Ithamore and Barabas are creations of this playwright of The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus.
