=== STOCK CLUES: Edward II ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 49 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Edward III [or Edward of Windsor; prompt on Edward]
  - This ruler installed his skilled treasurer William Edington and Lord Chancellor William of Wykeham as Bishops of Winchester.
  - This intended recipient of the Fieschi  Letter lavished gifts on his widely-hated mistress Alice Perrers.
  - Jean Froissart  recorded the story of six burghers who sacrificed themselves to lift this monarch's siege of Calais , only to be spared execution on the intervention of his wife Philippa of Hainault .
  - This king imposed price controls to address a manpower shortage caused by the Black Death in the Statute of Laborers.
  - This ruler names a phase of a conflict during which his troops used the longbow to score victories at Poitiers  and Crecy.
  - For 10 points, name this father of the "Black Prince" who ruled England at the start of the Hundred Years' War. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Edward II [or Edward of Carnarvon; prompt on Edward]
  - John of Powderham claimed that he was a changeling swapped with this king; a more modern conspiracy theory surrounding him cites the Fieschi  Letter to claim that he died in Italy. [PWR]
  - This man and one of his friends annoyed nobles by giving them nicknames like "Black Dog" and "Bursting Belly." A poem criticizing his reign was titled for the "evil times of" this king, who was forced to sign Ordinances restricting his power. [PWR]
  - He executed the Earl of Lancaster after the (*) Despenser War and fled to Dunbar Castle in one battle. [PWR]
  - This king probably had a homosexual relationship with Piers Gaveston, but he probably didn't have a red-hot poker pushed up his anus when he was kept in Berkeley Castle after being overthrown by Roger Mortimer and Isabella.
  - For 10 points, name this British king who lost the Battle of Bannockburn and succeeded Edward Longshanks. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: The death of Edward II [accept murder of Edward II or any other obvious equivalents that convey the event caused the transition from Edward II being alive to his being dead]
  - An account of a meeting with William the Welshman in Antwerp suggests that this event occurred later than often believed. [PWR]
  - Suspects in this event include John Maltravers and Sir Thomas Gurney. [PWR]
  - Guillaume de Nogaret's [gee-YOHM-duh-noh-guh-RAY] charges against Boniface VIII, adapted by Adam Orleton, formed the (*) rape-torture narrative of this event.
  - Geoffrey le Baker claimed this event was instigated by Roger Mortimer and Isabella in response to rumours involving Piers Gaveston.
  - For 10 points, identify this event, possibly caused by a red-hot poker in the royal anus. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Edward II [or Edward of Caernarfon]
  - After this man was given a cup worth fifty pounds at Peterborough Abbey, he refused to accept the gift unless his friend was given an equal gift.
  - In the Boulogne Agreement, nobles demanded that this king exile the 1st Earl of Cornwall, who eventually returned and was executed by a group of barons led by Thomas of Lancaster.
  - This ruler was advised by Hugh Despenser the Younger and, like Hugh, was opposed by Roger Mortimer.
  - Most historians believe that he had a homosexual relationship with Piers Gaveston.
  - Eventually overthrown by a force sent by his wife, Isabella of France, this ruler lost the Battle of Bannockburn and was the successor of a king called the "Hammer of the Scots." For 10 points, name this king of England from 1307 to 1327, the son and successor of Edward Longshanks. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Edward II [or The Troublesome Reign and Lamentable Death of Edward the Second, King of England, with the Tragical Fall of Proud Mortimer]
  - Charles Lamb stated that the murder scene in this play "aroused pity and terror beyond any scene ancient or modern." In the 25th scene of the play, its main character states that he has been unable to sleep for ten days due to one playing "continually upon a drum," and that his guards Maltrevers and Gurney have been tormenting him.
  - In that scene of this play, the executioner Lightborn taunts the title character moments before killing him.
  - Bertolt Brecht and Lion Feuchtwanger collaborated on an adaptation of this play, which opens with the title character's lover reading a letter stating "share the kingdom with thy dearest friend." After the Queen in this play rescinds an exile to Ireland, the Earls Lancaster and Warwick are executed by the title character, for killing his beloved Piers Gaveston.
  - Isabella of France is imprisoned at the end of, for 10 points, what history play by Christopher Marlowe? [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Edward II [prompt on "Edward"]
  - In the early days of this king's reign, his praises were sung in a series of five prophetic poems by a self-proclaimed marshal of Stratford-at-Bow named Adam Davy.
  - In the poem "The Sayings of the Four Philosophers," this king's rule is criticized by "four wise men" who lament that he broke regulations imposed by the Lords Ordainers.
  - A poem that begins "whii werre and wrake in londe and manslauht is i-come," titled for this ruler's "Evil Times," is a social commentary on the ineffectiveness of his rule and the widespread famine (*) that struck Europe during his reign.
  - He himself was credited with writing a "Lament" after his removal from the throne at Kenilworth Castle and subsequent imprisonment at Berkeley Castle at the behest of his wife, Isabella of France.
  - For 10 points, name this English king whose unpopularity stemmed from his relationship with Piers Gaveston and the disastrous defeat at Bannockburn. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Edward [or Edward Bruce; or Edward Balliol; or Edward I; or Edward II]
  - After becoming the first High King of Ireland since Brian O'Neill, a man with this first name died fighting John de Bermingham at the Battle of Faughart.
  - At the Feast of the Swans, another man with this name was knighted by his father before going on a campaign to avenge the death of John Comyn.
  - A third man of this name was supported by the English victory at the Battle of Halidon Hill, which was not enough to overcome his rival David II's claim to the throne.
  - In addition to a brother of Robert the Bruce and the son of John Balliol, people with this name include a king who was probably the lover of Piers Gaveston and who lost the Battle of Bannockburn.
  - For 10 points, give this name held by the English kings during the Scottish wars of independence, including one nicknamed Longshanks. [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Edward II
  - During this monarch's rule it became necessary to gain Parliament's approval before the king or queen left the country.
  - Under this monarch, baronial consent for royal appointments was also instituted.
  - Those laws were passed by this monarch's nephew Thomas, duke of Lancaster, who was defeated at the Battle of Boroughbridge.
  - The Parliament of York overturned the Lord Ordinances at the behest of this monarch, who was murdered at Berkeley Castle.
  - One favorite of this monarch was hanged by the forces of Roger Mortimer and the She Wolf of France, who was the daughter of Philip the Fair.
  - Despite definitely having homosexual relations with Piers Gaveston, this monarch was married to Queen Isabella.
  - For 10 points, name this king who lost to Robert the Bruce at the Battle of Bannockburn. [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Edward III [prompt on Edward]
  - Early in his reign, this ruler attempted to suppress the influence of Irish culture on English settlers in the Statutes of Kilkenny. [PWR]
  - This king supported the victor of the Battle of Dupplin Moor by using heavy arrow fire to break the schiltron formations of Archibald Douglas, who attempted to march up Halidon Hill. [PWR]
  - That victory allowed Edward Balliol to usurp the throne of David II. [PWR]
  - One of this man's sons invaded Galicia in an ill-fated attempt to become king of (*) Castile, and later served as Duke of Aquitaine.
  - William Montagu helped this victor at the Battle of Sluys to lead a coup against the lover of his mother Isabella, Roger Mortimer.
  - Another of this man's sons by Philippa of Hainault won the Battle of Poitiers and helped him win the Battle of Crecy.
  - For 10 points, name this English king during the Hundred Years' War who fathered Edward the Black Prince. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A correspondent who met the noted bibliophile Richard de Bury in this city asked him for information on the location of Ultima Thule, but Richard merely returned home to consult his books. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Avignon("AV-in-yon") [or Avinhon or Avignoun]):
    Name this city. Marsilius of Padua's contemporary 1324 treatise Defensor pacis vehemently opposed rulers based in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward III [prompt on Edward]):
    Many English and Italian diplomats intermingled at the papal court of Avignon, which was where Richard de Bury met Petrarch ("PET-rark") on a diplomatic mission for this ruler. This king led England into the Hundred Years' War in 1337.
  Part 3 (ans: Durham [accept Symeon of Durham]):
    Having secured the bishopric of this city at Avignon, Richard returned to England and completed his work on his Philobiblon. The chronicler Symeon earlier recounted the legend of Saint Cuthbert's relics refusing to move from the site of this city.

[B2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This king pillaged the Lothian countryside during an unsuccessful campaign against Scotland known as "Burnt Candlemas." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward III [prompt on Edward]):
    Name this English king. This king's troops moved the Black Rood of Scotland to Durham Cathedral after humiliating David II's troops at the Battle of Neville's Cross.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War [prompt on Edwardian War]):
    David II invaded England to assist its ally France, which was being invaded during this conflict. The English were victorious at the Battles of Crecy ("kray-SEE") and Poitiers ("pwaht-YAY") during this conflict.
  Part 3 (ans: Balliol ("BAY-lee-ul") [or de Bailleul; accept Edward Balliol or John Balliol]):
    During the Second Scottish war of Independence, Edward III backed a royal claimant from this family with first name Edward. Edward I appointed John, a Scottish king with this surname, at a 1292 parliament in Berwick-upon-Tweed.

[B3] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Upon hearing that a member of this family hadn't fatally stabbed John Comyn, Roger de Kirkpatrick yelled "I'll be sure," ran back in the church, and finished the job. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bruce [accept Robert the Bruce or Edward Bruce; accept Brus; accept Clan Bruce or Clann Brus]):
    Name this family. Roger Mortimer was sent to Ireland to fend off an invasion by a member of this family who died at the Battle of Faughart ["fah-heart"].
  Part 2 (ans: Edward [accept Edward II or Edward of Carnarvon; accept Edward I or Edward Longshanks; accept Edward the Confessor]):
    Robert the Bruce originally seized power by defeating John Balliol, who had been chosen by an English King with this name. Other English Kings with this regnal name include one nicknamed "Longshanks" and one nicknamed "the Confessor."
  Part 3 (ans: House of Plantagenet [or Angevins]):
    Edward Bruce's invasion of Ireland also attempted to do away with Laudabiliter, a papal bull that ostensibly granted Ireland to this dynasty. Edward II was from this British royal house, whose first ruler was Henry II.

[B4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This king punished his daughters for adultery with Norman knights after the knights were found with embroidered purses given by Isabella of France to her sisters-in-law. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip IV of France [accept Philip the Fair or Philippe le Bel; accept the Iron King or le Roi de fer]):
    Name this king who dealt with the aftermath of the Tour de Nesle ("nell") affair. This king antagonized the Flemish after taking control of Flanders despite a disastrous defeat at the Battle of the Golden Spurs.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward III [prompt on Edward]):
    As a result of widespread suspicion of women in power after the Tour de Nesle affair and confusions over Salic law, this English king, the son of Isabella, disputed the throne of France with Philip VI.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Edward III's claim was strengthened by the fact that the senior line of the Capetian dynasty failed to produce a male heir, leading to this lengthy conflict between England and France.

[B5] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: In England, a long-standing one of these laws limited peasants to a coarse cloth known as russet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sumptuary laws [or leges sumptuariae]):
    Give this term derived from the Latin for "expense," which describes laws restricting extravagant purchases. Though in practice largely unenforceable, they aimed to restrict the clothing people wore along social class lines.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward III Plantagenet [prompt on just Edward]):
    This English monarch issued at least three sweeping sumptuary laws across his five-decade reign. He ruled over England during the Black Death and the start of the Hundred Years' War.
  Part 3 (ans: Privy Council):
    Later, during Elizabeth I's reign, sumptuary statutes were handed down by this advisory body made up of 19, then 11, of her favorite lords. Its members could sit alongside judges as the Court of Star Chamber on Wednesdays and Fridays.

[B6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Fieschi (f'YES-kee) Letter claimed this man became a monk or someone known as "William the Welshman." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward II [prompt on Edward]):
    Name this man who was killed when a letter was sent to Berkeley Castle by his wife and her lover. That letter depended on a comma placement to either indicate "do not be afraid to kill" this man, or "do not kill" this man.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabella of France [or Isabella the She-Wolf; prompt on the She-Wolf of France]):
    This woman, Edward II's wife, probably ordered his death in concert with her lover, Roger Mortimer. She avoided being executed when Mortimer was deposed by Edward III.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Scotland):
    Edward I, Edward II, and Roger Mortimer all battled this kingdom, whose leaders included Robert the Bruce and William Wallace.

[B7] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: After the ascent of the Despenser family, this woman left the English court for Gascony, then returned with an army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isabella of France [prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this "She-Wolf," a queen of England who may have arranged the murder of her husband in 1326 to rule the country with her lover, Roger Mortimer.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward II):
    Isabella of France was married to this feckless English king, most famous for alienating his barons with his affair with the incredibly annoying Piers Gaveston.
  Part 3 (ans: Philippa of Hainaut (AY-no)):
    Isabella raised her army to invade England partly by betrothing her son to this woman, the daughter of William the Good, Count of Holland. Jean Froissart served as this woman's secretary.

[B8] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: It has been alleged this king was killed after a red hot poker was inserted into his anus. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward II [accept Edward of Caernarfon]):
    Name this English king who lost the Battle of Bannockburn against Robert the Bruce.
  Part 2 (ans: Piers Gaveston [accept 1st Earl of Cornwall]):
    Another area of intrigue was Edward II's sexuality and his relationship with this Gascon nobleman who was executed on Blacklow Hill near Kenilworth.
  Part 3 (ans: Lords Ordainer):
    Dislike of Gaveston, as well as difficulties in the war against Scotland, led to this group of eight earls, seven bishops and six barons to issue a series of restrictions on the power of Edward II. They were not repealed until one of these men, Thomas of Lancaster, was executed.

[B9] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about plays attributed correctly or incorrectly to Shakespeare, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Raigne of Edward the Third [or Edward III]):
    Shakespeare was first tied in 1760 to this play, which opens with the title king realizing he should rule France and ends with his son, the Black Prince, bringing him John II, with battles at Sluys, Crecy, and Poitiers in between.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard II):
    Michael Egan has declared Thomas of Woodstock a "newly authenticated" Shakespeare play on this king, who orders the death of the title character; Egan and E.B. Everitt see it as a prequel to a Shakespeare play named for this king.
  Part 3 (ans: The Second Maiden's Tragedy [do not prompt on "The Tyrant", but accept "Massinger's The Tyrant" or logical equivalents; do not prompt on "The Usurping Tyrant"]):
    Shakespeare, Chapman and Goffe appear on the only manuscript for this play, in which Govianus's beloved, "The Lady", kills herself to avoid the lusts of the Tyrant, who then goes mad and adores her corpse until he is killed.

[B10] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man led some of the English troops that slaughtered over three thousand French citizens in the Massacre at Limoges. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John of Gaunt, duke of Lancaster, earl of Richmond, duc d'Aquitaine):
    Identify this nobleman who launched an unsuccessful campaign in 1386 to claim the Spanish throne. His children with Catherine Swynford began the Beaufort line.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward III [prompt on "Edward of Windsor"]):
    John of Gaunt was the third surviving son of this English king, who led the country into the Hundred Years War. This king was also the father of Edward, the Black Prince.
  Part 3 (ans: The Good Parliament):
    At this 1376 Parliament, Sir Peter de la Mara delivered a list of grievances against the king. This Parliament attempted to guarantee the right of succession for the future Richard II, but a year later John of Gaunt called another Parliament which declared the acts of this body null and void.

[B11] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The carruca replaced the simpler ard, a type of this device in the ninth and tenth century, greatly increasing agricultural productivity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: plows):
    Name this farming tool that turns up soil before sowing, not to be confused with the hoe.
  Part 2 (ans: three-field system):
    The use of the carruca was accompanied by adoption of this system of crop rotation. Unlike the system it replaced, this one had a smaller amount of the total land lie fallow and used some of the land for legumes like peas or lentils.
  Part 3 (ans: Edward II [or Edward Caernarvon; prompt on Edward]):
    Improvements in agriculture couldn't prevent the Great Famine of 1315 during the reign of this English king. This man's son of the same name began fighting the Hundred Years' War.

[B12] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man was presented as a baby at Caernarvon Castle as a man who "spoke no English at all," and creepy necromancer John of Nottingham tried to assassinate him in some weird ritual with a wax doll. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward II [prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this king who was defeated by Robert the Bruce at the Battle of Bannockburn and who was temporarily overthrown by his wife, Isabella, and Roger Mortimer.
  Part 2 (ans: Piers Gaveston, Earl of Cornwall):
    Edward was criticized for his less-than-kosher relationship with this man, who was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Ireland but later executed on the orders of the Earls of Lancaster and Warwick.
  Part 3 (ans: Boulogne Agreement [or synonyms for Agreement]):
    When Edward left England for his wedding, he installed Gaveston as regent, prompting several nobles to sign this document, which implicitly criticized Gaveston for doing things "against the king's rights." It inspired the Ordinance of 1311.

[B13] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man defeated his brothers Owain and Daffyd at the 1255 battle of Bryn Derwin, and he was later drawn into conflict with England after Daffyd attacked Hawarden Castle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Llywelyn ap Gruffud [or Llywelyn the Last]):
    Name this last independent Prince of Wales.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcher Lords):
    To keep uppity Welshmen at bay, kings of England gave lands near the Welsh border to these noblemen. The Earls of Chester, Shrewsbury, and Hereford were some of the most notable ones.
  Part 3 (ans: Edward II [prompt on Edward]):
    This future English king was the first heir to the throne to be made Prince of Wales. As king, this man possibly had a homosexual affair with Piers Gaveston and Hugh Despenser.

[B14] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man exiled David II to France upon taking power, and returned to his throne after the Battle of Halidon Hill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Balliol):
    Name this claimant to the Scottish throne, who ruled the nation from 1332 to 1336. This capture of his father, John, had earlier left a power vacuum that led to Robert the Bruce's murder of John Comyn at Dumfries.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward III):
    Balliol was supported by this English king. His father and namesake was overthrown by this man's mother, Isabella of France.
  Part 3 (ans: Treaty of Bretigny):
    Edward III's reign saw the signing of this treaty in 1360. It released John II of France from captivity, and in exchange England received a substantial land grant that included Calais.
