=== STOCK CLUES: Robert Indiana ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Indiana [or Robert Clark]
  - A series of works by this artist are surrounded by the caption "Just as in the anatomy of man, every nation must have its hind part" and show maps of southern states surrounded by rings.
  - This artist included the dates 1914 and 1989 in the first of a series of elegies for Marsden Hartley.
  - The Toronto-based artist collective General Idea parodied this artist's most iconic work to raise awareness for AIDS.
  - This artist first used his most-famous motif in a 1965 Christmas card he designed for the Museum of Modern Art, and he created a Hebrew version of that motif for the Israel Museum.
  - A park in Philadelphia is nicknamed for a sculpture by this artist whose second letter is a tilted "O." For 10 points, name this Pop Artist behind the LOVE sculptures, who changed his surname to the name of his native state. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The art collective General Idea used the typography from this artist's signature works to create billboards and bags promoting AIDS awareness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Indiana [or Robert Clark]):
    Name this Pop artist whose most iconic design, noted for a crooked O, names a park in Philadelphia.
  Part 2 (ans: red):
    The letters in Robert Indiana's LOVE sculptures are usually this color. Jan van Eyck painted a man wearing a turban of this color.
  Part 3 (ans: wallpaper):
    In 1988, General Idea adapted their AIDS design into this medium. William Morris produced over 50 Arts and Crafts patterns for this medium like Sunflower, which was printed by Jeffrey & Co before being pasted into place.

[B2] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Current Events
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about First Lady Jill Biden's fashion:
  Part 1 (ans: Vogue):
    In August 2021, Jill Biden appeared wearing a blue floral pattern dress and the caption "A First Lady for All of Us" on the cover of this magazine. This magazine's chief editor Anna Wintour refused to allow Melania Trump to appear on its cover during the Trump presidency.
  Part 2 (ans: love [the Christmas card featured Robert Indiana's Love motif]):
    Biden wore a black jacket with this word on the back during the Bidens' trip to Europe. This word appeared on a Christmas card issued by the Museum of Modern Art in 1965.
  Part 3 (ans: tights [accept patterned fishnet-adjacent tights; accept fishnets even though they weren't actually fishnets]):
    On April First, Biden went viral when she was photographed wearing this piece of clothing while deplaning from Air Force One. To the surprise of no one, conservatives lambasted this clothing as trashy and unbecoming, while liberals defended it as stylish and edgy.

[B3] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The initials "W.C.W." at the bottom of this painting refer to the poet who inspired it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold):
    Name this Charles Demuth painting that contains three of the title numerals.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Indiana):
    This artist stenciled "THE FIGURE 5" below his riff on Charles Demuth's I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. Visitors at the 1964 New York World's Fair were confused by a lighted sculpture by this pop artist of the word "EAT" that was not advertising a restaurant.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda]):
    Jasper Johns's similar painting, Figure 7, features the title numeral above a reproduction of this painting. A woman from the Gherardini family may be the person smiling in this Leonardo da Vinci painting.

[B4] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Leonid Brezhnev engages in a "fraternal" form of this action in an image spray painted onto the Berlin Wall by Dmitri Vrubel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kissing [or obvious eqivalents; prompt on embracing or similar]):
    Name this action, which is also the subject of a Francesco Hayez painting in Milan. Paolo and Francesca engage in it in an Auguste Rodin sculpture.
  Part 2 (ans: Constantin Brancusi (brin-KOOSH)):
    Long hair is one of the few features distinguishing the woman from the man in a sculpture by this artist titled The Kiss. He created the Table of Silence for a complex at Targu Jiu.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Indiana):
    In Andy Warhol's film Kiss, this pop artist can be seen kissing Marisol Escobar. This artist created LOVE sculptures, which consist of four letters stacked on top of each other.

[B5] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In her essay "Nostalgia of the Body," this artist set forth the principles of her Neo-Concretist movement, which saw the work of art not as a "machine" or "object," but rather as an "almost-body." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lygia Clark):
    Name this Brazilian artist of a series of hinged aluminum sculptures that can be folded, turned, and oriented in various combinations, called Bichos. She also proposed running scissors along a Mobius strip for her Trailings.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Indiana):
    Numbers 1-0 is a set of painted aluminum sculptures, each shaped like a different numerical digit, by this artist. He is more famous for his LOVE sculptures, which stack the word's four letters, with a slanted "O" in a square.
  Part 3 (ans: the Moon):
    A tiny aluminum figurine called Fallen Astronaut, created by Paul Van Hoeydonck, is located on the surface of this location. Along with a commemorative plaque, it was left on this location by the Apollo 15 crew.
