=== STOCK CLUES: Indiana ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the Old Gringo [or el Gringo Viejo; accept Ambrose Bierce or Ambrose until mention; prompt on the Indiana General until mention]
  - While sharing a train car, this character asks a woman if she saw herself in the mirrors of a destroyed ballroom.
  - After this character shoots a pig devouring a corpse, his love interest is forced to have sex with a general whose concubine is La Luna.
  - This character, nicknamed the "Indiana General," shoots through a silver coin while carrying a copy of Don Quixote.
  - This character is shot in the back after some false property papers from the King of Spain are burned by General Thomas Arroyo.
  - Harriet Winslow fights to have this character buried in Arlington Cemetery after dying during the Mexican Revolution.
  - For 10 points, name this fictional representation of Ambrose Bierce who titles a Carlos Fuentes novel. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker remarks that "the fever called 'Living' / Is conquered at last" in an Edgar Allan Poe poem addressed to a girl with this first name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annie [accept "Little Orphant Annie"; accept "For Annie"; accept Raggedy Ann; reject "Annabel"]):
    Give this first name of a girl who is repeatedly told that "the Gobble-uns 'll git you / Ef you / Don't / Watch / Out!" That James Whitcomb Riley poem inspired both a comic strip and a popular children's toy.
  Part 2 (ans: Indiana):
    Riley's poetry, including "Little Orphant Annie," is written using the dialect of this state, leading to his nickname of the "Hoosier poet."
  Part 3 (ans: hired [accept "Our Hired Girl"; accept "The Death of the Hired Man"]):
    Another Riley poem uses this adjective to describe a girl named "'Lizabuth Ann." The line "Home is the place where, when you have to go there, / they have to take you in" appears in a poem about the death of a man described by this adjective.

[B2] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, George proposes to Lucy Morgan after hearing a false rumor that she was engaged to Fred Kinney. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Booth Tarkington):
    Name this author, who depicted three generations of the title family in The Magnificent Ambersons.
  Part 2 (ans: Indiana):
    Tarkington set The Magnificent Ambersons in this state, where he names a theater in its capital's suburb of Carmel. This state's literary "Golden Age" features Tarkington and James Whitcomb Riley, the "Hoosier poet."
  Part 3 (ans: Theodore Dreiser (The novel is Sister Carrie.)):
    This other author of the Golden Age of Indiana literature wrote a novel whose title character becomes an actress after moving to New York City with her husband, George Hurstwood.

[B3] 2020 Delta Burke (2020) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This character tells his son, "I suddenly remembered my Charlemagne" after using his umbrella to scare a flock of birds into a Nazi plane's path. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Jones, Senior (accept "Indiana Jones's father"; prompt on "Jones" but do NOT accept "Indiana Jones")):
    What cinematic archaeologist dedicated his life to finding the Holy Grail and often exclaimed, "This is intolerable!"
  Part 2 (ans: Sean Connery):
    Indiana Jones's father, Henry, was played in The Last Crusade by this Scottish actor, who played James Bond in Goldfinger and shed his mortal coil on Halloween, 2020.
  Part 3 (ans: The Name of the Rose):
    Connery played William of Baskerville in this 1986 film based on the novel of the same name by Umberto Eco.

[B4] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the rake Raymon de Ramiere seduces the title character's maid Noun, then her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Indiana):
    Name this novel in which the title character escapes a loveless marriage to Delmare. She is caught in the July Revolution of 1830 after a letter from Raymon brings her to Paris, but is rescued by her cousin Ralph.
  Part 2 (ans: George Sand [or Amantine-Lucile-Aurore Dupin]):
    The novels Indiana and Consuelo were written by this French author. She described her affair with Frederic Chopin in A Winter in Majorca.
  Part 3 (ans: In Search of Lost Time [or Remembrance of Things Past or A la recherche du temps perdu]):
    The narrator's grandmother gives his mother a group of novels by George Sand in this Marcel Proust doorstopper, which begins with the section "Swann's Way."

[B5] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this novel used Jules Neraud's travel diary to write its sections about the island of Reunion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Indiana):
    Name this novel published in 1832, in which the title character is trapped in a loveless marriage with Colonel Delmare and declares her love for Sir Ralph before leaping over the side of a waterfall.
  Part 2 (ans: George Sand [or Amantine Lucile Aurore Dupin]):
    Indiana was written by this French novelist of Mauprat and Consuelo. She had affairs with Jules Sandeau, Prosper Merimee, and Frederic Chopin.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred de Musset):
    This French author of the plays Lorenzaccio and The Moods of Marianne wrote about his affair with George Sand in his autobiographical novel The Confession of a Child of the Century.

[B6] 2012 Delta Burke (2012) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: James Whitcomb Riley is the most prominent figure in this state's "Golden Age" of literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Indiana):
    Riley, author of the vernacular poem "Raggedy Man," was known as the "Hoosier Poet" because of his celebrations of this state's dialect.
  Part 2 (ans: Little Orphan Annie [or Little Orphant Annie]):
    Riley's best known poem was titled for this parentless girl. That poem inspired the much more famous comic strip depictions of this character, who had a dog named Sandy, a benefactor named Daddy Warbucks, and no pupils in her eyes.
  Part 3 (ans: Theodore Dreiser):
    Another author associated with Indiana's Golden Age is this novelist of Sister Carrie and An American Tragedy.
