=== STOCK CLUES: Arthur Miller ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 58 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 27 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller] (The unnamed play in the first line is Broken Glass.)
  - In a play by this author, a character becomes paralyzed from waist down after reading about the events of Kristallnacht in the newspaper. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author claims "This is Red Hook, not Sicily" before claiming that they are in the "Gullet of New York" and are "Quite civilized, quite American." The first act of a play by this author ends as a character uses just one (*) hand to hold a chair over the head of the protagonist. [PWR]
  - The Italian lawyer Alfieri advises the protagonist of a play by this author to allow his daughter to make her own choices when asked if there is a way to keep her from Rodolpho.
  - The protagonist of that play is murdered by a man he reports to the Immigration Bureau in a knife fight.
  - For 10 points, Marco kills Eddie Carbone in what author's A View From the Bridge? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Purdue IM Housewrite (2024) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller
  - In a play by this author, Joe Keller and Steve Deever sell faulty airplane parts to the government during World War II. [PWR]
  - After the premier of that play, All My Sons, this playwright was investigated by HUAC for being a suspected communist, which inspired a play where (*) Abigail Williams spreads false accusations at John Proctor during the Salem Witch Trials.
  - In another play by this author, the former high-school football star Biff and his brother Happy are a source of disappointment for their father, who commits suicide at the end for life insurance money.
  - For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Crucible and that play about Willy Loman, Death of a Salesman. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Maryland Spring (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller
  - In one of this author's plays, the neighbor boy Bert annoys the central family by trying to see the jail they claim to have in the basement.
  - In a final "Requiem" scene in a play by this author, a character laments how it's "the first time in thirty five-years we were just about free and clear." In a play by this author, Frank Lubey determines that November 25th was a "favorable day" in the (*) horoscope of the missing pilot Larry.
  - In a play by this author, unaware that his wife Linda has made the last payment on their house, Willy Loman commits suicide for life insurance money.
  - For 10 points, name this author of All My Sons and Death of a Salesman. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller (The first two lines clue The Man who had all the Luck.)
  - One of this playwright's characters laments that he didn't want his son Amos to "waste out his life being seventeen different things and ending up nothing" after his son fails to impress a scout from the Detroit Tigers.
  - In that play by this playwright, David overcomes his guilt when he gets an epiphany from saving his sick mink through hard work. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, after being denied a loan for a Florida sports business planned by his brother, a man impulsively (*) steals from his old employer. [PWR]
  - Earlier, that man created by this author repeatedly ignored the studious Bernard in order to spend more time playing football, leading him to discover his father's infidelity while telling him he flunked math.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright, the creator of Happy, Biff, and Willy Loman, who wrote Death of a Salesman. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 Purdue IM Housewrite (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller]
  - In one play by this author, Joe Keller allowed Steve Deever to take the fall for selling faulty airplane cylinders to the Air Force. [PWR]
  - This playwright of All My Sons wrote a play in which Biff drops out of high school after discovering an affair by his father, who laments that a man is sometimes "worth more dead than alive." This playwright allegorized McCarthyism in a play in which (*) Reverend Parris discovers a group of girls led by Abigail dancing in the forest and a doll with a needle in it is used to accuse Elizabeth of witchcraft.
  - For 10 points, both Willy Loman and John Proctor die at the end of plays by what American author of Death of a Salesman and The Crucible? [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller]
  - A wheelchair-bound woman vows to jump out of a window in the prologue of a play by this author, in which a dictator forces Skip L. [PWR]
  - Cheeseboro to make a TV special about a crucifixion. [PWR]
  - The psychoanalyst Leduc rallies prisoners in a play by this author set in 1940s France. [PWR]
  - This author of Resurrection Blues wrote a play in which characters who live in Red Hook learn to "settle for half." Beatrice says her husband can (*) "never have" his niece Catherine in a play by this author in which Marco kills a longshoreman; Alfieri narrates that play centered on Eddie Carbone. [PWR]
  - Anne Deever gives Kate a letter revealing the suicide of a World War II pilot in a play by this author that ends with Joe Keller's death.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of A View From the Bridge and All My Sons. [GIVE]

[T7] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: narrations in The Crucible [accept any answers describing Arthur Miller's notes that provide context in The Crucible; prompt on partial or more general answers; reject answers mentioning "stage directions"]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - One of these works introduces "a paradox in whose grip we still live," with "no prospect yet that we will discover its resolution." Another of these works, which describes the "concept of unity, in which positive and negative are attributes of the same force," remarks that none have laughed when "a tight-skinned, eager-eyed intellectual" says "We cannot look to superstition in this." One of these works describes a group with a "predilection for minding other people's business" and "a good supply of ne'er-do-wells [...], who dallied at the shovelboard in (*) Bridget Bishop's tavern".
  - Another of these works recounts how George Burroughs was imprisoned for debt by his rival James Bayley's brother-in-law, Thomas Putnam.
  - One of these parts of a larger work describes "a farmer in his middle thirties" troubled by the hypocrisy of his Puritan town named John Proctor.
  - For 10 points, describe these works that provide context in a play about the Salem Witch Trials by Arthur Miller. [GIVE]

[T8] 2023 CREEK+ (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller (the unnamed play is A View from the Bridge)
  - A play by this author that features a character given the nickname "Paper Doll" is narrated by Alfieri. [PWR]
  - November 25th is considered a "favorable day" in a different play by this author in which Anne reads her former lover's suicide note.
  - A "Requiem" ends a play by this author in which a woman cries, (*) "we're free."Defective airplane parts are sold by Joe Keller in a play by this author, who created a character who gives a pair of silk stockings to "the Woman." This author of All My Sons wrote a play in which Linda's husband crashes his car for insurance money.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman. [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 TSALT (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller
  - One character in a play by this author tells a story about how a soldier gave him a pair of dry socks. [PWR]
  - That play opens with a discussion about a fallen tree in the central family's backyard. [PWR]
  - Another play by this man sees one character cry "I have given you my soul; leave my name!" before being (*) hanged since his wife Elizabeth did not confirm that he slept with Abigail Williams. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this man who wrote of Joe Keller in All My Sons and John Proctor in The Crucible. [GIVE]

[T10] 2020 SCALE (2020) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller
  - In a play by this author, Mr. [PWR]
  - Frick and Mr. [PWR]
  - Hamilton meet in a mental hospital where their wives are recovering and argue about the values of America. [PWR]
  - That play is The Last Yankee.
  - This author adapted Ibsen's An Enemy of the People to remove its positive outlook on eugenics and racial determinism.
  - In another play by this writer, a man becomes angered at an Italian immigrant who is a beautiful singer and is in love with his niece. [PWR]
  - In another of this man's plays, a man kills himself after his son discovers he sold faulty (*) airplane parts that killed his brotherLarry during World War I.
  - This man also wrote a play in which a rubber hose is found in a basement by Linda, whose husband later kills himself in a car crash.
  - For 10 points, name this author of A View From the Bridge,All My Sons, and Death of a Salesman. [GIVE]

[T11] 2020 Delta Burke (2020) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Arthur Miller
  - In one of this author's works, a number of airmen are killed because Steve Deever sells faulty cylinder heads to the Air Force at Joe Keller's encouragement.
  - In a play by this author, Quinton wrestles with the decision to marry Holga after the suicide of his ex-wife Maggie; that play offers a thinly veiled recounting of this author's relationship with (*) Marilyn Monroe. [PWR]
  - In another play by this man, Thomas Putnam uses wild accusations by Reverend Samuel Parris to grab land in a play that ends with the death of John Proctor.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote All My Sons, After the Fall, and The Crucible. [GIVE]

[T12] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Arthur Miller
  - In a play by this author, a painter strangely claims that the government measures peoples' noses to find out whether they can move stones. [PWR]
  - In another play by this writer, a TV crew plans to film the crucifixion of an unseen prisoner in a Latin American country. [PWR]
  - He wrote a play in which a businessman gives a white pass to the psychiatrist Leduc, allowing him to escape the (*) Nazi regime in France. [PWR]
  - A character created by this man describes life as a "casting off," though her husband insists that "some people achieve something." This author of Resurrection Blues and Incident at Vichy depicted a character whose football star son dropped out of school after seeing him with a mistress in a Boston hotel room.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright who created Biff and Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the landmark original set designs of Jo Mielziner ("meel-ZEE-ner"), for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Brooklyn Bridge [prompt on bridge or A View from the Bridge (by Arthur Miller)]):
    This structure dominates the backdrop in Mielziner's design for Maxwell Anderson's play Winterset. This structure titles a play in which Alfieri narrates the downfall of the Sicilian-American longshoreman Eddie Carbone.
  Part 2 (ans: Loman family):
    Mielziner incorporated semi-transparent walls to allow for both interior and exterior scenes in his design for this family's house in Death of a Salesman.
  Part 3 (ans: Street Scene):
    Edward Hopper likely based his painting Early Sunday Morning on Mielziner's design for this 1929 play. Rose Maurrant appears in this play by Elmer Rice whose 15 vignettes are all set in front of a New York brownstone.

[B2] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: According to William Dunlap, the first play performed in the American Colonies was a 1752 production of this play in Williamsburg. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Merchant of Venice):
    Name this Shakespeare play in which Shylock demands 'a pound of flesh' from Antonio, the titular businessman.
  Part 2 (ans: Mercy Otis Warren):
    Twenty years later, this author published a trio of plays, including The Adulateur, featuring Rapatio, a civil servant modelled on Thomas Hutchinson. This female author published an early history of the American Revolution which humorously offended John Adams.
  Part 3 (ans: Massachusetts [accept MA or Mass.] (The latter play is Arthur Miller's The Crucible.)):
    Warren's plays were originally serialised in a newspaper from this state. In a play set in what is now this state, a man is hanged after declaring "I have given you my soul! Leave me my name."

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A play by this author begins with an excerpt of a real-life chat log between an 18-year-old boy and a former mayor of Spokane, Washington, using the handle "theright-biguy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stephen Karam ("CARE-um")):
    Name this American playwright who depicted three teenagers' plan to expose their predatory teacher in Speech and Debate. This author won a Tony Award for Best Play in 2016 for The Humans.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible (by Arthur Miller)):
    In Speech and Debate, the precocious Diwata performs a one-woman musical centered on a maid from this play. That character gives a pregnant woman a "poppet" stuck with a needle in this play.
  Part 3 (ans: Anton Chekhov):
    In 2016, Karam produced a semi-translated vernacular adaptation of a play by this author. Christopher Durang's play Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike riffs on Uncle Vanya and other plays by this Russian author.

[B4] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play titled for one of these events, Leon Trotsky and his wife argue whether a tool is an ice pick or a mountain climber's axe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: deaths [accept word forms such as dying; accept Variations on the Death of Trotsky or Death of a Salesman] (Death of a Salesman is by Arthur Miller.)):
    Name this sort of event, whose "variations" title that play. In another play titled for one of these events, Biff resents his father after walking in on his extramarital affair.
  Part 2 (ans: David [accept David Ives or David Mamet] (The play is Glengarry Glen Ross.)):
    Variations on the Death of Trotsky is a play by an author with this first name. A play by a different playwright with this first name describes a real estate sales competition between Ricky Roma, Shelley Levene, and others.
  Part 3 (ans: Philadelphia [or Philly; accept The Philadelphia]):
    In another David Ives play, a man becomes trapped in an anomalous pocket of reality named for this city. In that play, a sign of being trapped in the anomaly is receiving this city's signature cheese steak.

[B5] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character suggests that oranges are painted orange because they grow green on the tree. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eddie Carbone [prompt on Carbone]):
    Name this character who calls immigration services after learning that a young Italian jazz singer plans to marry his niece, Catherine. Marco holds a chair over this character's head after this character hits Rodolpho.
  Part 2 (ans: Willy Loman [prompt on Loman]):
    This character from a different play exclaims, "You can't eat the orange and throw the peel away - a man is not a piece of fruit!" when his boss, Howard Wagner, denies him a desk job.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    This author created both the orange-loving Eddie Carbone and longsuffering Willy Loman in his plays A View From the Bridge and Death of a Salesman.

[B6] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: One incident revolving around this person is fictionalized in the play Finishing the Picture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marilyn Monroe):
    Name this real-life person. In one play, Quentin reflects on the suicide of Maggie, who is a thinly veiled stand-in for this person.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    This playwright fictionalized his relationship with Marilyn Monroe in the play After the Fall.
  Part 3 (ans: The Crucible):
    Monroe stood by Miller when he was interrogated by the House Un-American Activities Committee, an event he later used as inspiration for this play about the Salem witch trials.

[B7] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these objects reminds Victor and Walter Franz of their dead father in the play The Price. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chair [prompt on furniture]):
    Name these objects. Quentin's mind is the setting of a play where the only physical objects onstage at the beginning are a concentration camp tower and one of these objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller]):
    The Price and After the Fall are plays by this American author of Death of a Salesman.
  Part 3 (ans:  A View from the Bridge ):
    The first act of this other play by Miller ends as Marco, an illegal immigrant from Italy, holds a chair over Eddie Carbone's head. This play ends after Marco stabs Eddie in a knife fight.

[B8] 2023 British Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: Your bonuses are on prolific theatre director Ivo Van Hove, known for reviving and restaging classic plays. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    Van Hove's Broadway debut was staging this playwright's play A View From The Bridge. The following year, Van Hove also directed this author's play The Crucible.
  Part 2 (ans: The Little Foxes):
    Before that debut, Van Hove staged this play by Lillian Hellman for the New York Theatre Workshop. This play's title is a quote from the Song of Solomon, and it tells the story of Regina Hubbard Giddens, a woman who goes to great lengths for her share of the family inheritance.
  Part 3 (ans: Angels in America):
    Earlier in his career when working in Amsterdam, Van Hove staged this play, subtitled A Gay Fantasia On National Themes by Tony Kushner. A more recent West End staging of this play cast Andrew Garfield and Russell Tovey.

[B9] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Lorenzo Savoini used a long steel bench as the only piece of furniture in his set design for this playwright's Incident at Vichy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Miller [Arthur Asher Miller]):
    Name this American playwright who called for artificial large trees to create a gloomy atmosphere for the play The Crucible.
  Part 2 (ans: After the Fall):
    This Miller play's minimalist set design consists of short stairs on either side of a single chair in front of the stone tower of a German concentration camp.
  Part 3 (ans: A View from the Bridge):
    Belgian director Ivo van Hove stripped away all props in his minimalist production of this play. Alfieri narrates this Miller play set in Red Hook, in which the longshoreman Eddie is killed by his own knife after reporting Marco and Rodolpho to immigration services.

[B10] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the backstory to a play by this author, food writers Gabe and Karen set up their friends Tom and Beth on a date, leading Tom and Beth to marry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Donald Margulies):
    Name this contemporary playwright and Yale professor who wrote Dinner with Friends, Collected Stories, and Sight Unseen.
  Part 2 (ans: Iraq War):
    In Margulies's play Time Stands Still, Sarah is a photojournalist who is injured in this war. Schemes to provide trucks and body armor to troops in this war are plot points in Jonathan Franzen's novel Freedom.
  Part 3 (ans: Loman [accept The Loman Family Picnic or Biff Loman; the Arthur Miller play is The Death of a Salesman]):
    A Margulies play in which Doris turns her wedding dress into a Halloween costume is titled for the "Family Picnic" of a family with this surname; the play pays homage to an Arthur Miller drama in which the former high school football star Biff has this surname.

[B11] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: Ann Deever possesses a letter in which her ex-lover Larry admits that he used one of these things to kill himself after learning of his father's treachery. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: airplanes [accept more specific types of airplanes like fighter plane or a Curtiss P-40 Warhawk]):
    Identify these things. Joe Keller tries to blame his business partner for manufacturing faulty parts for these things during World War II in the play All My Sons.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    All My Sons is a play by this author of The Crucible.
  Part 3 (ans: a tree [or an apple tree or a willow tree]):
    All My Sons opens with the destruction of one of these things, which had been honoring the memory of Larry after he went missing. Desdemona sings "Her salt tears fell from her, and softened the stones" in a song titled for one of these things in Othello.

[B12] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This person is "Clad in the beauty of a thousand stars" in a speech which asks her to "make me immortal with a kiss." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helen of Troy [or Helen of Sparta or Helen of Greece]):
    Name this person who is called "the face that launch'd a thousand ships" in Christopher Marlowe's play Doctor Faustus.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn (bane)):
    Paris's abandonment of his lover for Helen of Troy is depicted in Ovid's Heroides, which was paraphrased by this author in Oenone (ee-NOH-nee) to Paris. Angellica Bianca nearly kills Willmore in this author's play The Rover.
  Part 3 (ans: Marilyn Monroe [or Norma Jeane Baker; accept Norma Jeane Baker of Troy] (the second play is Arthur Miller's After the Fall)):
    A New York screenwriter juxtaposes Helen with this person in an Anne Carson play titled for this person of Troy. This person is fictionalized as the protagonist's suicidal wife in a play whose set consists of a chair in front of a concentration camp tower.

[B13] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: When this character is told to sign a document to confess his crimes, this character shouts, "I have given you my soul, leave me my name!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Proctor [accept either]):
    Name this character who, after being accused of keeping a "black allegiance," says that "God is dead" and "we will burn, we will burn together!"
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller]):
    John Proctor dies at the end of The Crucible, a play by this author of Death of a Salesman.
  Part 3 (ans: Loman):
    Miller's play Death of a Salesman revolves around this family whose patriarch Willy commits suicide so his family can get the insurance money for his death.

[B14] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author and her husband satirized Freudian psychoanalysis in their play Suppressed Desires. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Glaspell [or Susan Keating Glaspell]):
    Name this "Davenport Group" author who explored the aftermath of Mrs. Wright murdering her husband in her one-act play Trifles.
  Part 2 (ans: Massachusetts (The play is Arthur Miller's The Crucible.)):
    Susan Glaspell and her husband George Cram Cook founded a company of "players" named for a city in this state, which used innovative sets designed by Cleon Throckmorton and Bobby Jones. In a play set in this modern-day state, a character's last words are "more weight" as he is crushed by rocks.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene O'Neill [or Eugene Gladstone O'Neill]):
    Paul Robeson starred in the Provincetown Players' premiere of this author's play about an interracial marriage, All God's Chillun Got Wings. This playwright also wrote The Emperor Jones and Long Day's Journey Into Night.

[B15] 2019 Prison Bowl (2019) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Kate Keller believes that her MIA son is still alive, and only his girlfriend Ann Deever knows that he has killed himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: All My Sons):
    Name this play that ends with the suicide of Joe Keller, who had blamed his business partner for shipping of damaged aircraft cylinder heads that caused the deaths of 21 pilots.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    All My Sons was written by this playwright of The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.
  Part 3 (ans: stockings [accept socks]):
    In Death of a Salesman, Willy is angered when he sees his wife repairing these items, and says that she must throw them out. Willy gifts his mistress with a pair of these objects.

[B16] 2019 Delta Burke (2019) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this playwright's most notable works is an allegory for the Red Scare. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    Name this American playwright who wrote about Abigail Williams accusing people of witchcraft in Salem in The Crucible.
  Part 2 (ans: All My Sons):
    This Arthur Miller play focuses on Joe Keller, who ends up committing suicide after it is revealed that he shipped faulty airplane parts during World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: Biff Loman [prompt on "Loman"]):
    At the end of Miller's Death of a Salesman, this character asks his brother to join him out west after Willy's funeral, but his offer is declined. Earlier in the play, this character calls Willy a "phony little fake" after seeing Willy with The Woman.

[B17] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the work in which this character features, the tree which had been planted to mark Larry's death blows down. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joe Keller):
    Name this character, who blames his partner Steve Deever for shipping faulty cylinder heads which caused the deaths of twenty-one pilots.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    Joe Keller is a character in All My Sons, a play by this author of The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.
  Part 3 (ans: Jim Bayliss [or Dr. Bayliss prompt on "Bayliss"]):
    This character in All My Sons claims that once the star of one's honesty goes out, it never comes back. When this character, who lives next door to the Kellers with his wife Sue, was young, he did medical research but gave it up in order to earn money as a doctor.

[B18] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: For his 2012 revival of this play, Mike Nichols reused the original set designs of Joseph Mielziner. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Death of a Salesman):
    Identify this play, which is performed by Emad and Rana in an Oscar-winning film by Asghar Farhadi. In this play, Uncle Ben relates how "when I was seventeen I walked into the jungle, and when I was twenty-one I walked out... and by God I was rich".
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller]):
    Death of a Salesman was written by this playwright of All My Sons.
  Part 3 (ans: illegal immigration to the United States [or being an undocumented immigrant; or equivalents]):
    In Miller's play A View from the Bridge, Eddie Carbone rats out his wife Beatrice's cousins Marco and Rodolpho for this crime. Eddie dies in a scuffle with Marco for getting Marco imprisoned for this crime.

[B19] 2017 ACF Fall (2017) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of one scene in this play, Marco lifts a chair from the very bottom with one hand to show that he is stronger than Eddie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A View from the Bridge):
    Name this play, narrated by the lawyer Alfieri, in which the immigrants Marco and Rodolfo stay with the family of Eddie Carbone.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    A View from the Bridge was written by this Pulitzer-winning American playwright, who depicted the unhappy end of Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman.
  Part 3 (ans: Biff Loman):
    This character from Death of a Salesman is a former football star who feels pressured to become a businessman like his father Willy. He burns his sneakers after seeing Willy having an affair in Boston.

[B20] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character imprints the insignia of the University of Virginia on his sneakers, which he later throws into a furnace. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Biff Loman):
    Name this former football star. Near the end of the play in which he appears, his father kills himself so this character can use the life insurance money to start his own business.
  Part 2 (ans: Bernard):
    In a flashback, Willy threatens to whip this character for not giving Biff the
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    Willy, Biff, and Bernard appear in Death of a Salesman, a play by this man. His failed marriage to Marilyn Monroe inspired his play After the Fall.

[B21] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Marco performs this action after a failed attempt to do the same by Eddie Carbone. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lifting up a chair with one hand by the base of its leg (basically anything that implies picking up a chair in a difficult way)):
    Identify this action that occurs after Eddie hits Marco's brother Rodolpho rather harder than expected in a mock boxing match.
  Part 2 (ans: A View from the Bridge):
    The chair lifting scene occurs at the end of act I of this play about the conflict that arrises after Eddie Carbone takes in his wife Beatrice's cousins, Marco and Rodolpho.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    A View from the Bridge is by this author of Death of a Salesman.

[B22] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This event ends with a woman sobbing through the words "we're free" as flute music plays. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Willy Loman's funeral [or Willy Loman's funeral; or the funeral at the end of Death of a Salesman; or the last scene of Death of a Salesman; or "Requiem"]):
    Name this poorly-attended event that occurs at the end of a 1949 play. Only Happy remains optimistic during it, saying "I'm going to beat this racket!"
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller [or Arthur Asher Miller]):
    As the title would suggest, Willy Loman dies in this playwright's Death of a Salesman. He allegorized the McCarthy-era witch hunts in The Crucible.
  Part 3 (ans: Biff Loman [prompt on just "Loman"]):
    This son of Willy Loman and brother of Happy Loman sets much of the plot of Death of a Salesman in motion by returning home from his travels. He was a promising athlete until he caught his father having an affair.

[B23] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Joyce Carol Oates fictionalized this person in the novel Blonde, in which one of her husbands is referred to as "the Ex-athlete" and she is assassinated on orders from "R.F.". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marylin Monroe):
    Name this person who is portrayed as the neurotic Maggie in After the Fall, which was written by her last husband.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    After the Fall is by this American playwright who depicted the decline of Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman.
  Part 3 (ans: Bill Oliver's fountain pen):
    In Death of a Salesman, after Bill Oliver fails to remember Biff during their meeting, Biff steals this object.

[B24] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Its main character blasts his brains out at the conclusion, and secondary characters include the Bayliss family and the Deever family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: All My Sons):
    Name this play in which it is revealed that Joe Keller manufactures faulty airplane parts for American soldiers.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    This man wrote All My Sons. He was one of the husbands of Marilyn Monroe and wrote the screenplay for The Misfits, which starred her.
  Part 3 (ans: Frank Lubey [either answer is okay.]):
    This character was always one year ahead of the draft and thus managed to never fight in World War 2. He is always interested in constructing a horoscope for Larry.

[B25] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this play uses an apple tree struck by lightning as proof her son is still alive. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: All My Sons):
    Name this play, in which it turns out Joe Keller did not have pneumonia the day his factory manufactured faulty cylinder heads that led to the deaths of 21 pilots.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    All My Sons was written by this American playwright, who also wrote about the Salem witch trials in The Crucible.
  Part 3 (ans: Larry Keller):
    This son of Joe dies fighting in the war. A letter he sends just before dying reveals he suspected his father knew about the cylinder heads and purposely crashed his plane.
