=== STOCK CLUES: The Crucible ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 37 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: narrations in The Crucible [accept any answers describing Arthur Miller's notes that provide context in The Crucible; prompt on partial or more general answers; reject answers mentioning "stage directions"]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - One of these works introduces "a paradox in whose grip we still live," with "no prospect yet that we will discover its resolution." Another of these works, which describes the "concept of unity, in which positive and negative are attributes of the same force," remarks that none have laughed when "a tight-skinned, eager-eyed intellectual" says "We cannot look to superstition in this." One of these works describes a group with a "predilection for minding other people's business" and "a good supply of ne'er-do-wells [...], who dallied at the shovelboard in (*) Bridget Bishop's tavern".
  - Another of these works recounts how George Burroughs was imprisoned for debt by his rival James Bayley's brother-in-law, Thomas Putnam.
  - One of these parts of a larger work describes "a farmer in his middle thirties" troubled by the hypocrisy of his Puritan town named John Proctor.
  - For 10 points, describe these works that provide context in a play about the Salem Witch Trials by Arthur Miller. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Canadian Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: The Crucible
  - In this play, a character who says his wife's justice "would freeze beer" later claims that he has "no tongue" for judging others. [PWR]
  - In the final scene of this play, that character begs, "I have given you my soul; leave me my name". [PWR]
  - In this play, a character's failure to recite the Seventh Commandment alludes to his adulterous affair with another character whose wounded stomach is attributed to a needle stabbed through a (*) poppet sewn by Mary Warren.
  - In this play, Betty Parris falls into a catatonic state after her father catches her dancing in the forest with Abigail Williams and Tituba.
  - For 10 points, name this dramatization of the Salem Witch Trials, a play by Arthur Miller. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the witch trial in The Crucible [or the trial in The Crucible; or the trial of Martha Corey; accept the trial of John Proctor or the Salem witch trials]
  - During this event, a sobbing character is reminded of "what the angel Raphael said to the boy Tobias." A girl cries, "I cannot, I cannot," upon being asked to appear at this event by a man who claims that "God's icy wind will blow," foreshadowing the apparent blowing of a cold wind during this event. [PWR]
  - A group at this event begins to repeat another character's lines after their leader sees an invisible yellow bird in the rafters. [PWR]
  - Due to her new pregnancy, a woman is (*) reprieved from this event, despite being found with a "poppet" stuck with a needle. [PWR]
  - The protagonist insists that "a man will not cast away his good name" after revealing his adultery during this event in an attempt to discredit Abigail Williams.
  - For 10 points, identify this event that results in John Proctor's conviction in an allegorical Arthur Miller play. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ivo van Hove's production of The Crucible [or the 2016 Broadway revival of The Crucible" or "Crucible revival" alone]
  - [NOTE TO READ TO PLAYERS: Descriptions are acceptable, but this tossup has a very specific answerline and you do need to uniquely identify what is going on to get points] 1. [PWR]
  - This play's second act begins with a wolf walking across the stage.
  - Two brief, early scenes in this play show a woman sleeping lifelessly in a bed and then floating through the air in a white gown. [PWR]
  - This play's first scene shows a group of children chanting "The Dutiful Child's Promise" in unison.
  - It includes a continuous, minimalist score composed by (*) Philip Glass. [PWR]
  - This play's creator claimed that part of its inspiration came from watching Republican presidential debates.
  - This play's set is a warehouse-like classroom where the students face away from the audience and towards a giant chalkboard, which at one point is illuminated with words from the Ten Commandments.
  - For 10 points, name this play in which Saoirse Ronan and Sophie Okonedo played Abigail Williams and Elizabeth Proctor. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 SUN (2017) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: The Crucible <Peter>
  - After describing some Indian smashing in the face of her parents, a character in this play threatens another with the line "I can make you wish you had never seen the sun go down!" One man in this work forgets "Thou shalt not commit adultery" when asked to recite the Ten Commandments. [PWR]
  - Some young girls, including Betty (*) Parris and a Barbadian slave named Tituba, engage in rituals in the woods in this play.
  - After a group of girls in this play state that John Proctor harbors the devil, he declares "God is Dead." For 10 points, name this Arthur Miller play about the 1692 Salem Witch Trials. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Crucible
  - In this play, a man's sudden appearance in a doorway "as though from the air" interrupts an argument in which another man exclaims "The promise that a stallion gives a mare I gave that girl!" after grabbing his rifle.
  - In this play's second act, a man observes "we are only what we always were, but naked now.
  - Aye, naked!
  - And the wind, God's icy wind, will blow!" as the curtain falls on a girl sobbing "I cannot, I cannot," over and over.
  - In this play, a man is berated for suggesting other people "think to go like saints," after which he says, "I speak my own sins; I cannot judge another," then angrily cries out, "I have no tongue for it." That man in this play is hanged after insisting, "I have given you my soul; leave me my name!" The first act of this play ends with the gleeful cries of a fever-stricken Betty Parris, who rises from bed and joins Abigail in shouting accusations such as "I saw Goody Hawkins with the Devil!" For 10 points, name this play about John Proctor set during the Salem Witch Trials and written by Arthur Miller. [GIVE]

[T7] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Crucible
  - One character in this play has had seven children who all died within a day of their birth, leading her to task her only living child, Ruth, to investigate the cause of her misfortunes.
  - Another character in this play is pregnant and thus is able to obtain a stay of execution until she has given birth.
  - In this play, one character who wants his land to pass to his own sons chooses to die under the weight of many stones rather than confess to a crime.
  - At its opening, Mr.
  - Parris believes that the reason that his daughter Betty is in a catatonic state has something to do with her cavorting in the forest with Tituba.
  - For 10 points, name this play in which the accusations of Abigail Williams lead to the death of John Proctor, a work of Arthur Miller. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: According to William Dunlap, the first play performed in the American Colonies was a 1752 production of this play in Williamsburg. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Merchant of Venice):
    Name this Shakespeare play in which Shylock demands 'a pound of flesh' from Antonio, the titular businessman.
  Part 2 (ans: Mercy Otis Warren):
    Twenty years later, this author published a trio of plays, including The Adulateur, featuring Rapatio, a civil servant modelled on Thomas Hutchinson. This female author published an early history of the American Revolution which humorously offended John Adams.
  Part 3 (ans: Massachusetts [accept MA or Mass.] (The latter play is Arthur Miller's The Crucible.)):
    Warren's plays were originally serialised in a newspaper from this state. In a play set in what is now this state, a man is hanged after declaring "I have given you my soul! Leave me my name."

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A play by this author begins with an excerpt of a real-life chat log between an 18-year-old boy and a former mayor of Spokane, Washington, using the handle "theright-biguy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stephen Karam ("CARE-um")):
    Name this American playwright who depicted three teenagers' plan to expose their predatory teacher in Speech and Debate. This author won a Tony Award for Best Play in 2016 for The Humans.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible (by Arthur Miller)):
    In Speech and Debate, the precocious Diwata performs a one-woman musical centered on a maid from this play. That character gives a pregnant woman a "poppet" stuck with a needle in this play.
  Part 3 (ans: Anton Chekhov):
    In 2016, Karam produced a semi-translated vernacular adaptation of a play by this author. Christopher Durang's play Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike riffs on Uncle Vanya and other plays by this Russian author.

[B3] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: One incident revolving around this person is fictionalized in the play Finishing the Picture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marilyn Monroe):
    Name this real-life person. In one play, Quentin reflects on the suicide of Maggie, who is a thinly veiled stand-in for this person.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Miller):
    This playwright fictionalized his relationship with Marilyn Monroe in the play After the Fall.
  Part 3 (ans: The Crucible):
    Monroe stood by Miller when he was interrogated by the House Un-American Activities Committee, an event he later used as inspiration for this play about the Salem witch trials.

[B4] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 2019 black comedy, a similarly-named descendant of this character loses her job as a tour guide and becomes reacquainted with her old flame Bob. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rebecca Nurse [or Becky Nurse; accept Becky Nurse of Salem]):
    Name this character who states "I have eleven children and I am twenty-six times a grandma, and I have seen them all through their silly seasons" in a play in which she recommends the counsel of Doctor Griggs to a child who is unable to eat.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible):
    John Proctor and Rebecca Nurse are executed by hanging at the end of this allegorical Arthur Miller play set during the Salem Witch Trials.
  Part 3 (ans: Eurydice (The second sentence refers to the musical Hadestown.)):
    2019's Becky Nurse of Salem is by Sarah Ruhl, whose first big hit was a 2003 play titled for this mythological character. In another 21st-century theatrical production, this character sings the second-act solo "Flowers."

[B5] 2022 Boilermaker Spring Novice (2022) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This play flopped on Broadway but became a hit in American high schools for accommodating large casts using small vignettes, only including recurring characters in the Prologue, Interlogue, and Epilogue. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Almost, Maine):
    Name this play. Ginette and Peter move apart and come back together in this play that explores various themes of love in short scenes set in the title fictional New England town.
  Part 2 (ans: being gay [or equivalents like homosexuality, accept being bisexual or LGBTQIA+; accept word forms]):
    Some schools banned Almost, Maine for two characters with this trait in the scene "They Fell." Some schools banned Tony Kushner's Angels in America for including characters with this sexuality living during the AIDS crisis.
  Part 3 (ans: The Crucible):
    This other play was censored in schools for perceived views on U.S. McCarthyism and general immorality. In this Aruthur Miller play, Giles Corey refuses to confess to his alleged crime and calls out for "more weight!"

[B6] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After a courthouse puts up a banner stating "READ YOUR BIBLE," a lawyer calls for another banner to be posted praising this book, to balance the original. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: On the Origin of Species):
    Name this book. In a play, Henry Drummond stacks this book on top of the Bible and puts it in his bag after his rival Matthew Harrison Brady dies.
  Part 2 (ans: Inherit the Wind):
    Drummond defends the teaching of evolution in this play by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee. It is a thinly veiled retelling of the Scopes Monkey Trial.
  Part 3 (ans: The Crucible):
    Much like Inherit the Wind, this play by Arthur Miller criticizes the spread of McCarthyism during the 1950s. John Proctor begs "leave me my name" before being hanged in this play about the Salem Witch Trials.

[B7] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, this character is taken in by Mama Yaya after her mother Abena dies, but she eventually dies after being associated with Iphigenie's rebellion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tituba [accept I, Tituba, Black Witch of Salem] (The latter clues are from The Crucible.)):
    Name this character who, in a play, admits to giving chicken blood to Betty during a ritual in the forest. She later claims that she saw Goody Good and Goody Osborne with the devil, influencing Abigail to confess the same.
  Part 2 (ans: Maryse Conde [or Maryse Boucolon]):
    The novel I, Tituba, Black Witch of Salem was written by this French-Guadeloupean author, who described the lives of the Bambara in her novel Segu.
  Part 3 (ans: Hester Prynne [or Hester Prynne]):
    In Conde's novel, this woman tells Tituba to only take revenge on those who wronged her. This character shares a cell with Tituba after being jailed for the same adultery she committed in The Scarlet Letter.

[B8] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author and her husband satirized Freudian psychoanalysis in their play Suppressed Desires. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Glaspell [or Susan Keating Glaspell]):
    Name this "Davenport Group" author who explored the aftermath of Mrs. Wright murdering her husband in her one-act play Trifles.
  Part 2 (ans: Massachusetts (The play is Arthur Miller's The Crucible.)):
    Susan Glaspell and her husband George Cram Cook founded a company of "players" named for a city in this state, which used innovative sets designed by Cleon Throckmorton and Bobby Jones. In a play set in this modern-day state, a character's last words are "more weight" as he is crushed by rocks.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene O'Neill [or Eugene Gladstone O'Neill]):
    Paul Robeson starred in the Provincetown Players' premiere of this author's play about an interracial marriage, All God's Chillun Got Wings. This playwright also wrote The Emperor Jones and Long Day's Journey Into Night.

[B9] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a play, drums intensify while this character's wife says "He have his goodness now. God forbid I take it from him." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Proctor [accept either name]):
    Name this man, whose confession to Danforth is nullified when he refuses to hand over a signed contract, and tears it up instead. That confession is interrupted by the entrance of Rebecca Nurse, whom this man refuses to indict.
  Part 2 (ans: his name [or "my name"]):
    Proctor justifies those actions to Danforth saying "Because it is [this thing]," as he wonders "How may I live without [this thing]?" He then continues his plea, saying "I have given you my soul, leave me [this thing]!"
  Part 3 (ans: The Crucible):
    John Proctor leaves to be hanged at the end of this Arthur Miller play about the Salem witch trials.

[B10] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: This character learns about traditional herbal medicine from Mama Yaya in a 1986 Maryse Conde novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tituba [accept I, Tituba]):
    Name this character who is accused of witchcraft after trying to help Abigail Williams and her friends make love potions.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible):
    Tituba, like John Proctor and Giles Corey, is a victim of the Salem Witch Trials in this Arthur Miller play.
  Part 3 (ans: Hester Prynne [accept either]):
    In Maryse Conde's I, Tituba, the title character shares a jail cell with this woman, who is pregnant with a daughter. This character is the protagonist of a novel which begins with a long preface called "The Custom-House."

[B11] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: John Kani and Winston Ntshona co-wrote a play set in one of these locations with a much more famous author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: prisons [accept synonyms, such as jails; prompt on islands or The Island with "What type of building can be found on that island?"] (the play is The Island, by Athol Fugard)):
    Name the setting of that play, in which two characters are forced to shovel each other's sand in a never-ending cycle. The play centers on their efforts to stage a version of Antigone in one of these places.
  Part 2 (ans: David Henry Hwang):
    After falling for a Chinese woman who turns out to be a male spy in disguise, Rene Gallimard is incarcerated for espionage in this Chinese-American author's play M. Butterfly.
  Part 3 (ans: The Crucible):
    John Proctor's last hours prior to his execution are spent in a prison in this play set during the Salem Witch Trials by Arthur Miller.

[B12] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the memoir Scoundrel Time, before the author undergoes this experience, she strategically sends "Mr. Wood" a letter reading "I cannot and will not cut my conscience to fit this year's fashions." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: testifying before HUAC [or being summoned to HUAC; or appearing before HUAC; accept anything involving talking to HUAC, or being blacklisted; accept the House Un-American Activities Committee in place of "HUAC"; prompt on answers that mention Congress or the House of Representatives]):
    Identify this personal experience that prompted Lillian Hellman to stage a revival of The Children's Hour in protest. Another author is often said to have forecast this future experience with the third act of one of his plays, which is dominated by Deputy Governor Danforth.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible):
    Arthur Miller was summoned before HUAC in 1956, three years after he wrote this aforementioned allegorical play about McCarthyism.
  Part 3 (ans: Tea and Sympathy):
    Like The Children's Hour, this play by Robert Anderson levies a coded critique of McCarthyism via ruinous accusations of homosexuality. In this stupid play, the effeminate Tom Lee is bullied by his classmates at prep school but is able to prove his manliness by kissing his coach's wife Laura.

[B13] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In response to the omitting of this commandment, Reverend Hale remarks, "Theology, sir, is a fortress; no crack in a fortress may be accounted small." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Thou shalt not commit adultery" [or the 6th Commandment or the 7th Commandment]):
    Name this commandment that John Proctor forgets when Hale asks him to repeat the Ten Commandments.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible):
    Proctor violated the commandment to not commit adultery when he had an affair with Abigail Williams in this Arthur Miller play set during the Salem witch trials.
  Part 3 (ans: Alec d'Urberville [prompt on "d'Urberville"]):
    In another story, Tess Durbeyfield encounters a painter who sends his Sundays making religious signs like "Thou shalt not commit adultery," as she returns to Marlott after being raped by this man in the Chase.

[B14] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An unnamed character in this play keeps buying pigs, but they all die when he brings them home. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Crucible):
    Name this 1953 play by Arthur Miller, in which Abigail Williams, an allegorical equivalent to Joseph McCarthy, seizes power by accusing the residents of Salem of witchcraf.
  Part 2 (ans: thou shalt not commit adultery [or the adultery commandment; accept commandment 6 or commandment 7]):
    In a memorable scene from the play, the farmer John Proctor is visited by an inquisition led by Reverend Hale, and is told to recite the Ten Commandments. He does so, but appropriately forgets this one.
  Part 3 (ans: my name!):
    At the end of Act IV, Proctor signs a confession admitting that he is a witch, but in response to an additional condition imposed by Judge Danforth, he passionately pleads "I have given you my soul; leave me" this thing.

[B15] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ann Putnam accuses this character of being able to speak to the dead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tituba):
    Name this slave from Barbados belonging to Reverend Parris, who supposedly teaches witchcraft to a group of Puritan girls in Salem.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible):
    The aforementioned events occur in this Arthur Miller play, seen as an allegory for McCarthyism.
  Part 3 (ans: John Hathorne [or John Hathorne]):
    In The Crucible, this cruel judge is delighted by John Proctor's psuedo-confession. Act III opens with this man questioning Martha Corey before her husband Giles intrudes on the proceedings.

[B16] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This character and her accomplice Mercy Lewis flee on a ship after stealing 31 pounds from Reverend Parris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abigail Williams [accept either underlined portion]):
    Identify this character, a 17-year-old girl who leads heretical rituals with the slave Tituba. Her brief affair with John Proctor leads her to later accuse Elizabeth Proctor of witchcraft.
  Part 2 (ans: The Crucible):
    Abigail Williams is one of the major antagonists of this Arthur Miller play, which depicts the Salem Witch Trials as an allegory for McCarthyism.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Putnam [accept either underlined portion]):
    Before being crushed to death for refusing to enter a plea, Giles Corey accuses this fellow Salemite of engineering the witchcraft accusations as part of a scheme to acquire more land.
