=== STOCK CLUES: David Alfaro Siqueiros ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: David Alfaro Siqueiros [or Jose de Jesus Alfaro Siqueiros; accept Polyforum Cultural Siqueiros; prompt on Alfaro] (Clues include America Tropical and Portrait of the Bourgeoisie.)
  - Masaccio frescoes inspired a series by this artist depicting an eagle atop a double cross crucifixion that the Getty restored in 2012.
  - This artist used pyroxylin automobile paint for a painting that shows a temple reading "Liberte, Egalite, Fraternite" on fire next to a machine overflowing with gold coins.
  - "Controlled accidents" were used to create paintings like Landscape with Steer and Collective Suicide at this artist's namesake Experimental Workshop, which informed Jackson Pollock's drip technique.
  - A red-robed crying baby comes out of the mouth of an identical, larger baby in this artist's Echo of a Scream.
  - This artist painted the forces of Science and Technology and the creation of a new race, which are viewed from a rotating platform inside his dodecagonal Polyforum.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican muralist of The March of Humanity. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: David Alfaro Siqueiros [2]
  - While in Los Angeles, this artist was commissioned to paint a work for the Plaza Art Center which shows a crucifixion scene where a gold-brown eagle is perched on top of the cross. [PWR]
  - That work, set in the jungle around a Mayan ruin, is Tropical America. [PWR]
  - In a self-portrait, this man wears a red toga and throws his fist forward, showing bits of smeared paint on his fingers. [PWR]
  - Tiny worshippers lift up their arms as a monster crashes through the roof in this man's The Devil in the Church. [PWR]
  - A metal falcon, generals and businessmen in gas masks, and a pile of gold appear around a machine feeding blood to an octopus in this artist's Portrait of the Bourgeoisie. [PWR]
  - In another work by this artist, a giant head (*) produces a baby from its mouth above a field of metal scraps. [PWR]
  - This painter's Stalinist politics led him on an unsuccessful mission to assassinate Trotsky in 1940.
  - For 10 points, name this muralist whose The March of Humanity decorates the inside of his namesake Polyforum in Mexico City. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fanny Rabel):
    Name this first female member of the "Mexican Muralists," who painted a pile of skull-like masks and a line of children playing in La ronda el en tiempo.
  Part 2 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros):
    Retrato de la Burguesia was a project spearheaded by Joseph Renau and this other artist. This artist painted a bare-breasted woman holding chains in La nueva democracia and designed his namesake Polyforum Cultural in Mexico City.
  Part 3 (ans: Tina Modotti 1.):
    This artist, though born in Italy, was known for her photographs of Mexican artworks, and was featured in many of Diego Rivera's murals. She served as an activist for Comintern, which led to her exile from Mexico in 1930.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist hosted an "Experimental Workshop" in Union Square that featured a young Jackson Pollock. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros ("see-KAY-rohss")):
    Name this artist whose "accidental painting" technique of letting paint freely mix on a horizontal canvas has influenced both Abstract Expressionists and fluid dynamicists. This artist's work is exhibited at an eight-sided building called the Polyforum Cultural Center.
  Part 2 (ans: murals [accept Mexican muralism]):
    Siqueiros, with Jose Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera, was one of "los tres grandes" of these artworks profiled in the Whitney's 2020 exhibit Vida Americana, which studied the influence of these artworks on American art.
  Part 3 (ans: Rufino Tamayo [or Rufino del Carmen Arellanes Tamayo]):
    Soak-stain pioneer Helen Frankenthaler studied with this Mexican surrealist and inventor of Mixografia printing. This artist eschewed the political leanings of the "big three," instead painting brightly-colored pre-Columbian forms and Mexicanidad imagery such as watermelons.

[B3] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Morris Louis drew on influences from a wide range of other artists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: abstract [or abstraction; accept Abstract Expressionism or Post-Painterly Abstraction]):
    Louis greatly admired Helen Frankenthaler, who was part of an art movement with this adjective in its name. Both Frankenthaler and Louis appeared in a Clement Greenberg exhibition titled for "Post-Painterly" and this term.
  Part 2 (ans: color [accept color field painting]):
    Frankenthaler and Louis led a branch of abstract expressionism named for "fields" of this property. Barnett Newman broke this property up with "zips" on otherwise monochrome works.
  Part 3 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros [or Jose de Jesus Alfaro Siqueiros; accept Polyforum Cultural Siqueiros]):
    Louis also studied under this artist, who depicted a black figure being torn apart by white ones in Cain in the United States. A "Polyforum" houses this painter's monumental March of Humanity.

[B4] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Working in this city, Jean Charlot was part of its San Ildefonso College. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mexico City [or Ciudad Mexico; do not accept or prompt on "Mexico"]):
    Name this city whose artists included Roberto Montenegro. Its National Preparatory High School project employed many artists who would later move to America for work.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Rivera):
    This member of the Mexican muralist movement created a mural of Tenochtitlan currently located in the Palacio Nacional. His other works include a censored Man at the Crossroads and Detroit Industry.
  Part 3 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros):
    This other Mexican painter showed a baby emerging from the mouth of another baby in Echo of a Scream. A hardcore communist, this painter of The March of Humanity participated in a failed assassination attempt of Leon Trotsky in 1940.

[B5] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted a portrait of Hart Crane after discussing modernism with him and Sergei Eisenstein. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros [or Jose de Jesus Alfaro Siqueiros]):
    Name this artist, who depicted a crowd cheering on as a giant monster is obliterated in The Future Triumph of Medical Science over Cancer, found at the Institute of Social Security Oncology Hospital.
  Part 2 (ans: The March of Humanity):
    The Polyforum Complex by David Siqueiros hosts this gigantic mural, which is divided into sections such as "Science and Technology" and "to the Revolution of the Future." The space race and many revolutions are depicted in this mural, whose theme is a search for a "better society."
  Part 3 (ans: Diego Rivera [or Diego Maria de la Concepcion Juan Nepomuceno Estanislao de la Rivera y Barrientos Acosta y Rodriguez]):
    In the early 1920s, Siqueiros toured Italy with this fellow Mexican muralist. This painter of Man, Controller of the Universe had a tempestuous marriage with Frida Kahlo.

[B6] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This mural shows a man with a blonde beard in a white robe pointing out into the sea, into which he is being carried by a raft of snakes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Epic of American Civilization):
    Name this massive mural found in the Baker Library at Dartmouth College. Appropriately, this mural depicts dead academics and books begetting more academics and books in its panel, "Gods of the Modern World."
  Part 2 (ans: United States of Mexico [or Estados Unidos de Mexico]):
    Jose Clemente Orozco, the artist of The Epic of American Civilization, was from this country. Diego Rivera, another muralist from this country, controversially showed Lenin in Man at the Crossroads.
  Part 3 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros):
    This Marxist, Mexican muralist painted the largest mural in the world, The March of Humanity, on an irregular octagon for a cultural forum at the World Trade Center Mexico City named for him.

[B7] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer these questions about the beautiful intersection of science and art.
  Part 1 (ans: Jacques-Louis David):
    A barometer and a water still are seen on the left side of this artist's Antoine-Laurent Lavoisier and his Wife. Other works by this artist include Oath of the Horatii and The Death of Socrates.
  Part 2 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros):
    This muralist painted Apology for the Future Victory of Science Over Cancer for Mexico's Polytechnic Institute. He is known for his March of Humanity and the sprawling Polyforum complex.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Wright of Derby):
    A lone candle is the only source of lighting while a group of onlookers observe the title avian in this painter's An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump.
