=== STOCK CLUES: Echo of a Scream ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The central figures in this work are surrounded by broken metallic pieces and smokestacks are present in the right background of this work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Echo of a Scream):
    Name this mural that features a baby in a red toga emerging from another baby's mouth.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico (accept United Mexican States)):
    Echo of a Scream is a work by David Alfaro Siqueiros, an artist from this country. Other muralists from this country include the husband of Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera.
  Part 3 (ans: American (accept American Gothic; accept Epic of American Civilization)):
    Muralist Jose Orozco painted snakes surrounding the title figure in Departure of Quetzalcoatl as part of his Epic of this kind of civilization. This adjective was used in the most famous work of the artist of Parson Weems' Fable.

[B2] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One work located at this institution depicts several mortarboard-wearing fetus skeletons in glass jars which represent the birth of useless knowledge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dartmouth College [or Baker memorial library]):
    Name this institution that is home to Gods of the Modern World, also the home of the complementary Migration and Modern Migration of the Spirit. Another set of works here depicts ancient and modern human sacrifice.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose [Clemente] Orozco):
    The Epic of American Civilization series was made by this Mexican muralist. He also made a series of murals for the Mexican National Preparatory School and is neither David Alfaro Siqueiros nor Diego Rivera.
  Part 3 (ans: Echo of a Scream [or Echo of the Scream; accept Eco de un Grito though I don't know if it's ever called that]):
    This work by David Alfaro Siqueiros whose background is composed of piles of rubble and a lone tree shows a baby wearing a red toga emerge from the mouth of another giant baby head.
