=== STOCK CLUES: March of Humanity ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One section of this massive work depicts three men mourning a dead worker on a conveyor belt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The March of Humanity [or La Marcha de la Humanidad]):
    Identify this world's largest mural that has both indoor and outdoor panels. This work is found in and around a twelve-sided building called the Polyforum.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico):
    David Siqueiros, the artist of The March of Humanity, is from this Latin American country. Inside the Polyforum, there are paintings of artists from this country such as Jose Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera.
  Part 3 (ans: Dream of a Sunday Afternoon in Alameda Park [accept Sueno de una tarde dominical en la Alameda Central or Dream of a Sunday Afternoon in the Alameda Central):
    Rivera painted Jose Posada staring at La Malinche and walking next to La Calavera Catrina in this mural that features many Mexican historical figures.

[B2] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted a portrait of Hart Crane after discussing modernism with him and Sergei Eisenstein. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Alfaro Siqueiros [or Jose de Jesus Alfaro Siqueiros]):
    Name this artist, who depicted a crowd cheering on as a giant monster is obliterated in The Future Triumph of Medical Science over Cancer, found at the Institute of Social Security Oncology Hospital.
  Part 2 (ans: The March of Humanity):
    The Polyforum Complex by David Siqueiros hosts this gigantic mural, which is divided into sections such as "Science and Technology" and "to the Revolution of the Future." The space race and many revolutions are depicted in this mural, whose theme is a search for a "better society."
  Part 3 (ans: Diego Rivera [or Diego Maria de la Concepcion Juan Nepomuceno Estanislao de la Rivera y Barrientos Acosta y Rodriguez]):
    In the early 1920s, Siqueiros toured Italy with this fellow Mexican muralist. This painter of Man, Controller of the Universe had a tempestuous marriage with Frida Kahlo.
