=== STOCK CLUES: Salman Rushdie ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 55 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 32 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Salman Rushdie [accept Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie]
  - The title character of a novel by this author hallucinates a son appearing in the backseat of his Chevrolet Cruze and names him "Sancho." This author wrote about the agents Chekhov and Zulu in a story collection that also describes a man's descent into insanity after finding the title "Prophet's Hair." In a novel by this author, Sam DuChamp creates the character Ismail Smile, who adopts the title persona to woo Salma R.
  - A character in a novel by this author acts as a dog for a military unit, but guides them into the Sundarbans.
  - In that novel by this author, the protagonist is helped by Parvati-the-Witch before the destruction of a slum and his subsequent capture by the government of the Widow, a representation of Indira Gandhi.
  - For 10 points, name this author who described Saleem Sinai in Midnight's Children. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Muhammad's recitation of the Satanic Verses [or Story of the Cranes before "cranes"; or equivalents describing Muhammed reciting something that Iblis told him; or Satan or Shaitan or the Devil in place of "Iblis"] [The "popularizer" in the first line is Salman Rushdie.]
  - Description acceptable.
  - The common term for this event comes from a biography by William Muir, though a popularizer claims to have taken the term from al-Tabari.
  - Early accounts likely glossed over this event due to the doctrine of ismat al-anbiya.
  - The question "Are you to have the males, and he the females?" replaced a statement about "gharaniq" during this event.
  - "Exalted cranes" were allegedly praised for their intercession in this event, in which Manat, Al-ʻUzza, and al-Lat were invoked.
  - This event titles a book whose reception was profiled in A Brief History of Blasphemy and which prompted Ruhollah Khomeini's fatwa on an Indian author.
  - For 10 points, Muhammed allegedly uttered blasphemous statements in what event that names a novel by Salman Rushdie? [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Salman Rushdie
  - An essay by this author that discusses the "bogy of Authenticity" to argue for a mixed literary tradition posits that "commonwealth literature does not exist." This author examined George Orwell's desire to keep politics out of writing in his essay "Outside the Whale." This author described his country as a "collective fiction" and "new myth" in a novel about a character who flees into the jungle after forgetting his identity during an (*) air raid, due to getting hit in the head with a silver spittoon. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, the owner of the Braganza pickle factory, Mary Pereira, swaps a baby with knobby knees with a large-nosed, telepathically gifted character born on the eve of the partition of India.
  - A stabbing attack in New York in October 2022 injured, for 10 points, what author of Midnight's Children? [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the fatwa against Salman Rushdie [prompt on fatwa by asking 'calling for whose death?'; prompt on any description equivalent to (Ayatollah Khomeini ordering) the death of Salman Rushdie]
  - A New York Times op-ed by Jimmy Carter denounced this order, but suggested that it was important to understand the anger behind it. [PWR]
  - Ettore Capriolo and William Nygaard were among the people injured as a result of this order. [PWR]
  - The person involved in this order told Bono that "real devils don't wear horns" after appearing on stage at a U2 concert. [PWR]
  - That person responded to this order with an apologetic essay titled "In (*) Good Faith", which they subsequently described as the "biggest mistake of my life". [PWR]
  - A follow-up order issued two years after this order led to the death of Japanese translator Hitoshi Igarashi.
  - This order forced an author to live under the pseudonym Joseph Anton after it was issued in 1989 by Ayatollah Khomeini.
  - For 10 points, name this order which called for the death of an author for writing The Satanic Verses. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]
  - An essay by this author calls for "rowdyism" in place of the quietism advocated in George Orwell's essay on Henry Miller.
  - This author collected "Outside the Whale" in a book whose title essay observes that "sometimes we feel that we straddle two cultures; at other times that we fall between two stools" in its discussion of the "migrant theory." This author compared his subject to the "will-o'-the-wisp of modern critical theory: the authorless text" in a monograph on the film that inspired his writing career, The Wizard of Oz.
  - This author of Imaginary Homelands used the moniker "The Illusion" to refer to his fourth wife in one book.
  - That third-person memoir by this author narrates the disintegration of his marriage to his second wife, Marianne Wiggins, depicts the moment that he chose the first names of the authors Conrad and Chekhov as his pseudonym, and describes his marriage to Padma Lakshmi.
  - For 10 points, what author's memoir Joseph Anton describes the ten years he spent in hiding over a fatwa? [GIVE]

[T6] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmad Salman Rushdie]
  - This author wrote a short story, "At the Auction of the Ruby Slippers", about his beloved childhood movie The Wizard of Oz.
  - His first nonfiction book was about his trip to Nicaragua after being invited by the Sandinistas.
  - In August 1993, this writer made a surprise appearance during a U2 concert at Wembley Stadium.
  - This author of The Jaguar Smile wrote about his break-up with writer Marianne Wiggins and his use of the title pseudonym in the memoir Joseph Anton.
  - Cat Stevens controversially claimed he would "ring somebody who might do" damage to this man if he ever ran into him.
  - In 1991, two translators of a novel by this man were stabbed.
  - For 10 points, name this Indian author, the subject of a 1989 fatwa calling for his death issued by the Ayatollah Khomeini. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: (Sir Ahmed) Salman Rushdie
  - In a novel by this author, the leader of a coup in Lilliput-Blefuscu dresses up as Commander Akasz, a character created by the protagonist. [PWR]
  - That protagonist, who moves to New York after an incident in which he stands over his wife Eleanor with a knife before deciding not to kill her, is a professor-turned-dollmaker who becomes famous for his creation "Little Brain." Another of his novels includes a sequence about a woman who attempts to walk across the (*) Arabian Sea with her followers. [PWR]
  - That sequence is presented as the dream of a voiceover artist, like a controversial sequence about a prophet known as "the Messenger." In that novel, a hijacked plane blows up over the English Channel, but both Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta miraculously survive.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Fury and The Satanic Verses. [GIVE]

[T8] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: fatwa against The Satanic Verses or [Ahmed] Salman Rushdie [the player must say fatwa AND either Satanic Verses OR Rushdie; prompt on more general answers such as "(Khomeini's) fatwa"]
  - This statement provoked a mob to burn down a hotel, killing 35 people, after attendees at a conference failed to turn over Aziz Nesin in the so-called Sivas Massacre.
  - The country led by the man who made this statement severed ties with the UK on March 7, after which Collets and Dillons on Charing Cross Road were bombed on April 9, and British World War II hero Jackie Mann was kidnapped in Lebanon on May 13.
  - The historical impact of this statement, including an attack on William Nygaard and the 1991 death of Hitoshi Igarashi, was profiled in Richard Webster's A Brief History of Blasphemy.
  - The subject of this statement, who responded that "we must be conscious of the sensibilities of others" because the world has "many faiths," was forced into hiding with his wife Marianne Wiggins.
  - For 10 points, name this condemnation broadcast on radio on February 14, 1989, when Ruhollah Khomeini called for the deaths of the author, the editors, and the publishers of a certain novel. [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Salman Rushdie
  - 18. [PWR]
  - One of this author's characters transforms gold into smoke, water into fabric, and multiplies fishes as passengers board a pirate ship.
  - Another person created by this author saves himself from an emperor's elephant by claiming descent from Nina Argalia and "Lady Black Eyes." He created the writer of "assassination poems," a guy who served the Grandee of Jahilia, (*) Baal. [PWR]
  - A dream sequence described by this author features Ayesha leading a group of men into the Arabian Sea, where they drown.
  - Another of his characters murders Sisodia and Allie Cone.
  - This author of The Enchantress of Florence wrote about a man who dreams about Mahound after falling out of an exploding airplane with Saladin Chamcha.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Satanic Verses and Midnight's Children. [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie
  - In one novel by this author, the protagonist searches for his lost sister for 777 years, 7 months, 7 days after drinking a magic beverage. [PWR]
  - In that novel, this author created a character whom Virgil Jones guides to the mythical Calf Island, whose inhabitants are immortal. [PWR]
  - In another novel, this author created a protagonist who mistakes a phantasm called "Nobodaddy" for his father before dying at the hands of the Old Man of the River, coming back to life, and realizing that the (*) world is like a video game with levels and lives. [PWR]
  - In that novel, this author wrote of the Khalifas, the youngest of whom is the title character, who seeks out the title substance, guarded by The Aalim.
  - This author's first novel centers on Axona Indian Flapping Eagle, who searches for his sister Bird-Dog.
  - The author of Luka and the Fire of Life and Grimus, FTP, name this man who also wrote The Ground Beneath Her Feet and penned a novel about Saleem Sinai as well as one that inspired the Ayatollah to issue a fatwa.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. The target of this event noted that the 27 seconds it took were enough to read his favorite Shakespeare sonnet aloud in the 2024 memoir Knife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the attempted assassination of Salman Rushdie [accept equivalents; accept the stabbing of Salman Rushdie; prompt on answers like attempted assassination or stabbing by asking "of whom?"; reject answers that imply that Rushdie was assassinated]):
    Identify or describe this August 2022 event carried out by Hadi Matar, which occurred during a lecture on the Chautauqua circuit.
  Part 2 (ans: The Satanic Verses):
    Matar claimed to have only read "a couple pages" of this Rushdie book but agreed with the views of Ayatollah Khomeini, who issued a fatwa against Rushdie for its publication.
  Part 3 (ans: Haroun and the Sea of Stories):
    Rushdie represented Khomeini with this book's villainous Khattam-Shud, who aims to silence the talkative residents of Gup. This book is set on the moon Kahani, which is divided into Gup and the silent Chup.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character from this play says, "I am not wringing my hands. I'm drying my nails" and criticizes the use of the phrase "the bloat king" in Margaret Atwood's story "Gertrude Talks Back." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hamlet [or The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark]):
    Name this play, which inspired a story where the narrator refers to Shakespeare as Master Chackpaw. A jester's influence on this play's title Danish prince is imagined in the story "Yorick."
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    This author's story "Yorick" is included in the collection East, West. Haroun explores a "sea of stories" in a children's book by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: One Thousand and One Nights [or The Arabian Nights or The One Thousand and One Arabian Nights or The Arabian Nights' Entertainment or Alf Laylah wa-Laylah; accept "The Arabian Nights Plus One"] (The Rushdie novel is Two Years Eight Months and Twenty-Eight Nights.)):
    Rushdie heavily alludes to this work in Haroun and the Sea of Stories, including with a houseboat named in reference to it. In a 2015 novel featuring a princess who controls lightning, Rushdie set this work in New York City.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is one of the three novels that this author profiled in The Republic of Imagination: America in Three Books. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Azar Nafisi):
    Name this Iranian author and professor who wrote about reading English-language literature with a book club of students in Reading Lolita in Tehran.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    In one section of her book Read Dangerously, Nafisi describes what it was like to be in Iran when Ayatollah Khomeini declared a fatwa on this Indian author for writing The Satanic Verses.
  Part 3 (ans: exile [accept That Other World: Nabokov and the Puzzle of Exile; accept The Pleasures of Exile]):
    Nafisi wrote a study of Nabokov titled That Other World and subtitled for the "Puzzle" of this concept. While in England, Barbadian author George Lamming wrote a collection of essays titled for "The Pleasures of" this concept.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: According to an essay, this author writes from a place where you can "keep up an attitude of the completest indifference" and be in "the final, unsurpassable stage of irresponsibility." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Miller [or Henry Valentine Miller]):
    Name this author whom George Orwell praised in his essay "Inside the Whale." This author's lover, Anais Nin, helped edit his autobiographical novel that faced obscenity trials in the US.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    This author argues that Orwell's whale does not exist in the essay "Outside the Whale." This author was issued a fatwa for writing The Satanic Verses.
  Part 3 (ans: Ada Limon):
    This Mexican-American poet wrote "we too are immense and calling out" in the poem "The Whale & the Waltz Inside of It," part of the collection Bright Dead Things. This current US Poet Laureate wrote The Carrying.

[B5] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the young filmmaker Rene has an affair with Vasilisa and uses the extended metaphor of "The Joker" to refer to Donald Trump. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    Name this author who also wrote Shame and The Satanic Verses.
  Part 2 (ans:  The Golden House ):
    In this 2017 Rushdie novel, Nero and his children leave Mumbai for New York and become the subject of Rene's film project. Nero's gender-questioning child D. dates Riya, who works at the Museum of Identity, in this novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Saleem Sinai [or Saleem]):
    Shehryar Fazli criticized The Golden House relative to Rushdie's novel about this character, but praised it for preserving this character's idea that "most of what matters" happens in a person's absence. This character's large nose grants him telepathy.

[B6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Saleem Sinai uses telepathy to gather together those born at the instant that India became independent in this author's novel Midnight's Children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    Name this Indian-born author, who had a fatwa issued against him for writing The Satanic Verses.
  Part 2 (ans: pickle factory [or preserves factory; or chutney factory; or jam factory; accept Paradise Pickles & Preserves; accept Braganza Pickles; prompt on factory by asking "What does the factory make?"]):
    In the final chapter of Midnight's Children, Saleem first meets his wife-to-be at one of these businesses, which is run by Saleem's former nanny, Mary. In a novel by a different author, the Dalit Velutha ("vay-LOO-tah") works for one of these businesses owned by Mammachi ("MAH-mah-chee").
  Part 3 (ans: The God of Small Things (by Arundhati Roy)):
    Pickle factory employee Velutha is beaten to death by police after being falsely accused of complicity in the drowning of Sophie Mol in this novel.

[B7] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about terrorist attacks in works by ethnically Indian authors from Canada.
  Part 1 (ans: Jasmine):
    The radical terrorist Sukhwinder kills the protagonist's husband Prakash in this novel by Bharati Mukherjee.
  Part 2 (ans: plane crash [accept answers relating to a plane being shot down; prompt on bombing] (The other novel is The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie.)):
    Bharati Mukherjee also wrote the story "The Management of Grief," in which Shaila's family dies in one of these events caused by Sikh terrorists. At the beginning of a novel by a different author, two characters turn into an angel and demon during one of these events.
  Part 3 (ans: Indira Gandhi [or Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi; prompt on Gandhi or Nehru]):
    In the novel A Fine Balance by Rohinton Mistry, Maneck Kolah returns to India and sees the widespread killing of Sikhs after two Sikh guards assassinated this Indian Prime Minister.

[B8] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Right before uttering this phrase, which is accompanied by "one easy wink of the world's blind eye," one character observes a woman's "glittering helmet of hair" "shine like a gold coin in the gutter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Fucking rejoice." [accept censored answers]):
    Give this two-word phrase uttered at the end of a short story by an IRA militant who pretends to be the boilerman Mr. Duggan.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary Mary Mantel]):
    The words "Fucking rejoice" end this author's controversial story "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher."
  Part 3 (ans: The Satanic Verses (by Salman Rushdie)):
    In this novel, Hal Valance refers to Margaret Thatcher as "Mrs. Torture." At the beginning of this novel, Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta are miraculously saved after falling out of a hijacked airplane.

[B9] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An AI Hoopoe named 'Butt' brings characters to a location of this name in one work, in which Khattam-Shud attempts to poison it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sea of Stories [or Ocean of Stories or Ocean of the Streams of Stories or Ocean of Rivers of Stories; accept Haroun and the Sea of Stories or Kathasaritsagara]):
    Name this location. A place of this name titles a compilation of tales in the Katha format compiled by Somadeva.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie (The unnamed novel is Midnight's Children.)):
    Somadeva's Kathasaritsagara provides the name for the title location of this author's Haroun and the Sea of Stories. Another novel by this author follows a group of children born at the exact moment of India's independence.
  Part 3 (ans: Kashmir [accept Jammu and Kashmir] (The unnamed novel is Shalimar the Clown.)):
    A variant spelling of this region is tied to "a sea of stories" in a poem by an author exiled from here, Agha Shahid Ali. In another Rushdie novel, this region is the home of a chauffeur-turned-assassin nicknamed "the clown."

[B10] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the magic of a goddess allows Pampa Kampana to conjure up the city of Bisnaga. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    Name this author of Victory City. In another novel by this author, Parvati the Witch lusts after a character with a constantly dripping nose.
  Part 2 (ans: Midnight's Children):
    In this Rushdie novel, Saleem Sinai feels he will die the day he marries his lover Padma. This novel is titled for a group born at the moment of India's independence.
  Part 3 (ans: golden [accept The Golden Gate or The Golden House]):
    In a 2017 Rushdie novel, the filmmaker Nero moves into the title house described by this adjective. Another novel titled for this adjective includes the relationship between the yuppies John Brown and Liz Dorati.

[B11] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An essay from Imaginary Homelands labels this association's "school of literature" the "very oddest of beasts" because its "supposed members deny vehemently that they belong to it." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Commonwealth of Nations [or British Commonwealth]):
    Name this association of countries whose literature "does not exist" according to that essay. Until 2014, most winners of the Man Booker Prize were from countries in this body, which includes many former British colonies.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie] (The novel is Midnight's Children.)):
    This author of the essay "'Commonwealth Literature Does Not Exist" and the collection Imaginary Homelands won two "Best of the Booker" awards for a magical realist novel. He also wrote the memoir Joseph Anton.
  Part 3 (ans: translation [or word forms such as translating; accept politics of translation] (Spivak has translated many stories by Devi, as well as Derrida's Of Grammatology.)):
    In Imaginary Homelands, Rushdie declares "we are" men who have undergone this process. Gayatri Spivak contrasted her work involving Mahasweta Devi ("muh-HAH-shway-tuh DAY-vee") and Jacques Derrida in an essay on the "politics of" this process.

[B12] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The 80-year-old widow Ma reflects on living through this event as a teenager in the 2018 novel Tomb of Sand, which won the 2022 International Booker Prize. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: partition of India [accept Indian independence or Pakistani independence or equivalents] (Tomb of Sand is by Geetanjali Shree.)):
    Name this event that provides the backdrop for Bapsi Sidhwa's novel Ice Candy Man. In another novel, the Catholic nurse Mary Pereira swaps rich and poor newborns during this historical event.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    Mary Pereira swaps the two children Saleem Sinai and Shiva, who are born at the exact moment of India's partition, in this author's novel Midnight's Children.
  Part 3 (ans: Saadat Hasan Manto ("SAH-dut HUH-sun MUHN-toh")):
    During the lead-up to India's partition, a Sikh inmate in a Lahore asylum obsesses over whether his hometown is in India or Pakistan in this Urdu-language author's satirical short story "Toba Tek Singh."

[B13] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's "Christmas in India" is used to exemplify the Eurocentric "representative" stage of writing native literature for an English audience in the post-colonial study "The Empire Writes Back." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    Name this British poet whose alignment with colonizers is reflected in the poem "The White Man's Burden."
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    This author cited the idea of post-colonial authors "writing back" against British colonialism in "The Empire Writes Back with a Vengeance." This author created the fictional Pakistani town of Q in the novel Shame.
  Part 3 (ans: In a Free State (by V.S. Naipaul)):
    As an example of using untranslated words in English literature to "write back," the study examines this short story collection's use of the word "hubshi" to describe a Black maid whom Santosh marries to gain citizenship after he immigrates to Washington, D.C. in the story "One Out of Many."

[B14] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the role of Mount Qaf ("kahf") in literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Conference of the Birds [or Speech of the Birds; or Mantiq-ut-Tayr; or Maqamat-ut-Tuyur]):
    The title group journeys to Mount Qaf to find the Simurgh ("see-MOORG") in this 12th-century poem by Attar of Nishapur.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    This author used Mount Qaf as inspiration for "Calf Mountain" in Grimus, his first novel. This author also created Saleem Sinai, who is born at the moment of India's independence.
  Part 3 (ans: King Solomon's ring [or the Seal of Solomon; or Khatam Sulayman; accept signet instead of ring]):
    In the Arabian Nights,Mount Qaf figures prominently in the tale of Buluqiya, who applies magic juice to his feet to cross the Seven Seas to find this mythical object. In "The Fisherman and the Jinni," from Arabian Nights,the title jinn was originally trapped in the bottle by this object.

[B15] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character living in this city begins an affair with Eleanor after his performance in "The Jungle Book" earns him a role in Mathew Pyke's acting troupe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London [the second unnamed novel is Monica Ali's Brick Lane]):
    Name this city which is the setting of a novel where Nazneen begins an affair with Karim after attending Bengal Tigers meetings; at its end, she refuses to leave this city with her older husband Chanu.
  Part 2 (ans: screenplay [or film script; accept film or movie]):
    Hanif Kureishi, who fictionalized London in The Buddha of Suburbia, has also worked extensively with this medium. The playwright Martin McDonagh's works in this genre include the works In Bruges and Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.
  Part 3 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie] (the novel is Midnight's Children)):
    London was also the site of an attempted assassination of this author, who frequently employs magical realism in works like Shame. The protagonist of another of his novels is revealed to be the son of William Methwold after originally being switched at birth by Mary Pereira.

[B16] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Karim lands a role in a soap opera and his father becomes engaged to the social climber Eva in this city, the setting of the semi-autobiographical novel The Buddha of Suburbia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London):
    Name this city where Tracey meets a character who later works as an assistant for the pop diva Aimee. After the narrator of that novel returns to this city from Africa, Tracey releases a provocative childhood video of the two former friends.
  Part 2 (ans: Zadie Smith):
    This British author of Swing Time wrote another novel set in London detailing the lives of World War II veterans Samad Iqbal and Archie Jones.
  Part 3 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    In Zadie Smith's White Teeth, Samad's son Millat participates in protests against this British-Indian author who was targeted by a fatwa for his novel The Satanic Verses.

[B17] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel is criticized by his West Indian coworker for his decision to grow a beard and moves back home after his lover Erica dies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Reluctant Fundamentalist):
    Name this novel in which the Princeton graduate and former consultant Changez may be assassinated by a CIA agent after giving a viral anti-American speech.
  Part 2 (ans: Islamic Republic of Pakistan):
    The author of The Reluctant Fundamentalist, Mohsin Hamid, is from this country. In a novel by another author, Iskander Harappa and General Raza Hyder are politicians who rule an allegorical version of this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    This author's novel Shame is a political satire set in Pakistan. In another novel by this author, Saleem Sinai and other children born on India's independence day have supernatural powers.

[B18] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel concerns a girl who was adopted by a fundamentalist Christian who wanted to train a servant of God. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit):
    Identify this novel by Jeanette Winterson, the main character of which befriends the fish seller Melanie. The friendship develops into a love affair and, when confronted about it by her pastor, the narrator refuses to repent and runs off to the house of Miss Jewsbury.
  Part 2 (ans: Irish Murdoch):
    Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit won the Whitbread prize for first novel in 1985. In 1974 this author won the Whitbread novel prize for The Sacred and Profane Love Machine. She is probably better known for Under the Net, a novel about Jake Donoghue.
  Part 3 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    This author of The Satanic Verses won the Whitbread prize for best novel in 1995 for The Moor's Last Sigh.

[B19] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Its protagonist was exchanged with Shiva of the Knees at birth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Midnight's Children):
    Name this novel in which the term "chutnification" ["CHUT-nee-fi-cation"] was coined to describe the blending of fiction and history. Its protagonist, who falls in love with his sister, "the Brass Monkey," is Saleem Sinai.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Ahmad Salman Rushdie):
    Midnight's Children is a novel by this Indian author who was targeted with a fatwa for his The Satanic Verses.
  Part 3 (ans: Indira Gandhi [prompt on "Gandhi"]):
    Rushdie was sued by this figure over a sentence in Midnight's Children in which her son accuses her of contributing to his father's death. This figure appears as "The Widow" in the novel.

[B20] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, four landlords called the "Wild Boar," "Stork," "Buffalo," and "Raven" rule the protagonist's village. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The White Tiger):
    Name this novel in which Balram figures that the deaths of his family and his murder of Ashok was worth the trouble, since he was freed from the "rooster coop" of rickshaw pulling.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    For his novel The White Tiger, Aravind Adiga became the fourth Indian author to win the Man Booker Prize. This author of The Satanic Verses became the first when he won for Midnight's Children.
  Part 3 (ans: People's Republic of China [or Zhongguo] (The character is Ah Q.)):
    The White Tiger is framed as a series of letters from Balram to a leader of this country. A short story from this country is titled for a low-class character who calls defeats "spiritual victories" and hates the "imitation foreign devil."

[B21] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the One Thousand and One Nights and its influence on later literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ali Baba):
    Antoine Galland added the story of this woodcutter who uses the phrase "Open sesame" to enter a den of thieves.
  Part 2 (ans: Arabian Nights and Days [or Layali alf layla; accept Nights of a Thousand Nights]):
    This Naguib Mahfouz novel is a continuation of the One Thousand and One Nights, including such stories as "The Invisibility Cap."
  Part 3 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    The One Thousand and One Nights also inspired Two Years Eight Months and Twenty-Eight Nights, the most recent novel by this author, who also wrote the memoir Joseph Anton.

[B22] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions on autobiographies, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Adams (The Education of Henry Adams is the book)):
    This man's autobiography describes his visit to the Paris EXPO of 1900 and his bewilderment at the advances of technology in a chapter titled "The Dynamo and the Virgin." He also lamented how education often results accumulated ignorance in "the form of inert facts."
  Part 2 (ans: Akira Kurosawa (accept names in either order)):
    Something Like An Autobiography is a book by this film director. One chapter relates the struggle of his crew to get their equipment to the summit of Mt. Fuji, only for the light to fail, requiring them to take it all back down again and come back the next day.
  Part 3 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    This author chronicled the time he spent in hiding after the publication of his novel Satanic Verses in his autobiography Joseph Anton: A Memoir.

[B23] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Amitabh Bachchan was a major inspiration for this character, who engages in a tumultuous relationship with the mountaineer Allie Cone. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gibreel Farishta [or Gibreel Farishta]):
    Identify this character, an actor who adopts the personality of an archangel after miraculously surviving a plane crash alongside his counterpart Saladin Chamcha.
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha are the protagonists of The Satanic Verses, a novel by this Indian-British author of Midnight's Children.
  Part 3 (ans: Haroun Khalifa [or Haroun and the Sea of Stories; prompt on "Khalifa"]):
    Another Rushdie novel is titled for this character, who meets Butt the Hoopoe and Iff the Water Genie and helps the Guppee army defeat Khattam-Shud. This character's younger brother stars in Rushdie's later novel Luka and the Fire of Life.

[B24] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author used Attar's The Conference of the Birds as a structural inspiration for his first novel, Grimus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    Name this British-Indian author of Midnight's Children, who had a fatwa issued against him by Ayatollah Khomeini over the heretical content of his The Satanic Verses.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Anton: A Memoir):
    Rushdie described his life during the fatwa, including his marriage to Padma Lakshmi, in this memoir, which was released in 2012.
  Part 3 (ans: John Berger):
    This English author of the novel G. condemned Rushdie for not discontinuing publication of The Satanic Verses. He collaborated with Mike Dibb on the book and TV series Ways of Seeing, which analyzed art ideology.

[B25] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's protagonists include Saleem Sinai, who uses his large nose to telepathically connect to hundreds of people who were born with special powers on the eve of India's independence. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    Name this author of Midnight's Children, who took the pseudonym Joseph Anton to escape a fatwa put on him by the ayatollah of Iran.
  Part 2 (ans: Saladin Chamcha [or Saladin Chamcha; or Salahuddin Chamchawala]):
    This London-based voice-actor of Indian descent becomes an analogue of the devil in Rushdie's novel The Satanic Verses.
  Part 3 (ans: The Ground Beneath Her Feet):
    In this other Rushdie novel, the rock musician Ormus Cana and the half-Indian singer Vina Apsara become 20th-century analogues of Orpheus and Eurydice, though she also revives him twice.
