=== STOCK CLUES: Saramago ===
Tossup questions: 15 found, 79 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 23 found, 69 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - In a novel by this author, a character who signs her name with a lowercase "d" declares a "unilateral truce" on New Year's Eve. [PWR]
  - That character, who sends violet-colored letters to people one week before they die, falls in love with a cellist who keeps returning her letters. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, a mattress fire incinerates a group of hoodlums whose leader was killed by a woman whose face was licked by the (*) "dog of tears." A car thief created by this author develops a leg infection after being wounded by the stiletto of the girl with dark glasses. [PWR]
  - This author of Death With Interruptions created a city that is quarantined after an epidemic of "white sickness," which does not affect the doctor's wife.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago] (The sequel to Blindness is Seeing.)
  - This author's first novel, which follows a widow who engages in an affair with her brother-in-law, was retitled Land of Sin.
  - A character created by this author works at the "Central Registry of Births, Marriages and Deaths." In a novel by this author, whose sequel was translated by this author's widow Pilar del Rio, a character uses a stiletto heel to kick a car thief who is shot after developing an infection.
  - In the sequel to a novel by this author of All the Names, a "dog of tears" reappears as the only named character and an election occurs in which the majority of ballots are blank.
  - In a novel by this author, characters like the girl with the dark glasses are quarantined in a ward and the doctor's wife is the only one not affected by the title "white sickness." For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose de Sousa Saramago
  - In a novel by this author, a priest tells a philosopher that 'religion is an earthly matter and has nothing to do with heaven' during a meeting. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author claims his father's sandals after he is executed after trying to help Ananias. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, funeral directors are offered protection from "eternal life activists" by the "maphia". [PWR]
  - The title character meets with an old man and a shepherd in the middle of a lake before finding out they are (*) God and Satan in a novel by this author.
  - In a novel by this author, death falls in love with a cellist while trying to give him a violet letter warning of his demise.
  - This author wrote a novel where the Doctor's Wife is the only one immune to the "white sickness" that inflicts the title condition.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Death at Intervals, The Gospel According to Jesus Christ and Blindness. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic or Republica Portuguesa] (The poem in the first line is "Lisbon Revisited" (1923) by Pessoa. The unnamed novel is The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis by Saramago.)
  - A city in this country titles a poem in which the speaker exclaims "as long as the Silence and Abyss hold off, I want to be alone!", which is the first of two poems titled "[that city] Revisited." A section that groups poems according to the coat of arms opens a collection from this country titled for a translation of the word "message." A poem from this country includes the line "where the land ends and the sea begins," which inspired the first line of a novel from this country that depicts the final year of a "heteronym" of a poet from here.
  - The "dog of tears" protects people in a novel from this country in which the doctor's wife is the only person not afflicted with the title "white sickness." For 10 points, name this home country of Fernando Pessoa and the author of Blindness, Jose Saramago. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - In a novel by this author, a woman explains the meaning of the word "diarrhea," while enticing an orchard's guardian to give her fruit. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of that novel by this author travels through time to see the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and other instances of God's cruelty. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, a character has a recurring nightmare in which he is a Roman soldier who kills his own son. [PWR]
  - (*) Cain was the final novel of this author, who wrote a novel in which Jesus is employed by the Devil as a shepherd and a novel in which "the old man with the black eye patch" and "the boy with the squint" are among those afflicted by a "white sickness" that spares the Doctor's Wife.
  - For 10 points, The Gospel According to Jesus Christ and Blindness are by what Portuguese author? [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago] (The first novel is Cain.)
  - The protagonist of a novel by this author is a time traveler who becomes Lilith's lover and stops Abraham from sacrificing Isaac. [PWR]
  - After fainting in a crowded church, the protagonist of a novel by this author realizes that all of the people depicted in the church's artworks have had their eyes covered with paint or cloth. [PWR]
  - The title character of a novel by this author is forced to sacrifice his favorite sheep while apprenticed to a (*) shepherd, who is the Devil in disguise. [PWR]
  - This author created a woman who stabs the leader of a group of thugs in the throat with scissors while living in a hospital ward with the girl with dark glasses.
  - A novel by this author begins with a city falling victim to the "white sickness," to which only the doctor's wife is immune.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T7] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Lisbon [or Lisboa; accept The History of the Siege of Lisbon or Historia do Cerco de Lisboa] (The first and third sentences refer to The Maias by Eca de Queiros. The fourth sentence references The History of the Siege of Lisbon by Jose Saramago.)
  - A fictional writer who lives in this city dresses up as Mephistopheles to attend a masked ball where he fails to seduce the banker Cohen's wife Rachel.
  - The classics teacher Herman falls asleep in Amsterdam and wakes up in this city in Cees Nooteboom's  The Following Story.
  - The grandfather of an aristocratic family from this capital city dies after learning that his two grandchildren are lovers.
  - This city titles a novel in which a proofreader falls in love with his new supervisor after being reprimanded for adding the word "not" to a manuscript about a historical event.
  - The hotel maid Lydia and the socialite Marcenda have affairs with a character in this city, who himself is a creation of an author from here who wrote a "factless autobiography" containing personas he called "heteronyms." For 10 points, name this capital city where Ricardo Reis meets the ghost of Fernando Pessoa in a book by native son Jose Saramago. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - One of this author's characters is nicknamed "fifty-eight seconds" for his love of Chopin's  Butterfly etude.
  - A novel by this author describes blood mixing with milk after soldiers shoot internees escaping from a mental hospital.
  - In a novel by this author, an unnamed country is ravaged by a non-Italian "maphia" that smuggles people across the border so they can die.
  - This author wrote a novel in which a character's leg gets infected after a girl with dark glasses kicks him with stilettos.
  - That novel by this author opens with a man failing to drive at a green stoplight.
  - In a novel by this author of Death with Interruptions, a highly infectious "white sickness" affects everyone except the doctor's wife.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of the novel Blindness. [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - A novel by this author follows a bachelor who impregnates the chambermaid Lydia after his offer of marriage is refused by a girl with an incurably crippled left hand.
  - In another novel by this author, a cellist evades a letter informing him of his impending death after a brief period where no one dies within the borders of his country.
  - One of this author's protagonists is a doctor who is led to his death by the ghost of a poet.
  - This author of Death with Interruptions created a thief who is wounded from being kicked with a heeled shoe by the girl with the dark glasses.
  - Those characters created by this author are quarantined with the doctor's wife, who is inexplicably immune to the "white sickness." For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis and Blindness. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago
  - A character created by this author befriends a woman with a deformed arm who is taken to useless treatments by her father to cover up visits to his mistress. [PWR]
  - This author created a man who accidentally grabs the index card of an unknown woman while collecting clippings about famous people, leading to an obsessive search that attracts the interest of the Registrar. [PWR]
  - Along with a novel that features the ghost of (*) Fernando Pessoa, this author wrote a book in which a woman accompanied by an animal nicknamed the "dog of tears" sees that statues of saints in a church have been painted over in reference to the title "white sickness." In that novel by this author, the doctor's wife is the only one not afflicted by the title condition. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of All the Names and Blindness. [GIVE]

[T11] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose de Sousa Saramago
  - This author wrote about H., who paints the industrialist S. and has an affair with his secretary, in Manual of Painting and Calligraphy. [PWR]
  - This man wrote about Bartholomew Lorenzo's invention of the Passarola, a flying machine that is flown by the title lovers to escape the Inquisition. [PWR]
  - In another of his works, a man steals a car from a cripple out of "generosity and altruism" and is later fatally kicked after trying to grope a girl. [PWR]
  - The "dog of tears" follows one of this author's protagonists, who is suspected of causing 83% of voters to turn in blank ballots after leading her (*) ward during an epidemic.
  - Characters of this author of Baltasar and Blimunda include the ex-prostitute with the dark glasses and the doctor's wife, who is the only character exempt from the title condition.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - In a novel by this author, the unusual appearance of a hotel clerk in a romantic comedy greatly alarms the history teacher Tertuliano.
  - In another novel, this author also wrote about several religious elders who order the burial of some mysterious glowing earth.
  - Early in that novel by this author, the protagonist's father dies while attempting to save Ananias, and he sacrifices a sheep with a marked ear after being ordered to do so by God.
  - This author of The Double also wrote a novel in which the protagonist uses a pair of scissors to kill a rapist while quarantined with her doctor husband during the title pandemic.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of The Gospel According to Jesus Christ and Blindness. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - The opening chapter of a novel by this man features a conversation between representatives of the p.i.t.m., the p.o.t.r., and the p.o.t.l. [PWR]
  - One of his characters repeats a maxim ending "let us do everything in our power not to live entirely like animals". [PWR]
  - A late novel by this man gives the name "Constant" to a character that was previously known as the "dog of tears". [PWR]
  - The old man with the eyepatch and the girl with the (*) dark glasses hook up in one of his novels, while the plot of another is set into motion when 83% of the voters in an election turn in blank ballots. [PWR]
  - The scissors-stabbing of a sadistic man eventually leads to the burning of an asylum used for quarantine in this author's most famous novel, in which the doctor's wife is the only person not to suffer the title epidemic.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Seeing, a sequel to his 1995 hit Blindness. [GIVE]

[T14] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago
  - In one of this author's novels, people discover that they are no longer able to die, until an organization called the Maphia discovers a way to kill them.
  - One of this author's novels follows the trek of a pachyderm named Solomon, who was given as a gift to Archduke Maximilian.
  - This author wrote a novel in which a history teacher rents a film and becomes obsessed with meeting an actor who looks just like him.
  - In one of this man's novels, the doctor's wife stabs the leader of a gang of hoodlums in the neck with a pair of scissors, and leads several people who cannot see out of a quarantined asylum.
  - This author of The Double wrote a novel in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from the rest of Europe.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness and The Stone Raft. [GIVE]

[T15] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose de Sousa Saramago
  - This writer lamented the dying culinary art of eating buttered toast in a novel whose protagonist has an affair with the administrator of proofreaders Dr.
  - Maria Sara.
  - One of his characters visits a supermarket storeroom full of dead bodies and kills a man who demands that women sleep with the men of his ward in order to be fed.
  - In his sequel to that novel, the government brands as terrorists the 87% of voters who turn in blank ballots on election afternoon.
  - This author wrote about the consequences of Raimundo Silva inserting the word "not" into a medieval history manuscript in History of the Siege of Lisbon.
  - His most famous novel includes the girl with the dark glasses, who takes refuge in a disused mental hospital, and begins with an old man stopped at a traffic light, the first victim of the "white disease." For 10 points, name this author of Seeing, the sequel to his novel Blindness, a Nobel laureate from Portugal. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the final chapter of Antonio Tabucchi's ("ta-BOO-kee's")Requiem, this character claims that Botto was an aesthete and not gay while dining with the narrator. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the spirit of Fernando Antonio Nogueira de Seabra Pessoa [reject Ricardo Reis or other heteronyms of Pessoa]):
    Name this character. One novel ends with the title character taking his jacket and his copy of Herbert Quain's God of the Labyrinth and following this character to the graveyard.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose de Sousa Saramago):
    The protagonist frequently converses with the ghost of his creator Pessoa in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, a novel written by this Portuguese author of Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: JesusChrist [accept either underlined, accept The Gospel According to Jesus Christ]):
    A poem attributed to Ricardo Reis addresses this person and begins "Hate you, [this person], I do not". In a novel by Saramago that's titled for them, this person is commanded to copulate with a sheep by a shepherd who turns out to be the Devil in disguise.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this group known as the "Master" wrote the collection The Keeper of Sheep and published a "General Program" of neopaganism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms of Fernando Pessoa [accept pseudonyms of Fernando Pessoa or alter egos of Fernando Pessoa; prompt on heteronyms]):
    Name this group of writers, including the poets Alberto Caeiro ("al-BAIR-too kah-AY-roo") and Alvaro de Campos ("ALL-vah-roo dee KAM-poosh"). Bernando Soares ("ber-NAR-doo SWARSH"), a writer accorded semi-membership in this group, is the attributed author of The Book of Disquiet.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    The heteronym Ricardo Reis ("ree-CAR-doo RAYSH") is the subject of a later novel by this Portuguese author of Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: crossword puzzles [prompt on puzzles or games] (The Pessoa heteronym is "A.A. Crosse")):
    An English heteronym of Pessoa with first and middle initials "A.A." is named in reference to these constructs, one of which begins chapter 2 of Laszlo Krasznahorkai's Seiobo There Below. These constructs also inspired Milorad Pavic's ("PAH-vitch's") Landscape Painted with Tea.

[B3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: After driving a rival out of Leiria, the title priest of a novel by this author secretly becomes the lover of Amelia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eca de Queiroz [accept either underlined portion; or Jose Maria de Eca de Queiroz; or Eca de Queiros]):
    Name this realist author of The Crime of Father Amaro who also chronicled the downfall of the title family in his novel The Maias.
  Part 2 (ans: Cousin Bazilio [or O Primo Basilio; accept Dragon's Teeth: A Novel]):
    In this Eca de Queiroz novel, the maid Juliana blackmails Luiza due to her affair with the title womanizer, who apathetically jokes about the suffering he caused to Luiza and her husband Jorge.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    Margaret Jull Costa has won awards for her translation of The Maias and for her translations of All the Names and The Elephant's Journey, two novels by this author of The Stone Raft.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, Lord Byron's play about this figure inspires a protagonist based on this figure to embrace his hatred for the title character, a painter who marries Helena. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cain):
    Name this figure represented by the doctor Joaquin in Miguel de Unamuno's novel Abel Sanchez. Joaquin attempts to murder Abel Sanchez out of jealousy, much like how this Biblical figure killed his brother Abel.
  Part 2 (ans: Portuguese [or portugues] (The novels are Cain and The Gospel According to Jesus Christ by Jose Saramago.)):
    After killing Abel, Cain becomes a lover of Lilith in a 2009 novel in this language. In another novel in this language, the title character is forced to sacrifice his favorite sheep after working as a shepherd for the Devil.
  Part 3 (ans: Leopold von Sacher-Masoch [or Leopold Ritter von Sacher-Masoch] (The novel is Venus in Furs.)):
    This author attempted to define his aesthetic ideal in his unfinished novella cycle Legacy of Cain, which includes a book in which Wanda and Severin engage in "suprasensuality."

[B5] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: These characters include Alexander Search, who wrote over a hundred poems imitating real-life English poets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms [or semi-heteronyms, or heteronimos]):
    Give the general term for these characters, which include Bernardo Soares in The Book of Disquiet. These characters differ from pseudonyms in that they have an intellectual life distinct from their creator, Fernando Pessoa.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    This author depicted one of Pessoa's over seventy heteronyms in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis. This Portuguese author's other novels include Death with Interruptions and Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Alvaro de Campos):
    Another of Pessoa's heteronyms is this poet, a former mechanical engineer whose poetry is divided into one futuristic and two decadent phases. This poet depicted his desire "to feel everything in every way" in the poem "Tobacco Shop."

[B6] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the blind girl Gertrude regains her eyesight and falls in love with a pastor's son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The other novel is The Immoralist.)):
    Name this author of the novel The Pastoral Symphony. In a different novel by this author, the tuberculosis-suffering protagonist watches the boy Moktir steal a pair of scissors.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    A town suddenly regains its eyesight at the end of the novel Blindness written by this Portuguese author.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo [accept Pablo Neruda] (The poem is "The Heights of Macchu Picchu.")):
    In a novel by the Spanish author Benito Perez Galdos, a boy with this first name regains his eyesight and rejects the girl Marianela. The final section of a twelve-part poem by a poet with this first name declares, "Rise up in birth with me, my brother."

[B7] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, people are transported out of an unnamed landlocked country by an organization known as the Maphia, spelled with a "P-H." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Death with Interruptions [or Death at Intervals or As Intermitencias da Morte]):
    Name this novel whose title concept is personified as a woman with an all-lowercase name. That woman in this novel terrifies people with letters in violet envelopes before she falls in love with a cellist.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    This Portuguese author of Death with Interruptions depicted "the white sickness" in the novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Ricardo Reis [or Ricardo Reis; accept The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis or O Ano da Morte de Ricardo Reis]):
    Another Saramago novel depicts the final year of this character, who dies by putting on his jacket and going to a cemetery. In that novel, this heteronym of the real-life author Fernando Pessoa outlives Pessoa himself.

[B8] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, people with this condition include the girl with the dark glasses and the car thief. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blindness [or word forms; or equivalents such as vision impairment; or cegueira or cego or cega; prompt on "the white sickness" or "mal-branco"]):
    Name this condition whose early victims are placed in an asylum. A woman pretends to have this condition in order to stay with her afflicted husband and later helps those victims escape.
  Part 2 (ans: the dog of tears [or Constant or Constante; or o cachorro das lagrimas; prompt on dog or cachorro]):
    In the novel Blindness, the doctor's wife starts crying while lost in the rain but is comforted by this character, who licks her face and joins her group. This character kills and eats a hen that belongs to an old woman.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    This Portuguese author used his dog Camoes ("cah-MOYSH") as an inspiration for the dog of tears in his novel Blindness.

[B9] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After this character observes a fortress firing on several damaged warships, he repeats his saying "wise is the man who contents himself with the spectacle of the world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ricardo Reis [accept either underlined name; do not accept or prompt on "Fernando Pessoa"]):
    Name this character who arrives on the Highland Brigade after a failed rebellion in Brazil. Initially intending to practice medicine, this character meets Dr. Sampaio and his daughter Marcenda, who has a paralyzed arm.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose (de Sousa) Saramago):
    The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis was written by this Portuguese author. This author wrote about an epidemic of "white sickness" that affects everyone but the doctor's wife in his novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: The Book of Disquiet [or Livro do Desassossego]):
    Fernando Pessoa's flaneur lifestyle influenced both The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis and his other heteronym Bernardo Soares, who is credited with writing this posthumous "factless autobiography" by Pessoa.

[B10] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel, this character is doomed to live alone on Earth after killing all the humans on Noah's Ark. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cain):
    Name this character. In another author's work subtitled The History of a Passion, the protagonist Joaquin Sanchez is based on the story of this character.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    This author wrote Abel Sanchez: The History of a Passion. This Spanish member of the Generation of '98 wrote the philosophical essay The Tragic Sense of Life, and coined the term nivola for their short work Mist.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    Cain is the final novel by this author. This Portuguese author also wrote the novel Blindness.

[B11] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literary doppelgangers, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de SousaSaramago]):
    A Mesopotamia-obsessed history professor discovers his doppelganger while watching a film in this author's novel The Double. This Portuguese author also wrote the novel Blindness.
  Part 2 (ans: Ursula K. Le Guin ("luh gwin") (The novels described are A Wizard of Earthsea and The Left Hand of Darkness.)):
    Ged has an evil doppelganger known as "the nameless one" in a novel by this author. An ambassador travels across an ice sheet on the genderfluid planet of Gethen in another novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Williams [or Chales Walter Stansby Williams]):
    The thespian Pauline Anstruther is haunted by herdoppelganger in this author's "theological detective" novel Descent into Hell. This member of the Inklings also wrote about a bunch of Platonic archetypes disrupting life in an English village in his novel The Place of the Lion.

[B12] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel fondly remembers an office boy who buys travel brochures but never travels anywhere. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of Disquiet (accept Livro do Desassossego)):
    This book by Fernando Pessoa consists of a series of fragmentary observations in the form of a diary. One entry called "How to Dream Metaphysics" describes a way of entering 'a higher stage of dreaming' while another entitled "The Visual Lover" declares that 'humanity is a vast decorative motif.'
  Part 2 (ans: Bernardo Soares):
    The Book of Disquiet was supposedly written by this bookkeeper from Lisbon, one of Pessoa's heteronyms. He enjoys buying books but not reading them.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    This other Portuguese author of Blindness wrote The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, which concerns another of Pessoa's heteronyms.

[B13] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Chapter 2 of Hermann Hesse's Demian, the title character explains to Emil Sinclair an alternate interpretation of this tale, after they attend a school lecture on it. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Cain and Abel [accept names in either order; accept Cain's Curse; the Mark of Cain; and obvious equivalents to those two; prompt on Book of Genesis]):
    Name this Biblical tale. In another novel, several characters discuss the meaning of the word "timshel" in this tale.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    This Portuguese author's final novel is narrated by the biblical Cain. He is better known for a novel in which the doctor's wife is unaffected by an epidemic of blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    This member of the Spanish Generation of '98 adapted the Cain and Abel story into a novel called Abel Sanchez. He argued that "reason is the enemy of life" in his philosophical masterpiece, The Tragic Sense of Life.

[B14] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character kills the "King of Ward Three" by stabbing him in the neck with a pair of scissors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the doctor's wife):
    Name this only character immune to a certain condition in a 1995 novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    The doctor's wife appears in Blindness, which was written by this Portuguese author who retold the life of Jesus in The Gospel According to Jesus Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: The Elephant's Journey [or A Viagem do Elefante]):
    In this second-to-last novel by Saramago, King Joao III sends an animal named Solomon as a gift to Archduke Maximilian. Solomon is cared for by Subhro, who later has his name changed to Fitz when they arrive in Austria.

[B15] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a novel in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from Europe and includes a character who is followed everywhere by a flock of birds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    Identify this author of The Stone Raft who is also known for his novel Blindness.
  Part 2 (ans: Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa (don't accept any pseudonyms, if people get huffy about that prompt and ask for his actual name)):
    This other major figure of Portuguese literature is primarily known for his poetry, but lack of quality translations of it means that in the English speaking world he is probably better known for his Kierkegaardian proliferation of pseudonyms and his work The Book of Disquiet.
  Part 3 (ans: The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis):
    This Saramago novel concerns a character named for one of Pessoa's pseudonyms, who returns to Portugal after hearing of Pessoa's death.

[B16] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this group penned the lines "I am nothing / I shall never be anything / I cannot wish to be anything" in the poem "Tobacco Shop", written after his time living in Newcastle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms of Fernando Pessoa [or alter ego, pseudonym, nom de plume, or other rough equivalents in place of "heteronym"]):
    Name this group that includes the Englishman Alexander Search, whose death at twenty was commemorated in an epigraph; the doctor-detective Abilio Quaresma; and the poet Alvaro de Campos.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    One of Pessoa's heteronyms outlives him in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, a novel by this Portuguese author, who wrote of an epidemic of "white sickness" in his novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: The Stone Raft):
    Five people come together to travel across Iberia in this Saramago novel, in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from Europe and floats across the Atlantic.

[B17] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A dog in this novel is said to have no names and every name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Stone Raft [or A Jangada de Pedra]):
    Name this novel in which Joanna Carda's actions wreak havoc around the world by causing the Iberian Peninsula to break off from the rest of Europe.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    The Stone Raft was written by this Portuguese author of Blindness who described the title character's birth in a cave, rather than a manger, in The Gospel According to Jesus Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: All the Names [or Todos os Nomes]):
    This Saramago novel follows a bureaucrat named Senhor Jose who works in the Central Ministry of Births, Marriages, and Deaths.

[B18] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some authors who have written about a common theme.
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    In the best known novel by this author of The Gospel According to Jesus Christ, a doctor's wife is the only character who does not lose the ability to see, leading to general chaos.
  Part 2 (ans: Maurice Polydore Marie Bernard Maeterlinck):
    This French-language author from Belgium wrote a one act play called The Blind. His better known works include Pelleas and Melisande and The Blue Bird.
  Part 3 (ans: Herbert George Wells):
    A traveler in the Andes declines to have eye surgery to stay with the girl he loves from the title land of this author's short story "The Country of the Blind." He also wrote The Time Machine.

[B19] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: The father of the protagonist of this novel is executed after being mistaken for a Zealot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Gospel According to Jesus Christ [or O Evangelho Segundo Jesus Cristo]):
    Name this religiously themed novel which interpolates a skeptical narrative into the life of the title figure, who spends forty days in a boat with God and the Devil on the Sea of Galilee.
  Part 2 (ans: Blindness or Ensaio sobre a cegueira):
    In this other novel by the same author, all of the main characters are only referred to by descriptions, such as the "girl with dark glasses." In this novel, the Doctor's wife is the only one not struck with the title condition.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    Both Blindness and The Gospel According to Jesus Christ were written by this Portuguese author, who is known for his postmodern descriptions of bizarre situations, such as Iberia breaking off from Europe in The Stone Raft.

[B20] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ibis, Pip, and Nympha Negra are a few of this author's many, many heteronyms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Pessoa):
    This Portuguese author wrote of the "cold in Hadrian's soul" in the poem "Antinous," but is indubitably better known for his monumental Book of Disquiet.
  Part 2 (ans: Gil Vicente):
    Pessoa was perhaps influenced by this "Portuguese Plautus," who penned the line "the pursuit of love / is like falconry" back in the 1500s.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    This more recent Portuguese author wrote The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, about another of Pessoa's heteronyms. In another novel, he wrote of a woman who remains healthy as everyone else around her succumbs to blindness.

[B21] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Published under the name Bernardo Soares, this book claims to be a "factless autobiography." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of Disquiet [or Livro do Desassossego: Composto por Bernardo Soares, ajudante de guarda-livros na cidade de Lisboa]):
    Name this work that develops the character of one of Fernando Pessoa's heteronyms as a man who lives a life of voluntary loneliness and existential thought.
  Part 2 (ans: Blindness [or Ensaio sobre a cegueira]):
    Another work of literature from the same country as The Book of Disquiet is this work in which the King of Ward 3 is killed with a pair of scissors. This book is about an illness that affects everyone except the Doctor's Wife.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose de Sousa Saramago):
    This Portuguese author wrote of how another of Pessoa's heteronyms hears of Pessoa's death and goes to Lisbon to live out his final days in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis. He also wrote Blindness.

[B22] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: He won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1998. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    What atheist author's works include Death with Interruptions and Cain?
  Part 2 (ans: Blindness [or Ensaio Sobre a Cegueira; or Essay on Blindness]):
    The Doctor's Wife is the only character not afflicted with the title epidemic in what most famous Saramago novel?
  Part 3 (ans: The Gospel According to Jesus Christ [or O Evangelho Segundo Jesus Cristo]):
    This other Saramago novel is a controversial retelling of early Christianity in which the title character is depicted living with Mary Magdalene and having second thoughts about the crucifixion.

[B23] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The chambermaid Lydia finds her way into the bed of this character, who pursues a romantic friendship with Marcenda, who is receiving treatment for her paralyzed arm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ricardo Reis [accept either; accept The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis; accept O Ano da Morte de Ricardo Reis; prompt on Fernando Antonio Nogueira de Seabra Pessoa]):
    Name this doctor who returns on a steamship from Brazil, spends his days reading newspapers and Herbert Quain's novel The God of the Labyrinth, and calmly walks to a graveyard soon after a mutiny aboard three battleships.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose [de Sousa] Saramago):
    The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis was written by this Portuguese author who also wrote a novel in which only the doctor's wife is spared from the contagion of Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Death with Interruptions [or Death at Intervals; or As intermitencias da Morte]):
    In this novel by Saramago, the Maphia devise a plan whereby people are tossed outside a country's borders and die instantly. The title phenomenon is personified as a woman who falls in love with a cellist, ending a brief respite from immortality.
