=== STOCK CLUES: Amelie ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Amelie Nothomb [or Fabienne-Claire Nothomb]
  - In a play by this author, a character quotes Georges Bernanos to say that hell is cold in protest of the Professor's selections from the bookshelf. [PWR]
  - Another of this author's characters is obsessed with her boss, whose name means that she was born during a winter snowstorm.
  - In a play by this author, the Professor and Marina argue about which books they should burn to keep warm during the war. [PWR]
  - After she gets her first period, Leopoldine is murdered by her cousin, an aficionado of Brandy Alexanders, in a novel by this author. [PWR]
  - This author of (*) Human Rites wrote about a woman who goes from changing calendar dates to writing a report about the butter industry for Mr.
  - Tenshi before she strips naked while working overnight in accounting for Fubuki Mori at the Yumimoto corporation.
  - In a novel by this author, a series of journalists are too disgusted to interview the elderly, obese author Pretextat Tach, who is dying of the rare Elzenveiverplatz syndrome.
  - For 10 points, name this Belgian author of Fear and Trembling and Hygiene and the Assassin. [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Portrait ofMadame X [or Portrait de Mme *** ; accept Portrait of Madame Pierre Gautreau until read; accept Portrait of Virginie Amelie Avegno until Gautreau is read]
  - The subject of this painting drinks a toast in a portrait made a year earlier that is now in the Isabella Stewart Gardner museum. [PWR]
  - The Met displays this painting near a portrait by William Merritt Chase of Marietta Benedict Cotton that references a table in this painting. [PWR]
  - Arsenic treatments may be the cause of the unusually white skin of the subject of this non-commissioned painting. [PWR]
  - The significant amount of criticism it drew at the Paris Salon of (*) 1884 caused its artist to retouch the shoulder strap of the dress of its Creole subject, whose face is rendered in profile. [PWR]
  - This painting depicts Virginie Gautreau, although its official title renders the subject anonymous.
  - For 10 points, name this scandalous portrait of a woman in a black dress by John Singer Sargent. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Amelie Matisse [or Mrs. Matisse; or Henri Matisse's wife; or Amelie Noellie Parayre; prompt on Matisse]
  - Jean Metzinger created a divisionist rendition of a painting of this woman, whose artist exasperatedly replied "Black, obviously," upon being asked about her dress.
  - This woman holds a fan in her gloved arm and sits on a blue chair in that controversial painting, which was bought by Leo and Gertrude Stein.
  - This woman often alternated modeling duty with her husband's daughter Marguerite.
  - This woman's black hair is done in a bun in a painting in which her face is bifurcated by the title feature.
  - A portrait of this woman was singled out for attack at the 1905 Salon d'Automne by critics who likened it to a wild beast.
  - For 10 points, name this subject of Woman with a Hat and Green Stripe, which were painted by her husband, the leader of the Fauvists. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The journal L'Evenement criticized the comtesse Zamoiska by claiming that her dress had a "neckline a la [this figure]." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Madame X [or Virginie Gautreau or Virginie Amelie Avegno Gautreau; accept Portrait of Madame X] (The first portrait is by Antonio de La Gandara.)):
    Name this person who, in an 1884 portrait, wears a white dress while holding a fan and facing away from the viewer. In a different portrait, this woman wears a crescent tiara symbolizing the goddess Diana.
  Part 2 (ans: shoulder strap):
    Sargent's Portrait of Madame X was highly controversial in large part due to its positioning of this part of Gautreau's dress, which Sargent later changed from resting on Gautreau's arm.
  Part 3 (ans: Gustave Courtois [or Gustave-Claude-Etienne Courtois]):
    Gautreau attempted to re-enter public consciousness by commissioning a portrait from this artist in which she wears a pearl bracelet and a white dress whose left strap deliberately hangs off her shoulder.

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The mistress Dot sings "a trickle of sweat, the back of the head" in a number that begins with this character saying "White. A blank page or canvas. The challenge: bring order to the whole." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Seurat [accept either part individually]):
    Name this character originally debuted by Mandy Patinkin, who sings numbers like "Move On" and "Finish the Hat" while working on his masterpiece, which is displayed in 1984 with Chromolume #7.
  Part 2 (ans: Stephen Sondheim [or Stephen Joshua Sondheim]):
    Sunday in the Park with George was written by this titan of Broadway. This composer also wrote Sweeney Todd, Into the Woods, Company, and A Little Night Music.
  Part 3 (ans: Amelie):
    A man with bone disease recreates Luncheon of the Boating Party in this non-Sondheim musical. In this musical adapted from a 2001 film, the title character, who was played by Phillipa Soo in its Los Angeles staging, finds a mysterious box on the night of Princess Diana's death.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In English, this condition titles a novel depicting the travails of the gay youth Leo Auberg, who is based on the real-life poet Oskar Pastior. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hunger [accept Sult; accept The Hunger Angel]):
    Name this condition, which also titles a novel about an impoverished writer who gives a woman the name "Ylajali" ("ee-lah-YAH-lee") while wandering around Kristiania.
  Part 2 (ans: Romania):
    The Stalinist deportation of Germans from this country is depicted in Herta Muller's The Hunger Angel. The play Hunger and Thirst was written by a dramatist born in this country, Eugene Ionesco ("uh-ZHEN joh-NESS-koh").
  Part 3 (ans: Amelie Nothomb [or Fabienne Claire Nothomb]):
    This author, who fictionalized her experiences with anorexia in The Life of Hunger, depicted a European woman's humiliating experience in the Japanese work world in Fear and Trembling.

[B4] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Victims of one of these events were known as damnificados. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: earthquakes):
    President Miguel de la Madrid was criticized for his poor handling of what sort of natural disaster which destroyed much of Mexico City's Centro Historico and Tlatelolco ("tla-tell-ohl-coh") districts in 1985?
  Part 2 (ans: Cardenas (Lazaro and Cuauhtemoc).):
    The PRI's poor handling of the earthquake was one of the reasons that led Cuauhtemoc ("kwa-ooh-tay-mok"), a member of this family, to run against it as part of the PRD. An earlier president of Mexico with this surname nationalized the country's oil industry to create Pemex.
  Part 3 (ans: Elena Poniatowska [or Helene Elizabeth Louise Amelie Paula Dolores Poniatowska]):
    This journalist chronicled her own experiences during the earthquake in Nothing, Nobody. Her account of the 1968 student protests in Tlatelolco was published as Massacre in Mexico.

[B5] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one scene from this musical, the titular astronomical phenomenon causes Pierre to experience a moment of enlightenment. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812):
    Name this 2012 musical written by Dave Malloy and Rachel Chavkin based on a chapter from War and Peace. Josh Groban made his Broadway debut in this musical in 2016.
  Part 2 (ans: Phillipa Soo):
    Natasha was originally played by this mixed-race actress, better known for playing the role of Eliza Schuyler in the musical Hamilton.
  Part 3 (ans: Amelie [or Le Fabuleux Destin d'Amelie Poulain or The Fabulous Destiny of Amelie Poulain]):
    Phillipa Soo also starred in the Broadway adaptation of this quirky French romantic comedy about a shy waitress who carries out elaborate schemes to make other people happy.

[B6] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Pierre-Auguste Renoir's ("run-WAHR's") influence on French cinema, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amelie Poulain ("ah-may-LEE poo-LAN") [accept either underlined portion]):
    This film character has a neighbor who repaints The Luncheon of the Boating Party every year and who compares her to the woman sipping from a glass near the center of the canvas.
  Part 2 (ans: Patricia Franchini [accept either underlined portion] (from Godard's Breathless)):
    This character poses in front of a poster of a Renoir portrait and asks whether she's prettier than it. In the final scene, she imitates her lover's gesture of rubbing his lips with his thumb, which is itself an imitation of Humphrey Bogart.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean ("zhahn")):
    Renoir's most enduring contribution to cinema is presumably fathering a son of this first name who directed such masterpieces as The Rules of the Game and Grand Illusion.

[B7] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting is stylistically similar to its artist's Capri, which shows Rosina Ferrara on the roof of a white stucco building near a woman holding a tambourine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: El Jaleo (hah-LAY-oh)):
    Name this painting held in the Isabella Stewart Gardner museum, which constructed its Spanish Cloister wing around this work. Its central woman casts a dramatic shadow on the back wall as she lifts her skirt in dance.
  Part 2 (ans: John Singer Sargent):
    El Jaleo is by this American artist, who scandalized the 1884 Paris Salon with his Portrait of Madame X.
  Part 3 (ans: Virginie Gautreau [or Virginie Amelie Avegno Gautreau; or Virginie Amelie Avegno]):
    This woman was the model for Portrait of Madame X. After the scandal, this woman's mother demanded that the painting be removed from the Salon, but Sargent refused.

[B8] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about cancer in European literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksandr (Isayevich) Solzhenitsyn):
    While exiled in Kazakhstan, Oleg Kostoglotov has affairs with the nurse Zoya and the doctor Vera Gangart in Cancer Ward, a novel by this Russian author of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Amelie Nothomb):
    A fictional form of cartilage cancer called "Elzenveiverplatz syndrome" affects the misogynist novelist Pretextat Tach in Hygiene and the Assassin, a novel by this Belgian writer who also wrote Fear and Trembling.
  Part 3 (ans: Gunter (Wilhelm) Grass):
    The narrator meditates on the real-life death of Nicolas Born from cancer while telling the story of Harm and Dorte Peters in this author's novel Headbirths. He wrote one chapter for each year of the 20th century in his book My Century.

[B9] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist created the Carnegie Prize-winning Still Life With Game, now housed at the Met, as part of the "Return to Order" movement imitating the old masters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Derain):
    Identify this artist, who created The Pool of London and several other paintings depicting the Thames.
  Part 2 (ans: Henri Matisse):
    The bright paintings of Derain and this other artist, the creator of The Dance, were dubbed Les Fauves.
  Part 3 (ans: Amelie Matisse [or Matisse's wife or clear equivalents; prompt on Matisse]):
    The depiction of this person in a violent purple in Matisse's Woman with a Hat was central to the Fauvist controversy. She is also shown with the title feature on her face in The Green Stripe.

[B10] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: The woman spent almost 60 years secluded in Bouchout Castle while suffering from crippling depression. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Empress Carlota [or Marie-Charlotte-Amelie-Augustine-Victoire-Clementine-Leopoldine]):
    Identify this daughter of Leopold I of Belgium who fled Lombardy-Venetia with her husband in 1859.
  Part 2 (ans: Emperor Maximilian I [or Ferdinand Maximilian Joseph]):
    Carlota was the wife of this Emperor of Mexico, who was executed in June 1867.
  Part 3 (ans: the Madeira Islands [or Funchal Islands or Arquipelago da Madeira]):
    After fleeing Italy, Maximilian sailed to Brazil, but an ill Carlota was stuck in this place. Carlota would later write a memoir of "A Winter in [This Place]", which was an early sugar producer for Europe and whose wine industry was founded by discoverer Joao Goncalves Zarco.
