=== STOCK CLUES: Havel ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 60 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 HILTON (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Vaclav Havel
  - A character created by this author echoes Hamlet by saying, "now I want to be all the time and that's why all the time I must a little bit not-be." Musician Paul Wilson translated a work by this author in which a character who is fired for helping her boss is told by him to find work in a theater. [PWR]
  - In that play by this author, George watches characters through (*) cracks in the walls and temporarily replaces the protagonist in his job. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author a character dons a papier-mache nose in order to mimic the bureaucratic Maxy Falk.
  - A play by this author ends with Chorukor replacing the language Ptydepe because of how complicated it is.
  - For 10 points, name this author who satirized the politics of his home country in The Memorandum and The Garden Party. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Vaclav ("VATS-laff") Havel
  - In a play by this author, the protagonist is tricked into signing a document by a man who spreads the rumor that the protagonist takes a rubber stamp home and lets his children play with it. [PWR]
  - The protagonist disguises himself with a papier-mache nose and proposes swapping Small Dance Floor C and Large Dance Floor A in a play by this author that begins with the protagonist playing chess with himself. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, Josef (*) Gross fights the official adoption of the bureaucratic language Ptydepe . [PWR]
  - He wrote a play in which the Liquidation Office hires Hugo Pludek after he uses cliches and jargon to bamboozle people at the title outdoor gathering.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Memorandum and The Garden Party, who was a prominent Czech politician. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dutch [or Nederlands, Netherlandic, or Netherlandish] (The third line refers to Anton de Kom's We Slaves of Suriname; Max Havelaar is also in the Canon of the Netherlands.)
  - A novel in this language includes the recurring image of a mysterious hadji dressed in white. [PWR]
  - A novel in this language describes a house by dividing it into 21 squares and listing the squares corresponding to each room; that novel's narrator writes a line-by-line refutation of some "trash by Heine" to prove that no one who recites poetry can have a "love of truth." In 2020, a country that uses this language overhauled its official "Canon" to include the author of We Slaves of [one of its colonies]. [PWR]
  - In a novel in this language, a (*) buffalo gores a tiger's stomach to save Saijah's life; that novel's protagonist is incensed by colonial bureaucrats' collusion with the Adhipatti.
  - A novel in this language, which has been called "the novel that killed colonialism," begins with Scarfman giving some manuscripts to an employee of Last & Co. coffee brokers.
  - For 10 points, name this language used by Multatuli, the author of Max Havelaar. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Max Havelaar, Or the Coffee Auctions of a Dutch Trading Company (the first and sixth lines refer to a New York Times review by Pramoedya Toer)
  - A 1999 review of this novel begins by describing diplomat Agus Salim smoking a cigarette and notes that D.H. [PWR]
  - Lawrence called this novel "a most irritating work." In this novel's epigraph, a man named Lothario stands trial for cutting up Betsy into little pieces and salting them.
  - During a "monotonous" story in this novel, a boy who is saved from a tiger attack by his family's new buffalo later dies "embracing" bayonets after finding the mutilated corpse of his lover (*) Adinda.
  - After Slotering is poisoned, this novel's protagonist and his wife Tina are forced to leave Lebak by Mr.
  - Slymering. [PWR]
  - This novel was written by an author who adopted a pen name that is Latin for "I have suffered much." A [emphasize] later author who wrote the (*) Buru Quartet praised this novel as "The Book That Killed Colonialism" for exposing the abuses of the "Cultivation System." This novel begins with Drystubble declaring, "I am a coffee-broker, and live at No. 37 Laurier Canal, Amsterdam." For 10 points, name this novel criticizing Dutch colonialism in Indonesia, a work by Multatuli. [PWR,GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Vaclav ("VAHTS-lav") Havel
  - In a play by this author, a man can only stutter "magnet - telephone - magnet" to support his claim that "we live in a technical age." In that play by this author, a man gives a confusing rant saying "A is not just A...
  - F can be Q or even Y or R!" In a play by this author, a couple is ashamed of their "bourgeois intellectual" son Peter.
  - This author created a dissident writer who works at a brewery in a quartet of plays that includes Protest and Audience.
  - A man who plays chess by himself hears an argument about the size of "Large Dance Floor A" and meets Maxy Falk at the title event, which is hosted by the Liquidation Office in a play by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech playwright of The Memorandum, who described Hugo Pludek's descent into bureaucracy in The Garden Party. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Vaclav Havel
  - An early formulation of this author's notion of an "existential revolution" is found in the prison letters to his wife published in his magazine Expedition Edition. [PWR]
  - Echoing Karl Marx, this author wrote "a specter is haunting Eastern Europe" to begin an essay which describes a greengrocer who displays "workers of the world, unite" in his window. [PWR]
  - This author of Letters to Olga created a character who repeatedly shouts "Check!" at an event where he meets the "inaugurator" (*) Maxy and learns to speak in bureaucratic cliches. [PWR]
  - In that play by him, Mr.
  - Kalabis is part of the Liquidation Office, which hosts the title celebration attended by Hugo Pludek.
  - The essay The Power of the Powerless and the play The Garden Party are by, for 10 points, what author and first president of the Czech Republic? [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Vaclav ("VAHT-slav") Havel
  - This author cites Saul Bellow's line "To God, he jotted several lines" as his favorite from Herzog and recounts the sense of freedom present in his daily tea-drinking habit in a set of letters written to his wife from prison.
  - This author posits that ideology transcends physical power in a "post-totalitarian" system, which can be challenged by his notion of "small-scale work." An essay by this 20th-century author opens by describing a specter of (*) "dissent" haunting Eastern Europe. [PWR]
  - That essay by this author argues a sign reading "I am afraid and therefore unquestioningly obedient" would be accurate in the case of a greengrocer's indifference towards a "Workers of the world, unite!" sign placed in a shop window.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Power of the Powerless," an Eastern Bloc dissident writer who was the first president of the Czech Republic. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Max Havelaar
  - In the final chapter of this novel, its author vows to translated it into "the few languages that I know, and the many languages I can still learn" if its message is not heard. [PWR]
  - A letter in this novel disparages the "halfness" of a character regarding the construction of a prison.
  - A character in this novel is saved when his father's buffalo fights a tiger, but is later killed by bayonets when he rushes a group of soldiers in grief after finding his lover dead. [PWR]
  - This novel's protagonist clashes with his servant Mr.
  - Verbrugge and is denounced when he attempts to file an official (*) protest against the Adhipatti by Mr. [PWR]
  - Slimering.
  - This novel, called "the book that killed colonialism" by Pramoedya Toer, is framed around a manuscript authored by Shawlman with an insert written by Drystubble, who assures the reader that the natives in this novel are being rightfully punished for being heathens.
  - For 10 points, name this satire about the coffee farming on Dutch Java, written by Multatuli. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Vaclav Havel
  - In one of this author's plays, a character who never appears on stage uses chinks and cracks in the wall to spy on people in the main setting, although everyone he watches knows he is there.
  - Another of this writer's plays begins with the protagonist playing chess by himself until the doorbell rings, after which his parents send his brother Peter into a pantry for being a "bourgeois intellectual." That play's protagonist yells "Checkmate!" at the end of a convoluted speech in which he questions his own identity.
  - In another of this author's plays, a secretary named Maria insists that she does not have permission to translate (*) Ptydepe, a fictional language that obfuscates Josef Gross' understanding of the title document.
  - In a play by this author, a chatty inaugurator named Hugo Maxy is among the attendees of the title event at the Liquidation Office, which is visited by Hugo Pludek.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech playwright who wrote The Memorandum and The Garden Party. [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vaclav Havel
  - An essay by this author begins "A specter is haunting Eastern Europe: the specter of what in the West is called dissent" and includes a discussion of the signs that shopkeepers put in their windows as well as an elaboration of the idea of parallel structures, which was originally put forth by a compatriot of this author.
  - In 2010 he published a short sketch called Dozens of Cousins, but his most recent full-length play is about a former chancellor named Vilem Rieger.
  - He has also written experimental concrete poems which he calls "anticodes." In one play, he wrote about a dissident named Leopold Nettles who is driven to distraction by constant state surveillance.
  - This author of the essay "The Power of the Powerless" also wrote a play in which, rather than meeting Kalabis, the protagonist learns to speak in bureaucratic buzzwords, eventually becoming head of the Liquidation Committee.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of Largo Desolato and The Garden Party. [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Vaclav Havel
  - In one work by this author, the student Marguerite boasts that she's read the books Ontology of the Human Self, Phenomenology of Responsibility, and Love and Nothingness - all written by a professor who wears only a dressing gown as he sits next to her on the sofa. [PWR]
  - In another work, the wizard Fistula smells like cheese and is revealed to be an agent of the Director at the "witches sabbath party" in the final scene, mocking the black magic used by this author's version of Doctor Faust. [PWR]
  - In addition to writing about the (*) neurotic Leopold Nettles, he described the end of Chancellor Rieger's career in civil service in a more recent play.
  - He created the artificial language Ptydepe in his play The Memorandum, and this author of Largo Desolato more notably wrote about a man who plays chess against himself and loses his identity after leaving to meet Mr.
  - Kalabis at the title event.
  - FTP, name this dramatist of Leaving and The Garden Party, who was a politician in the Czech Republic.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This person's prison writings were collected in Letters to Olga. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    Name this writer and dissident who critiqued one country's bureaucracy in works like Memorandum and Largo Desolato. This member of Charter 77 later led a political movement named Civic Forum.
  Part 2 (ans: Prague Spring [or Prazske jaro; or Prazska jar):
    Havel participated in this event which saw attempts to introduce "Socialism with a human face" in Czechoslovakia suppressed by military intervention by the Warsaw pact followed by a period of "normalisation"
  Part 3 (ans: "The Power of the Powerless" [or "Moc bezmocnych"]):
    Havel authored this 1978 essay describing how citizens in "post-totalitarian" states must "live within a lie" even if they do not accept it, giving the example of a greengrocer who displays a sign only out of fear.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This language was used to write the collection Beyond Life and the poem "The Vagabond Sings," published after its author Julio Baghy was imprisoned in Siberia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Esperanto):
    Name this language into which The Infant Race author William Auld translated Robert Burns' poetry. Edmond Privat used this constructed language to write a biography of its creator, L. L. Zamenhof.
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav Havel (the second play is The Garden Party)):
    A man struggles to parse an office note written in the fictional language Ptydepe ("puh-TYE-duh-pee") in this author's play The Memorandum. Members of the Liquidation Office speak a vapid language in another play by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: wombat):
    While Ptydepe's shortest word is the two-letter "gh" meaning "whatever," its longest word, clocking in at 319 letters, is for this animal.

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This politician's widespread forgiveness of criminals led to a tripling of crime in his country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    Name this politician and author who served as the last prime minister of his country after the Velvet Divorce. He criticized Czechoslovak communism in plays such as The Garden Party.
  Part 2 (ans: Prague Spring):
    Many of Havel's plays were blacklisted after he participated in this event. This period of liberalization ended with Warsaw Pact tanks entering the capital of Czechoslovakia.
  Part 3 (ans: Civic Forum [or Obcanske forum, or OF]):
    Vaclav Havel founded this party to unite dissidents during the Velvet Divorce. Charter 77 evolved into this party which won the first democratic elections in Czechoslovakia.

[B4] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: One of these groups took its name from the psychiatric diagnosis exempting young men from compulsory military service, DG 307. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rock bands [or underground rock bands; or alternative rock bands; or psychedelic rock bands; prompt on bands or music groups by asking, "In what genre did they perform?"]):
    Name these groups. The dissident Mejla ("MAIL-uh") Hlavsa founded one of these groups in Czechoslovakia, popular among so-called manicky ("maan-ITCH-key").
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    This fan of Hlavsa's band, The Plastic People of the Universe, helped draft Charter 77 after the band's arrest. This politician later succeeded Gustav Husak as president.
  Part 3 (ans: velvet [or The Velvet Underground; or Velvet Revolution; or Velvet Divorce]):
    Havel claimed he was inspired to run for president by the music of a band named for this material, fronted by Lou Reed. Czechoslovakia's peaceful 1989 revolution and 1992 "divorce" were also named for this fabric.

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about intersections between computer science and European literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Name of the Rose [or Il Nome della rosa]):
    William of Baskerville applies a depth-first search to traverse a labyrinth in this Umberto Eco mystery set in the 14th century.
  Part 2 (ans: The Memorandum [or The Memo; or Vyrozumeni] (by Vaclav Havel)):
    The author of this play applied the concept of Shannon entropy, which he learned from his computer scientist brother, to create its "rational" language of Ptydepe. It follows Josef Gross, an employee of a large bureaucracy.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Perec):
    The "knight's tour" problem, a common challenge in computer science, was used to structure this French author's 1978 novel Life: A User's Manual.

[B6] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: When performing her song "Macorina," this singer would lock eyes with a woman in the crowd and act out a lyric of being aroused by a touch between the legs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chavela Vargas [or Chavela Vargas; or Maria Isabel Anita Carmen de Jesus Vargas Lizano]):
    Name this Costa Rican-born folk singer who became a lesbian icon in Mexico. This singer was known for sullen-voiced renditions of the ranchera anthem "La Llorona" ("yo-RO-na") and male love songs like "Paloma Negra."
  Part 2 (ans: mariachi):
    Chavela exhibited her androgyny by wearing masculine attire, like either a red poncho or the charro outfit typical of performers in this folk genre, whose namesake ensembles typically include vihuela and guitarron.
  Part 3 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]):
    This country's folk singer Mercedes Sosa once asked her Mexican fans to place a rose for her on Chavela's tomb. One of Latin America's most popular rock songs is "De Musica Ligera" ("lee-HAY-ra") by this country's band Soda Stereo.

[B7] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Answer the following about Wisconsin serial killers, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jeffrey Dahmer):
    In a 2022 Netflix series, Evan Peters portrayed this serial killer who terrorized Milwaukee in the early 1990s. Also in 2022, eBay banned the sale of disturbing Halloween costumes resembling this man.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Harris):
    Ed Gein, a murderer and body snatcher who lived in Plainfield, Wisconsin, was one of the inspirations for the serial killer "Buffalo Bill" in this author's novel The Silence of the Lambs.
  Part 3 (ans: Ellis [or Walter Ellis; or Havelock Ellis]):
    Walter, a Milwaukee strangler with this surname, evaded police attention for years after dodging a DNA sample in prison. A British researcher with this surname challenged sexual taboos in the seven-tome Studies in the Psychology of Sex.

[B8] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A protest in Hviezdoslav ("hv'YAYZ-daw-slahv") Square in this city occurred on the same day as another seeking the release of Jan Carnogursky ("yahn char-naw-GOOR-skee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bratislava [or Pressburg or Pozsony]):
    Name this city where the political movement Public Against Violence was founded with members like Milan Knazko ("k'NYAHZH-kaw") and Vladimir Meciar ("MAY-ch'yar") as a counterpart to another city's Civic Forum.
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav Havel ("VAHT-slahv HAH-vel")):
    The activism of Bratislava's Public Against Violence and Prague's Civic Forum helped bring about the end of Czechoslovakia's Communist regime and the election of this Czech writer as the country's first president.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Smid ("shmeed")):
    Drahomira Drazska ("drah-ho-MEE-rah DRAHZH-skah") invented the story of this fake Czech student's death during a protest in Prague. Radio Free Europe broadcast his death as a true story, rallying support for the anti-communist cause.

[B9] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A prostitute gives birth to a hideous daughter named for this concept while interned by the Japanese army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beauty [or Beauty is a Wound; or On Beauty] (On Beauty is by Zadie Smith.)):
    Name this concept that "is a wound" in the title of an Eka Kurniawan novel. This concept also titles a 2005 retelling of Howard's End centered on the Belsey and Kipps families.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Indonesia (Max Havelaar is by Multatuli.)):
    Eka Kurniawan is an author from this country, also the home of Pramoedya Ananta Toer. The novel Max Havelaar criticized colonial extraction in this modern day country.
  Part 3 (ans: a tiger [or Man Tiger]):
    A crime novel by Kurniawan follows a boy who has one of these animals living inside him, driving him to commit murder. The title character of Life of Pi shares a lifeboat with one of these animals named Richard Parker.

[B10] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, members of the Pludek family repeatedly use a series of nonsensical proverbs like "lentils are lentils and oats are oats" and "Not even a hag would go in the woods without a clamp!." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    Name this playwright who often satirized bureaucracy in his plays like The Memorandum and The Garden Party.
  Part 2 (ans: Czech):
    Havel wrote in this European language also used by Bohumil Hrabal and Milan Kundera.
  Part 3 (ans: (constructed or fictional) languages):
    The plot of Havel's The Memorandum revolves around the creation of a constructed one of these things called Ptydepe for beucractic use. Other fictional examples of these things include Quenya and Lapine.

[B11] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Near this play's end, the central character gives a speech urging Maria to "not lose your hope, your love of life and your trust in people." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Memorandum [or Vyrozumeni; or The Memo]):
    Name this Czech play in which Josef Gross cannot read a note because it is written in the "strictly scientific" language Ptydepe ("PTDP") that has a grammar of "maximum rationality," despite him later incorrectly calling a situation a "hutput zexdohyt."
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav ("VAHTS-lahv") Havel):
    This playwright satirized bureaucracy in The Memorandum. Hugo Pludek attends the title event in search of Mr. Kalabis in his play The Garden Party.
  Part 3 (ans: Ferdinand Vanek [accept either underlined portion]):
    Havel created this thinly-veiled autobiographical character who is forced to work at a brewery and is offered the task of writing reports for the secret police in the play Audience, the first of four plays Havel wrote about this man.

[B12] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A clerk and a secretary from this department get into an argument about whether Large Dance Floor A is actually smaller than Small Dance Floor C. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Liquidation Office [or Likvidacniho]):
    Name this government department. Hugo Pludek gains control of it and pits it against the Inauguration Service, at the end of the play in which it appears.
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    The Liquidation Office appears in The Garden Party, a play by this Czech playwright of The Memorandum, who later became the first president of the independent Czech Republic in 1993.
  Part 3 (ans: Josef Skvorecky):
    This Czech author and his wife published works by dissident Czech writers through their company 68 Publishers, which they formed in Canada. Danny Smiricky observes the transfer of control of Bohemia from the Nazis to the Soviets in his novel The Cowards.

[B13] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A revolution described by this adjective began after students gathered to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Jan Opletal's death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Velvet [or Velvet Revolution; or Velvet Divorce]):
    Give this adjective which describes a 1989 revolution that led to the fall of the communist regime of Gustav Husak, as well a "divorce" that led the dissolution of Czechoslovakia.
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    This playwright, one of the original signatories of Charter 77, became president of Czechoslovakia following the Velvet Revolution and presided over the Velvet Divorce.
  Part 3 (ans: jingling keys [accept similar answers]):
    During the Velvet Revolution, protesters often performed this noisy action to signify the coming end of communist regime. It was commemorated in 2009 on Slovakia's €2 coin.

[B14] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This group's members included a young butcher's apprentice named Mejla Hlavsa, and they were found of doing things like sacrificing a live chicken during the playing of "Cosmic Symphony". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Plastic People of the Universe [prompt on "PPU"]):
    Identify this rock band whose arrest in 1976 partially inspired the issuance of Charter 77.
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    One of the founding members of Charter 77 was this future president of Czechoslovakia who also wrote plays like The Garden Party.
  Part 3 (ans: samizdat literature):
    Many of Havel's writings were of this type, which were generally carbon copies of typewritten manuscripts that had been banned by the government. The term for this type of literature comes from the Russian for "self-publishing".

[B15] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play begins with the main character playing chess with himself before his father notes that the time is already twelve. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Garden Party [or Zahradni slavnost]):
    The parents of Hugo Pludek set up a meeting with the influential Mr. Kalabis in this play, only to find out that he can't come because of the title event at the Liquidation Office, forcing Hugo to go to it.
  Part 2 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    The Garden Party was written by this Absurdist Czech playwright, who also invented the imaginary language Ptydepe, which appears on a note given to Josef Gross in his The Memorandum.
  Part 3 (ans: Goethe's Faust):
    Havel's Temptation draws heavily from this two-part play, whose title character makes a deal with Mephistopheles and pursues a tragic romance with Gretchen.

[B16] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In one incident in this novel, Saidyah runs at a line of troops in order to kill himself after his father's tiger-defeating buffalo is taken away. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Havelaar):
    Name this 1860 novel in which Batavus Drystubble is handed a manuscript about colonial abuses in Indonesia, but Slimering refuses to reign in army violence or the corruption of local leaders such as Radhen Adhipatti.
  Part 2 (ans: Pramoedya Ananta Toer):
    This later author labeled Multatuli's Max Havelaar "the book that killed colonialism." This author of The King, the Witch, and the Priest wrote This Earth of Mankind and other novels in Indonesia's most noted tetralogy, the Buru quartet.
  Part 3 (ans: coffee):
    Plantations growing this substance are central to Max Havelaar, and it is imported by Drystubble. Belinda is drinking this beverage during the title event of The Rape of the Lock.

[B17] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: During this leader's term, his country experienced the 'Hyphen War,' a debate over whether to spell the country's name with a hyphen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    Identify this playwright-turned-politician, one of the original creators of Charter 77, who led his country during the 'Velvet Divorce.'
  Part 2 (ans: Czechoslovakia (do not accept "Czech Republic" or "Slovakia")):
    Havel was the last president of this Eastern European country, which split in two in 1993. Its previous leaders included Tomas Masaryk and Alexander Dubcek.
  Part 3 (ans: Tallinn and Vilnius):
    The Velvet Revolution was foreshadowed further north in the 1989 'Chain of Freedom' Demonstration, in which protesters formed a 600-km-long chain connecting these two cities. Name both.

[B18] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: He wrote of Josef Gross's attempts to get the title document translated in The Memorandum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    Name this playwright who wrote about Hugo Pludek's encounters with members of the Liquidation Office in The Garden Party.
  Part 2 (ans: Czechoslovakia):
    Havel wrote most of his works in this nation, and served as its final president, before it split into two different nations in 1993.
  Part 3 (ans: Rock 'n' Roll):
    A certain Czech-born playwright reflected the political turmoils of Czechoslovakia from the 60's through the 90's in this play about the Velvet Underground-loving activist Jan and his communist Cambridge professor Max.

[B19] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This man zoomed in on a poor greengrocer's decision to hang or not hang a sign in his window that he doesn't agree with in his essay The Power of the Powerless. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vaclav Havel):
    Name this thinker who opened that essay with the sentence "A specter is haunting Eastern Europe - the specter of what in the West is called dissent." He also wrote Living in Truth and "Anti-Political Politics."
  Part 2 (ans: "Workers of the world, unite!" [or "Working men of all countries, unite!" or "Proletarians of the world, unite!"; or "Proletarier aller Lander vereinigt euch!"; be lenient about translation]):
    In Havel's The Power of the Powerless, the shop sign has this socialist slogan, the concluding sentence of The Communist Manifesto, on it. This phrase follows "They have nothing to lose but their chains; they have a world to win."
  Part 3 (ans: Jan Patocka):
    This other Communist-era Czech intellectual was a Husserlian phenomenologist who died after police interrogations in 1977. His Heretical Essays in the History of Philosophy were interpreted in Jacques Derrida's The Gift of Death.
