=== STOCK CLUES: Pierre Corneille ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 29 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 32 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Pierre Corneille ("cor-NAY")
  - After discussing the "neuroscience of Hamlet," Angus Fletcher's Wonderworks reports how audience members chanted along to a soliloquy written by this author and originally delivered by the mononymous actor Montdory; that soliloquy begins "My father or my betrothed?
  - Love or honor?" This author adapted a play by Juan Ruiz de Alarcon into a farce in which Dorante pretends to be a military hero to court Clarice, whose name he stupidly mixes up with her friend Lucerne.
  - This author of The Liar wrote a play in which the title character kills (*) Don Gomes in a duel before also besting Don Rodrigo for the hand of Chimene . [PWR]
  - This author famously disregarded the classical unities and upset Cardinal Richelieu in that play, in which the title exiled Spanish soldier fights the Moors.
  - For 10 points, name this 17th-century French playwright who wrote the tragicomedy Le Cid. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 MUSES III (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Pierre Corneille (The play in the first line is Melite.)
  - In an early comedy by this author, the protagonist suffers delusions of hell after forging love letters in order to prevent the marriage of his beloved and his friend Tircis. [PWR]
  - A comedy by this author ends with a monologue calling theatre "a fief whose income is good" as two characters look on at a group of actors divvying up money. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of a play by this author accidentally confesses his feelings for his true love to the princess (+) Rosine before being reprimanded by his true love and then killed by Prince Florilame. [PWR]
  - The name of the main character switches to Calisto and Theogenes between acts in a 2002 adaptation of one of this author's plays by Tony Kushner. [PWR]
  - That comedy ends with a cave-inhabiting (*) magician revealing that characters such as Clindor and Isabelle were actually just actors in a play-within-a-play. [PWR]
  - This author of The Comic Illusion briefly withdrew from public life after Cardinal Richelieu said that one of his plays too strongly violated the Aristotelian unities.
  - For 10 points, name this French playwright of Le Cid. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Pierre Corneille ("cor-NAY")
  - In a play by this author, a man believes that he is watching the murder of his prodigal son, but finds out that his son is acting in a play. [PWR]
  - That play, which is framed as a vision conjured by a cave-dwelling magician, was adapted by Tony Kushner in 2002. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, the title character is told that "He who can outlive / His father's honour's an unworthy son" as he confronts a man who insulted his father for using intrigue to become the royal tutor. [PWR]
  - That play was targeted in a (*) pamphlet campaign that led Jean Chapelain  to condemn this author of The Comic Illusion for violating the three unities.
  - He wrote a tragicomedy about a knight who kills Don Gomes, the father of his lover Chimene , then reconciles with her after fighting off a Moorish invasion.
  - For 10 points, name this French playwright of Le Cid. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Pierre Corneille
  - This author created a character who is congratulated on the tranquility of her soul after a man dies, because that man can no longer charm anyone's heart. [PWR]
  - In another work by this author, Geronte fails to arrange a marriage for his son after the names of Clarice and Lucrece are mixed up by the title character, Dorante. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a work in which Felix and Pauline discourage the title character from (*) converting to Christianity but also convert after the title Armenian nobleman is martyred. [PWR]
  - The Comte de Gormas insults Diegue to start the conflict in another work by this author of The Liar and Polyeucte.
  - In order to marry Chimene, the title character of this author's most famous work must duel her champion and fight the moors.
  - For 10 points, name this 17th century French playwright of Le Cid. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Pierre Corneille
  - At the end of one of this man's plays, a character is shocked to see his son killed, only to learn that his son has become an actor and that he has actually been watching a play.
  - In that work, the magician Alcandre supplies a device that allows Pridamant to view the actions of his son Clindor from afar; that play was adapted into English by Tony Kushner.
  - This author of The Comic Illusion produced a verse translation of The Imitation of Christ and wrote Three Discourses on Dramatic Poetry, in which he argued against an unthinking adherence to the Aristotelian unities, prompted by Cardinal Richelieu's plan to shatter the popularity of his most famous work.
  - In that play, a champion carrying a bloody sword informs Chimene that her lover Don Rodrigue, the title Moor-fighting hero, had spared him.
  - For 10 points, name this French playwright and rival of Jean Racine who wrote Le Cid. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's novels includes the Map of Tendre, which shows three paths to love flowing from the Dangerous Sea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Madeleine de Scudery [or Mademoiselle de Scudery]):
    Name this member of the precieuses literary movement who wrote the massive novels Clelie and Artamene, the latter of which was originally attributed to her brother Georges.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Cid(by Pierre Corneille)):
    Georges de Scudery gained favor with Cardinal Richelieu by criticizing this play during a heated "quarrel" over the fact that this play did not respect the classical unities.
  Part 3 (ans: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]):
    This playwright satirized the preceiuses in his play Les Precieuses ridicules, or The Affected Ladies. He also wrote The Imaginary Invalid.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In 2024, Ronald Puppo published the first full English translation of a poem in this language depicting the fall of Atlantis, which inspired one composer's long-unfinished "scenic cantata." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catalan [or catala; accept Valencian] (The poet is Jacint Verdaguer and the playwright is Angel Guimera. The Garden of Seven Twilights is by Miquel de Palol.)):
    Name this language used to write the Decameron-inspired novel The Garden of Seven Twilights. This language's 19th-century Renaissance included the author of the play Martha of the Lowlands, the basis for an opera by Eugen d'Albert.
  Part 2 (ans: life [or vida; accept The Brief Life or Life is Short or La vida breve or Life is a Dream or La vida es sueno]):
    Though he never completed Atlantida, Manuel de Falla's breakthrough work was an opera titled for this noun. This is the first noun in the title of a Calderon de la Barca play in which Segismundo is locked in a tower.
  Part 3 (ans: Pierre Corneille (The play is L'Illusion Comique.)):
    Calderon's play The Great Theater of the World, for which De Falla wrote incidental music, resembles a meta-theatrical play by this author that Richard Wilbur translated as The Theatre Of Illusion.

[B3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Georges de Scudery participated in the "war of pamphlets," which inflamed a scandal involving this play and its author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Cid [or The Cid] (The play is by Pierre Corneille.)):
    Name this play, which was accused by Cardinal Richelieu's French Academy of violating the three unities of time, place, and action. Its title character reconciles with his love, Chimene [shee-men], after fighting off an army.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean Racine [or Jean-Baptiste Racine]):
    In contrast to Corneille, David G. Muller praised this other author for producing "examples of neoclassical perfection," such as his tragedies Andromaque and Phedre.
  Part 3 (ans: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]):
    With Philippe Quinault and this other author, Corneille collaborated on the comedy Psyche. This author collapsed and died after finishing a performance where he played his character Argan, the title Imaginary Invalid.

[B4] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of the play, Hippolyte tells this character that he's leaving the court to look for his father, but inadvertently reveals his love for Aricie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Theramene [or Theramenes; accept Recit de Theramene]):
    Name this character whose monologue at the end of Phedre vividly describes the sea monster attack that killed Hippolyte. Like Aricie, he was one of the characters that Racine added to the versions of Seneca and Euripides.
  Part 2 (ans: seventeenth century [or 1600s]):
    Jean Racine's Phedre was written during this "Classical" century of French literature, whose other leading lights included poets like Francois de Malherbe and playwrights like Moliere.
  Part 3 (ans: Pierre Corneille [cor-NAY] (The other play is Le Cid.)):
    This other playwright was commissioned to write Titus et Berenice in competition with Racine's Berenice. He sparked a literary furor by violating the three unities and including a happy ending in a 1637 tragedy.

[B5] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a namesake work, this character's daughters marry cowardly princes who abuse them, then abandon them in a forest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: El Cid):
    Identify this character who serves Alfonso VI and is the subject of the oldest extant Castilian epic.
  Part 2 (ans: Pierre Corneille):
    This French dramatist wrote a controversial, but highly successful adaptation of the El Cid story that breaks the classical unities. They also wrote a play about a conspiracy to kill Augustus Caesar, Cinna.
  Part 3 (ans: Roland [or "Orlando"]):
    The Poem of the Cid borrows plot points and styles from an earlier French epic titled for this hero, who wields the sword Durandal and blows the horn Oliphant. This character is the titular subject of Italian epics about him "furioso" and "innamorato".

[B6] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this author's only comedy, the magician Alcandre shows Pridamant the exploits of his son Clindor and his lover Isabel using a device in a cave. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pierre Corneille):
    Name this author The Illusion of Theater who wrote about a conflicted Roman advisor tasked with assassinating Augustus in his tragedy Cinna.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Cid [or El Cid]):
    Corneille is best known a play about a legendary Spanish hero who defends his country from a Moorish invasion. Name either the play or the hero on whom it is based.
  Part 3 (ans: French [or Francais]):
    Cornielle wrote in this language, which was also used by his contemporaries Moliere and Jean Racine.

[B7] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Tony Kushner has produced adaptations of many plays by other writers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pierre Corneille):
    Kushner's play The Illusion, in which Pridamant seeks information about his distant son, was based on this author's play L'Illusion Comique . He caused a stir in the French theater world with his play Le Cid .
  Part 2 (ans: The Dybbuk , or Between Two Worlds):
    Kushner produced a version of his play, originally by S. Ansky, in which Khonen sacrifices himself and returns to life as an evil spirit out of vengeful love for Leah.

[B8] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man claims that "To he who avenges a father, nothing is impossible" - even though getting revenge for his father involves killing his lover's dad Don Gormas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Cid [or el Cid or le Cid or Rodrigue or Rodrigo]):
    Name this Moor-fighting Castilian hero from a medieval Spanish lay. This exiled knight duels Don Sanche over his love Chimene.
  Part 2 (ans: Pierre Corneille [prompt on just "Corneille"]):
    This French dramatist adapted a Spanish epic to create the play Le Cid. He also wrote about the title character converting Pauline and Felix to Christianity in Polyeucte.
  Part 3 (ans: Carrion princes):
    In The Lay of the Cid, the Cid marries his daughters to these princes, then shows them up when he kills a lion which they are scared of. They get revenge by tying his daughters to trees, so he beats them up.

[B9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Upon seeing a bloody sword, this character's lover breaks down and confesses her love for him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Don Rodrigue [or Le Cid; do not accept or prompt on "El Cid"]):
    Name this character who kills his lover Chimene's father Don Gormas in a duel. In retaliation, Chimene forces him to duel against Don Sanche, but he spares Don Sanche's life.
  Part 2 (ans: Pierre Corneille ("cor-NAY")):
    Don Rodrigue receives the honorary title "Le Cid" in this French tragedian's play of that name. This playwright had a public dispute with Cardinal Richelieu over the play despite the Cardinal's assistance in his rise.
  Part 3 (ans: Spain [or Espana]):
    Le Cid is based on a play by Guillen ("gee-YEN") de Castro, a playwright from this nation. The foremost playwrights from this nation's Golden Age were Lope de Vega and Pedro Calderon de la Barca.

[B10] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Pridamant is stricken with grief after witnessing the supposed murder of his son Clindor, but soon finds Clindor, Isabella, and the rest of the play's cast counting out money. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Illusion [or The Comic Illusion; or L'illusion comique]):
    Name this complex, meta-theatrical play in which the magician Alcindor offers a defense of the noble profession of an actor.
  Part 2 (ans: Pierre Corneille):
    In L'illusion comique, this French dramatist made a mockery of the classical unities that he had so closely followed in plays such as Polyeucte and Le cid.
  Part 3 (ans: Quarrel of the Ancients and Moderns [or querelle des Anciens et des Modernes; accept any similar answer that contains both the words Ancient and Modern]):
    Corneille began a three-year self-imposed creative silence after his play Le Cid was politicized in this debate, which rocked the French Academy in the seventeenth century. This conflict was waged between authors like Nicolas Boileau, who urged strict adherence to the classical unities, and genre-establishing writers such as Pierre de Marivaux, and was satirized by Jonathan Swift as a literal battle between actual books.

[B11] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Don Diegue is slapped by the Count de Gormas after receiving an honor from the king which the younger Count covets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Cid [or The Cid; Do NOT Accept El Cid]):
    Name this drama in which Don Rodrigue and Chimene are members of quarrelling families. Rodrigue avenges his father Diegue by killing Gormas, but spares Chimene's champion. They ultimately marry and Rodrigue sets off to become the titular character.
  Part 2 (ans: Pierre Corneille):
    This French playwright authored Le Cid, and his other works include Horace, which he dedicated to Cardinal Richelieu, The Liar, and the story of an Armenian nobleman martyred for his conversion to Christianity, Polyeucte.
  Part 3 (ans: classical unities or the [3 Aristotelian unities]):
    Pierre Corneille's Le Cid was criticized for not following this convention, which states that plays should have one main action, should be set in a single place, and should take place over the course of less than a day. They are sometimes named for Aristotle, who outlined them in Poetics.
