=== STOCK CLUES: Jules Verne ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Answer: Jules Verne
  - This author wrote a novel in which a fifteen-year-old boy becomes the captain of the Pilgrim after the entire crew is killed on a whale hunt. [PWR]
  - Another of his nautical novels is narrated by Jeorling, who is returning to America from the Kerguelen Islands aboard the Halbrane. [PWR]
  - That novel is a sort of sequel to Poe's Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym.
  - In a sequel to one of his own works, Cyrus (*) Smith and four other Americans are stranded on an island which turns out to be the hideout of a man whose real name is Prince Dakkar. [PWR]
  - This author of The Sphinx of the Ice Fields and The Mysterious Island also wrote a novel in which a message from Arne Saknussemm is discovered by Axel and Otto Lidenbrock, telling them to descend into an Icelandic glacier.
  - For 10 points, name this pioneer of science fiction who wrote Journey to the Center of the Earth. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a scene from a partly animated Czech film, this character knocks a mouse off her head after it builds a campfire in her hair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alice [or Alice in Wonderland] (The lead-in refers to Jan Svankmajer's Alice.)):
    Name this literary character who, in a Disney film, chases a white rabbit down a rabbit hole.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Verne (The second film is A Trip to the Moon, directed by Georges Melies.)):
    Czech animator Karel Zeman's film Invention for Destruction was inspired by a novel by this author. A much earlier film inspired by this author used stop-motion to depict a rocket hitting the eye of the Man in the Moon.
  Part 3 (ans: Fantastic Planet [or La Planete sauvage or Divoka planeta]):
    This 1973 animated film directed by Rene Laloux was a co-production between Czechoslovakia and France. In this film, the gigantic blue Draags bring Om humans as pets to Ygam, the title location.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In his first fictional appearance, Baron Munchausen accomplishes this feat twice: once to retrieve his silver hatchet, and again when his ship is caught in a forceful hurricane. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: traveling to the moon [accept any answer indicating reaching the moon; prompt on space travel or equivalents]):
    Name this accomplishment which, in a satirical novel, Cyrano de Bergerac attempts by strapping himself with bottles of dew.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Verne [or Jules Cornelius Verne]):
    In a novel by this author, the Baltimore Gun Club builds a giant rifle to shoot themselves to the moon. This French science fiction author wrote 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Laputa):
    Though there was no knowledge of their existence at the time, Gulliver observes that astronomers from this kingdom have discovered two moons of Mars. This floating kingdom terrorizes Balnibarbi by dropping rocks.

[B3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Jeorling finds this character's body at the magnetically charged Ice Sphinx in An Antarctic Mystery, which is a response to a novel titled for this character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Gordon Pym [or Arthur Gordon Pym; accept The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket]):
    Name this character who journeys to the South Pole with Dirk Peters after natives kill the rest of the crew of the Jane Guy.
  Part 2 (ans: "Tekeli-li"):
    The native islanders in The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym cry out this mysterious phrase whenever they encounter the color white, which is alien to them. Pym analogizes the screams of gigantic white birds to this sound during his encounter with a cataract of fog.
  Part 3 (ans: Jules Verne [or Jules Gabriel Verne]):
    This author responded to The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym with An Antarctic Mystery. One of Poe's hoaxes also inspired The Mysterious Island, a novel by this author of Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.

[B4] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: A contemporary of this filmmaker, Segundo de Chomon, copied one of his movies almost shot-for-shot in 1908. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Melies):
    Name this French filmmaker who included an iconic image of a bullet-shaped rocket crashing into the Man in the Moon in his silent film A Trip to the Moon.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Verne):
    Meilies's films A Trip to the Moon and The Impossible Voyage were inspired by this French science-fiction author of From the Earth to the Moon and Journey to the Center of the Earth.
  Part 3 (ans: Cinderella [accept Cinderella or the Glass Slipper or La Cenerentola; La Cenerentola is by Gioachino Rossini]):
    Melies made two films based on the story of this fairy tale character; the first, in 1899, brought to life the illustrations of Gustave Dore. Don Magnifico and the maid Angelina appear in an opera based on this fairy tale character.

[B5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Description acceptable. A newspaper printed a spiral game board to advertise this event, and sponsored a match to guess when it would end. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nellie Bly and Elizabeth Bisland's race around the world in 80 days [accept synonyms like traveling around the world or circumnavigation; prompt on race or traveling; accept Around the World in Seventy-Two Days] (Bly visited Jules Verne in Amiens during her trip.)):
    Name this goal of an 1889 event, which was the subject of Cosmopolitan reporter Elizabeth Bisland's memoir In Seven Stages. Another work about this event described a writer living in Amiens ("ah-MYEN").
  Part 2 (ans: asylum [or mental hospital; accept Ten Days in a Mad-House; prompt on hospital or Bellevue Hospital]):
    After traveling around the world in 72 days, Nellie Bly went undercover to spend "ten days in" one of these places. Dorothea Dix was an advocate for reforming these places, which included Bellevue.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Pulitzer):
    Nellie Bly worked for the New York World, a newspaper that this man bought from Jay Gould. During his term as a Democratic representative, this man used the World to help fund the construction of the Statue of Liberty.

[B6] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel, James Burbank's daughter Dy is kidnapped and taken to an island in this state. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Florida):
    Identify this state that provides the setting of Texar's Revenge, or North Against South. The Baltimore Gun club selects the fictional "Stone's Hill" in this state as the location of the Columbiad cannon in another novel by the same author.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Verne):
    Although he had never been to the American South, this French author set his novels Texar's Revenge and From the Earth to the Moon in Florida. He also wrote Journey to the Center of the Earth.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mysterious Island [or L'Ile mysterieuse]):
    Verne also showed off his sketchy knowledge of the American Civil War in this novel, in which the protagonists somehow wind up at the title South Pacific locale after escaping a POW camp in a hot air balloon.

[B7] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Alan Hollinghurst's unpublished M. Litt thesis on this author was expanded into his novel The Swimming Pool Library, in which the narrator Will places the novels of this author on his shelf alongside the diaries of his best friend. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ronald Firbank):
    Identify this early 20th century gay novelist of works like Valmouth and Concerning the Eccentricities of Cardinal Pirelli.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    The first section of Alan Hollinghurst's Booker Prize winning The Line of Beauty is set just after the reelection of Margaret Thatcher, who is also the target of assassination in a story by this author of Wolf Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Jules Verne):
    For a long time Alan Hollinghurst was the editor of the absurdly niche literary parlour game, Nemo's Almanac whose name could have many sources. One possibility isCaptain Nemo, the protagonist of this author's Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.

[B8] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man eventually marries the Indian princess Aouda, whom he had saved from the custom of burning herself on a funeral pyre for her first husband. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Phileas Fogg [or Phileas Fogg]):
    Name this man who wins a bet after realizing that he has returned to the Reform Club a day earlier than he thought.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Verne):
    This speculative fiction author of Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea detailed Phileas Fogg's journeys with Passepartout in Around the World in Eighty Days.
  Part 3 (ans: Detective Fix):
    This detective chases after Phileas Fogg, believing that Fogg recently robbed the Bank of England.

[B9] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about adolescence in French literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Le Grand Meaulnes (pronounced like moan, but be generous) [or The Wanderer; or The Lost Domain; or The End of Youth; or Big Meaulnes]):
    In this only novel by Alain-Fournier, the adolescent Augustin falls in love with Yvette de Galais at a dreamlike fete put on by her brother Franz.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Verne):
    Adolescent readers were a major audience for this author, whose series of Voyages Extraordinaires include Five Weeks in a Balloon and From the Earth to the Moon.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Bataille):
    Two adolescents have plenty of sex involving eggs and bull's testicles in this author's pornographic novel The Story of the Eye. He also wrote surrealistic works like The Solar Anus.

[B10] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character likes his shaving water at 86 degrees Fahrenheit and fires valet James Foster for bringing him water at 84 degrees. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Phileas Fogg [or Phileas Fogg]):
    Name this character who is served by the valet Passepartout and eventually marries the Indian princes Aouda. He is a member of the Reform Club.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Verne):
    Phileas Fogg is the protagonist of Around the World in Eighty Days, a novel by this French author, who also wrote about Captain Nemo in Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Inspector Fix):
    This stupid detective believes Fogg robbed the Bank of England and follows him around the world, hoping to arrest him. He drugs Passepartout in an opium den and gets punched by Fogg near the end of the novel.
