=== STOCK CLUES: Stendhal ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 24 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle; accept Stendhal syndrome]
  - The first section of W.
  - G.
  - Sebald's novel Vertigo consists of a biography of this author and discusses this author's treatise On Love, which describes the process of "crystallization." This author's autobiographical novel The Life of Henry Brulard documents his fear of falling off a horse, a fate which befalls one of this author's characters who had previously worked at a seminary in Besancon .
  - This author's travels to Florence inspired the coining of his namesake "syndrome," which occurs when encountering artworks of great beauty.
  - In one of this author's novels, a severed head is kissed before being buried in a marble cave.
  - The shooting of Madame de Renal leads to the execution of Julien Sorel in that novel by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of the novel The Red and the Black. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
  - This author illustrated the idea that beauty is "the promise of happiness" with an anecdote about Alberic admiring the smallpox scar of his mistress.
  - A photograph of the plaster cast of Metilde Dembowski's hand kept on this writer's desk is printed in the first section of W.G.
  - Sebald's Vertigo, which consists of a biography of this author.
  - While traveling with Madame Gherardi, this author wrote of the transformation undergone by tree branches left in a Salzburg salt mine, which inspired him to describe a process with stages of "Admiration," "Acknowledgement," "Hope," "Delight." This author sketched a diagram on a playing card that depicts the "crystallization" of love as a journey from Bologna to Rome.
  - This author of On Love wrote of nearly fainting in a Florence basilica, thus lending his name to a "syndrome" whose sufferers become overwhelmed by art.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose experiences in the Napoleonic Wars inspired his novel The Charterhouse of Parma. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
  - This author's essay "Maxims of Love" discusses his feelings for Metilde Dembowsky.
  - An orphan who leaves Normandy to find "what love is all about" is the title character in this man's unfinished novel Lamiel.
  - Giletti, the protector of Marietta Valsera, is killed in a scuffle in one of this man's works, in which the main character ultimately ends up as a (*) monk. [PWR]
  - He wrote a novel in which Mathilde de la Mole imitates an ancestor by burying her lover's head and decorates his tomb with marble.
  - That novel features a character who is sentenced to die after attempting to kill Madame de Renal.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of The Charterhouse of Parma and a novel about Julien Sorel, The Red and the Black. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
  - This author described seducing his lovers by reading to them from Rousseau's The New Heloise in his autobiography, which he disguised as a "novel imitating The Vicar of Wakefield." In one novel by this author, a woman bribes jury members for acquittal votes to make up for her false authorship of a slanderous letter about the protagonist.
  - In that novel by him, a carpenter's son becomes the tutor of the mayor's children, but loses his job when the mayor's adversary M.
  - Valenod uncovers his affair with the mayor's wife.
  - This author of The Life of Henry Brulard is best known for his novel about a character who seduces Mathilde de la Mole, and shoots his former mistress Mme. de Renal.
  - For 10 points, name this pseudonymous author of The Red and the Black. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A visit to the Salzburg salt mines led this author to analogize falling in love to the process of "crystallization" in On Love. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle; accept Stendhal syndrome]):
    An experience of fainting in the Basilica of Santa Croce ("KROH-chay") inspired a "syndrome" triggered by great beauty, named for what author of The Charterhouse of Parma?
  Part 2 (ans: Novalis [or Georg Philipp Friedrich Freiherr von Hardenberg] (The novel is Heinrich von Ofterdingen.)):
    This poet who promoted "magical idealism" wrote much of his work while director of the Saxony salt mines. A 13th-century Minnesinger ("MIN-uh-zing-er") goes spelunking and searches for a blue flower in a fragmentary novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Boleslaw Prus ("prooss") (The novel is The Doll.)):
    A visit to the Wieliczka ("vʼyeh-LEECH-ka") Salt Mines informed depictions of the Egyptian Labyrinth in this author's novel Pharaoh. In a Positivist novel by this author, a merchant abandons science and pines after a shallow aristocrat to enter high society.

[B2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel set in this city, a girl is thrown through a window by her father for taking a middle school placement exam, rather than resigning herself to working in his shoe shop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naples [or Napoli]):
    Name this city, the setting of a tetralogy that begins with My Brilliant Friend and ends with The Story of the Lost Child.
  Part 2 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    Long before featuring in those Elena Ferrante novels, Naples served as a primary setting for this French author's novel The Charterhouse of Parma.
  Part 3 (ans: Anita Raja or Domenico Starnone [accept either]):
    In academic and popular press, the two leading candidates for Ferrante's identity are the main Italian translator of German authors Christa Wolf and Ingeborg Bachmann, or her novelist husband who wrote Eccesso di zelo, Via Gemito, and Denti. Name either of them.

[B3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A short story by this author begins, "Having awoken, she saw-O God!-she saw a ghost that approached her bed!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleone Buonaparte; or Napoleon I ("the-first")]):
    Name this author of the Romantic novel Clisson et Eugenie. This writer supposedly declared "ah, what a novel my life has been" while writing a series of bestselling memoirs.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois-Rene de Chateaubriand {The novel is Rene}):
    In reference to the Emperor's writing, this author quipped "destiny was mute, and Napoleon should have been." This aristocrat wrote the Memoirs from Beyond the Grave and a novel in which Amelie falls in love with her brother, an outcast who leaves France to live among Native Americans in the New World.
  Part 3 (ans: Stendhal ("stan-DAHL") [or Marie-Henri Beyle] {Julian Sorel appears in The Red and the Black.}):
    Fabrice del Dongo joins Napoleon's Hundred Days campaign in The Charterhouse of Parma, a novel by this author whose admiration for Napoleon is also evident in the views expressed by this author's character Julian Sorel.

[B4] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The epigraph to the screenplay for American Gigolo is a quote about this character, and American Gigolo's protagonist is named after him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julien Sorel [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this character who courts Madame de Fervaques ("fair-VAHK") in an attempt to make Mathilde ("mah-TEELD") de la Mole jealous, and is later executed after attempting to murder Madame de Renal.
  Part 2 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    Julien Sorel is the protagonist of this author's novel The Red and the Black.
  Part 3 (ans: Queen Margot [or La Reine Margot; or Margaret of Valois; or Marguerite de Valois]):
    At the end of the novel, Mathilde kisses Julien's decapitated head, reenacting a story about this queen. This queen's nickname comes from a novel by Alexandre Dumas, pere ("doo-MAH pair").

[B5] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character by this author who was incarcerated in a tower communicates with his bird-tending lover by holding up large lettered signs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    Name this author who wrote about the social-climbing Julien Sorel's affairs with Mathilde ("mah-TEELD") de la Mole and Madame de Renal in The Red and the Black, which he failed to follow up with The Pink and the Green.
  Part 2 (ans: The Charterhouse of Parma):
    In this work by Stendhal, Fabrizio del Dongo puts on a dead hussar's uniform and gets swept up in the Battle of Waterloo before being imprisoned and falling in love with Clelia. This novel also features Gina and Count Mosca.
  Part 3 (ans: falling in love [accept equivalents]):
    In a technical treatise on this process, Stendhal metaphorically compared it to salt crystalling around a branch or traveling on a trip from Bologna to Rome.

[B6] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Amelia Sedley is forced to care for her infant child alone after George Osborne dies in this battle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Waterloo):
    Name this battle survived by Rawdon Crawley and William Dobbin in Vanity Fair. In the same novel, Joseph Sedley is seen as a coward for fleeing this battle.
  Part 2 (ans: William Makepeace Thackeray):
    Vanity Fair was written by this author, who fictionalized Andrew Robinson Stoney in his picaresque novel The Luck of Barry Lyndon.
  Part 3 (ans: Stendhal [accept Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    Fabrice Del Dongo visits the battlefield where Waterloo took place in this other author's novel The Charterhouse of Parma. He also wrote a novel centering on the life of Julien Sorel.

[B7] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The relationship between the protagonist and this character begins shortly after they find each other stealing volumes of Voltaire from a library. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mathilde de la Mole [or Mathilde de la Mole]):
    Name this daughter of a Parisian marquis, who falls in love with her family's secretary in an 1830 novel. The secretary is executed for shooting his former lover, Madame de Renal, despite this woman's desperate attempts to bribe the jury.
  Part 2 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    Julien Sorel is caught between the clerical life of an acolyte tutoring Madame de Renal's children, and his secular life with the de la Moles, in this French author's novel The Red and the Black.
  Part 3 (ans: she buries Julien's severed head after kissing it [or she kisses the buried head of Julien Sorel; prompt on either action if it doesn't mention the head]):
    At the end of The Red and the Black, Mathilde performs this action, in accordance with a legend about her distant ancestor Joseph Boniface de la Mole and Queen Margot.

[B8] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: It includes a scene where the protagonist dresses as a French hussar and enters the Battle of Waterloo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Charterhouse of Parma (or La Chartreuse de Parme)):
    Name this work which sees Clelia and the Countess Gina help Fabricio escape from prison after he kills the manager of his actress lover.
  Part 2 (ans: Stendhal (or Henri-Marie Beyle)):
    The Charterhouse of Parma is a novel by this French author of The Red and the Black.
  Part 3 (ans: Armance):
    In this novel, Stendhal's first, Octave de Malivert falls in love with the title character before leaving to go fight for Greek independence.

[B9] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The novel this character appears in was put on the Catholic Church's Index of banned books more than a century after its publication. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julien Sorel):
    Identify this protagonist from The Red and the Black, who is sentenced to the guillotine after shooting Madam de Renal
  Part 2 (ans: Stendhal (or Marie-Henri Beyle)):
    The Red and the Black is a novel by this author who is the namesake of an eponymous syndrome that affects people overwhelmed by the beauty of art.
  Part 3 (ans: The Charterhouse of Parma):
    This other Stendhal novel tells of Fabrice del Dongo, who escapes from prison in the guise of a hussar before stumbling into the Battle of Waterloo

[B10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Terrence McNally wrote two short plays about this author's namesake "syndrome," by which people collapse upon being overwhelmed by art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    Name this author who wrote about Fabrice del Dongo's imprisonment during and after the Napoleonic wars in The Charterhouse of Parma.
  Part 2 (ans: red represents the French army AND black represents the Catholic church [prompt on answers such as the army and the clergy which do not specify which color is which]):
    In Stendhal's The Red and the Black, Julien Sorel has to choose between two institutions symbolized by the title colors. Specify which institution is symbolized by each color.
  Part 3 (ans: she kisses his severed head on the brow [prompt on kissing]):
    At the end of The Red and the Black, Mathilde does this to a specific part of Julien Sorel's dead body.

[B11] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the seminary director Monsieur Pirard resigns because of his disgust for church politics. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Red and the Black [or Le Rouge et le Noir]):
    Name this novel in which Julien Sorel is executed for shooting Madame de Renal.
  Part 2 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    The Red and the Black is by this author, who also wrote the excellently named novella Vanina Vanini.
  Part 3 (ans: Mathilde de la Mole [prompt on "de la Mole"]):
    This woman becomes engaged to Monsieur de Croisenois despite her love for Julien Sorel. Julien makes her jealous by pretending to court Madame de Fervaques.

[B12] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is made jealous by the protagonist's attentions to Madame de Fervaques. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mathilde de la Mole [prompt on de la Mole]):
    Name this daughter of a marquis who becomes engaged to Monsieur de Croisenois despite her affections for Julien Sorel.
  Part 2 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    Mathilde de la Mole appears in The Red and the Black, a novel by this French author.
  Part 3 (ans: Fabrice del Dongo [or Fabrice del Dongo; or Fabrizio del Dongo; or Fabrizio del Dongo]):
    This protagonist of Stendhal's The Charterhouse of Parma travels to Naples under the patronage of Count Mosca and his aunt, Gina.

[B13] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Count Francesco toasts the news of the death of his sons in Salamance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Cenci):
    Name this verse drama by Percy Bysshe Shelley, fictionalizing the murderous history of the title 16th century Italian family.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonin (Marie Joseph) Artaud):
    This French playwright and theorist directed a notorious 1935 production of The Cenci, using it as an example of his concept of the "Theater of Cruelty", which he expounded upon in The Theatre and Its Double.
  Part 3 (ans: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]):
    The Cenci murder also inspired an 1837 short story by this Frenchman who wrote about Julien Sorel in The Red and the Black.
