=== STOCK CLUES: Partitas ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 22 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: J. S. Bach [or Johann Sebastian Bach] (Milstein and Szeryng recorded Bach's Sonatas and Partitas. Casals recorded his six Cello Suites.)
  - A collection of pieces by this composer transcribed "for Harriet Cohen" features prominently on an "Arrangements" album recorded as part of a decade-long cycle by Angela Hewitt.
  - An Aria variata is the only full-length piece by this composer that is included on a 2018 album by Icelandic pianist Vikingur Olafsson.
  - A collection by this composer was recorded twice by both Nathan Milstein and Henryk Szeryng , who employ a "Romantic" style instead of the minimal vibrato favored today.
  - A cycle of six suites by this composer was effectively rediscovered and first recorded by Pablo Casals.
  - A pianist used markedly different tempi in 1955 and 1981 recordings of a piece by this composer that opens with a G major aria.
  - For 10 points, Canadian pianist Glenn Gould twice recorded what Baroque composer's Goldberg Variations? [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: partitas [accept chorale partitas; accept Sonatas and Partitas; accept Partita for 8 Voices; prompt on suite by asking "What's the specific title?"; anti-prompt on allemande by asking "What's the title of the whole piece?"]
  - Elliott Carter unusually used this title for the first movement of his symphony "sum fluxae pretium spei." A 1932 piece with this title ends with the lullaby "Naenia B.M.V." and was the first major success for Luigi Dallapiccola. [PWR]
  - A piece with this title includes the repeated declaration "the detail of the pattern is movement," and intersperses descriptions of geometric constructions with sections in Sacred Harp style. [PWR]
  - That 2013 piece with this title begins with the repeated statement "To the side." This term is used for J. [PWR]
  - S. [PWR]
  - Bach's only work for solo (*) flute.
  - A B-minor Bach piece in this genre includes a "Double" after each movement.
  - Caroline Shaw wrote a piece with this title "for 8 Voices." Bach arranged the "Preludio" from an E-major piece in this genre as the "Sinfonia" for Cantata 29.
  - This term was often used to mean "suite," and a D-minor Bach suite with this title ends with a massive Chaconne.
  - For 10 points, give this title of three violin solos that Bach paired with three Sonatas. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: partitas by Johann Sebastian Bach [or Bach's partitas for keyboard; or Bach's partitas for solo violin; prompt on partitas; prompt on dance suites]
  - Note to players: composer and type of piece required.
  - The key of an unpublished seventh piece from a set of these pieces can be deduced from the pattern of expanding intervals in alternating directions exhibited by the first six, which have the tonics B-flat, C, A, D, G, and E.
  - The last of those pieces in this genre by this composer includes two movements derived from an early version of the composer's sixth sonata for violin and harpsichord: a Corrente and a Tempo di Gavotta.
  - Six of these pieces for keyboard make up the first of the composer's volumes titled Clavier-Ubung (klah-VEER OO-bung).
  - In one of these pieces in B minor, each of the four movements is paired with a Double (DOO-bluh), and a Tempo di Borea is substituted for the expected gigue.
  - Another one of these pieces in D minor ends with an extensive and frequently excerpted chaconne (shah-KAWN).
  - For 10 points, name these pieces, three of which for solo violin were paired with three sonatas, by the composer of The Well-Tempered Clavier. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Reena Esmail invokes Raag Malhar to honor Meerabai in a piece based on this country's music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: India [or Bharat]):
    Name this country whose Hindustani music inspired Esmail's Vishwas for bharatanatyam ("buh-ruh-tuh-NAHT-yum") dancer and orchestra.
  Part 2 (ans: partita [accept J.S. Bach's Six Sonatas and Partitas, BWV 1001-1006]):
    Esmail uses a different raga for each movement of her work-in-progress Darshan, a violin piece in this genre. J.S. Bach included a D-minor chaconne in his second of three solo violin pieces in this genre, which he paired with three sonatas.
  Part 3 (ans: Kronos Quartet (The unnamed piece is Black Angels.)):
    Esmail arranged Dadra in Raga Bhairavi for this ensemble, which commissioned her arrangement of Amrit for its project "Fity for the Future." David Harrington founded this ensemble after listening to a piece comprised of "Thirteen Images from the Dark Land."

[B2] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: J. S. Bach wrote many pieces for solo keyboard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: French Suites OR English Suites OR Partitas [accept answers like Partitas for keyboard or Partitas for harpsichord in place of "Partitas"]):
    Bach's suites for solo keyboard are commonly grouped into several named sets. Name any two of those sets.
  Part 2 (ans: Italian Concerto [or Concerto nach Italienischen Gusto; or Concerto in the Italian Taste; or BWV 971]):
    This three-movement piece for two-manual harpsichord [emphasize] does not have orchestral accompaniment, despite its name. This F major piece was paired with a "French Overture" in the second book of Clavier-Ubung.
  Part 3 (ans: theme and variations [accept Goldberg Variations]):
    Another solo harpsichord work by Bach is a long piece in this form that begins with an "Aria" movement. That 31-movement work in this musical form is named for "Goldberg."

[B3] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify some music that Benjamin Grosvenor (GROVE-ner) performed in a piano recital I went to last month. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: suites [or dance suites; or keyboard suites; or piano suites; or partitas; or ouvertures; or ordre; accept French Suites]):
    Grosvenor led off with a 7-movement J. S. Bach work of this form in G major, the fifth in a group of 6 that were later called "French." Handel's "The Harmonious Blacksmith" is from one of these Baroque collections of dances that have an allemande (AL-uh-mond), courante (koo-RONT), and gigue (zheeg).
  Part 2 (ans: Alban Berg (ALL-bahn BAIRG)):
    He played this composer's formidable Opus 1, a nearly atonal piano sonata in one movement, "Maßig bewegt" (MESS-ish buh-VAKED). This composer used his teacher's "developing variation" technique on the sonata's opening leitmotif: a rising perfect fourth, then an augmented fourth.
  Part 3 (ans: Johannes Brahms):
    He played the last four piano pieces, Opus 119, by this German composer of four symphonies, who listed himself as the "arranger" of his Hungarian Dances for piano four-hands.

[B4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This critic tried to figure how many classical music concerts he could attend in New York for under 100 dollars in his column "Cheap Seats." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alex Ross):
    Name this classical music critic for the New Yorker who wrote about the trajectory of 20th-century music in The Rest is Noise.
  Part 2 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    An essay from Alex Ross's Listen to This describes how this Italian Baroque composer combined the descending lament figure with the chaconne (shah-KUN) form in his Lamento della ninfa. This composer also wrote the first opera in the standard repertoire, L'Orfeo (lor-FAY-oh).
  Part 3 (ans: Partitas for Solo Violin):
    Ross observes hints of that lament figure in the grueling Ciaccona (cha-KOH-na) movement in D minor from one of these solo violin pieces by J. S. Bach, which are paired with sonatas.

[B5] 2016 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Mozart's Serenade No. 10 for twelve winds and string bass is sometimes given the nickname of the "Gran" one of these compositions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: partitas):
    Name this vague term for a type of composition. One of them for solo violin ends with a monumental chaconne, and another set of six for keyboard are in keys at increasing intervals from each other.
  Part 2 (ans: transverse flute):
    Bach also wrote a solo partita for this instrument, which features prominently in the badinerie of his Orchestral Suite No. 2. Johann Joachim Quantz taught Frederick the Great this instrument, and Mozart may have adapted his second oboe concerto for this instrument because he allegedly hated writing for it.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Lucio Vivaldi):
    This composer used rapidly rising and falling scales to depict stormy waves in the first of a set of six flute concerti, La tempesta di mare. He also wrote The Four Seasons.

[B6] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The third example of a type of work in this collection takes the subject for its second movement fugue from the chorale Komm, Heiliger Geist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: J.S. Bach's Sonatas and Partitas for solo violin [or J.S. Bach's Six Violin Sonatas and Partitas; or Sei Solo - a violino senza Basso accompagnato]):
    Name this set of six works for solo violin by J.S. Bach.
  Part 2 (ans: double stop [or word forms]):
    The probable inspiration for Bach's Sonatas and Partitas is Johann Paul von Westhoff's six partitas for solo violin, which make extensive use of this technique in which two notes are played simultaneously, using two strings.
  Part 3 (ans: four):
    As this is the number of strings on a violin, it's also the maximum number of notes that can be played on different strings simultaneously, though it's ridiculously hard to do so. Common time has this many quarter-notes per measure.

[B7] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Joseph Joachim revived the playing of these pieces, and Jascha Heifetz famously performed the chaconne in d minor that ends the fourth one. The last was also transcribed by the composer for lute. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sonatas and Partitas for Solo Violin [prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this set of six pieces by J.S. Bach.
  Part 2 (ans: violoncello):
    Bach also wrote six suites for this instrument unaccompanied. Those pieces for this instrument were little known until Pablo Casals performed them after twelve years of solitary practice. Yo-Yo Ma also plays Bach on this instrument.
  Part 3 (ans: flute):
    A favorite instrument of C.P.E. Bach was this one, for which he wrote a Concerto in G Major and a Sonata in A Minor. This instrument was notably played by Jean Pierre Rampal and Johann Quantz.
