=== STOCK CLUES: Gogol ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 98 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 46 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Russia [or the Russian Empire or Rossiya or Rossiyskaya Imperiya; accept Russian Thinkers] (The unnamed authors are Leo Tolstoy, Alexander Herzen, and Vissarion Belinsky, who are all the subject of long essays in Berlin's Russian Thinkers. The second sentence refers to Belinsky's letter to Gogol.)
  - A critic from this country who quipped "Fish are born to fly, and everywhere they swim" is the subject of Aileen Kelly's The Discovery of Chance.
  - A critic from this country wrote a harsh letter that claims the public is forgiving for a bad book "but never for a pernicious one." The memoir My Past and Thoughts is by a writer from this country who coined the phrase "Genghis Khan with the telegraph." A collection of essays on this country's (*) 19th-century thinkers inspired Tom Stoppard to portray the editor of The Contemporary in The Coast of Utopia. [PWR]
  - An author from this country failed to express "one big thing" in his theory of history according to Isaiah Berlin.
  - For 10 points, "The Hedgehog and the Fox" comments on a Christian anarchist from what country who wrote Resurrection, The Kreutzer Sonata, and War and Peace? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol (the first line refers to The Gamblers; the unnamed play in the second line is Marriage)
  - A play by this author features a deck of cards called "Adelaida Ivanovna" by a character who is tricked by "the Glovs." A character claims to be the author of The Marriage of Figaro in a play by this author, who also wrote about Podkolyosin jumping out a window to avoid the title event. [PWR]
  - The declaration, "What are you laughing about?
  - You are laughing at yourselves!" appears in a play by this author that ends with all characters staying (*) frozen for a minute and a half.
  - The squires Bobchinsky and Dobchinsky appear in that play, which sees the protagonist flirt with Anton's wife and daughter.
  - Osip helps trick the Governor in that play by this author, in which members of a town offer bribes to Khlestakov.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian playwright of The Inspector General. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol]
  - At the end of a story by this author, a bard sings of a knight that cursed the descendants of his evil brother, whose gigantic body writhes under a mountain. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, the protagonist recovers from his yearslong amnesia and throws an ax at an old woman, who had earlier convinced him to decapitate a boy to receive a chest of gold buried near a red fern. [PWR]
  - This author's story "The Terrible Vengeance" appears in a collection narrated by the (*) beekeeper Rudy Panko.
  - This author's story "St.
  - John's Eve" features a witch, as does his later story "Viy" .
  - A ghost haunts the Kalinkin bridge and steals pieces of clothing in a story by this author of the collection Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka.
  - For 10 points, name this Ukrainian author of "The Overcoat." [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol [Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol]
  - In a story by this author, a man insults his future stepmother by calling her 100 years old, then cuts off her retorts by throwing mud at her.
  - A character created by this author invents a ruse to marry a farmer's daughter involving a cursed jacket that is heralded by the appearance of a pig's head.
  - At the end of a story by this author, a ghost shakes his fist at a timid watchman, having earlier haunted a person of importance who had scolded a clerk out of his office.
  - This author included "The Fair at Sorochyntsi  in the collection Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka.
  - This author wrote a story in which the copyist Akaky Akakievich obsessively saves money to buy a new garment.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of "The Overcoat." [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol] (The first story is "The Carriage." The story in the second and third sentences is "The Portrait.")
  - A story by this author ends after a hungover man who promised to host a dinner party is found by his angry guests hiding in the title vehicle. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, a man becomes a monk to purify his soul after painting a religious scene in which every figure had demonic eyes. [PWR]
  - In that story by this author, a painter abandons his style and paints for aristocrats after a bag of money is found in the frame of a cursed portrait of a moneylender. [PWR]
  - Near the end of a story by this author, a cobbler named (*) Hoffmann helps beat up an officer for dancing with the wife of a tinsmith named Schiller. [PWR]
  - This author of the collection Arabesques wrote a story in which a painter who takes opium to dream of a dark-haired prostitute is contrasted with Lieutenant Pirogov, who followed a blonde woman down the title street.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included the story "Nevsky Prospect" in his Petersburg Tales. [GIVE]

[T6] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol]
  - In a story by this author, a character paints "beauties" for a Persian shopkeeper in exchange for opium to cure his insomnia.
  - No one attends the funeral of an artist, who cuts his throat with a razor after a prostitute declines his marriage proposal, in a story by this author.
  - A story by this author ends with a policeman following a giant-fisted ghost until it confronts him.
  - A "certain clerk" from a "certain department" develops a delirious fever after being berated by a "Person of Consequence" in a story by this author.
  - The title object is wrapped in cloth and thrown off the St.
  - Isaac's Bridge in a story by this author before it is found in a loaf of bread by a barber.
  - For 10 points, name this author, whose many stories set in St. [GIVE]
  - Petersburg include "Nevsky Prospekt," "The Nose," and "The Overcoat."

[T7] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolay Vasilievich Gogol (The story in the lead-in is "Ivan Fyodorovich Shponka and his Aunt.")
  - In a story by this author, a man anxious about getting married has a dream in which a shopkeeper sells him a hot new type of fabric called "wife." A fictional version of this author gives the name "Caracas" to an inanimate object that manages to contract syphilis. [PWR]
  - This writer marries a humanoid balloon in a story titled for his "wife," by Tommaso Landolfi. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a story in which a painter buys opium from a Persian, gets high, proposes marriage to a (*) prostitute, and finally slits his throat. [PWR]
  - The dogs Meggy and Fidel are overheard gossiping in another story by this author, in which the impending accession of Isabella II inspires Poprishchkin (poe-PRISH-kin) to declare himself king of Spain.
  - For 10 points, name this Ukrainian author of fantastical stories like "Nevsky Prospect" and "Diary of a Madman." [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Russia [Accept the Russian Federation, Rossiya, Rossiyskaya Federatsiya, prompt on the Soviet Union or U.S.S.R. or Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, CCCP, or Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik] (The first clue is Belinsky's letter to Gogol which precipitated him starving himself to death.)
  - A critic wrote of this country that "mystic exaltation is not in its nature" in a letter denouncing the author of Selected Passages from Correspondence with My Friends for exalting "affectionate relations...between lords and masters." A periodical from this modern-day country whose title translates to The Contemporary published a philosophical novel in which Vera has several utopian dreams, including one about the Crystal (*) Palace.
  - A critic from this modern-day country championed the realist paintings of the Wanderers, and also advised a circle of composers that he described as a "mighty handful." The novel What Is to Be Done? is by an author from, for 10 points, what modern-day country in which nineteenth-century critics rejected the influence of Western Europe in favor of "Slavophilia"? [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol]
  - After noting that he has already read the Northern Bee, the narrator of a story by this author then proceeds to call all French people foolish and worthy of a thrashing. [PWR]
  - That narrator of a story by this author criticizes his coworkers for not going to the theater "unless one throws free tickets at their head." The narrator of one story by this man claims to be the King of Spain before being sent to an asylum; that man is (*) Poprishchin. [PWR]
  - In a different story by this man, the protagonist, who unironically enjoys copying documents, dies of a fever after being robbed of the title garment.
  - At the end of a story by this author of "Diary of a Madman," a "prominent personage" has his coat stolen by the ghost of Akaky Akakievich.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of "The Overcoat" and "The Nose." [GIVE]

[T10] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol
  - A story by this author is titled for a cursed object in which a man found 1000 gold coins to pay his rent, which mysteriously disappears from the wall at the story's end during an auction. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, a painter takes opium and slices his throat after learning that the dark-haired beauty he followed was a prostitute. [PWR]
  - Yet another story by this author of "The Portrait" ends as a watchman sees a phantom with an (*) "enormous mustache" disappear across a bridge. [PWR]
  - In one of his stories, Pirogorov  and Piskarev  part on the title street, while in another, a copyist uses his Christmas bonus to buy the services of the tailor Petrovich to repair the title garment.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author whose Petersburg Tales include "Nevsky Prospekt" and "The Overcoat". [GIVE]

[T11] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol]
  - This author burned the manuscript of the redemptive second volume of one of his novels shortly before dying of self-starvation. [PWR]
  - A play by this author ends with a "silent scene" in which a postmaster stands "like a question mark" and a pair of similarly-named squires gesticulate furiously at each other.
  - This author ended a novel's first part by addressing his country as "O Rus' " and comparing its "headlong motion" to a three-horse carriage or troika.
  - In a play by this author, cronies of a corrupt (*) mayor offer bribes to a man who they mistake for the title incognito  bureaucrat. [PWR]
  - This author of The Inspector-General created a trickster who gambles with Nozdryov  while travelling the countryside to collect the title items in a scheme to sell deceased peasants for money.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author who created Chichikov in his novel Dead Souls. [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai (Vasilievich) Gogol
  - This author wrote a scene in which a character's introduction receives the response "I've had a bite to eat too" because the character's name, "Yaichnitsa," means "omelette." That scene comes from a play by this author in which Kochkaryov's obsessive but incompetent matchmaking results in Agafya being abandoned by Podkolyosin. [PWR]
  - This author of Marriage wrote a play whose final scene features an enraged man shouting "Who are you laughing at? [PWR]
  - Laugh at yourselves!" at the audience.
  - Characters in that play by this man include a judge who keeps his hunting equipment in his courtroom named (*) Lyapkin-Tyapkin and a pair of squires named Bobchinsky and Dobchinsky, who mistake the recently-arrived Khlestakov for the title bureaucrat. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, the the title object comes to life after being found in a loaf of bread by the barber Yakovlevich.
  - For 10 points, name this Ukrainian-born author of The Inspector-General and the short story "The Nose." [GIVE]

[T13] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol]
  - In a story by this author, two friends start fighting after one of them refuses to give the other his Turkish rifle, calling him a "goose." In another of his stories, a lieutenant follows a woman home who turns out to be married, while a painter follows a woman who turns out to be a prostitute, and later commits suicide after his marriage proposal is rejected. [PWR]
  - Those events are bookended by the narrator's description of the title (*) street. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of a story by this author makes a derogatory comment about secretaries, provoking a tongue-lashing from the "person of consequence" from whom he has sought help.
  - After that protagonist dies and becomes a ghost, he steals an item of clothing from the general who had reprimanded him.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "How the Two Ivans Quarreled" and "Nevsky Prospect," who wrote about Akaky Akakievich in "The Overcoat." [GIVE]

[T14] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai (Vasilievich) Gogol
  - In the preface to one collection, this author mentions a man who pretends to be so cultured that he can no longer remember the common word for rake, but recalls it soon enough when he steps on one. [PWR]
  - In order to receive gold through enchantment, one of this author's characters picks a magical red fern blossom. [PWR]
  - In one story by this author, the devil is offended by a painter's satirical depiction of him, leading him to hide in coal sacks, along with a deacon and a (*) Cossack. [PWR]
  - In that story by him, the blacksmith Vakula attempts to woo the vain Oksana by getting her the Tsarina's slippers.
  - In another story by him, the protagonist cannot remember ritualistically slaughtering the child Ivas to cast a spell to win Ivas' sister Pidorka.
  - His first collection of stories is introduced by the talkative beekeeper Rudy Panko and includes the stories "Christmas Eve" and "St.
  - John's Eve." For 10 points, those stories reflect the Ukrainian heritage of what author of Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka? [GIVE]

[T15] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai (Vasilievich) Gogol
  - In one story by this author, a girl slashes the paw of a black cat, only to find the next morning that her stepmother has a wound on the same hand.
  - This author wrote a story that begins by claiming that "There is nothing more irritable than departments." This author wrote a story in which a philosophy student is made to chant prayers for three nights over the coffin of a witch that he killed.
  - This author's collection Evenings on a Farm near Dikinka includes the story "May Night." He wrote a story in which a ghost haunts the "Person of Consequence" whose bullying gave him a fatal fever.
  - In that story by this author of "Viy," the one-eyed tailor Petrovich makes the title item of clothing for Akaky Akakievich.
  - For 10 points, name this Ukrainian author of "The Overcoat." [GIVE]

[T16] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Gogol
  - The central character of a play by this author receives a bribe due to the mistaken belief that he is a high-ranking undercover official.
  - That play features the comic duo Bobchinsky and Dobchinsky.
  - A short story by this author consists of two parts, the first of which concerns a painter who kills himself after being rebuffed by a woman who turns out to be a prostitute.
  - In addition to Nevsky Prospekt this author wrote a novel in which Chichikov buys the title objects: the rights to deceased serfs.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Government Inspector and Dead Souls. [GIVE]

[T17] 2014 Gorilla Lit (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai [Vasilievich] Gogol
  - In a play by this author, a man asks for his valuable English mirror to be brought so he can check if he's growing grey hair, and an admiral goes on about the beautiful girls he saw when his fleet was stationed in Sicily, where they speak French. [PWR]
  - This author's bitter dialogue "Leaving the Theater After the Presentation of a New Comedy" stars the guffawing audience members at the premiere of his most famous play, which ends with its characters suddenly freezing in terror.
  - A man whose name translates to "egg" or "omelette" courts (*) Agafya in this author's play Marriage.
  - The servant Osip procures a carriage and beats a hasty retreat with his master in a play by this author, in which Bobchinsky and Dobchinsky travel to an inn with the mayor of an unnamed town.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author who wrote about Khlestakov's deception in The Inspector General. [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol
  - This author described how a young boy who forgot most of his Latin would append the syllable "-us" to the words for random farm implements in a preface narrated by a beekeeper who is named Rudy despite his gray hair.
  - This author wrote about a young man who is brutally murdered by his father for bringing loaves of bread to a starving Polish girl and her mother.
  - Winged demons appear from the corpse of a young girl to haunt the philosopher Khoma Brut in his horror story "Viy." During a visit to the lady Karolina Ivanovna, "a very important person" is haunted by the protagonist of this author's most famous story, a destitute copyist.
  - This author wrote about the father of Ostap and Andriy in a romantic portrayal of the violent Cossack life.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Taras Bulba whose masterwork is about the theft of Akaky Akakievich's fancy "Overcoat." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, Levko correctly identifies a witch from a group of drowned maidens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol]):
    Name this author of "May Night." A witch instructs Petro to decapitate his boss's son in order to obtain the treasure beneath a magical fern in this author's story "St. John's Eve," which appears in his collection Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka.
  Part 2 (ans: "Viy" ("vee") [or "The Viy"]):
    In this Gogol story, Khoma is forced to pray for three nights at the coffin of a Cossack chief's daughter, who was actually a witch. The title creature of this story is a gnome-like creature with elongated eyelids.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Overcoat" [or "The Cloak"; or "Shinyel"]):
    In this other Gogol story, the ghost of Akaky Akakievich haunts the streets of St. Petersburg after he is robbed of the title article of clothing.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Mikhail Bakhtin introduced "monologic" and "dialogic" subdivisions of this form, distinguishing stylistic agreement between authors and narrators within works in this form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: skaz):
    Name this Russian literary form first codified by Boris Eikhenbaum. This form is characterized by stories with narration and dialect reminiscent of oral literature and folk tales.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Overcoat" [or "The Cloak" or "Shinyel"; accept "How Gogol's Overcoat Was Made"]):
    Eikhenbaum first coined the concept of skaz in an essay about this Nikolai Gogol story, in which Akaky Akakievich loses the title garment.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Leskov (The novella is Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District.)):
    Walter Benjamin's essay "The Storyteller" praises the skaz stories of this author, such as "The Tale of Cross-eyed Lefty from Tula and the Steel Flea." A novella by this author analogizes Katerina Ismailova to a Shakespeare villainess.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a scene from Trumpets and Raspberries, a member of this profession is injected with three sedatives as Antonio repeatedly swaps places with him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: police officer [or police officer or cop; accept inspector or superintendent or constable or detective or sheriff or law enforcement; accept polizia or poliziotti]):
    Name this profession. In another play, a disguised man afflicted with "histrionomania" has three men in this profession sing a Pietro Gori song to explain an event previously attributed to a "raptus."
  Part 2 (ans: Dario Fo [or Dario Luigi Angelo Fo]):
    This Italian playwright satirized police incompetence in plays like Accidental Death of an Anarchist.
  Part 3 (ans: they freeze [or equivalents such as stop moving or be still; prompt on not speak or be silent or do nothing] (The Government Inspector is by Nikolai Gogol.)):
    Police are among those who often perform this metatheatrical stage instruction in many of Fo's plays. At the end of The Government Inspector, a gendarme's ("zhon-DARMʼs") announcement prompts the entire cast to perform this action.

[B4] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After being called a goose for trying to trade a sow and two sacks of oats for a gun, a man cuts down a goose-shed built by his neighbor, with whom he shares this given name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ivan [accept Ivan Yakovlevich; accept "The Tale of How Ivan Ivanovich Quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich"; accept "How the Two Ivans Quarrelled"; accept Ivan Ivanovitch; accept Ivan Nikiforovitch]):
    Name this first name shared by the two title characters of that story, whose title is often shortened to "The Squabble." In the opening of another story, a barber with this first name rejects his wife's coffee in favor of bread.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Nose" [or "Nos"]):
    The author of "The Squabble" depicted Ivan Yakovlevich giving Major Kovalyev the title object of this short story, which is earlier seen heading to Riga on a stagecoach.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    This Russian author wrote the stories "The Tale of How Ivan Ivanovich Quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich" and "The Nose."

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character destroys a stuffed owl belonging to Filipp Filippovich Preobrazhensky, whom he later threatens with a revolver. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Polygraph Polygraphovich Sharikov [accept either underlined portion; accept Sharik; reject "Polygraphovich" alone]):
    Name this character who begins a "Red Terror" on the streets of Moscow after getting a job with the Sub-Department of Pest Control.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol]):
    Polygraph Polygraphovich's silly name is an homage to this earlier Russian author, who wrote about Akaki Akakievich ("ah-KAH-kee ah-KAH-kee-uh-vitch") in "The Overcoat."
  Part 3 (ans: Andrey Bely [or Boris Nikolaevich Bugaev]):
    A bomb made from a sardine can is nicknamed "Pepp Peppovich Pepp" in Petersburg, a Symbolist novel by this Silver Age Russian author.

[B6] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This work warns an "apostle of ignorance, champion of obscurantism [and] panegyrist of Tartar morals" that he is "standing on the brink of an abyss." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Belinsky's "Letter to Gogol" [accept descriptions of an open letter from Vassarion Belinsky to Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol; prompt on "Letter to Gogol" by asking "by whom?"]):
    Identify this document that lambastes the conservative mysticism of the Selected Passages of its addressee, who died of self-starvation with leeches hanging off his nose soon after reading it.
  Part 2 (ans: being sent to Siberia [or katorga; accept descriptions mentioning Siberia; accept Sibir' in place of "Siberia"; prompt on exile, imprisonment, transportation, hard labor, penal colony, or prison camp]):
    For discussing Belinsky's letter, the Petrashevsky Circle was subjected to a theatrical mock execution, then given this punishment. The circle's member Fyodor Dostoevsky depicted it in The House of the Dead.
  Part 3 (ans: Poor Folk [or Bednye lyudi; or Poor People]):
    Before breaking with both, Belinsky lauded Dostoevsky as the "new Gogol" after reading this debut novel of his. In this novel, Makar Devushkin is outraged by the portrayal of his condition in Gogol's "The Overcoat."

[B7] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of one story reads in the newspaper that riots are occurring because this title is vacant, then concludes that the holder of this title must be hidden away somewhere. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: King of Spain [accept equivalents; prompt on king or monarch]):
    Name this title. In an entry dated April 43, 2000, one character claims that it "is a day of the greatest solemnity," since this title has been filled by none other than that character himself.
  Part 2 (ans: diary of a madman [or madman's diary; prompt on diary] (The second story is "Diary of a Madman" by Lu Xun.)):
    Poprishchin [poh-prish-chin] claims that he is Ferdinand VII, the King of Spain, in a story titled for one of these documents. The narrator of a story titled for one of these documents sees the line "eat people" between the lines of a book.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol]):
    The story "The Diary of a Madman" is by this Ukrainian-born author of "The Overcoat" and "The Nose."

[B8] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of a story from this collection is taken away by the devil after he hurls an ax at a being who had given him a spade to dig up treasure under a blooming fern. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka [or Vechera na khutore bliz Dikanʹki]):
    Name this collection that includes the folk horror stories "St. John's Eve" and "Christmas Eve." It is narrated by the beekeeper Rudy Panko.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol (The other story is "Viy.")):
    This author drew on his upbringing in Poltava for his collection Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka. This author's collection Mirgorod includes a story about Khoma's death to the title creature, a "king of gnomes."
  Part 3 (ans: witches):
    The protagonists of the Gogol stories "St. John's Eve" and "Viy" both contend with these evildoing beings, typified in Russian folklore by Baba Yaga.

[B9] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play's fifth act, a room full of characters are thunderstruck when a Postmaster reads aloud a letter that brutally mocks all of them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Inspector General [or The Government Inspector; or Revizor]):
    Name this comedy whose protagonist, a naive, fairly stupid clerk, takes advantage of a provincial town along with his servant Osip after losing all of his money playing cards.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    The Inspector General was written by this Ukrainian-Russian author of "The Overcoat" and Dead Souls.
  Part 3 (ans: Vsevolod Meyerhold [or Vsevolod Emilyevich Meyerhold; or Karl Kasimir Theodor Meyerhold]):
    This Russian directed a landmark 1926 production of The Inspector General where actors emerged from 11 coffin-like doors during a nightmarish bribe scene. He broke from his mentor Stanislavsky ("STANizslavsky") to emphasize posture and movement, leading him to develop a school of actor training called Biomechanics.

[B10] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A soldier participates in this activity in order to marry the title character of the poem The Tambov Treasurer's Wife by Mikhail Lermontov. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gamble [accept playing cards; accept roulette] (The other novel is The Gambler by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.)):
    Name this activity. At the end of one novel, Alexei Ivanovich decides to participate in this activity before leaving for Switzerland to find Polina.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Fyodor Dolokhov gambles away 40,000 rubles after proposing to Sonya in this author's novel War and Peace.
  Part 3 (ans: Dead Souls [or Mjortvyje dushi] (by Nikolai Gogol)):
    While playing checkers with the cheating Nozdryov, the protagonist of this novel, Chichikov, refuses to gamble with his list of names.

[B11] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel ends mid-sentence with the phrase "because we all see this now darkly, and we barely...," part of an anti-corruption speech. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Dead Souls [or Mjortvyje dushi]):
    Name this novel whose protagonist entices landowners with tax relief in order to purchase the title entities. This novel's protagonist is arrested for attempting to forge the will of Khlobuyev's aunt.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Yanovsky]):
    This Russian author wrote Dead Souls. His short stories include "The Overcoat" and "The Nose."
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks [or Zaporozhians; or Zaporozhian Cossacks; or Zaporozhian Host; or Viisko Zaporozke; or The Cossacks; or Kazaki] (The Gogol novella is Taras Bulba. The Tolstoy novel is The Cossacks.)):
    The title character of a Gogol novella who belongs to this group is tied to a tree and burned alive at the novella's end. The protagonist Olenin attempts to marry a member of this group in a Tolstoy novel titled for them.

[B12] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the unique form of literary identity known as the "Russian soul," for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol]):
    Vissarion Belinsky coined the term "Russian soul" after reading this author's novel Dead Souls. Fyodor Dostoevsky quipped that "We all come out from" this author's story "The Overcoat."
  Part 2 (ans: diary [or dnevnik; accept A Writer's Diary or The Diary of a Superfluous Man; accept Dnevnik pisateli; accept Dnevnik lishnego cheloveka]):
    The Russian Soul titles a book of selections from Dostoevsky's 1400-page work in this genre that helped to popularize the term. A Turgenev novella framed as a work in this genre created the "superfluous man" archetype.
  Part 3 (ans: spleen):
    James Falen's translation of Eugene Onegin renders the word "khandra" as "Russian soul," contrasting it with this "English" condition. Pushkin compares Onegin to Childe Harold while describing this sense of melancholy, which sometimes titles the poem's first canto.

[B13] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 1919 essay on the "Structure of" this story, Boris Eikhenbaum characterizes its dialogue as "language in which puppets might talk." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Overcoat" [or "The Cloak"; or "Shinel"]):
    Name this story in which an "important personage" prone to verbal repetition propounds a system of "Strictness, strictness, and always strictness!" and rejects a clerk's appeal for aid.
  Part 2 (ans: skaz):
    According to Eikhenbaum, the narrator of "The Overcoat" is "a performer, almost a comedian," making the story an example of this Russian literary form that integrates dialect, slang, and oral performance into a written narrative.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol]):
    Eikhenbaum claims that this author of "The Overcoat" determines stories not by plot, but by "some comic situation" that allows for the "elaboration of comic devices."

[B14] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The novel The Museum of Abandoned Secrets spans sixty years of this country's history and was written by the author of a 2011 novel titled Fieldwork in [this country's] Sex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ukraine [or Ukraina] (The author in the lead-in is Oksana Zabuzhko. Lesya Ukrainka wrote The Forest Song. The collection is Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka by Nikolai Gogol.)):
    Name this country, whose most prominent female playwright wrote the proto-environmentalist drama The Forest Song. The story "St. John's Eve" appeared in a collection titled for an estate in what is now this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Chernobyl nuclear disaster):
    Another prominent Eastern European writer, Svetlana Alexievich, wrote a book titled for Voices from the site of this 1986 disaster in modern-day Ukraine.
  Part 3 (ans: penguins [or pingouins; accept Penguin Island; accept Death and the Penguin or Penguin Lost; accept Great auks; prompt on birds]):
    A series of humorous novels by Ukrainian author Andrey Kurkov focuses on a man who adopts one of these animals from the zoo. In a 1908 satirical French novel, a visually-impaired monk baptizes an island of these animals.

[B15] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This man notes that "Tonight the moon is very bright" after claiming to have not seen it for thirty years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the madman [accept any answers referring to the narrator of the story "A Madman's Diary"]):
    Identify this character, who ends the story in which he appears by saying "save the children . . ." This character fears that the people of his village are trying to get him to commit suicide so that they can eat him.
  Part 2 (ans: Lu Xun [or Zhou Shuren; or Lu Sun; or Lu Hsun; or Zhou Zhangshou; accept names in either order]):
    "A Madman's Diary" is a short story by this author. A character famous for his "spiritual victories" is the subject of this Chinese author's "The True Story of Ah Q."
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    A civil servant's descent into insanity is chronicled in this author's "Diary of a Madman." This author set his stories "The Nose" and "The Overcoat" in St. Petersburg.

[B16] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In March 2022, many Ukrainians on Instagram criticized Russia by quoting a poet with this first name with lines like "From the Moldavian to the Finn / All silent are in all their tongues." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taras [accept Taras (Hryhorovych) Shevchenko or Kobzar Taras or Taras Bulba]):
    Give this first name of the poet who wrote "The Caucasus." A character with this first name inspired by Cossack legends tells his son Andriy, "I gave you life, I will also kill you!"
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolay Vasil'yevich Gogol; or Mykola Vasil'ovych Hohol]):
    This author changed his novel Taras Bulba in 1842 to remove some Ukrainian themes. This author expounded upon those political views in his novel Dead Souls.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pushkin [or Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin] (The novel is Eugene Onegin.)):
    This author praised Gogol as "so unusual...I am [unable] to get over it." While in Odessa, this author continued a novel with alternating masculine and feminine rhymes whose title character shuns Tatyana and kills a poet in a duel.

[B17] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a charity performance of this play, Dostoyevsky played a postmaster whose arrival prompts the Mayor to tell the audience, "What are you laughing about? You are laughing at yourselves!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Government Inspector [or The Inspector General or Revizor]):
    Name this 1836 play in which the townspeople offer the conman Khlestakov massive bribes after mistaking him for the title state official.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    The Government Inspector is a play by this Russian author, whose other satirical works include short stories like "The Nose" and "The Overcoat."
  Part 3 (ans: The Visit [or Der Besuch der alten Dame] (by Friedrich Durrenmatt)):
    The plot of The Government Inspector may have inspired this 1956 Swiss play, in which Claire Zachanassian offers a billion francs to her hometown Gullen on the condition that the townspeople kill her lover Anton.

[B18] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator's growing fear of the villagers in the Wolf Cub Village is exacerbated after seeing these two words. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "eat people" [accept "chi ren"]):
    Name these two words, which the narrator of that short story wishes to "save the children" from following. "Virtue and morality" is scribbled all over a book where these two words appear in between the lines.
  Part 2 (ans: Lu Xun [or Lu Sun; or Lu Hsun; accept Zhou Suren]):
    The narrator sees the words "eat people" appear in "Diary of a Madman," a short story by this Chinese author. This author wrote about a man who calls his failures "spiritual victories" in "The True Story of Ah Q."
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol):
    "Diary of a Madman" takes its title from a short story of the same name by this Russian author. Lu Xun admired this author of "The Nose" and translated his novel "Dead Souls" into Chinese.

[B19] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Simon Karlinsky analyzed how this author's repressed sexuality surfaced in his writings in his book The Sexual Labyrinth of [this author]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilyevich Gogol] (The novel that he burned was the second part to Dead Souls.)):
    Name this possibly gay Russian author who burned the second part of his only novel a few days before he died horribly from an ascetic lifestyle that was prescribed to rid him of his "inner filth."
  Part 2 (ans: "Diary of a Madman" [accept "Zapiski sumasshedshevo"]):
    Karlinsky compares the "atrocious tortures" of Gogol's deathbed treatments to those undergone by Poprishchin, the protagonist of this Gogol story, who convinces himself that he is the king of Spain as he descends into insanity.
  Part 3 (ans: overcoats [accept "The Overcoat"; or shinel; accept "The Cloak"; prompt on coats]):
    One of Gogol's last letters was to the priest who prescribed him his ascetic lifestyle, asking if they could "exchange" these clothing items. In another Gogol story, Akaky Akakievich is robbed of this title piece of clothing.

[B20] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This story ends with the narrator declaring, "Mother, mother, have pity on your sick child! And do you know that the Bey of Algiers has a wart under his nose?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Diary of a Madman"):
    Name this story whose narrator begins signing forms as Ferdinand VII, and describes how he's being held by the Spanish Inquisition in erratically-dated letters.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    This Ukrainian author wrote "The Diary of a Madman." The barber Ivan Yakovlevich finds his client Major Kovalyov's nose in his morning bread in this author's story "The Nose."
  Part 3 (ans: Tommaso Landolfi):
    This Italian author wrote the bizarre story "Gogol's Wife," which recounts how Gogol married a life-size balloon named Caracas who became pregnant with a balloon child and contracted syphilis.

[B21] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's Sinfonietta was dedicated to the Czechoslovak Army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leos Janacek ("YAH-nah-check")):
    Name this composer and Czech nationalist who drew on Moravian folk music for such operas as Jenufa.
  Part 2 (ans: string quartet [prompt on quartet]):
    Janacek wrote two pieces for this ensemble, including one inspired by Leo Tolstoy's novella The Kreutzer Sonata. Other Czech pieces for this chamber ensemble include Smetana's ("SMEH-tah-nah'z") "From My Life" and Dvorak's "American" one.
  Part 3 (ans: Taras Bulba (It is a novel by Nikolai Gogol.)):
    This other work of Russian literature inspired a "symphonic rhapsody" by Janacek which includes a passage scored for brass and organ that represents the title character's "Prophecy". This work also inspired an opera by Mykola Lysenko.

[B22] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is disturbed while praying "with an expression of profound piety" in a cathedral by an official who is himself distracted by a girl in a white dress. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Major Kovalyov's nose):
    Name this character who is seen exiting a carriage with a sheathed sword and wearing a gold-braided uniform with a collar that obscures his face. The story begins with a barber finding this character in a loaf of bread and throwing him in a river.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    Major Kovalyov's nose falls off in a short story by this 19th-century Russian author, who also wrote "The Overcoat" and the novel Dead Souls.
  Part 3 (ans: "Viy" ("vee")):
    In this Gogol story, a witch forces the philosophy student Khoma to carry her and chant hymns over her corpse. He later dies in fright of the fiends summoned by the title demon, who has eyelids that touch the floor.

[B23] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Danes celebrate this holiday by lighting a bonfire with an effigy of a witch on top. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: St. John's Eve [or Saint Jonas' festival; or Sankthansaften]):
    Identify this holiday in June often associated with the production of medicinal plants and the Midsummer. In Lithuania, people search for the magic fern blossom and worshipped Rasa prior to the Christianization of the Baltics.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    Witches are a common theme in St. John's Eve celebrations, exemplified by this Ukranian author who wrote about a witch appearing to Petro in a story titled for the holiday. He also wrote "The Nose" and "The Overcoat".
  Part 3 (ans: Portugal):
    People in this country celebrate St. John's Eve by hitting their neighbors on the head with toy hammers and a leek. This country celebrates the dragon Coco by staging a fight between him and St. George during the Corpus Christi celebrations.

[B24] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One woman in this play is courted by a man whose name translates to omelet and a man who wants her to speak French, even though he doesn't speak it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marriage):
    Name this play, the protagonist of which jumps out of a window to avoid the title event.
  Part 2 (ans: The Inspector General [or The Government Inspector; or Revizor]):
    The final scene of this play includes an angry man, who was tricked by the title character, shouting "Who are you laughing at? Laugh at yourselves!" at the audience.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Gogol):
    This Russian playwright wrote both Marriage and The Inspector General.

[B25] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author was exiled from this country for writing a 1790 study of its social issues titled for a 'Journey' between its two largest cities. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Imperial Russia [or Rossiya; the works mentioned are Journey from Petersburg to Moscow by Radishchev and A Government Inspector by Gogol]):
    Name this country. Another author satirised political corruption in this country in a play in which a civil servant poses as the title figure and flees before the Postmaster delivers a letter revealing him to be a fraud.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin):
    This Russian author was exiled to New Russia after calling Alexander I a 'wandering despot' with a 'plump posterior'. He was later fatally wounded in a duel, like Lensky in his verse novel Eugene Onegin.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Griboyedov):
    Pushkin recalled seeing the coffin of this other Russian writer while travelling in the Caucasus. This author of the censored verse comedy Woe from Wit was lynched and torn apart by locals after being appointed Russian minister in Tehran.
