=== STOCK CLUES: Verrocchio ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ARCHIVE (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andrea del Verrocchio [prompt on Andrea]
  - A sculpture by this artist in the Frick Collection is attributed to the wrong family due to a mistake over the testicle motif in that sculpture. [PWR]
  - The National Gallery once claimed to own 6 sculptures by this artist, although Andrew Butterfield's recent book on this artist cites only one as possibly authentic, a marble relief of Alexander the Great. [PWR]
  - This sculptor made La Piagnona, the bell used by (+) Savonarola that was subsequently put on trial and flogged. [PWR]
  - Vasari relates how this man collaborated with the wax-painting specialist Orsino Benintendi to create three life-size figures of the targets of the Pazzi Conspiracy. [PWR]
  - A narrative bronze sculpture this artist created for a niche in (*) Orsanmichele depicts Christ raising his right hand above Saint Thomas. [PWR]
  - Lorenzo di Credi and Alessandro Leopardi completed the casting of this man's unfinished equestrian statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni.
  - For 10 points, name this Renaissance sculptor and teacher of Leonardo. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Lively descriptions of the Apostles and Doctors of the Church comprise 10 low-relief panels decorating one of these structures constructed for the Old Sacristy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bronze doors [accept gates; accept South Doors or North Doors or East Doors; accept Gates of Paradise]):
    What kind of structure designed by Andrea Pisano contains scenes detailing John the Baptist's life? Before leaving for Rome, Filippo Brunelleschi ("broo-nuh-LESS-kee") was slated to co-design one of these structures with Lorenzo Ghiberti ("gee-BAIR-tee").
  Part 2 (ans: Florence [or Firenze]):
    Pisano and Ghiberti built bronze doors for this city's octagonal Baptistry. This city's Uffizi gallery houses many artworks commissioned by the Medici family.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea del Verrocchio ("vuh-ROH-kee-yoh") [or Andrea di Michele di Francesco de' Cioni]):
    This sculptor collaborated with Michelozzo ("mee-kell-LOT-soh") to create the Florence Baptistry's silver altar of San Giovanni. Alessandro Leopardi completed this sculptor's equestrian statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: With his student Lorenzo di Credi ("dee KRAY-dee"), this artist introduced the presentation of the Madonna, child, and saints framed by a loggia ("LOH-juh") and landscape views in an altarpiece for Pistoia Cathedral. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea del Verrocchio ("vair-OKE-yoh")):
    Name this artist whose Lady with Flowers was the first marble bust to include the subject's hands. He made an equestrian statue of a condottiere ("condo-t'YAY-ray") whose herald contains three testicles.
  Part 2 (ans: gold [accept gold leaf]):
    Before turning to sculpture and painting, Verrochio was trained as a smith of this metal. Influenced by Byzantine art, early Renaissance Italian paintings often used the "leaf" of this precious metal.
  Part 3 (ans: Orsanmichele ("or-sahm-mee-KAY-lay")):
    Verrochio sculpted a bronze statue of Saint Thomas reaching towards Jesus for this building. Nanni di Banco ("NAH-nee dee BAHN-koh") sculpted the Four Crowned Martyrs in a semi-circular arrangement for this building.

[B3] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A marble sculpture of this figure by Michelangelo was first installed at the entrance of the Palazzo Vecchio ("pah-LOT-zoh VECK-yoh"), while another artist's bronze version of this figure was first displayed inside the building. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David [or Davide; or King David]):
    Name this figure whom a bronze Donatello sculpture depicts atop the head of Goliath.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea del Verrocchio ("veh-ROH-kyoh") [or Andrea di Michele di Francesco de' Cioni]):
    The Palazzo Vecchio houses this other artist's bronze statue of David wearing a leather tunic and standing on Goliath's head. This artist also sculpted Christ and St. Thomas for the Orsanmichele ("or-sahm-mee-KEH-lay").
  Part 3 (ans: contrapposto):
    Donatello, Verrocchio, and Michelangelo's statues of David all make use of this pose with an Italian name. In this pose, a figure's weight rests on one foot, which tilts the hips and creates a relaxed appearance.

[B4] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This sculptor destroyed the head of one of his statues in a fit of rage, but when threatened with beheading by its commissioner, replied that he could return a head to a statue but that his head couldn't be returned to his body. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea del Verrocchio ("vair-ROKE-yo") (All clues refer to his Equestrian Statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni.)):
    Name this artist who started that equestrian statue, which was finished by Alessandro Leopardi. The long sides of the pedestal for that statue have three pillars each, referencing a rumor that its subject, Bartolomeo Colleoni, had three testicles.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo]):
    Vasari claimed that Verrocchio gave up painting after this apprentice of his drew an angel in The Baptism of Christ more beautifully than any of Verrocchio's prior works. This artist demonstrated ideal proportions in Vitruvian Man.
  Part 3 (ans: Palazzo Vecchio ("pah-LOTS-oh VEK-yo") [or Palazzo della Signoria; accept Palazzo del Popolo or Palazzo dei Priori or Palazzo Ducale or Piazza della Signoria; prompt on Old Palace]):
    Leonardo likely modeled for Verrocchio's statue of David, which is housed in this building. Since it was too tall for the Florence Cathedral, Michelangelo's David was placed outside this building, but the version currently there is only a copy.

[B5] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about materials used in Renaissance sculpture, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: marble):
    To sculpt his famous David, Michelangelo needed this material, which he obtained from a quarry in Carrara.
  Part 2 (ans: porphyry):
    Legend had it that the Romans lost their ability to work in this material, extremely prized in Renaissance sculptures, after Diocletian executed the Four Crowned Saints. Purplish in color, this extremely hard igneous rock could not be cut by Renaissance artists and was obtained by taking it from Greek and Roman columns.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea del Verrocchio [or Andrea di Michele di Francesco de' Cioni]):
    This Renaissance sculptor created a statue of marble, porphyry and bronze to commemorate Piero and Giovanni de Medici. He taught both Perugino and Leonardo da Vinci.
