=== STOCK CLUES: Mapplethorpe ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Mapplethorpe
  - Works by this photographer were juxtaposed with Michelangelo's David at 'Perfection in Form', the first modern art exhibition at the Accademia. [PWR]
  - A self-portrait by this photographer shows them standing in front of a black five-pointed star holding a rifle. [PWR]
  - A portrait by this photographer shows the sculpture Fillette being held by its artist, Louise Bourgeois. [PWR]
  - In a 1975 work by this photographer, a ribbon-wearing woman hangs a jacket over her shoulder. [PWR]
  - The National Endowment of Arts (*) withdrew funds for a 1990 exhibition of this photographer's work at the Corcoran Gallery.
  - This artist of the album cover of Horses took a typical self-portrait in which they insert a whip into their anus.
  - For 10 points, the exhibition The Perfect Moment collected works by which photographer and friend of Patti Smith, known for his BDSM photos of the New York underground? [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert [accept Endre Erno Friedmann; accept Robert Doisneau or Robert Capa or Robert Mapplethorpe or Robert Michael Mapplethorpe]
  - In one work, a photographer with this first name showed eight bread rolls on a table in front of the arms of Pablo Picasso.
  - The contents of the "Mexican Suitcase" suggested that a photographer known by this first name faked a photo of Federico Borrell Garcia while working with Gerda Taro.
  - A photographer with this first name had two actors stage his work The Kiss by the Town Hall.
  - A photographer known by this first name took the "Magnificent Eleven" photos of D-Day, as well as The Falling Soldier.
  - The Corcoran Gallery hosted a controversial exhibition by a photographer with this first name titled The Perfect Moment, which included many explicit photos of BDSM.
  - For 10 points, give this first name shared by photographers with surnames Doisneau, Capa, and Mapplethorpe. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Mapplethorpe
  - Glenn Ligon paired photographs from a collection by this artist with seventy-eight quotes describing their degradation of blackness. [PWR]
  - This artist wears a black turtleneck and grasps a cane topped with an ornamental skull in a platinum print self-portrait taken a year before his death. [PWR]
  - A photograph of Patty Hearst standing in front of the SLA symbol inspired a photograph by this man in which he holds a submachine gun while standing in front of a pentagram. [PWR]
  - This photographer included the controversial (*) Man in a Polyester Suit in a series that contains numerous nude pictures of the actor Derrick Cross. [PWR]
  - Those "Z portraits" were included in an exhibit by this photographer that was cancelled by the Corcoran Gallery.
  - That exhibit includes a suggestive image of the five-year-old Jesse McBride as well as the photo Jim and Tom Sausalito , which depicts a hooded man peeing into another man's mouth.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer whose The Perfect Moment depicts the BDSM subculture of New York. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Mapplethorpe (MAPLE-thorp)
  - This artist restaged many of George Dureau's images of dwarfs and amputees.
  - In an expensive photograph by this artist, four silk panels surround a platinum print on linen, depicting Andy Warhol.
  - In a departure from his usual subject matter, this photographer shot many close-ups of calla lilies.
  - This photographer's Black Book has been criticized for its exploitative fetishization of black men.
  - Restrictions on National Endowment of the Arts grants were enacted after it had funded a retrospective for this photographer at the Corcoran Gallery, called The Perfect Moment, soon after his 1989 death of complications from AIDS.
  - For 10 points, name this American artist who took extremely sadomasochistic and homoerotic photographs. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Mapplethorpe Tiebreaker
  - One work by this artist is a continuous, axisymmetric bust of Benito Mussolini.
  - Late in life, this artist sculpted a statue depicting its subject wearing broken manacles on his arms, which rest across his chest with the right arm holding a sword.
  - This artist of the aforementioned Spartacus showed two male fgures, their heads unseen, striking a ballet-like pose in "Ken and Tyler," and he depicted two intertwined stems, one terminating in an unblossomed bud, and the other in the title fower, in his "Poppy." This artist divided 39 works into three categories in his X, Y, and Z Portfolios, and depicted a black man with his back to the viewer and his ankles grasped in his outstretched hands in "Derrick Cross." He pictured a nude woman sitting on a wooden foor with her knees to her chest, holding on to a radiator pipe, in his portrait of his friend Patti Smith.
  - This artist's self-portrait with a whip inserted in his anus was part of his exhibition that was infamously canceled by the Corcoran Art Gallery in DC.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer of The Perfect Moment known for his depictions of gay sex and BDSM culture. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Despite gay marriage still not being legal there at the time, this artist's home country released a series of wildly popular stamps paying homage to his art in 2014. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tom of Finland [or Touko Laaksonen; prompt on Tom]):
    Name this artist who was inspired by Marlon Brando's biker look in The Wild One to create illustrations of muscular men in leather and jeans, such as the pin-up character Kake ("KAH-keh").
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe ("maple-thorp") [or Robert Michael Mapplethorpe]):
    This photographer, who encouraged Tom of Finland to exhibit in mainstream art galleries, drew on Tom's imagery for his own series of male nude photographs exhibited in the controversial '90s expo The Perfect Moment.
  Part 3 (ans: standard sizes [or sizing systems; accept dimensions; prompt on S, M, L, XL, or XXL; prompt on small, medium, large, extra-large, or extra-extra-large; prompt on Tom of Finland XXL; prompt on S,M,L,XL]):
    One of these concepts titles a Taschen book on Tom that features essays by John Waters and Camille Paglia. Four of these concepts title a book in which Bruce Mau and Rem Koolhaas ("KOHL-hoss") documented OMA's design principles.

[B2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist founded the activist group P.A.I.N., which has staged "die-ins" at many museums funded by the Sackler family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nan Goldin [or Nancy Goldin]):
    Name this photographer, who compiled the slideshow The Ballad of Sexual Dependency from their photos of New York's gay and no-wave subcultures.
  Part 2 (ans: AIDS crisis [or HIV crisis; or AIDS epidemic; or HIV epidemic; accept clear equivalents]):
    Goldin curated the 1989 exhibition Witnesses: Against Our Vanishing, which consisted of responses to this crisis. A massive "Memorial Quilt" commemorates this 1980s health crisis.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe [or Robert Michael Mapplethorpe]):
    Other photographers who depicted New York's gay subcultures in the 1980s include this artist, who took the cover photo for Patti Smith's album Horses. This photographer's controversial exhibition The Perfect Moment took place just after their 1989 death from AIDS.

[B3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a piece titled for this word and subtitled (Hands and Mirror), two sculptures of arms lie on a piece of marble surrounded by open doors and mirrors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cells):
    Name this word that titles a series of sculptural forms placing everyday objects in spaces like wire-mesh cages. Exhibitions titled Structures of Existence focused on pieces titled using this word.
  Part 2 (ans: Louise Bourgeois [or Louise Josephine Bourgeois]):
    This artist created the Cell series and the piece The Destruction of the Father. She also sculpted a phallic form called Fillette and a large series of sculptures inspired by her weaver mother.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe [or Robert Michael Mapplethorpe]):
    A photograph of Louise Bourgeois holding Fillette and wearing a black coat was taken by this photographer known for his BDSM themed photos, which were exhibited at the show The Perfect Moment before his death from AIDS.

[B4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer collected his pictures of the bodybuilder Lisa Lyon in Lady, Lisa Lyon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    Name this photographer, most often known for his black-and-white photographs of BDSM culture. His exhibition at D.C.'s Corcoran Gallery was the subject of much controversy.
  Part 2 (ans: skulls):
    Near the end of his life, Robert Mapplethorpe took a self-portrait with a staff topped by one of these objects. In memento mori paintings, these objects serve as reminders of death.
  Part 3 (ans: snakes [accept specific types like pythons]):
    In one work from Lady, Lisa Lyon, she holds one of these animals while sitting naked in a chair. In a Richard Avedon picture, a naked Nastassja Kinski lies on the floor with one of these animals.

[B5] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After including a photograph titled for one of these objects in a 1972 Life magazine story, the artist sustained eye damage after being beaten up by yakuza. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bathtubs [prompt on baths]):
    The effects of Minamata disease were highlighted in a haunting W. Eugene Smith photograph of Ryoko Uemura cradling her daughter Tomoko while inside what objects?
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    This photographer stands expressionless, while Keith Haring looks on with a surprised face, in Don Herron's series of Tub Shots. This photographer's homoerotic and sadomasochistic work was exhibited at the show The Perfect Moment in 1988 a year before he died of AIDS.
  Part 3 (ans: Lee Miller):
    In a photo by David Scherman, this war correspondent during World War II sits inside Adolf Hitler's bathtub, while a portrait of Hitler hangs at top left and a pair of muddied boots appear before the tub.

[B6] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's many photographs of Patti Smith included the covers of her albums Horses and Waves. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    Name this photographer who first gained notoriety for 1978's X Portfolio.
  Part 2 (ans: Washington, D.C. [accept either underlined part; or District of Columbia]):
    Mapplethorpe's X Portfolio sparked a firestorm after being exhibited at the Corcoran Gallery in this city. The only Leonardo in the Americas is housed in this American city, in the National Gallery of Art.
  Part 3 (ans: Black Book):
    Ntozake Shange wrote the Foreword for this Mapplethorpe book, which focuses on nude African-American men. This book focuses explicitly on the model's penis in photos like Man in Polyester Suit.

[B7] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 2014 exhibition at the Musee Rodin juxtaposed Rodin sculptures with the work of this photographer, who claimed "I see things like they were sculptures. It depends on how that form exists within the space." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    Name this late twentieth-century American photographer, whose stylized black-and-white images capture celebrities, flowers, and explicit scenes of BDSM.
  Part 2 (ans: Andy Warhol [or Andrew Warhola]):
    The most expensive Mapplethorpe photograph ever sold was a portrait of this pop artist of Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster). Like Mapplethorpe, this man experimented with the use of urine in "art" at his studio, the Factory.
  Part 3 (ans: Platinum print [or platinotype]):
    That portrait was made using a plate of this precious metal. Photographic plates of this metal are considered more durable than gold, and, when treated with the Na2 method, do not cause grain.

[B8] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A thirty-foot tall sculpture of one of these animals that contains 26 marble eggs is titled Maman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: spiders):
    Name this animal frequently sculpted by Louise Bourgeois, which, with "the Mistress and the Tangerine," titles a documentary about her work. Odilon Redon painted these animals with smiling and crying human faces.
  Part 2 (ans: nude [or equivalents of being naked or not wearing clothes]):
    An early series of paintings by Bourgeois depicts figures of this type with houses for heads. A Guerilla Girls poster asks whether women need to be in this state to get into the Met, and Duchamp painted a figure of this sort "descending a staircase."
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    This artist photographed Bourgeois carrying her phallus-shaped sculpture Fillette. The exhibit The Perfect Moment controversially included this man's black-and-white photographs of homoerotic sadomasochism.

[B9] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's collaborations with Patti Smith included the cover to Smith's album Horses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    Identify this photographer, best known for his black-and-white depiction of nudes which frequently explored homoerotic themes. He died in 1989 of complications related to AIDS.
  Part 2 (ans: Andy Warhol):
    This other gay artist, who made his studio at The Factory, was a frequent subject of Mapplethorpe's photos.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Paul Getty):
    After his death, Mapplethorpe's work was donated to an art research institute named for this industrialist, which is part of a museum directed by Timothy Potts located in Los Angeles.

[B10] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's solo exhibit The Perfect Moment that was planned for Washington's Corcoran Gallery of Art spawned a brouhaha over public funding for obscene works of art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    Identify this American photographer.
  Part 2 (ans: black [or negra]):
    Kobena Mercer criticized a Mapplethorpe collection titled for this color because of Mapplethorpe's "fantasy of absolute authority" in the images. This color also describes a series of works painted in the Quinta del Sordo that include Saturn Devouring One of his Children.
  Part 3 (ans: Patti Smith [or Patricia Lee Smith]):
    This musician recounted how she provided for Mapplethorpe while he was busy making altars of found objects in her 2010 memoir, Just Kids.

[B11] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Patti Smith described her long-term relationship with this man in her memoir Just Kids. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    Name this New York photographer who often rankled sensibilities with stark, black-and-white portraits with homoerotic and sadomasochistic themes, such as one of a man and a bullwhip.
  Part 2 (ans: a skull):
    A late self-portrait by Mapplethorpe shows him holding a cane topped by one of these objects. Damien Hirst's For the Love of God is in the shape of one of these objects, and a distended one appears in The French Ambassadors.
  Part 3 (ans: Lisa Lyon):
    One of Mapplethorpe's most notable series is Lady, which explores the many appearances of this bodybuilding champion. Mapplethorpe variously depicts her nude, veiled, corseted, and holding a giant python.

[B12] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about controversial photographs, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miley Cyrus):
    Photographer Annie Leibovitz drew fire in 2008 for a topless photoshoot of this then fifteen-year-old actress.
  Part 2 (ans: Piss Christ):
    Andres Serrano took this photograph of a crucifix submerged in fluid as part of a series that also involved statuettes photographed in blood and milk.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    This photographer drew questions regarding the definition of obscenity over his explicit, homoerotic exhibition at the Washington Project for the Arts.

[B13] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A gallery in Washington, D.C. backed out of showing this photographer's The Perfect Moment exhibit after Congressional outcry over obscenity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    Name this man known for the graphic homoerotic content of his photographs.
  Part 2 (ans: Corcoran Gallery):
    This oldest and largest non-federal art museum in Washington, D.C. backed out of showing The Perfect Moment, triggering a long-running conflict over federal arts funding.
  Part 3 (ans: pop art):
    Lowell Nesbitt, a member of this art movement, had decided to bequest the Corcoran Gallery over one million dollars, but revoked it after the gallery's failure to exhibit The Perfect Moment. Better known representatives of this movement include Andy Warhol.
