=== STOCK CLUES: Leonardo da Vinci ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 75 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]
  - This artist made several studies of the elaborately braided hair of a woman for a now-lost painting in which that woman looks down to the left at twins hatching from eggshells. [PWR]
  - This artist's Study of a Woman's Hands was likely made for a painting whose reverse contains the motto "beauty adorns virtue." Bernardino Luini based a painting on this artist's Burlington House Cartoon.
  - This artist of a lost, widely-imitated version of Leda and the Swan created a (*) homoerotic drawing of an Incarnate Angel with an erect penis depicting the same student who modeled for his painting of John the Baptist pointing upwards. [PWR]
  - This teacher of Salai wrote notes such as "six palms make one cubit" on a drawing inspired by De architectura.
  - For 10 points, what Renaissance artist sketched an idealized human figure inside a square and a circle in Vitruvian Man? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci; accept either underlined portion]
  - Paul Konody authenticated a painting by this artist that its owner, Hugh Blaker, kept in his Isleworth studio. [PWR]
  - The verso of another work by this artist depicts a ribbon containing the motto, "beauty adorns virtue," wrapped around a wreath and sprig of juniper. [PWR]
  - Lucrezia Crivelli may have been the subject of a portrait by this artist that shows her wearing an iron headband called a (*) ferronniere . [PWR]
  - The only painting by this artist publicly viewable in the Americas is his portrait of Ginevra de' Benci .
  - In another painting, this artist symbolized Cecilia Gallerini's pregnancy by painting her with an ermine.
  - This artist incorporated sfumato in his portrait of a female member of the Giocondo family.
  - For 10 points, what artist painted the Mona Lisa? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci] (The first clue refers to Leonardo's unfinished painting of The Adoration of the Magi.)
  - Soldiers fight on horseback to the right of the steps to a ruined building in the background of a work by this artist which contains a lone palm tree at its center. [PWR]
  - Maurizio Seracini theorized that, based on the phrase "Cerca Trova", Giorgio Vasari's fresco of the Battle of Marciano was painted on top of a work by this artist. [PWR]
  - It's not related to the Maya, but the Codex Madrid II contains unfinished plans for a massive equestrian statue by this artist nicknamed (*) "Gran Cavallo".
  - The central figure extends his arm while holding a rock and sitting next to a lion in this artist's unfinished painting of St.
  - Jerome.
  - Four soldiers fight for possession of a standard in a work by this artist that may have influenced Peter Paul Rubens's The Hippopotamus Hunt.
  - For 10 points, name this artist whose drawings include The Battle of Anghiari and The Vitruvian Man. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Saint Jerome [accept Saint/San/Santo Geronimo or Girolamo or Hieronymus] (The second sentence refers to Leonardo da Vinci's St. Jerome in the Wilderness.)
  - Giovanni Lanfranco claimed an Agostino Carracci painting of this man was plagiarized by Domenichino. [PWR]
  - Angelica Kauffman's will mentions an unfinished painting of this man that was cut into pieces and later found in a Roman junk shop by Napoleon's uncle Joseph Fesch, who reassembled it.
  - A bowl, a partridge, and a peacock stand on a ledge at the base of a portal that frames a depiction of this man in a painting by Antonello da Messina. [PWR]
  - Elena Tagliaferri requested that a small, emaciated depiction of this man (*) unrolling a scroll appear in the lower right corner of Parmigianino's Madonna with the Long Neck. [PWR]
  - A huge gourd hangs from the ceiling above this man in one of Durer's Meisterstiche (MY-stair-stik-eh), which also features a skull and a lion.
  - For 10 points, name this saint often depicted in his study working on the Vulgate. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ARCHIVE (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci's notebooks [accept answers like Leonardo da Vinci's papers or notebooks or diaries or journals; prompt on Leonardo da Vinci's memoirs or autobiography; anti-prompt on A Treatise on Painting or Trattato della pittura or Codex Urbinas]
  - Freud wrote a book about a passage from one of these documents that describes a childhood memory the author had of a bird that "opened my mouth with its tail, and struck me several times with its tail inside my lips." Sections within these documents include one titled "On the Penis" and another with the command, "Describe what sneezing is, what yawning is." Some of these documents were digitized for a (+) screensaver by a man who purchased several of them for over $30 million in 1994. [PWR]
  - These documents, which are over 7,000 pages in total, include the Codex Leicester, which is now owned by (*) Bill Gates. [PWR]
  - These documents were inherited by Francesco Melzi, who published the ones that concerned painting.
  - These documents were written in a left-handed mirror script.
  - For 10 points, name these documents with diagrams, writings, and other thoughts by the artist of the Mona Lisa. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]
  - A portrait of this person by Cristofano dell'Altissimo strongly resembles a painting found in a cupboard in 2009, the Lucan portrait. [PWR]
  - A portrait of this person was hidden away from Turin's Royal Library to prevent Adolf Hitler from staring into its eyes and gaining strength. [PWR]
  - A Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres painting shows Francis I cradling this person in a deathbed. [PWR]
  - This person modeled as the Archangel Raphael in the painting Tobias and the Angel by his mentor (*) Verrocchio. [PWR]
  - A Codex on the Flight of Birds contains one of many portraits of this person done in red chalk and with wispy, flowing hair.
  - A figure physically modeled on this non-Greek person holds a copy of the Timaeus and points a finger into the air; that figure is Plato from Raphael's School of Athens.
  - For 10 points, name this artist who may have depicted a feminized self-portrait in his Mona Lisa. [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci; prompt on da Vinci]
  - Cassiano dal Pozzo's statement that a work from this artist's workshop "does not inspire devotion" may explain why it was converted into a painting of Bacchus.
  - This artist probably advised Giovanni Francesco Rustici  for a sculpture group that stood above Ghiberti's doors for the Florence Baptistery.
  - That group's central figure makes a hand gesture similar to Saint Anne's in this artist's Burlington House Cartoon.
  - This man reused the same gesture in a chiaroscuro painting possibly modeled on his student, Salai , which shows a long-and-curly-haired John the Baptist smiling and pointing to heaven.
  - The Louvre and London's National Gallery both house versions of a painting by this artist that exhibits his signature sfumato and shows John the Baptist as a child kneeling beside a blue-cloaked Mary in a grotto.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of the Virgin of the Rocks. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either underlined portion]
  - This artist was assisted on some of his projects' backgrounds by the de Predis brothers. [PWR]
  - The Hall of the Five Hundred may have housed a now painted-over work by this artist, which Rubens emulated in his The Battle of Anghiari. [PWR]
  - According to Vasari, this artist creepily followed attractive young men to capture their "Grecian profiles." Ingres painted this man's last breath being received by (*) King Francis I, who brought this artist to his court. [PWR]
  - This artist is generally accepted as the subject of a 1510 Portrait of a Man in Red Chalk, and made many sketches of his proposed military machines.
  - The sfumato style of this man's most famous work draws millions of visitors per year to its private room at the Louvre.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of the Mona Lisa. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: the Annunciation (The first and third clue describe Leonardo da Vinci's and Simone Martini's versions.)
  - Unusually for its artist, a version of this scene features a harbor scene in the background and an ornate marble table copied from Piero de Medici's tomb. [PWR]
  - In a weird version of this scene, God appears diving out of a cloud in the background. [PWR]
  - In addition to that version by Lorenzo Lotto, a circular mass of wings appears at the top center of a version of this scene which is flanked by St. [PWR]
  - Margaret and St. [PWR]
  - Ansanus. [PWR]
  - An artist included Adam and Eve in the left background of some of his (*) versions of this scene, which he set in a loggia in a garden. [PWR]
  - The monastery of San Marco is home to one of Fra Angelico's versions of this scene.
  - The main elements of this scene are a figure carrying a lily, a woman reading from Isaiah, and a dove.
  - For 10 points, name this Biblical scene in which an angel informs Mary she will give birth to Jesus. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either underlined portion]
  - Works by this artist confused with those of Il Sodoma include a painting bought by the Marquess of Lansdowne in which an infant Christ plays with a sewing implement. [PWR]
  - Raphael's Madonna of the Pinks is probably based on a work by this artist "rediscovered" by Leon Benois.
  - This artist of two versions of the Madonna of the Yarnwinder created a painting with two musician angels on its side panels and another angel by the side of baby Christ identified as either Gabriel or Uriel - that painting's background features a curved road amidst a (*) craggy landscape. [PWR]
  - This artist painted the angel at left of the version of The Baptism of Christ executed by his teacher, Andrea del Verrocchio.
  - His other Biblical scenes include the Madonna of the Rocks and a painting in which Judas' face is cast in shadow at a feast.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of the Mona Lisa. [GIVE]

[T11] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci]
  - In a Madonna lactans by this artist, mountains can be seen through two arched windows, and Christ holds a goldfinch.
  - Christ escapes the embrace of his mother, whose spinning tool resembles a miniature cross, in the Buccleuch and Lansdowne Madonnas by this artist, collectively known as the Madonna of the Yarnwinder.
  - Two side panels depicting musician angels were part of an altarpiece containing this artist's best-known Madonna, which exists in two versions at the Louvre and National Gallery in London, both of which feature an angel and John the Baptist alongside Mary and Jesus in a craggy landscape.
  - For 10 points, name this artist whose commissions for Ludovico Sforza in Milan include The Virgin of the Rocks and The Last Supper. [GIVE]

[T12] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonardo Da Vinci [accept either underlined name]
  - This artist made the best-known painting owned by the Czartoryski Museum in Krakow.
  - A portrait by this artist is named for a style of horizontal band with a jewel in the center, worn across the forehead of the subject.
  - The obverse of one painting by him shows a palm frond and laurel branch joining above a banner that reads: "Virtutem forma decorat".
  - In that portrait by him, a woman in a brown dress with blue lacing at the bosom stands in front of a juniper tree, punning on her name Ginevra de' Benci.
  - This artist's La Belle Ferroniere may depict Cecilia Gallerani, the subject of his Lady with an Ermine.
  - Marcel Duchamp drew a mustache on his most famous painting in L.H.O.O.Q.
  - For 10 points, name this artist who showed an enigmatically smiling woman in his Mona Lisa. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist's version of this scene for the Badia di Passignano was primarily painted by his brother Davide ("DA-vee-day") and features a man in the center facing away from the viewer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Supper (The first version is Tintoretto's.)):
    Name this scene whose Ognissanti version by Domenico Ghirlandaio portrays John sleeping. In another version of this scene, near-transparent angels orbit a hanging oil lamp over a man in a pink and blue robe.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    This student of Ghirlandaio used Jesus's cheek as the vanishing point in his version of The Last Supper in the Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan. This painter also drew the Vitruvian Man.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea del Castagno [or Andrea di Bartolo di Bargilla]):
    Ghirlandaio was likely influenced by this other Florentine artist's depiction of the Last Supper. This artist's Equestrian Monument of Niccolo de Tolentino was a companion piece to Paolo Uccello's Funerary Monument of Sir John Hawkwood.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A compositional anomaly in this work suggests that it once hung on a side altar in its original home of the Church of San Bartolomeo a Monte Oliveto. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annunciation [accept but do not reveal Leonardo da Vinci's Annuciation]):
    Name this painting that features a central figure with an excessively long right arm resting on a book. A marble table in this painting is most likely derived from a tomb sculpted by the artist's master.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo]):
    The Annunciation is the earliest work usually attributed to this artist alone. About a decade later, this artist moved to Milan, where he was commissioned to paint the Madonna of the Rocks.
  Part 3 (ans: Fra Angelico):
    This artist's oft-imitated depiction of the Annunciation shows Gabriel with multi-colored wings surrounding Mary in a garden. This artist and Dominican friar included that work and others around the cells of his San Marco monastery.

[B3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The infant Jesus holds a goldfinch while sitting between a carnation and a pair of cherries in the Madonna and Child with Two Angels by an artist with this surname. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crivelli [accept Carlo Crivelli; accept Vittorio Crivelli]):
    Give this surname of an artist who painted Thomas Aquinas holding a model church. That Venetian artist with this surname, Carlo, showed a peacock above a light ray hitting Mary in his Annunciation, with Saint Emidius.
  Part 2 (ans: Ferrara [accept the School of Ferrara] (The Feast of the Gods was created for Alfonso I d'Este.)):
    The painter Taddeo Crivelli created illuminated manuscripts for the Borso Bible as part of a school of artists from this city. Dosso Dossi helped complete Giovanni Bellini's The Feast of the Gods for an "alabaster room" in this city.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci]):
    Lucrezia Crivelli modeled for a painting by this artist depicting her wearing a jeweled headband called a ferroniere. This artist painted another of Ludovico Sforza's mistresses in Lady with an Ermine.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Clemente Susini sculpted disturbingly erotically-positioned "Venuses" out of this substance, used for the study of anatomy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: wax [or beeswax]):
    Name this substance, used by Ercole Lelli and Anna Morandi in Bologna for sculptures ranging from ecorche, or flayed, bodies to specific organs. Encaustic painting employs a pigmented form of this substance.
  Part 2 (ans: Fontana [accept Felice Fontana or Lavinia Fontana]):
    Susini created "Anatomical Venuses" for a director of La Specola with this surname, also shared by a Mannerist portraitist from Bologna who painted herself seated at a clavichord in a self-portrait.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    This artist used wax injections to model heart valves and brain ventricles. Inspired in part by Roman theories on proportion, this artist drew Vitruvian Man.

[B5] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Claims are made, possibly based on the fictional Codex Romanoff, that this artist and his friend Botticelli started a restaurant called the Three Frogs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci (The April Fool's joke book also includes dining etiquette such as not setting other guests on fire and not licking other guests.)):
    An April Fool's joke by Jonathan and Shelagh Routh claims to have found the "kitchen notebooks" of what artist, which include inventions like a watchtower turned into a pepper mill?
  Part 2 (ans: napkin ):
    Another myth from the Kitchen Notebooks still doing the rounds is that da Vinci invented this object, for whose purpose people had previously used live rabbits instead.
  Part 3 (ans: Modernist Cuisine):
    April Fool's reviews of the Kitchen Notebooks hyperbolically compare it to this over-2,000-page cookbook by Nathan Myhrvold and a team of research chefs.

[B6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted both small and large "grotesque heads" for what may have been intended as a guidebook, for which he also produced a series of warty screaming mouths. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jusepe de Ribera [or La Spagnoletto]):
    Name this Spanish artist known for his interest in ugly subjects. He painted the bearded woman Magdalena Ventura with her husband to her side and her baby breastfeeding.
  Part 2 (ans: burials [accept word forms like burying; accept The Burial of Saint Petronilla; accept The Burial of the Count of Orgaz]):
    Ribera's studies were linked to a guidebook by Guercino, who painted an event of this type regarding Saint Petronilla. The gold clad saints Augustine and Stephen carry an armored man in a painting titled for one of these events.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci):
    Ribera's grotesque heads may have been inspired by this artist's series Five Grotesque Heads. He drew the Vitruvian Man.

[B7] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The polished jet necklace of this painting's subject may be a reference to its patron's nickname of "the Moor" due to his dark complexion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady with an Ermine):
    Name this portrait of Cecilia Gallerini holding the title white animal that symbolizes her pregnancy with Ludovico Sforza.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either underlined; accept Da Vinky?]):
    Lady with an Ermine is a portrait by this artist, whose only painting on public view in the Americas is his Portrait of Ginevra de' Benci. Lisa del Giocondo modeled for this artist's Mona Lisa.
  Part 3 (ans: ferronniere (ferr-on-NYER) [accept La Belle Ferronniere]):
    The Czartoryski (zar-tor-EE-skee) family gave Lady with an Ermine its name to differentiate it from a portrait of Francis I's mistress Lucretia Crivelli wearing this jewelry. These thin Renaissance headbands have a jewel in the center.

[B8] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his notebooks, this man drew designs for kitchen devices like a garlic press and an egg slicer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept Leonardo da Vinci]):
    Name this polymath who managed a restaurant in Florence with his friend Sandro Botticelli that emphasized presentation over portion size. Hopefully, meals there were better than the one depicted in his The Last Supper.
  Part 2 (ans: frogs [accept toads]):
    The restaurant was named The Three [these animals] of Sandro and Leonardo. In the Southern U.S., these non-fish animals are the most common targets of gigging.
  Part 3 (ans: Martino de Rossi [accept either underlined name; or Martino de Rubeis; or Martino de Como; or Martino of Como; accept Maestro Martino]):
    The only cookbook Leonardo owned included recipes attributed to this man, the first celebrity chef in Europe. This man's 1465 book The Art of Cooking was the first known cookbook to specify ingredients and cooking times.

[B9] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Giorgio Vasari's artist biographies in The Lives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giotto di Bondone [or Giottus]):
    Vasari said that "there was no uglier man in the city of Florence" than this artist. This painter of the Scrovegni Chapel walls once painted a fly so realistic that his teacher Cimabue tried to brush it off.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca [accept either underlined portion; prompt on di Benedetto] (The paintings are Flagellation of Christ and The Resurrection, respectively.)):
    Vasari's claim that this painter was blind by age 60 is often disputed. This painter from Sansepolcro depicted a scene from the passion narrative in which three men stand unaware of the main action, paralleling another painting by him in which four men sleep at the base of a tomb.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    The first biography in the second volume praises this painter's famed depiction of the Last Supper. Vasari also celebrates the ambiguous smile in this painter's portrait of Mona Lisa.

[B10] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Geography
     Leadin: The Swedish village of Jukkasjarvi ("YOO-kuss-YAIR-vee") hosts a hotel made completely from this material. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ice [or snow; accept ICEHOTEL; prompt on water or H2O] (The Inuit homes are igluit, or igloos.)):
    Name this material used by the Inuit to create homes consisting of circularly upward spiraling patterns of bricks.
  Part 2 (ans: Harbin ("har-BEAN") [or Ha'erbin; or Halbin; accept Harbin Ice and Snow Festival or Harbin International Ice and Snow Sculpture Festival or Ha'erbin Guoji Bingxue Jie]):
    In 2018, the Eindhoven Institute created a 31-foot-tall sculpture at this Chinese city's annual ice festival. This capital of Heilongjiang ("hay-lung-j'yahng") in Northeast China had a large Russian population due to the Chinese Eastern Railway.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    At the 2019 Harbin festival, Eindhoven made a 40-foot tower based on this architect's designs. This architect, who imagined specially connected canals in an "ideal city," may have designed a double-helix staircase at the Chateau de Chambord.

[B11] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A sawed-off shotgun was shot at a painting which depicts St. Anne performing this action while surrounded by two babies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pointing up [both underlined parts required; prompt on partial answers; accept the action being performed physically]):
    Identify this physical action performed by a red-robed Plato while carrying a copy of the Timaeus and talking to Aristotle in Raphael's The School of Athens. A description is acceptable.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    A depiction of Plato resembling this artist points upwards in Raphael's The School of Athens. Thomas points upwards next to Jesus with outstretched hands in this artist's fresco The Last Supper.
  Part 3 (ans: John [or St. John; or St. John the Baptist]):
    A dark portrait of a man with this name by Leonardo depicts him grasping a reed cross and pointing upwards. Scholars debate whether a feminine depiction of another man with this name to the right of Jesus in The Last Supper is actually Mary Magdalene.

[B12] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Mary Beth Edelson's collage Some Living American Women Artists replaces the faces of people in this painting with those of people like Alma Thomas and Helen Frankenthaler. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Supper (by Leonardo da Vinci)):
    Name this painting on which Marisol based a sculpture group that shows her looking at its scene. Renee Cox replaced many of this work's figures with black men in a photographic montage.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgia O'Keeffe [or Georgia Totto O'Keeffe]):
    Edelson's Last Supper replaces Christ with this artist, whose paintings of animal skulls like Ram's Head, White Hollyhock-Hills were inspired by the New Mexico landscape.
  Part 3 (ans: Audrey Flack):
    One of the few color photographs in Edelson's collage is of this photorealist, whose vanitas paintings include Wheel of Fortune and Marilyn.

[B13] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Leonardo wrote several treatises in preparation for a colossal sculpture depicting this artistic subject; that sculpture was never completed after the seventy tons of bronze needed were used to build cannons instead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: horses [or equestrian art; prompt on riders or soldiers by asking "what animal are they riding?"; prompt on battles or fights by asking "what creatures are involved in the fight?"] (The painting is Leonardo da Vinci's The Battle of Anghiari.)):
    Name this artistic subject, several of which were also depicted in a painting called "The Lost Leonardo." That painting featuring several of these subjects was accidentally melted after charcoal stoves were used to try to dry it.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan, Italy):
    Leonardo's unrealized horse sculpture was abandoned in favor of defending this city against a siege by Charles VIII. The horse was intended for this city's ruler Ludovico Sforza, who also patronized Leonardo's The Last Supper.
  Part 3 (ans: Virgin of the Rocks [or Madonna of the Rocks; accept anything with Virgin or Madonna and rocks]):
    Leonardo's Milan period produced the two versions of this painting. Both the Louvre and the British National Gallery version show the angel Uriel and John the Baptist as part of a triangular composition in the title setting.

[B14] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A recently-uncovered fresco in this ruler's castle shows sixteen mulberry trees rising from the floor towards the ceiling. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ludovico Sforza [accept Ludovico "Il Moro"; prompt on Sforza]):
    Name this ruler who commissioned the Sala delle Asse (SAH-luh DEL-lay AHS-say). Donato Montorfano's painting of this ruler and his wife standing below a crucifixion hangs opposite the most famous piece that he commissioned for the Santa Maria delle Grazie.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either underlined part]):
    Ludovico Sforza commissioned this artist to paint frescoes in the Sala delle Asse and the now-damaged Last Supper in the Santa Maria delle Grazie.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady with an Ermine [or Dama con l'ermellino]):
    Da Vinci depicted Cecilia Gallerani, Ludovico's mistress, wearing a blue and red coat while holding the title animal of this painting. This painting was mistakenly given the title of Belle Ferroniere (bel fer-oe-nyear) after it was acquired by a Polish prince.

[B15] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This was the most common medium used by artists working with a metal rod similar to a stylus, although it lost popularity following the discovery of graphite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: silverpoint [prompt on metalpoint]):
    Name this medium employed by Albrecht Durer for his 1484 Self-Portrait at the Age of 13. Hendrick Goltzius was one of the last Dutch artists to use this medium for drawing.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    This artist's silverpoint Bust of a Warrior in Profile shows the influence of his teacher, Andrea Verrocchio. Bill Gates financed the Codescope, a kiosk to closely inspect this Italian artist's Codex Leicester notebook.
  Part 3 (ans: Art Institute of Chicago [or AIC]):
    This museum owns John Wilde's The Great Autobiographical Silverpoint Drawing as well as several paintings by another silverpoint enthusiast, Ivan Albright, such as The Picture of Dorian Gray.

[B16] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: Santiago Ramon y Cajal ("ka-HALL") made many pen-and-ink drawings of what he called "arborizations" within these larger objects, which are collected in the book Beautiful [this object]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: brains [accept nerves or neurons or the central nervous system; accept specific portions of the brain like cerebrum or cerebellum; accept other body parts which contain neurons such as retina or spinal cord since Cajal drew them as well; accept Beautiful Brain: The Drawings of Santiago Ramon y Cajal; accept The Anatomy of the Brain and Nerves or Cerebri anatome]):
    Name these objects. The architect Christopher Wren provided engravings for a Thomas Willis book that first illustrated these objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo]):
    This polymath performed many dissections in order to create medical illustrations like Vitruvian Man.
  Part 3 (ans: Galen [or Claudius Galenus]):
    Vesalius illustrated flayed corpses in dramatic poses in De Humani Corporis Fabrica, which disproved many assertions by this physician. This physician popularized Hippocrates's theory of the humors.

[B17] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This sculptor destroyed the head of one of his statues in a fit of rage, but when threatened with beheading by its commissioner, replied that he could return a head to a statue but that his head couldn't be returned to his body. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea del Verrocchio ("vair-ROKE-yo") (All clues refer to his Equestrian Statue of Bartolomeo Colleoni.)):
    Name this artist who started that equestrian statue, which was finished by Alessandro Leopardi. The long sides of the pedestal for that statue have three pillars each, referencing a rumor that its subject, Bartolomeo Colleoni, had three testicles.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo]):
    Vasari claimed that Verrocchio gave up painting after this apprentice of his drew an angel in The Baptism of Christ more beautifully than any of Verrocchio's prior works. This artist demonstrated ideal proportions in Vitruvian Man.
  Part 3 (ans: Palazzo Vecchio ("pah-LOTS-oh VEK-yo") [or Palazzo della Signoria; accept Palazzo del Popolo or Palazzo dei Priori or Palazzo Ducale or Piazza della Signoria; prompt on Old Palace]):
    Leonardo likely modeled for Verrocchio's statue of David, which is housed in this building. Since it was too tall for the Florence Cathedral, Michelangelo's David was placed outside this building, but the version currently there is only a copy.

[B18] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Piero della Francesca's painting of this scene includes a man awkwardly removing his shirt in the rear-right background as a dove flies directly above a chalk-white Jesus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Baptism of Christ):
    Name this religious scene. Verrocchio and his student included a palm tree in the left background of a version of this scene currently held by the Uffizi.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either name]):
    The angel on the left of Verrocchio's baptism is attributed to this painter, who was his student. A version of the Annunciation is the earliest work traditionally attributed to this painter alone.
  Part 3 (ans: Mona Lisa [accept La Gioconda]):
    Leonardo would later go on to paint this famous portrait of a woman with an enigmatic smile.

[B19] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A portrait by Raphael held by the Galleria Borghese ("bor-GAY-zay") represents the purity of a young woman with one of these animals, over which Raphael initially painted a Catherine wheel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: unicorns [accept Young Woman with Unicorn or The Lady and the Unicorn]):
    Name these animals. A set of six tapestries whose entries represent the five senses, as well as a final entry featuring the phrase A mon seul desir ("ah mon suhl day-ZEER"), depict one of these animals alongside a lady of nobility.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    The three-quarters profile and background landscape of Raphael's Young Woman With Unicorn was allegedly inspired by one of this artist's portraits. He painted Cecilia Gallerani holding an ermine ("ER-min").
  Part 3 (ans: Metropolitan Museum of Art [or The Met]):
    This New York museum's "Cloisters" are home to the Hunt of the Unicorn tapestries. This largest art museum in the US also owns Raphael's Colonna Altarpiece.

[B20] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: One of the earliest psychobiographies is a Sigmund Freud essay titled for this artist and "a memory of his childhood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci]):
    A Virgin and Child with St. Anne supposedly shows the repressed homosexual urges of what Renaissance designer of a mechanical knight, a tank, and a flying machine?
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Kaczynski [or Theodore John Kaczynski; or the Unabomber]):
    A 1943 psychobiography of Adolf Hitler that correctly predicted his suicide two years later was written by Henry Murray, who is better known for conducting several unethical experiments at Harvard in which this mathematics prodigy was the most noteworthy participant.
  Part 3 (ans: Nathaniel Hawthorne [or Nathaniel Hathorne]):
    In The Sins of the Fathers, Frederick Crews wrote that this author's work was valuable only when read with a Freudian gaze. It's unclear whether one needs to be a Freudian to appreciate this man's campaign biography, The Life of Franklin Pierce.

[B21] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A small bridge fording a river can be seen over the left shoulder of this painting's central figure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda or La Joconde]):
    Name this painting that was copied by Raphael in a sketch of a "Young Woman on a Balcony." Small brush strokes were used to gently blend the colors around the eyes of this painting's central figure.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either underlined name]):
    This artist of the Madonna of the Rocks is believed to have depicted Lisa Gherardini in the Mona Lisa.
  Part 3 (ans: Walter Pater):
    Writing of the Mona Lisa, this author said that she is "older than the rocks among which she sits." This art critic developed his statement "All art constantly aspires toward the condition of music" in "The School of Giorgione."

[B22] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The only knowledge of this painting's layout comes from a drawing by Peter Paul Rubens, whose own Hippopotamus Hunt evidently bears similarities to this work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Battle of Anghiari):
    Name this painting that its artist abandoned when his attempt to work with oil paints on the surface of a wall went disastrously awry.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci; accept any underlined portion]):
    The Battle of Anghiari is known as the "lost" painting of this Renaissance master, whose folly of painting oil-on-wall stemmed from his bad experience frescoing The Last Supper onto the refectory wall at the Santa Maria delle Grazie.
  Part 3 (ans: Palazzo Vecchio [or Palazzo della Signoria; accept Palazzo del Popolo or Palazzo dei Priori or Palazzo Ducale; prompt on "Old Palace"]):
    The Battle of Anghiari was painted in the Salone dei Cinquecento in this Florentine building. Michelangelo's original David stood outside this building until 1873, when it was replaced by a facsimile.

[B23] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's only panel painting was a tondo commissioned to honor a marriage in the Strozzi (STROAT-see) family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Michelangelo [or Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni; that contemporary is Leonardo da Vinci]):
    Name this artist who served under the apprenticeship of Domenico Ghirlandaio. He was commissioned to paint a fresco of The Battle of Cascina (KAH-shee-nah) while a contemporary painted The Battle of Anghiari, although both paintings are now lost.
  Part 2 (ans: Sistine Chapel [or Cappella Sistina]):
    Despite a popular legend, Michelangelo did not lie down while painting the ceiling of this Vatican building, which he decorated with nine Biblical scenes, including The Creation of Adam.
  Part 3 (ans: covering nude figures [or covering genitals; or painting fig leaves or clothing over the figures; prompt on censorship]):
    Michelangelo's contemporary, Daniele da Volterra, earned the nickname "Il Braghettone" (bra-gay-TOH-nay) for modifying the Sistine Chapel's Last Judgment fresco in this manner in response to the Council of Trent. A description is acceptable.

[B24] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: These writings, which include eighteen folios on the flights of birds and a hyper-realistic map of Imola, are divided into codices named for Trivulzianus, Urbinas, Madrid, Leicester, and Arundel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci's notebooks [or da Vinci's manuscripts; or da Vinci's notes; or da Vinci's sketches; prompt on da Vinci's writings or answers that don't mention notes or manuscripts]):
    Identify these extensive writings that include a scientific study of light on a sphere, a sketch of a giant crossbow, and a schematic for a manned helicopter.
  Part 2 (ans: Vitruvian Man [or Canon of Proportions; or Proportions of Man; or Le Proporzioni del Corpo Umano Secondo Vitruvio]):
    Notes by da Vinci accompany this drawing of his, a superimposition of a man in two positions with his limbs inscribed in a square and a circle. It is named for a Roman architect.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardo's robot [or robotic knight; or mechanical knight; or automaton]):
    Da Vinci's research into the canon of proportions, of which the Vitruvian Man was a snapshot, culminated in this pulley-and-cable powered creation for a pageant held by Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan.

[B25] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some stuff about Renaissance Man Luca Pacioli:
  Part 1 (ans: double-entry bookkeeping):
    Pacioli is probably best remembered today for recording this system, used by Italian merchants at the time, whereby the financial transactions of a business are recorded as credits and as debits.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci):
    Pacioli taught mathematics to this man, a close friend of his. This lover of mirror writing illustrated Pacioli's On the Divine Proportions and himself employed a proportion scheme in his drawing of the Vitruvian Man.
  Part 3 (ans: playing chess):
    Pacioli wrote a book sometimes called The Boredom Dodger about this activity. Practitioners of this activity include Jose Capablanca, Viswanathan Anand, and the fictional Aleksandr Luzhin.
