=== STOCK CLUES: Mona Lisa ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 19 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 TELEOLOGY (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Mona Lisa [or Gioconda]
  - Salai painted a version of this painting in the private collection of the Swiss doctor Carl Mueller. [PWR]
  - A version of this painting in Rome's Chamber of Deputies is attributed to Bernadino Luini, whose name also appears on another version with a striking blue sky held by the National Gallery in Oslo, though that version was likely actually painted by Philippe de Champagne.
  - The collection of the Earl of Spencer contains a version of this painting featuring a nude, which is similar to a floral version probably painted at the Carraro Academy in Bergamo. [PWR]
  - Alternate versions of this painting with slight tweaks from the original include ones named for (*) Isleworth, The Prado, and The Hermitage. [PWR]
  - Versions of this painting in the Walters Collection and Vernon Gallery both show the flanking colonettes that were cut from the original.
  - This painting displayed the "animalism of Greece, the lust of Rome, the mysticism of the middle age" according to a passage by Walter Pater that claimed that its subject is "older than the rocks among which she sits." For 10 points, name this painting that was altered to make Marcel Duchamp's L.H.O.O.Q. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Answer: art heist [or art theft; or stealing art; or art robbery; or any answer indicating the theft/stealing of paintings/works of art; accept the theft of specific works of art such as The Scream or Mona Lisa; accept the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts Robbery or Isabella Stewart Gardner Robbery; prompt on theft, heist, robbery, stealing and word forms by asking "of what?"]
  - Description acceptable.
  - A 2023 Michael Finkle book calls this action "a dangerous obsession" and profiles one of the most successful performers of it, Stephane Breitwieser. [PWR]
  - In 1972, three men in Montreal performed this action after rappelling from a broken skylight. [PWR]
  - Guillaume Apollonaire was arrested on suspicion of having performed an instance of this action that was actually carried out by (*) Vincenzo Peruggia. [PWR]
  - Two men posed as police following a St.
  - Patrick's Day party to accomplish one instance of this crime.
  - A note reading "Thanks for the poor security" was left following a successful instance of this crime.
  - The largest unsolved crime of this type occurred in Boston when the collection of Isabella Stewart Gardner was pillaged.
  - For 10 points, what type of crime resulted in the Mona Lisa going missing from the Louvre for two years? [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Mona Lisa [accept La Gioconda before "Giocondo"]
  - Bernard Berenson wrote a notable essay on how he escaped the shamanic infuence of this work, which he claims "had sim-ply become an incubus." The artist's anatomical drawings of a young man's straight veins and an old man's bloated veins were the models respectively for the serpentine river on the lef background and the wide river on the right spanned by a bridge.
  - Vasari claimed that the artist kept a troupe of musicians and jesters on hand while painting this work to amuse the sitter so it wouldn't be infected with the melancholy that painters give their subjects.
  - A notable description asserts that the main fgure "like the vampire, has been dead many times and learned the secrets of the grave." Walter Pater claimed the main fgure of this painting "is older than the rocks among which she sits." Barely visible vertical strips of column fank the title fgure of this painting who sits on a loggia and is portrayed with the corners of her eyelids and mouth lef undefned as part the artist's trademark sfumato technique.
  - Depicting Lisa del Giocondo, for 10 points, name this portrait by Leonardo da Vinci with an enigmatic smile. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first gathering of this group took advantage of a power outage, where they aimed to make rebellious and humorous artwork with only candlelight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Incoherents):
    Name this Parisian, proto-Dadaist art movement founded by Jules Levy.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Cohl):
    This caricaturist and "father of the animated cartoon" was a member of the Incoherents. His later works include animated films like Fantasmagorie.
  Part 3 (ans: Mona Lisa 1.):
    Eugene Bataille created a depiction of this figure smoking a pipe for an 1883 exhibition with the Incoherents. Bataille's work predates a similar appropriation of this figure by Marcel Duchamp by 26 years.

[B2] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Women, women, women. Amirite? For ten points each, identify these famous subjects of paintings.
  Part 1 (ans: Mona Lisa):
    This infamous woman was the subject of a Duchamp satirical painting where he gave her a mustache. Name this subject of arguably the most recognizable Da Vinci painting ever.
  Part 2 (ans: Portrait of Madame X):
    Her black satin strapless dress caused great scandal when she was unveiled in 1884. Name this painting of a woman in which her pale face is contrasted with the dark background..
  Part 3 (ans: Woman with a Parasol):
    Claude Monet painted his wife and son in a grassy field with his wife holding the titular accessory. Name this painting sometimes called, 'The Stroll'.

[B3] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about art vandalism, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda; or La Joconde]):
    In 2022, the glass that covers this Leonardo da Vinci painting of a woman with an enigmatic expression was smeared with cake.
  Part 2 (ans: Rembrandt [or Rembrandt van Rijn or Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn]):
    In 1985, sulfuric acid was thrown on this artist's painting of Danaе ("duh-NAY-ee") before it was sliced with a knife. This artist's wife Saskia was the original model for Danaе in that painting.
  Part 3 (ans: My Bed [prompt on bed or Tracey Emin's bed or similar descriptions; prompt on Two Naked Men Jump into Tracey's Bed]):
    Cai Yuan ("tsai y'wen") and Jian Jun Xi ("j'yen j'win shee") jumped on this Tracey Emin piece while shirtless for the unlicensed performance "Two Naked Men Jump Into" this installation. Empty liquor bottles, condoms, and other detritus clutter a blue rug next to this installation's title object.

[B4] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist from this country created a series of Pop-influenced paintings that adapted a photo of a young couple taken shortly before they threw themselves off a dam. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Colombia [or Republic of Colombia]):
    Name this home country of that artist of The Sisga ("SEEZ-gah") Suicides, Beatriz Gonzalez. Another artist from here, Doris Salcedo, created a long crack along the floor of the Tate Modern's Turbine Hall for her work Shibboleth.
  Part 2 (ans: silhouette [prompt on cut-outs]):
    In Anonymous Auras, Gonzalez filled 8,957 niches in the walls of Bogota's Central Cemetery with images in this style. In panoramic friezes like Darkytown Rebellion, Kara Walker rendered her figures in this style.
  Part 3 (ans: Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda]):
    Gonzalez often applied enamel to furniture, including a coat rack whose mirror she replaced with a version of this painting. Marcel Duchamp parodied this painting by adding a mustache in L.H.O.O.Q.

[B5] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about photographer Yasumasa Morimura, who is well known for modifying pre-existing Western art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Olympia):
    In this controversial painting, Morimura replaced Victorine Meurent's figure with that of a stereotypical geisha. The African maid in the background of this painting is replaced by a European male who wears a top hat.
  Part 2 (ans: Alberto Korda):
    Another example of Morimura's "appropriation" art is the insertion of his face into Guerrillero Heroico("ger-ree-YAIR-oh ay-ROW-ee-koh"), an iconic portrait of Che Guevara taken by this Cuban photographer.
  Part 3 (ans: Mona Lisa):
    Yasumasa Morimura also placed himself in this famous portrait of a woman with an enigmatic smile by Leonardo da Vinci.

[B6] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After a sculpture of a bird by this artist was damaged by dynamite, he donated an identical sculpture to stand next to the damaged one. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Botero Angulo):
    Name this Colombian artist known for depicting figures in an exaggeratedly round manner.
  Part 2 (ans: Mona Lisa [or Lisa; or Lisa del Giocondo; or La Golconda or La Joconde; prompt on L.H.O.O.Q.]):
    Botero depicted this woman with an enlarged head at the age of twelve. Marcel Duchamp added a goatee to a picture of this woman on a postcard.
  Part 3 (ans: Diego Velazquez):
    Botero also created a double self-portrait based on a painting by this artist. This artist appears with the red cross of the Order of Santiago on his chest as he looks into an easel on the left side of his masterpiece Las Meninas.

[B7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A smoking pipe was added to this image for a piece that the artist Sapeck created as part of the short-lived "Incoherents" art movement of the 1880s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Mona Lisa [or La Joconde; or La Gioconda]):
    Name this image that another artist scribbled on for a work of appropriation art that was published in 391 magazine with the caption L.H.O.O.Q. ("L-ahsh-O-O-koo")
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    This artist drew a mustache on a reproduction of the Mona Lisa to create L.H.O.O.Q. His ready-made Fountain consists of a urinal labelled with the name "R. Mutt."
  Part 3 (ans: Asger Jorn ("ESS-ker YORN")):
    This artist parodied L.H.O.O.Q. with The Avant-Garde Doesn't Give Up, which depicts a picture of a schoolgirl with a drawn-on mustache. This Danish painter of Stalingrad led the COBRA movement with Karel Appel and collaborated with Guy Debord ("ghee duh-BOR") on Memoires ("maym-WAHR").

[B8] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Piero della Francesca's painting of this scene includes a man awkwardly removing his shirt in the rear-right background as a dove flies directly above a chalk-white Jesus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Baptism of Christ):
    Name this religious scene. Verrocchio and his student included a palm tree in the left background of a version of this scene currently held by the Uffizi.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either name]):
    The angel on the left of Verrocchio's baptism is attributed to this painter, who was his student. A version of the Annunciation is the earliest work traditionally attributed to this painter alone.
  Part 3 (ans: Mona Lisa [accept La Gioconda]):
    Leonardo would later go on to paint this famous portrait of a woman with an enigmatic smile.

[B9] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A small bridge fording a river can be seen over the left shoulder of this painting's central figure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda or La Joconde]):
    Name this painting that was copied by Raphael in a sketch of a "Young Woman on a Balcony." Small brush strokes were used to gently blend the colors around the eyes of this painting's central figure.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either underlined name]):
    This artist of the Madonna of the Rocks is believed to have depicted Lisa Gherardini in the Mona Lisa.
  Part 3 (ans: Walter Pater):
    Writing of the Mona Lisa, this author said that she is "older than the rocks among which she sits." This art critic developed his statement "All art constantly aspires toward the condition of music" in "The School of Giorgione."

[B10] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work's title is a pun on a French expression which refers to a nymphomaniac woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L.H.O.O.Q. ["el ash oh oh ku"]):
    Name this 1919 readymade, in which an artist added a beard and moustache to a postcard reproduction of a world-famous painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Mona Lisa (accept La Gioconda)):
    This Leonardo da Vinci portrait served as the objet trouve for Marcel Duchamps' L.H.O.O.Q. It attracts millions of visitors every year at the Louvre.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Metzinger):
    Andre Salmon dubbed this artist's portrait of a woman holding a spoon, Tea Time, his artistic movement's "Mona Lisa". This artist's temporary Divisionist style is demonstrated in his Two Nudes in an Exotic Landscape.

[B11] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The initials "W.C.W." at the bottom of this painting refer to the poet who inspired it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold):
    Name this Charles Demuth painting that contains three of the title numerals.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Indiana):
    This artist stenciled "THE FIGURE 5" below his riff on Charles Demuth's I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. Visitors at the 1964 New York World's Fair were confused by a lighted sculpture by this pop artist of the word "EAT" that was not advertising a restaurant.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda]):
    Jasper Johns's similar painting, Figure 7, features the title numeral above a reproduction of this painting. A woman from the Gherardini family may be the person smiling in this Leonardo da Vinci painting.

[B12] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Here are three questions on a Victorian art critic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walter Horatio Pater):
    This unsuccessful applicant for Oxford's Slade Professorship of Art wrote that "All art constantly aspires towards the condition of music" in Studies in the History of the Renaissance.
  Part 2 (ans: Mona Lisa or La Gioconda):
    In what has been called "probably still the most famous piece of writing about any picture in the world," Pater compares the smiling title figure of this da Vinci painting to a vampire.
  Part 3 (ans: Giorgione [or Giorgio Barbarelli da Castelfranco]):
    This Venetian painter, a student of Bellini and elder contemporary of Titian, was described as "a live flame...in those shadowy times" by Pater. The six works that are attributed to him with certainty include Sleeping Venus and The Tempest.

[B13] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter's Still Life No. 35 shows a six-pack of Royal Crown Cola on a table next to two lemons, a loaf of white bread, and a pack of cigarettes, all in front of a travel advertisement featuring an airplane.For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tom Wesselmann):
    Name this Pop artist whose sculpture Dropped Bra is a crumpled tangle of aluminum sheets shaped to look like a bra dropped on the ground. He is best-known for his Great American Nude series.
  Part 2 (ans: Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda]):
    Great American Nude, No. 31 shows this painting hanging on a red-and-white striped wall. This painting peeks out from behind a windowed wall in No. 35, and was given a mustache by Duchamp in L.H.O.O.Q.
  Part 3 (ans: Piet Mondrian [or Pieter Cornelis Mondrian]):
    In Still Life, No. 20, Wesselmann placed a red cabinet door painted with a white star next to a work by this man. This artist of Gray Tree broke from his main movement because another artist had used diagonal lines.

[B14] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man legendarily wrote an ode to his own appendix while it was being removed, and he supposedly tried out cannibalism while in Libya. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriele D'Annunzio):
    Identify this Italian poet and ardent Fascist who ruled the port city of Fiume as a dictator from 1919 until 1920.
  Part 2 (ans: Yugoslavia):
    Although Fiume's fate was disputed in the inter-war years, it was definitively transferred to this no-longer-extant country following World War II. This nation broke from Stalin under Tito.
  Part 3 (ans: Stealing the Mona Lisa [or Stealing La Giocanda; accept equivalents]):
    Some conspiracy theories hold that D'Annunzio was guilty of this 1911 crime. Guillaume Apollinaire was briefly arrested as a suspect in this crime, although the real culprit was an Italian patriot named Vincenzo Peruggia.

[B15] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: On the back of one of this painter's portraits are the words "beauty adorns virtue" and a sprig of juniper. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this artist of a portrait of Ginevra de' Benci, as well as a portrait of an unknown woman titled La belle ferronniere, and a portrait of Cecilia Gallerani holding an animal.
  Part 2 (ans: Mona Lisa [or La Gioconda]):
    The aforementioned works are three of only four portraits of women by Leonardo. The fourth is, of course, this painting of a woman with an enigmatic smile.
  Part 3 (ans: Milano):
    A drawing of a fiancee from this city is also sometimes attributed to Leonardo. His Last Supper can be found in this city's church of Santa Maria della Grazie.
