=== STOCK CLUES: The Last Supper ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 38 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Answer: Joseph of Arimathea [accept Josephus of Arimathea before "this figure's son" and accept Josephe or Josephes in place of "Josephus"; prompt on Joseph] (Robert de Boron's Joseph d'Arimathie was significant for its Christianization of the Grail's origin, tracing it to a cup used by Jesus at the Last Supper.)
  - This figure experienced a 42 year imprisonment by Vespasian as only three days from Friday to Sunday. [PWR]
  - An angel in the form of a white knight rescued Evalach after he prayed upon a shield given to him by this figure's son, who later used his bloody nose to draw a cross upon it. [PWR]
  - That shield was eventually claimed from the tomb of Nasciens by a knight who became king of Sarras, which this figure and his son first evangelized. [PWR]
  - Along with Merlin and Percival, a namesake romance about the life of this figure formed a trilogy by Robert de Boron.
  - After meeting this figure, (*) Galahad chose to die and ascend to Heaven.
  - This figure's travels with Jesus may have inspired William Blake's "Jerusalem." This tin merchant's staff blossomed into the Holy Thorn of Glastonbury Abbey.
  - For 10 points, the Holy Grail was brought to Britain by what saint, a member of the Sanhedrin who provided a tomb for Jesus? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Last Supper [or L'Ultima Cena; accept Il Cenacolo; prompt on Feast at the House of Levi with "What was the work originally named as?" until Levi is mentioned]
  - A fresco of this scene includes wildly patterned marble panels and two sphinx statues around its subjects. [PWR]
  - That painting of this scene housed in Florence's Sant'Apollonia is by Andrea del Castagno. [PWR]
  - The Inquisition ordered an artist to rename a painting of this scene due to its inclusion of foreign soldiers. [PWR]
  - That painting originally about this scene was altered into a scene focusing on the (*) tax collector Levi by Paolo Veronese. [PWR]
  - Contrary to most versions, a painting of this scene whose only light sources are a ceiling lamp and a halo was aligned diagonally.
  - Ludovico Sforza commissioned a painting of this scene for the refectory of the Santa Maria delle Grazie, which depicts a salt cellar being tipped over by Judas.
  - For 10 points, name this scene showing Jesus and his Twelve Apostles on the same side of a long table in a mural by Leonardo da Vinci. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: feast [accept meal or supper or dinner or other equivalents; accept convito or festino; accept The Feast of the Gods or Il festino degli dei; accept The Feast in the House of Levi; accept The Last Supper]
  - Dosso Dossi added a pheasant to the landscape of a painting of one of these events that was commissioned for the Duke of Ferrara's alabaster study. [PWR]
  - That painting of one of these events includes an early depiction of Chinese porcelain, which is carried by two figures near Silenus's ass. [PWR]
  - The inclusion of German soldiers in a painting of one of these events spurred accusations of (*) heresy that forced the artist to change the painting's name. [PWR]
  - Giovanni Bellini painted one of these events of the Gods, and a Paolo Veronese painting set in the House of Levi depicts one of them.
  - One of these events titles a painting whose two primary sources of light are a ceiling lamp and the central figure's halo.
  - For 10 points, what kind of event is portrayed in a diagonally-oriented Tintoretto painting? [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo; or L'Ultima Cena; do not accept or prompt on "Lord's Supper"]
  - In Pavel Filonov's version of this scene, angular buildings reminiscent of Pskov (pss-KOFF) School iconography are tessellated in the background.
  - In Nikolai Ge's (GAY's) version of this scene, a man stands facing the viewer holding up a large cloth, casting a huge shadow over the rest of the scene.
  - Another version of this scene takes an oblique angle and features transparent angels floating above.
  - In Peter Paul Rubens's version of this scene, an open book sits between two candles in the upper right, and a dog lays underneath two characters' bare feet.
  - Tintoretto executed this scene in the 1590s, and another version of this scene is located in the refectory of the Santa Maria delle Grazie (DEL-lay GRAHT-see-ay) in Milan.
  - For 10 points, name this scene that in Leonardo's version has all thirteen men seated on the same side of the table. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo or L'Ultima Cena]
  - Sabrina Galitzia theorized that the central lunette above a painting of this scene contains its artist's prediction of the end of the world in the year 4006. [PWR]
  - Several restorations of that version of this scene were necessitated by it being struck by bombs in 1943, though it was protected by sandbags in the refectory in which it is housed. [PWR]
  - A ghostly version of this scene is only lit by a single lamp on the left, out of which angels fly. [PWR]
  - A large aureole surrounds the main figure in that (*) diagonally oriented version of this scene executed by Tintoretto. [PWR]
  - The question "Lord, is it I?" is posed by a group of James, Thomas, and Philip in quizzical reaction to an announcement by this scene's central figure in the most famous version, which is by Leonardo da Vinci.
  - For 10 points, name this scene in which Jesus dines with 12 disciples. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo or L'Ultima Cena]
  - Vasari relates that on many days, the artist of this work would often stand on the scaffolding without picking his brush only to study its tone. [PWR]
  - Preliminary sketches for this work were often done in red chalk, which are still preserved in its artist's notebooks. [PWR]
  - As a man recoils in this painting, he upsets the balances of a salt cellar that are next to some pewter (*) dishes. [PWR]
  - Found in the refectory of the Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan, this painting depicts a group of figures during the exact moment they ask "Lord is it I?", unlike the moment after as seen in earlier versions.
  - However, the only one not asking that question has his face in the dark and is Judas.
  - For 10 points, name this painting by Da Vinci which depicts the 12 apostles and Jesus during the title meal. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist's version of this scene for the Badia di Passignano was primarily painted by his brother Davide ("DA-vee-day") and features a man in the center facing away from the viewer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Supper (The first version is Tintoretto's.)):
    Name this scene whose Ognissanti version by Domenico Ghirlandaio portrays John sleeping. In another version of this scene, near-transparent angels orbit a hanging oil lamp over a man in a pink and blue robe.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    This student of Ghirlandaio used Jesus's cheek as the vanishing point in his version of The Last Supper in the Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan. This painter also drew the Vitruvian Man.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea del Castagno [or Andrea di Bartolo di Bargilla]):
    Ghirlandaio was likely influenced by this other Florentine artist's depiction of the Last Supper. This artist's Equestrian Monument of Niccolo de Tolentino was a companion piece to Paolo Uccello's Funerary Monument of Sir John Hawkwood.

[B2] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Take a trip to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Watson and the Shark):
    Within one of its inner galleries, the West Wing of the NGA houses this painting, whose central figure's pose was inspired by the Belvedere Torso. This painting is famously set off the coast of Cuba.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper 1.):
    Near the exit of the West Wing lies a painting of this scene by Salvador Dali, in which a transparent torso hovers above the central figure. In a painting of this scene by Emil Nolde, a figure with a yellow face and a red robe holds a cup as people gather around him.
  Part 3 (ans: birds [do not accept or prompt on any specific type of bird]):
    Just a few blocks down from the NGA is its sculpture garden, which houses a structure by Joan Miro of this animal, named Personnage Gothique, [this animal]-Flash.

[B3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jane Fortune's book on the "Forgotten Artists of Florence," Invisible Women, devotes a chapter to the all-women workshop of Sister Plautilla Nelli. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Last Supper):
    Nelli's 21-foot version of this scene was restored by Fortune's Advancing Women Artists group, which raised funds by allowing donors to "adopt" each of the 12 apostles who sit at a table with Jesus.
  Part 2 (ans: Girolamo Savonarola):
    Nelli and other nuns were encouraged to paint by this man, whose portraitist Fra Bartolomeo was often copied by Nelli. This friar inspired Sandro Botticelli's shift to religious subjects in paintings like The Mystical Nativity.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea del Sarto [or Andrea del Sarto; or Andrea d'Agnolo; accept Museum of the Last Supper of Andrea del Sarto]):
    Many of Nelli's restored works reside at a San Salvi museum that houses this artist's Last Supper. The AWA also restored Irene Parenti Duclos's copy of this artist's lunette fresco Madonna del Sacco, for which his wife may have modeled.

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting depicting one of these events inspired Mary Beth Edelson to replace men with cut-out photographs of Some Living American Women Artists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: supper [or a dinner party; accept The Dinner Party; accept The Last Supper; prompt on meals; prompt on party or parties]):
    Name these events that form the setting of a triangular installation with circular, vulva-like artworks at spots reserved for prominent women like Artemisia Gentileschi and Mary Wollstonecraft.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgia O'Keeffe [or Georgia Totto O'Keeffe]):
    This artist replaces Jesus Christ in Edelson's collage. The last place setting in Judy Chicago's Dinner Party represents this artist who created many paintings of flowers and cow skulls in New Mexico.
  Part 3 (ans: Marisol [or Marisol Escobar]):
    This Venezuelan-American Pop artist created a sculptural Self-Portrait Looking at The Last Supper and depicted fifteen figures made of carved wood and adorned in found consumer goods in her sculpture The Party.

[B5] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Mary Beth Edelson's collage Some Living American Women Artists replaces the faces of people in this painting with those of people like Alma Thomas and Helen Frankenthaler. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Supper (by Leonardo da Vinci)):
    Name this painting on which Marisol based a sculpture group that shows her looking at its scene. Renee Cox replaced many of this work's figures with black men in a photographic montage.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgia O'Keeffe [or Georgia Totto O'Keeffe]):
    Edelson's Last Supper replaces Christ with this artist, whose paintings of animal skulls like Ram's Head, White Hollyhock-Hills were inspired by the New Mexico landscape.
  Part 3 (ans: Audrey Flack):
    One of the few color photographs in Edelson's collage is of this photorealist, whose vanitas paintings include Wheel of Fortune and Marilyn.

[B6] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's gigantic mural Paradise is one of the world's largest paintings, at over 25 meters long, and decorates the main hall of the Doge's Palace. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin]):
    Name this Venetian artist whose cycle about the patron saint of his city, Saint Mark, includes his paintings Saint Mark's Body Brought to Venice and The Miracle of the Slave.
  Part 2 (ans: Bacchus AND Ariadne [accept Dionysus in place of "Bacchus"] (The other artist is Titian.)):
    Tintoretto's depiction of Venus and these two figures is widely regarded as a reference to Venice's traditional "wedding to the sea" ceremony. In another Venetian artist's painting titled for these two figures, a pair of cheetahs look out at the sea on the left and snakes strangle a man on the right.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Tintoretto's less Venetian-themed works include two depictions of this scene, one of which oddly uses a diagonal angle for the central table. Leonardo's version of this scene shows Judas whispering.

[B7] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted Two Hunting Dogs tied to a tree stump in one of the earliest paintings to feature animals as the primary subject. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacopo Bassano [or Jacopo dal Ponte]):
    Name this 16th century Venetian artist of pioneering nocturnal scenes, such as the Baptism of Christ he left unfinished at his death at age 82. This man took his surname from the name of the village near Venice where he lived and trained his sons Francesco, Giovanni, Leandro, and Girolamo as artists.
  Part 2 (ans: The Wedding at Cana [or The Wedding Feast at Cana] (by Paolo Veronese)):
    Bassano plays the flute in an ensemble composed of the leaders of the Venetian school in this largest painting at the Louvre, which depicts historical figures such as Suleiman I attending the title event.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Tintoretto cribbed Bassano's hunting dogs for his painting Christ Washing the Disciples' Feet, a companion piece to his 1547 version of this scene at San Marcuola. Nearly fifty years later, Tintoretto painted his far better known, diagonally-oriented version of this scene.

[B8] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a section of his most famous book, this man recommended adding the yolk of a "country-laid" egg if an azure pigment turns out too pale. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cennino (d'Andrea) Cennini):
    Name this first European author to write extensively about the use of egg tempera in painting, doing so in his Il libro dell'arte, sometimes translated as The Craftsman's Handbook.
  Part 2 (ans: vermilion):
    In his discussion of this pigment, Cennini warned that unless it is tempered or mixed with oil, it tends to decompose into elemental mercury and turn black. Titian made heavy use of this cinnabar-based scarlet pigment, which was later replaced by the less toxic cadmium red.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardoda Vinci [accept either underlined part] (The work is The Last Supper.)):
    Cennini also recommended the use of white lead as an undercoat in the finishing stages of fresco-secco. This later artist's decision to use that technique throughout his work on a painting in the refectory of the Santa Maria delle Grazie caused it to start peeling off the wall almost immediately.

[B9] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2012, elderly parishioner Cecilia Gimenez "restored" this Elias Garcia Martinez fresco in Borja, Spain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ecce Homo [or Behold the Man]):
    Name this "restored" painting, described as "crayon sketch of a very hairy monkey in an ill-fitting tunic" after it became an internet sensation.
  Part 2 (ans: Portrait of a Carthusian):
    In 1994, the Metropolitan Museum of Art removed a halo, determined to be a later addition, from this Petrus Christi painting, notable for including a trompe l'oeil fly.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Supper [or L'Ultima Cena]):
    18th-century attempts to "restore" this much-abused Leonardo mural included Michelangelo Bellotti covering it in a layer of oil, and Giuseppe Mazza dousing it in caustic soda because he thought it was a fresco.

[B10] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one pair of works by this artist, the body of Saint Mark can be seen being discovered in a hallway and subsequently carried into Venice. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Jacopo Tintoretto [The title event is the Miracle of the Slave]):
    Name this artist, who in another work depicted a man in a white turban standing above a variety of broken tools while being interrupted by the title event.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper [Il Cenacolo or L'Ultima Cena]):
    Tintoretto's best-known work is a diagonal version of this scene housed in Venice's San Giorgio Maggiore. Christ is seated with outstretched arms in Da Vinci's depiction of this biblical scene.
  Part 3 (ans: The Origin of the Milky Way):
    In this other Tintoretto work, a dark eagle can be seen carrying a crab above two peacocks in the lower right corner. Stars emerge from Hera's hand while she nurses an infant Hercules in this painting.

[B11] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director's split-screen film Chelsea Girls, which he created with Paul Morrissey, features many of his "superstars." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andy Warhol [Andrew Warhola]):
    Name this director who would later be shot by one of his actors, Valerie Solanas. His other art films include Sleep and Empire, which is a silent eight-hour long shot of the Empire State Building.
  Part 2 (ans: Campbell's Soup Cans [accept descriptions of cans that contain soup]):
    Warhol's 32 canvases of these food containers are displayed at the MoMA. They include ones labeled "tomato rice," "beef," and "asparagus."
  Part 3 (ans:  The Last Supper [accept Sixty Last Suppers; accept The Sacrament of the Last Supper (by Salvador Dali)]):
    Warhol's last artwork consisted of sixty silkscreen prints of this scene, which also makes up his painting The Big C. A dodecahedron appears in a version of this scene in the National Gallery of Art.

[B12] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A sculpture by Marisol Escobar depicts herself looking at this scene, which Renee Cox created a "Yo Mama's" version of. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Last Supper [prompt on The Upper Room]):
    Name this event, the setting of which names a Chris Ofili installation featuring paintings of Rhesus monkeys and pieces of elephant dung.
  Part 2 (ans: Young British Artists [or YBA; or Brit artists]):
    The Tate's purchase of Chris Ofili's The Upper Room in 2005 sparked protests by opponents of this movement that Ofili belongs to. Tracey Emin and Damien Hirst are members of this group.
  Part 3 (ans: the Holy Virgin Mary [or Madonna; or the Virgin; prompt on Mary]):
    Ofili had earlier used elephant dung for a painting of this person in a blue robe. This biblical woman cradles her dead son in Michelangelo's Pieta sculpture.

[B13] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A man with a nosebleed holds a handkerchief at the left of this painting, whose center includes a tense stare-off between a cat under a table and a dog. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Feast in the House of Levi):
    Name this painting, effectively trisected by two giant columns separating three archways. It controversially depicted Moors and Germans frolicking amidst a Biblical scene.
  Part 2 (ans: Paolo Veronese [or Paolo Cagliari; or Paolo Caliari]):
    This Venetian artist of The Wedding at Cana faced an interrogation by the Inquisition over the non-religious details he included in his painting eventually titled The Feast in the House of Levi.
  Part 3 (ans: the Last Supper):
    Despite its title, The Feast in the House of Levi actually depicts this other scene in the center, as Veronese had originally intended. Veronese's contemporary Tintoretto painted this dinner scene oriented around a diagonal table.

[B14] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting hung in the monastery at San Giorgio Maggiore for 235 years before it was plundered by Napoleon and shipped off to Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Wedding at Cana):
    Name this massive oil painting, which shows Suleiman the Magnificent among numerous historical figures seated at a massive table, at whose center Jesus sits.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo; or L'Ultima Cena]):
    Paolo Veronese, the painter of Wedding at Cana, created a version of this scene which he later retitled Feast in the House of Levi at the Church's request. Da Vinci made notable use of perspective in his depiction of this scene.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Megas Alexandros; or Alexander III of Macedon]):
    This man appears anachronistically dressed in pink Renaissance-era clothing in a Veronese painting of people kneeling before him. Another anachronistic depiction of this man is a "world landscape" that shows a massive fictitious mountain near Cyprus in the background.

[B15] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A cat sniffs inside a basket in the foreground of this painting, in which angels swirl out from the smoke of an oil lamp that illuminates the scene alongside a halo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Name this large painting, located in the choir of San Giorgio Maggiore, in which a multitude of people sit at a long, diagonally-arranged table.
  Part 2 (ans: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin; or Jacopo Robusti; or Il Furioso]):
    This Venetian protege of Titian, whose father was a dyer, painted the aforementioned rendition of The Last Supper.
  Part 3 (ans: Paradise):
    Bigger still than The Last Supper is this Tintoretto painting, often said to be the largest ever committed to canvas, which was completed with the help of his son Domenico. Viewed from afar, the throngs of people in this incredibly crowded painting look like waves.

[B16] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist probably used a photograph of the socialist leader Alexander Herzen as the basis for the Jesus figure in one of his paintings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai [Nikolaevich] Ge):
    Name this member of the Peredvizhniki who painted a particularly haggard-looking Christ in What is Truth? Nikolai Yaroshenko's portrait of this artist shows him as an old bearded man, seated with his arms folded on a desk.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper):
    In Ge's version of this scene, Judas's dark shadow starkly contrasts with the softly candle-lit background, in which the rest of the disciples contemplate what Jesus has just said. Tintoretto painted this scene on a diagonal axis.
  Part 3 (ans: Pavel [Mikhailovich] Tretyakov):
    This businessman was a major patron of all Peredvizhniki artists. This collector's namesake gallery now holds Kasemir Malevich's Black Square and is the site of Moscow's Fallen Monuments Park.

[B17] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting is the most famous in its artist's St. Mark series. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Miracle of the Slave [accept The Miracle of St. Mark]):
    Name this painting that shows an upside down St. Mark at the top, as he saves the title figure, who lies on the ground at the bottom of this scene.
  Part 2 (ans: Tintoretto [accept Jacopo Comin]):
    This Italian painted The Miracle of the Slave. He also depicted Hera suckling Hercules in The Origin of the Milky Way.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Among the works of Tintoretto is a depiction of this scene, which includes a diagonal representation of the apostles sitting at a table. A more famous depiction of this scene was created by Da Vinci.

[B18] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He depicted a battle between Venetians and the Maximilian I-led Austrians in his The Siege of Asola, and in another work he shows Heracles suckling Hera's breast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Robusti]):
    Name this artist of the gigantic canvas Paradise, who also painted a series about the life of St. Mark. Another of his works shows a man in a red cloth hanging upside down at the top, and is entitled Miracle of the Slave.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Tintoretto painted a famous depiction of this scene, in which Jesus is depicted sitting with his disciples at a table slanted away from the viewer. Da Vinci painted another version of this scene.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Ge):
    This Russian artist painted a version of the Last Supper in which an angel appears on the right and Jesus reclines on a bed. He also painted a portrait of Leo Tolstoy and a scene of Christ praying in Gethesmane.

[B19] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about famous works of art housed in churches dedicated to the Virgin Mary, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Milan's Santa Maria della Grazie is a convent that houses this fresco by Leonardo Da Vinci. This depiction of a famous scene in the life of Christ began to decay months after it was painted.
  Part 2 (ans: Brancacci Chapel):
    This chapel in the Santa Maria del Carmine in Florence houses most of the known works of Massacio, including his Expulsion from the Garden and The Tribute Money.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Judgment):
    The interior of the dome of the Santa Maria della Fiore in Florence contains Vasari's depiction of this Biblical scene. Luca Signorelli's frecoes of this scene adorn the Orvieto Cathedral.
