=== STOCK CLUES: Franklin Delano Roosevelt ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 56 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
  - Rayford Logan, who worked with this politician, drafted legislation that expanded the role of Black soldiers in the military.
  - Before joining Howard University, William Hastie was sent by this politician to the Virgin Islands.
  - This politician's wife took a heavily publicized flight with the "Father of Black Aviation," C.
  - Alfred Anderson.
  - This politician established the Slave Narrative Collection as part of the Federal Writers' Project.
  - Robert C.
  - Weaver and National Youth Association head Mary McLeod were among the 45 members of this president's "Black Cabinet." The Fair Employment Practice Committee was created by this president, who hired thousands of Black workers for the Works Progress Administration.
  - For 10 points, name this president who advocated for Black advancement through his New Deal. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 City Limits (2025) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt] ~31345~
  - 3,500 swimmers can fit into a massive pool in Yorktown in Westchester County, New York named for this man. [PWR]
  - A 120-by-100-foot megaswing is the focal point of the recently redesigned Anna C. [PWR]
  - Verna Playground in a Philadelphia park named for this man. [PWR]
  - This man is the namesake of an island once called Varkens Eylandt that since the 19th century has featured the notorious Octagon Tower, once part of a Lunatic Asylum. [PWR]
  - A lake named for this man is the primary reservoir for Stevens County, Washington and was formed by the (*) Grand Coulee Dam. [PWR]
  - An island named for this man in the East River used to be called Welfare Island.
  - A memorial to this man in DC's Tidal Basin features George Segal sculptures of people listening to a radio broadcast and waiting in a breadline.
  - For 10 points, name this president whose library is in Hyde Park, New York. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
  - This leader codified the declarative theory of statehood at an international conference attended by female representative Sophonisba Breckinridge.
  - At the Montevideo Convention, this leader announced an initiative under which he commissioned the film Saludos Amigos.
  - Samba performer Carmen Miranda was criticized for her work under this leader, who drafted the constitution of Haiti and later ended its occupation.
  - To remedy a labor shortage, this leader hired Mexican farmworkers under the Bracero Program, which his successor ended.
  - This man's Secretary of State, Cordell Hull, sent Walt Disney on a tour of South America as part of his Good Neighbor policy.
  - For 10 points, name this president whose diplomacy in Latin America earned him support during World War II. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]
  - A 1994 book recalls how this politician corresponded with Lucy Rutherfurd despite his wife's opposition. [PWR]
  - That book debates whether this politician had a sexual affair with his private secretary Missy LeHand. [PWR]
  - This politician was called "the soldier of freedom" and "the lion and the fox" in biographies by James MacGregor Burns.
  - Doris Kearns Goodwin conducted 86 interviews for a book on this politician and his wife titled (*) No Ordinary Time. [PWR]
  - Books on "The Age of" this non-JFK president by Arthur Schlesinger Jr. focus on his fight to pass legislation despite opposition from the "Four Horsemen." Robert Stinnett's Day of Deceit alleges this president deliberately provoked an attack but withheld information from Husband Kimmel and the Pacific Fleet.
  - For 10 points, name this president whose life is chronicled in Susan Dunn's 1940. [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Franklin Delano Roosevelt running for a third term [accept Franklin Delano Roosevelt running in the 1940 presidential election until "1940" is read; accept FDR in place of "Roosevelt"; accept descriptions like more than two terms in place of "third term"; prompt on Franklin Delano Roosevelt running for President or FDR running for reelection or equivalents; reject answers that specify a "fourth term"] (Eleanor Roosevelt said, "This is no ordinary time" during a speech to quell dissent at the 1940 DNC.)
  - Description acceptable.
  - Increasing public speculation about this decision led political cartoonists to depict its central figure as the Sphinx.
  - In the aftermath of this decision, a politician delighted crowds by repeatedly rhyming the names "Martin, Barton, and Fish." The carefully stage-managed announcement of this decision included a crowd planted with slogan-chanting supporters, who were egged on by Ed Kelly loyalist Thomas Garry, the so-called "voice from the sewers." This decision inspired the claim that "this is no ordinary time," which titles Doris Kearns Goodwin's biography of its central figure.
  - The fallout from this decision, which sank the political ambitions of James Farley and John Nance Garner, caused the passage of the 22nd Amendment.
  - For 10 points, identify this decision that allowed an incumbent president to defeat Wendell Willkie in the 1940 election. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt] (The case from the leadin is called Humphrey's Executor.)
  - This president's authority to fire a member of the FTC was denied in a case argued by the executors of the estate of the man in question, William Humphrey.
  - Frank Gannett was a news media ally who turned against a plan by this president that failed partly due to Joseph Taylor Robinson's death from a heart attack. [PWR]
  - "Black Monday" and "White Monday" were respectively defeats and victories for this president, who nominated (*) Robert Jackson to both the Cabinet and the Supreme Court.
  - He signed a law that let meat producers create "straight killing" codes, which were struck down in the "sick chicken" case.
  - A Court shift towards upholding this President's policies was signaled by Owen Roberts's "switch in time that saved nine." For 10 points, what president outlined his court-packing plan in fireside chats? [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 FINE AARTS (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: the Roosevelt family [accept Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt, Franklin Delano Roosevelt]
  - Elizabeth Shoumatoff created an unfinished portrait of one member of this family before his death later that day. [PWR]
  - Later, she replicated that portrait largely from memory in order to finish it. [PWR]
  - A portrait of a different member of this family was supposedly created during a half an hour lunch break due to its subject's busy schedule. [PWR]
  - The pose for that portrait was supposedly found because the subject turned around at a (*) stair post and yelled "Don't I!" during a conversation with the artist about where to set the painting. [PWR]
  - That portrait of a member of this family was created to replace one by Theobald Chartran nicknamed the "mewling cat." John Singer Sargent painted a famous portrait of one member of, for 10 points, what American political family that fostered presidents such as Franklin Delano and Theodore. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Answer: presidential portraits [accept reasonable equivalents that mention depictions of a president, prompt on portraits; accept specifically portraits of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, portraits of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, portraits of Bill Clinton, or portraits of Barack Obama until "Barack" is read] <MS>
  - An unusual one of these works by Douglas Chandor includes studies of hands holding objects such as eyeglasses, a cigarette, and a red drawing pencil. [PWR]
  - A man grips the armrest of a chair that blends into a background of green and yellow paint swaths in one of these works that the artist created in Palm Beach, where she was impressed by the subject's "grape"-colored eyes. [PWR]
  - A large-scale one of these works, which was produced in the artist's signature style of applying a grid to a photograph and filling each square with an abstract module, focuses on the subject's (*) ruddy red nose. [PWR]
  - In addition to those works by Elaine DeKooning and Chuck Close respectively, one of these works surrounds the seated subject with a hedge of foliage, which includes chrysanthemums and jasmine to symbolize Chicago and Hawaii.
  - For 10 points, name these works, one of which Kehinde Wiley painted for Barack Obama. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Fireside Chats [prompt on Franklin Delano Roosevelt's speeches or similar answers]
  - Samuel Rosenman argued that some of these works were ghostwritten by Charles Michelson and Donald Richberg. [PWR]
  - These works include one quoting a Chinese proverb stating "the man who strikes first admits that his ideas are given out," and one stating "we defend and we build a way of life ... for all mankind." The journalist Robert Trout is said to have coined the common name for these works, which were partly the brainchild of the (*) press secretary Stephen Early. [PWR]
  - These works, which typically began with the address "My friends," include one urging the public to help resist the Nazis with America's "Arsenal of Democracy." The first of these speeches allayed the public's fear of the banking system after the "Bank Holiday" ended.
  - For 10 points, name these radio addresses given by FDR. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: fireside chats [accept, until the giveaway, answers indicating Franklin Delano Roosevelt's evening speeches to the American public over radio; prompt on speeches of Franklin Delano Roosevelt]
  - One of these works mentions Italian immigrants in Brazil and Argentina, where they achieved "success and the comfort of good living, and good citizenship." Another closes by recounting that when Andrew Jackson died and someone asked "Will he go to Heaven?" the reply was, "He will if he wants to." CBS reporter Harry Butcher named these works, the direct inspiration for a speech that Jimmy Carter delivered while wearing a memorable wool cardigan.
  - The "Star-Spangled Banner" played after each of these thirty works was delivered.
  - The first of them was given on a bank holiday proclaimed by their deliverer, who explained in very simple terms how banks worked.
  - For 10 points, name these evening radio addresses made to the American public during the Great Depression by FDR. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 MRNA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A member of this family served as Secretary of Agriculture under Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge, while his son founded the Hi-Bred Corn Company. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wallace family [accept Henry Cantwell Wallace or Henry Agard Wallace]):
    Name this political family. A member of this family ran for president under the Progressive Party in 1948 after the 1944 Democratic National Convention replaced him with Harry Truman as the vice presidential nominee.
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    Henry A. Wallace served as the second vice president of this president, who signed the Agricultural Adjustment Act as part of his New Deal.
  Part 3 (ans: McNary-Haugen Farm Relief Bill):
    Though this bill was supported by Henry C. Wallace while Secretary of Agriculture, it was twice vetoed by Coolidge. This plan was intended to grant subsidies to American farmers and was co-authored by Republican senators from Oregon and Iowa.

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Norman Lear attributed his life of activism to stumbling across this man's antisemitic radio broadcasts as a boy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Coughlin ("COG-lin") [or Charles Edward Coughlin or Father Coughlin]):
    Name this "Radio Priest" who reached a peak of 30 million Americans in the 1930s. He opposed both free markets and communism from his base in the Detroit suburb of Royal Oak.
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    Coughlin initially supported but then opposed this president, remarking that America could choose him "or Ruin." Coughlin cast this president's landmark series of work programs as "Christ's Deal."
  Part 3 (ans: North Dakota [or ND]):
    Coughlin formed the Union Party to challenge Roosevelt for president in 1936, nominating a representative from this state named William Lemke. Senator Gerald Nye was an antisemite from this state who opposed entry into World War II.

[B3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: While working for the National Consumers League, this advocate witnessed the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire, noting a "stricken conscience of public guilt." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frances Perkins [or Fannie Coralie Perkins]):
    Name this reformer whom Governor Al Smith tapped to chair New York's Industrial Commission.
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    Perkins served as Secretary of Labor under this president. In a biography, Kirstin Downey called Perkins "The Woman Behind" a series of public works projects pushed by this president that created the CCC and the WPA.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert F. Wagner [or Robert Ferdinand Wagner]):
    With Perkins's support, this politician authored a bill to preserve provisions of Section 7(a) from an earlier legislation gutted by the Supreme Court. Perkins had earlier served with Smith and this politician on a commission to investigate the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire.

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Hayden Expedition to this location issued propaganda that its natives were afraid of geysers to increase tourism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yellowstone National Park):
    Name this first U.S. national park that was established in 1872.
  Part 2 (ans: Delano [accept Columbus Delano; prompt on Franklin Delano Roosevelt; prompt on FDR; reject "Roosevelt"]):
    The Secretary of the Interior under President Grant who first requested federal protection of Yellowstone was a member of this family. A president whose (emphasize) mother belonged to this family expanded the National Park Service through a conservation program headed by Robert Fechner.
  Part 3 (ans: Chief Joseph [or Young Joseph; or Joseph the Younger; or Hinmatoowyalahtqit]):
    After the Battle of the Big Hole, this leader fled through Yellowstone. The National Park Service's Flight of 1877 trail follows a journey by this leader, who confessed "his heart was sick and sad" to Nelson Miles.

[B5] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work's prologue asks, "How far is anyone justified [in] trying to express in terms of music...the value of anything, material, moral, intellectual, or spiritual[?]" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Essays before a Sonata):
    Name this work whose attacks on Debussy include a comparison between his "sensual sensuousness" and the "spiritual sensuousness" of Henry David Thoreau, who inspired part of the piece this work was attached to.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles (Edward) Ives):
    This American composer wrote the Essays before a Sonata as a preface of sorts to his Concord Sonata.
  Part 3 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    When he was 63, Ives sent a personal letter to this man, attached to assorted earlier writings about forming a "People's World Union." This man's funeral set the precedent for playing Barber's Adagio for Strings at somber public occasions.

[B6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Leadin: Franz Neumann's Behemoth inspired a study of this group that divides into groups like the "Metropolitan 400" and the "Warlords." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the power elite [prompt on elite]):
    Name this group of business and political leaders often linked by membership in social clubs, such as the Harvard final clubs, according to a 1956 book titled for them.
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    In The Power Elite, C. Wright Mills discusses the adaptations that the economic power elite made in response to this president's New Deal program.
  Part 3 (ans: privilege [or white privilege; prompt on whiteness, race, or color by asking "what is the title concept of the work?"]):
    A contemporary elite theorist, Shamus Khan, wrote about the adolescent elite at St. Paul's School in a book titled for this concept. A type of this concept is compared to an "invisible knapsack" in a Peggy McIntosh essay.

[B7] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Alfred Vanderbilt sacrificed his own life jacket and gave it to a young mother during the sinking of this ship. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: RMS Lusitania):
    Name this British liner sunk by a German U-Boat in May 1915 for carrying munitions, resulting in the death of over a hundred Americans.
  Part 2 (ans: unrestricted submarine warfare [accept unrestricted U-Boat warfare]):
    After the sinking of the Lusitania, the U.S. persuaded Germany to stop this three-word policy of indiscriminately attacking any ship regardless of civilian status. This policy was the brainchild of Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz.
  Part 3 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [accept FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    To stop the movement of U-Boats around Britain, this Assistant Secretary of the Navy helped establish the North Sea Mine Barrage.

[B8] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Controversy ensued in 2010 after Gambian strongman Yahya Jammeh received this honor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nebraska Admiral [or Admiral of the Great Navy of the State of Nebraska, accept any answers including the words Nebraska and Admiral, prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this tongue-in-cheek military position granted by the governor of the US's only triply-landlocked state, who in granting it requires "all officers, seamen, tadpoles and goldfish" to obey its recipient's commands.
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    One prominent Nebraska Admiral is George Gallup, who founded a polling company that made its name after predicting that this man would defeat Alf Landon in the 1936 presidential election.
  Part 3 (ans: Republic of Equatorial Guinea [Republica de Guinea Equatorial; do not accept or prompt on "Guinea"]):
    Another controversial admiralship was bestowed on Teodoro Obiang, the longtime dictator of this African country, whose capital of Malabo lies on the island of Bioko.

[B9] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the political career of Josephus Daniels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wilmington, North Carolina):
    Daniels led a white supremacist mob to overthrow this North Carolina city's elected government in the US's only successful coup. In 1898, the Red Shirts militia overthrew this city's Fusionist governing coalition.
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [accept FDR; prompt on Roosevelt]):
    Later, as Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of the Navy, Daniels would be in charge of managing this Assistant Secretary of the Navy, who would later serve as James Cox's running mate and governor of New York before becoming president.
  Part 3 (ans: U.S. Ambassador to Mexico):
    After becoming president, Roosevelt rewarded his old boss by appointing him to this position. Other holders of this diplomatic post included flower namesake Joel Poinsett and Henry Lane Wilson, who was involved in plotting a coup against Francisco Madero.

[B10] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This territory became largely self governing in 1935 with Manuel Quezon as its president. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philippines):
    Name this colony which was ceded to the United States by Spain in the 1898 Treaty of Paris. Douglas MacArthur was a military governor of this territory.
  Part 2 (ans: Tydings-McDuffie Act):
    A path for independence for the Philippines over a ten year span was put into place by this US act named for a Maryland senator and an Alabama representative.
  Part 3 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [accept FDR]):
    The Tydings-McDuffie Act was signed by this US president whose government saw the Japanese capture of the Philippines during World War II. His government also saw the implementation of the New Deal.

[B11] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Both of these political leaders served at the Battle of Spion Kop in the Boer War - one of them as a medic, the other as a courier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Winston Churchill AND Mohandas Gandhi):
    Name these two leaders, one of whom insulted the other as a "half-naked fakir."
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR]):
    This other world leader provided the main Western support for the Quit India movement and encouraged Churchill to cave to some of Gandhi's demands. As President, he sent Lend-Lease aid to Churchill.
  Part 3 (ans: Subhas Chandra Bose):
    Meanwhile, this other Indian activist was organizing an Indian Legion in Germany intended to liberate India during World War II. He also led the Japanese-backed Indian National Army.

[B12] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the history of the Social Security program of the United States, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or FDR; prompt on just "Roosevelt"]):
    The Social Security Act, which created a national old-age pension system, was passed by Congress in 1934 during the presidency of this man. He introduced numerous economic reforms as part of his New Deal.
  Part 2 (ans: Frances Perkins (Wilson) [or Fannie Coralie Perkins]):
    This woman helped draft the Social Security Act as Roosevelt's Secretary of Labor.
  Part 3 (ans: Flemming v. Nestor [accept either]):
    This Supreme Court case established that there is no contractual right to Social Security benefits. It arose after a man was denied benefits because he had been deported for being a member of the Communist Party.

[B13] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This president's advisors included Frances Perkins, who became the first woman appointed to the United States Cabinet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or:FDR]):
    Name this president who attempted to expand the Supreme Court with his "court packing plan."
  Part 2 (ans: Harry Hopkins):
    This FDR advisor ran the Works Progress Administration. Before American entrance into World War II, he coordinated unofficial negotiations with Winston Churchill.
  Part 3 (ans: Bernard Baruch):
    During World War II, Roosevelt offered to let this man replace Donald Nelson has head of the War Production Board. This member of the Brain Trust held a similar role with the War Industries Board during World War I.

[B14] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: This letter warned about a cessation of sales of uranium from Czechoslovakian mines. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Einstein's letter to FDR [or Einstein's letter to Franklin Delano Roosevelt; or Einstein's letter about the atomic bomb; also accept the Einstein-Szilard letter, but do NOT read this alternate answer out loud; prompt on Einstein's letter]):
    Name this letter sent to the American president in August 1939, advising him to begin atomic bomb research before the Nazis could get their hands on the weapon.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Szilard):
    Most of the letter was written by this man, with whom he built a refrigerator without moving parts. He came up with the idea of a nuclear chain reaction and the electron microscope, among other things he never got credit for.
  Part 3 (ans: Linus Carl Pauling):
    This other scientist failed to convinced Einstein to join the horribly naive-sounding Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War. This Vitamin C enthusiast came up with the most common scale for electronegativity.

[B15] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Fon Huffman was the last living survivor of this country's attack on a United States navy ship and three Standard Oil vessels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan):
    Name this country that attacked the USS Panay in 1937.
  Part 2 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt):
    This man was president of the United States during the Panay incident, as well as when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludlow amendment):
    The Panay incident sparked debate over this proposed amendment, which called for a national referendum whenever Congress declared war. Its namesake represented Indiana.

[B16] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Rexford Tugwell was an advisor to this president. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [accept FDR]):
    Name this New Deal President who was advised by Tugwell and other members of the "Brain Trust."
  Part 2 (ans: Adolf Berle):
    This fellow Columbia professor and writer of The Modern Corporation and Private Property also served as a member of Roosevelt's original "Brain Trust" along with Rexford Tugwell. He has an unfortunate first name.
  Part 3 (ans: Harry Hopkins):
    This supervisor of the WPA was one of Roosevelt's closest advisors and served as Secretary of Commerce for Roosevelt near the end of his second term. He served as FDR's primary emissary to Britain during WWII and oversaw the lend lease program.
