=== STOCK CLUES: All the Pretty Horses ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In her essay "Professions for Women," Virginia Woolf admits that she was so tormented by "the shadow of [this figure's] wings" and "the rustling of her skirts" that "at last I killed her." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the angel in the house [prompt on angel]):
    Name this conceptual figure who embodies an ideal of Victorian womanhood. This figure titles a narrative poem by Coventry Patmore, which was inspired by the devotion of his wife Emily Augusta.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlotte Perkins Gilman):
    This author's essay "The Extinct Angel" describes how the race of the angel in the house has died out. This author also wrote the story "The Yellow Wallpaper."
  Part 3 (ans: McCarthy [accept Mary McCarthy or Cormac McCarthy] (The second sentence is from All the Pretty Horses.)):
    Elaine Showalter's essay "Killing the Angel in the House" examines the sexist backlash against a writer with this surname for her novel The Group. Another writer with this surname created John Grady Cole, who travels to Mexico to become a rancher.

[B2] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Gene Harrogate was sent to a work camp after he "violated" a farmer's watermelons, which led to his nickname of "the Moonlight Melonmounter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Suttree):
    Name this novel in which Cornelius, the title character, leaves his luxurious life to live in solitude as a catfish-seller in Knoxville along the Tennessee River.
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    This author wrote the semi-autobiographical Suttree, in addition to a novel featuring psychopath hitman Anton Chigurh, No Country for Old Men, and the post-apocalyptic novel The Road.
  Part 3 (ans: All the Pretty Horses):
    In this other McCarthy novel, John Grady romances Alejandra while working on a ranch after escaping from the people pursuing Jimmy Blevins.

[B3] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Along with The Crossing and Cities of the Plain, it makes up its author's Border Trilogy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: All the Pretty Horses):
    Name this book which revolves around the travels and adventures of Lacey Rawlins and John Grady Cole, the latter of whom proposes to Alejandra, whose father betrays them to the authorities.
  Part 2 (ans: Equus):
    Another work about horses is this 1973 play by Peter Shaffer is about Martin Dysart's attempts to cure Alan Strang of his obsession with horses.
  Part 3 (ans: John Steinbeck):
    A book about Jody Tiflin's life in the west, The Red Pony, was written by this author who often used ranches in novels such as Of Mice and Men and East of Eden.

[B4] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The main character of this novel begins an affair with Alejandra before Jimmy Blevins is hanged. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: All the Pretty Horses):
    Name this novel, in which Lacey Rawlins accompanies John Grady to Mexico. It precedes The Crossing in its author's "Border Trilogy."
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    All the Pretty Horses was written by this American author of violent modern Westerns such as Blood Meridian and No Country for Old Men.
  Part 3 (ans: the kid [or the man]):
    McCarthy also created this character, who chooses to spare the wounded man Shelby and refuses to abandon Sam Tate. At the end of the novel he appears in, he tells his antagonist "You ain't nothin" before being killed.
