=== STOCK CLUES: Cormac McCarthy ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 32 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Cormac McCarthy
  - In a novel by this author, a woman cries while reading a letter that reveals the location of a lost Amati violin. [PWR]
  - This author dedicated an early copy of one of his novels to his friend John Sheddan, whose death in an empty theater is fictionalized in a later novel by this author. [PWR]
  - A man reminisces on his schizophrenic sister's hallucinations of the Thalidomide Kid in a novel by this author, which follows two mathematical prodigies whose father worked on the atomic bomb. [PWR]
  - This author's 2022 novel (*) Stella Maris was written as a "coda" to his novel published earlier that year, The Passenger.
  - The protagonist of a novel by this author joins the Glanton Gang under Judge Holden.
  - For 10 points, name this late author who created the "Kid" in his western epic Blood Meridian. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Cormac McCarthy (The first novel clued is Outer Dark.)
  - In a novel by this author, three unnamed characters burn a child in the same site where they hang a character known as the Tinker. [PWR]
  - After losing his family land, a character created by this author moves into a mountainous cave, where he begins keeping the bodies of women he murders. [PWR]
  - This author, who set their first four novels in Appalachia, created a serial killer "much like yourself perhaps" named Lester Ballard. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author claims he will never (*) die while dancing in a bar under a meteor shower. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author alternately titled "The Evening Redness of the West," a giant hairless man accompanies the bloodthirsty Glanton Gang.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Child of God who created the Kid and the Judge in Blood Meridian. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Cormac McCarthy
  - In a novel by this author, a 13-year-old character who claims to be deaf in one ear after being struck by lightning twice proves himself to his companions by shooting a hole through a wallet tossed in the air. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author stabs a cuchillero to death during a knife and cafeteria tray fight in prison after discussing the difference between two countries with Perez. [PWR]
  - In that novel by this author, the protagonist has an affair with Alejandra after running away to (*) Mexico from his dead grandfather's ranch along with his friend Rawlins. [PWR]
  - This author created a tall, hairless character who furiously plays the fiddle and proclaims that he will never die after murdering a man in the jakes.
  - For 10 points, name this author who created John Grady Cole in All the Pretty Horses, and who wrote about The Kid and Judge Holden in Blood Meridian. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Cormac McCarthy
  - One of this author's protagonists observes the "diverging equity" between the "world's pain and its beauty," such that "the blood of multitudes might ultimately be exacted for the vision of a single flower." In a later book by this author, that character falls in love with an epileptic prostitute working at The White Lake, whose owner kills him in a knife fight.
  - The protagonist cries after failing to call back a badly injured dog he had shooed away at the end of a novel by this author, which begins with him returning a wolf to its home in the mountains. [PWR]
  - The protagonist uses a heated pistol barrel to (*) cauterize a gunshot wound incurred from his prison escape in a novel by this author that opens at his grandfather's funeral. [PWR]
  - This author's books Cities of the Plain and The Crossing form the "border" trilogy with his novel in which the Mexican ranch owner's daughter Alejandra has an affair with the cowboy John Grady Cole.
  - For 10 points, name this American author of violent westerns such as All the Pretty Horses and Blood Meridian. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Cormac McCarthy
  - A character created by this author becomes a necrophile when he takes possession of a woman's body on Frog Mountain and becomes a serial killer after he burns his cabin down and starts to live in caves.
  - The protagonist of another novel by this author cauterizes a gunshot wound by heating a pistol barrel and travels with his friend Lacey Rawlins while looking for work in Coahuila.
  - This author wrote another novel that ends with its unnamed protagonist being brutally murdered in an outhouse during a meteor shower; characters in that book include scalpers led by John Glanton.
  - This man wrote about Lester Ballard in Child of God and created the character of John Grady Cole in the first novel of his Border Trilogy, titled All the Pretty Horses.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Blood Meridian. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Cormac McCarthy
  - This author wrote about marine biologist Guy Schuler and Irish aristocrat Peter Gregory in his unpublished play Whales and Men. [PWR]
  - One of his novels opens with an epigraph by Paul Valery that "your ideas are terrifying and your hearts are faint," followed by a quote from Jakob Boehme that "sorrow is a thing that is swallowed up in death." A character created by this author is jailed for having sex with watermelons and befriends an upper class man who's abandons his wife to (*) live on a houseboat in McAnally Flats - that character is Gene Harrogate. [PWR]
  - Another of this writer's characters shares his name with a radio evangelist who hosts the Jimmy Blevins Gospel Hour.
  - This author, whose first novel was The Orchard Keeper, wrote about the siblings Culla and Rinthy in his next book Outer Dark.
  - FTP, name this American author of Suttree, who wrote about Lacy Rawlins and his friend John Grady Cole in All the Pretty Horses.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a man carries an object owned by Pacheco before throwing it as part of a bet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    Name this author who wrote about the kid and the violent Judge Holden in Blood Meridian. This author wrote No Country for Old Men and The Road.
  Part 2 (ans: meteors [accept meteor showers; accept stars]):
    In Blood Meridian, these objects that are described as appearing on the "Night of [the kid's] birth. Thirty-three," paralleling a later event featuring these objects during which an unnamed character is presumably murdered in an outhouse.
  Part 3 (ans: Anton Chigurh [or Anton Chigurh]):
    Harold Bloom unfavorably compared this other McCarthy antagonist to Judge Holden. This character from No Country for Old Men carries an air-powered captive bolt stunner and flips a coin to decide his victims' fates.

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a character is berated for breaking "little promises" after trying to give away a cup of hot cocoa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Road):
    Name this novel in which a father reassures his son that they are the "good guys" who are "carrying the fire" while heading south in a post-apocalyptic world.
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles Joseph McCarthy Jr.]):
    The Road was written by this author, who wrote The Passengers and Stella Maris shortly before his June 2023 death.
  Part 3 (ans: El Paso, Texas):
    While visiting this city with his son, McCarthy described seeing "fires on the hill," which inspired the plot of The Road. McCarthy moved to this city in 1976, and set many of his novels around the area.

[B3] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In her essay "Professions for Women," Virginia Woolf admits that she was so tormented by "the shadow of [this figure's] wings" and "the rustling of her skirts" that "at last I killed her." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the angel in the house [prompt on angel]):
    Name this conceptual figure who embodies an ideal of Victorian womanhood. This figure titles a narrative poem by Coventry Patmore, which was inspired by the devotion of his wife Emily Augusta.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlotte Perkins Gilman):
    This author's essay "The Extinct Angel" describes how the race of the angel in the house has died out. This author also wrote the story "The Yellow Wallpaper."
  Part 3 (ans: McCarthy [accept Mary McCarthy or Cormac McCarthy] (The second sentence is from All the Pretty Horses.)):
    Elaine Showalter's essay "Killing the Angel in the House" examines the sexist backlash against a writer with this surname for her novel The Group. Another writer with this surname created John Grady Cole, who travels to Mexico to become a rancher.

[B4] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a character joins a religious cult led by Father Peace and insists on being called Brother Boyce. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paule ("Paul") Marshall [or Valenza Pauline Burke]):
    Name this author who wrote a coming-of-age novel about Selina Boyce, who lives in one of the title buildings that her mother wishes to own. This author's father was a Barbadian immigrant, much like the protagonist's father in her novel Brown Girl, Brownstones.
  Part 2 (ans: Invisible Man):
    Father Peace in Brown Girl, Brownstones was perhaps inspired by Brother Jack, the leader of "the Brotherhood" in this novel by Ralph Ellison.
  Part 3 (ans: a road [accept The Road; accept Triangular Road] (The Road is by Cormac McCarthy.)):
    Marshall's memoir of her time as a writer is titled for a "triangular" one of these structures. In another novel titled for one of these structures, an unnamed father convinces his son that they are "the good guys."

[B5] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for this city notes "I always like the summer" because you can "be warm / all the time / not only when you go to bed / and sleep" and was written by Nikki Giovanni, who grew up in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Knoxville, Tennessee (The unnamed work is James Agee's "Knoxville: Summer of 1915.")):
    Name this city whose summer is also the subject of a prose piece that was written in 90 minutes and became the prologue to the author's tragic autobiographical novel A Death in the Family.
  Part 2 (ans: Alex Haley [or Alexander Murray Palmer Haley]):
    Knoxville contains a Heritage Square dedicated to this author, who extended one of his many interviews for Playboy into the book The Autobiography of Malcolm X.
  Part 3 (ans: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]):
    Though he grew up in Knoxville, this author later moved to Texas, whose landscape inspired him to pen Westerns like Blood Meridian and No Country for Old Men.

[B6] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poetic genre named for this profession holds an annual National Gathering in Elko, Nevada, and includes such poems as "Reincarnation" by Wallace McRae and "Vegetarian's Nightmare" by Baxter Black. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cowboys [accept cowboy poetry; prompt on cattle ranchers or ranch hands]):
    Identify this profession that is the focus of novels like Larry McMurtry's Lonesome Dove and Owen Wister's The Virginian.
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    This author of Border Trilogy and No Country for Old Men included an epilogue about the closing of the frontier in his novel Blood Meridian.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Cremation of Sam McGee"):
    The title character of this classic of cowboy poetry by Robert W. Service tells its speaker after the title event that "Since I left Plumtree, down in Tennessee, it's the first time I've been warm" while its speaker is caught in a snowstorm in the Yukon.

[B7] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is introduced when he crashes a religious revival by accusing the preacher of pedophilia and bestiality, inciting an angry mob. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Judge Holden [or the Judge]):
    Name this apparent polymath who extensively catalogs the natural world and declares that "war is God."
  Part 2 (ans: Blood Meridian):
    The hairless, pale Judge Holden leads a gang of murderous scalpers and thieves in this novel, which follows "the kid" through the deserts of Mexico.
  Part 3 (ans: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]):
    Blood Meridian is by this author. He also wrote about a father and son wandering about in a post-apocalyptic waste in The Road.

[B8] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Gene Harrogate was sent to a work camp after he "violated" a farmer's watermelons, which led to his nickname of "the Moonlight Melonmounter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Suttree):
    Name this novel in which Cornelius, the title character, leaves his luxurious life to live in solitude as a catfish-seller in Knoxville along the Tennessee River.
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    This author wrote the semi-autobiographical Suttree, in addition to a novel featuring psychopath hitman Anton Chigurh, No Country for Old Men, and the post-apocalyptic novel The Road.
  Part 3 (ans: All the Pretty Horses):
    In this other McCarthy novel, John Grady romances Alejandra while working on a ranch after escaping from the people pursuing Jimmy Blevins.

[B9] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character was born in Tennessee during a meteor shower. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the kid [prompt on the man]):
    Identify this unnamed character who meets Toadvine in Nacogdoches (NACK-uh-DOH-chiss). At the end of the novel in which he appears, some men recoil in horror when they find this corpse in an outhouse in Fort Griffin, Texas.
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]):
    The kid is the protagonist of this author's novel Blood Meridian. He won the U.S. National Book Award for All the Pretty Horses and has also written about hitman Anton Chigurh in No Country for Old Men.
  Part 3 (ans: judge):
    In Blood Meridian, the kid frequently encounters a tall, hairless man named Holden who goes by this title. The villainous Jaffrey Pyncheon has this title in Hawthorne's The House of the Seven Gables.

[B10] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character and Toadvine give the nickname "gold-toothed pervert" to the overseer of their street-cleaning gang while the two are imprisoned in Chihuahua. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the kid [or the man]):
    Identify this character who survives the Yuma massacre of the Glanton gang, but does not take advantage of his many opportunities to kill Judge Holden.
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    The kid becomes part of a gang of outlaws in Blood Meridian, a novel by this American author of No Country for Old Men.
  Part 3 (ans: Knoxville, Tennessee):
    This U.S. city is the setting of McCarthy's semi-autobiographical novel Suttree. This city also titles a prose poem used as a preamble to a novel about the death of Jay Follett in a car accident.

[B11] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Llewelyn Moss finds a load of heroin after meeting a Mexican man who is in desperate need of water. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: No Country for Old Men):
    Name this novel in which the killer Anton Chigurh is hunted by Sheriff Ed Bell.
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]):
    This author of No Country for Old Men created the brutal Judge Holden in his novel Blood Meridian, and depicted John Grady Cole's adventure in Mexico in All the Pretty Horses.
  Part 3 (ans: Jimmy Blevins [or Jimmy Blevins]):
    In All the Pretty Horses, John Grady Cole meets this fellow teenager, who kills a man during the retrieval of his beloved Colt pistol. In the final parts of the novel, John Grady travels around Texas trying to find the owner of this boy's stolen horse.

[B12] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about contemporary American literature, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    An unnamed Father and Son travel through a post-apocalyptic United States in this man's Pulitzer-winning novel The Road. His "Border Trilogy" of novels includes another depressing work, All The Pretty Horses.
  Part 2 (ans: Middlesex):
    This novel by Jeffrey Eugenides begins "I was born twice: first as a baby girl...then again as a teenage boy." It is about the transsexual Cal, who has sex for the first time with "the Obscure Object" and later becomes a diplomat.
  Part 3 (ans: Denis Johnson):
    This man's 2007 novel Tree of Smoke won the National Book Award, but he first became noticed with his collection of stories loosely revolving around the often drug-addled character Fuckhead, titled Jesus' Son.

[B13] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel Gene Harrogate, nicknamed City Rat, is arrested for bestiality, but his lawyer is able to explain that watermelons are not beasts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Suttree):
    Identify this novel, set in Knoxville. It follows the adventures of the title character, who is introduced as living on a houseboat, while making a living by fishing for catfish.
  Part 2 (ans: The Road):
    In this other novel by the author of Suttree, a boy and his father travel down the titular path in a post-apocalyptic future. Jennifer Egan's review of this novel interprets the resistance of cannibalism in this novel to be indicative of a moral structure.
  Part 3 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    This American author penned Suttree and The Road as well as Blood Meridian.

[B14] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The main character of this novel begins an affair with Alejandra before Jimmy Blevins is hanged. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: All the Pretty Horses):
    Name this novel, in which Lacey Rawlins accompanies John Grady to Mexico. It precedes The Crossing in its author's "Border Trilogy."
  Part 2 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    All the Pretty Horses was written by this American author of violent modern Westerns such as Blood Meridian and No Country for Old Men.
  Part 3 (ans: the kid [or the man]):
    McCarthy also created this character, who chooses to spare the wounded man Shelby and refuses to abandon Sam Tate. At the end of the novel he appears in, he tells his antagonist "You ain't nothin" before being killed.

[B15] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a pivotal scene in this novel, the protagonist shoots and kills his long-time rival, Trampas, and this work begins with a foreword "to Theodore Roosevelt." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Virginian: A Horseman of the Plains):
    Identify this novel about "A Horseman of the Plains," which ends with the title character, the foreman of the Shiloh Ranch, marrying Molly Stark Wood.
  Part 2 (ans: Pearl Zane Grey):
    Owen Wister, the author of The Virginian, was an author of Western fiction as was this author who wrote about Elder Tull and his pursuit of Jane Withersteen in his novel Riders of the Purple Sage.
  Part 3 (ans: Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]):
    This author wrote the Western, Blood Meridian, as well as the post apocalyptic Pulitzer Prize winner, The Road.

[B16] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character kills Tobin and blames another character for the operations of the Glanton Gang, and he is described as having no hair at all. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Judge Holden [accept either name]):
    Name this malicious character who gets a traveling preacher accused of sexual perversity by his wanton accusations and helps a group of people fend off some Apache Indians by making gunpowder.
  Part 2 (ans: Blood Meridian):
    Judge Holden appears in this novel that tells of the Kid's dark adventures through the American west and Mexico.
  Part 3 (ans: Cormac McCarthy):
    Blood Meridian was written by this author whose novels No Country for Old Men and The Road have both been recently adapted into films.
