=== STOCK CLUES: John William Waterhouse ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted women in pink and blue leaning over in Gather Ye Rosebuds, While Ye May. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John William Waterhouse):
    Name this artist who depicted a red-haired woman in a white dress sitting on top of a quilt while floating in a boat in one of his depictions of the Lady of Shalott.
  Part 2 (ans: Ophelia):
    A Waterhouse painting of this Shakespeare character shows her sitting on a tree next to a pond. Elizabeth Siddall nearly died of hypothermia while posing for a John Everett Millais portrait of this character.
  Part 3 (ans: "La Belle Dame sans Merci" [accept answers indicating "the woman from 'La Belle Dame sans Merci' by John Keats"]):
    Waterhouse depicted this maroon-clad character wrapping a tan scarf around a man she is about to kiss in another painting. Frank Dicksee showed this character leaning down from a black horse to kiss a knight in ornate armor.

[B2] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some artists inspired by Shakespeare, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Fuseli):
    This artist created an extremely creepy fairy retinue for A Midsummer Night's Dream in his painting Titania and Bottom and a terrifying-looking Lady Macbeth Seizing the Daggers, but is better known for The Nightmare.
  Part 2 (ans: John William Waterhouse):
    This non-Millais Pre-Raphaelite artist did many studies of Ophelia rather ominously sitting on a tree branch over a lilypad-covered river. He also branched out into Tennyson fan art with The Lady of Shalott.
  Part 3 (ans: Angelica Kauffman):
    This Swiss Neoclassical artist of Cornelia Pointing to Her Children as Her Treasures depicted Shakespearean actor David Garrick grasping a chair and also showed Miranda and Ferdinand in the woods in The Tempest.
