=== STOCK CLUES: Saarinen ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 34 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Eero Saarinen
  - The Mary Seaton room is contained in a concert venue designed by this architect, the Kleinhans Music Hall in Buffalo, New York. [PWR]
  - This architect set out to design "the simplest skyscraper in New York City" for a building whose facade of dark granite piers led it to be nicknamed "The Black Rock." The CBS Building was designed by this architect whose Miller House is credited with popularizing the conversation pit.
  - A structure designed by this architect that was nicknamed (*) "the whale" for its sloping roof is the David S. [PWR]
  - Ingalls Rink at Yale.
  - A flight center designed by this architect is now the TWA Hotel at JFK airport.
  - This architect's improvements to the MIT campus include its chapel and the Kresge Auditorium.
  - For 10 points, name this Finnish-American architect of the Gateway Arch. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Saarinen [accept Lilian Swann Saarinen; or Eliel Saarinen; or Eero Saarinen; prompt on Swann with "What was her married surname?"]
  - A sculptor with this surname depicted the panther Bagheera in her sculpture Night at the 1939 World's Fair.
  - The Radiator Building was inspired by an architect with this surname's layered Neo-Gothic design for Chicago's Tribune Tower.
  - Architects with this surname created Columbus, Indiana's Miller House and First Community Church.
  - Contributions of an architect with this surname to homebuilding include the "conversation pit" and the Tulip chair.
  - A sculptor with this surname designed a reflecting pool surrounded by buffalo which was originally paired with her husband's catenary curve design for the Jefferson Expansion Memorial.
  - For 10 points, give this surname shared by Lillian Swann and her husband, the Finnish architect behind the St. [GIVE]
  - Louis Arch, Eero.

[T3] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Eero Saarinen
  - This architect used alternating portrait and landscape windows in his design for a University of Pennsylvania dormitory. [PWR]
  - A bas relief by Jacques Lipchitz hangs in this architect's Miller House. [PWR]
  - A Harry Bertoia sculpture creates a cascade of light from a skylight to a white marble altar in this architect's red-brick chapel at the same location as this architect's (*) Kresge Auditorium, M.I.T. [PWR]
  - The Grasshopper, Womb, and the Tulip are among chair designs by this creator of the world's tallest arch.
  - For 10 points, name this Finnish-American architect responsible for the TWA Flight Centre at JFK Airport and the Gateway Arch in St Louis. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Eero Saarinen
  - One building designed by this man was previously used as an all-girls dormitory and had a drawbridge to keep men out. [PWR]
  - This architect of the Hill House at Penn created a hexagonal church with a huge central spire in Columbus, Indiana. [PWR]
  - Black Rock, or CBS headquarters, was also designed by this man. [PWR]
  - A Harry Bertoia sculpture hangs under a skylight in a chapel designed by this man. [PWR]
  - One structure by this man is shaped to resemble a (*) leaf and forms a perfect eighth of a sphere. [PWR]
  - This sculptor of the Kresge Auditorium at MIT and the Yale Whale is more famous for designing the TWA flight center at JFK international airport and for a large stainless steel hyperbola found in a Midwestern city.
  - For 10 points, name this Finnish architect of St. [GIVE]
  - Louis' Gateway Arch.

[T5] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts [anti-prompt on "Metropolitan Opera" anywhere between "Chagall" and "Saarinen"]
  - One of Henry Moore's Reclining Figures sits in a pool at the North Plaza of this building complex.
  - In 2010, a new stairway was added to this complex, which contains an LED display that says "welcome" in 235 languages.
  - One part of this complex contains Marc Chagall's mural, "The Triumph of Music".
  - That building in this complex has chandeliers shaped like starbursts, which ascend to the ceiling of the auditorium before performances begin.
  - Eero Saarinen designed the Vivian Beaumont Theater, which is part of this complex, along with The Juilliard School, and the Philip Johnson-designed David H.
  - Koch Theater, which is the home of the New York City Ballet.
  - For 10 points, name this performing arts complex that includes Avery Fisher Hall and The Metropolitan Opera. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Frank Lloyd Wright praised this architect's drawing of the K. C. DeRhodes House by comparing it to a Hiroshige work, though Wright later took credit for many of her designs in the Wasmuth Portfolio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marion Mahony Griffin [or Marion Lucy Mahony]):
    Name this Prairie School architect. This architect designed Pholiota after moving to Victoria with her husband, himself an architect who designed modular blocks for his assembled "Knitlock" houses.
  Part 2 (ans: Canberra [or Kanbarra]):
    In 1912, Marion and Walter Burley Griffin won an international competition to design this planned city in the Federal Capital Territory, which involved damming the Molonglo River to create the Parliamentary Triangle.
  Part 3 (ans: Saarinen [accept Eliel Saarinen; accept Eero Saarinen]):
    An architect with this surname placed second in both the contest to design Canberra and the neo-Gothic Tribune Tower in Chicago. That architect's son with this surname included a "conversation pit" in his design for the Miller House in Columbus, Indiana.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Lars Sonck included a massive granite tower on an Art Nouveau church that he designed in this city's Kallio district. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helsinki [or Helsingfors] (The Aalto building is Finlandia Hall.)):
    Name this city whose neoclassical cathedral is located at the center of its Senate Square. An event venue made entirely of Carrara marble was designed in this city by Alvar Aalto, an architect from this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Saarinen [accept Eliel Saarinen; accept Eero Saarinen]):
    Helsinki Central Station and the National Museum of Finland were both designed by an architect with this surname. That architect's son with this surname designed the Gateway Arch in St. Louis.
  Part 3 (ans: Columbus, Indiana [reject "Columbus, Ohio"]):
    Buildings designed by the Saarinens in this US city include Eliel's First Christian Church and Eero's Miller House, which has one of the first conversation pits. A 2017 film by Kogonada set in this city traces Jin and Casey's brief friendship among this city's renowned architecture.

[B3] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An architect with this surname designed the First Christian Church in Columbus, Indiana, one of the first Modernist church buildings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saarinen [accept Eliel Saarinen or Eero Saarinen]):
    Give this surname. Two architects with this surname collaborated to design the General Motors Technical Center in Warren, Michigan.
  Part 2 (ans: MIT [or Massachusetts Institute of Technology]):
    Eero Saarinen designed a nondenominational chapel at this university, and its adjacent Kresge Auditorium. The Great Dome of this university in Cambridge, Massachusetts can be seen from Harvard Bridge.
  Part 3 (ans: Minneapolis, Minnesota):
    The Saarinens also designed the Christ Church Lutheran, which was Eliel's last building, in this city. Minoru Yamasaki used 63 tall, slender quartz columns to surround this city's Northwestern National Life Building.

[B4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two artists produced the documentaries Powers of Ten while working in this house, which pioneered the use of De Stijl ("duh STALE") in architecture outside of Europe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eames House):
    Name this house, number 8 in a series of "Case Study Houses." It was designed by, and named for, a husband-and-wife design duo who crafted a single piece of plywood into the first "Organic Chair."
  Part 2 (ans: Los Angeles [or L.A.]):
    The Eames House, like most of the Case Study Houses, is located in this US city's metropolitan area, whose other architectural highlights include Frank Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall and the Hollywood sign.
  Part 3 (ans: Eero Saarinen):
    Charles Eames initially sketched out the Eames House with this other architect, with whom he collaborated on the Entenza House next door. This architect's design of Dulles International Airport incorporates catenary curves, which inspired his Jefferson Expansion Memorial.

[B5] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Raymond Hood predicted that this art form will eventually be studied in the same way as Norman Bel Geddes's theater work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lighting design [or illumination; or artificial lighting; accept any answers indicating lighting up the exterior of buildings; accept architecture of the night; prompt on architecture; do not accept or prompt on answers about windows or design of natural light]):
    Describe this art form practiced by designers like Douglas Leigh and Yann Kersale. The work of Richard Kelly, a practitioner of this art form, includes projects for the Seagram Building and the Glass House.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Georgia O'Keeffe created a series of paintings of skyscrapers in this city illuminated at night, including Hood's Radiator Building. Hood also designed Rockefeller Center in this city.
  Part 3 (ans: Saarinen ("SAH-ree-nen") [accept Eliel Saarinen or Eero Saarinen]):
    Hood's Radiator Building was based on a design originally by an architect with this surname. Another architect with this surname designed the Miller House and the MIT Chapel.

[B6] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This company has the European rights to manufacture Verner Panton's Heart Cone Chair and the Eames Lounge Chair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vitra):
    Name this Swiss furniture and design company that may be best known for its German campus at Weil am Rhein ("VILE" ahm RINE), which includes factories designed by SANAA and Alvaro Siza and a design museum by Frank Gehry.
  Part 2 (ans: Zaha Hadid):
    The Vitra campus' angular fire station was designed by this architect, who also designed the Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati and the London Aquatics Centre for the 2012 Summer Olympics.
  Part 3 (ans: Eero Saarinen [prompt on Saarinen; prompt on E. Saarinen; do not accept or prompt on "Eliel Saarinen"]):
    The Vitra Design Museum includes the Tulip Chair designed by this Finnish architect, who also designed the TWA Flight Center at JFK International Airport.

[B7] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about what critic Vincent Scully has called "paramilitary dandyism" in American architecture.
  Part 1 (ans: Eero Saarinen):
    "Paramilitary dandyism" describes the "dramatic patience" and "willful forcing" of large 1960s buildings, such as this Finnish architect's CBS Building and TWA Flight Center at JFK International.
  Part 2 (ans: Indianapolis):
    Scully also used the term "paramilitary dandyism" to describe the "science-fiction" designs of Kevin Roche, whose most famous project may be three massive, imposing, pyramid-shaped office buildings for the College Life Insurance Company in this state capital.
  Part 3 (ans: reinforced concrete):
    Many buildings of the paramilitary dandy style, such as the Knights of Columbus Building, make use of this building material, whose tensile strength is increased by the addition of rebar.

[B8] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This entry was closely mimicked for the design of the American Radiator Building in New York. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eliel Saarinen's Chicago Tribune Tower design):
    Name this influential modernist design which was runner-up to a Hood & Howells building in a 1922 architectural competition.
  Part 2 (ans: Buffalo, New York):
    Eliel and Eero Saarinen designed the Kleinhans Music Hall for this city's philharmonic orchestra. It was the site of Frank Lloyd Wright's Larkin Administration Building and is the site of Louis Sullivan's Guaranty Building.
  Part 3 (ans: Bauhaus):
    Eliel Saarinen was the first director of the Cranbrook Academy of Art, which was strongly influenced by this German art school led by Walter Gropius and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.

[B9] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect's flexibility in creating the design of the General Motors Technical Center in Warren, Michigan earned him commissions for several other corporate headquarters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eero Saarinen):
    Name this architect who also designed headquarters for John Deere, IBM, and CBS.
  Part 2 (ans: Washington Dulles International Airport [or IAD]):
    Saarinen created an airfoil-like concrete roof in his design for this Washington, D.C.-area airport.
  Part 3 (ans: Knoll):
    Eero Saarinen furnished the interiors of his corporate headquarters buildings with his own "Grasshopper," "Womb," and "Tulip" chairs from this furniture company.
