=== STOCK CLUES: Gibbons ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 28 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: monkeys [accept macaques; accept apes; accept gibbons; accept simians; accept three wise monkeys; accept hou; accept saru until "mizaru" is read]
  - Depictions of these animals were the specialty of a school led by Mori Sosen, who created the first Japanese artwork of one based on a live model. [PWR]
  - The Sabarmati Ashram houses a sculpture of these animals because one of Mahatma Gandhi's only possessions at death was a statue depicting them. [PWR]
  - Chinese artists depicted these animals riding horses in a pun on career advancement. [PWR]
  - A motif associated with these animals is embodied by dancing individuals with red X's on their bodies accompanied by the text (*) "Ignorance = Fear / Silence = Death" in a poster by Keith Haring. [PWR]
  - A command to avoid opposing li in The Analects may have inspired a wooden sculpture of three of these animals by Hidari Jingoro at the Toshogu Shrine in Nikko, which are named mizaru, kikazaru, and iwazaru.
  - For 10 points, a Japanese sculptural motif depicts what animals who sequentially cover their eyes, their ears, and mouth? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: farms [accept Animal Farm; accept Cold Comfort Farm; prompt on barns by asking "what larger type of place is it located on?"] (Cold Comfort Farm is by Stella Gibbons.)
  - In a novel titled for this sort of place, a pompous writer claims that Branwell was the true genius of the Bronte siblings.
  - In that novel, the protagonist moves to one of these places to live with her Aunt Ada, who sees "something nasty in the woodshed." Characters in another novel titled for one of these places drop rocks from a quarry to create an object that is later destroyed with blasting powder.
  - In that novel titled for one of these places, a leader's love of whisky leads to the addition of qualifiers like "with sheets" and "to excess" to a list of "Seven Commandments." The skull of Old Major is displayed in one of these places by a character who lies about his role in a battle that was won by his rival, Snowball.
  - For 10 points, name this sort of place ruled by the pig Napoleon in an allegorical novel by George Orwell. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Orlando Gibbons
  - A keyboard work by this composer repeats the notes E and F to commemorate the marriage of a couple with those initials.
  - That work was published in the same volume as this composer's Fantasia of Four Parts and a Pavan and Galliard in A minor later popularized by Glenn Gould.
  - This composer's son had pupils like John Blow, who like this composer served as organist of Westminster Abbey.
  - One vocal work by this composer for tenor solo and choir depicts the prophecy of John the Baptist, while a different secular piece laments there being 'more fools than wise' while describing the death of the title animal.
  - For 10 points, name this English Renaissance composer of the madrigal The Silver Swan. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Gibbons v. Ogden [or Gibbons v. Ogden]
  - Thomas Addis Emmet concluded his argument in this case by quoting the Aeneid, which prompted William Wirt to compare the United States to Troy.
  - Sears, Roebuck & Co. v.
  - Stiffel Co. finally settled an argument that was introduced in this case, which said that federal patents preempted state intellectual property law.
  - This case nullified the decision found by a state Court of Errors in Livingston v.
  - Van Ingen.
  - As business manager for the petitioner in this case, Cornelius Vanderbilt operated with a license obtained from the Federal Coasting Act.
  - In his majority opinion, John Marshall declared that "the power of regulating commerce extends to the regulation of navigation." For 10 points, name this 1824 court case that ruled that a New York steamboat monopoly granted to Robert Fulton was unconstitutional. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Peter Gibbons [accept either]
  - This character is at one point told by his neighbor to turn to channel 19 to see breasts, and that neighbor later tells him "I believe you'd get your ass kicked saying something like that" in response to a question regarding Mondays.
  - This character sees a hypnotist at the behest of his girlfriend, but that hypnotist dies of a heart attack.
  - This character bonds with a girl over a mutual love of the show Kung Fu, and this man is friends with Michael Bolton.
  - This character finds himself promoted after telling two efficiency experts about how little work he does, but his plan to embezzle money with his friends fails dramatically.
  - This character is subject to the whims of his awful boss Lumbergh, played by Gary Cole.
  - For 10 points, name this corporate drone played by Ron Livingston, the main character of Office Space. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Flemish Renaissance composer and publisher Tielman Susato, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Orlando [or Orlande or Roland or Orlandus; accept Orlando di Lasso or Orlando de Lassus or Roland de Lassus or Orlandus Lassus or Orlande de Lassus or Orlande de Lattre or Roland de Lattre; accept Orlando Gibbons]):
    Susato printed the Opus 1 of a Franco-Flemish composer with this first name and the last name Lasso. An English Baroque composer with this first name wrote the madrigal "The Silver Swan."
  Part 2 (ans: Jacobus Clemens non Papa [or Jacob Clemens non Papa; or Jacques Clement] (Clemens non Papa was once thought to mean that he was not Pope Clement VII.)):
    One of Susato's most popular books was his Souterliedekens("SAO-ter-LEE-duh-kens"), a series of Dutch-language psalm settings by this Netherlandish composer, whose nickname was once thought to be an attempt to distinguish him from Giulio di Giuliano de' Medici.
  Part 3 (ans: pavane ("pah-VAHN") [or pavana or padovana or Paduana; accept The Battle Pavane or Battle Pavan; accept Pavane for a Dead Princess or Pavane pour une infante defunte]):
    Susato's own compositions include the collection Danserye("dancer-ee"), which concludes with a "battle" piece in this dance form. Maurice Ravel wrote one of these dances "for a dead princess."

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A teenage girl becomes obsessed with a trio of mysterious women living across the street in Norah Lange's novel People in the Room, which was inspired by a portrait of this family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Brontes [accept the Bronte sisters]):
    Name this family whose members invented the fictional country of Gondal before going on to write novels like The Tenant of Wildfell Hall and Wuthering Heights.
  Part 2 (ans: Cold Comfort Farm (by Stella Gibbons)):
    In this novel, Mr. Mybug theorizes that the Bronte sisters' books were actually written by their brother Branwell. This comic novel chronicles Flora's visit to her relatives in the fictional Sussex village of Howling.
  Part 3 (ans: Daphne du Maurier (The novel is Rebecca.)):
    This writer attempts to "reinstate [Branwell] in his original place in the Bronte family" in a biography titled for Branwell's Infernal World. A novel by this author opens, "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again."

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A book by Carroll Sheriff describes the "paradox of progress" brought upon by a project advocated by this man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: DeWitt Clinton [accept Clinton's Big Ditch or Clinton's folly] (The book is titled "The Artificial River: The Erie Canal and the Paradox of Progress, 1817-1862.")):
    Name this man who, along with flour merchant and prisoner Jesse Hawley, promoted the construction of the Erie Canal. Despite being derided as this man's "folly," the canal enabled the rapid growth of Buffalo.
  Part 2 (ans: Ogden [accept David Aaron Ogden or Aaron Ogden] (Daniel Webster argued for Gibbons in Gibbons v. Ogden.)):
    A member of this family donated 100,000 acres of land purchased from the Holland Land Company to finance the Erie Canal. Daniel Webster argued against another member of this family with a license from Robert Fulton.
  Part 3 (ans: Hudson River School [accept New York School until "river" is read]):
    While Carroll Sheriff describes contemporary views of the canal as a "work of art," artists in this school were ambivalent about the canal. This landscape movement was named for a New York river connected by the Erie Canal.

[B4] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a novel in which rooms of the title property are labeled "Quiete Retreate" and "Greate laundrie," which the protagonist says is like "being locked in the Victoria and Albert Museum after closing time." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stella Gibbons [or Stella Dorothea Gibbons]):
    Name this author who wrote a novel in which the protagonist's Aunt Ada sees "something nasty in the woodshed" as a parody of authors including Sheila Kaye-Smith.
  Part 2 (ans: farms):
    Gibbons included Aunt Ada and Flora Poste in a novel about a Cold Comfort one of these places, another of which is the home of Snowball and Napoleon in a George Orwell novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Wessex (the second novel is Thomas Hardy's Jude the Obscure.)):
    Cold Comfort Farm may have been a parody of John Cowper Powys' novel Wolf Solent, which takes place in a region with this name. While studying in Christminster, a resident of a county with this name falls in love with Sue Bridehead.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The triumphant speaker of Li Bai's "Departing from Baidi in the Morning" leaves behind these animals on each side of the river as his "swift boat passes tens of thousands of mountains." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: apes [accept monkeys; accept simians; accept gibbons; accept macaques; accept hou; prompt on primates]):
    Name these mammals whose "mournful" cries are a stock image in Classical Chinese poetry. These mammals "make sorrowful noise" in the poem "The River Merchant's Wife."
  Part 2 (ans: Du Fu [or Tu Fu; or Dou Fu]):
    The "third call" of an ape moves the speaker to tears in this poet's "Autumn Day in Kiu Prefecture." This friend of Li Bai wrote "Song of the Wagons."
  Part 3 (ans: "Li Sao" [or "Encountering Sorrow"; or "The Lament"; or "Meeting with Sorrow"; or "The Lament on Encountering Sorrows"; or "An Elegy on Encountering Sorrows"; or "The Sadness of Separation"; or "A Shaman's Lament"; or "Confronting Grief"]):
    Like others in the Chu Ci ("choo tsih"), this Qu Yuan ("chew yoo-en") poem about court exile includes the saddening image of apes. The speaker makes several spirit journeys in this poem, which inaugurated a namesake genre of irregular, morose fu.

[B6] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This clause's "dormant" form prohibits state laws which place an undue burden on the interstate form of a certain activity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: commerce clause):
    Name this clause in Article I, Section 8 that gives congress the power to regulate the namesake activity between states and with foreign nations.
  Part 2 (ans: Wickard v. Filburn [accept either]):
    The power of the commerce clause was dramatically increased by this case, in which the Supreme Court ruled that Congress could regulate activities which indirectly affected commerce. This case established the New Deal's Agricultural Adjustments Act as constitutional.
  Part 3 (ans: Gibbons v. Ogden [accept either]):
    In this Marshall court case, overlapping state and federal concessions for operating steamboat lines led the court to define the word "among" in the Commerce clause more strictly. It is considered one of the foundations of Commerce Clause jurisprudence.

[B7] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some composers who were also organist of Westminster Abbey during the 17th century. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orlando Gibbons):
    This composer is known for religious works such as the verse anthem This is the Record of John and secular works such as the madrigal The Silver Swan.
  Part 2 (ans: John Blow):
    This later organist at the Abbey wrote the anthem Lord Thou hast been our refuge and the masque Venus and Adonis which Grove's considers to be the first English opera.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This composer succeeded Blow as organist. He composed the anthem Thou knowest, Lord as well as the semi-opera King Arthur.

[B8] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Some people just hate waterfowl. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gauls):
    These peoples probably were not too fond of the geese that foiled their siege of the Capitoline Hill in the fourth century BCE.
  Part 2 (ans: Orlando Gibbons):
    This composer liked swans, but he trash-talks geese in the madrigal The Silver Swan, claiming "more geese than swans now live, more fools than wise".
  Part 3 (ans: Alan Moore):
    This graphic novel writer claimed ducks "smirk at your hairstyle and sleep with your wife" in Translucia Baboon's "March of the Sinister Ducks". This appears to be the only time that he's objected to ducks, but in one of his works the ornithologically named Sir William Gull commits a series of murders.

[B9] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: One party in this lawsuit was denied the right to operate a steamboat business between New Jersey and New York by a lower court. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gibbons v. Ogden):
    Name this Supreme Court case that determined that Congress could regulate interstate commerce via the Commerce Clause.
  Part 2 (ans: Daniel Webster):
    One of Gibbons' attorneys was this Senator and Secretary of State who delivered the "Reply to Hayne" speech.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Robert Livingston):
    Along with Robert Fulton, this politician held the navigation rights to the waters of New York state, leading to the Gibbons case. As U.S. Minister to France, he negotiated the Louisiana Purchase.

[B10] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Commerce clause jurisprudence, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gibbons v. Ogden (accept either)):
    This seminal 1824 commerce clause case centered on a dispute over ferry services between New Jersey and New York. The Court held that "commerce" included navigation, and therefore the appellee's Congressional grant to run his service superseded New Jersey's contract.
  Part 2 (ans: Schechter Poultry v. United States):
    Before the "switch in time that saved nine" in West Coast Hotel v. Parrish, many economic regulations were struck down by the Supreme Court. In this case, known as the "sick chicken" case, the National Industrial Recovery Act was struck down.
  Part 3 (ans: Wickard v. Filburn (accept either)):
    This case has recently been cited in rulings in favor of the healthcare individual mandate. This 1942 decision held that refraining from participation in interstate commerce is an economic activity, upholding the conviction against a farmer who grew wheat to feed his livestock, breaking the wartime quota system.
