=== STOCK CLUES: Catullus ===
Tossup questions: 17 found, 64 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 22 found, 65 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gaius Valerius Catullus
  - The possibility of this poet "walk[ing] that way!" concludes Yeats's acerbic poem "The Scholars." Louis and Celia Zukofsky controversially created a homophonic translation of this author.
  - In a poem, this poet uses "the stars in the tacit night" and "the sandgrains in the desert" to measure affection from a lover.
  - This author, who wrote an elegy that inspired Anne Carson's book Nox, wrote a poem asking his lover to value the gossip of old men at a single penny. [PWR]
  - The speaker of one poem by this author asks his lover, (*) "Give me a thousand kisses, then a hundred." This poet cries to "let us live, and let us love" in the fifth of his 116 carmina, which is dedicated to the owner of an eroticized pet sparrow, and mourned his brother in the poem "Hail and Farewell." For 10 points, name this Roman poet who addressed his married lover Lesbia. [PWR,GIVE]

[T2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]
  - A poem by this author ends with the image of a "conscious blush" creeping over a "downcast face," part of a lengthy metaphor in which an apple given to a girl by her lover drops out of her blouse when she jumps up to greet her mother.
  - A translation of a poem by this author repeats the word "wrongly" twice in parentheses and forms the thematic inspiration for the poetry box called Nox by Anne Carson.
  - The speaker of a poem by this author is "carried through many nations and over many seas" to "these wretched funeral rites." A poem in elegiac couplets by this author ends with the declaration "hail and farewell," or "ave atque vale." For 10 points, name this Latin poet whose 65th and 101st poems address the death of his brother. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gaius Valerius Catullus [Though only 113 of his poems survive, numbering goes up to 116 due to Muret's error noted in the first line.]
  - Three poems were wrongly attributed to this poet in Marc-Antoine Muret's  1554 edition, but Muret's numbering of his work has been retained.
  - This poet was popularized in late 17th-century France via Jean de la Chapelle's novel about his Adventures.
  - This poet described how gods deign not to "endure the touch of clear daylight" in his longest poem, which opens by describing "the pine trees formerly grown on Mt.
  - Pelion's summit." This Neoteric poet described the wedding of Peleus and Thetis in his sixty-fourth epyllion.
  - A two-line poem by this poet, which notes that "I feel it happening and I am tortured," is one of his 116 carmina.
  - This poet stated "I hate and I love" a woman whose sparrow he mourns in one poem, and who may have been Publius Clodius Pulcher's sister.
  - For 10 points, name this poet who addressed many love poems to Lesbia. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gaius Valerius Catullus
  - This poet's "bedspread" is the title of a fictional biography of him by Daisy Dunn.
  - Algernon Swinburne opens a poem addressed to this author by calling him "my brother." Poems five and six in "The Forest" by Ben Jonson draw from a poem by this author in which he values the "rumors of the old men" to be "worth just one penny." That poem is addressed to a figure from whom this author demands "a thousand (*) kisses, then a hundred, then another thousand." In another poem, this author attempts to "speak, though in vain, to your silent ashes." This poet, who wrote about his lover's sparrow in another poem, addressed his dead brother with the lines "Hail and Farewell," or "Ave Atque Vale." For 10 points, name this Roman poet who wrote many love poems to Lesbia. [PWR,GIVE]

[T5] 2021 Vedul's Short Poetry Packet (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus Carmen 5 [accept "Vivamus, mea Lesbia, atque amemus" or "Let us live, my Lesbia, and let us love" or clear knowledge equivalents; prompt on Carmen 5 until "Catullus"]
  - NOTE TO PLAYERS: A description of the first line of this poem is acceptable until mentioned. [PWR]
  - The speaker of this poem instructs the addressee to "confuse them so as not to know them all, / so that no enemy may cast an evil eye" by knowing a certain number. [PWR]
  - The addressee of this poem is told to value "rumors of... old men... at just one penny." The speaker reminds the addressee of this poem about the fleeting nature of their relationship by saying " when our brief light has set, / night is one long everlasting sleep." The speaker of this poem asks his lover to (*) "give me a thousand kisses, a hundred more." For 10 points, name this Carmen by Catullus which opens "Let us live, my Lesbia, and let us love." [PWR,GIVE]

[T6] 2021 MUSES II (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus's Carmen 16 [prompt on any answer that doesn't mention Catullus by asking "Who wrote the poem?"; accept "Pedicabo ego vos et irrumabo"]
  - Kenneth Quinn argued that this poem is the prime example of wit that is characteristic of many urbanitas poems that its author wrote. [PWR]
  - In a different poem, the addressees of this poem are compared to people who would "penetrate the seas which the sevenfold Nile colors" and "walk across the high Alps," telling them to "announce a few bad words to my girl." Michael Broder argued that this poem is an early example of camp, connecting the word "mollis" as referring to being sexually submissive. [PWR]
  - Thomas Nelson Winter said that this poem's history is the "history of (*) two of its fourteen lines." The narrator of this poem says that his poems have the wit and charm to arouse old men. [PWR]
  - The addressees of this poem think of the narrator as being less of a man after reading about his many kisses.
  - For 10 points, name this poem addressed to Furius and Aurelius, often considered one of the earliest examples of pornographic poetry for its first line, "I will sodomize and face-fuck you." [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]
  - Louis Zukofsky rendered a line from one of this author's galliambic poems into the nonsense line "the cat's cut out is cool rare air" in a homophonic translation of this author's works.
  - The O source is one of three manuscripts directly descended from this author's lost Verona manuscript.
  - This author feels guilty for stealing "a kiss more sweet than sweet ambrosia" in a poem addressed to a man named Juventius .
  - This poet places gifts "dripping much with fraternal weeping" on the grave of his brother in a poem that ends with the sendoff "Hail and farewell." One of this author's poems thrice asks its addressee to "give me a thousand kisses, then a hundred" and opens by proclaiming "Let us live...and let us love." For 10 points, name this emotional Roman poet and lover of Lesbia. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus 101 (or Carmen 101 , or " Hail and Farewell ;" accept just 101 after "Catullus," accept " Ave atque vale " before mention; accept " Multas per gentes " before "Many the peoples" and prompt after)
  - In Book XI  of the Aeneid , Aeneas laments "Now the horrible fates of war call me to more sorrows" before addressing a quote from this poem to Pallas.
  - A translation of this poem that translates the adverb " nequiquam " (neh-KWEE-kwam) as the parenthetical question "(why?)" was included as the first page of a collection published in accordion format. [PWR]
  - Many translations of this poem do not preserve the parallel phrasing between " te postremo donarem munere " (teh post-REH-mo do-NAH-rem MOO-neh-reh) in this poem's third line with " tradita sunt tristi munere " (TRA-dee-tah soont TREES-tee MOO-neh-reh) in its third to last line. [PWR]
  - It's not by Sappho, but Anne Carson used a word-by-word translation to render this poem's first line as (*) "Many the peoples many the oceans I crossed." The final line of this poem begins with the words " atque in perpetuum " (AHT-kweh een pur-PET-oo-oom) , meaning "and for eternity." Since "Fortune has taken your own self away from me," this poem is addressed to "silent ashes." For 10 points, name this elegiac poem by Catullus written in honor of his brother, whose title is often given as an English translation of its final words, " ave atque vale " (AH-weh AHT-kweh WAH-leh) . [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Gaius Valerius Catullus (the first clue is Catullus 58)
  - In one poem, this author wrote about a woman who, "in the crossroads and in alleyways," "peels the grandsons of" a mythological man. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem by this author states that, "if anything" "pleasing to silent tombs is able to happen from our grief," the dead wife of Calvus must be "rejoicing" from love. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem by this author claims that he felt "crucified on the highest cross" after a woman (+) wiped away a stolen kiss that was "more sweet than sweet ambrosia." This author described pine trees on "Mount Pelion's summit" at the beginning of his only (*) epyllion. [PWR]
  - This author created a speaker who curses the "evil Shades of Orcus" as the "destroyers of beauty" in a poem that mourns the death of a creature that was "sweeter than honey." This author asks for 3300 kisses in a poem that opens by telling the addressee, "Let us live...and let us love." For 10 points, name this Roman poet whose 116 carmina talk about his love for Lesbia. [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gaius Vallerius Catullus
  - In one work by this writer he adopted the metaphor of an earlier poet by comparing his estranged lover to a flower broken down by a plough, and in the same poem he describes Britain as 'horribly distant'.
  - A poem by this author, attacks a door for disloyalty, to which the door replies that a woman living in the house had her virginity taken by her husband's father.
  - This poet described a girl offering her fingertip to a pet sparrow in one poem and in this poet's longest work, poem 64, concerns the wedding of Peleus and Thetis and contains a notable ekphrasis in which the details on a coverlet prompt a description of Ariadne's fate.
  - For 10 points, name this Roman poet and lover of Lesbia, known for writing obscene poems. [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 OCTAVIAN (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus 64 or his epyllion (accept Marriage of Peleus and Thetis before the giveaway) [yes, that is 2009 University Challenge icon Dr Gail Trimble]
  - Gail Trimble has suggested that "we might have invented the genre" this poem is categorized in simply because of this "important, widely read and perplexing Latin poem".
  - This poem addresses those "born in a chosen race", and later laments "afterwards earth was tainted by impious wickedness".
  - The Three Fates sing a gloomy (*) epithalamium with the repeated line "fly, guiding threads, fly spindle" predicting the birth, life and death of Achilles, future child of the wedded couple.
  - With an extended ekphrasis of the tale of Ariadne and Theseus, for 10 points, name this longest poem of 1st century BC neoteric poet, about the marriage of Peleus and Thetis. [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus 64
  - A woman in this poem is compared to a "Bacchante's stone statue," and doesn't care that her clothes have fallen to her feet so that her hair is "not in place under delicate scarf," her bosom is "not covered by thin outer dress," and her "milk-white breasts" are "not bound under smooth inner dress." The ending of this poem comments on how humanity's sins convinced the gods no longer to visit us, "nor endure the touch of clear daylight." This poem opens by mentioning pine trees from Mount Pelion swimming through the waters of Neptune, an oblique description of the Argo.
  - A longekphrastic digression in this (*) dactylic hexameter poem describes a coverlet depicting Ariadne abandoned by Theseus, but it is nominally about the wedding of Peleus and Thetis.
  - For 10 points, name this epyllion by Catullus, his longest poem. [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]
  - In one parody by this author, Love indicates his approval to a young couple by sneezing. [PWR]
  - One of this author's poems reviles a miser who has neither "beetles nor spiders nor fire," has a "body drier than bone," and believes that "sufficiency is riches." In one poem, this man harangues a friend who is stealing his napkins.
  - This poet laments that his girlfriend's eyes are red with weeping in one poem; he tells that girl to "give me a thousand kisses" because "night is one long everlasting sleep" in a poem beginning (*) "Let us live... let us love." This poet threatened to sodomize Furius and Aurelius in Carmen 16.
  - "I hate and I love...I feel it happening and I am tormented" was written by this poet, who mourned the death of his lover's sparrow in another work.
  - For 10 points, name this Roman poet who wrote "Hail and farewell" and addressed many poems to Lesbia. [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus
  - One poem by this author describes how the "earth was stained with unspeakable crime / And all chased justice from their desirous minds" as part of the coming of the Iron Age. [PWR]
  - In another poem, this author implores, "let us judge all the rumors of old men / To be worth just one penny" and asks a woman to give him "a thousand kisses, then another hundred." Another poem by this author tells its addressee, "take from my hands these sad gifts covered in tears" and ends with the phrase (*) "ave atque vale," or "hail and farewell." In addition to that poem about his brother's death, this author wrote a poem that singles out Aurelius and Furius for criticizing his poetry and begins with a threat to "sodomize" the two men.
  - For 10 points, name this Roman poet who addressed many poems to his lover Lesbia. [GIVE]

[T15] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gaius Valerius Catullus
  - This poet abuses one of his acquaintances for his lack of success with women on account of the caprine stench that comes from his armpits, while in another poem he insults the work of a rival poet as "papyrus droppings".In this poet's longest surviving work, the primary narrative of the wedding of Thetis and Peleus is subverted by a lengthy ekphrasis on a bedspread depicting the story of Theseus and Ariadne - that epyllion is numbered 64.
  - To his dead brother he finishes "ave atque vale, frater".
  - For 10 points, name this 1st Century BC poet, who in two different poems addresses the sparrow of his on-and-off again lover, Lesbia? [GIVE]

[T16] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gaius Valerius Catullus
  - This man described another writer's volume as "wrapping for mackerel" in a poem celebrating the publishing of his friend's work Smyrna.
  - The speaker of one of his poems remarks that "Leisure has destroyed kings and blessed cities" and describes his jealousy of a man who "seems to me to be equal to a god." In one poem, this man compared a figure who "does not use his left hand too well" while stealing napkins to his close friends (*) Fabullus and Veranius. [PWR]
  - A vulgar poem by this man addresses two men with the question "Do you think me less of a man?" before promising to "sodomize and face-fuck" them.
  - This man described his brother's death in a poem ending with the exclamation "Hail and farewell!" For 10 points, name this Roman elegiac poet and lover of Lesbia. [GIVE]

[T17] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Catullus' Carmen 16 (accept "pedicabo ego vos et irrumabo" or translations of the first line like "I will sodomize you and irrumate you" before mention)
  - One of the addressees of this poem had an affair with Juventius and usually went by his cognomen Bibaculus, and the author of this poem describes him as "pathice." This poem's author attacks those who "think him less of a man" after having read of his ($) "countless kisses," and takes pride in the fact that his poems can arouse an itch in "hairy old men / who can't get it up." This poem, written in a (*) hendecasyllabic meter, sees its author threaten to sodomize the "little bitch" Furius and his friend Aurelius. [PWR]
  - For ten points, identify this awesome poem by Catullus. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Theocritus's ("thee-AHK-rih-tuss's") eighteenth Idyll includes a song in this form in honor of Menelaus ("men-uh-LAY-us") and Helen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: epithalamion ("ep-uh-thuh-LAM-ee-on") [or epithalamium] (The English poem is by Edmund Spenser)):
    Name this genre of Greek poem written for a bride upon her marriage, which takes its name from the word for "bedchamber." An English poem with this title was written in 1594 for the poet's marriage to Elizabeth Boyle.
  Part 2 (ans: carpenters [or workmen; or builders; or tektones andres; accept "raise high the roofbeam, carpenters"]):
    A famous epithalamion by Sappho, which celebrates a bridegroom "taller than Ares," begins with an enthusiastic appeal to these people.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    This Roman poet, who wrote several imitations of epithalamiaby Sappho, is better known for his agonized love poems to the pseudonymous Lesbia.

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This person's forehead is encircled by "a light of fire as a crown forever" in a poem by an author who also wrote a poem that begins with this person saying, "My life is bitter with thy love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sappho [accept "Sapphics"] (The poems in the lead-in are "Sapphics" and "Anactoria" by Algernon Swinburne.)):
    Name this person who "died on the day of" committing "blasphemy" according to a poem which notes how this person "departed / To find out if the sea is indulgent and kind."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire] (The six poems are the "condemned poems." The collection is Les Epaves.)):
    The poem "Lesbos," along with "The Jewels" and "To She Who Is Too Gay," is part of a group of six censored poems by this author later republished in a collection titled for "scraps" or "wrecks."
  Part 3 (ans: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]):
    Algernon Swinburne asks Baudelaire to "take at my hands this garland, and farewell" in the elegy "Ave Atque Vale," which is titled in reference to an elegy by this Latin author written for his brother.

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 2009 discussion with Mary Beard, NPR bleeped out even the Latin version of a poem by this author addressed to Aurelius and Furius. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus ):
    Name this author whose Carmen 16 was often left partially or completely untranslated due to its graphic language. This Roman poet addressed many of his poems to his lover, Lesbia.
  Part 2 (ans: Juventius ):
    Miriam Kamil notes that one of the "more fanciful" instances of censorship of Catullus was to pretend that this male addressee of four love poems by Catullus was a girl named Crastinia with a boyish nickname.
  Part 3 (ans: dactylic hexameter [prompt on heroic hexameter]):
    Catullus 63, sometimes censored for describing the priest Attis's mutilation out of devotion to Cybele, uses the rare galliambic meter instead of Catullus's usual meters, such as this meter that was also used for the Iliad and Odyssey.

[B4] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One fragment translated by this author states "not one girl I think / who looks on the light of the sun / will ever / have wisdom / like this." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anne  Carson):
    Name this Canadian poet, who translated Sappho's poems in the collection If Not, Winter . This author drew on Stesichorus for the verse novel Autobiography of Red .
  Part 2 (ans:  Nox):
    This work by Carson, created as a personal epitaph for her brother, consists of a box containing a single sheet of paper folded into a concertina.
  Part 3 (ans: (Gaius Valerius)  Catullus):
    Nox incorporates this author's poem 101, which tells his dead brother " ave atque vale " or "hail and farewell". This Roman poet addressed many love poems to Lesbia.

[B5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem adapts Virgil's comparison of Neoptolemus to a snake after shedding its skin in a description of Rodomonte, who is literally wearing armor made of snake skin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orlando Furioso):
    Name this Italian Renaissance poem by Ludovico Ariosto, in which the title knight goes insane from his unrequited love for Angelica.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruggiero [or Roger]):
    Rodomonte is ultimately slain by this ancestor of the D'Este family after interrupting this man's wedding feast. This knight rescues a princess from a water-dwelling orc while riding a hippogriff.
  Part 3 (ans: Catullus 64):
    Ariosto drew on this Catullus poem for his depiction of Bireno ditching Olympia. Peleus's wedding to Thetis is the frame story of this epyllion, which is mostly a treatment of Theseus's abandonment of Ariadne.

[B6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet asked his lover to "give me a thousand kisses," since "night is one long everlasting sleep," in a poem that begins with the line "let us live...let us love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]):
    Name this Roman poet, who dedicated many poems to his lover Lesbia. His 101st poem ends with the line "hail and farewell."
  Part 2 (ans: his brother [prompt on his sibling]):
    Catullus's 101st poem is addressed to a person with this relationship to him. A fragment of Sappho's surviving poetry concerns Charaxos and Larichos, who had this relationship to Sappho.
  Part 3 (ans: Carmen Sixteen [or Catullus 16]):
    This Catullus poem is about his hate for the critics Aurelius and Furius, men whom he hates so much that he threatens to "sodomize and face-fuck" them.

[B7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's entire known body of work primarily consists of six poems that some scholars contentiously ascribe to her contemporary, Tibullus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sulpicia):
    Name this Augustan woman poet, who is the most commonly attributed author of six poems addressed to a pseudonymous lover named Cerinthus.
  Part 2 (ans: elegy [or elegiac couplet]):
    Sulpicia's six poems were written in this couplet form used by Tibullus and Sextus Propertius. Another poem in this form, which consists of a hexameter verse and a pentameter verse, ends with the phrase "ave atque vale" ("AH-way AT-kway WAH-lay").
  Part 3 (ans: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]):
    "Ave atque vale" is the final phrase of an elegiac poem by this Roman poet. He wrote many poems about his lover Lesbia, including one that describes her pet sparrow.

[B8] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Theocritus wrote his Idylls during this period. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Hellenistic period [accept the Alexandrian period]):
    Name this period of Greek literature which followed the Classical. It is characterised by short, erudite texts, but includes epics such as Apollonius Rhodius' Argonautica.
  Part 2 (ans: Callimachus):
    This Cyrenian poet seemingly encapsulates Hellenistic ideals by stating that 'a big book is a big evil'. Ironically, his Aitia is an extremely long poetic collection of Greek legends and customs.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    This later poet translated Callimachus' Lock of Berenice into Latin. This poet's first poem acknowledges the Hellenistic poetic tradition with the words 'to whom shall I dedicate this new slim little book?'

[B9] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Six poems from the contentious third volume of poetry traditionally ascribed to this author are now believed to have been written by Sulpicia, making them a rare example of surviving poetry from the ancient world written by a woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albius Tibullus):
    Name this poet. Their works include an early homosexual cycle addressed to the young Marathus, though their best-known poems are addressed to the lower-class Delia and the higher-class Nemesis.
  Part 2 (ans: Lesbia [accept Clodia Pulchra]):
    This person was also the addressee of many Roman poems, including one beginning 'Odi et amo', or 'I hate and I love [you]'. Another poem by the same author describes how this woman's pet sparrow has died.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    This author of many love poems to Lesbia also threatened to 'sodomise' the critics Furius and Aurelius in another of his poems. His 64th poem is an epyllion ostensibly about the marriage of Peleus and Thetis.

[B10] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An elegiac couplet typically consists of a line in this meter followed by a line in pentameter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dactylic hexameter [prompt on hexameter; prompt on epic meter or heroic hexameter]):
    Name this poetic meter often described as "epic" for its use in such works as the Iliad, Odyssey, and Aeneid.
  Part 2 (ans: Catullus 64):
    Theseus's abandonment of Ariadne is depicted in a long ekphrastic passage of this epyllion in dactylic hexameter that centers on the wedding of Peleus and Thetis. It is the longest poem by Catullus.
  Part 3 (ans: Sappho):
    Catullus 51 mostly translates a fragment in which this poet described a lover who seems "to be equal to a god." Both poems use the stanza named for this female poet from Lesbos.

[B11] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet advised "boys, be in nothing so moderate as in love of man" in a poem in which he remembers "the flower fades to make fruit, the fruit rots / to make earth." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robinson Jeffers [or John Robinson Jeffers]):
    Name this poet of "Shine, Perishing Republic." This proponent of Inhumanism in poetry said that he "made stone love stone" in building his poem "Tor House."
  Part 2 (ans: Catullus):
    In "Be Angry at the Sun," Jeffers tells critics of America that "you are not [this poet] you know, / to lampoon these crude sketches of Caesar." This ancient poet wrote an elegy for his lover's pet sparrow.
  Part 3 (ans: World War I [or WWI; accept the Great War]):
    Jeffers wrote "God built our peace and plastered it with wars" in a poem about this war, which is the subject of Wilfred Owen's poem "Dulce et Decorum est."

[B12] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Being jealous of a bird - it happens to the best of us. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catullus):
    In one poem, this Roman author wishes that he could play with his lover Lesbia like her pet sparrow, and later laments at her sorrow when it dies. He threatened to sodomize Furius and Aurelius in Carmen 16.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustavo Adolfo Becquer):
    The return of "dark swallows" symbolizes the end of a relationship in this Spanish post-Romantic poet's The Book of Sparrows. He wrote "What is poetry?... Poetry is you" in Rimas.
  Part 3 (ans: Miss Julie):
    In this play, the title character's lover decapitates her canary Serena after she tries to bring it with them on their quest to run away and start a hotel.

[B13] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In reflecting on this task, a character from Jeanette Winterson's Art and Lies shouts "HOW COULD YOU HAVE DONE THIS TO MY POEMS?", which are "more mutilated than a Saturday night whore." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: translating Sappho [or producing translations of Sappho; prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this task undertaken in a seminal 1958 book by Mary Barnard. A less literal approach to this task was taken by Anne Carson in a 2002 book that takes its title from the line "If not winter... no pain."
  Part 2 (ans: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]):
    Anne Carson meditated on her brother's death in Nox, which opens with a poem in which this author describes carrying his own brother's ashes, ending with the line "hail and farewell." He adapted Sappho 31 into his own fifty-first poem.
  Part 3 (ans: On the Sublime [or Peri hypsous] (by Longinus)):
    This work reproduces Sappho 31, asking the reader "Are you not amazed at how she evokes soul, body, hearing, tongue, sight, skin?" and comparing it to Homer's description of the "most savage aspects" of storms.

[B14] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem, the death one of these animals is celebrated with the epitaph "In talking I did ev'ry bird excel / and my tomb proves my mistress lov'd me well". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: parrot [or psittacines; prompt on birdie]):
    Name this kind of animal, one of which that belonged to Corinna was the subject of an elegy by Ovid in his poetry collection Amores.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    Ovid's elegy on the death of Corinna's parrot was likely inspired by this other Roman poet's "My Mistress's Sparrow is Dead." It is likely that the mistress in that poem is Lesbia, this author's lover.
  Part 3 (ans: Silvae):
    This Latin poetry collection contains the poem Psittacus Eiusdem, which is an account of a parrot's death and funeral. The five books of this poetry collection, written near the end of the first century CE, open with an ekphrasis on an equestrian statue of Domitian.

[B15] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem of this type relates Odysseus's visit to the island of Aeolus and his affair with Aeolus's daughter Polymele. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: epyllion [or epyllia]):
    Name these poems which are stylistically similar to epics but are way shorter. Philitas's Hermes and Callimachus's Hecale are examples of these "little epics," which flourished in the Hellenistic period.
  Part 2 (ans: Theocritus):
    This poet wrote epyllia about the apotheosis of Hylas and the killing of the snakes by the infant Heracles in the thirteenth and twenty-fourth of his Idylls, which popularized the genre of bucolic poetry. Elizabeth Barrett Browning invokes him at the start of her Sonnets from the Portuguese.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    An epyllion describing via ekphrasis the abandonment of Ariadne by Theseus is the sixty-fourth and longest poem by this Latin author who addressed a bunch of love poetry to Lesbia.

[B16] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This tutor to Henry VIII claimed to be the poet-laureate of England. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Skelton):
    Name this author of the morality play Magnificence who satirized the customs of the clergy through his character of Colyn Cloute.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    Clout's book about Phyllyp Sparowe pays homage to this poet who lived in Roman times, wrote many poems to Lesbia, and dismissed two of his critical friends with the obscene line "I will sodomize you and I will face-fuck you."

[B17] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify some Roman poets who actually wrote about women, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    This man addressed many of his carmina to a woman named Lesbia. He described being "torn apart" by the title feelings in "Odi et Amo" and vowed to "sodomize and face-fuck" his rivals in another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Simonides of Amorgos [or Semonides of Amorgos; do NOT accept "Simonides of Ceos"]):
    This author's satirical poem "Types of Women" describes Zeus creating ten types of women. The first nine women come from various animals and are degenerate, but the tenth one, who is born from a bee, is virtuous.
  Part 3 (ans: Sextus Propertius):
    This Augustan poet addressed many of his poems to his lover Cynthia. His only surviving works are four books of Elegies, whose proem addressed to Tullus praises him for teaching him to not love chaste women.

[B18] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet addressed a "deathless daughter of Zeus", who rides a dove-drawn chariot, in her hymn to Aphrodite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sappho of Lesbos):
    Name this author who, according to legend, loved a boatman named Phaon. This ancient female poet from Lesbos is sometimes called the "Tenth Muse."
  Part 2 (ans: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]):
    This Latin poet adapted Sappho for the 51st of his 116 surviving carmina, "Ille mi par esse deo videtur." He also wrote about travelling across many peoples and harsh seas to bid farewell to his dead brother.
  Part 3 (ans: Anne Carson):
    This contemporary author and classics professor adapted Sappho for If Not, Winter. She drew on Catullus 101 for her book NOX, which opens like an accordion, and updated the myth of Geryon in Autobiography of Red.

[B19] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A lost master of this form was Cornelius Gallus, and it was used to write the calendar poem Fasti by Ovid. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: elegy [or elegaic]):
    Name this popular form of Roman poetry, which involved couplets of a hexameter and pentameter line.
  Part 2 (ans: Albius Tibullus):
    This mysterious poet, called the greatest of the elegists by Quintilian and others, wrote love elegies to women he called "Delia" and "Nemesis" before his 19 BCE death, which was appropriately commemorated by en elegy about him in Ovid's Amores.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    This poet's elegies include "I Hate And I Love" and a recounting of crossing many lands and much ocean to attend his brother's funeral. He wrote poems to Lesbia.

[B20] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these Roman poets, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    One of this author's poems threatens to sodomize and irrumate Aurelius and Furius. This lyricist wrote many of his poems about Clodia, whom he anonymized as Lesbia in honor of Sappho.
  Part 2 (ans: Publius Ovidius Naso):
    This man wrote a poem promising that his ghost will attack the addressee after his death and threatens to mutilate the subject and force him to eat human flesh. This author of "Ibis" also wrote the Tristia and Letters from the Black Sea to lament his exile.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcus Annaeus Lucanus):
    This member of the Pisonian Conspiracy was forced to commit suicide at the age of twenty-five, but not before composing the epic Pharsalia, depicting the Pompey-Caesar civil war, and a criticism of Nero, On the Burning of the City.

[B21] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem addressed to this man calls him "a name not to be worn out with the years." His own works include one which says of its addressee, "[she] was the first... to trap me with her eyes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sextus Propertius):
    Name this poet of four books of Elegies, the first of which was addressed to his lover, Cynthia.
  Part 2 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    This other Roman poet wrote Carmen Saeculare and an early Ars Poetica and also coined the aphorism "carpe diem" in his Odes.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    This poet addressed his brother "though in vain, to [his] silent ashes" after traveling through "many nations and over many seas." That work by this man ends with the line "ave atque vale."

[B22] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of his poems harangues a "stinking adulteress" for stealing his writing tables, while another accuses Marrucinus Asinus of stealing one of his linen dining napkins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    Name this man who wrote two poems about a sparrow his lover held to her breast before its death. One hundred sixteen of his carmina survived the Middle Ages in a single copy.
  Part 2 (ans: Sappho):
    Catullus's fifty-first poem is a paraphrase of this Greek female poet of a "Hymn to Aphrodite," who hailed from Lesbos.
  Part 3 (ans: hendecasyllables [or hendecasyllabic meter]):
    Much like Sappho, Catullus used this non-dactylic meter in forty-three of his poems. He explicitly notes his use of it against rivals in the aforementioned tablet and napkin poems.
