=== STOCK CLUES: Phidias ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Phidias [or Pheidias]
  - To reconstruct a sculpture by this artist, Adolf Furtwangler  attached a head from the Pelagio Palagi to a body kept in Dresden.
  - An inscription calling a wrestler beautiful appears on the little finger of a statue by this artist.
  - Although this artist likely didn't use the number, Mark Barr referenced this sculptor's name when he symbolized the golden ratio.
  - A Lawrence Alma-Tadema painting depicts this artist presenting a frieze of the Panathenaic  games to his friends.
  - Alan LeQuire recreated a sculpture by this artist in the naos of a William Crawford Smith project in Centennial Park, Nashville.
  - This artist and his patron Pericles appear on the shield of a chryselephantine  sculpture by him wearing gold and holding a small Nike.
  - For 10 points, name this Athenian sculptor of the Statue of Zeus at Olympia and of the Athena in the Parthenon. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Delta Burke (2019) | Diff: 6 | Science
     Answer: golden ratio [or golden mean; or golden section; or golden proportion; or mean of Phidias; accept divine in place of golden; accept phi or numerical equivalents before mentioned]
  - If the smallest edge of a Kepler triangle is one, then the hypotenuse equals the square of this number. [PWR]
  - A continued fraction comprised only of ones can be used to express this number. [PWR]
  - A regular pentagon whose side length is one will have diagonals with a length of this irrational number, which is also a positive solution to the equation x-squared minus x minus one equals zero. [PWR]
  - Consecutive numbers in the (*) Fibonacci sequence converge to this value, which is approximately 1.618 and symbolized phi.
  - For 10 points, name this number that is equal to one plus the square root of five, all divided by two. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Pliny the Elder wrote that Polykleitos won a contest to sculpt a wounded one of these subjects for the Temple of Artemis, which became a popular origin story for five surviving statue types. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amazons [accept Amazonomachy]):
    Name these subjects depicted in the Lansdowne, Sosicles, and Mattei types. The Bassae Frieze depicts a centauromachy and two battles against these subjects.
  Part 2 (ans: bronze):
    Though most surviving copies are in marble, the five Amazon statues were supposedly in this metal. Boy With Thorn and the Capitoline She-Wolf are classical sculptures made with this metal using the lost-wax process.
  Part 3 (ans: Phidias [or Pheidias]):
    This Athenian came second in the contest to sculpt an Amazon. This sculptor included an Amazonomachy on the shield of his colossal Athena in the Parthenon.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A royal portrait by this artist features a medallion of Raphael's Madonna della Seggiola. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Dominique Ingres ("ANG-ruh")):
    Name this painter of Napoleon I on His Imperial Throne, who also portrayed a woman with an unrealistically long back in La Grande Odalisque.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles or Carolus] (The period is the Carolingian Renaissance.)):
    In the painting, Napoleon holds a scepter that has a statuette of this ruler at the end. This ruler inaugurated an artistic period that produced the illuminated Ebbo Gospels and the Palatine Chapel designed by Odo of Metz.
  Part 3 (ans: Statue of Zeus at Olympia [or Olympian Zeus; accept answers indicating Phidias's sculpture of Zeus]):
    In Ingres's painting, Napoleon's pose is modeled on descriptions of this sculpture. Pausanias claims that this sculpture wore a glass robe and held a figurine of Nike.

[B3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Mark Barr used a Greek symbol similar to this sculptor's name to represent the golden ratio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Phidias [or Pheidias]):
    Name this ancient Greek sculptor who depicted an enthroned deity holding a scepter in the Statue of Zeus at Olympia. The Elgin Marbles were created under the supervision of this sculptor.
  Part 2 (ans: Athena [accept Athena Parthenos; accept Athena Promachos]):
    Phidias created a giant bronze statue of this goddess with the epithet "Promachos". Phidias also created a statue of this Greek goddess of wisdom for the Parthenon.
  Part 3 (ans: chryselephantine sculpture):
    Both the Statue of Zeus at Olympia and the Athena Parthenos were examples of these sculptures. The Palaikastro Kouros is one of these sculptures, which are made with gold and ivory.

[B4] 2022 Boilermaker Spring Novice (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In antiquity, this building held a massive chryselephantine sculpture of Athena at its center, whose ivory panels would have been brightly painted. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Parthenon):
    Name this Athenian temple on the Acropolis dedicated to the namesake aspect of Athena. Greece has argued for the repatriation of the so-called Elgin Marbles, a collection of statuary plundered from this temple.
  Part 2 (ans: Phidias):
    Evidence that this sculptor's works were brightly colored was erased when the British Museum "cleaned" them. This ancient Greek sculptor designed the Athena Parthenos as well as the Statue of Zeus at Olympia.
  Part 3 (ans: contrapposto):
    The lack of color in many surviving Greek marbles led early art historians to study their form more closely, including this pose ubiquitous in Greek and Roman sculpture that shows the subject with most weight on one foot.

[B5] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This sculptor was accused by Pericles' enemies of embezzling money to fund one of his projects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Phidias):
    Name this ancient Greek sculptor who created a 41-foot tall statue of Zeus for the temple dedicated to the deity at Olympia.
  Part 2 (ans: Seven Wonders of the Ancient World [prompt on partial answers]):
    The statue of Zeus created by Phidias was a member of this group of notable ancient landmarks that included the Colossus of Rhodes and the Pyramids of Giza.
  Part 3 (ans: Acropolis of Athens [prompt on Parthenon or Athens]):
    Phidias created three massive statues of one Greek deity, including one in bronze and one in gold and ivory, for this elevated location, which was also the site of the massive Propylaea Gate.

[B6] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Paul Bartlett’s Apotheosis of Democracy is a sculpture located on this element of the U.S. Capitol. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pediments):
    Name this triangular architectural elements that are typically supported by columns and include a flat surface called a tympanum that often contains relief sculptures.
  Part 2 (ans: Parthenon):
    Pediments depicting the birth of Athena from Zeus' forehead and the contest between Athena and Poseidon once adorned this temple to Athena on the Acropolis.
  Part 3 (ans: Phidias [or Pheidias]):
    This classical Greek sculptor designed the chryselephantine sculpture Athena Parthenos once found in the Parthenon, as well as the Statue of Zeus at Olympia that was a Wonder of the Ancient World.
