=== STOCK CLUES: Kalmar Union ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 35 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Kalmar Union [or Kalmarunionen or Unio Calmariensis; begrudgingly prompt on Denmark or Sweden or Norway alone before mentioned; do NOT accept or prompt on "Denmark-Norway"] (The Union Document was invoked during Eric of Pomerania's reaffirmation as King of Sweden in 1436. The city in the second sentence is Wismar.)
  - Two foundation charters of this polity included the "Letter of Coronation" and another document that was used to force concession of castles and len to a subregion's natives after a rebellion. [PWR]
  - One city wrote to Wilhelm of Geldern about the "eternal ruin" that this polity's formation would cause to the "towns".
  - A power struggle between the Niklotids and a northern rival preceded the formation of this polity, which has been seen as an "imperfect peace league" during the reign of a man nicknamed the "Bark King" due to bad harvests, (*) Christopher of Bavaria.Unity within this polity diminished after the Engelbrekt rebellion, faced by Eric of Pomerania, who was later deposed from all three of its constituents. [PWR]
  - Established by Margaret I in 1397, for 10 points, name this personal union of Denmark, Sweden and Norway. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Kalmar Union [prompt on Norway, Sweden, or Denmark, or Denmark-Norway]
  - It's not Muscovy, but after the death of a ruler of this state at age 10, a "false" version of him attempted to claim the throne until it was discovered that he knew none of this state's language.
  - This state lost legitimacy after suffering a major defeat to a peasant militia from the town of Dithmarschen. [PWR]
  - A ruler of this state failed in his attempt to impose his cousin, Boguslav, as his successor, leading him to go into exile and briefly take command of a (*) pirate fleet. [PWR]
  - This state began to disintegrate after the rule of the tyrannical Eric of Pomerania.
  - This state's creation was organized by its first queen, Margaret, to counter the influence of the Hanseatic League on trade in the Baltic Sea.
  - For 10 points, name this short-lived fifteenth-century state that unified the crowns of Norway, Denmark, and Sweden. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Kalmar Union [prompt on Sweden, Denmark, Norway] <AP>
  - The visit of this polity's third ruler to Italy is commemorated by Romaninio's extensive frescoes at Malapaga Castle, while Philippa of Lancaster acted as its regent during its first ruler's pilgrimage to Jerusalem.
  - It's not Bohemia, but peasants in this polity successfully used wagons as defensive barriers at the Battle of St Jorgen's [YOR-gens] Hill, opposing this polity's Bark King, Christopher of Bavaria.
  - This polity, devised by Margaret I and confirmed by her adoption of her nephew Boguslaw [Bog-u-slav] was dissolved after the election of Gustav Vasa.
  - Named after the site of Eric of Pomerania's 1397 triple coronation, for 10 points name this political entity formed out of the kingdoms of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Kalmar Union [or Union of Kalmaris; or Kalmarunionen; or Unio Calmariensis]
  - This entity's establishment on the feast day of a saint from Antioch reflected its organizer's birth in prison.
  - This entity entered a defensive alliance with England after its first leader married a non-Portuguese Philippa of Lancaster; that marriage was part of an unsuccessful plan to also marry its first leader's sister to the Prince of Wales.
  - One of this body's leaders was nicknamed the "Bark King" after a series of bad harvests; that figure, Christopher of Bavaria, became this body's leader after its first head's overthrow.
  - The nickname "King Pantsless" was given to this polity's organizer by Albert of Mecklenburg, whose defeat allowed this body's creation by the regent for the child king Olav IV.
  - This entity's first ruler changed his name from Bogislav to lead this organization, which was founded to counter the power of the Hanseatic League.
  - For 10 points, name this combination of three kingdoms set up to be ruled by Erik of Pomerania by the connivances of Margaret I of Denmark. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the incestuous mixing of Scandinavian nations, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    In 1397, Queen Margaret I of Denmark engineered this union of her country with Norway and Sweden to check the Hanseatic League.
  Part 2 (ans: Sten Sture the Elder [or Sten Sture the younger; prompt on partial answer]):
    The Kalmar Union was greatly weakened when the regent of Sweden by this name revolted against Christian I of Denmark at Brunkeberg. Another man of this name had his body exhumed and burnt at the stake during the Stockholm Bloodbath.
  Part 3 (ans: Convention of Moss):
    At this 1814 convention, which followed the Treaty of Kiel, the defeated Norway was forced into a personal union with Sweden ruled jointly by Swedish king Charles XIII, which lasted until 1905.

[B2] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This union stretched as far west as the Faroe Islands. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    Name this personal union controlled by the Oldenburg dynasty until Christian II was overthrown and exiled to the Netherlands. Sweden withdrew from this union in a liberation war led by Gustav Vasa.
  Part 2 (ans: Dacke War [or Nils Dacke's Rebellion]):
    This 1542 revolt against Gustav Vasa by peasants from Smaland was provoked by his introduction of Lutheranism. Although the rebels offered to put Svante Sture on the throne, Sture refused to be involved.
  Part 3 (ans: landsknechte):
    Before their rebellion was crushed, Dacke's rebels defeated an army of these German mercenaries sent by Gustav Vasa. Known for their stylish slashed doublets, these mercenary pikemen were first trained on the orders of Maximilian I to match the armies of Switzerland.

[B3] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about the domestic policy of Gustav Vasa, founder of the Vasa dynasty.
  Part 1 (ans: Petri [or Persson]):
    A man with this surname, Olaus, published the first Swedish New Testament, while his brother, Laurentius, was appointed by Gustav as the first Lutheran Archbishop of Uppsala.
  Part 2 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    Gustav's experience in the Stockholm Bloodbath led him to oppose this Danish-dominated system by which Denmark, Norway, and Sweden were ruled under a single monarch.

[B4] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Danish king Christian II massacred at least 80 people in this city in a "bloodbath" in 1520 despite promising amnesty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stockholm [accept Stockholm Bloodbath]):
    Name that city, where Sten Sture and Gustavus Trolle were feuding over whether their polity should remain in a union with Denmark.
  Part 2 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    This was the name given to the union of Sweden and Denmark from 1397 to 1523, which Denmark dominated.
  Part 3 (ans: Strangnas):
    Three years after Gustav Vasa escaped the Stockholm Bloodbath, he was proclaimed king of an independent Sweden at the cathedral in which historical Swedish city near Lake Malaren?

[B5] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The component states of this alliance were each governed by councils known as Riksradet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    Identify this state which intermittently unified Norway, Denmark, and Sweden from 1397 to 1523.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret I):
    The Kalmar Union was formed by this woman, who united the kingdoms after the deaths of her husband Haakon VI and her son Olaf II. She appointed her great-nephew Eric of Pomerania as her successor.
  Part 3 (ans: Christian II (prompt on "Christian")):
    After the Englebrecht Rebellion, the Swedish gained some independence before this ruler's invasion in 1520. An ally of Gustav Trolle, he perpetrated the Stockholm Bloodbath. In karmic retaliation, Frederick I imprisoned this man for 27 years.

[B6] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Eric of Pomerania became king of this personal union when he turned 18. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    Name this personal union, under which Sweden, Denmark, and Norway were united until 1523.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret I of Denmark [prompt on "Margaret"]):
    This person summoned the three Riksradet of Sweden, Denmark, and Norway in 1397 to form the Kalmar Union and served as effective ruler of the realm after Eric was declared king.
  Part 3 (ans: monasteries):
    Gustavus Vasa, who brought about the end of the Kalmar Union, confiscated land from these religious institutions during the Swedish reformation. Most medieval manuscripts were produced in these institutions.

[B7] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: From 1397 until 1523, the countries of Scandinavia were united in this political affiliation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    Name this combined entity, which was named for a castle on the west coast of the Baltic Sea.
  Part 2 (ans: Sweden):
    The Kalmar Union finally ended in 1523 when Gustav Vasa became king of this constituent member of the Kalmar Union.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret I [or Margrete Valdemarsdatter; prompt on "Margaret" or "Margrete"]):
    The Kalmar Union was founded when this Danish queen-regnant married King Haakon VI of Norway.

[B8] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: It's not England, but this country's patron saint is an English bishop named Henry, who was killed by a yeoman while accompanying a crusading king. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Finland [or Suomen Tasavalta or Suomi]):
    Name this present-day country. Its other important clergymen include Mikael Agricola, who developed its literary language and introduced Lutheranism.
  Part 2 (ans: Kalmar Union [Kalmarunionen or Unio Calmariensis]):
    While under Swedish rule, Finland became a part of this Scandinavian "Union" that united Sweden, Norway, and Denmark under one monarch.
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV or Ivan Grozny; prompt on "Ivan" or "Ivan Vasilyevich"]):
    According to the Encyclopedia Britannica, King Jan III of Sweden made Finland a grand duchy to "irritate" this Russian czar, who earned his epithet through such actions as having his oprichniki pillage Novgorod and beating his son to death.

[B9] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This family was responsible for restoring descendants of Charles VIII to the throne of Sweden, and one member served as foreign minister to Charles XI. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: the Oxenstierna family):
    Name this prominent clan, whose members include Bengt, regent of Sweden after the reign of Charles VIII, and Axel, advisor to Gustavus Adolphus and Christina.
  Part 2 (ans: Sten Sture):
    Among the other regents after Charles VIII's reign were two different men with this name. The "Elder" of the two secured the Swedish throne for Christian I of Denmark.
  Part 3 (ans: Kalmar Union [or Kalmarunionen]):
    Christian ruled Sweden together with Denmark and Norway in this single, combined polity.

[B10] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Margaret I facilitated this union by serving as regent to her great-nephew Erik of Pomerania during his minority. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    Name this Scandinavian union which united three countries under a single monarch until the early 16th century.
  Part 2 (ans: Denmark):
    Margaret herself hailed from this country, whose King Christian X apocryphally wore a Jewish star while his country was under Nazi occupation.
  Part 3 (ans: Christian IV):
    Several decades after the fall of the Kalmar Union, this Danish king screwed things up further by getting his country embroiled in the Thirty Years' War, gradually losing power to the nobility. He once lent his name to the Norwegian city that is now Oslo.

[B11] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: After the proclamation of the Vasa Dynasty in Sweden, this country's Privy Council unilaterally reduced Norway to the status of province. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kingdom Denmark-Norway [or Kongeriget Danmark-Norge]):
    Name this country that contains the island of Zealand. It got much of its revenue by using its military fortress of Elsinore. It frequently tried to incorporate Schleswig and Holstein in the southern Jutland Peninsula.
  Part 2 (ans: Kalmar Union [or Kalmarunionen]):
    Margaret I of Denmark made Copenhagen the capital of this informal Scandinavian polity made by the personal union under Erik of Pomerania.
  Part 3 (ans: Sound Dues [or variant such as Dues for the use of the Sound; or Sound Tolls; or Tolls on the use of the Sound, and variants; or Oresundstolden; or Oresundstullen]):
    This successful Danish revenue source was finally abolished in 1857. It involved extracting tolls from ships moving between the Baltic and North seas and using land-based cannon to destroy ships that refused to pay.

[B12] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This was established by Queen Margaret of Denmark. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kalmar Union):
    Name this state consisting of Denmark, Sweden, and Norway that existed until the revolt of Gustavus Vasa.
  Part 2 (ans: Eric of Pomerania):
    This monarch, who instiuted the Sound Dues, ruled the Kalmar Union after Margaret's death.
  Part 3 (ans: Gustavus Trolle):
    The Kalmar Union broke up after the Stockholm Bloodbath, which was orchestrated by King Christian II of Denmark and this Archbishop. Sweden became Protestant after the Pope refused to remove this man, who is considered one of the greatest traitors in Swedish history.
