=== STOCK CLUES: Kapustin ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's Opus 41 Variations gives the swing treatment to The Rite of Spring's opening bassoon theme. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai Kapustin):
    Name this Soviet composer with a 21st-century cult following whose 20 piano sonatas infuse classical forms with written-out jazz. A driving Toccatina in E minor is the third of his Eight Concert Etudes, Opus 40.
  Part 2 (ans: Rhapsody in Blue):
    This crossover "jazz concerto," orchestrated by Grofe, was a hit when Paul Whiteman's band premiered it at the Aeolian Hall concert "An Experiment in Modern Music" with the composer improvising at the piano.
  Part 3 (ans: Roland Dyens ("ro-LAWN dee-YAWNCE") (Skai or "artificial hide" refers to him not being Argentinian to write a bona fide tango.)):
    This Frenchman arranged Django's Nuages, Piaf's pop, and Gillespie's A Night in Tunisia, where he was born, for classical guitar. He composed Tango en Skai ("on sky") and Hommage a Villa-Lobos, dedicated Libra Sonatina to his heart surgeon, and started his recitals with improvisations.

[B2] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: This equation is derived from the Born-Lande equation by making a series of dubious approximations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kapustinskii equation):
    This equations uses the structure of NaCl to approximate the Madelung constant per number of formula units.
  Part 2 (ans: Lattice Enthalpy (accept Lattice Energy)):
    Like the Born-Lande equation, the Kapustinskii equation is used to work out this quantity, defined as the energy of formation of a crystal from infinitely-separated ions.
  Part 3 (ans: Radius (accept Distance to closest ion or other clear knowledge equivalents)):
    Lattice enthalpy is inversely proportional to this quantity, which the Kapustinskii uses the thermochemical form of to try to correct for covalency.
