=== STOCK CLUES: Corot ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 24 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Camille Corot [or Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot]
  - Under the tutelage of Victor Bertin (bare-TAN), this artist made many small sketches called pochades (po-SHODS) that he rarely developed into full canvases.
  - This artist painted a mother and her girls picking shrubbery off a thin tree, next to a much larger tree casting a huge shadow on a lake, in his canvas Souvenir de Mortefontaine.
  - He painted many views of the pond overlooking the property he inherited at Ville-d'Avray.
  - This artist painted an on-the-spot depiction of the Castel Sant'Angelo and St.
  - Peter's cupola in his canvas View of Rome, produced on an 1825 trip to Italy, which also informed his painting of a ruined Roman arch bridge at Narni.
  - For 10 points, name this oft-forged French landscape artist whose en plein air painting inspired the Impressionists. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Camille Corot [or Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot]
  - Rene Huyghe demonstrated that over 2,100 works attributed to this painter in the Jousseaume collection were forgeries, and Huyghe also quipped that this artist "painted 3,000 canvases, 10,000 of which have been sold in America." Forgers often took advantage of the gaps in the catalogue raissone of his works by Alfred Robaut and Etienne Moreau-Nelaton.
  - His paintings of young women reading include one in which the subject has been "interrupted" from reading and holds the book in her lap. [PWR]
  - This artist re-used a study of oak trees at (*) Bas-Breau for his painting Hagar in the Wilderness. [PWR]
  - In his mature period he began painting "souvenir" landscapes drawn from memory of places like Castel Gandolfo and Mortefontaine.
  - During one of his trips to Italy, this artist painted a landscape with the broken remnants of the Ponte di Augusto.
  - For 10 points, name this French Realist of the Barbizon school, who painted The Bridge at Narni. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot
  - This painter showed nude female figures bathing in a stream who shield their breasts in fright, while the title blond goddess points towards a man in blue in the upper-left corner, who begins to sprout antlers, in his version of Diana and Actaeon. [PWR]
  - In one painting by him, two children stand to the left of a woman in pink who is reaching up into a tree that leans to the left on the shores of a pond. [PWR]
  - In a painting by him set in a desert landscape, a child in white lies prone on a (*) rock next to a kneeling woman in black, who clutches her head in despair, while an angel can be spotted flying towards them in the distance. [PWR]
  - His most famous landscape shows a river valley with the ruins of a Roman arch bridge in the title Umbrian city.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of Hagar in the Wilderness, Souvenir de Mortefontaine and The Bridge at Narni, the leading landscape painter of the Barbizon school. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot
  - One painting by this artist depicts a child riding a panther as he looks at a reclining nude.
  - That work accompanies a similar Bacchante by the Sea.
  - Thick, diagonal lines characterize his cliche-verres like Les Arbres dans la Montagne.
  - A melancholy woman sits next to an easel and holds the title instrument in his Young Woman with a Mandolin.
  - More characteristically, he depicted three girls stripping fruit from a tree in Recollection of Mortefontaine, and he painted some spindly, shimmering trees before a silver lakefront in his depiction of the commune at Ville d'Avray.
  - He's best remembered today for his plein air sketches prepared for studio landscapes like Homer and the Shepherds; one such sketch features large slabs of color, and like the similar Aqueducts in the Roman Compagna, uses a limited palette to depict a decayed expanse.
  - For 10 points, identify this French artist of the Barbizon School who painted some broken piers in his Bridge at Narni. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Art critic Kenneth Clark called the preliminary sketch of this painting "as free as the most vigorous Constable" though he later decried the final painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bridge at Narni [or Le pont de Narni or View at Narni] (The painting is by Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot.)):
    Name this painting whose view was previously painted by the artist's teacher, Achille Etna Michallon ("ah-SHEEL ET-na mee-sha-LON"). This painting depicts a destroyed structure the artist witnessed on an 1825 trip.
  Part 2 (ans: J. M. W. Turner [accept Joseph Mallord William Turner]):
    The title bridge at Narni, Ponte d'Augusto, was also sketched years earlier by this artist of The Slave Ship.
  Part 3 (ans: Claude Lorrain [or Claude Lorrain; accept Le Lorrain or Claude Gellee]):
    This artist depicted multiple Roman bridges in paintings such as Rome and the Ponte Molle and The Battle of the Milvian Bridge. J. M. W. Turner was so inspired by this artist's painting The Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba that he requested one of his paintings to be hung next to it.

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Science
     Leadin: Roy Kerr argued that these objects do not necessarily contain certain types of singularities in a possibly flawed 2023 arxiv ("archive") preprint. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: black holes [accept Kerr black holes, accept Schwartzchild black holes]):
    Kerr names a solution to the Einstein field equations describing a neutral, rotating one of these objects, which are described by the Schwarzschild metric when stationary.
  Part 2 (ans: ergosphere):
    Kerr black holes can spin down via the Penrose process when matter enters this region. In this region, frame-dragging causes the time component of the metric to become positive.
  Part 3 (ans: corotating [or moving in the azimuthal direction; or descriptions of it orbiting in the same direction as the black hole's spin; or descriptions of its angular momentum or angular velocity being aligned with or pointing in the same direction as that of the black hole; prompt on descriptions of the particle moving or accelerating or not appearing stationary to an outside observer]):
    Due to extreme frame-dragging, a particle's trajectory inside the ergosphere must have this property when viewed by an outside observer. This property can lead to particles with "negative energy," thus driving the Penrose process.

[B3] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a road running up a hill in Montmartre in his The Galette Windmill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Camille Corot [or Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot]):
    Name this man who was fond of painting the trees of Ville-d'Avray. During a trip to Italy, he painted a view of the remnants of the Ponte d'Augusto that now hangs in the Louvre.
  Part 2 (ans: Camille Pissarro [or Jacob Abraham Camille Pissarro]):
    This St. Thomas-born student of Corot was the only person to show works in all eight Impressionist exhibitions.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary Cassatt [or Mary Stevenson Cassatt]):
    Corot also taught Berthe Morisot, who Gustave Geffroy included with Marie Bracquemond and this other woman in his list of the three grandes dames of Impressionism. This woman's The Bath is one of her many depictions of mothers and children.

[B4] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist showed a woman with a large cello playing for two others in the foreground of his 1857 painting Le concert champetre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Camille Corot):
    Name French landscape painter, known for his several depictions of his home commune of Ville d'Avray.
  Part 2 (ans: bridge):
    Corot depicted one of these structures over a river at Narni in an 1826 painting. Gustave Caillebotte depicted a dog walking toward a couple dressed in black in a painting titled for one of these structures "of Europe."
  Part 3 (ans: Macbeth):
    Corot showed a group of women standing on a shore pointing at two men on horseback in a depiction of a scene from this play. A John Singer Sargent painting depicts Ellen Terry as a character from this play.

[B5] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A couple shepherds and umbrella pine trees were added to a painting showing the lone surviving arch of the Ponte d'Augusto in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Narni):
    A "view at" what Umbrian city was painted by the teacher of Berthe Morisot and Camille Pissarro?
  Part 2 (ans: [Jean-Baptiste-]Camille Corot):
    This French artist painted the plein air preparatory sketch The Bridge at Narni and the later landscape View at Narni.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Francois Millet):
    This fellow member of the Barbizon School with Corot showed a peasant man striding through a freshly tilled field in The Sower, and three peasant women doubled over as they pick up leftover bits of wheat in The Gleaners.

[B6] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter's dreamy scenes inspired by fantastical literature included Siegfried and the Rhine Maidens and Forest of Arden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albert Pinkham Ryder):
    Name this 19th-century American artist who painted a snake slithering on the outskirts of a dusty racetrack in Death on a Pale Horse.
  Part 2 (ans: Jonah):
    In this Ryder painting, a blindingly bright God the Father holds a sphere while looking down at the horrendous waves pummeling a boat full of people as a monster approaches.
  Part 3 (ans: Camille Corot):
    Ryder closely studied the work of this French painter of many Souvenirs and Hagar in the Wilderness, who also greatly developed landscape painting with his depictions of his residence at Ville d'Avray.

[B7] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The left and right sides of this painting are dominated by two large hills, the right of which is bathed in the darkness of its own shadow. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bridge at Narni):
    Name this painting in which the ruins of the title structure, including an arch to the right and a support to the left, are all that remains of it.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot):
    The Bridge at Narni was painted by this leader of the Barbizon School who caused controversy with his depiction of Hagar in the Wilderness and showed a large, leafless tree in his Ville d'Avray.
  Part 3 (ans: landscapes):
    Corot was a fan of this type of painting that showcases natural beauty, often featuring rivers, trees, and hills. Claude Lorrain and Nicolas Poussin also did paintings in this genre.

[B8] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One member of this artistic movement, Charles-Francois Daubigny, supposedly added more ducks to the paintings that he was happiest with. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Barbizon school):
    Identify this Constable-influenced group of French painters, led by Theodore Rousseau and Jean-Francois Millet, who gathered at a village near Fontainebleau Forest.
  Part 2 (ans: (Jean-Baptiste-) Camille Corot):
    Before taking to painting dozens of good but vaguely stalkerish candid portraits of lone females, this major Barbizon painter became known for works like Recollection of Mortefontaine, La Concert Champetre, and the famous landscape The Bridge at Narni.
  Part 3 (ans: The Man with the Hoe [or L'homme a la houe]):
    This Millet painting of a figure leaning over a farming implement inspired a namesake Edwin Markham poem that describes its central figure as being "bowed by the weight of centuries."
