=== STOCK CLUES: Parra ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Chile [or Republic of Chile or Republica de Chile] (The first line is from Roberto Bolano's essay "Eight Seconds with Nicanor Parra.")
  - A writer from this country said that he's sure another author's poetry "will endure" in an essay titled "Eight Seconds with [an author from this country]." That author from this country wrote "The Individual's Soliloquy," and often declared "I take back everything I've said." The speaker of a poem by an author from this country describes "the tenderness, light as water and as flour. / And the word scarcely begun on the lips." An author from this country wrote "It so happens I am sick of being a man" in "Walking Around." Nicanor Parra is from this country, as is an author who wrote in a poem that "In you everything sank!" and declared "It is the hour of departure." For 10 points, name this home country of the author of "The Song of Despair," Pablo Neruda. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Spanish [accept espanol] (The other authors are Nicanor Parra and Cesar Vallejo.)
  - This language was used to write the poem "Manifesto," which declares "The poets have come down from Olympus" and is by the author of Emergency Poems. [PWR]
  - A poet who wrote in this language spent most of his life exiled in Paris after being framed for arson and wrote, "There are blows in life so powerful... [PWR]
  - I don't know!" in "The Black Heralds." A poem in this language repeats contradictions, such as "I no longer love her... but maybe I love her" and "I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too." "A (*) Lamp on Earth" titles the first section of a poetry collection in this language, one of whose other poems declares, "Arise to birth with me, my brother!" This is the language of the poem "Tonight I can write the saddest lines," which appears with a "Song of Despair." For 10 points, name this language used to write Canto General by Pablo Neruda. [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Nicanor Parra (or Nicanor Parra Sandoval)
  - This author writes "A new era begins now, with the burning of the dirigible R101 as it crashes to earth" at the opening of his poem "News Bulletin 1930." The only thing Robert Bolano could say for certain about his work is "it will endure" in Bolano's essay entitled "Eight Seconds with [this man]." Phrases like "Bargain crucifix, for sale" or "U.S.A., where liberty is a statue" appear with hundreds of postcards in his series of visual poems, the Artifacts.
  - The speaker of one of his poems translated by Ferlinghetti and Ginsberg describes how he advanced from fire to cities and highways, but concludes he should go back "to that rock that was home, and start scratching all over again." That poem "The Soliloquy of the Individual" appears in this man's 1954 collection Poems and Antipoems, and he often calls himself an "anti-poet." FTP, name this writer from Chile who's known for hating Pablo Neruda. [PWR]
  - (*) [PWR]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The influence of traditional Andean music on this genre can be heard in the parts for charango, quena, and zampona on the protest albums Basta and X Vietnam by the band Quilapayun. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: nueva cancion [accept nueva cancion Chilena; prompt on new song]):
    Give the two-word Spanish term for this genre of socially-engaged folk music emerging out of Latin America in the 1960s and 1970s. Victor Jara played in this style before being murdered by the Pinochet regime.
  Part 2 (ans: Violeta Parra [or Violeta del Carmen Parra Sandoval]):
    A leading light of the nueva cancion Chilena was this beloved singer-songwriter who played the cuatro. This folklorist wrote the internationally popular songs "Volver a los Diecisiete" and "Gracias a la vida."
  Part 3 (ans: Joan Baez [or Joan Chandos Baez]):
    Parra's "Gracias a la vida" was popularized in the US by this Mexican-American folk singer, whose hit "Diamonds & Rust" drew from her relationship with Bob Dylan.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Faride Zeran's ("say-RAHNʼs") book on a "war" between two poets of this first name recounts vitriolic insults hurled in poems like "Dantean Tercets" and "Here I Am." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pablo [accept Pablo de Rokha or Pablo Neruda; prompt on Carlos Ignacio Diaz Loyola or Ricardo Eliecer Neftali Reyes Basoalto by asking "what first name did they write under?"]):
    Give this first name of two of a country's "four great" poets. One dedicated "Old Man's Song" to his wife, Winett de Rokha, while the other wrote Canto General("hay-nay-RAHL").
  Part 2 (ans: Nicanor Parra [or Nicanor Segundo Parra Sandoval] (Parra was called the "poet of the sneeze" by Thomas Merton.)):
    In a line admired by Roberto Bolano, this "poet of the sneeze" jokingly listed Alonso de Ercilla and Ruben Dario as Chile's four greats. He opposed de Rokha and Neruda's lyricism by writing "anti-poetry."
  Part 3 (ans: "little god" [accept "the poet is a little god" or "el Poeta es un pequeno Dios"]):
    In his Nobel lecture, Neruda rejected a creationist slogan of rival great poet Vicente Huidobro ("wee-DOH-broh") that equates "the poet" with this two-word phrase, stating, "No, the poet is not a [this figure]. He is not picked out by a mystical destiny."

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: The Agia Triada ("ah-YAH tree-AH-thuh") and Agios Dionysios ("AH-yohss thee-oh-NEE-see-ohss") Monasteries, which date back to the early Byzantine Empire, are near this mountain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mount Olympus [or Olympos]):
    Name this mythologically important mountain near the Aegean Sea, whose National Park was the first in Greece.
  Part 2 (ans: Larissa):
    Mount Olympus is on the border between Macedonia and Thessaly, the latter of which is governed from this city. This city is connected by road to the port city of Volos.
  Part 3 (ans: chaparral):
    The dry foothills of Olympus, called Xirokampi ("ksee-roh-KAHM-bee"), belong to this biome, a shrubland characterized by frequent wildfires and commonly found in California.

[B4] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This plant names a movement that James R. Skillen links to the New Right in This Land is My Land and a grouse species whose protection was opposed by Wyoming and Colorado oil interests. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sagebrush [accept Riders of the Purple Sage; accept Sagebrush Rebellion; accept greater sage-grouse; accept Great Basin sagebrush or big sagebrush or Artemisia tridentata; prompt on Artemisia]):
    Identify this plant that names a "rebellion" against the Bureau of Land Management by politicians like Jim Santini of Nevada and Orrin Hatch of Utah. Zane Grey mythologized cowboys in a 1912 novel named for this shrub.
  Part 2 (ans: rangelands [accept "Home on the Range"; prompt on grazing land; prompt on arid lands; prompt on steppe or grasslands or prairies or shrubland or chaparral; reject "pasture"]):
    In the 1970s, the Sagebrush Rebellion was ignited by BLM orders to reduce herd sizes on these lands to stay within their carrying capacity. A folk song evokes "Home on [this place]," "where the deer and the antelope play."
  Part 3 (ans: Shoshone [accept Western Shoshone; accept Te-Moak; accept Duckwater Shoshone or Tsaiduka] (The Nevada Test Site is located on their traditional lands.)):
    Two sisters of this ethnicity cited the 1863 Treaty of Ruby Valley to defend their grazing rights on Newe Sogobia rangelands in the 1985 case US v. Dann. Hundreds of nuclear tests took place on their lands in Nye County.

[B5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: While the California High-Speed Rail is projected to create some environmental benefits, one potential drawback is the degradation of the habitat of this species. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: monarch butterflies [or Danaus plexippus plexippus; prompt on Danaus]):
    Name these orange-and-black insects famous for a seasonal migration to Mexico.
  Part 2 (ans: wildlife corridors [or habitat corridors or dispersal corridors or green corridors or biological corridors or migration corridors]):
    The project may also disrupt many of these areas, which allow animals like mountain lions to move between areas, further fragmenting populations and decreasing gene flow.
  Part 3 (ans: chaparral):
    Another concern is that the railway will disrupt acres of this biome, which, in North America, is unique to California. This shrubland biome features a Mediterranean climate and plants adapted to surviving wildfires.

[B6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One author from this country wrote "anti-sonnets," or poems with the verse structure of sonnets but without their rhyme scheme, as well as the poem "You Want Me White." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Argentina [The author is Jorge Luis Borges.]):
    Name this home country of Alfonsina Storni. Another author from this country had a bad inspirational poem, "Instants," wrongly attributed to him, causing critics to draw ironic comparisons to his short story about an "Author of the Quixote."
  Part 2 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    This Chilean theoretical physicist is better known for writing many "anti-poems," often saying "I take back everything I said!" after giving recitations.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriela Mistral [or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga]):
    This other Chilean poet wrote "I will lower you to the humble and sunny ground" to her lover in "Sonnets of Death."

[B7] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Federico Garcia Lorca drew a series of images to accompany this poem, one of which depicts a series of disembodied lips radiating out from a single eye. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Walking Around" [by Pablo Neruda"]):
    Name this poem whose speaker encounters "hideous intestines / hanging over the doors of houses that I hate" and clotheslines containing "underwear, towels and shirts from which slow / dirty tears are falling."
  Part 2 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    This poet satirized "Walking Around" in his poem "Lyric Poet Pithecantropos Erectus," which appears in his collection Artefactos. In an academic speech delivered in front of Neruda, this Chilean author noted that giving academic speeches was contradictory to his status as an "anti-poet."
  Part 3 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Parra's occasionally lukewarm attitude toward Neruda shows up in a short poem of his that claims "Chile's four great poets / are three: / Alonso de Ercilla" and this notably Nicaraguan member of the modernismo movement who wrote "To Roosevelt."

[B8] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about poets featured in Alejandro Jodorowsky's autobiographical film Endless Poetry.
  Part 1 (ans: Adonis [or Adunis, or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]):
    This poet and pal of Jodorowsky doesn't actually feature in the narrative of the film, but appears as an actor playing the role of filmmaker Andres Racz. This Syrian poet is considered a strong Nobel prize contender.
  Part 2 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    Jodorowsky recounts meeting his girlfriend Stella through this Chilean poet, her former lover. This author of "The Viper" and Antipoems is also considered a perennial Nobel contender; as of 2017 he was still eligible for the prize, having reached the age of 103.
  Part 3 (ans: Paris):
    After befriending the author of the "Surrealist Manifesto," Andre Breton, young Alejandro decides to leave Chile and join the surrealists in this city. This city was also home to Paul Eluard and Antonin Artaud.

[B9] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about Chilean poets:
  Part 1 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    This author and mathematician created the style of anti-poetry, an art movement that attempts to break away from the normal conventions of traditional poetry, of which this poet's artefactos are short examples. Poems and Antipoems and Versos de salon are notable collections of antipoems by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: Pablo Neruda [or Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]):
    Parra created anti-poetry partly in response to what he perceived was the conventional style of this other poet, who anonymously published Los versos del capitan and titled his memories Confieso que he vivido. One of this Nobel laureate's collections contains a poem beginning "I like for you to be still: it is as though you were absent, / and you hear me from far away and my voice does not touch you."
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriela Mistral):
    This poet claimed that "there is no godless art" and "beauty is virginal and is not to be found at carnival or fair" in Decalogue of the Artist. In addition to writing Tala, this poet's collection Desolacion was written after the suicide of her fiance Romelio Ureta.

[B10] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem is addressed to a woman referred to as "lost discoverer" who "housed the infinite tenderness" of the speaker "like a jar." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Song of Despair" [or La cancion desesperada]):
    Name this Spanish poem about a "deserted one" who repeats the refrain "in you everything sank!" while grieving his loss at the "hour of departure."
  Part 2 (ans: Pablo Neruda [or Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto]):
    This Chilean poet wrote about lost love in the poem "If You Forget Me." He wrote the collection Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
  Part 3 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    Neruda wasn't the only heartbroken Chilean poet. This poet leaves with a "forced and sad smile" after urging "generous reader, burn this book" in one of his many antipoems, "I Take Back Everything I've Said."

[B11] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After performing readings of his poetry, this poet would say "I retract everything I just said." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    Name this Chilean poet of Poems and Antipoems and After Dinner Declarations.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    This Chilean wrote the poetry collection The Romantic Dogs, which includes the poem "Godzilla in Mexico." He is better known for his novels, including The Savage Detectives and 2666.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo Neruda):
    This greatest of Chilean poets, who always wrote in green ink, wrote "I like when you are silent because it is as if you are absent" in one poem from Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
