=== STOCK CLUES: Frank Gehry ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 48 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry; or Frank Owen Goldberg]
  - This architect designed the scenery for a 1968 Billy Al Bengston exhibition at LACMA.
  - This architect fixed a full-scale F-104 jet fighter to the entrance of the California Aerospace Museum.
  - This architect's use of a fish motif appears in his design of a restaurant in Kobe.
  - This architect's "open-ended" approach can be seen in the use of corrugated steel and mesh fencing of his Santa Monica residence.
  - A building designed by this architect described as a "metaphoric city" has an atrium he nicknamed "the flower." This architect associated with Deconstructivism used concave wave-like exteriors for a Los Angeles concert hall.
  - For 10 points, name this Canadian-American architect of the Walt Disney Concert Hall and Guggenheim Bilbao. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry
  - For the renovation of an art gallery, this architect designed a spiral staircase that protrudes outside the building and a 200-meter canopy built with glass and laminated wood. [PWR]
  - This architect created sections of curved white plaster for the Vitra Design Museum and blended brick with steel for the Weisman Art Museum in Minneapolis. [PWR]
  - A heavily criticized building designed by this architect features red, black and white (*) sections inspired by a smashed guitar that leave room for a monorail to pass. [PWR]
  - A building by this architect features seemingly random curved walls made of titanium and glass.
  - For 10 points, name this Canadian-American architect of the Museum of Pop Culture in Seattle and the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 ACF Fall (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry or Frank Owen Goldberg]
  - This architect collaborated with Claes Oldenburg to design the Chiat/Day Building, which features giant binoculars at its entrance.
  - This architect added titled glass cubes to a home in Santa Monica.
  - This designer of the Pritzker Pavilion was commissioned to create an extension of the Art Gallery of Ontario in his home city.
  - To minimize reflection, this architect made modifications to the Founders Room of an LA concert hall dedicated to Walt Disney.
  - This architect evoked a city's historic port on the Nervon river with a warped titanium-clad museum.
  - For 10 points, name this deconstructivist architect of the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry
  - The first five floors of a building designed by this man that was the tallest residential building in the Western hemisphere on completion are clad in tan brick and are used as a school.
  - Fish are a common theme in this man's works, the most famous examples of which are his Glass Standing Fish sculpture in the Walker Art Centre and El Peix [pesch] outside the Port Olimpic in Barcelona.
  - This man designed two buildings to imply the movement of feet that are named after Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers: those buildings are collectively known as the Dancing House in Prague.
  - Another art gallery designed by this man sits on the Nervion River and is surrounded by metallic sheets.
  - For 10 points, name this Canadian architect who designed the Guggenheim in Bilbao. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry or Frank Owen Goldberg]
  - Daniel Buren added colorful panels to one of this artist's buildings to create a giant kaleidoscope known as the Observatory of Light. [PWR]
  - The Cowles Conservatory in the Walker Art Center contains this artist's glass sculpture Giant Standing Fish. [PWR]
  - This artist, who designed the Fondation Louis Vuitton, used a "deconstructivst" approach to a building that he designed with Vlado Milunic. [PWR]
  - The Science Fiction Museum and Hall of Fame is attached to a building that (*) Microsoft founder Paul Allen commissioned from this man. [PWR]
  - In Prague, this artist designed a building whose two distinct towers evoke the movement of feet, called the Dancing House.
  - For 10 points, name this modern architect who designed the Experience Music Project in Seattle and the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles. [GIVE]

[T6] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry; or Frank Owen Goldberg]
  - A renovation project led by this architect added a fir-paneled irregular-spiral accessibility ramp in the Walker Court and a new wing with a blue exterior featuring two snakelike cantilevered staircases.
  - A still-unbuilt design by this architect includes an almost 500-foot-long stainless steel "tapestry" depicting images of the Midwest as well as two 80-foot-tall posts suggesting the ruins of a temple.
  - A residential tower designed by this man is located at 8 Spruce Street in Manhattan.
  - He led the 2008 redesign of the Art Gallery of Ontario and designed the planned Dwight D.
  - Eisenhower memorial.
  - Coosje van Bruggen and Claes Oldenburg designed the distinctive parking garage entrance of this man's "Binoculars Building." Another of his projects has a central atrium nicknamed "the flower" and is located on the Nervion River; that museum is clad in his characteristic undulating titanium sheets.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of the Guggenheim Bilbao. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry
  - This architect collaborated with Claes Oldenberg to design the Binoculars Building.
  - Another structure designed by this architect now houses the Grant Park Orchestra.
  - A monorail runs through a building that this architect designed for Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen.
  - This architect designed the Experience Music Project in Seattle and the Pritzker Pavilion in Chicago.
  - One of his buildings sits along the Nervion River and, like a live music venue he designed in Los Angeles, is surrounded by curved metallic sheets.
  - For 10 points, name this Canadian-American architect who designed the Guggenheim Bilbao and the Walt Disney Concert Hall. [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Gehry
  - This architect incorporated a series of gallery pods into his design for the campus of the Ohr-O'Keefe Museum of Art, which was overhauled after it was damaged by Hurricane Katrina.
  - In 1992, this architect released a series of bentwood furniture, each piece of which was named after a different term from hockey.
  - This man was sued following the buildup of moisture and water leakage in his Stata Center at MIT.
  - He designed a work that used large criss-crossing pipes covered in speakers as a trellis.
  - That work was classified as a work of art to prevent its removal from Grant Park.
  - Jeff Koons' Puppy sits outside of a building created by this man, which is noted for its use of titanium sheets designed to resemble fish scales.
  - For 10 points, name this architect responsible for designing the Pritzker Pavilion and the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A twisted sculpture of metal situated at the top of this building is nicknamed Medusa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dancing House [or Tancici dum]):
    Name this building in Prague, often nicknamed for Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers due to its slant.
  Part 2 (ans: Vlado Milunic("MILL-oo-nich") [or Vladimir Milunic]):
    This Czech architect is one of two architects who collaborated on designing the Dancing House. This architect was one of five Czech architects commissioned to design Shanghai's "Czech Quarter", as well as designing several neighbourhoods in the Petriny district of Prague.
  Part 3 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry; accept Frank Goldberg]):
    After Jean Nouvel turned down the job, this Canadian-American architect collaborated with Milunic in designing The Dancing House. This architect also designed Bilbao's Guggenheim Museum and Seattle's Pop Culture Museum.

[B2] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The cover of Pink Floyd's album Animals depicts an Art Deco one of these facilities constructed in the "brick-cathedral" style. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: power stations [or power plants; accept Bankside Power Station or Battersea Power Station]):
    Name these industrial facilities, one of which was designed by J. Theo Halliday and Giles Gilbert Scott. In 1995, Herzog & de Meuron won a contest to redevelop one of these facilities in Bankside.
  Part 2 (ans: Tate Modern [prompt on Tate alone]):
    Herzog & de Meuron converted the Bankside Power Station into this British art museum, where installations such as Ai Weiwei's Sunflower Seeds were displayed in its Turbine Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry]):
    Along with Norman Foster, this architect designed apartment buildings for the 2012 redevelopment of the Battersea Power Station. This Canadian architect designed the Walt Disney Concert Hall.

[B3] 2023 Purdue IM Housewrite (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The designer of this building wanted it to be made of stone so it could glow warmly in the night, but the commissioners wanted it to be made of metal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walt Disney Concert Hall):
    Name this building, which had to be resurfaced in 2005 because of the reflection of light it caused on neighboring buildings. This building is the home of the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry; accept Frank Owen Goldberg]):
    The commissioners of the Walt Disney Concert Hall wouldn't let this architect make it out of stone after seeing his other works, including the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain.
  Part 3 (ans: dance [or dancing; accept Dancing House]):
    Gehry helped design an unusually-shaped building named after this action. He wanted to name the house after Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, who performed "ballroom" and "tap" variants of this activity in movies.

[B4] 2023 Canadian Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One building by this architect is fronted by a Jeff Koons sculpture of a puppy covered in flowers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frank Gehry):
    Name this Canadian architect of the Museum of Pop Culture in Seattle and the "Dancing House" in Prague. This architect is known for his use of curvaceous metal facades.
  Part 2 (ans: concert halls/venues [accept Walt Disney Concert Hall]):
    Gehry utilised a similar metallic layout to design this kind of building in Los Angeles named after Walt Disney. A different kind of this building named after David Geffen houses the New York Philharmonic.
  Part 3 (ans: Abu Dhabi [accept Guggenheim Abu Dhabi or Louvre Abu Dhabi]):
    Frank Gehry will design a future Guggenheim museum that will reside in this city. Jean Nouvel took inspiration from palm trees to design the roof of another art gallery in this city, which was expected to house the world's most expensive painting.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a precursor to Google Street View, an artist took thousands of photographs of this street by mounting a motorized camera on his pickup truck. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sunset Boulevard [prompt on partial answers; prompt on Sunset Strip by asking "what larger street is it a part of?"]):
    Name this street whose namesake "strip" was photographed extensively by Ed Ruscha ("roo-SHAY"). This street contains the Beverly Hills Hotel and was a hotspot of the Googie architecture movement.
  Part 2 (ans: coffee shops [prompt on diners or restaurants or cafes]):
    Douglas Haskell coined the name of the Googie movement after seeing one of these buildings on Sunset Boulevard designed by John Lautner. Eldon Davis is known for designing buildings of this type such as Pann's.
  Part 3 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry or Frank Owen Goldberg]):
    This architect designed a controversial glass complex at 8150 Sunset Boulevard that is currently under construction. This architect earlier designed the Walt Disney Concert Hall for the Los Angeles Philharmonic.

[B6] 2021 Spring Novice (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Daniel Libeskind designed the controversial "crystal" expansion for a museum located in this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Canada):
    Name this country, in which iconic buildings like the Moshe Safdie-designed Habitat 67 and Buckminster Fuller's Biosphere were constructed for the 1967 World Expo.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry):
    This Canadian-born architect designed the Art Gallery of Ontario, as well as the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao and the Stata Center at MIT.
  Part 3 (ans: Disney [accept Walt Disney Concert Hall; accept Disney World]):
    Gehry also designed a Los Angeles concert hall named for the founder of this company. This company's EPCOT theme park contains Spaceship Earth, a geodesic dome inspired by Buckminster Fuller.

[B7] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Banksy replaced the head of a Winged Victory of Samothrace-like statue with one of these objects in a 2006 work titled [this object] "Angel." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cameras [accept security cameras or CCTV cameras; accept One Nation Under CCTV or CCTV Angel]):
    Name these objects. Westminster Council destroyed a Banksy work titled "One Nation Under [these objects],"while in another work Banksy painted the words "what are you looking at?" on a wall opposite one of these objects.
  Part 2 (ans: graffiti [prompt on street art]):
    Although they do many types of street art installations, Banksy is best-known for this street art form also created by Jean-Michel Basquiat ("BAH-skee-aht").
  Part 3 (ans: Spain [or Espana; or Kingdom of Spain or Reino de Espana] (The museum is the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, designed by Frank Gehry.)):
    The artist SpY, often described as this country's Banksy, attached 150 fake CCTV cameras to a wall in 2014. Jeff Koons's topiary sculpture Puppy sits outside a museum in this country whose exterior is clad in titanium sheets.

[B8] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: When her husband was awarded the 1991 Pritzker Prize, this architect did not attend the award ceremony in protest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Denise Scott Brown [prompt on Brown]):
    Name this architect who collaborated with her husband on projects like the Sainsbury Wing. She discussed sexism in architecture in her essay "Room at the Top?"
  Part 2 (ans: Seattle (The second museum is Frank Gehry's Museum of Pop Culture.)):
    Scott Brown collaborated with her husband, Robert Venturi, on an art museum in this city. A spiral-shaped sculpture made of hundreds of guitars is a focal point of a Frank Gehry-designed museum in this city.
  Part 3 (ans: Las Vegas [accept Paradise]):
    Scott Brown compared a "duck" with a "decorated shed" in a book co-authored with Venturi and Steven Izenour titled Learning from [this city], whose Strip includes casinos like Bellagio.

[B9] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2017, Rome mayor Virginia Raggi prevented three triangular towers designed by this architect from being included in the park next to football club AS ("ah-ess") Roma's planned new stadium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Libeskind):
    Name this Polish-American architect whose Jewish Museum in Berlin has several empty "voids" lacking air conditioning, one of which contains thousands of iron cutouts resembling human faces.
  Part 2 (ans: One World Trade Center [or One WTC; or Freedom Tower; prompt on World Trade Center or WTC]):
    David Childs of Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill discarded much of Libeskind's preliminary design for this New York skyscraper built as a spiritual replacement to the Twin Towers destroyed on 9/11.
  Part 3 (ans: Canada (The architect of the Dancing House is Frank Gehry, and Habitat 67 was for Montreal's Expo.)):
    Libeskind's "Crystal" was a controversial addition to a museum in this country. Moshe Safdie ("mo-SHEH SAHF-dee") built a modular "Habitat" for a World's Fair in this country, the home country of the architect of the Dancing House.

[B10] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architectural movement was properly defined by a 1988 exhibition at the MoMA organized by Mark Wigley and Philip Johnson and included the work of Bernard Tschimi ("CHEE-mee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: deconstructivism [accept word forms]):
    Name this architectural movement that includes Gunter Behnisch's ("BAY-nish's") design for the Hysolar Institute and Peter Eisenman's Wexner Center, which includes several angled and fragmented forms and an exposed white metal grid.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry]):
    The fragmented and undulating metal exteriors of many buildings designed by this American architect incorporate deconstructivism, such as his designs for the Walt Disney Concert Hall and Guggenheim Bilbao.
  Part 3 (ans: Coop Himmelb (l)au [or Coop Himmelbau]):
    This experimental firm's projects in Vienna include the Falkestrasse ("FAL-kuh-sh'TRAH-suh"), a Deconstructionist extension to a traditional Viennese office space, and the conversion of four enormous gas storage tanks into apartment buildings.

[B11] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist recently drew the ire of critics with his Bouquet of Tulips, a giant metal sculpture made in tribute to the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jeff Koons):
    Name this contemporary American artist best known for his giant polished-metal sculptures of balloon animals.
  Part 2 (ans: Bilbao [or Bilbo; accept Guggenheim Bilbao]):
    Koons's sculpture Puppy, a giant topiary dog, stands outside a museum in this city. This European city's Guggenheim museum is also home to Maman ("ma-MAWN"), a massive sculpture of a spider by Louise Bourgeois ("boor-jwah").
  Part 3 (ans: Frank Gehry):
    The Guggenheim Bilbao was designed by this contemporary architect, who used similar sheets of curved metal for the facade of the Walt Disney Concert Hall.

[B12] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about parametricism, an architecture style made possible by computer software, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Dame Zaha Mohammad Hadid]):
    Patrik Schumacher delivered a "Parametricism Manifesto" while director of a firm named for this architect behind the Guangzhou Opera House, the London Aquatics Center, and the Vitra Fire Station.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Gehry; or Frank Owen Goldberg]):
    This architect used software to make the blobs seen in his designs for the Experience Music Project museum and the Guggenheim Bilbao.
  Part 3 (ans: Centre Georges Pompidou [or Pompidou Centre; prompt on the Pompidou museum]):
    One of the first buildings entirely designed on a computer to be erected was a rooftop restaurant for this building. This Parisian art museum is located next to the Stravinsky Fountain and has escalators and piping on its exterior.

[B13] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A newly-established museum in this city is topped by a prominent web-patterned dome, which is meant to resemble rays of sunlight passing through date palm fronds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abu Dhabi):
    Name this capital city whose Saadiyat Island is the site of a new branch of the Louvre designed by Jean Nouvel. Zaha Hadid's Sheikh Zayed Bridge was built in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry [or Frank Owen Goldberg]):
    The cultural complex on Saadiyat Island will also contain a branch of the Guggenheim Museum designed by this architect, who also designed the Guggenheim Bilbao.
  Part 3 (ans: Tadao Ando [or Ando Tadao]):
    A third museum on Saadiyat is a maritime museum designed by this self-taught architect who won the 1995 Pritzker Prize. Light peers through a cross-shaped opening in a concrete wall in his Church of the Light.

[B14] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Warhol's picture of one hundred and fifty different photographs of Marilyn Monroe is here. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Guggenheim-Bilbao):
    Name this curvaceous glassy modern art museum located in the capital of Biscay in Basque country. It is the counterpart to another museum located on 5th avenue.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry):
    The Guggenheim-Bilbao was designed by this modern architect, who recently got into trouble for his Stata Center at MIT being a mold magnet. He also designed the Walt Disney Concert Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Jeff Koons):
    In front of the Guggenheim-Bilbao is a large multicolored sculpture of a puppy made from steel and flowers. That sculpture is by this American artist, who also uses balloon animals as the basis for his steel sculptures.

[B15] 2012 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: You correctly guess the price of a toaster that can work on sixteen pieces of bread simultaneously on The Price is Right and win an all-expenses-paid trip to explore the architecture of Chicago. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robie House):
    You decide to make this house on Woodlawn Avenue your first stop. This structure is essentially made up of two connected parallel rectangles, and its architect called the third floor of this house "The Ship."
  Part 2 (ans: Frank Gehry):
    You then decide to go to Millenium Park, whose Pritzker Pavillion was designed by this man. This architect also designed Prague's "Dancing House" and the Guggenheim museum in Bilbao.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludvig Mies van der Rohe [prompt on Ludvig Mies van der Rohe]):
    Finally, you decide to make a detour to Plano to visit the Farnsworth house, which was designed by this architect. This man designed many buildings for the Illinois Institute of Technology, where he was also a teacher.
