=== STOCK CLUES: Rudyard Kipling ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 34 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]
  - In a story by this author, Nature "audits her accounts with a red pencil" as disease kills both a Muslim boy named for a parrot and his mother, who loves the white "bachelor" Holden.
  - The phrase "but that is another story" recurs in stories from this author's "Seven Years' Hard" period.
  - Writing an "eerie tale" taught this author of "Without Benefit of Clergy" to "think in another man's skin." In a story by this author, two men swear off liquor and women before a fearful girl is betrothed to one of them and bites him, drawing blood that reveals his mortality.
  - In a story by this author of Plain Tales from the Hills and The Phantom Rickshaw, Peachey Carnehan survives crucifixion and retrieves the head of Dravot, whose rope bridge is cut after the pair scheme to rule Kafiristan.
  - For 10 points, what author wrote the "Indian tale" "The Man Who Would Be King"? [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rudyard Kipling
  - A David Haig play about the relationship between this author and his son is titled after his poem "My Boy Jack." This author addressed to the "Lord of our far-flung battle line" a poem that repeats the refrain "Lest we forget." Another poem by this author advises not to "make dreams your master" before calling (*) Triumph and Disaster "two impostors." This poet of "Recessional" penned the line "East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet." A poem by this author ends by exclaiming "You'll be a man, my son!" and begins many of its lines with the title conjunction. [PWR]
  - This author advocated for American occupation of the Philippines in "The White Man's Burden." For 10 points, name this author of the poem "If--" who wrote about Mowgli in The Jungle Book. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Rudyard Kipling
  - In a story by this author, a doctor recites the couplet, "There may be Heaven,- there must be Hell. [PWR]
  - Meantime, there is our life here. [PWR]
  - We-ell?" after seeing something terrifying in the eyes of a man who had died of fright.
  - In The Old Patagonian Express , Borges lauds this poet's phrase "the old grey Widow-maker" after requesting Paul Theroux to read this author's poem "The Harp Song of the Dane Women." Dohra Ahmad's anthology Rotten English includes a poem by this author that complains "it's (*) Tommy this, an' Tommy that, an' 'Tommy, go away.' / But it's 'Thank you, Mister Atkins,' when the band begins to play." In another poem by this author, a group asks, "Why brought ye us from bondage / Our loved Egyptian night?" That poem derides "your new-caught, sullen peoples / Half devil and half child" and inspired a racist ad for Pears' Soap. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this imperialist British poet of "The White Man's Burden," whose Barrack-Room Ballads include "Danny Deever" and "Gunga Din." [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Rudyard Kipling
  - Randall Jarrell claimed that an "unusually simple" way of travelling into the future is to read this author without being prepared to read him as if "one were setting out, naked, to see something that is there naked." George Orwell argued that this man's poetry resulted from his being "half-civilized" in an essay that used this man's line "He travels the fastest who travels alone" as an example of this man as a "good bad poet." This poet of "The Winners" wrote of a character who will be (*) "squattin' on the coals / Givin' drink to poor damned souls" in a poem that tells that character "you're a better man than I." This man included "if all men count on you, but none too much" in a poem that ends "you'll be a man, my son!" The "White Man's Burden" was described by, for 10 points, what poet of "Gunga Din" and "If"? [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rudyard Kipling [Joseph Rudyard Kipling]
  - A novel by this author was originally subtitled "Banker," referring to the protagonist proving himself by fishing in Newfoundland's Grand Banks. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about a spoiled boy who joins the crew of Disko Troop's schooner. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about a religious man who refuses to sell his painting of a wheel of life, and who goes to the Wonder House in search of a river that sprang from an arrow. [PWR]
  - He wrote about Harvey Cheyne in his novel (*) Captains Courageous. [PWR]
  - The title character of a novel by this author is the son of an Irish soldier who lives on the streets of Lahore before meeting a Tibetan lama.
  - That boy helps British agents in the "Great Game" while traveling across India.
  - For 10 points, name this English author of Kim and The Jungle Book. [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]
  - This author wrote "may the jealous Gods prevent our fierce and uncontrolled descent" in a spoof of Ben Jonson called "To a Lady, Persuading her to a Car." He claimed that "all our pomp of yesterday / is one with Nineveh and Tyre" in a poem whose first four stanzas end with the line "Lest we forget -- Lest we forget." He wrote of how "dawn comes up like thunder outer China / 'crost the Bay" in a poem whose speaker imagines a girl "by the old (*) Moulmein pagoda." This author of "Recessional" wrote about the Colonel's son chasing after the horse-thief Kamal but eventually growing to respect him in a poem that begins "East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet." In another poem, the narrator states that an abused water-carrier who took a bullet for him is "a better man than I am." For 10 points, name this British author of "Mandalay", "Gunga Din" and "If". [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Rudyard Kipling
  - In one story by this author, a Norse god is cursed to be a blacksmith shoeing horses for farmers until the day one of his clients thanks him.
  - That story appears in a collection in which Dan and Una meet the title character after putting on a performance of A Midsummer Night's Dream.
  - One of his stories begins on a train where a stranger tells the narrator to give the message "He has gone South for the week" to a red-bearded man at Marwar Junction.
  - This author included "Weland's Sword" in his collection Puck of Pook's Hill, and wrote a story in which Darzee's wife pretends that she has a broken wing in order to let a character enter a nest in a melon patch.
  - He wrote a short story in which Peachy Carnahan and Daniel Dravot set themselves up as the rulers of Kafiristan, as well as a story in which the cobras Nag and Nagaina are defeated by the title heroic mongoose.
  - For 10 points, name this Anglo-Indian author of "The Man Who Would Be King" and "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi." [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Rudyard Kipling
  - One of his poems notes that a male bear might turn back if a peasant shouts at him, but a female bear will simply "rend the peasant tooth and nail." He wrote a poem beginning "The ships destroy us above and ensnare us beneath" for a booklet about naval warfare which contained six essays, each prefaced by a poem, some of which were set to music by Elgar as The Fringes of the Fleet.
  - He wrote a poem recounting how he was struck by the beauty of a Burmese girl while sitting by a pagoda in Moulmein.
  - This author of "Mandalay" wrote a ballad framed as a conversation between Colour-Sergeant and Files-on-Parade.
  - He also wrote a poem whose first four stanzas end with the refrain "Lest we forget - lest we forget!" That poem, which was written for Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee, is called "Recessional." For 10 points, name this poet of "Gunga Din" and "If." [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Rudyard Kipling
  - One of this author's stories ends with the narrator hearing from the Superintendent of the Asylum that a man who was suffering from sunstroke died without anything in his possession; that man had earlier been singing "The Son of Man goes forth to war, / A golden crown to gain." In one of this author's stories, the title character kills Karait, after which Teddy's father beats Karait's dead body and hugs his son, and another story tells of the ex-soldiers Dravot and Carnehan who try to take over (*) Kafiristan.
  - This author of "The Man Who Would Be King" wrote a collection including "The Cat That Walked by Himself" and "How the Camel Got His Hump," and another story ends with the title character emerging from a rat hole announcing the deaths of Nag and Nagaina, a pair of cobras.
  - For 10 points, name the author who created Rikki-Tikki-Tavi in The Jungle Book. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Arabella March murders several of these creatures bought by Adam Salton in Bram Stoker's novel The Lair of the White Worm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mongoose ):
    Name these creatures. In order to get access to a nest in a melon patch, one of these creatures devises a plan that involves a distraction caused by the wife of the tailorbird Darzee.
  Part 2 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    The heroic mongoose Rikki-Tikki-Tavi saves the family of the boy Teddy from two cobras in a story from this author's collection The Jungle Book.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Conan Doyle (The first story is "The Adventure of the Crooked Man." The second story is "The Adventure of the Speckled Band.")):
    In a story by this author, a mongoose named Teddy is owned by Henry Wood, who frightens Colonel Barclay to death. In a different story by this author, Dr. Roylott tries to kill his stepdaughter by sending the title animal through a hole in the wall between their rooms.

[B2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Horacio Quiroga's "Decalogue of the Perfect Short-Story Writer," for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    The Decalogue advises to believe in a teacher as god, citing as one personal example this British author of The Jungle Book.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Feather Pillow" [or "El Almohadon de Pluma"]):
    The Decalogue places special importance on the first words of short stories; Quiroga himself used the line "Alicia's entire honeymoon gave her hot and cold shivers" to open this story in which Alicia's blood is drained by a parasite.
  Part 3 (ans: Uruguay):
    Though Quiroga wrote the Decalogue while working in Argentina, he was born in this Latin American country. Eduardo Galeano, the author of the trilogy Memory of Fire, was from this country.

[B3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author described his radicalization and move from Bengal to the U.S. in his autobiography Caste and Outcast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dhan Gopal Mukerji):
    Name this first well-known Indian author to write in English, who became the first non-white winner of the Newbery Medal for his 1928 novel Gay-Neck, the Story of a Pigeon.
  Part 2 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    Unfortunately, the best known children's writer inspired by animal stories from India is undoubtedly this British author of The Jungle Book.
  Part 3 (ans: Romain Rolland):
    On a more positive note, Mukerji's The Face of Silence "is said to have deeply influenced" this French author, who won the Nobel in 1915 largely on the strength of his 10-volume novel Jean-Christophe.

[B4] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for one of these objects insists, "You will return you will return!" and promises to "wait for you ... under the cailcedra ("kyle-SEE-druh")." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: letter [accept So Long a Letter or "Letter to a Poet"]):
    Name this object that titles a novel about Ramatoulaye, who tells her best friend Aissatou about her husband's choice to take a second wife and his death from a heart attack.
  Part 2 (ans: Senegal [or Republic of Senegal or Republique du Senegal] ("Letter to a Poet" and "Black Woman" are by Leopold Senghor.)):
    This country is home to the author of So Long a Letter, Mariama Ba. Ba criticized the misogynistic ideas in "Black Woman," a poem by an author from this country who wrote Shadow Songs and Ethiopiques.
  Part 3 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    The unrelated Sylvia Washington Ba praised "Black Woman" for depicting black beauty, which she contrasted with this author's colonialist portrayal of whiteness in his poem "The White Man's Burden."

[B5] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote his poem "The Beginnings" to accompany the story "Mary Postgate," whose title character burns Wynn Fowler's belongings in "the destructor" before watching a wounded German pilot die. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Joseph) Rudyard Kipling):
    Name this British writer who wrote about the officer Vickery's obsession with a movie featuring a widow he had met in Auckland in the story "Mrs. Bathurst."
  Part 2 (ans: C. S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]):
    In his essay "Kipling's World," this author of The Screwtape Letters complained that he could not comprehend what actually happens in "Mrs. Bathurst."
  Part 3 (ans: George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]):
    This writer begrudgingly credited Kipling with the insight that "a humanitarian is always a hypocrite," but nevertheless called him a "good bad poet." This writer's essay "Inside the Whale" uses Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer as a starting point to survey 1930s literature.

[B6] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's "Christmas in India" is used to exemplify the Eurocentric "representative" stage of writing native literature for an English audience in the post-colonial study "The Empire Writes Back." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    Name this British poet whose alignment with colonizers is reflected in the poem "The White Man's Burden."
  Part 2 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    This author cited the idea of post-colonial authors "writing back" against British colonialism in "The Empire Writes Back with a Vengeance." This author created the fictional Pakistani town of Q in the novel Shame.
  Part 3 (ans: In a Free State (by V.S. Naipaul)):
    As an example of using untranslated words in English literature to "write back," the study examines this short story collection's use of the word "hubshi" to describe a Black maid whom Santosh marries to gain citizenship after he immigrates to Washington, D.C. in the story "One Out of Many."

[B7] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A work titled for this literary form begins with The Jewel in the Crown, in which a mob beats Hari Kumar and rapes Daphne Manners after catching them having sex in a public park. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: quartet):
    Name this literary form. In one work titled for this form, the novelist Pursewarden serves as a confidant to Ambassador David Mountolive. A Paul Scott work is titled The Raj [this].
  Part 2 (ans: The Far Pavilions):
    The year after Scott finished his The Raj Quartet, fellow British author M. M. Kaye published this epic novel. This novel charts Ashton Pelham-Martyn's life as a soldier and love for Princess Anjuli from the Sepoy Mutiny through the Second Anglo-Afghan War.
  Part 3 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    Ashton is a British orphan raised by an Indian woman to be an Indian, much like the title character of Kim, by this author of "Gunga Din."

[B8] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about references to Alexander the Great in world literature for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Epic of Sundiata [accept Son-Jara]):
    This Malian epic refers to Alexander as "the mighty king of gold and silver" and the focal point of a history of kings that the griot Balla Fasseke tells to its protagonist.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Man who Would Be King" [by Rudyard Kipling]):
    In this story, Daniel Dravot is revered as a second coming of Alexander the Great by a tribe descended from his army in the Pakistani region of Kafiristan.
  Part 3 (ans: Shahnameh):
    In this epic, a talking tree that Alexander finds at the end of the world tells him that he will die in Babylon. In this epic poem, Rostam accidentally kills his son, Sohrab, in battle.

[B9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Boris Johnson described an offensive poem by this author as "good stuff" after being stopped from reciting it in a Burmese pagoda. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    Name this author, who described the Buddha as a "bloomin' idol made o' mud" in that poem, "Mandalay." He also wrote about a street child who becomes a secret agent in British India in his novel Kim.
  Part 2 (ans: George Orwell):
    In an essay on Kipling, this writer said that "Mandalay" was pleasurable, but that "those lines are not poetry in the same sense" as Shakespeare is poetry. This author of the essay "Good Bad Books" also commented that "it is no use pretending that Kipling's view of life, as a whole, can be accepted or even forgiven by any civilized person."
  Part 3 (ans: "Gunga Din"):
    Orwell gave this poem as an example of Kipling "at his worst and also his most vital." This poem concludes with the narrator, who was played by Cary Grant in a movie adaptation, hailing the title Indian water bearer with the line "You're a better man than I am."

[B10] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is introduced as a "limpin' lump o' brick-dust." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gunga Din [or Gunga]):
    Name this water bearer who dies a hero in a poem. The narrator notes that that while he's belted and flayed this character, he's a better man than the narrator.
  Part 2 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    "Gunga Din" is a poem by this man, the author of The Jungle Book.
  Part 3 (ans: "Danny Deever"):
    In this other Kipling poem, the title character is a soldier set to be executed after murdering one of his confederates. The refrain of this poem notes "they're hanging [the title character] in the mornin'."

[B11] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these poets who wrote about different colors of roses, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Burns):
    This Scottish author of "A Red, Red Rose" also wrote "Tam O'Shanter" and "To A Mouse."
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Marti):
    This poet wrote that the title object is for both "the sincere friend / who gives me his hand frankly" and "the cruel person who tears out / the heart with which I live" in "I Cultivate A White Rose."
  Part 3 (ans: Rudyard Kipling (the latter poem is "If")):
    This poet described a passionate lust in the poem "Blue Roses." Another of this author's poems advises "keep your head when all about you" and describes conditions that can be met so that "Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it!"

[B12] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem was written to honor the actions of Leander Starr Jameson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "If-"):
    Name this poem which tells its addressee to "keep your head when all about you are losing theirs and blaming it on you". The ending of this poem notes that the person who displays all the aforementioned accomplishments will "be a man, my son".
  Part 2 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    "If-" was written by this British author, who also wrote about the "man-cub" Mowgli in The Jungle Book.
  Part 3 (ans: the Copybook Headings [or "The Gods of the Copybook Headings"]):
    A 1919 poem by Kipling talks about the "gods" of these things, which were basically proverbs students were required to write down. The gods of these things, according to the poem, claim "the wages of sin is death" and "if you don't work you die".

[B13] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The "Lodge" of this person runs "From the Pole to the Tropics" according to the poem "The Widow at Windsor." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Queen Victoria [or Misses Victorier; or Alexandrina Victoria; prompt on the Queen or similar answers]):
    Name this person. A poem beseeching "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, Lest we forget-lest we forget!," titled "Recessional," was written for this person.
  Part 2 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    This British-Indian author of "Recessional" included "The Widow at Windsor" among his Barrack-Room Ballads, along with "Mandalay" and "Gunga Din."
  Part 3 (ans: "Tommy"):
    In this other poem from Barrack-Room Ballads, the title drunken soldier gets kicked out of bars and theaters, and feels underappreciated by society, relative to his civilian counterpart "Mister Atkins."

[B14] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Two soldiers in this story pass through the Khyber Pass with a caravan while disguised as toy salesmen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Man Who Would Be King):
    Name this novella in which the wife of Daniel Dravot bites him, revealing to Kafiristan through the resulting trickle of blood that he is not a god.
  Part 2 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    This author of Gunga Din, who showed a reversal of colonial power structures when a white man falls in a ravine full of cholera victims in "The Strange Ride of Morrowbie Jukes," wrote "The Man Who Would Be King".
  Part 3 (ans: train stations [or railway stations; or railway junctions; or other reasonable equivalents]):
    Kipling was among the first authors to make a great deal of money selling his work in these places, where the narrator of "The Man Who Would Be King" delivers the message "He has gone South for the week."

[B15] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Anyone, even Chris Ray, can write great literature while using opium. Answer the following regarding those who merely wrote about it, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]):
    An opium den run by "Old Fung-Tching" is the title edifice of "The Gate of the Hundred Sorrows", the first published story by this English author of Captains Courageous and "Danny Deever".
  Part 2 (ans: The Mystery of Edwin Drood):
    John Jasper leaves an opium den in the opening scene of this unfinished final novel by Charles Dickens, which leaves the identity of the title character's murderer unrevealed.
  Part 3 (ans: Sherlock Holmes [or Sherlock Holmes]):
    Isa Whitney is discovered in an opium den at the beginning of "The Man with the Twisted Lip", one of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's 56 short stories about this fictional detective.

[B16] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions related to the life and career of William Ernest Henley, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Invictus"):
    Henley is most famous for this poem of his, which states "I thank whatever gods may be/For my unconquerable soul" and ends "I am the master of my fate/I am the captain of my soul."
  Part 2 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    As editor of the National Observer, Henley introduced the English public to this author by publishing his Barrack-Room Ballads, including the poems "Fuzzy-Wuzzy" and "Gunga Din." He also wrote The Jungle Book.
  Part 3 (ans: Captains Courageous):
    In this Kipling novel, the spoiled brat Harvey "Don't Call Me Mike" Cheyne becomes more considerate after falling off of a boat and being rescued by the fishing captain Dan Troop, who puts him to work on the We're Here.

[B17] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker says he "sha'n't forgit the night When [he] dropped be'ind the fight With a bullet where [his] belt-place should 'a' been" and this character came to his rescue. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gunga Din [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this character about whom the speaker of a poem says, "The uniform 'e wore Was nothin' much before." While saving that speaker, this character takes a bullet and dies.
  Part 2 (ans: "If"):
    In this other poem, the speaker tells his son to "talk with crowds and keep [his] virtue," among other things, and concludes, "Yours is the earth and everything that's in it, And... you'll be a Man, my son!"
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Rudyard Kipling):
    "Gunga Din" and "If" were written by this English poet who also wrote "The White Man's Burden" and The Jungle Book.

[B18] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A dog states "Mistress, I dug upon your grave to bury a bone, in case I should be hungry near this spot when passing on my daily trot" in his "Ah, Are you Digging On My Grave?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Name this poet, who included that poem in his collection Satires of Circumstance. He also wrote "The Convergence of the Twain" and "The Darkling Thrush."
  Part 2 (ans: "Hap"):
    This Hardy poem, an examination of Darwinian evolution, imagines a "vengeful god" calling "from up the sky" and stating "Thou suffering thing, know that thy sorrow is my ecstasy!"
  Part 3 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    According to one anecdote, both Hardy and this other poet contented themselves with obscurity when a woman failed to recognize either of their names. This poet's works include "If" and "Gunga Din."

[B19] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This book is presented as the dream of Dr. Philip Raven, who imagines what a history textbook in 2106 will say. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Shape of Things to Come):
    Name this 1933 publication which predicts that World War II will last ten years, after which a "Dictatorship of the Air" will create a utopian world state.
  Part 2 (ans: Herbert George Wells):
    Other nonfiction by this author of The Shape of Things to Come includes Will Socialism Destroy the Home? and The Outline of History. He may be better-known for novels like The Island of Dr. Moreau.
  Part 3 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    The Dictatorship of the Air was based on the Aerial Board of Control, a group which appears in both "With the Night Mail" and "As Easy as ABC", the only two works of science fiction written by this man. In a short story by this writer, Daniel Dravot is executed after a girl bites him and he is seen bleeding.

[B20] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem notes that "if it comes to slaughter, you will do your work on water." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Gunga Din"):
    Name this poem, which describes a regiment mistreating the title character, who provides them with water. At the end of this work, that character saves the narrator's life before being killed, prompting the narrator to say, "You're a better man than I am."
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Rudyard Kipling):
    "Gunga Din" is a poem by this English author, whose works are frequently set in Asia. He also wrote The Jungle Book and Kim.
  Part 3 (ans: "Mandalay"):
    In this Kipling poem, which was published in Barrack-Room Ballads, the narrator is "by the old Moulmein Pagoda" and hears temple-bells inviting him to "come you back to" the title location, where "the dawn comes up like thunder."

[B21] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author introduced his recurring characters Learoyd, Otheris, and Mulvaney in his short story collection Plain Tales from the Hills. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    Name this British author of Captains Courageous and "The Man Who Would Be King."
  Part 2 (ans: "Recessional"):
    Kipling wrote this poem for Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee. It repeats the refrain "lest we forget--lest we forget," and warns against imperial hubris.
  Part 3 (ans: Stalky & Co.):
    Kipling's experiences at the United Services College inspired him to write this collection of tales about a boarding school, which relates the exploits of the title character and his friends Beetle and M'Turk.
