=== STOCK CLUES: The Jungle Book ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Purdue IM Housewrite (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: The Jungle Book
  - This collection contains a story in which Kala Nag takes a boy named Little Toomai into the forest for "the dance of the elephants." In another story from this collection, Kaa hypnotizes the Bandar-log monkeys. [PWR]
  - A third story from this collection features an English family who is saved from the cobras Nag and Nagaina by a friendly mongoose. [PWR]
  - This collection includes (*) "Tiger!
  - Tiger" and "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi," as well as a story in which a child is raised by wolves and uses fire to drive off the murderous tiger Shere Khan.
  - (sheer khan). [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this collection by Rudyard Kipling that features the "man-cub" Mowgli and his companions Bagheera and Baloo. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: The Jungle Book
  - Karim is asked by Shadwell to wear a loincloth and use an accent while performing in a play of this name in The Buddha of Suburbia. [PWR]
  - A collection of adult satirical stories with this name was written by graphic artist Harvey Kurtzman. [PWR]
  - Neil Gaiman was inspired by a collection of this name to write a collection of stories set in a graveyard. [PWR]
  - A "second" collection of this name contains a story in which a village is destroyed after (*) Messua and her husband are imprisoned for adopting a child. [PWR]
  - In a 1894 collection of this name, Little Toomai returns to camp after seeing elephants dance and two snakes are killed by a mongoose.
  - For 10 points, give this title of a Rudyard Kipling collection featuring Rikki-Tikki-Tavi and Mowgli. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Delta Burke (2018) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: The Jungle Book
  - One story in this collection concerns Kotick, a white seal who finds a safe place to lead his brethren away from fur hunters.
  - Nag and Nagaina [nag-ah-ee-nah] are cobras who conspire to kill one title character of a story in this book; that is the mongoose Rikki Tikki Tavi.
  - The protagonist of the best-known stories from this book is kidnapped by Bandar Log monkeys, but is rescued by Bagheera and Kaa, a panther and serpent.
  - That protagonist is a human boy raised by the wolf Akela.
  - For 10 points, Mowgli and Baloo the bear appear in what collection by Rudyard Kipling? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Russian composer Sofia Gubaidulina ("goo-bye-DOO-lin-uh"), who died in 2025. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: violin concerto [prompt on concerto]):
    Gubaidulina's 1980 piece Offertorium was a piece in this genre dedicated to Gidon Kremer. Hilary Hahn recorded an E minor piece in this genre by Felix Mendelssohn with the Oslo Philharmonic in 2002.
  Part 2 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    Gubaidulina also wrote the score for the 1967 Soviet animated film Adventures of Mowgli, which was based on this Rudyard Kipling collection whose Disney adaptation was released the same year.
  Part 3 (ans: Mstislav Rostropovich [or Mstislav Leopoldovich Rostropovich]):
    Gubaidulina dedicated her piece Canticle of the Sun to this Russian cellist, dubbed by Julian Lloyd Webber as "probably the greatest cellist of all time." This cellist was the dedicatee of both of Shostakovich's cello concerti and Prokofiev's cello sonata.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Romulo Gallegos' novel Canaima is in a subgenre of novela de la tierra set in this kind of place, which often featured idealistic protagonists overwhelmed by the forces of nature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the jungle [accept the rainforest; accept la novela de la selva; accept The Jungle Book; prompt on the wilderness]):
    Name this kind of natural setting that also titles a set of Kipling stories about the "man-cub" Mowgli.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Colombia (The second novel is One Hundred Years of Solitude.)):
    An unstable poet is "devoured" by the jungle in this country's novel The Vortex. A character in a novel from this country named Rebeca starts a plague of insomnia and carries around a bag of her parents' bones.
  Part 3 (ans: Horacio Quiroga [or Horacio Silvestre Quiroga Forteza] (The second story is "The Decapitated Chicken.")):
    A father refuses to accept his boy's death while hunting in "The Son," one of this author's many stories set in the jungle of Misiones. In a story by this author, four brothers behead their sister after seeing how dinner is prepared.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel begins with the playwright Amma opening her show The Last Amazon of Dahomey in London. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Girl, Woman, Other):
    Name this novel by Bernardine Evaristo about the intersecting experiences of twelve women, which ends with characters reuniting at the National Theatre.
  Part 2 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    In Hanif Kureishi's The Buddha of Suburbia, Karim joins the London theater scene and portrays the "man-cub" Mowgli in a stage adaptation of this Rudyard Kipling collection.
  Part 3 (ans: picaresque novels):
    Sarah Waters draws on this literary genre in her novel Tipping the Velvet, in which Nan runs away to London and becomes a cross-dressing theater entertainer. Novels in this genre, which typically depict a roguish lower-class hero's adventures, include Tom Jones and Moll Flanders.

[B4] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this surname published the Modernist poetry collection The Hallucinated City and created a shapeshifting trickster of the Tapanhumas tribe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: de Andrade (jee on-DRAH-jee) [accept Mario de Andrade or Oswald de Andrade]):
    Give this surname of Mario, the author of Macunaima (ma-koo-na-EE-muh). Another Group of Five member with this surname wrote "Tupi or not Tupi" in the Anthropophagic Manifesto.
  Part 2 (ans: jungles [accept selvas; accept Jungle Tales or The Jungle Book]):
    Macunaima opens with the title character's birth in a "virgin" one of these places. A Horacio Quiroga (oh-RAHSS-yo kee-ROH-ga) book named for these places was inspired by a similarly titled Kipling book about Mowgli's life in one of these places.
  Part 3 (ans: The Lusiads [accept Os Lusiadas]):
    The "Letter to the Icamiabas" section of Macunaima was inspired by the first-person narrated Cantos III and IV of this epic poem about the voyages of Vasco da Gama.

[B5] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A sequel to this story, "The Discourager of Hesitancy", begins with five travelers visiting a kingdom to discover what happened to the lover in this story. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Lady, or the Tiger?"):
    A king sets his daughter's lover to choose between two doors, behind which lies either death or a woman, in what short story by Frank R. Stockton?
  Part 2 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    Upon finding the tiger Sher Khan asleep, Mowgli and Akela order a stampede of wolves to kill him in a story from this Rudyard Kipling collection.
  Part 3 (ans: "Bestiary" [or "Bestiario"]):
    In this title story of a collection by Julio Cortazar ("core-TAH-sar"), the young girl Isabel spends her summer living in a country house inhabited by an unrestrained tiger, which she never sees.

[B6] 2020 Delta Burke (2020) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This man was Britain's first Nobel laureate, but his importance has waned since the early 20th century, partly due to his support for imperialism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    What author of the novel Kim wrote that if one can "fill the unforgiving minute/With sixty seconds' distance run/Yours is the earth and everything that's in it" in his poem "If"?
  Part 2 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    Kipling is best known in the US for this book of tales about Baloo the bear and his friend Mowgli, a boy raised by wolves.
  Part 3 (ans: Rikki Tikki Tavi):
    Another character in The Jungle Book is this mongoose who kills the cobras Nag and Nagaina.

[B7] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: This term names a type of cultural narrative which is called a pourquoi ("poor-KWAH") tale in French. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: just-so stories):
    Give the two-word term for fantastic origin tales. Several of them which a British author told to his daughter Effie, such as "How the Whale Got His Throat," title a 1902 book.
  Part 2 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    In a successor to this classic Kipling novel, the protagonist Mowgli hears the just-so story "How the Tiger Got His Stripes." Mowgli is threatened by Shere Khan in this novel.
  Part 3 (ans: hedgehogs):
    Another of the Just So Stories stories concerns how a tortoise and one of these other animals became the first armadillos. The Greek poet Archilochus ("ar-kih-LOW-kus") wrote that this animal knows "one big thing."

[B8] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this collection's story "Wild Honey," Gabriel Benincasa is paralyzed by the honey he eats and is devoured by ants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stories of Love, Madness and Death [or Cuentos de amor de locura y de muerte; or Tales of Love, Madness and Death]):
    Name this Horacio Quiroga ("kee-ROH-gah") collection that includes a story in which the newlywed Alicia is preyed on by a parasite living in the title object, "The Feather Pillow."
  Part 2 (ans: jungle [or selva; accept Jungle Tales or Cuentos de la selva; accept The Jungle Book]):
    Many of Quiroga's stories tell of the dangers of this type of place. A Quiroga collection named after this type of place was inspired by a Rudyard Kipling book that details Mowgli's adventures.
  Part 3 (ans: chicken [accept rooster; accept hen]):
    In a Quiroga story, the sight of this animal's beheading leads Mazzini and Berta's "four idiot sons" to behead their sister. In No One Writes to the Colonel, the colonel struggles with the decision to sell a prize animal of this kind that had belonged to his son.

[B9] 2017 SUN (2017) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: One novel by this author sees a character admit to both being named after an island west of Greenland and to the fact that his mate Long Jack called him "Discobolus". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    Name this English author who created Disko Troop and Harvey Cheyne Jr. for Captains Courageous. He also penned the poem "The White Man's Burden".
  Part 2 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    Kipling also published this collection of stories whose first tale recounts how the man-cub Mowgli has to fight the tiger Shere Khan.
  Part 3 (ans: "Gunga Din"):
    One poem by Kipling sees British soldiers shout "You limping lump o' brick-dust" at the title bhisti. At this poem's end, the narrator states that "You're a better man than I" to the title Indian Water-bearer.

[B10] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play ends with a monologue in which a character says that he and another woman will "be together in our bear's cave, and our squirrel's drey, and we'll live on honey, and nuts." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Look Back in Anger):
    Name this play in which Helena leaves Jimmy Porter's residence after Alison returns and tells her that she lost the baby she was carrying after going home with her father, Colonel Redfern.
  Part 2 (ans: The Winter's Tale):
    The stage direction "exit, pursued by a bear" appears in this play in which Polixenes escapes Sicilia with the aid of Camillo, leading Leontes to accuse his wife of infidelity and throw her in prison.
  Part 3 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    The bear Baloo, who is partly responsible for educating the wolf cubs, appears in this Rudyard Kipling collection that includes "Mowgli's Song" and "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi."

[B11] 2016 Delta Burke (2016) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A huge-selling postcard of the early 20th century depicted a young woman blushing when asked if she liked this author, replying, "I've never kippled." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudyard Kipling):
    What author created the title character Kimball O'Hara in the novel Kim, as well as the mongoose Rikki Tikki Tavi?
  Part 2 (ans: "The White Man's Burden"):
    Kipling implored the US to pick up Britain's imperialist efforts in this poem, the title of which refers to the weight of responsibility on Caucasians to control their "new-caught, sullen peoples."
  Part 3 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    Kipling is best known to American audiences due to the may screen adaptations of this collection of stories, three of which focus on the "man-cub" Mowgli.

[B12] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: 12-year-old Yukiko runs away with 17-year-old Mitsuo in one novel by this author, and the two relive events from the first couple of years after WWII, including dying in a shipwreck, of cholera, and in a dog attack. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tsushima Yuko [prompt on "Yuko"]):
    Name this daughter of Dazai Osamu and author of Laughing Wolf, who wrote several short stories about women and children often abandoned by a husband, parent, or someone else in the collection The Shooting Gallery.
  Part 2 (ans: The Jungle Book):
    Throughout Laughing Wolf, Mitsuo sings songs from this book to himself and tries to instill in Yukiko a respect for "the Law". Mitsuo and Yukiko also take the names Akela and Mowgli from characters in this Kipling novel.
  Part 3 (ans: "Silent Trade" [or Silent Barter or Dumb Barter or Depot Trade]):
    One of Tsushima's best known stories is named for this method of goods exchange by parties incapable of communicating with one another. This practice is most associated with gold-for-salt trade in West Africa.
