=== STOCK CLUES: Jerome Robbins ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jerome Robbins
  - Frequent Mel Brooks collaborator Alan Johnson won an American Choreography award for restaging this choreographer's works in a 2000 series of Gap commercials.
  - In one work by this choreographer, the ballet ends with "The Woman" character yelling "Stop!", a role premiered by Nora Kaye and banned for portraying a neurotic love triangle.
  - This choreographer of Facsimile created a ballet in which a galop, waltz, and danzon by three solo dancers are followed by a fistfight, which was was inspired by a Paul Cadmus painting of sailors called The Fleet's In!.
  - This choreographer visited Orthodox Jewish weddings to get inspiration for the Bottle Dance in Fiddler on the Roof.
  - Alongside Robert Wise, he won a Best Director Oscar for a work in which he instructed some dancers to snap their thumb and index fingers to distinguish them from the Sharks.
  - For 10 points, name this choreographer of Fancy Free and West Side Story. [GIVE]

[T2] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jerome Robbins
  - This artist choreographed a comedic "mistake waltz" for a ballet depicting the daydreams of audience members attending an all-Chopin recital.
  - Another of this artist's ballets uses Stravinsky's Concerto in D to accompany a group of female insects who kill and devour a male insect after sex.
  - This choreographer of The Concert and The Cage used Paul Cadmus's painting The Fleet's In as the inspiration for a 1944 ballet about three sailors on shore leave who pick up two girls and then fight over them.
  - This artist choreographed a scene in which men dance while balancing bottles on their heads at a wedding, as well as the ballet sequences for The King and I.
  - He collaborated with Leonard Bernstein on his first ballet, Fancy Free, and choreographed Bernstein's songs "Cool" and "America" for a ballet about the Sharks and the Jets.
  - For 10 points, name this American choreographer of the musicals Fiddler on the Roof and West Side Story. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In print ads for this lyricist duo's musical Subways Are for Sleeping, David Merrick used positive quotes from laypeople he had invited who had the same names as theatre critics. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Betty Comden AND Adolph Green):
    Name this lyricist duo whose musicals include On the Town and Wonderful Town. As part of Arthur Freed's "unit," they wrote the screenplay for Singin' in the Rain.
  Part 2 (ans: Jerome Robbins [or Jerome Wilson Rabinowitz]):
    The cast of Comden and Green's musical Billion Dollar Baby watched silently as this choreographer of Fiddler on the Roof fell into the orchestra pit while yelling at them during rehearsal. On the Town is based on this choreographer's ballet Fancy Free.
  Part 3 (ans: MGM [or Metro-Goldwyn-Meyer]):
    This studio produced Comden and Green's films for the Freed unit. This studio produced The Wizard of Oz and uses the Leo the Lion logo.

[B2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Fred Astaire's character sings of being in this state, as his tap dancing wakes up Ginger Rogers's character on the floor below, in the song "No Strings" from the film Top Hat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fancy free):
    The Gene Kelly musical On the Town adapts a ballet titled for what two-word state of being, in which three sailors on shore for a day compete for the attention of two women?
  Part 2 (ans: Jerome Robbins [or Jerome Wilson Rabinowitz] (The latter musical is West Side Story.)):
    Both On the Town and Fancy Free were choreographed by this artist. Male dancers coolly snap their fingers while rushing forward in this artist's choreography for another production.
  Part 3 (ans: "New York, New York" [accept "Theme from New York, New York"]):
    The sailors arrive in the city in a jubilant opening song of this title from On the Town. Frank Sinatra popularized the theme to a movie musical with this repetitive title, which opens "start spreading the news / I'm leaving today."

[B3] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One ballet by this choreographer features a "mistake waltz" that depicts daydreaming audience members at a recital. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerome Robbins):
    Name this American choreographer of The Concert as well as On the Town and Fiddler on the Roof.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonard Bernstein):
    Several of the ballets that Robbins choreographed, including On the Town and Fancy Free, were collaborations with this American composer of the Kaddish Symphony.
  Part 3 (ans: West Side Story):
    Another Bernstein and Robbins collaboration was this adaptation of Romeo and Juliet set in a Puerto Rican neighborhood of the Upper West Side. This musical juxtaposes the romance between Tony and Maria with the gang rivalry of the Jets and Sharks.

[B4] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This choreographer is the subject of Catherine Gund's documentary BORN TO FLY. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Streb):
    Name this contemporary dancer and choreographer known for having her dancers flung into walls, intentionally dropped from great heights, and smashed into Plexiglass panels.
  Part 2 (ans: Jerome Robbins):
    This much more conventional choreographer is best known for his Tony award winning choreography for musicals like Gypsy, Fiddler on the Roof, and West Side Story.
  Part 3 (ans: Martha Graham):
    This dancer reshaped modern dance with her namesake technique in addition to choreographing Appalachian Spring.

[B5] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A fight scene in this musical directly follows the performance of the "Tonight Quintet." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: West Side Story):
    Name this musical in which two lovers find themselves free from their troubles during the singing of "Somewhere," which is again sung by the female lead near its end after she finds her lover dead.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonard Bernstein):
    This composer wrote the music for West Side Story. His symphonies have nicknames such as Jeremiah, The Age of Anxiety, and Kaddish.
  Part 3 (ans: Jerome Robbins):
    On the other hand, the choreography for West Side Story was executed by this man, who also worked on On the Town and Fiddler on the Roof.

[B6] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this show, Riff, the leader of the Jets warns "Take it slow and Daddy-O" in "Cool." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: West Side Story):
    Name this musical with music by Leonard Bernstein and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, an adaptation of Romeo and Juliet set in Hell's Kitchen.
  Part 2 (ans: Jerome Robbins [or Jerome Rabinowitz]):
    The original production of West Side Story was directed and choreographed by this American dancer who also did Fiddler on the Roof and Fancy Free. He studied chemistry at NYU but left after a year, and thus avoided ending up on the wrong side of unstable.
  Part 3 (ans: On the Town):
    Robbins had previously collaborated with Bernstein on this musical, which was itself an adaptation of his earlier ballet 'Fancy Free.' In this musical, three sailors are given 24 hours of shore leave in New York, which they spend on fun and romance.
