=== STOCK CLUES: Juan Gris ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Juan Gris <HF>
  - In a lecture at the Sorbonne, this artist called painting "a sort of flat, coloured architecture." The subject of a portrait by this artist wears a high-collared jacket and holds a palette in front of a brown background dominated by parallel diagonal lines. [PWR]
  - This artist often used newspapers in his still-lifes, such as a painting featuring wood-grain and colorful dot patterns, Newspaper and Fruit Dish, and a papier colle ["pa-pyey kaw-ley"] featuring light streaming through venetian blinds. [PWR]
  - Along with such artists as Jean (*) Metzinger and Jacques Lipchitz, this artist pioneered a style that featured larger overlapping planes and more focus on flat surfaces than the earlier "analytic" variants of the movement he was part of.
  - This artist of The Sunblind painted a Portrait of Pablo Picasso.
  - This artist, who died at the age of 40, was a major exponent of crystal cubism.
  - For 10 points, name this Spanish cubist painter. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, identify the following about depictions of newspapers in paintings.
  Part 1 (ans: Edgar Degas [or Hilaire-Germain-Edgar De Gas]):
    A man reads a newspaper in the center of this artist's New Orleans Cotton Exchange. This artist's paintings of horse races, ballet dancers practicing, and women bathing were highly influential to the Impressionists.
  Part 2 (ans: Juan Gris [or Jose Victoriano Gonzalez-Perez ]):
    A 1916 still life by this artist features both a lemon and a newspaper. The objects on this artist's Cubist Still Life with Checkered Tablecloth form the shape of a bull, a symbol of his native country.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Braque):
    A newspaper ad for Motobloc automobiles can be seen in Bottle, Glass and Newspaper, a painting by this co-founder of Cubism with Pablo Picasso.

[B2] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first three letters of this word are visible at the bottom of Picasso's Guitar, Sheet Music and Wine Glass. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Journal [accept J-O-U or J-O-U-R]):
    Give this French word, or its first few letters, that's often depicted cut off in Cubist art. Its first few letters appear in a namesake Braque still life, Picasso's Still Life with Chair Caning, and in Miro's The Tilled Field.
  Part 2 (ans: Juan Gris [or Jose Victoriano Carmelo Carlos Gonzalez-Perez]):
    A copy of Le Journal appears in this Cubist's Still Life with Checkered Tablecloth, which punningly turns wine into water by showing only the letters "E-A-U" on a bottle of Beaujolais. He made a 1912 portrait of Picasso.
  Part 3 (ans: Analytic Cubism [or cubisme analytique]):
    Gris's portrait of Picasso was painted at the very end of his involvement in this first phase of cubism, whose name he coined.

[B3] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this artist's The Painter's Window, the title object is obscured by a guitar, a palette, a panel holding pears, and a few playing cards. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juan Gris [or Jose Victoriano Gonzalez-Perez]):
    Name this artist, whose 1915 painting Fantomas shows half of Le Journal newspaper blending in with the table on which it rests.
  Part 2 (ans: a glass of beer):
    Two strips of orange wallpaper run down the left of a 1913 Juan Gris painting at the Columbus Museum of Art titled for playing cards and one of these objects. A blue silhouette is traced around this object in the aforementioned painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo Picasso [or Pablo Ruiz y Picasso or Pablo Diego Jose Francisco de Paula Juan Nepomuceno Maria de los Remedios Cipriano de la Santisima Trinidad Ruiz y Picasso]):
    This other artist, also fond of painting harlequins, showed a harlequin playing a guitar alongside a Pierrot on clarinet and a monk holding sheet music in one of his versions of Three Musicians.

[B4] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Artworks representative of this movement include Frantisek Kupka's The Disks of Newton: Study for a Fugue in Two Colors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orphism):
    Name this art movement exemplified by Robert Delaunay's Simultaneous Contrasts: Sun and Moon. It takes its name from an ancient mythological figure and is known for incorporating color into angular shapes.
  Part 2 (ans: cubism):
    Orphism combines this movement, pioneered by Braque and Picasso, with bursts of color. The analytic phase of this movement deconstructed the world into various basic geometric shapes.
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Gris):
    This artist's own personal take on cubism can be seen in his Homage to Pablo Picasso, which incorporates shadows into the geometry. His Still-Life and Townscape integrates newspaper text into the painting.

[B5] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist simplified the title landmark to a brown triangle and emphasized a guitar which extends to a black and white upside-down hat or toilet bowl in his painting The Mountain "Le Canigou." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juan Gris [or Jose Victoriano (Carmelo Carlos) Gonzalez-Perez]):
    Name this one-time designer of sets for Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, perhaps best known for cocking his head to the right in a portrait by Modigliani and painting Picasso holding a palette in a work dominated by diagonals.
  Part 2 (ans: Cubism):
    Juan Gris was the third wheel in this art movement pioneered by Pablo Picasso and George Braque, in which objects were depicted from multiple viewpoints made up of basic geometric forms.
  Part 3 (ans: synthetic Cubism):
    Gris first painted as an analytic Cubist, but switched to this other style in 1913. This style simplified the geometric forms of paintings even further and introduced the practice of collage, blending low and high art.

[B6] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer these questions about cubism.
  Part 1 (ans: Les Desmoiselles d'Avignon [or The Young Ladies of Avignon]):
    Two of the five nude women in this seminal Pablo Picasso painting have faces like African masks.
  Part 2 (ans: George Braque):
    The second most prominent cubist after Pablo Picasso was this Frenchman who painted Violin and Candlestick.
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Gris [or Jose Victoriano Gonzalez-Perez]):
    This Spaniard painted a dude in a cubist top hat in The Man in the Cafe and memorialized another cubist in a Portrait of Picasso.

[B7] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted many portraits of his wife Jeanne Hebuterne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amedeo Clemente Modigliani):
    Name this Italian painter, a notorious drunkard who created portraits of his friends Paul Guillaime and Max Jacob. His portraits feature elongated necks, oval faces, and almond-shaped eyes.
  Part 2 (ans: caryatids):
    Modigliani created several paintings with this name, which depict a naked woman crouching and holding a large object above her head. In Greek architecture, this term refers to a statue of a woman used in place of a column.
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Gris):
    Another of Modigliani's portraits depicts this artist of The Open Window and Glass of Beer and Playing Cards. He also delivered the lecture "On the Possibilities of Painting" at the Sorbonne before dying of renal failure in 1927.
