=== STOCK CLUES: Spenser ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 54 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser [accept "An Imitation of Spenser"; accept Spenserian stanza; accept Spenserian sonnet]
  - Per the title, this author is mimicked in a poem that tells of when "Morning from her orient chamber came." James Thomson's Castle of Indolence and the earliest known poem by John Keats are both labeled an imitation of this author, whose portrayals of characters who resist strong temptation led a later poet to call this "sage and serious" author a "better teacher than Scotus or Aquinas" in the tract Areopagitica ["ah-REE-oh-pah-GIT-ica"]. [PWR]
  - Keats's Eve of St.
  - Agnes and Byron's (*) Childe Harold's Pilgrimage use the alexandrine-terminated ABABBCC form introduced by this author in a poem often prefaced with his "Letter to Raleigh." He used an interlocking rhyme scheme in the three quatrains of his namesake sonnet form.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of Amoretti and the epic The Faerie Queene. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser(The first poem is "Of this worlds Theatre in which we stay" from Amoretti. The collection in the third sentence is The Shepheardes Calender.)
  - One of this poet's speakers bemoans, "when I laugh" the addressee "mocks, and when I cry / She laughs" and compares her to a "Spectator" and a "senseless stone." When one of this author's speakers is told that he "dost in vain assay, / A mortal thing so to immortalize," he responds, "Our love shall live, and later life renew." This author used a character created by John Skelton for a collection of eclogues that deliberately uses archaic spelling.
  - A poem by this author beginning (*) "One day I wrote her name upon the strand" is dedicated to Elizabeth Boyle.
  - The shepherd Colin Clout appears in several works by this author of the sonnet cycle Amoretti who also created the female knight Britomart and the Redcrosse Knight.
  - For 10 points, name this Elizabethan poet of The Faerie Queene. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Despenser [or Hugh le Despenser or Henry le Despenser]
  - In a plot to assassinate the reigning king and a man from this family, the magician John of Nottingham created wax likenesses that he stabbed with pins. [PWR]
  - Those men from this family were allowed to return from exile after Margaret de Clare ordered archers to fire on the queen whom she barred from entering Leeds Castle. [PWR]
  - A man from this family defeated a rebel army from Norfolk at North Walsham in the final battle of the Peasants' Revolt. [PWR]
  - That man from this family, who led a failed crusade against antipope Clement VII, was known as the (*) "Fighting Bishop." A man from this family was given land in the Welsh Marches, sparking a namesake war that ended with the Earl of Lancaster's defeat at Boroughbridge. [PWR]
  - That man and his father of the same name were executed after an invasion led by Roger Mortimer and Isabella of France.
  - For 10 points, name this family whose members included a man who, like Piers Gaveston, was a court favorite of Edward II. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser [accept Spenserian stanza]
  - A two-part unfinished work by this poet begins by describing a "man that sees the ever-whirling wheel of Change" and noting how the title figure plays "her cruel sports, to many mens decay." This poet alluded to Petrarch's laurel by describing "Bayleaves between and Primroses green" in a poem that was published under the pseudonym "Immerito." The first recorded use of the word "sarcasm" in English is in a work by this poet that is narrated by the mysterious (*) "E.K." One of this poet's characters meets a tree who was once the man Fradubio. [PWR]
  - This poet's Mutabilitie Cantos feature stanzas in "AB AB BC BC C" rhyme, consisting of eight lines of iambic pentameter plus an alexandrine.
  - The character of Colin Clout was created by this poet, who featured allegorical figures like the Redcrosse Knight and Gloriana in an epic poem.
  - For 10 points, who wrote The Shepheardes Calender and The Faerie Queene? [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser
  - One of this author's speakers wonders at the fact that fire "should harden ice" and ice "should kindle fire." Nine stanzas of anacreonatics by this poet were appended to one of his collections whose entries correspond to daily readings prescribed by the Book of Common Prayer.
  - The speaker is told that he "dost in vain assay, / A mortal thing so to immortalize" by the tide in a poem by this writer.
  - One poem by this author opens "Happy ye leaves when as those lily hands," while another begins "One day I wrote her name upon the strand." This poet included "Epithalamion" in an 81-sonnet cycle dedicated to Elizabeth Boyle, his Amoretti.
  - In this author's most famous work, the wizard Archimago tricks the Redcrosse Knight and a monarch named Gloriana serves as the title figure.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Faerie Queene. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Hugh le Despenser the Younger [do not accept or prompt on the "elder"]
  - To increase his land holdings, this man ordered that all the limbs of Joan de Gynes, the widow of Stephen Baret, be broken.
  - Alison Weir controversially claimed that this man raped a queen.
  - A verse from Psalm 52 asking "Why do you boast in mischief?" was carved into this man's skin a few days before he was drawn and quartered at Hereford.
  - This husband of Eleanor de Clare was once granted the entirety of Wallingford Castle, and seized control of land belonging to Humphrey de Bohun, thus initiating a conflict that ended after the Battle of Boroughbridge.
  - That war named after this man ended with the death of Thomas, the Earl of Lincoln.
  - This man and his same-named father met their end after Roger Mortimer and the "she-wolf" Isabella of France invaded England.
  - For 10 points, name this man who, like Piers Gaveston, was a royal favorite of Edward II. [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser
  - This man wrote of how 'My love is like to ice, and I to fire' in a collection which is prefaced by a letter to Sir Robert Needham.
  - In a poem to his beloved this author claimed that "My verse your virtues rare shall eternize" after stating that "I wrote her name upon the strand" Another of this man's works details the 12 months of the year as described by Colin Clout and his fellow shepherds.
  - In the most famous work by this lover of Elizabeth Boyle and author of Epithalamion [Epi-thal-am-ion] and Amoretti, the sorcerer Archimago tricks the Redcrosse Knight into leaving the lady Una whilst on a quest given to him by Gloriana.
  - For ten points, name this author of The Shepherd's Calendar and The Faerie Queene. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser
  - In a poem by this man, Calidore beheads a man who shaves the beards and hair of passersby while searching for the Blatant Beast. [PWR]
  - In the opening poem of a collection by this man, the speaker imagines lines "Written with teares in harts close bleeding book," which is handled by his lover's "lilly hands." The speaker of another poem by this man proclaims "let baser things devise / To die in dust, but you shall live by fame," after repeatedly writing the name of his lover in the sand. [PWR]
  - A character created by this man slays (*) Error before meeting Fradubio, who had been turned into a tree by the witch Duessa. [PWR]
  - That character, who takes his name from the design on his shield, serves the queen Gloriana.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the sonnet cycle Amoretti, who created the Redcrosse Knight in The Faerie Queene. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser
  - One of this author's poems declares: "Sweet is the Cypress, but his rind is tough / Sweet is the nut, but bitter is his pill".
  - In one poem, he says that his beloved's bosom smells like "a Strawberry bed" when comparing the scent of her kiss to a garden.
  - In another poem, he looks into his beloved's eyes and sees that "Legions of loves with little wings did fly / Darting their deadly arrows fiery bright". [PWR]
  - One of his poems addresses the "Nymphs of Mulla which with careful heed, / The silver scaly trouts do tend full well".
  - Lord Byron's (*) Childe Harold's Pilgrimage employs a stanza form named for this author, which involves eight lines of iambic pentameter followed by one alexandrine line.
  - He wrote a marriage ode for Elizabeth Boyle that is paired with a collection whose pages he addresses by saying: "Happy ye leaves when as those lily hands" handle them.
  - For 10 points, name this English author of the Epithalamion and the sonnet sequence Amoretti. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser
  - This poet anagrammed the name of a detested politician as "Algrind" in a poem where Algrind is killed by an eagle drop-ping a shellfsh on his bald head.
  - The speaker of one of this author's poems eliminates the classical elements one by one when pondering "what substance was the mould" for a woman's beauty, before deciding it was the sky, because "to the heaven her haughty looks aspire." Scholars remain unsure about the true identity of this poet's collaborator "E.K," who wrote an epistle heralding this man as a "new poet" in a book which begins by beseeching: "go, my book, thy self present as Child whose Parent is unkent." This poet admitted that his "soules long lacked foode" in "Happy ye leaves when as those lilly hands." This poet's frst book consists of a set of pastorals tracing the rural life of Colin Clout for twelve months.
  - This poet penned a sequence of eighty-nine sonnets describing his courtship of Elizabeth Boyle.
  - For 10 points, name this 16th-century poet who wrote The Shepheardes Calender and the Amoretti. [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edmund Spenser
  - In one poem by this non-Frost author, he compared his feelings to fire and those of his lover to ice, though they do not temper each other's sentiments. [PWR]
  - This author wrote that "whenas Death shall all the world subdue, / Our love shall live, and later life renew" in a poem in which the speaker's fruitless attempts to write his lover's name in sand are compared to his immortal descriptions of her in verse.
  - He wrote a poem "made in lieu of many ornaments, / With which my love should duly have been decked" and a poem for the (*) Somerset sisters that repeats "Sweet Thames, run softly, till I end my song." He wrote a cycle of poems about his courtship with Elizabeth Boyle using his namesake type of sonnet.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Prothalamion" and Amoretti who also wrote The Faerie Queene. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this collection declares that "One day I wrote her name upon the strand" to open its 75th entry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amoretti):
    Name this collection of 89 poems written as a portrait of its author's courtship with Elizabeth Boyle. This collection is often followed by its author's longer poem Epithalamion.
  Part 2 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    The Amoretti are by this poet of The Shepheardes Calendar, as well as an epic poem whose allegory this poet explained as a "darke conceit" in a letter to Sir Walter Raleigh.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabethan]):
    Spenser's The Faerie Queene was written as an allegory for this monarch. Raleigh was a favorite courtier of this monarch, who names the literary era spanning the latter half of the 16th century.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author stated, "Oh, what a lantern, what a lamp of light / Is thy pure word to me" in a poem that asks God to "show to me thy ways." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mary Sidney [or Mary Herbert; accept the Countess of Pembroke; prompt on Sidney; prompt on Herbert; prompt on Pembroke] (The romance is Philip Sidney's The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia)):
    Name this poet of "O" and "The Doleful Lay of Clorinda." This author, who completed a metrical edition of the Psalms, is the dedicatee of a romance in which two princes disguise themselves to woo the daughters of Basilius.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth I [or Elizabeth Tudor; prompt on Tudor]):
    Mary Sidney's poem "Even Now That Care" praises this person, who many poets, including Sidney, represented as Astraea. A poem by a different author represents this person as the huntress Belphoebe.
  Part 3 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    Belphoebe and Gloriana are characters in this author's six-book epic The Faerie Queene.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Theocritus's ("thee-AHK-rih-tuss's") eighteenth Idyll includes a song in this form in honor of Menelaus ("men-uh-LAY-us") and Helen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: epithalamion ("ep-uh-thuh-LAM-ee-on") [or epithalamium] (The English poem is by Edmund Spenser)):
    Name this genre of Greek poem written for a bride upon her marriage, which takes its name from the word for "bedchamber." An English poem with this title was written in 1594 for the poet's marriage to Elizabeth Boyle.
  Part 2 (ans: carpenters [or workmen; or builders; or tektones andres; accept "raise high the roofbeam, carpenters"]):
    A famous epithalamion by Sappho, which celebrates a bridegroom "taller than Ares," begins with an enthusiastic appeal to these people.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Valerius Catullus):
    This Roman poet, who wrote several imitations of epithalamiaby Sappho, is better known for his agonized love poems to the pseudonymous Lesbia.

[B4] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of one poem wonders if this figure was "by spirits taught to write, / above a mortal pitch" before expressing disappointment that the "fair youth" preferred this figure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Rival Poet (Acheson's book is Shakespeare and the Rival Poet.)):
    Name this character from Shakespeare's sonnets whom some scholars, like Arthur Acheson, claim is a stand-in for George Chapman.
  Part 2 (ans: Edmund Spenser (Gray's article is "Shakespeare's Rival Poet.")):
    Henry David Gray claimed this author was the "rival poet," arguing that the "affable familiar ghost" from Sonnet 86 refers to Ludovico Ariosto, who "misled" this author of The Faerie Queene with "false information."
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Daniel):
    Another candidate for the Rival Poet is this tutor of William Herbert, who may be the "Mr. W.H." in the dedication of Shakespeare's sonnets. This Elizabethan poet wrote the poem Musophilus and the sonnet cycle Delia.

[B5] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's chapter "Be Bold, Be Bold, But Not Too Bold" shows letters between the title character and an aspiring female writer who considers Foxe's Book of Martyrs to be the best book of the 1500s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helen Oyeyemi ("oh-yay-YEM-ee")):
    Name this contemporary British author of Mr. Fox, in which an imaginary muse teaches a writer not to kill off female characters. She also wrote The Icarus Girl and White Is for Witching.
  Part 2 (ans: The Faerie Queene (by Edmund Spenser)):
    In this poem, the lady warrior Britomart sees the phrase "be bold, be bold" above a door in the house of the sorcerer Busirane. Gloriana is this epic's title character.
  Part 3 (ans: Kelly Link):
    In this American author's story "The Summer People," Ophelia sees the phrase "be bold, be bold, but not too bold" in a house occupied by fairies. This magical realist wrote Get in Trouble and Magic for Beginners.

[B6] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Along with Henry Howard, this poet introduced the sonnet into English with reworkings of Petrarch such as "Whoso List to Hunt." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Thomas Wyatt):
    Name this poet who may be reflecting on a romance with Anne Boleyn in a poem that begins, "They flee from me that sometime did me seek / With naked foot, stalking in my chamber."
  Part 2 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    This other Tudor poet introduced interlocking quatrains into the English sonnet in the cycle Amoretti. This poet used their signature nine-line stanza to write The Faerie Queene.
  Part 3 (ans: the blazon [or blason]):
    Shakespeare's sonnet "My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun" is a parody of this other Petrarchian genre. These poems praise a lover's individual features with stock metaphors such as lips like coral and breasts like globes.

[B7] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: By the end of his life, this poet was so embarrassed by the excess sentimentality of his first two books of poetry that he destroyed every copy he could find. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juan Ramon Jimenez [or Juan Ramon Jimenez Mantecon]):
    Name this Nobel laureate and champion of "naked" or "pure poetry." This author gained popularity in the US after the publication of a prose poem about a silver donkey titled Platero y Yo.
  Part 2 (ans: sonnets [or Spenserian sonnets; accept Spiritual Sonnets or Sonetos espirituales]):
    Jimenez wrote a collection of "Spiritual" poems in this form. Poems in the Spenserian type of this form consist of three quatrains and a couplet.
  Part 3 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Jimenez first moved to Madrid after being discovered by this author. This Nicaraguan modernismo author wrote the collection Azul....

[B8] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote that "I could not love thee, dear, so much, / Lov'd I not Honour more" in a poem explaining his decision to fight for Charles I. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    Name this Cavalier poet who fought under George Goring in the Bishops' Wars, which inspired him to write "To Lucasta, Going to the Warres."
  Part 2 (ans: roses [accept "To Lucasta. The Rose"; accept "A Red, Red Rose"]):
    While under Goring, Lovelace wrote another poem dedicated to Lucasta titled for one of these items. Robert Burns wrote a poem about a "red, red" one of these items.
  Part 3 (ans: marriages [or weddings] (The first line is "Sonnet. To Generall Goring" and the second line is "Prothalamion" by Edmund Spenser.)):
    The Bishops' Wars also inspired Lovelace to write a sonnet to Goring about one of these events. Another poem written for one of these events repeats the line "Sweet Thames, run softly, till I end my song."

[B9] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A 1913 article by Edward Payson Morton claims that Robert Aylett, Richard Fanshawe, Henry More, Eirenaeus Philalethes ("eye-ruh-NEE-us phil-uh-LETH-eez"), and Samuel Woodford were the only five authors in the entire 17th century who used this English verse form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spenserian stanza [prompt on Spenser or Spenserian; reject "Spenserian sonnet"]):
    Name this verse form that consists of eight iambic pentameter ("eye-AM-bik pen-TAM-uh-ter") lines rhymed ABABBCBC followed by an alexandrine rhymed C.
  Part 2 (ans: The Faerie Queene):
    Edmund Spenser first used his namesake stanza form in this epic poem. In the first of its six books, Una is accompanied by the Redcrosse Knight.
  Part 3 (ans: The Revolt of Islam (by Percy Bysshe Shelley)):
    This epic poem in Spenserian stanzas was originally titled for its protagonists, Laon and Cythna, who overthrow the tyrant Othman in an allegory for the French Revolution.

[B10] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Richard Neville, 16th Earl Warwick, had an absurdly complicated Coat of Arms. For 10 points each, answer some questions about the families connected by them:
  Part 1 (ans: Clare):
    The quartering 'Or three Chevrons Gules' have been associated since 1141 with this surname, now shared with a Cambridge college. They were earls of Hertford and Gloucester in the 12th and 13th century.
  Part 2 (ans: Despenser [prompt on Spencer]):
    Sharing the fourth quarter with Clare, the Arms associated with this surname figure in the Arms of Winston Churchill and Princess Diana. The 1st Earl of Winchester, a reviled adviser to Edward II, had this surname.
  Part 3 (ans: Lancaster):
    The third quarter shows the Arms of Neville differenced by a label suggesting allegiance with this rival house of the House of York, due to Warwick's descent from John of Gaunt through his grandmother Joan Beaufort.

[B11] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of the twenty-third poem in this sequence laments that "for all that I in many days do weave, / In one short hour I find by her undone," declaring that his lover is the Penelope to his Ulysses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amoretti):
    Name this cycle of eighty-nine Petrarchan sonnets, the first of which begins: "Happy ye leaves when as those lilly hands." It celebrates the love between the poet and his second wife, Elizabeth Boyle.
  Part 2 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    This author of Amoretti allegorized another Elizabeth, the queen, as the mythical Gloriana in his epic poem The Faerie Queene.
  Part 3 (ans: blazon):
    Sonnet 15 of Amoretti, in which the speaker compares his mistress's lips, teeth, and forehead to rubies, pearls, and ivory, is this type of poem praising individual parts of a woman's body. Shakespeare's sonnet "My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun" is another example.

[B12] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The first half of this poem closes with a stanza beginning "Open the temple gates unto my love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Epithalamion):
    Name this poem that begins with a request to the muses to "Help me mine own love's praises to resound." This ode was written to celebrate the poet's marriage to Elizabeth Boyle.
  Part 2 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    Epithalamion is by this Elizabethan poet, and was published together with his sonnet collection the Amoretti, which was also dedicated to Boyle.
  Part 3 (ans: 24):
    Spenser's Epithalamion has this many stanzas, which is also the number of books he originally intended to write of The Faerie Queene, although he fell far short of that total.

[B13] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet dedicated his pastoral poem Colin Clouts Come Home Againe to Sir Walter Raleigh. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    Name this English writer who included Colin Clout in his allegorical epic poem, The Faerie Queene.
  Part 2 (ans: The Redcross Knight):
    This hero of the first book of The Faerie Queene embodies the virtue of Holiness. He avoids succumbing to the temptations of the wicked sorcerer Archimago, and is eventually betrothed to Una.
  Part 3 (ans: Book IV [accept "Book Four"]):
    This book of The Faerie Queene concerns the friendship of Sir Cambell and Sir Triamond. It is preceded by the Book chronicling the story of the lady knight Sir Britomart.

[B14] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Each of the 24 stanzas in this poem, except for the last, ends with a variation of the line "The woods shall to me answer, and my Eccho ring". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Epithalamion"):
    Name this poem that begins by invoking the muses as "Ye learned sisters, which have oftentimes / Beene to me ayding, others to adorne". It was originally included along with the sonnet cycle Amoretti.
  Part 2 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    "Epithalamion" was written by this poet for his marriage to Elizabeth Boyle. He wrote an unfinished epic that represents Elizabeth I as Gloriana, the title character.
  Part 3 (ans: John Skelton [or John Shelton]):
    This author of the poems "Philip Sparrow" and "Speke Parrot" was a tutor to Henry VIII, and he preceded Spenser as Poet Laureate of the U.K. In The Shepheardes Calender, Spenser reused this man's character Colin Clout.

[B15] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This man's namesake crusade sought to free Ghent from the clutches of Antipope Clement VII. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry le Despenser [prompt on le Despenser]):
    Name this "Fighting Bishop" of Norwich who personally led a charge on the Wat Tyler rebels at North Walsham.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard II of England [prompt on Richard]):
    In his later years, Henry le Despenser supported this king, who reigned during the Peasants' Rebellion, against Henry Bolingbroke's claim to the throne. This royal lost, and Bolingbroke became Henry IV.
  Part 3 (ans: the Lords Appellant):
    Richard's reign was marred by the influence of this group of nobles who tried to impeach various of the king's favorites. Thomas of Woodstock was one leader of this group that controlled the Merciless Parliament.

[B16] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem wishes not to be disturbed by things like "house-fyres," "mischivious witches," "hob Goblins," "damned ghosts," or "griesly vultures" during the first night of lovemaking with his new bride. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Epithalamion ):
    Name this poem that was published along with the sonnet sequence Amoretti. It is named for a genre of works written for brides on the way to the marital chamber.
  Part 2 (ans: Edmund Spenser):
    Epithalamion and Amoretti were written by this English author of the Faerie Queene.
  Part 3 (ans: writing his beloved's name in the sand of a beach [or "One day I wrote her name upon the strand"; accept any answer indicating name writing]):
    In Sonnet 75 from the Amoretti, the speaker twice performs this title action, only to have the waves wash away the result, before the speaker tells his lover to "let baser things devise / To die in dust, but you shall live by fame."
