=== STOCK CLUES: Lady Chatterley's Lover ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 37 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Lady Chatterley's Lover
  - In an introduction to a Penguin edition of this novel, Doris Lessing argues for reading it as a powerful statement against World War I. [PWR]
  - This novel's author denounced pirated editions of it in his "A Propos of [this novel]." While trying to make fun of a man's dialect, a character in this novel incorrectly says "Mun I" instead of "Maun ah." A character in this novel is seen standing in a driveway in the middle of the night by the caregiver Mrs.
  - (*) Bolton.
  - The husband of this novel's title character owns the Wragby mansion and is paralyzed from the waist down.
  - This novel begins "Ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically" and was the subject of a landmark 1960 obscenity trial.
  - For 10 points, name this novel about Constance's affair with the gamekeeper Mellors, written by D.H. [GIVE]
  - Lawrence.

[T2] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Lady Chatterley's Lover
  - A character in this novel mentally calls his wife a Bolshevik when she fails to kiss him goodnight after he spends the evening reading Racine  to her in French.
  - That wife in this novel decides that words are what ravish life, after arguing with her husband about Keats's use of the word "ravish" in "Ode on a Grecian Urn." Two characters in this novel have their first romantic encounter when the man comforts the woman after she is overcome with tears while holding a chick.
  - In this novel, a war veteran rants about the necessity of ruling over the local coal miners, shortly before his motorized wheelchair gets stuck on a hill.
  - A man in this novel threads forget-me-nots through the pubic hair of a woman who is married to the paraplegic Sir Clifford.
  - For 10 points, the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors has an affair with the title noblewoman in what novel by D. [GIVE]
  - H.
  - Lawrence?

[T3] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Oliver Mellors [or Oliver Mellors; prompt on Lady Chatterley's lover]
  - This character's hair is very black on his chest, somewhat lighter on his head, and golden in the lower parts of his body.
  - Hilda leaves cigarettes on the floor of this man's house, where he defends his switch between "proper" English and the Derby accent.
  - At the end of the novel he appears in, this man writes that a part of his body named John Thomas says goodbye to Lady Jane.
  - As he looks upon an estate at night, this man is noticed by Ivy Bolton, a woman who takes care of the owner of Wragby.
  - This character is unable to divorce Bertha Coutts and is the father of a child claimed by Duncan Forbes.
  - For 10 points, name this gamekeeper who, in a D. [GIVE]
  - H.
  - Lawrence novel, carries on an affair with Constance Chatterley.

[T4] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lady Chatterley's Lover
  - A character in this novel decides to have a child when she sees an old family cradle.
  - This novel is often accompanied by its author's essay "Apropos of" it.
  - This novel begins, "Ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically." A climactic scene in this novel occurs when a character's wheelchair gets stuck outside in the forest.
  - During a trip to Venice, the protagonist and her sister Hilda meet up with the artist Duncan Forbes.
  - The protagonist of this novel has a failed affair with Michaelis and is anxious to get away from Wragby and her impotent husband.
  - For 10 points, name this novel about the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors's affair with Connie, written by D. [GIVE]
  - H.
  - Lawrence.

[T5] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Lady Chatterley's Lover obscenity trial [or Chatterley affair/brouhaha/thing/whatever; prompt on D.H. Lawrence trial/event/thing/whatever]
  - Following this event, one participant indicated that he would have liked to see how a family could subsist on an income of 600 pounds. [PWR]
  - One side in this event attempted to prevent an object from being sold at three and six. [PWR]
  - Leading up to it, another participant had a stack of paintings ransacked for any traces of pubic hair and was forced to remove thirteen pages from Pansies. [PWR]
  - Raymond Williams and Helen Gardner testified at this event. [PWR]
  - A right of challenge to involve a third female (*) juror was invoked by Gerald Gardiner, the opponent in this event of Reginald Manningham-Buller, who began by cataloging all instances of the words "cock," "shit," "cunt," and "fuck." The central criterion in this event was whether fourteen-year-old girls, wives, and servants could handle the moral depravity of a certain work. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this 1960 obscenity trial, which allowed Penguin Books to continue publishing a D.H. [GIVE]
  - Lawrence novel about a woman's affair with her gamekeeper.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Robbie accidentally presents Briony with a letter containing the c-word to give to Briony's sister. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Atonement (by Ian McEwan)):
    Name this novel in which that letter's vulgarity is one of the reasons that Briony falsely accuses Robbie of sexually assaulting the teenage girl Lola.
  Part 2 (ans: Magpie Murders):
    In this novel by Anthony Horowitz, Susan Ryeland deduces that the name of the fictional detective "Atticus Pund" is an anagram for the phrase "a stupid c-word," which is key to figuring out who killed the author of the Pund books.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    Appearances of the c-word in passages about Connie's "lady Jane" were among the reasons that this D.H. Lawrence novel faced charges of obscenity.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Sexual experiences for the speaker of Phillip Larkin's poem "Annus Mirabilis" began between the end of this book's ban and "the Beatles' first LP." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    Name this book, which Gerald Gardiner defended for Penguin. During the obscenity trial for this book, Mervyn Griffith-Jones' asked whether it was "a book that you would even wish your wife or servants to read?"
  Part 2 (ans: Portnoy's Complaint):
    A 1969 lawsuit over this other Penguin book caused the collapse of Australia's censorship regime. This novel's narrator tells stories of sexual encounters with an Assistant Commissioner of Human Opportunity.
  Part 3 (ans: Roald Dahl):
    In 2023, Penguin began printing unexpurgated versions of this author's books after previously censoring fatphobic language in novels like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman disappointed by her silver-mining husband leaves on horseback to visit the Chilchui natives, but is ritually sacrificed by them in this author's controversial "The Woman Who Rode Away." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: D. H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence] (The story is "The Odour of Chrysanthemums.")):
    Name this author who also wrote about a woman coming to the realization that she never really knew her drunkard husband while cleaning his corpse after earlier suspecting him of being at the Prince of Wales pub.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Rocking-Horse Winner"):
    A woman who has a "hard little place" in her heart "married for love" but had "the love [turn] to dust" in this Lawrence short story. In this story, her son Paul predicts "It's Malabar!" before dying.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    After a war injury renders her husband paralyzed and impotent, Constance has an affair with the groundskeeper Oliver Mellors in this Lawrence novel that was the subject of a landmark obscenity trial.

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The definition of masculinity in postwar British literature was represented by men with this job such as Tom Beeson, the love interest in Martyn Goff's novel The Plaster Fabric. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: soldier [accept guard] (The unnamed character is Septimus Smith from Mrs. Dalloway.)):
    Name this profession of a character whose friendship with Evans has been read as a sign of repressed homosexuality. That man with this former job takes a walk in the park with his wife Lucrezia.
  Part 2 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    The Plaster Fabric is characterized by a repressed nature of sexual writing that was typical in Britain until a 1960 obscenity trial failed to uphold the censorship of this D. H. Lawrence novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Iris Murdoch (The second novel is The Sea, The Sea.)):
    Another repressed 1950s British homosexual is Toby Gashe, who confesses to kissing Michael in this author's novel The Bell. In a novel by this author, Charles Arrowby obsesses over Mary Hartley Fitch while living at a coastal cottage.

[B5] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: 30-20-10, name the novel from lines:
  Part 1 (ans: ):
    "While you live your life, you are in some way an Organic whole with all life. But once you start the mental life you pluck the apple," which is followed by a conversation about Bolshevism.
  Part 2 (ans: ):
    "We've got to live, no matter how many skies have fallen" and "Ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically," both from its first paragraph.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    "We fucked a flame into being," one of its many lines that led this D.H. Lawrence novel to become the subject of a landmark 1960 obscenity trial in the U.K.

[B6] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Not only was this book banned in Australia, but the book describing its British obscenity trial was also banned. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    Name this book about Oliver Mellors and Constance by D.H. Lawrence, which sparked a landmark trial against Penguin Books when the full unexpurgated edition was published.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses):
    This novel was effectively banned in the US after an obscenity trial concerning the protagonist's fantasies about Gerty MacDowell. This novel's protagonist then visits a maternity hospital where Mina Purefoy is giving birth.
  Part 3 (ans: The Well of Loneliness):
    A campaign by the Sunday Express led to a 1928 obscenity trial against Jonathan Cape concerning this book, which follows the life and homosexuality of the upper-class Englishwoman Stephen Gordon.

[B7] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One poem by Phillip Larkin declares that "sexual intercourse began" between the end of the ban on this novel "and the Beatles' first LP". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    Name this D. H. Lawrence novel about the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors' affair with the title noblewoman, which was the subject of a lengthy British obscenity trial against its publisher, Penguin.
  Part 2 (ans: Thom Gunn):
    Phillip Larkin was a member of a literary group called the Movement. This other Movement poet later wrote several elegies to his AIDS-afflicted friends, such as "The Man with Night Sweats." His early collections include The Sense of Movement and Fighting Terms.
  Part 3 (ans: "This Be the Verse"):
    This Larkin poem, which laments "Man hands on misery to man," was inspired by Robert Louis Stevenson's Requiem. It warns "Get out as early as you can, / And don't have any kids yourself."

[B8] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Kindred of the Kibbo Kift, a nutty interwar British group that camped, hiked, and wore skimpy exercise outfits in the name of world peace, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boy Scouts Movement [or Scouting Movement; or Scouts Movement]):
    The founder of the Kibbo Kift, John Hargrave, was disillusioned with the growing militarism of this youth organization founded by Robert Baden-Powell.
  Part 2 (ans: Ernest Thompson Seton [or Ernest Evan Thompson]):
    Hargrave was inspired by this American, who shamelessly drew on Native American stereotypes to create a fake tribe called the Woodcraft Indians. He also wrote the official Boy Scout Handbook.
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Mellors [accept either underlined name; or Lady Chatterley's Lover; prompt on the gamekeeper]):
    Critic David Bradshaw has identified the natural sexuality of the Kibbo Kifters as the inspiration for this literary character, who experiences simultaneous orgasm with his partner on a forest floor in a novel in which he cheats on his estranged wife, Bertha Coutts.

[B9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: During a trial over this book, Mervyn Griffith-Jones embarrassed himself by asking "is it a book... you would wish your wife or your servants to read?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    Name this book that was the subject of a 1960 trial in which Penguin Books was accused of violating the Obscene Publications Act.
  Part 2 (ans: Labour Party):
    Tony Judt's Postwar notes that the "decline of the moral authority of the British establishment" began with the trial, and continued with this party's legalization of abortion under Home Secretary Roy Jenkins. This party lost the 1979 general election to the Conservatives.
  Part 3 (ans: Australia (The magazine was Oz.)):
    A later British obscenity trial targeted a magazine from this country for publishing a schoolboy's drawing of Rupert the Bear with a massive penis. Robert Hughes's The Fatal Shore discusses this country.

[B10] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following about the easing of literary censorship in the United Kingdom, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    Penguin's publishing of an uncensored version of this book sparked a high-profile obscenity trial in the 1960s. The censors didn't much like the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors using "fuck" so much in this novel.
  Part 2 (ans: The Caretaker):
    Cameron Fromanteel Cobbold, serving as Lord Chamberlain, ordered phrases like "she does fuck-all" to be excised from this play in 1960, although that decision was reversed following the release of a 1964 movie version. This play contains a scene where Mick uses a vacuum cleaner to fight the duplicitous Davies, whom his brother invited home.
  Part 3 (ans: Mrs. Warren's Profession):
    One of the arguments for the passage of the Theatres Act of 1968 is that the Lord Chamberlain had in the past banned now canonical plays like this one. George Crofts hints that Frank Gardner might be the title character's son in this play, which was found to be in violation of the Comstock Laws in a 1905 New York performance.

[B11] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work, this author said that he was sure that Moby-Dick was a symbol, but he was not sure of what. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Herbert Lawrence):
    Name this author of Studies in Classic American Literature who also wrote about the title character tormenting his orderly until he snaps and kills him in "The Prussian Officer."
  Part 2 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    In this novel by Lawrence, the title gamekeeper, Oliver Mellors, is a former miner and soldier who is separated from his wife when he begins an affair with Constance.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Rocking-Horse Winner"):
    The protagonist of this Lawrence short story predicts the outcome of races in order to win money for his poor but greedy mother.
