=== STOCK CLUES: Charlemagne ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 83 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 36 found, 108 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Belgium [or Belgique or Belgie or Belgien] (The first line clue is from Pirenne's history of Belgium. The third sentence refers to Mohammed and Charlemagne.)
  - One historian wrote of this present-day country's formation that "Elsewhere, the State has often been the cause of a proper national life; here, it seems to have resulted from it." In Das Kapital, Marx dubbed this country "the paradise of capitalists." A historian from this country wrote "An Economic Contrast: Merovingians and Carolingians" as well as a book that argued an 8th-century ruler would be "inconceivable" without a religious leader.
  - The world's "first universal bank," this country's "General Company," was founded in 1822.
  - Attempts at secularization in this country led to its "School Wars." A revolution that led to the formation of this home country of Henri Pirenne  began after an opera performance of The Mute Girl of Portici in 1830.
  - For 10 points, name this country whose first king was Leopold I. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: the coronation of Charlemagne as Holy Roman Emperor [accept descriptions of the granting the title of Emperor or Augustus to Charlemagne; accept Charles the Great or Karolus Magnus for "Charlemagne"; accept Imperator Romanorum or Kaiser der Romer for "Holy Roman Emperor"; prompt on coronation of Charlemagne and ask "with what title?"; reject answers involving "King of the Romans"]
  - Description acceptable.
  - An agreement that partially recognized this event also confirmed the vassalage of Duke Borna, ending a war that destroyed Tarsatica. [PWR]
  - This event was partially recognized by Michael I Rangabe in exchange for lands in Dalmatia as part of the Pax Nicephori. [PWR]
  - Most modern historians like Henry Mayr-Harting agree this event was first planned at Paderborn after a man was saved from mutilation by Winigis; that planning contradicts (*) Einhard's claim that it took a supposedly humble man by surprise. [PWR]
  - To justify this event, The Annals of Lorsch cites the gender of Irene of Athens and the concept of Translatio imperii.
  - A newly reinstated pope led this event at Christmas Mass in the year 800 at St.
  - Peter's Basilica.
  - For 10 points, identify or describe this event in which Pope Leo III bestowed a higher rank on a Frankish king. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: Charlemagne [accept Karl der Grosse or Karolus Magnus]
  - After an angel strangely orders this man to commit theft, he enters into a partnership with an elfin bandit named Elegast. [PWR]
  - In another story, a quick-tempered hero murders this man's nephew with a chessboard, then escapes with his brothers on a magically extendible horse. [PWR]
  - At the end of a poem, this man responds to a message from the angel Gabriel by tearfully exclaiming, "God, how wearisome my life is!" In that poem, this (*) 200-year-old man fights and kills the emir Baligant. [PWR]
  - Renaud, Archbishop Turpin, and Ogier the Dane are three knights serving this king, who wields the sword Joyeuse.
  - At the conclusion of a poem, this king condemns the traitor Ganelon to death.
  - For 10 points, name this medieval king whose "Twelve Paladins" included chanson de geste hero Roland. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; prompt on Charles]
  - This king was welcomed into Barcelona and Girona (jee-ROH-nah) after sealing an alliance with the wali Sulayman al-Arabi at Paderborn.
  - The Treaty of Corbeil relinquished control of a military buffer zone this king established to the south of Septimania.
  - This king's forces were ambushed while returning from an unsuccessful siege of Zaragoza, leading him to destroy Pamplona in revenge.
  - Basque soldiers attacked this king's army in a battle that killed Eggihard, who was Mayor of the Palace.
  - During a simultaneous 33-year war to convert the Saxons, this king marched into Spain with "all the forces that he could muster" according to the biographer Einhard.
  - A commander under this king who was killed at the Battle of Roncevaux (ruh-OON-suh-voo) Pass was subsequently immortalized in the Song of Roland.
  - For 10 points, the Carolingian dynasty is named for what Frankish king? [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charlemagne [accept Karl; accept Charles the Great; accept Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles]
  - This person gives the magical horse Bayard to Renaud in the story The Four Sons of Aymon.
  - That story is part of the cycle focused on this person in which they are opposed by the descendants of twelve sons of Doon de Mayence.
  - At the end of another story, this person has four horses pull apart the treacherous Ganelon, and this person is supported by twelve paladins in the chansons de geste which make up the Matter of France.
  - This person is summoned by the Oliphant after the deaths of Turpin and Oliver by a hero who 'bursts his temples' blowing it at the Battle of Roncesvalles [RON-seh-VAL].
  - For 10 points, name this Frankish ruler, whose rearguard is defeated in The Song of Roland. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Charlemagne [accept Charles the Great or Charles I or Carolus Magnus or Karl der Grosse]
  - Alessandro Barbero's biography of this ruler explains his genocidal tendencies by suggesting that this ruler only sought to emulate the kings of Israel.
  - The Pseudo-Turpin Chronicle is a source of many anecdotes about this ruler's military ventures, including a battle against the giant Ferracutus.
  - This ruler destroyed the sacred tree of Irminsul and converted the Saxons led by Widukind.
  - Advisors to this ruler such as Einhard and Alcuin of York congregated at his court in Aachen.
  - Pope Leo III crowned this ruler as "Emperor of the Romans" on Christmas Day of 800.
  - For 10 points, name this "great" Frankish king of the Carolingian Dynasty. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great or Carolus Magnus or Karl der Große or Carlo Magno]
  - This man dedicated a building that sports a red-and-white hexagon pattern on its "gatehouse." A building commissioned by this man has a pair of lion's-head knockers on its massive bronze "Wolf's Doors." A classicizing school of artists often named for this man's sister Ada. [PWR]
  - This man commissioned a building that combines later barrel and groin vaults with an earlier design centering on an octagonal dome. [PWR]
  - This man responded to badly garbled reports about supposed (*) Byzantine icon-worship with a book written by his bishop Theodulf of Orleans. [PWR]
  - An art style named for this man introduced the use of "westworks." This man's architect Odo of Metz copied the layout of Ravenna's Basilica of San Vitale for his Palatine Chapel in Aachen.
  - A namesake artistic "Renaissance" was promoted by-for 10 points-what Frankish man crowned Emperor in A.D. 800? [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charlemagne [or Charles I; Charles the Great; prompt on partial answers]
  - A forged history of this ruler was likely written to increase the popularity of the Carmine de Santiago; that work about this ruler was written by Archbishop Turpin. [PWR]
  - Belgian historian Henri Pirenne stated that this leader "would be inconceivable" without Muhammad. [PWR]
  - A biographer of this ruler supposedly eloped to Seligenstadt with this ruler's daughter, Emma, and took inspiration from Suetonius' The Twelve Caesars. [PWR]
  - Under the sponsorship of this ruler, the Historia Langobardorum was written by (*) Paul the Deacon. [PWR]
  - This ruler commissioned four books refuting the 2nd Council of Nicaea by Theodulf.
  - Walafrid Strabo modified a biography of this ruler.
  - Alcuin of York joined this ruler's court, and a biography of him was written by Einhard.
  - For 10 points, name this Frankish ruler whose ambush in Roncevaux Pass provided the basis for the Song of Roland. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charles [or Carolus; accept Charlemagne or Carolus Magnus]
  - A king of this name ordered all bridges to be fortified to prevent Viking raids in the Edictum Pistense. [PWR]
  - Notker the Stammerer collected anecdotes about a ruler of this name who created the Spanish March after his son captured Barcelona. [PWR]
  - A king with this name received the westernmost lands of his father in the (*) Treaty of Verdun. [PWR]
  - A king known as "the Bald" had this name, as did a ruler who employed Alcuin of York and Einhard and made his court at Aachen.
  - For 10 points, give the name of the man crowned Emperor of the Romans by Pope Leo III in 800. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Carloman [listen carefully to answers and make sure not to accept "Charlemagne"]
  - A king of this name, before retiring to the monastery at Monte Soratte, collaborated with St. [PWR]
  - Boniface to conduct the Synod of Estinnes, which addressed confiscated church lands. [PWR]
  - Another king of this name left his Imperial ambitions to his son Arnulf after his conquests in Italy from his Bavarian power base were unrecognized in a power struggle with Charles the Bald. [PWR]
  - Another man of this name left behid a wife and sons who were protected by (*) Desiderius until the conquest of Lombardy. [PWR]
  - The husband of Gerberrga by this name was crowned at Soissons fourteen years after his father insisted on including him in an unction ceremony conducted by Pope Stephen III.
  - For 10 points, give this name of both a brother and a younger son of Pippin the Short, the latter of whose death short-circuited a budding civil war with his brother Charlemagne. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: paladin [or 12 Peers; or knights of Charlemagne before "Charlemagne"]
  - One member of this group is killed by an African prince, and his death is avenged by Turpin. [PWR]
  - One member of this group owned an object whose name means "high and neat" and contains a crystal on one side; that member of this group split the head of his attacker in half before being impaled by a spear. [PWR]
  - One member of this group is sent to defeat the giant (*) Fierabras. [PWR]
  - One member of this group owned a weapon containing the hair of Saint Denis, the blood of Saint Basil, and the tooth of St.
  - Peter.
  - That member of this group is engaged to Aude and dies after blowing his horn at the battle of Roncevaux Pass.
  - For 10 points, name this group of 12 warriors that served Charlemagne, the most notable of whom was Roland. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Charles I]
  - This character visits a palace precariously perched atop a pole after his wife tells him that the Emperor Hugo is more handsome than he is.
  - In another work, he dreams of a dog leaping from a palace and fighting a chained bear.
  - In a novel, this character assigns the wild man Gurduloo to the title character, Agilulf.
  - His son's murderer completes the redemptive tasks he sets with the aid of Oberon.
  - He is described as having a "flowing white beard" in another poem, in which he personally kills Baligant using his sword Joyeuse and orders the execution of Ganelon for conspiring with the Saracens to kill this man's nephew, Roland.
  - For 10 points, name this character served by twelve Paladins in The Matter of France, a historical Frankish king. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great]
  - Henri Pirenne linked this man's rise to that of Muhammad, and he was the subject of anecdotes collected by Notker the Stammerer, the Monk of St Gall.
  - Four math problems about river crossings were devised by this man's court scholar, Alcuin of York.
  - This man's defeat of the Lombards at Pavia and loss to the Basques at Roncevaux Pass were chronicled by his biographer, Einhard.
  - For 10 points, name this man crowned Holy Roman Emperor in Rome on Christmas of the year 800. [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles the Great [or Charlemagne]
  - In a dream, this figure sees a number of large bears make their way into a city in order to free a chained bear cub.
  - This figure is over 200 years old and owns a sword that changes color thirty times per day.
  - This man wears his long white beard on the outside of his armor, prompting his army to do likewise.
  - In a climactic battle, this man kills the emir Baligant and later oversees the execution of Count Ganelon, who had betrayed him.
  - Earlier, God had approached this man and told him to give the sword Durendal to his best warrior, who was unfortunately killed in a surprise attack by King Marsile after bursting his temples sounding the Oliphant to draw his attention.
  - For 10 points, name this world-conqueror, overlord of Oliver and Roland, a French King. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For one phase of this process, the central figure was allowed to recruit knights for a 410-day Italienzug, which local rulers could get out of by paying a tax called the Roman Month. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: coronation of the Holy Roman Emperor [accept Emperor of the Romans or Roman-German Emperor in place of "Holy Roman Emperor"; accept crowning in place of "coronation"; prompt on coronation or crowning by asking "of the holder of which title?"; prompt on King of the Romans, King of the Franks, King in Germania, Roman-German King, German King, King of Italy, or King of Burgundy by asking "what overarching title did that ruler also hold?"]):
    Name this process whose multiple steps took place in locations like Arles Cathedral and Aachen's Palatine Chapel, where St. Stephen's Purse was placed in a niche in the "archstool of the whole realm."
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus; or Karl der Große; or Charles le Grand; prompt on Charles]):
    The destination of an Italienzug was Rome, where the Holy Roman Emperor would be crowned by the pope, symbolically recalling the coronation of this King of the Franks by Leo III on Christmas Day 800.
  Part 3 (ans: Iron Crown of Lombardy [prompt on Crown of Lombardy]):
    By the reign of Henry VII in the 14th century, it was traditional for the Holy Roman Emperor to also be crowned King of Italy in Milan using this object, which supposedly contained a nail from the True Cross.

[B2] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Leadin: To atone for unknowingly killing this ruler's son, Huon de Bordeaux is given impossible tasks like kissing the daughter of the emir of Babylon four times. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne):
    Name this king. The Geste de Doon de Mayence deals with rebellions against this ruler, who is served by paladins like Roland.
  Part 2 (ans: Ogier the Dane):
    This warrior, who wields the sword Cortana, originally fights against Charlemagne but then joins his court. This Danish warrior eventually moves to Avalon with the fairy Morgana.
  Part 3 (ans: Bayard):
    After killing Charlemagne's nephew, the four sons of Aymon flee with this horse, who can adjust his size to match his riders. This horse smashes a stone around his neck and escapes when Charlemagne tries to drown him.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: An illegitimate son with this name had a hunched back from his kyphosis and died as a monk in the Benedictine abbey of Prum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pepin [accept Pippin; accept Pepin the Short or Pepin the Hunchback]):
    Give this name of a mayor of the palace who overthrew Childeric III. That king of this name forced the Lombards to recognize Pope Stephen II's control over the territory around Ravenna through a Donation.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great or Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles or Carolus]):
    Pepin the Short was the father of this Frankish ruler, who was the father of Pepin the Hunchback. This ruler was crowned the first Holy Roman Emperor by Pope Leo III in 800.
  Part 3 (ans: stammer [accept word forms like stammering or the Stammerer; accept stuttering or word forms; accept Louis le Begue; prompt on speech impediment]):
    Pepin the Hunchback's life was recorded by the monk Notker, who was nicknamed "Balbulas" for having this condition. Charles the Fat was succeeded in France by his son Louis, who was nicknamed for this condition.

[B4] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem, this man cruelly tries to kill a horse after its owner murders this man's nephew in a brawl over a chess game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus; or Charles I; prompt on Charles] (The first poem is The Four Sons of Aymon.)):
    Name this man who makes good on several drunken boasts to his rival Hugo in a poem titled for his "Voyage."At the end of a long poem, this man pulls his beard and laments, "how full of toil is my life!" upon being visited in his room by the angel Gabriel.
  Part 2 (ans: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]):
    Charlemagne and his men are valorized in medieval geste du roi ("zhest doo rwah"), such as this 11th-century poem whose title character wields the sword Durendal and an oliphant horn.
  Part 3 (ans: Oberon):
    In a geste du roi, this character helps Huon of Bordeaux atone for killing Charlemagne's son. Christoph Martin Wieland wrote an epic about this character, who in a play has a jealous dispute with his wife over an Indian boy.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Though this script was phased out during the High Middle Ages in favor of the blockier Gothic script, later humanists thought it looked so beautiful they mistook it as being Roman and brought it back. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carolingian Miniscule [or Caroline Miniscule; reject partial answers]):
    Name this script developed under its namesake 8th-century dynasty as part of an effort to standardize the Latin used in the Vulgate Bible.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great or Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles]):
    The efforts to standardize Latin during the Carolingian Renaissance were promoted by this "great" Frankish monarch, who was the first to revive the title of Emperor after the fall of the Western Roman Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: Alcuin of York [or Ealhwine, or Alhwin, or Alchoin]):
    This scholar worked on perfecting Carolingian Miniscule after becoming an abbot in Tours. Charlemagne summoned him to his Aachen court from England.

[B6] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A royal portrait by this artist features a medallion of Raphael's Madonna della Seggiola. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Dominique Ingres ("ANG-ruh")):
    Name this painter of Napoleon I on His Imperial Throne, who also portrayed a woman with an unrealistically long back in La Grande Odalisque.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles or Carolus] (The period is the Carolingian Renaissance.)):
    In the painting, Napoleon holds a scepter that has a statuette of this ruler at the end. This ruler inaugurated an artistic period that produced the illuminated Ebbo Gospels and the Palatine Chapel designed by Odo of Metz.
  Part 3 (ans: Statue of Zeus at Olympia [or Olympian Zeus; accept answers indicating Phidias's sculpture of Zeus]):
    In Ingres's painting, Napoleon's pose is modeled on descriptions of this sculpture. Pausanias claims that this sculpture wore a glass robe and held a figurine of Nike.

[B7] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Eliot Weinberger's book-length essay Angels and Saints is illustrated by the grid poems of this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rabanus Maurus [or Hrabanus Maurus; or Rabanus Maurus Maxentius]):
    Name this 8th- to 9th-century Benedictine monk who wrote Latin-language "figure poems" such as "In honorem sanctae crucis," where the words take the shape of a cross before which the speaker kneels.
  Part 2 (ans: Alcuin of York):
    This man, who wrote a diamond-shaped acrostic poem about the cross called "De Sancta Cruce," mentored Rabanus Maurus in his studies. This scholar developed a minuscule script used by the Holy Roman Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne):
    This man invited Alcuin of York to the court of his royal family. In The Song of Roland, the title character fights in this king's army.

[B8] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Throughout history, leaders have given each other animals as signs of good will. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kingdom of Portugal [the ruler was Manuel I]):
    A ruler from this kingdom gifted Pope Leo X a rhinoceros named Ganda that would later tragically drown on a journey to Rome.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus; or Karl der Große; or Charles le Grand; prompt on Charles]):
    Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid gifted an elephant named Abul-Abbas to this man. According to Einhard, this first Holy Roman Emperor was devastated when it died in the same month as his daughter.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis IX [or Saint Louis; prompt on Louis]):
    This king gave an elephant to King Henry III for his menagerie in the Tower of London. This French king died of dysentery during the Eighth Crusade.

[B9] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the political career of Empress Irene of Athens, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: iconoclasm [prompt on descriptions of banning icons]):
    Irene ended the first period of this Byzantine religious policy that banned the veneration of images. Its second period began after Nikephoros I, who took power by exiling Irene, was killed while trying to invade Bulgaria.
  Part 2 (ans: marrying Charlemagne [accept Charles the Great for "Charlemagne;" prompt on marriage or equivalents; prompt on answers like marrying the Holy Roman Emperor or marrying the Carolingian Emperor by asking "which specific emperor?"; prompt on answers like allying with the Carolingians]):
    Theophanes the Confessor somewhat dubiously claims that when Nikephoros's coup struck, Irene had been on the cusp of politically reuniting the Eastern and Western Roman Empires by taking this specific action.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo [accept Leo III]):
    The third pope of this name may have crowned Charlemagne Holy Roman Emperor specifically to undercut Irene. The third emperor of this name began the first period of Byzantine iconoclasm in 726.

[B10] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This speech's author "helped make Haiti and Cuba a decent place for the National City Bank boys to collect revenues" during the Banana Wars, saying he "might have given Al Capone a few hints." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "War is a Racket"):
    Name this speech by US Marine Corps general Smedley Butler that decried the way American imperialist warfare subsidized and protected profiteering interests, calling for restrictions on naval operations and war funding.
  Part 2 (ans: (Thomas) Woodrow Wilson ):
    This president deployed Butler to Haiti at City Bank's urging. This president eventually reversed course on keeping the US out of WWI after extensive interventions in Latin America during his first term.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne (Massena) Peralte ):
    Wilson sent troops to Haiti to suppress the rebel cacos whose leaders included this Haitian national hero. An iconic photo of this leader's corpse in a Christ-like pose was taken in a poor attempt at American propaganda.

[B11] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: According to Einhard, 4,500 of these people were executed in a single day at Verden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saxons [accept Nordalbingian Saxons; do not accept or prompt on "Anglo-Saxons"]):
    Name these people, who were defeated at the battle of Bornhoved ("born-HER-vet") during an invasion of their homeland that began in 772.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great or Carolus Magnus or Charles I or Karl der Grosse]):
    The Saxons were invaded and subjugated by this king of the Franks, who was later crowned "Emperor of the Romans" by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day, 800 AD.
  Part 3 (ans: Irminsul [prompt on great pillar by asking "what is the original-language term?"]):
    According to the Royal Frankish Annals, Charlemagne destroyed one of these pillar-like structures sacred to Germanic paganism during his Saxon Campaigns. The Nazi amateur archaeologist Wilhelm Teudt proposed that a symbol on the Exernsteine relief resembling a "bent tree" should be interpreted as one of these structures.

[B12] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: The Karaite Jews of Crimea are often viewed as descendants of these people, who controlled the northern branch of the Silk Road from the 7th through 10th centuries. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Khazars ("KUZ-ers") [accept Khazar khaganate]):
    Name these Turkic people who adopted Judaism as the state religion of their khaganate.
  Part 2 (ans: Radhanites [or Radhanim, or ar-Radhaniyya]):
    This mysterious community of multilingual medieval traders, many of whom were Jewish, is sometimes credited with introducing Judaism to the Khazars. The Persian historian Ibn Khordadbeh ("khor-DAHD-beh") records that these tycoons traveled both land and sea routes from the Rhone Valley to China.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne AND Caliph Harun al-Rashid [accept Carolus Magnus or Charles the Great for "Charlemagne"]):
    One known Radhanite is a certain Isaac, who served as a translator on one of these two rulers' embassies to the other. Gifts exchanged by these two rulers include a fancy water clock and the elephant Abbou Abbas.

[B13] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Judith Herrin has suggested that this person's marriage was intended to provide a base in the theme of Hellas from which to convert the Slavs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Irene of Athens):
    Name this ruler, who appointed Tarasios Patriarch, and called the second council of Nicaea. This ruler took sole control of the empire after they had their son blinded in the Porphyry room.
  Part 2 (ans: Iconoclasm [accept word forms such as Iconoclastic; accept descriptions like the banning or destruction of icons]):
    The Second Council of Nicaea was called to reverse this religious policy, promoted by Constantine V and Leo III. This policy's second period ended when Theodora restored images to Hagia Sophia in 843.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne):
    Irene initially negotiated a marriage for Constantine VI with Rotrud, a daughter of this ruler, and later started negotiations with this ruler to enter a marriage with this man before his coronation.

[B14] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In a 1993 essay collected in Medieval Queenship, Janet Nelson examined the "monstrous regiment" of women that surrounded this non-Scottish ruler. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus; or Charles I; prompt on Charles]):
    Name this ruler. In her book King and Emperor, Nelson examines the context behind this ruler's crowning as the first Holy Roman Emperor in 800 AD.
  Part 2 (ans: Bertrada of Laon [or Bertha Broadfoot]):
    One of the women discussed in Nelson's essay is this mother of Charlemagne, who orchestrated his marriage to Desiderata of Lombardy. She also negotiated peace between Charlemagne and his brother Carloman I.
  Part 3 (ans: Einhard [or Eginhard]):
    Though he portrays Bertrada in a positive light, this historian paints Charlemagne's third wife Fastrada as a cruel queen. This historian chronicled the Frankish court in his Vita Karoli Magni.

[B15] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Following this battle, a soldier from the winning side smashed a looted sacred vase, prompting this battle's winning commander to smash the offending soldier's head with an axe a year later. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Soissons ("swah-SAWN")):
    Name this 486 CE battle in which a king of the Franks defeated Syagrius, a "king of the Romans" who ruled a rump state of the Western Roman Empire in Gaul.
  Part 2 (ans: Clovis I [or Clodovechus]):
    This king of the Franks won the Battle of Soissons. This Merovingian king, who issued the Salic Law, supposedly converted to Christianity after calling upon the God of his wife Clotilde at the Battle of Tolbiac.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles I or Charles the Great]):
    In 750, the last Merovingian king of the Franks, Childeric III, was deposed by Pepin the Short, the father of this other Frankish king who was crowned by Leo III as the first Holy Roman Emperor.

[B16] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Charles Homer Haskins introduced the historiographic concept of a "renaissance" of this century. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 12th century [or 1100s]):
    Name this century during which the founding of the Hanseatic League and the University of Paris expanded European trade and science. Henry II of England presided over a time of prosperity during this century.
  Part 2 (ans: water mills):
    The 12th-century renaissance followed an 11th-century boom in building these things. The first joint-stock company was established by a group of Parisian proprietors of these things, whose proprietors had a reputation for unscrupulousness.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne [or Karl der Grosse or Charles the Great or Carolus Magnus; prompt on Charles or Karl or Carolus; prompt on Carolingian minuscule or Caroline minuscule]):
    Another medieval "renaissance" was named for this first Holy Roman Emperor, who was crowned in Aachen ("OCK-in") in 800 CE. This ruler's advisors wrote in his namesake "minuscule" script.

[B17] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: In one epic, this character's wife says that Emperor Hugo is better-looking than him, so he goes to visit Hugo in his fancy rotating palace on a pole. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne):
    Name this character who takes his friend, the elf-knight Elegast, to steal from his traitorous brother-in-law Eggeric van Eggermonde. Many epics, including Morgante, focus around this man's subordinates.
  Part 2 (ans: Roland):
    In medieval folklore, Charlemagne is described in an epic poem titled after "The Song of" this man, his most famous paladin.
  Part 3 (ans: Ganelon):
    This other paladin of Charlemagne betrayed his army to the Muslims and led to the Battle of Roncevaux Pass. For his betrayal, four fiery horses tear him limb from limb.

[B18] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Mythology
     Leadin: Thomas Bulfinch produced a book on this subject that was one of the most popular book in the 19th century United States. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mythology [accept Greek, Roman, or Norse mythology]):
    Identify this general subject, which was also popularly written about by Edith Hamilton in her book subtitled Timeless Tales of Gods and Heroes.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [accept Charles the Great]):
    Bulfinch's mythology devotes the last third of the book to tales of medieval romance, specifically myths about this real life ruler. The Chanson de Geste are a series of epic poems about this man's reign. One of his legendary knights was Roland.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Graves):
    This English mythographer, novelist, and poet also produced widely read retellings of myths in his The Greek Myths. He wrote a book-length essay examining poetic inspiration with regard to the classics in The White Goddess.

[B19] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Theodulf of Orleans implemented his version of this position in the mosaics of his private chapel at Germigny-des-Pres. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: iconoclasm):
    Name this position, the implementation of which by the Isaurian dynasty resulted in some Byzantine artists going west and participating in the Carolingian Renaissance.
  Part 2 (ans: Libri Carolini [or Opus Caroli regis contra synodum; or Charlemagne's Books; or the Carolines]):
    Charlemagne's scholars produced this confused response to the Second Council of Nicaea, which they wrongly believed to have instituted iconoclasm. Pope Adrian I probably never sent this polemic onto Constantinople after he realized it was entirely irrelevant.
  Part 3 (ans: adoptionism):
    The Carolingian archbishop Agobard, who wrote in favor of iconoclasm in his treatise Book on Paintings and Images, also opposed this heresy advanced by Felix of Urgel. Alcuin condemned this Spanish heresy at the Council of Frankfurt.

[B20] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A Half-Uncial derived minuscule named for this ruler became the standard book script of the central Middle Ages, and was used to produce texts such as the Godescalc Evangelistary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne):
    Name this king of the Franks, a son of Pepin the Short, who was crowned Emperor by Pope Leo III in 800.
  Part 2 (ans: Corbie):
    Caroline Minuscule was developed across a number of centres in Francia, but of particular importance was this monastery in Picardy. Famed for its scriptorium, this monastery also developed the earlier 'a-b' script.
  Part 3 (ans: Alcuin):
    Use of Caroline Minuscule was promoted in documents such as the Epistola de Litteris Colendis, authored by this Abbot of Tours. Einhard described this scholar from York as "the most learned man anywhere to be found."

[B21] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about statues that come to life in various mythological systems:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great or Charles I]):
    In a chanson de geste, this emperor and his Paladins travel to the palace of the Byzantine Emperor Hugo, which is held up by statues of living bronze boys, and revolves whenever the wind blows.
  Part 2 (ans: Hector of Troy):
    The poet Benoit de Sainte-Maure wrote a poem in which this prince recovers from his mortal wounds in a room with four living statues; two of them hold magic mirrors, and the other two do acrobatics with an eagle and a satyr.
  Part 3 (ans: Astraea):
    In The Faerie Queene, this virgin goddess makes a statue that comes to life for Artegall. This daughter of Eos is named for her father, and was supposedly the last of the goddesses to live with humans during the Golden Age.

[B22] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote that: "You will find in [this handbook] a mirror in which you can without hesitation contemplate the health of your soul, so that you may be pleasing not only in this world, but to him who formed you out of dust." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dhuoda):
    Name this author who wrote the Liber Manualis as a guide for her son William from whom she was separated. She was notably not a nun.
  Part 2 (ans: Alcuin (accept Flaccusu or Albinus or Ealhwine)):
    Dhuoda makes many references in the Liber Manualis to this York-born scholar who likely wrote the book of Maths riddles, Problems to Sharpen Youths, and who oversaw the palace school in Aachen.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne):
    Alcuin was patronized by this Carolingian King who he often referred to as David. He was crowned on Christmas Day 800.

[B23] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A period known as the Twenty Years' Anarchy preceded the rule of this dynasty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isaurian dynasty):
    Name this Byzantine dynasty whose first ruler, Leo III, banned the worship of religious icons.
  Part 2 (ans: Khazars):
    Leo III's son, Constantine V, was married to a ruler of these people, which is why Constantine V's son, Leo IV, is nicknamed after them. These people's capital, Atil, was sacked in 968.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus; prompt on "Charles"]):
    The decline of the Isaurians coincided with this Frankish leader being crowned the first Holy Roman Emperor by a different Leo III on Christmas Day, 800.

[B24] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The Vlaams Belang party opposes the interests of this ethnic group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walloons [or Walons]):
    Name this ethnic group of historian Henri Pirenne, who tried to prove that the union of this ethnic group and the group to their north was not an accident in a history of the country they live in.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; Karolus Magnus; Karl I; Charles I]):
    Henri Pirenne claimed that this ruler would not have existed without the rise of Islam in a work titled "Mohammed and [this man]." He was also the subject of a biography written by Einhard.
  Part 3 (ans: Carolingian empire):
    Charlemagne founded this Frankish empire, which succeeded the Merovingians.

[B25] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Mythology
     Leadin: The final section of Bulfinch's Mythology is a record of the legends surrounding this ruler. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne):
    Name this king who is signalled by the cry of a hunting horn, but arrive at a battlefield too late to save his nephew from the hands of the treacherous Ganelon.
  Part 2 (ans: Roland):
    In his namesake eleventh-century Song, this nephew of Charlemagne is fatally ambushed by Saracens at the Battle of Roncevaux Pass.
  Part 3 (ans: the Questing Beast):
    The only Saracen member of the Knights of the Round Table is Palamedes, who shares in Pellinore's hunt to slay this chimerical monster.

[B26] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man's first major teacher was the Archbishop Ecgbert, and his letters to Hygbald and Aethelhard provide a major source on the Lindisfarne raid. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alcuin of York):
    Identify this English polymath who oversaw the schooling of Pepin the Hunchback and Louis the Pious as chief royal scholar, as related in a history by Einhard.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus; or Charles the Great; or Charles I]):
    Alcuin of York was the major intellectual force behind the Carolingian renaissance under this son of Pepin the Short, who was crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 800 CE.
  Part 3 (ans: Miniscule):
    Alcuin championed this new script, the predominant one in Europe until about 1200, which used fewer ligatures and put spaces between words. It helped form the basis of modern lower-case, as perhaps suggested by its name.

[B27] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A monk from Corvey Abbey with this name wrote a history of Germany during the reign of Otto the Great. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Widukind [or Widuking]):
    Give this name of a leader who lost thousands of supporters in the Massacre of Verden and who legendarily converted to Christianity after having a vision of the Christ Child during a communion.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles I or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus]):
    Widukind led the Saxons in revolt against this Carolingian king. This "great" king was crowned Holy Roman Emperor by Leo III on Christmas Day.
  Part 3 (ans: Alcuin of York [or Alcuinus; or Ealhwine; or Albinus; or Flaccus]):
    This Englishman, who ran the palace school in Aachen, repeatedly tried to get Charlemagne to stop massacring Saxons and make peace.

[B28] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This title was held by a man who called on Pope Zachary to depose Childeric III. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mayor of the Palace [or Major Palatii]):
    Give this title bestowed upon officers of the Frankish king's household. The holders of this title gained more power during the reigns of the so-called "do-nothing" kings.
  Part 2 (ans: Pepin [or Pepin the Short; or Pepin of Herstal]):
    That aforementioned usurper of Childeric III had this name. A different man of this name from Herstal abolished the title of Mayor of the Palace, instead opting to call himself Duke of the Franks.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Charles I; or Carolus Magnus]):
    This founder of the Carolingian dynasty was Pepin the Short's oldest son. He was crowned Holy Roman Emperor on Christmas Day.

[B29] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man shared power with his brother Carloman and later engaged in military campaigns to spread Christianity, conquering the Lombards, Saxons, and Bavaria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Charles I; or Carolus Magnus; or Karl der Grosse]):
    Identify this Frankish king who was crowned Emperor of the Romans in 800 AD by Pope Leo III.
  Part 2 (ans: Aachen [or Aix-La-Chapelle]):
    Charlemagne commissioned the construction of the octogonal Palatine Chapel in this city. This city's cathedral also contains the cross of Lothair as well as Charlemagne's Throne as was used for many later coronations.
  Part 3 (ans: Frisians):
    Charlemagne put down several revolts of these Germanic peoples who had earlier martyred St. Boniface. Pepin of Herstal defeated their king Radbod at Dorestad though Charles Martel suffered his only defeat to them at Cologne.

[B30] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man was replaced with Fernand de Brinon after he refused to lead a "government in exile" at Sigmaringen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henri Philippe Petain):
    Name this World War I hero who betrayed France by becoming the chief of state of the Vichy regime.
  Part 2 (ans: the Milice):
    Joseph Darnand led this organization, which served as the secret police and anti-Resistance force of the Vichy government.
  Part 3 (ans: the Charlemagne Division [or Charlemagne Regiment]):
    As France began to fall to the Allies, Milice members were allowed to flee to Germany provided they enlisted in the 33rd Waffen-Grenadier-Division of the SS, which was given this name in reference to the idea of Germany and France being united as one Germanic state.

[B31] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Following the death of Pope Paul I, this man supported the candidacy of Antipope Philip. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Desiderius [or Desiderio]):
    Identify this last king of the Lombards who was defeated by an ally of Pope Adrian I.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great or Carolus Magnus or Charles I]):
    Desiderius was defeated by this man, who also married his daughter, Desiderata. He was crowned Holy Roman Emperor by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day, 800.
  Part 3 (ans: Pavia):
    The Lombards had a capital at Ticinum, which is located in this modern day Italian city. A battle named for this city was a massive victory for Charles de Lannoy and elevated Louise of Savoy to the regency.

[B32] 2014 CLEAR (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This work's protagonist is imprisoned due to Gunderic's rumors about his involvement in an assassination with Hardrad; other imprisoned characters in this work include Perto's brother Warnefrit and father Bertoald. F10PE:
  Part 1 (ans: The Days of His Grace [or Hans Nades Tid]):
    Name this novel, a work by Eyvind Johnson, which tells of Perto's youth in Lombardy, including his role in Rodgaud's revolt, the loss of his love Angilperta, and his life as a scholar, like his uncle Deacon Anselm.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus or Charles the Great or Charles I]):
    A young Perto hopes to kill this man, the title character of The Days of His Grace, but becomes a teacher at the royal school of this Frankish king at Aquisgranum. This son of Pepin the Short also appears in The Song of Roland.
  Part 3 (ans: Moon [or Luna]):
    Perto dreams that he has been taken to, then barred from, this place, which Adaloald visits in a homemade flying machine. Lucian's crew travels here, where they witness a war against the King of the Sun in A True Story.

[B33] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: In the Massacre of Verden, he butchered over 4,000 Saxons who refused to convert to Christianity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Charles I; prompt on "Charles"]):
    Name this son of Pepin the Short who united much of Western Europe as the king of the Franks. After Desiderius tried to seize lands in Italy, he launched a successful campaign against the Lombards.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo [accept Leo III; accept Leo X]):
    Charlemagne was crowned emperor of a new Roman empire by the third pope of this name on Christmas Day in 800. A different pope of this name attacked Martin Luther in the bull Exsurge Domine.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Pirenne [accept Pirenne Thesis]):
    According to the thesis promulgated by this Belgian historian, the development of trade and the rule of Charlemagne were only made possible in Western Europe because the emerging Arab states cut off trade with the eastern Mediterranean.

[B34] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: He supported his cousin Pepin II as King of Aquitaine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lothair I):
    Name this son of Louis the Pious who was defeated by his brothers Charles the Bold and Louis the German at the Battle of Fontenay.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles I; or Charles the Great; or Charles le Grand; or Carolus Magnus ; or Karl der Grosse; prompt on Charles]):
    Lothair received Italy and other regions from the Treaty of Verdun, which divided the kingdom of this grandfather of Lothair. This man was crowned by Leo III in Rome in 800 CE.
  Part 3 (ans: Oaths of Strasbourg):
    Prior to the Battle of Fontenay, Charles the Bold and Louis the German swore allegiance to each other in this document.

[B35] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: At the Capitulation of Paderbon, this man forced the Saxons to convert to Christianity and imposed the death penalty for a long list of pagan rituals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus; or Charles the Great]):
    Name this King of the Franks who also defeated the Avars and invaded Italy to defeat the Lombards.
  Part 2 (ans: Widukind [or Wittekind]):
    Charlemagne was opposed by this pagan leader of the Saxons, who fought a bitter 8-year war against the Franks. He was captured and forced to convert, but later became a symbol of German independence.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Boniface):
    Earlier efforts at converting the German pagans were led by this bishop, who famously chopped down a sacred oak. He was later martyred in Frisia during a Viking raid.

[B36] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these characters from the Song of Roland.
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great]):
    Roland serves this monarch at the Battle of Ronceveux Pass. He possesses a sword that can change colors, and fights alongside his twelve Peers.
  Part 2 (ans: Ganelon):
    Charlemagne orders Roland to fight this knight, who betrays the Franks after being chosen to send a message to the Saracens. His friend Pinabel is defeated in trial by combat, and he is subsequently killed in a duel by Roland.
  Part 3 (ans: Blancandrin):
    This counsellor of Marsile masterminds a false peace treaty between the Saracens and the Franks, and plots the ambush at Ronceveux Pass with Ganelon. He is characterized as the wisest of the pagans.
