=== STOCK CLUES: Meier ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 "Questions Based on Wikipedia Links Ophir Sent Me" (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Biedermeier [prompt on German romanticism, neoclassicism, or bourgeois realism]
  - A bouquet type named after this style features flowers of different colors arranged in concentric circles. [PWR]
  - An old man stands atop a ladder peering at a volume on "Metaphysics" in a painting from this period, The Bookworm. [PWR]
  - The protagonist is driven by an Alpine thunderstorm to the mysterious "Rosenhaus" in a bildungsroman often considered representative of this style, Indian Summer. [PWR]
  - Named for a fictional (*) poet satirized in the journal Flying Leaves, this style's most enduring manifestation is its namesake light-wood-based furniture.
  - The art of Carl Spitzweg and the fiction of Adelbert von Chamisso  and Adalbert Stifter  are from this period, which corresponds to the American Federal Style and the French Empire Style.
  - For 10 points, name this post-Romantic, bourgeois German art style. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Answer: resonance [accept homoallylic resonance; accept delocalization until "delocalized" is read; prompt on electron pushing or conjugation or rearrangement] (The DMF-catalyzed acid chloride preparation is commonly used but does not have a name. It can be described as a Vilsmeier-like reaction.)
  - It's not a solvent effect, but this phenomenon explains the enhanced reactivity of DMF's carbonyl  group, allowing it to attack oxalyl  chloride in DMF-catalyzed preparations of acid chlorides.
  - Anchimeric assistance facilitates substitution of homoallylic positions because of this phenomenon of the homoallylic carbocation, which relates it to an electron-deficient cyclobutane.
  - Common patterns of this phenomenon include (*) charges or lone pairs next to a pi system, such as in amides, whose planar structure is justified by this phenomenon. [PWR]
  - The idea that both bonds in ozone have a bond order of 1.5 can be explained by this phenomenon.
  - For 10 points, a single double-headed arrow can be used to represent what phenomenon that describes delocalized electrons with structures that do not actually interconvert? [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Science
     Answer: Vilsmeier-Haack Reaction
  - An azide-nitrile coupling using a variation of this reaction generates an organocatalyst in situ from NMP and was developed by Kappe and Cantillo. [PWR]
  - Ushijima's modification of this reaction performs a workup using idoine in ammonia to synthesize nitriles. [PWR]
  - This reaction performs the same chemical transformation as the hexamine-using Sommolet reaction and the Reimar-Tiemann reaction. [PWR]
  - This reaction only works on electron-rich reactants, and for anthracene, it gives exclusive addition to the 9-position. [PWR]
  - This reaction's namesake reagent is generated in situ and consists of an (*) iminium ion single bonded to a chlorine atom, and that is generated after a lone pair on a carbonyl group attacks an electron-poor phosphorous center. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this doubly-eponymous reaction in which an arene is formylated using phosphorus oxychloride in dimethylformamide. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: When working for Carl Zeiss, this scientist developed his namesake refractometer by placing liquid between illuminating and refracting prisms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ernst Abbe ("AH-buh")):
    Name this German physicist. A number named for this scientist is a measure of a material's dispersion.
  Part 2 (ans: Sellmeier equation):
    This equation shows the empirical relation between refractive index and wavelength and is used for a more general description of dispersion in lieu of the Abbe number. This equation uses namesake B and C coefficients.
  Part 3 (ans: visible spectrum [or vision range; or visual spectrum; prompt on optical spectrum]):
    The Abbe number calculated from the Fraunhofer F, C and d spectral lines is only applicable in this band of the electromagnetic spectrum, which lies between infrared and ultraviolet.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: This quantity is directly proportional to the electric field by the Pockels effect. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: refractive index [or index of refraction; prompt on n]):
    Name this dimensionless quantity, which shows how much light bends in a medium. This quantity can be calculated by taking the ratio of the speed of light in two different media.
  Part 2 (ans: Kerr effect):
    Unlike the Pockels effect, this effect asserts a linear relationship between the refractive index and the square of the electric field. This effect induces birefringence in some materials.
  Part 3 (ans: Sellmeier equation):
    To assess the dispersion of light in materials, this empirically derived equation states that vacuum wavelength is related to the refractive index. This equation is a modified version of Cauchy's transmission equation.

[B3] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This period is named for the fictitious nobleman Gottlieb, who was used as a pseudonym to write parodic poems about contemporary taste for the magazine Fliegende Blatter ("FLEE-gen-duh BLEH-tur"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Biedermeier period):
    Give this term for the period of cultural history between the Vienna Congress and the Revolutions of 1848, exemplified by the tastes of the rising Austrian middle class in furniture and interior design.
  Part 2 (ans: Klemens von Metternich):
    Culture in the Biedermeier period was heavily influenced by the censorship perpetrated by this Austrian statesman, who resigned as Chancellor during the Revolutions of 1848.
  Part 3 (ans: Tsar Alexander I [prompt on Tsar Alexander]):
    In a letter to this person, Metternich included the essay "Confession of Political Faith," which defends censorship by saying "We are certainly not alone in questioning if society can exist with the liberty of the press." This person was encouraged to support Metternich's ideas by the spiritual adviser Barbara von Krudener.

[B4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Delta Blues songs by Tommy Johnson and Ishmon Bracey provide evidence that this policy led to outbreaks of "jake leg" paralysis from Jamaica ginger. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Prohibition [accept the 18th Amendment; accept temperance; accept banning alcohol or equivalents; accept the Volstead Act]):
    Identify this policy enforced by Georgia Hopley and the master of disguise Agent Daisy Simpson. This policy was flouted by Vermont's Hilda Stone, Chicago's "Moonshine Mary," and other bootleggers.
  Part 2 (ans: The Bahamas [or Commonwealth of the Bahamas; accept the Lucayan Archipelago; prompt on the West Indies; do not accept or prompt on "Antilles"]):
    During Prohibition, John Ashley, Gertrude "Cleo" Lythgoe, and Bill McCoy smuggled Scotch and rum from Bimini in this British colony. Enslaved Virginians revolted and sailed to this archipelago in the Creole case.
  Part 3 (ans: Meyer Lansky [or Meier Suchowlanski; accept "The Mob's Accountant"]):
    This mobster ran casinos in The Bahamas and Cuba before fleeing the Cuban Revolution. This Murder, Inc. leader and Bugsy Siegel joined Lucky Luciano's Italian mafia in the multi-ethnic National Crime Syndicate.

[B5] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man's grandson Gary Rapoport expressed interest in receiving compensation for the seizure of the Hotel Riviera, from which this man made three million dollars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Meyer Lansky [or Meier Suchowlanski]):
    Name this member of the Jewish mob, nicknamed the "Mob's Accountant," who took over Bugsy Siegel's Flamingo hotel after convening America's crime bosses to the Havana Conference alongside Lucky Luciano.
  Part 2 (ans: Fulgencio Batista [or Fulgencio Batista y Zaldivar; or Ruben Zaldivar]):
    Lansky served as an unofficial "gambling minister" to this president of Cuba, whose overthrow in the 1959 revolution led to the nationalization of Cuba's casinos.
  Part 3 (ans: Harry Jacob Anslinger):
    This leader of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics had Harry S. Truman block all shipments of prescription drugs to Cuba upon learning of Luciano's presence there. This notorious racist published several "gore files" detailing crimes that were supposedly caused by marijuana usage.

[B6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A wall inscribed with the Res Gestae is the only remaining element of Vittorio Ballio Morpurgo's 1937 design for this pavilion, whose glass walls are filled with argon to filter incoming light. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Museum of the Ara Pacis (AH-rah PAH-kis) [or Museo dell'Ara Pacis]):
    Name this museum whose travertine-plated white exterior features a low-slope staircase. Its namesake object has a frieze of garlands hanging from bucrania, as well as a panel depicting a goddess flanked by a swan and a dragon.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Meier):
    This American architect designed both the new Ara Pacis museum and the Getty Center, whose white colors are typical of his style. His first all-black building, a glass residential tower, is under construction at 685 First Avenue.
  Part 3 (ans: Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain):
    Meier used a sleek white design for this city's contemporary art museum MACBA, which is called "the pearl" due to its contrast with the nearby Barri Gotic (bah-ree GOH-teek). This city is home to Antoni Gaudi's Sagrada Familia and Park Guell.

[B7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about architects' predilections for various materials and colors.
  Part 1 (ans: glass [accept Glass House]):
    Philip Johnson liked this material so much he designed for himself a steel-framed personal residence named for it. He was influenced by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe's use of it in the Farnsworth House.
  Part 2 (ans: concrete):
    Brutalist architecture makes heavy use of this material, deriving its name from a term used by Le Corbusier referring to its "raw" manifestation.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Meier):
    This architect loves using the color white for the exteriors of his buildings, including Barcelona's Museum of Contemporary Art and New Harmony's Atheneum.

[B8] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect designed a house with tubed white supports and large windows that bursts from a dense treeline. That house sits on a ridiculously steep slope in Michigan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Meier):
    Name this architect whose trademark white exteriors also appear on Frankfurt's Museum of Decorative Arts and the Sandra Day O'Connor Courthouse in Phoenix. He recently completed Tel Aviv's imposing Rothschild Tower.
  Part 2 (ans: The New York Five):
    Meier is a member of this group of architects, which came to be seen as the major embodiment of modernism after a contentious MOMA meeting and study. It also includes Michael Graves and Peter Eisenman.
  Part 3 (ans: Bauhaus (rhymes with cow house) 8):
    When Richard Meier first moved to New York, he worked for Marcel Breuer, who created the famed Wassily Chair while on the faculty of this institution founded by Walter Gropius.

[B9] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Science
     Leadin: Evidence of this phenomenon at mid-oceanic ridges confirmed the theory of seafloor spreading. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: geomagnetic reversal [accept equivalent descriptions like the Earth's magnetic field flipping poles; prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this process, recent examples of which include the Brunhes-Matuyama and Laschamp events. It divides the geologic time scale into periods known as chrons, and its historical distribution implies stochastic behavior.
  Part 2 (ans: geomagnetic excursion):
    This term refers to a partial or total reversal of the Earth's magnetic field that lasts only a few thousand years. The Laschamp and Pringle Falls events are considered examples of these happenings.
  Part 3 (ans: Glatzmeier-Roberts model [either order is fine]):
    This model, named for its two formulators, is the standard computer simulation used for studying geomagnetic reversals. It is a time-dependent numerical solution of the 3-D MHD equations describing a self-sustaining dynamo.

[B10] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The east face of this monument features a female warrior sitting on a pile of weapons, and a relief of Faustulus encountering two young boys under a tree is shown on its west wall. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ara Pacis Augustae [or Altar of Augustan Peace]):
    Name this monument, built to commemorate a certain emperor's return from Spain and Gaul, which was situated on the east end of the Campus Martius.
  Part 2 (ans: priests [do not accept "prophets"]):
    On the north face of the Ara Pacis, a procession is led by a group of these people, who were known as flamines. In another sculpture, one of them named Laocoon is strangled by snakes along with his sons.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Meier):
    This American architect designed a museum to house the Ara Pacis in Rome. He also designed the Getty Center in Los Angeles, and is seemingly obsessed with the color white.

[B11] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One author from this movement wrote about a man that sells his shadow in Peter Schlemihl. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Biedermeier):
    Name this literary movement of 19th century Germany which counted Adelbert von Chamisso as one of its members. It favored socially conservative, didactic and reserved qualities in its literature.
  Part 2 (ans: World War 2 [or WW2 or obvious equivalents.]):
    The Germanic literature movement known as "rubble literature" aesthetically depicted the ruins of Germany after this conflict. The Diary of Anne Frank concerns a woman who died during this war.
  Part 3 (ans: Weimar Classicism):
    Christoph Martin Wieland and Goethe are part of the literary movement named after this city. The classicism of this city was inspired by Schiller's attempt to integrate classical humanism into a new poetic movement.

[B12] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In the fourth installment of the series that it can be obtained in, it adds one health and one happiness, though in the other games it only increase your score. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Future Tech technology [prompt on Future Technology because things have names]):
    Name this advancement that can be endlessly researched when the science tree is maxed out. In the fourth and fifth installments, quotations from Dan Quayle and George W. Bush accompany its completion.
  Part 2 (ans: Sid Meier's Civilization series):
    Future Tech is found in this series of Sid Meier games, whose fifth entry has an expansion called Gods and Kings. You play as a ruler of one of the namesake groups from the dawn of time until victory or defeat.
  Part 3 (ans: A planet in the Alpha Centauri system [or Chiron; grudgingly accept Planet especially if it's a joke guess because that's what SMAC calls it]):
    Being able to research Future Tech means that you can win with a Science Victory, since you can build all the parts of a spaceship to reach this location. Alien Crossfire is an expansion to a game set in this place.

[B13] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One museum in this city is uniquely accessed via tram and holds paintings like Van Gogh's Irises. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Los Angeles, California [or LA]):
    Identify this city home to the Getty Center and Getty Villa. Frank Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall is also located in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Meier):
    The Getty Center was designed by this Pritzker-winning American architect, also known for the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, the Athenaeum in New Harmony and a namesake Model Museum on Long Island.
  Part 3 (ans: Westbeth Artist Community [or Westbeth Artists Housing]):
    Diane Arbus and Gil Evans are two of the many artists who have lived in this low-cost housing complex in Manhattan's West Village, which was revamped from a former Bell Telephone labs building by Richard Meier.

[B14] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Sometimes, Americans write history books. Answer some questions about that for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Meier Schlesinger, Jr.):
    This man wrote a memoir-esque history of the Kennedy administration called A Thousand Days before criticizing Nixon in The Imperial Presidency.
  Part 2 (ans: A People's History of the United States):
    Chapters of this ubiquitous survey text include "The Intimately Oppressed," about white women before the Civil War, and "Self-Help in Hard Times," about deportations of Communists. It begins from the perspective of Arawaks spotting Columbus's ship and was written by Howard Zinn.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene D. Genovese):
    This ex-Marxist historian of the South examined that region's Agrarian literary movement in The Southern Tradition. He posited that Africans from temperate zones had trouble adjusting to the rigid "clock time" of slavery in his Roll, Jordan, Roll: The World the Slaves Made.
