=== STOCK CLUES: Undset ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sigrid Undset
  - This author wrote of a woman who is sent to Nonneseter ["NON-uh-setter"] on account of a rumor about her, her foster-brother, and the attempted rapist Bentein. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author violates custom by naming her child after her living husband. [PWR]
  - Simon Darre ends up with the protagonist's sister Ramborg in a cycle by this author whose second book is set at the estate of (*) Husaby. [PWR]
  - Despite her pregnancy, the protagonist of a novel by this author wears the traditional virgin's bridal crown during her wedding to Erlend Nikulausson.
  - A cycle by this author that consists of the novels The Wreath, The Wife, and The Cross depicts the life of a nobleman's daughter in medieval Norway.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the trilogy Kristin Lavransdatter. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Norway [or Kingdom of Norway; or Kongeriket Norge] (The first two sentences are from Sigrid Undset's Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.)
  - In a novel from this country, the protagonist breaks local custom by naming a child after her still living husband. [PWR]
  - That character from this country wears a golden wreath at her wedding to an excommunicated man, despite not being a virgin. [PWR]
  - In another novel from this country, the unnamed protagonist is rejected from being a fireman because he wears glasses. [PWR]
  - In that novel, the narrator meets Ylajali ["ee-lah-yah-lee"] in a park and later decides to leave this country to join the crew of a ship. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of that novel from this country ponders eating his (*) pencil while succumbing to the title condition. [PWR]
  - The author of Hunger was from this country, as was an author who wrote a play in which Helen Alving's orphanage is burned down.
  - For 10 points, name this home country of Knut Hamsun and the author of Ghosts, Henrik Ibsen. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sigrid Undset
  - This author, who wrote a controversial early novel that began with the line "I have been unfaithful to my husband," created two characters who were betrothed as children, possibly as a joke, which they take seriously. [PWR]
  - This author of Fru Marta Oulie wrote about Olav, who cannot confess his guilt about killing his wife's lover, as well as a protagonist who loses the farm Husaby because her husband plotted to overthrow the king. [PWR]
  - That sister of Ramborg dies of plague in a (*) convent after she is seduced by Erlend Nikulausson, but still wears the title golden object to her wedding. [PWR]
  - This author of The Master of Hestviken wrote a trilogy consisting of The Wreath, The Wife, and The Cross about a 14th-century knight's Catholic daughter.
  - For 10 points, name this Norwegian Nobel-prize-winning author, the creator of Kristin Lavransdatter. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character violates a taboo by naming one of her eight sons after her husband, who dies in an attempt to defend this character from charges of adultery. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kristin Lavransdatter [or Kristin Lavransdatter]):
    This character hides her pregnancy so she can wear a bridal wreath during her wedding, a privilege reserved for virgin brides.
  Part 2 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    Krsitin Lavransdatter is the namesake of a trilogy of historical novels by this author, which begins with The Wreath.
  Part 3 (ans: Norway [or Kingdom of Norway; or Kongeriket Norge; or Kongeriket Noreg]):
    Although born in Denmark, Sigrid Undset spent her life in this country, which was also the home of Henrik Ibsen.

[B2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character breaks off her betrothal to Simon to marry Erlend, who is later killed in a skirmish by a spear to the groin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kristin Lavransdatter [prompt on Lavransdatter]):
    Name this character who moves back to her parents' farm after their death. This character leaves that farm to tend to the sick in a convent at the end of her last appearance.
  Part 2 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    This author chronicled medieval life in her historical trilogy about Kristin Lavransdatter, which consists of the novels The Wreath, The Wife, and The Cross.
  Part 3 (ans: Norway [or Kingdom of Norway; or Kongeriket Norge] (The playwright is Henrik Ibsen.)):
    Undset grew up in this country whose other authors have included Knut Hamsun and the playwright of Hedda Gabler.

[B3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a scene in which a woman hides her pregnancy at her wedding to Erlend, while wearing a bridal crown symbolizing virginity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    Name this author of the Master of Hestviken tetralogy. Tiina Nunnally translated this author's novels The Wreath and The Wife.
  Part 2 (ans: Kristin Lavransdatter):
    A woman with this first name and the surname Lavransdatter titles a trilogy by Undset. That woman with this first name dies of the Black Plague in the novel The Cross.
  Part 3 (ans: stream of consciousness [prompt on interior monologue]):
    Charles Archer's original English translation axed many modernist passages from the Lavransdatter trilogy, including several in which Undset used this narrative device that directly renders an uninterrupted "flow" of thoughts and feelings.

[B4] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character attempts to portray "burning brains" in his Allegory of a Conflagration in a Bookshop after fantasizing about refuting "Kant's sophistries" in a treatise titled "Philosophical Cognition." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the protagonist of Hunger [accept any answer referring to the writer from Hunger or the narrator of Hunger; or answers referring to the hungry man from Hunger]):
    Identify this unnamed character, who repeatedly tries to sell articles to a newspaper editor referred to as the "Commandor." This character plans to write about a God-hating prostitute in his one-act play The Sign of the Cross.
  Part 2 (ans: August Strindberg):
    As a Scandinavian novel from the 1890s about a young writer wandering around a city, Knut Hamsun's Hunger could be grouped with this Swedish author's Inferno. He also wrote the play Miss Julie.
  Part 3 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    Like the narrator of Hunger, this real-life author used medieval Norway as the setting for a work titled for the Cross. The Cross, The Wreath, and The Wife make up her trilogy about Kristin Lavransdatter.

[B5] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about depictions of feminist utopias, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Charlotte Perkins Gilman (That story is "The Yellow Wallpaper.")):
    Three bumbling male explorers discover a peaceful all-female society in this author's novel Herland. She wrote a story about a woman who hallucinates after being prescribed "rest cure" by her husband.
  Part 2 (ans: insane asylum [or mental institution; or psychiatric hospital; prompt on hospital]):
    In Marge Piercy's Woman on the Edge of Time, Connie Ramos communicates with a future devoid of hierarchy from within one of these places. Ken Kesey's novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is set in one of these places.
  Part 3 (ans: Norway [or Kingdom of Norway] (That series is Sigrid Undset's Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.)):
    The boy Petronius attempts to upheave a matriarchal society comprised of "wim" and "menwim" in Egalia's Daughters, by an author from this country. A series of novels from this country center on a headstrong Catholic woman during the Middle Ages.

[B6] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After returning from military service in Denmark, one character in this work kills his wife's lover, puts his body in a cabin, and burns down the cabin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Master of Hestviken (or Olav Audunsson i Hestviken)):
    Name this tetralogy centering on Olav and Ingunn, set largely on the title estate in the 13th and 14th centuries. Its volumes include The Axe and The Snake Pit.
  Part 2 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    The Master of Hestviken is a work by this Nobel Prize-winning author of Kristin Lavransdatter.
  Part 3 (ans: Norway (or Norge)):
    Undset was a writer from this Scandinavian country, whose other authors have included Knut Hamsen and Henrik Ibsen.

[B7] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of this novel's epilogue shoots its original narrator in the face in a so-called "hunting accident" prompted by jealousy over a half-Tamil girl named Maggie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pan):
    Identify this 1894 novel that depicts the course of a relationship between Edvarda Mack and Lieutenant Thomas Glahn, who has a dog named Aesop. It was written by Knut Hamsun.
  Part 2 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    Hamsun's Nazi sympathies probably wouldn't've endeared him to this Danish-Norwegian woman, a prominent anti-Nazi who wrote the four-volume Master of Hestviken and the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Henrik Johan Ibsen):
    Hamsun, Undset, and their countryman Bjornstjerne Bjornson all won Nobel prizes, unlike this chump, whose non-award-worthy plays include Hedda Gabler, The Master Builder, and A Doll's House.

[B8] 2014 CLEAR (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Late in this novel, Cesca admits that she was unable to sleep with her husband, Ahlin, whom she only married after her former lover Hans Hermann, began pursuing her again. F10PE:
  Part 1 (ans: Jenny):
    Name this novel, whose title character is impregnated by Gert, the father of her former fiance, Helge Gram. The title artist of this novel ultimately kills herself after Helge rapes her, declaring that she is finally his.
  Part 2 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    Jenny is an early novel by this Norwegian author, also known for her later works about medieval Scandinavia, including Gunnar's Daughter and Kristin Lavransdattar.
  Part 3 (ans: Rome, Italy):
    Much of Jenny is set in this city, where Helge meets Jenny on his first day and where she kills herself after Helge rapes her. This city is also the setting of a namesake "Spring of Mrs. Stone", and Livy wrote a history of it.
