=== STOCK CLUES: Émile Zola ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 49 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 47 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]
  - A painting from the end of one artist's "dark period" shows this person in red facing away from the viewer as he writes with a quill while a reading man in white faces the opposite direction.
  - As children, this person, a future painter, and Jean Baille made up a group known as The Inseparables, who would take long walks near the Tholonet dam. [PWR]
  - This person sits on a mat in white robes while Paul Alexis reads aloud in a portrait completed after its artist returned to Paris from (*) Aix. [PWR]
  - This person nicknamed Marie-Hortense Fiquet "the ball" for her round face.
  - This writer holds one of his books while seated in profile next to a Japanese folding screen and a reproduction of Olympia in Eduard Manet's portrait of him.
  - For 10 points, what friend of Paul Cezanne fictionalized him in the novel The Masterpiece, part of his Les Rougon-Macquart series? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]
  - This author depicted Octave, a widower who expands his wife's silk shop into a department store named The Ladies' Paradise, in a sequel to a novel whose title has been translated by Henry Vizetelly as Piping Hot.
  - In a novel by this author, a woman who has a stroke is unable to report the murder of a character who bites a man on the neck before drowning.
  - A character created by this author meets the anarchist Souvarine  in a novel set in "Le Voreux"  This author, who wrote a novel in which a character kills Catherine's abusive lover Chaval while trapped in a pit, created the murderer Therese Raquin .
  - Etienne Lantier  leads a strike at the Montsou mines in this author's novel Germinal.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Rougon-Macquart  series, who defended Alfred Dreyfus in the letter "J'Accuse...!" [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: the Dreyfus Affair [or l'affaire Dreyfus; accept equivalents, such as Dreyfus Case or Dreyfus Trials] {The author referred to throughout the question is Emile Zola.}
  - This event directly inspired a novel in which Brother Gorgias sexually assaults and murders a boy, while the teacher Marc Fremont's quest for the truth costs him his job and his marriage. [PWR]
  - A book by Michael Rosen partly titled "Love, Literature" and this event details how it caused an author to live on the fifth floor of the Grosvenor Hotel in a self-imposed exile in London.
  - This event inspired Truth, the third of the four planned entries in the series The Four Gospels. [PWR]
  - Conspiracy theorists alleged foul play related to this event in the (*) death of an author and his wife Alexandrine from carbon monoxide poisoning nominally caused by a blocked chimney flue. [PWR]
  - The newspaper The Dawn published a letter by a leading author and critic claiming that Ferdinand Esterhazy was guilty of espionage in this event.
  - For 10 points, Emile Zola's open letter "J'Accuse...!"  attacked the antisemitism surrounding what event? [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]
  - In an oft-quoted formulation, this critic defined a work of art as "a corner of creation, seen through a temperament." Theodore Reff proposed that a scene from a work by this author is depicted in the ominous painting Interior, in which a man in shadow leans back against a bedroom door.
  - In a seated profile of this man at his cluttered desk, a cut-off reproduction of Velazquez's Los Borrachos is framed alongside an Utagawa School print of a sumo wrestler.
  - Edgar Degas's The Rape probably depicts a novel by this writer, who lost a contract with L'Evenement after writing articles on the 1866 Salon that provided early praise for Edouard Manet.
  - Paul Cezanne broke off his childhood friendship with this writer after he portrayed Cezanne as the insane protagonist of The Masterpiece, Claude Lantier.
  - For 10 points, name this writer who created the prostitute depicted in Manet's painting, Nana. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Emile Zola <LW>
  - In one work by this author, Lalie dies after being beaten by her father, despite trying to look after her little brother and sister.
  - In that work, a woman falls in love with her former neighbour, a bolter, who had earlier lent her money to set up her own laundry.
  - In another work by this author, a girl commits suicide in a tunnel by throwing herself in front of a train, having failed to kill a man and his lover.
  - In that novel, that man uses the knife earlier used to kill the president Grandmorin to murder his lover.
  - In another work by this author, the rabbit Pologne [pol-ON-yuh] provides comfort to Souvarine [soo-var-EEN], who destroys Le Voreux [vor-UH] at the end of that work.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about a miners' strike in Germinal. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Emile Zola
  - A novel by this author depicts the demise of the Baudu  family's shop amidst the rise of a department store inspired by contemporary Rive Gauche  life called the Ladies' Paradise. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another of this author's novels witnesses an "age-old resignation... swept aside" as the horse Bataille  attempts to survive a flood. [PWR]
  - Many of this author's novels were serialized by the periodical Gil Blas , including one whose protagonist falls in love with the (*) tram-cart pusher Catherine Maheu  and kills her lover Chaval  after a failed strike by coal miners.
  - This author's 20-novel series Les Rougons-Macquart  contains a novel about Etienne Lantier  titled Germinal .
  - For 10 points, name this author who attacked the anti-Semitism faced by Alfred Dreyfus  in his open letter J'Accuse...! [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]
  - In the penultimate section of "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast," Tom Wolfe cites an anecdote in which this writer discovers that a horse used by miners has lived in the mines its whole life.
  - This writer called for novelists to test, and not assert, their personal sentiments in an essay that applies Claude Bernard's theories of physiology to literature. [PWR]
  - He calls his enemies "mere entities, agents of harm to society" in a work that dares his opponents to try him in court, followed by the statement "I am waiting." This author of The Experimental Novel praised a leader for securing an alliance with (*) Russia and planning the 1900 World's Fair in a work that was published by the newspaper L'Aurore.
  - That work by this author was addressed to Felix Faure and contrasts the guilt of Ferdinand Esterhazy with the innocence of a man who was sent to Devil's Island.
  - For 10 points, name this French author who charged the government with anti-Semitism in the Dreyfus affair in his article J'accuse...! [GIVE]

[T8] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Emile Zola
  - This author declared "the metaphysical man is dead" in the conclusion to his essay "The Experimental Novel".
  - Cabuche is wrongly imprisoned for a murder committed by Roubaud on a train in a novel by this man.
  - Another novel by this man, which gets its name from a month in the French Republican Calendar, is about Etienne Lantier's experiences of a coalminer's strike.
  - Forming part of this man's Les Rougon-Macquart series alongside La Bete Humaine, that novel is Germinal.
  - For 10 points identify this French writer who helped exonerate Alfred Dreyfus with his article J'accuse? [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Emile Zola
  - One of this author's novels ends with a pregnant woman committing suicide by suffocating on flowers, and focuses on the priest Serge's relationship with Albine in the lush garden of Paradou.
  - The title character of another novel by this author attempts to prove his theories about heredity by chronicling the descendants of Tante Dide, and falls in love with his niece Clotilde.
  - This author led the Medan group of novelists, whose members included Paul Alexis and Joris-Karl Huysmans.
  - He also wrote a novel about Coupeau, whose alcoholism destroys the life of his wife Gervaise, and a novel about Gervaise's daughter, who dies of smallpox after living as a high-class cocotte.
  - He included La Faute de l'Abbe Mouret and Doctor Pascal in his cycle of twenty novels about the Second Empire.
  - For 10 points, name this French naturalist whose Rougon-Macquart cycle includes his novels L'Assommoir, Nana, and Germinal. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Henry Vizetelly, a controversial Victorian translator of French novels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Les Rougon-Macquart[or the Rougon-Macquart cycle] (by Emile Zola)):
    Vizetelly was most infamous for publishing the novels from this series, particularly the novel La Terre. This cycle includes the novels La Bete Humaine and Nana.
  Part 2 (ans: Guy de Maupassant [or Henri Rene Albert Guy de Maupassant]):
    Vizetelly also published Une Vie, the first novel by this author better known for short stories like "Mademoiselle Fifi" and "Boule de Suif."
  Part 3 (ans: Mimesis [or Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in Western Literature; or Mimesis: Dargestellte Wirklichkeit in der abendlandischen Literatur] (by Erich Auerbach)):
    Among the "pernicious literature" Vitzetelly was charged with spreading was the Goncourt brothers' novel Germinie Lacerteux, which is the focus of a chapter of this book of literary criticism. Stendhal's The Red and the Black is analyzed in this book's chapter "In the Hotel de la Mole."

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author is the namesake of a long-running contest to create the worst opening sentence for a novel, as well as a "Little" version run by Adam Cadre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Bulwer-Lytton [or Edward George Earle Lytton Bulwer-Lytton, 1st Baron Lytton]):
    Name this author whose sentence "It was a dark and stormy night" opens their novel Paul Clifford.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]):
    The 2019 Bulwer-Lytton runner-up describes "the injustice of the Dreyfus affair weighing on [this author] like a thousand baguettes." This author then shouts "Jacuzzi!" instead of the title of their pamphlet J'Accuse.
  Part 3 (ans: elves [or quendi; or eldarin]):
    2017's Bulwer-Lytton winner describes these people covering flowers with blankets near the city of Lossttii. The journal Vinyar Tengwar studies poems like "Namarie" (nah-MA-ree-eh) written in the language of these people.

[B3] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer's most ambitious project was a series of forty-six historical novels tracing his home country's history from the Battle of Trafalgar. For 10 Points Each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benito Perez Galdos [or Benito Maria de los Dolores Perez Galdos]):
    Name this Spanish author of Episodios Nacionales, as well as the Human Comedy-influenced novel Fortunata y Jacinta.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]):
    Galdos was also heavily influenced by this French author, whose twenty-novel cycle Les Rougon-Macquart exemplified the Naturalist literary style. This author wrote the J'accuse! letter during the Dreyfus affair.
  Part 3 (ans: Gerhart Hauptmann [or Gerhart Johann Robert Hauptmann]):
    Galdos was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1912, losing to this other Naturalist author. This German author wrote the play The Weavers.

[B4] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, the bishop Mael accidentally baptizes a group of these animals, turning them into humans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: penguins [or pingouins; accept Penguin Island or L'Ile des Pingouins; accept Penguin Books or Penguin Group or Penguin Random House or Penguin Classics; or Sphenisciformes; accept specific penguin species]):
    Name these birds, the subject of a novel by Anatole France. A British publishing group named for these birds merged with Random House in 2013.
  Part 2 (ans: the Kraken [prompt on sea monsters; prompt on putative equivalents like giant squid or cephalopods] (The poem is "The Kraken" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.)):
    In Penguin Island, a penguin named after this creature dresses as a dragon to terrorize villagers. A poem about this creature describes its "dreamless, uninvaded sleep" "below the thunders of the upper deep."
  Part 3 (ans: Dreyfus affair [or equivalents such as conviction of Dreyfus or the Dreyfus scandal] (The article is Emile Zola's J'Accuse!)):
    A long section of Penguin Island titled "The Case of 80,000 Bundles of Hay" is a satire of this event. An article on this event that was published in the newspaper L'Aurore criticizes various war offices for "miscarriage of justice."

[B5] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of America's "Big Five" publishers is the "Book Group" division of this company. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hachette [or Hachette Livre]):
    Name this largest publishing company in France. Its logo is the letter H.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola [or Emile Francois Zola]):
    This author left his job as head of publicity of Hachette after the publication of his novel La Confession de Claude. He is better known for writing the novel Germinal and the open letter J'accuse.
  Part 3 (ans: George Sand [or Amandine Aurore Lucille Dupin]):
    Hachette's founder, Louis Hachette, sold books written by this author, who adopted a male pseudonym for her novel Indiana. Her novel A Winter of Majorca is about a trip she took with Frederic Chopin.

[B6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work by this author, a man bites his friend on the neck while attempting to drown him in order to continue on an affair with his wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Emile Zola):
    Name this author, who included ("LAH-sum-mwar") and Germinal in his Les Rougon-Macquart ("lay roo-GON mah-KART") cycle.
  Part 2 (ans: Therese Raquin ("TAY-rehz RAH-kehn")):
    In this aforementioned Zola novel, the title character marries and later murders the hypochondriac Camille. The title character and her lover then marry and cope with their failing relationship in the aftermath of Camille's murder.
  Part 3 (ans: Laurent LeClaire [accept either underlined part]):
    Therese's lover is this friend of Camille's, who meets Therese while visiting her home to paint a portrait of her husband and, after the murder, is unable to paint anything that doesn't include some resemblance to Camille.

[B7] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Belgian literary theorist Jacques Dubois has called this character "Emma Bovary's proletarian little sister." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gervaise Macquart [accept Gervaise Coupeau]):
    Name this character who, after losing her laundry-shop, falls into alcoholism and eventually dies alone.
  Part 2 (ans: L'Assommoir [accept The Dram Shop or The Drinking Den; prompt on other titles involving alcohol with "Can you provide the original language title?"]):
    Gervaise Macquart appears in this novel, where she marries Coupeau after being abandoned by Lantier. It includes a bizarre wedding scene involving a visit to the Louvre.
  Part 3 (ans: Emile Zola):
    L'Assommoir appears in the Rougon-Macquart series of novels by this author. Other novels in the series include Le Docteur Pascal and La Bete humaine.

[B8] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Rachel Bowlby's book Just Looking discusses consumer culture in the works of these two authors and George Gissing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Theodore Dreiser [or Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser] and Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]):
    Name these two oft-analogized authors. Scenes by one of them in which a woman is enthralled by a Chicago department store and in which a woman drowns on a boating outing are often compared to scenes from the other's novels Au Bonheur des Dames (oh bohn-UR day dahm) and Therese Raquin.
  Part 2 (ans: naturalism [accept forms of the word naturalist]):
    Dreiser and Zola are respectively the foremost American and French authors of this movement, a branch of realism that sought to portray human beings with scientific objectivity.
  Part 3 (ans: "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast"):
    Zola is the self-professed "idol" of the later American author Tom Wolfe, who described Zola's visit to a coal mine near the end of this essay he intended as a "literary manifesto for the new social novel."

[B9] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these other things about trains in literature:
  Part 1 (ans: Emile Zola):
    Flore derails a train in an attempt to kill her cousin after she finds out that he is having an affair with Severine in this author's novel La Bete humaine .
  Part 2 (ans: Night Train to Lisbon [by Pascal Mercier]):
    In this novel by a different author, Raymond Gregorius quits his job at a Swiss school after reading a copy of Amadeu de Prado's book The Goldsmith of Words .

[B10] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Nana a filthy one of these creatures is named after the protagonist and is owned by the Count Xavier de Vandoeuvres. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Horses):
    Name these creatures one of which is trapped in a mine in Germinal.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola):
    Germinal and Nana were written by this author of the Rougon-Macquart series of books.
  Part 3 (ans: La Terre [or The Earth]):
    Horses also feature in this Zola novel in which Jean Macquart marries Francoise who is forced to fend off the advances of her brother-in-law Buteau Fouan. It also features a notable farting character and a shocking scene of coitus interruptus.

[B11] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One member of this family marries the roofer Coupeau in the novel L'Assommoir and givesbirth to the future prostitute Nana. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Macquarts):
    Name this family whose negative hereditary traits are carried on by the Lantiers in a series of French novels, in which their lower-class struggles contrast with another family's upper-class fortunes.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola):
    The Macquarts appear in the Les Rougon-Macquart series of this French author, who also wrote the letter "J'accuse."
  Part 3 (ans: La Bete Humaine [or The Human Beast; or The Beast Within; or The Beast in Man; or The Monomaniac]):
    This seventeenth novel in Les Rougon-Macquart deals with railroad employees Roubaud and Jacques Lantier and their relationships following the murder of Grandmorin.

[B12] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Antoine's body is so saturated with liquor from a lifetime of alcoholism that one day he just spontaneously combusts. Holy shit! For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doctor Pascal [or Le Docteur Pascal]):
    Identify this novel in which Clotilde begins an incestuous romance with her uncle, a scientist obsessed with constructing a gigantic family tree to validate his theories of heredity.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola [or Emile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola]):
    Doctor Pascal is the twentieth and final novel in the Rougon-Macquart series by this author, who railed against the treatment of Alfred Dreyfus in his letter J'accuse.
  Part 3 (ans: Nana):
    This novel by Zola tells the story of a woman who starts out as a streetwalker, ruins the lives of many suitors, such as Steiner and Fauchery, and finally dies, "a heap of pus and blood, a shovelful of putrid flesh," of smallpox.

[B13] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The familial progression central to this series begins with Adelaide Fouque, a neurotic nymphomaniac whose marriage to a laborer and affair with a smuggler produces Pierre, Ursule, and Antoine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Les Rougon-Macquart [or The Rougon-Macquart]):
    Identify this 20-novel series, heavily influenced by the evolutionary theories of Prosper Lucas, that includes Abbe Mouret's Transgression and Doctor Pascal, as well as better-known works like Nana and Germinal.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola):
    This Frenchman wrote the Rougon-Macquart cycle and also penned the famous letter "J'accuse."
  Part 3 (ans: La Bete Humaine [or The Human Beast]):
    In this insane novel from the series, Lantier vicariously enjoys Roubaud's murder of Grandmorin until his cousin derails a commuter train, leading him to rekindle his love of murdering by whacking his lover Severine.

[B14] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Throughout this novel, Felicite attempts to destroy the title character's files on heredity research, believing that the information will scandalize her family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doctor Pascal [or Le Docteur Pascal]):
    Name this 1893 novel that ends with the title character marrying his niece Clotilde.
  Part 2 (ans: L'Assommoir [or The Dram Shop; or The Drinking Den]):
    In this other novel, the laundrywoman Gervaise marries Coupeau after visiting the Louvre, and gives birth to Nana, before Coupeau ironically falls off the roof of a hospital and becomes an alcoholic.
  Part 3 (ans: Emile Zola):
    Doctor Pascal and L'Assommoir are two novels in the Rougon-Macquart series, which also includes Nana and Germinal and was written by this author of the open letter "J'Accuse!"

[B15] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this novel, Jacques Lantier, drives an engine called "La Lison" and plots to kill Roubaud with Severine after hearing a description of the grisly murder of Grand-Morin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Bete Humaine [or The Human Beast]):
    Identify this novel in the Les Rougon-Macquart sequence whose title refers to a person with a wild sexual passion that drives one to kill.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola):
    La Bete Humaine was written by this French author of Germinal and "J'Accuse."
  Part 3 (ans: Nana):
    Zola also wrote this other novel about a woman who becomes a comic actor, a courtesan, a client for le Comte Muffat de Beuville and then the boss of a lesbian prostitute named Satin. Ironically, she dies of smallpox.

[B16] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: Renovales is "the personification of human desire" in this man's La Maja Desnuda , translated as Woman Triumphant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vicente Blasco Ibanez):
    Name this Spanish realist who wrote a novel adapted into a film starring Rudolph Valentino, The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.
  Part 2 (ans: Emile Zola):
    Like other Spanish realists, Blasco Ibanez took inspiration from the Naturalism seen in this Frenchman's novels, including L'Assomoir and The Masterpiece.
  Part 3 (ans: Marianela):
    In this novel by Spanish realist Benito Perez Galdos, a blind boy named Pablo falls in love with the title peasant girl, but marries his cousin Florentina instead after regaining his sight and seeing that she is ugly.
