=== STOCK CLUES: Dylan Thomas ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 22 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: green [reject putative synonyms; specifically, accept "fire green as grass" or "whinnying green stable" or "The force that through the green fuse drives the flower" or "green bay" or "green and carefree" or "green and dying"] (all clues are from Dylan Thomas poems)
  - The speaker uses this adjective to describe fire after declaring, "it was air and playing, lovely and watery" in a poem that later applies this adjective and "whinnying" to a stable from which "spellbound horses" walk "on to the fields of praise." This is the only adjective in the lengthy title of an entry in 18 Poems whose stanzas each end with a statement beginning, "And I am dumb to tell..." This word is applied to a (*) bay where good men's "frail deeds might have danced." In the last entry in Deaths and Entrances, this adjective and "carefree" describe a speaker who was "famous among the barns"; later, this word and "dying" describe how "Time held me" at the end of "Fern Hill." For 10 points, Dylan Thomas often used what color for its traditional associations with youth and nature? [PWR,GIVE]

[T2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]
  - A speaker created by this author notes that "dawn breaks behind the eyes" yet halts "above the waste allotments" in a poem set where "the waters of the heart push in their tides." In a poem from this author's early "womb-tomb period," the speaker observes how "of my clay is made the hangman's lime," but he is "dumb to tell" that to the "hanging man." The poem "Light breaks where no sun shines" is from this author's first collection, (*) 18 Poems, which also includes the poem "The force that through the green fuse drives the flower." This author described himself "happy as the grass was green" in a poem that ends with the statement, "Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea." For 10 points, name this poet of "Fern Hill" who was born in Wales. [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas [or R.S. Thomas; or Edward Thomas; or Dylan Thomas]
  - A poet with this surname wrote about birds in a "garden that had not yet arrived at the knowledge of good and evil" in the poem "Thirteen Blackbirds Look at a Man." A poet with this surname described how "a blackbird sang close by" to end a poem set at an Oxfordshire train station, "Adlestrop." A third author with this surname pondered "how at my sheet goes the same crooked worm" in a poem about an entity that "drives my green age," a "force that through the green fuse drives the flower." "Time held" an author with this surname "green and dying like the sea" in a poem inspired by the Welsh countryside, "Fern Hill." For 10 points, give this surname of a poet who urged, "do not go gentle into that good night." [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas [accept Dylan Thomas or R.S. Thomas] (The first poem is from "Evans" by R. S. Thomas.)
  - The speaker of a poem by an author with this surname mentions "the drip / Of rain like blood from the one tree / Weather-tortured" while describing an encounter with "Evans." In a poem by an author with this surname, the speaker doesn't care about being taken to "the swallow thronged loft by the shadow of my hand." A poet with this surname wrote a poem whose speaker asks his father to "Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears." A poem by an author with this surname ends, "I sang in my chains like the sea" as "Time held me green and dying" and is titled "Fern Hill." The speaker of a villanelle by an author with this surname repeats, "Rage, rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, give this surname of the author of "Do not go gentle into that good night," Dylan. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas (The first two lines refer to "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London".)
  - This author wrote about a figure "robed in the long friends" in a poem inspired by the Blitz.
  - That poem by this author concludes "after the first death, there is no other" as a reason to perform the title action.
  - Another poem by this author speaks about "wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight" and that (*) "old age should burn and rave at close of day". [PWR]
  - For 10 points, identify this Welsh poet who wrote "rage, rage against the dying of the light" in his poem "Do not go gentle into that good night". [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas] (The first two stories are "The Orchards" and "A Visit to Grandpa's.")
  - In one of this author's esoteric early stories, a character named after this writer dreams that he kisses a scarecrow and that one hundred orchards catch on fire, then goes on a journey in which the dream comes true.
  - In another story by this author, the narrator's grandfather cries "Gee-up!" and imagines he's riding a horse when he's lying in bed.
  - The narrator and his friend Jim wait for cats in the garden before being interrupted by Mrs.
  - Prothero yelling "Fire!" in a story by this author whose narrator recalls receiving both "Useful Presents" and "Useless Presents." This author's home on a farm inspired the story "The Peaches" from his collection Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog and a poem about a time when he was "young and easy under the apple boughs." For 10 points, name this author whose youth in Swansea inspired the story "A Child's Christmas in Wales" and the poem "Fern Hill." [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]
  - This author addressed the poem "Elegy" to a "cold kind man brave in his narrow pride" who was "too proud to cry" and "too proud to die." Another poem by this author depicts the dead "Robed in the long friends, / The grains beyond age, the dark veins of her mother." This poet wrote about the "majesty and burning of the child's death" during the London Blitz.
  - This author described men whose "words had forked no lightning" in another poem whose speaker prays "Curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears." That poem evokes men whose "Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay," a reference to this poet's dying father.
  - For 10 points, name this Welsh poet who commanded "Rage rage against the dying of the light" in "Do not go gentle into that good night." [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas
  - This author wrote a poem in which a man encounters the grave of a virgin and envisions "Death and this mad heroine" meeting "on a mortal wall." One of this poet's speakers claims that he is "dumb to tell the hanging man/How of my clay is made that hangman's line." That speaker also says that "the force that drives [his] green age" is his destroyer. [PWR]
  - The line "after the first death, there is no other" ends a poem by this man about the (*) Blitz, which he also wrote about in "Deaths and Entrances." The speaker of a poem by this author of "Death Shall Have No Dominion" notes that "grave men, near death...see with blinding sight" This poet's most famous work is a villanelle that urges men to "rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night." [PWR,GIVE]

[T9] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas
  - Roald Dahl built a replica of this author's house to write in. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a poem set at Aunt Annie's farm in which he is "honoured among the foxes and pheasants" and "famous among the barns." He evoked "Heads... hammer[ing] through daisies" "though they be mad and dead as nails" in a poem which declares "Though lovers be lost love shall not." He wrote a poem which describes how "it was all / shining, it was Adam and maiden" and ends with the speaker saying that "time held me (*) green and dying." This author of "And Death Shall Have No Dominion" wrote a work reminiscing about a time when he was "young and easy under the apple boughs," "Fern Hill." This author claimed "old age should burn and rave" and urges his addressee to "rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of "Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night." [PWR,GIVE]

[T10] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]
  - This author warned of an enemy who knows "your heart is luminous / in the watched dark" and will "shut the sun" to become "the last Samson of your zodiac" in a poem set "on almost the incendiary eve." This poet wrote that he must enter "the synagogue of the ear of corn" but will not give "any further / elegy of innocence and youth" in a poem that concludes "after the first death, there is no other." This man gave those poems about the London Blitz the titles "Deaths and Entrances" and "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London." In another poem, he wrote that "wise men at their end know dark is right" and that "old age should burn and rave at close of day." For 10 points, name this heavy-drinking Welsh poet of "Do not go gentle into that good night." [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dylan Thomas
  - This author described the "singing light" by which the speaker labors "for the common wages / Of their most secret heart" in a poem relating how the titular practice is "exercised in the still night." In another work, this author wrote "I sang in my chains like the sea" and "time held me green and dying" after saying "I was young and easy (*) under the apple boughs." This author included "In my Craft or Sullen Art" and "Fern Hill" in Deaths and Entrances.
  - The village of Llareggub is the setting for his radio play Under Milkwood, and he also described "wise men," "good men," "wild men," and "grave men," in a villanelle proclaiming "rage, rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, identify this Welsh poet who wrote "Do not go gentle into that good night." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's Christ imagery includes references to "Blood from the Starved Man's wounded side" and "nineteen hundred and forty nails / Upon the Cross." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Still Falls the Rain"):
    Name this poem written in response to the London Blitz, in which the title phenomenon is likened to "the sound of the impious feet / On the Tomb" and described as "Dark as the world of man, black as our loss."
  Part 2 (ans: Edith Sitwell):
    "Still Falls the Rain" is by this poet. With her siblings, she collaborated with William Walton to create the avant-garde "entertainment" Facade.
  Part 3 (ans: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]):
    When asked in an interview about the misbehavior of the younger poets whom she supported, Edith Sitwell emphasized that this Welsh poet of "Fern Hill" always behaved impeccably in her presence, because no young person would dare to do otherwise.

[B2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Julian Treslove becomes obsessed with Judaism after he believes he was the wrongful target of an antisemitic attack. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Finkler Question):
    Name this novel whose Jewish title character joins an "ASHamed" organisation.
  Part 2 (ans: The BBC [or British Broadcasting Corporation] (The work is Dylan Thomas' Under Milk Wood.)):
    In The Finkler Question, Treslove used to work for this organisation. The name of a fictional town in a literary work written for this organisation was created by reversing the phrase "bugger all."
  Part 3 (ans: Booker Prize [or Booker Prize for Fiction, or Man Booker Prize] (The authors were Pauls Lynch, Murray and Harding, with Lynch's novel Prophet Song winning.)):
    In 2010, The Finkler Question won this annual award for best English language novel. The shortlist for the 2023 edition of this award featured three authors with the forename Paul.

[B3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. This person exhorts "Rebel against the binding moon / And the parliament of the sky" in a poem that begins with the advice "find meat on bones." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dylan Thomas's father [or David John Thomas; prompt on Thomas; prompt on the poet's father by asking, "Whose father?"]):
    Name or describe this man who is described as "a cold kind man brave in his narrow pride" in the unfinished poem "Elegy," which begins, "too proud to die; broken...he died."
  Part 2 (ans: "Do not go gentle into that good night"):
    Thomas asks his father to "Curse, bless, me now" in this villanelle which implores, "Rage, rage against the dying of the light."
  Part 3 (ans: blind [accept "blind eyes"]):
    Thomas frequently uses this word to describe his father in "Elegy," where this word and "unblessed" also describe "the darkest justice of death." In "Do not go gentle into that good night," body parts described by this adjective "could blaze like meteors and be gay."

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: While the author was 21 years old, this poem was published in the collection Twenty-Five Poems. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "And death shall have no dominion"):
    Name this poem whose speaker states "Though lovers be lost love shall not" before repeating the title line, which opens and closes all three stanzas.
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]):
    "And death shall have no dominion" is a poem by this Welsh author of the villanelle "Do not go gentle into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: the sea):
    In "And death shall have no dominion," Thomas asserts that men "under the windings" of this entity "shall not die windily." Thomas ends his poem"Fern Hill" with the line, "I sang in my chains like [this entity]."

[B5] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of Lawrence Ferlinghetti's poem "Underwear" assures its addressee "There's plenty of time my darling / are we not still young and easy?" after quoting this poem's title. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "And death shall have no dominion"):
    Name this poem that offers assurances like "though they sink through the sea they shall rise again" and "though lovers be lost love shall not."
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    "Underwear" repeatedly references and teases poems by this author of "And death shall have no dominion," such as in its exhortation, "do not go naked into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: green):
    Ferlinghetti's poem "Assassination Raga" repeats a line by Thomas about "the force that drives through the fuse" described by this word. Thomas's poem "Fern Hill" repeats, "time held me [this word] and dying."

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Caryl Churchill and Tom Stoppard got their professional starts working in this genre, which boomed after World War II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: radio dramas [or radio play; prompt on drama; prompt on play]):
    Name this genre. The audience listens to the dreams of sleeping townsfolk like Captain Cat and Mrs. Ogmore-Pritchard in one of these works, Under Milk Wood.
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    This author wrote Under Milk Wood and recited stories like A Child's Christmas in Wales on BBC Radio. This author also wrote the poem "Do not go gentle into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: Joe Orton [or Joe Kingsley Orton]):
    This author began a meteoric rise in the 1960s with the BBC Radio drama The Ruffian on the Stairs. This author of dark comedies like Loot and What the Butler Saw was murdered just four years later.

[B7] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a "Request to" this character, the speaker claims, "Lust bears like volts, who'll amplify, and strange / The worm is (pinpoint) rational in the fruit." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leda [accept Leda and the Swan]):
    Name this first title character of a poem that describes how "A shudder in the loins engenders there / The broken wall, the burning roof and tower."
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]):
    This author repeats "Not your winged lust but his must now change suit" in his poem "Request to Leda." This Welsh author's most famous poem is "Do not go gentle into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: Under Milk Wood):
    Captain Cat describes "Seas gliding with swans / In the seal-barking moon" in this Dylan Thomas radio play. This "play for voices" is set in the seaside town of Llareggub.

[B8] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one poem, this author recalls when he was held "green and dying" during a period in which his "wishes raced through the house high hay." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    Name this author of "Fern Hill." In another poem, this author asks the addressee to "curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears."
  Part 2 (ans: October):
    Another Welsh hill features in Thomas's poem about his "thirtieth year to heaven," which is titled as a "poem in" this month. This month is also the setting of Yeats's "The Wild Swans at Coole ("cool")," which describes how "the water / Mirrors a still sky" under this month's "twilight."
  Part 3 (ans: rage):
    In the refrain to his villanelle "Do not go gentle into that good night," Thomas tells the addressee to do this action "against the dying of the light."

[B9] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet asks "where are Whitman's wild children" and tells poets "don't wait for the Revolution / or it'll happen without you." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti):
    Name this poet of "Populist Manifesto" who described a "real live barking democratic dog" "with something to say about ontology" in another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    Ferlinghetti's poem "Underwear" uses the line "Do not go naked into that good night," referring to this Welsh poet's "Do not go gentle into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: the world [accept "The World is a Beautiful Place" or "The World is Too Much With Us"]):
    In another poem, Ferlinghetti calls this location "a beautiful place" but "right in the middle of it / comes the smiling / mortician." William Wordsworth declares "I'd rather be / a pagan suckled in a creed outworn" in a sonnet about being tired of this place.

[B10] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's son described him as a "clever, disappointed man," who, though he introduced his son to poetry, was ultimately frustrated by his job as an English teacher in Wales. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dylan Thomas's father [or David John Thomas; prompt on Thomas]):
    Identify this man. He inspired a poem that describes how this person's "blind eyes could blaze like meteors."
  Part 2 (ans: villanelle):
    That poem, "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night," is in this poetic form of nineteen lines, typically including two refrains. "One Art," by Elizabeth Bishop, is also in this form.
  Part 3 (ans: his death):
    Another Thomas poem opines that this entity "shall have no dominion." A Yeats (YATES) poem opening "I know that I shall meet my fate" is titled for an Irish airman who foresees this thing.

[B11] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's title comes from Paul's epistle to the Romans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "And death shall have no dominion"):
    Name this poem about men with "bones picked clean and clean bones gone" who have "stars at elbow and foot" and who, though "mad and dead as nails," "break in the sun til the sun breaks down."
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    "And death shall have no dominion" is by this Welsh poet, who told the reader to "rage, rage against the dying of the light" in "Do not go gentle into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: "Fern Hill"):
    In this other poem, Thomas recalls his childhood "young and easy under the apple boughs" and says "Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea."

[B12] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Samuel Beckett's one-act drama All That Fall was originally written for this medium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: radio drama [or BBC Radio]):
    Name this literary medium that the 1954 play Under Milk Wood was also originally written for.
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    This Welsh poet of "And death shall have no dominion" and "Do not go gentle into that good night" wrote Under Milk Wood.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Bolt):
    This playwright got his start writing BBC Radio dramas such as The Last of the Wine and The Drunken Sailor. His best known play was originally written for the radio and features the Common Man observing a historical figure executed by Henry VIII.

[B13] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem discusses "wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight" and muses that "old age should burn and rave at close of day." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night"):
    Name this poem collected in In Country Sleep.
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    This Welsh poet wrote "Do Not Go Gentle into that Good Night."
  Part 3 (ans: "Fern Hill"):
    This poem by Dylan Thomas recalls visits to his aunt's farm, beginning "Now I was young and easy under the apple boughs."
