Thailand	Countries and Sovereign States	Southeast Asian nation on the Gulf of Thailand and Andaman Sea; capital Bangkok, never colonized.
The Philippines	Countries and Sovereign States	Southeast Asian archipelago nation of over 7,000 islands, including Luzon and Mindanao.
Tibet	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	High-plateau autonomous region of China, source of the Yangtze, Yellow, Mekong, and Brahmaputra rivers.
Turkey	Countries and Sovereign States	Nation spanning Anatolia and a sliver of Europe, split by the Bosphorus at Istanbul.
Turks and Caicos Islands	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	British Caribbean territory southeast of the Bahamas, known for coral reefs.
Uluru	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Massive sandstone monolith in central Australia's Outback, sacred to the Anangu people.
Uzbekistan	Countries and Sovereign States	Central Asian nation, one of only two doubly landlocked countries in the world.
Vancouver Island	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Largest Pacific island off North America's west coast, part of British Columbia.
Venice	Cities and Urban Geography	Italian city built on a lagoon of the Adriatic, famed for its canals.
Yellowstone National Park	National Parks and Protected Areas	US national park mostly in Wyoming, sitting atop a volcanic hotspot with geysers like Old Faithful.
Zagros Mountains	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Range running along the Iran-Iraq border, source of Tigris and Euphrates tributaries.
Adelaide	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of South Australia, on the Gulf St Vincent.
African Union	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Continental political and economic union of African states, headquartered in Addis Ababa.
Alberta	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Western Canadian province with the Rocky Mountains and oil-sands industry, capital Edmonton.
Alfred Russel Wallace	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Naturalist whose namesake line divides Asian and Australian fauna through the Indonesian archipelago.
Alsace	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Historically contested French region on the Rhine, bordering Germany.
Amu Darya	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Central Asian river flowing from the Pamirs toward the Aral Sea, historically called the Oxus.
Andes	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Longest continental mountain range on Earth, running the length of western South America.
Andorra	Countries and Sovereign States	Tiny European microstate in the Pyrenees between France and Spain.
Angel Falls	Geographic Concepts and Processes	World's tallest uninterrupted waterfall, dropping from a tepui in Venezuela.
Angola	Countries and Sovereign States	Southern African nation on the Atlantic coast, former Portuguese colony rich in oil and diamonds.
aquifers	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Underground water-bearing rock layers, like the Ogallala, critical for irrigation and drinking water.
Arkansas	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	South-central US state of the Ozark Mountains and the Mississippi Delta.
Atacama Desert	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Driest nonpolar desert on Earth, in northern Chile between the Andes and Pacific.
Atlantic Ocean	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Second-largest ocean, separating the Americas from Europe and Africa.
Bahia	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Brazilian state on the northeastern Atlantic coast, historic center of the sugar and slave trade.
Baltic Sea	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Northern European sea bordered by Scandinavia, the Baltic states, Poland, and Germany.
Baltimore, Maryland	Cities and Urban Geography	Port city on the Chesapeake Bay's Patapsco River estuary.
bananas	Economic Geography: Resources and Agriculture	Tropical fruit crop tied to Central American "banana republic" plantation economies.
Banff National Park	National Parks and Protected Areas	Canada's oldest national park, in the Alberta Rockies.
baobab tree	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Iconic swollen-trunked tree of Madagascar and mainland Africa's savannas.
Barbados	Countries and Sovereign States	Easternmost Caribbean island nation, a former British colony.
Bath	Cities and Urban Geography	English city famed for Roman-era hot springs, in Somerset.
Beagle Channel	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Strait at the southern tip of South America, disputed between Argentina and Chile.
Belgium	Countries and Sovereign States	Low Countries nation split between the Flemish north and Walloon south, capital Brussels.
Bering strait	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Narrow strait separating Russia and Alaska, linking the Pacific and Arctic Oceans.
Berlin	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Germany, on the Spree River, divided by a wall during the Cold War.
Black Sea	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Sea bordered by Turkey, Russia, and Ukraine, connected to the Mediterranean via the Bosphorus.
blue	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Color linking geographic features such as the Blue Nile, Blue Ridge Mountains, and Blue Grotto.
Blue Holes	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Underwater sinkholes found in the Bahamas and Belize, popular with divers.
Bogota	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Colombia, a high-altitude city on the Andean plateau.
Brahmaputra	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Major South Asian river flowing from Tibet through India and Bangladesh.
Budapest	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Hungary, formed by uniting Buda and Pest on the Danube.
casinos	Peoples and Cultural Geography	Gambling establishments defining places like Las Vegas, Macau, and Monaco.
Caucasus Mountains	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Range between the Black and Caspian Seas, traditional boundary of Europe and Asia.
cemeteries	Peoples and Cultural Geography	Burial grounds notable as land-use features, from Pere Lachaise to Arlington.
cemetery	Peoples and Cultural Geography	Singular form of the burial-ground answerline, referencing a specific notable graveyard.
Central African Republic	Countries and Sovereign States	Landlocked Central African nation, one of the world's poorest despite mineral wealth.
Channel Tunnel	Infrastructure and Engineering	Undersea rail tunnel connecting England and France beneath the English Channel.
Chicago, Illinois	Cities and Urban Geography	Major US city on Lake Michigan, noted for its skyline and rail hub.
Chile	Countries and Sovereign States	Extremely long, narrow South American nation between the Andes and the Pacific.
Chinook	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Warm, dry wind that descends the eastern Rocky Mountains across the Great Plains.
cholera	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Waterborne disease famously mapped by John Snow to a London water pump.
Colorado River	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	River that carved the Grand Canyon, flowing from the Rockies toward the Gulf of California.
Cook Strait	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Strait separating New Zealand's North and South Islands.
corn	Economic Geography: Resources and Agriculture	Staple grain crop dominant in the US Midwest's Corn Belt.
Cotopaxi	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Active Ecuadorian volcano in the Andes, one of the highest in the world.
Crete	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Largest Greek island, in the eastern Mediterranean, home to ancient Minoan civilization.
Danube River	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Europe's second-longest river, flowing from Germany through Vienna and Budapest to the Black Sea.
Death Valley	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Below-sea-level desert basin in California, hottest and driest place in North America.
desertification	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Process by which fertile land turns to desert, notably along the Sahel.
Detroit	Cities and Urban Geography	Michigan city on the Detroit River across from Canada, historic auto-manufacturing center.
Djibouti	Countries and Sovereign States	Small Horn of Africa nation on the Bab-el-Mandeb strait, a strategic Red Sea location.
Dominica	Countries and Sovereign States	Mountainous, volcanic Caribbean island nation, not to be confused with the Dominican Republic.
dugongs	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Marine mammals found in the Indian and Pacific Oceans, including near the Great Barrier Reef.
Edinburgh	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Scotland, built around a volcanic crag topped by its castle.
Faroe Islands	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Autonomous Danish archipelago in the North Atlantic between Iceland and Norway.
Federated States of Micronesia	Countries and Sovereign States	Pacific island nation of hundreds of islands, formerly a US trust territory.
Federative Republic of Brazil	Countries and Sovereign States	Formal name for Brazil, the largest South American nation.
Fergana Valley	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Densely populated Central Asian valley split among Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Tajikistan.
Fiji	Countries and Sovereign States	South Pacific island nation, a melting pot of Melanesian and Indian populations.
Finland	Countries and Sovereign States	Nordic nation of thousands of lakes, bordering Russia and the Baltic Sea.
Fjords	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Steep, glacially carved coastal inlets, most famous in Norway and New Zealand.
Florence	Cities and Urban Geography	Italian Renaissance city on the Arno River in Tuscany.
Gambia River	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	West African river that gives its name to the narrow nation of the Gambia.
Garifuna	Peoples and Cultural Geography	Afro-Indigenous people of Central America's Caribbean coast, descended from shipwrecked Africans and Caribs.
Giant's Causeway	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Basalt column formation on Northern Ireland's coast, formed by ancient volcanic activity.
Glacier National Park	National Parks and Protected Areas	US national park in Montana's Rocky Mountains, named for its shrinking glaciers.
Gran Chaco	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Sparsely populated lowland plain spanning Argentina, Paraguay, and Bolivia.
Great Barrier Reef	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	World's largest coral reef system, off the coast of Queensland, Australia.
