Portland, Oregon	Cities and Urban Geography	Pacific Northwest city at the confluence of the Willamette and Columbia rivers.
Puerto Rico	Countries and Sovereign States	Caribbean island territory of the United States, capital San Juan.
Puget Sound	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Deep inlet of the Pacific in Washington state, surrounded by Seattle and Tacoma.
Pyrenees	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Range forming the natural border between France and Spain, home to Andorra.
Quebec	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Largest Canadian province by area, predominantly French-speaking, capital Quebec City.
Queen Maud Land	National Parks and Protected Areas	Norwegian-claimed sector of Antarctica.
red	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Color linking geographic features such as the Red Sea, Red River, and Red Square.
reindeer	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Arctic and subarctic animal herded by the Sami people of Scandinavia.
Republic of Cameroon	Countries and Sovereign States	Formal name for Cameroon, the Central/West African nation dubbed "Africa in miniature."
Republic of Equatorial Guinea	Countries and Sovereign States	Formal name for Equatorial Guinea, a small Central African nation on the Gulf of Guinea.
Republic of Honduras	Countries and Sovereign States	Formal name for Honduras, the Central American nation on the Caribbean and Pacific.
Republic of Kazakhstan	Countries and Sovereign States	Formal name for Kazakhstan, the largest landlocked country in the world.
Republic of Namibia	Countries and Sovereign States	Formal name for Namibia, the Southern African nation with the Namib and Kalahari deserts.
Republic of the Congo	Countries and Sovereign States	Central African nation on the Congo River's west bank, capital Brazzaville.
Republic of Turkey	Countries and Sovereign States	Formal name for Turkey, spanning Anatolia and a sliver of Europe.
rickshaws	Peoples and Cultural Geography	Human- or cycle-powered transport common in South and Southeast Asian cities.
Rojava	Geographic Concepts and Processes	De facto autonomous Kurdish-led region in northeastern Syria.
Romania	Countries and Sovereign States	Balkan/Eastern European nation on the Black Sea, home to Transylvania and the Carpathians.
Rub' al Khali	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Vast sand desert covering much of the southern Arabian Peninsula, the "Empty Quarter."
Rwanda	Countries and Sovereign States	Densely populated East African nation of a thousand hills, near Lake Kivu.
Sahel	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Semi-arid transitional belt south of the Sahara, prone to desertification.
Sakhalin	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Russian island in the Pacific north of Japan, at times disputed with Japan.
salmon	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Fish that migrate up rivers like the Columbia to spawn, tied to Pacific Northwest geography.
Sami	Peoples and Cultural Geography	Indigenous reindeer-herding people of northern Scandinavia and Russia's Kola Peninsula.
San Francisco	Cities and Urban Geography	California city on a peninsula between the Pacific and San Francisco Bay.
Santiago de Compostela	Cities and Urban Geography	Spanish city in Galicia, endpoint of the Camino pilgrimage route.
Sapporo	Cities and Urban Geography	Largest city on Japan's Hokkaido island, known for its snow festival.
Sarajevo	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina, site of the assassination that sparked World War I.
Saudi Arabia	Countries and Sovereign States	Largest Arabian Peninsula nation, home to Mecca and Medina.
Sava River	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Balkan river flowing through Slovenia, Croatia, and Bosnia into the Danube.
Seattle	Cities and Urban Geography	Pacific Northwest US city on Puget Sound, near Mount Rainier.
Senegal	Countries and Sovereign States	Westernmost mainland African nation, surrounding the Gambia.
Seoul	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of South Korea, on the Han River.
Seville	Cities and Urban Geography	Southern Spanish city in Andalusia, on the Guadalquivir River.
Seychelles	Countries and Sovereign States	Indian Ocean island nation northeast of Madagascar.
Shinkansen	Infrastructure and Engineering	Japan's high-speed "bullet train" rail network.
Sierra Leone	Countries and Sovereign States	West African nation on the Atlantic, known for diamond mining and a civil war legacy.
Skeleton Coast	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Fog-shrouded, shipwreck-strewn Namibian coastline within the Namib Desert.
South Korea	Countries and Sovereign States	East Asian nation on the southern Korean Peninsula, capital Seoul.
Southern Ocean	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Ocean surrounding Antarctica, sometimes considered the fifth ocean.
Spratly Islands	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Contested South China Sea archipelago claimed by China and several Southeast Asian nations.
St. Louis	Cities and Urban Geography	Missouri city at the confluence of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers, marked by the Gateway Arch.
Stonehenge	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Prehistoric stone monument on Salisbury Plain in England.
Taklamakan Desert	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Large desert in China's Xinjiang region, along the ancient Silk Road.
Tamil Nadu	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	South Indian state on the Bay of Bengal, capital Chennai.
Tampa Bay	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	Large estuary on Florida's Gulf Coast, surrounded by Tampa and St. Petersburg.
Tatra Mountains	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Highest range of the Carpathians, on the Poland-Slovakia border.
Tennessee River	Rivers, Lakes, and Wetlands	River flowing through Tennessee and Alabama, dammed extensively by the TVA.
The Bahamas	Countries and Sovereign States	Caribbean island nation of hundreds of islands southeast of Florida.
The Fens	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Low-lying, drained marshland region of eastern England.
The Matterhorn	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Iconic pyramidal peak on the Swiss-Italian border in the Alps.
Tokyo	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Japan, the world's most populous metropolitan area, on Tokyo Bay.
Torres Strait	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Strait separating Australia's Cape York Peninsula from Papua New Guinea.
Transylvania	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Historic region of Romania enclosed by the Carpathian Mountains.
Trinidad	Countries and Sovereign States	Southernmost Caribbean island, paired with Tobago, near Venezuela.
Tunisia	Countries and Sovereign States	North African nation on the Mediterranean, easternmost of the Maghreb.
Tuva	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Russian republic in southern Siberia, known for throat singing.
Tuvalu	Countries and Sovereign States	Tiny Pacific island nation threatened by rising sea levels.
Ukraine	Countries and Sovereign States	Eastern European nation on the Black Sea, crossed by the Dnieper River.
Ulaanbaatar	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Mongolia, one of the coldest capital cities in the world.
Uranium	Economic Geography: Resources and Agriculture	Radioactive mineral mined in places like Kazakhstan, Niger, and Australia.
Valencia	Cities and Urban Geography	Spanish Mediterranean city known for its City of Arts and Sciences and paella.
Vancouver	Cities and Urban Geography	Pacific coastal city in British Columbia, Canada, near the US border.
Vancouver, British Columbia	Cities and Urban Geography	Pacific coastal city in British Columbia, Canada, near the US border.
Vienna	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of Austria on the Danube, historic Habsburg imperial seat.
Vietnam	Countries and Sovereign States	Southeast Asian nation along the South China Sea, drained by the Mekong and Red rivers.
Vinson Massif	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Highest peak in Antarctica, part of the Ellsworth Mountains.
Vladivostok	Cities and Urban Geography	Russian Pacific port city, terminus of the Trans-Siberian Railway.
Wales	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Constituent nation of the United Kingdom, mountainous and Celtic, capital Cardiff.
Washington	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Pacific Northwest US state on Puget Sound, home to Seattle and Mount Rainier.
Washington, D.C.	Cities and Urban Geography	Capital of the United States, on the Potomac River, not part of any state.
waterfalls	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Cascading water features such as Angel Falls, Niagara, and Victoria Falls.
West Bank	Geographic Concepts and Processes	Palestinian territory west of the Jordan River, disputed between Israel and Palestinians.
Xinjiang	States, Provinces, and Subnational Regions	Vast autonomous region in northwestern China, home to the Taklamakan Desert and a large Uyghur population.
Yamoussoukro	Cities and Urban Geography	Official capital of Ivory Coast, home to a giant basilica.
Yucatan Peninsula	Mountains, Deserts, and Landforms	Mexican peninsula separating the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean, site of Maya ruins.
yurts	Peoples and Cultural Geography	Portable round tents traditionally used by nomadic peoples of Central Asia and Mongolia.
Zanzibar	Oceans, Seas, and Islands	Semi-autonomous archipelago off Tanzania, historic center of the spice and slave trade.
