=== STOCK CLUES: Koolhaas ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This firm designed a building that resembles two pieces of paper being separated and folded. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: OMA [or Office for Metropolitan Architecture]):
    Name this firm that designed the Qatar National Library. This firm based in Rotterdam also designed the Fondazione Prada in Milan.
  Part 2 (ans: Seattle, Washington):
    OMA also designed the "central library" of this North American city. The Space Needle was created for the 1962 World's Fair in this city.
  Part 3 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    The Qatar National Library and the Seattle Central Library were designed by this architect. This architect arranged OMA's projects in order of size in the book S,M,L,XL.

[B2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect studied mathematics before moving to London to study architecture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Zaha Mohammad Hadid]):
    Name this architect of the London Aquatics Center for the 2012 Olympics. This architect also sued the New York Review of Books for discrimination after criticism of worker deaths at Al-Janoub Stadium.
  Part 2 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    In London, Hadid studied under this architect who co-founded the Office of Metropolitan Architecture with another one of her professors, Elia Zenghelis. This architect designed the CCTV Headquarters in Beijing and the Seattle Central Library.
  Part 3 (ans: opera house [prompt on theater, auditorium, concert hall, or performing arts center]):
    Hadid designed one of these buildings in Guangzhou. One of these buildings which overlooks Sydney Harbour was designed by Jorn Utzon.

[B3] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This city is home to a Jean Nouvel-designed National Museum that features interlocking disks inspired by the desert rose crystal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Doha, Qatar):
    Name this city which contains buildings like Tornado Tower and the 300-meter-tall Aspire Tower. The planned Lusail Iconic Stadium will be built north of this city.
  Part 2 (ans: I. M. Pei [or Ieoh Ming Pei]):
    Doha is home to the Museum of Islamic Art, which was designed at age 91 by this Chinese-American architect of the Louvre Pyramid.
  Part 3 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [or Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    In 2017, this Dutch architect completed the new Qatar National Library in Education City, Doha. This author of S, M, L, XL also designed the CCTV headquarters building.

[B4] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One project leader was inspired by the design of this work to create a line of prefabricated low-income housing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Star Wars):
    Name this film series. Kanye West was later forced to shut down building the aforementioned dome-like houses, inspired by Tunisian desert housing which was used to represent Tatooine ("TAH-too-een") in this film series.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Ireland):
    The Jedi Academy Library was ripped off from the Long Room in the library of this country's oldest college. Medieval monasteries located in this country include Clonmacnoise ("CLON-muck-NEE-shuh") and Skellig Michael, where the Ahch-To ("OCK-TOE") scenes in The Last Jedi were filmed.
  Part 3 (ans: Rem Koolhaas):
    This architect designed the UAE's RAK Convention Center, which looks suspiciously like the Death Star, as well as Casa de Musica, which looks like a Jawa sandcrawler. This man also wrote S, M, L, XL.

[B5] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One house designed by this person has a so-called 'disappearing corner' and was constructed for a woman whose ideas on that house meant that she was given a co-designer credit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerrit Rietveld):
    Bart van der Leck told this designer to make a chair he had more colorful. This designer had that chair inscribed with the poem Der Aesthet by Christian Morgenstern.
  Part 2 (ans: the Netherlands [or Holland]):
    Gerrit Rietveld was from this country. He designed the Metz & Co building in the Hague, which is located in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Rembrandt "Rem" Koolhaas):
    This later Dutch designer and architect designed the Seattle Central Library and wrote the book Delirious New York, which praises the 'chance-like' nature of city living.

[B6] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The cover of a book by this architect features his wife Madelon Vriesendorp's (VREE-zen-dorp's) painting Flagrant Delit, which shows two distorted skyscrapers lying in bed next to the Statue of Liberty's torch. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [or Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    Name this architect who wrote Delirious New York. With Ole Scheeren (OH-luh SHAY-ren), this architect designed Beijing's CCTV headquarters, which features a 75-meter perpendicular cantilevered section suspended from two separate towers.
  Part 2 (ans: Seattle, Washington):
    Koolhaas designed the glass-and-steel central library in this American city. The 1962 World's Fair in this city produced its Pacific Science Center and Space Needle.
  Part 3 (ans: barcode):
    Koolhaas's 2002 never-adopted redesign of the flag of the European Union is typically referred to by its similarity to this visual pattern. The flag has been praised for being easily updated to reflect the entry of new member states.

[B7] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An architect couple from this country was inspired by the Wankel engine in their design of the Mercedes-Benz museum in Stuttgart, Germany. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Netherlands [or Holland] (The designers of the Mercedes-Benz museum are UNStudio's Ben van Berkel and Caroline Bos.)):
    Name this home country of an architect who founded the Office of Metropolitan Architecture with Elia Zenghelis. That architect from this nation wrote an essay about the emergence of "Junkspace."
  Part 2 (ans: Remment Lucas "Rem" Koolhaas):
    The author of "Junkspace" was this Harvard professor who designed the Seattle Central Library, the Casa de Musica in Porto, and the largest building in the Netherlands, De Rotterdam.
  Part 3 (ans: People's Republic of China):
    Koolhaas also helped designed the CCTV headquarters and the Shenzhen ("shun-jun") Stock Exchange building in this nation, the birth nation of the designer of the Louvre Pyramid, I. M. Pei.

[B8] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect introduced the term "Manhattanism" to designate an ideology that embraces and celebrates urban congestion in his book S, M, L, XL. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rem Koolhaas):
    Name this Dutch-born architect who co-founded the Office of Metropolitan Architecture with Elia Zenghelis.
  Part 2 (ans: Prada):
    Rem Koolhaas's OMA recently created a series of huge art galleries for this Milan-headquartered company, as well as a weird multipurpose building for it called a "Transformer" in Seoul. This company, whose subsidiaries include Miu Miu, commissioned Herzog & De Meuron to create an all-glass store in Tokyo.
  Part 3 (ans: London):
    In 2006, OMA also worked on the pavilion for the Serpentine Galleries in this city, which is.also home to the Tate Modern art gallery and Big Ben.

[B9] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One essay in this volume describes a masterplan for Yokohama that uses a continuous and formless method of planning that resembles the title "programmatic lava." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: S,M,L,XL [accept Small, Medium, Large, Extra-Large]):
    Name this book, which contains essays such as "Islam after Einstein" and the poem "Learning Japanese." Bruce Mau partly designed this book, whose entries are arranged chronologically within the title categories.
  Part 2 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [or Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    S,M,L,XL was written by this theorist, who called Manhattan the "twentieth century's Rosetta Stone" in his book Delirious New York. His firm OMA designed the Seattle Central Library.
  Part 3 (ans: IIT [or Illinois Institute of Technology; accept Illinois Tech]):
    Koolhaas designed the McCormick Tribune Campus Center, which is topped by a huge tubular metal train tunnel, for this American university. Its S.R. Crown Hall, like much of the rest of its campus, was designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.

[B10] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Joshua Prince-Ramus worked for this firm before founding REX, and Bjarke Ingels worked there before founding BIG. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: OMA [or:Office of Metropolitan Architecture]):
    Name this architecture firm which is known for incubating "starchitects." It collaborated with Cecil Balmond on the Maison a Bordeaux, a moving house for a client in a wheelchair.
  Part 2 (ans: Rem Koolhaas):
    OMA is run by this Dutch architect who designed the Seattle Central Library and the Casa da Musica in Portugal.
  Part 3 (ans: China):
    Koolhaas's design for a television broadcaster's headquarters in this country is often nicknamed for its resemblance to a pair of shorts. Steven Holl's innovating complex called Linked Hybrid is in this country.

[B11] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about key works of architecture theory by architects, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]):
    This Swiss-born architect of the square, stilt-raised Villa Savoye developed a modern view of how to de-sign buildings in Towards a New Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Las Vegas, Nevada [or Paradise, Nevada]):
    Architect Robert Venturi published a study about Learning from this American city, where Dale Chihuly de-signed a glass sculpture for the Bellagio.
  Part 3 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [or Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    This architect of the CCTV television headquarters in Beijing collaborated with Bruce Mau on a theoretical survey of his work, and of the "Architecture of Bigness," in the book S, M, L, XL.

[B12] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: Magnusson Klemencic Associates consulting firm is headquartered in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seattle, Washington):
    Name this city, where MKA's structural engineers worked on a building that includes the Charles Simonyi Mixing Center and the "Living Room" on the third floor.
  Part 2 (ans: (Remment Lucas) "Rem" Koolhaas):
    The aforementioned building is Seattle's Central Library, which was designed by this Dutch architect and winner of the 2000 Pritzker Prize.
  Part 3 (ans: The Space Needle):
    Seattle is also home to this observation tower that was built for the 1962 World's Fair. Visitors can dine in its revolving restaurant SkyCity, which is located 500 feet above the base of the tower.

[B13] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: More than ever, the Chinese are turning to internationally-renowned firms to complete architectural work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beijing):
    Prolific Swiss firm Herzog & De Meuron collaborated with artist Ai Weiwei on the design of an athletic stadium also known as the Bird's Nest, which is located in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Remment Lucas Koolhaas):
    Beijing's China Central Television Tower, which features two slanted towers connected by a cantilever, was designed by OMA, a firm headed by this Dutch architect. His theories are outlined in Delirious New York.
  Part 3 (ans: Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP (or SOM)):
    This firm, which designed the Willis Tower and the Burj Khalifa, is presently working on the incredibly efficient Pearl River Tower in Guangzhou. One of its architects won the commission to design One World Trade Center.

[B14] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these buildings was built by the Ferrovial company and its panels are supposed to resemble fish scales. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Guggenheim Museums [prompt on "museums"]):
    Name these buildings, one of which was designed by Frank Gehry and lies on the Nervion River in Spain. Another is a helical spiral building on 88th Street and Fifth Avenue in NYC.
  Part 2 (ans: Abu Dhabi):
    The Guggenheim Museum in this city will be designed by Frank Gehry as well and is expected to be finished in 2013. It will lie on Saaydiyat Island.
  Part 3 (ans: Rem Koolhaas):
    The Guggenheim Hermitage Museum in Las Vegas was designed by this architect who also proposed a "Barcode" design for the European Union flag and designed the Seattle Central Library.
