=== STOCK CLUES: Fra Angelico ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fra Angelico da Fiesole [or Fra Giovanni da Fiesole; or Guido di Pietro; prompt on partial answer]
  - This artist painted a receding row of opened tombs at the bottom center of a Last Judgment that was made as the backing for a priest's chair. [PWR]
  - An early Deposition by this artist divides its background landscape into three sections corresponding to the three Gothic arches of its frame. [PWR]
  - This artist's Annalena Altarpiece is often considered the first sacra conversazione.
  - This artist painted a series of frescoes for a complex rebuilt by Michelozzo di Bartolomeo, including a Crucifixion above a set of portrait medallions of famous (*) Dominican friars. [PWR]
  - An altarpiece by this man depicts Saints Cosmas and Damian kneeling on a rug whose foreshortening reflects the influence of his younger contemporary Masaccio.
  - This artist painted frescoes for each cell in a complex whose entrance staircase leads up to his most famous Annunciation.
  - For 10 points, name this painter who decorated his own monastery of San Marco. [GIVE]

[T2] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fra Angelico [or Guido di Petro; accept Fra Giovanni da Fiesole or Brother John of Fiesole or Fra Giovanni Angelico or Angelic Brother John or il Beato Angelico]
  - This artist included text from the Creation as part of the outer ring, and text from the Gospel of John as part of the inner ring, in his circular painting The Vision of Ezekiel.
  - His depiction of the life of Christ includes a mockery scene in which a disembodied hand uses a stick to brutalize a blindfolded Jesus.
  - He collaborated with Luca Signorelli and his own student Benozzo Gozzoli to paint frescoes depicting the Judgment Day, in a cathedral in Umbria.
  - He created an altarpiece with nine predella panels depicting stories of Cosmas and Damian, whose central scene is a sacra conversazione that includes numerous saints standing on an Anatolian carpet behind a pax tablet depicting the crucifixion.
  - He worked on the Orvieto Cathedral, and showed golden rays emanating from the hands of God hitting the Virgin Mary in one of his versions of the Annunciation, which takes place in an open building with blue pendentives.
  - For 10 points, what painter of the San Marco altarpiece was also a 15th-century Catholic priest? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A compositional anomaly in this work suggests that it once hung on a side altar in its original home of the Church of San Bartolomeo a Monte Oliveto. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annunciation [accept but do not reveal Leonardo da Vinci's Annuciation]):
    Name this painting that features a central figure with an excessively long right arm resting on a book. A marble table in this painting is most likely derived from a tomb sculpted by the artist's master.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo]):
    The Annunciation is the earliest work usually attributed to this artist alone. About a decade later, this artist moved to Milan, where he was commissioned to paint the Madonna of the Rocks.
  Part 3 (ans: Fra Angelico):
    This artist's oft-imitated depiction of the Annunciation shows Gabriel with multi-colored wings surrounding Mary in a garden. This artist and Dominican friar included that work and others around the cells of his San Marco monastery.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about papal tombs, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Gian Lorenzo Bernini):
    St. Peter's Basilica contains the tomb of its namesake pope, which is located underneath a gilded bronze baldachin designed by this sculptor of the Ecstasy of Saint Teresa.
  Part 2 (ans: slaves [accept the Dying Slave or Rebellious Slave; accept prigioni or prisoners or captives]):
    For the Tomb of Julius II, Michelangelo created six sculptures of these figures, four of which remained unfinished at his death. Michelangelo did complete his sculptures of "Dying" and "Rebellious" subjects of this type.
  Part 3 (ans: Fra Angelico da Fiesole [or Fra Giovanni da Fiesole; or Guido di Pietro; prompt on partial answers]):
    The Basilica of Santa Maria sopra Minerva in Rome contains multiple papal tombs and the tomb of this artist, who included a scene of the Annunciation in paintings around the cells of the Convent of San Marco.

[B3] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This technique's "true" style involved workshop assistants making charcoal copies of original compositions called sinopia in sections intended to be finished in a "day's work" called giornata. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: frescoes [accept buon fresco; accept fresco secco]):
    Name this Renaissance technique of painting directly onto wet or dry plaster on a wall.
  Part 2 (ans: St. Ignatius of Loyola [or Sant'Ignazio]):
    This figure splits a beam of light four ways during his apotheosis in a ceiling fresco painted by Andrea Pozzo. Baciccio ("bah-CHEE-cho") created the Triumph of the Name of Jesus fresco for a church founded by this figure's followers, which featured the first Baroque facade and is called Il Gesu ("JAY-zoo").
  Part 3 (ans: Fra Angelico [or Guido di Pietro; or Fra Giovanni Angelico; or il Beato Angelico; accept Fra Giovanni da Fiesole]):
    A depiction of Gabriel with multicolored wings approaches Mary from an enclosed garden in this artist's oft-imitated Annunciation fresco, which was painted above cells in this artist-monk's own monastery of San Marco.

[B4] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist included an Anatolian carpet featuring Cancer and Pisces, symbolizing the Council of Florence, and the patron saints Cosmas and Damian, among other elements of Medici propaganda, in his San Marco Altarpiece. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fra Angelico [or Guido di Pietro]):
    Name this Italian painter whose masterpiece is an Annunciation scene set in a portico, featuring an angel with multicolored wings. He was also a priest.
  Part 2 (ans: Cortona [accept Pietro da Cortona]):
    A less brightly-colored annunciation by Fra Angelico is named for this Tuscan city, which a century later was the birthplace of the artist who filled the ceiling of the grand salon of the Palazzo Barberini with his Allegory of Divine Providence.
  Part 3 (ans: linear perspective):
    Fra Angelico's Annunciations were among the first in Western art to demonstrate this principle, the ability to represent the three-dimensional view of the world on a two-dimensional canvas.

[B5] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building's name derives from the fact that it used to hold the Medici's government offices. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Uffizi Gallery [or Galleria degli Uffizi]):
    Name this art gallery in Florence which contains Botticelli's The Birth of Venus and Primavera, as well as Titian's Venus of Urbino.
  Part 2 (ans: Fra Angelico [or Guido di Petro]):
    One of this painter's depictions of The Coronation of the Virgin hangs at the Uffizi. That particular version has a gold background and depicts the central event flanked by crowds of people standing on clouds. He also painted an altarpiece which is named for the nearby museum of San Marco, where it now stands.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Cecilia):
    The Uffizi's early Renaissance collection includes an anonymous altarpiece of this saint, which was pulled from a church destroyed by fire in 1304. Guido Reni depicted her wearing a white turban and gazing upwards.

[B6] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building's namesake altarpiece features an infant Jesus holding a black orb above a small image of the Crucifixion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Church of San Marco [or Church of Saint Mark or Museo di San Marco or Museum of Saint Mark]):
    Identify this religious complex also home to the Tabernacle of the Linaioli and the St. Peter of Verona Triptych.
  Part 2 (ans: Fra Angelico [or Beato Angelico or Blessed Angelico or Fra Giovanni da Fiesole or Guido di Pietro]):
    This Florentine artist of the San Marco Altarpiece showed St. Lawrence in a flame pattern cloak in his St. Lawrence Distributing the Treasures of the Church.
  Part 3 (ans: the Annunciation to the Blessed Virgin Mary [or the Annunciation of the Lord]):
    Several of Fra Angelico's versions of this scene were in the hortus conclusus style of enclosing the central figure in a garden. One such Fra Angelico version of this scene sees the word of God literally coming from the mouth of Gabriel on its way to Mary.

[B7] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building's namesake altarpiece features an infant Jesus holding a black orb above a small image of the Crucifixion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Church of San Marco [or Church of Saint Mark or Museo di San Marco or Museum of Saint Mark]):
    Identify this religious complex also home to the Tabernacle of the Linaioli and the St. Peter of Verona Triptych.
  Part 2 (ans: Fra Angelico [or Beato Angelico or Blessed Angelico or Fra Giovanni da Fiesole or Guido di Pietro]):
    This Florentine artist of the San Marco Altarpiece showed St. Lawrence in a flame pattern cloak in his St. Lawrence Distributing the Treasures of the Church.
  Part 3 (ans: the Annunciation to the Blessed Virgin Mary [or the Annunciation of the Lord]):
    Several of Fra Angelico's versions of this scene were in the hortus conclusus style of enclosing the central figure in a garden. One such Fra Angelico version of this scene sees the word of God literally coming from the mouth of Gabriel on its way to Mary.

[B8] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In van Eyck's version of this scene, the angel has rainbow wings, while in El Greco's version he has just flown in on a cloud. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Annunciation):
    Identify this ubiquitous scene in Christian art, which depicts the archangel Gabriel informing Mary that she will have a son.
  Part 2 (ans: Isenheim Altarpiece):
    Gabriel looks rather displeased in the annunciation scene from this triptych by Matthias Grunewald. The original work has been split into three, and the first view is a particularly gruesome crucifixion.
  Part 3 (ans: Fra Angelico or Guido di Pietro):
    In one of this man's versions of the annunciation, which is set in a portico, Gabriel and Mary have their arms crossed in identical positions. That work, like his San Marco Altarpiece and many others, is housed in St. Mark's in Florence. He also did an Adoration of the Magi in collaboration with Fra Filippo Lippi.

[B9] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man depicted Sixtus II entrusting the treasure of the Church to emperor Valerian via the titular saint in his St. Lawrence Receiving the Treasures of the Church. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fra Angelico or Guido di Petro or Fra Giovanni da Fiesole or il Beato):
    Identify this Italian who also depicted Peter consecrating St. Laurence as part of his hefty commission to decorate the Niccoline Chapel.
  Part 2 (ans: Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary):
    Fra Angelico's most famous work is a depiction of this scene, in which the angel Gabriel appears to a sitting Virgin Mary. In the work, black lines are mysteriously present between the arcs of the loggia.
  Part 3 (ans: Transfiguration of Christ):
    In his depiction of this scene, Fra Angelico showed the heads of Moses and Elias under the outstretched arms of a radiant Jesus standing on a rock. It features three apostles kneeling in the foreground, and is just very, very yellow.
