=== STOCK CLUES: Peter Carey ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 29 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Peter Carey
  - In a novel by this author, a character mourning the loss of her colleague Matthew discovers the Victorian magnate Henry Brandling's diaries while rebuilding an automaton.
  - This author of The Chemistry of Tears wrote a novel inspired by Edmund Gosse's Father and Son in which a character is punished when Fanny Drabble bakes him a Christmas pudding.
  - In a novel by this author, Reverend Dennis Hasset advises an heir who receives a Prince Rupert's drop and Miriam Chadwick assaults a man with a fear of water after he journeys to Bellingen.
  - This author wrote a novel about the title gambling addicts making a bet to transport a glass cathedral.
  - For 10 points, name this Australian author of Oscar and Lucinda. [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Peter Carey
  - In a recent novel by this author, the protagonist and Dial settle into a commune after she tries to reunite him his mother who killed by a bomb. [PWR]
  - The fictional Efica is dominated by the "Reds" and "Blues" in another of this author's novel which centers on a disfigured child who is raised by the acting troupe (+) Feu Follet. [PWR]
  - In a third novel by this author of His Illegal Self, the protagonist helps his son Charles run his pet emporium after he had earlier been imprisoned for assaulting Goon Tse Ying.
  - In that novel by this man, Phoebe runs away to continue her affair with Annette Davidson after her father (*) Jack McGrath marries her off to the protagonist Herbert Badgery. [PWR]
  - This author of The Unusual Life of Tristan Smith described a bet between the two title characters concerned with moving a glass church across Australia.
  - For 10 points, identify this author of Illywhacker and Oscar and Lucinda. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Peter Carey
  - In one novel by this author, a Tamil man recounts killing a Japanese officer by poisoning half of a melon during the invasion of Malaya. [PWR]
  - In that novel by this author, Sarah discovers a man in a bike shop in Kuala Lumpur whose own literary creation may have kidnapped his daughter Tina. [PWR]
  - That novel about Christopher Chubb was inspired by the Ern (*) Malley hoax. [PWR]
  - In a different novel by this author, Mary is given money to emigrate to San Francisco from a series of crimes committed by her lover, who stays behind to await his mother Ellen's release from jail.
  - In that novel, the title character leads a band of outlaws who construct homemade armor in the outback.
  - For 10 points, name this author of My Life as a Fake and True History of the Kelly Gang, who also wrote about a bet to transport a glass church across Australia in Oscar and Lucinda. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Peter Carey
  - This author wrote about a man that is taught the art of disappearance by Goon Tse Ying, who warns him that every time he uses that trick, a dragon appears. [PWR]
  - He created the character of Theophilus Hopkins, who beats his 14 year old son for eating Christmas pudding. [PWR]
  - His other creations include Christopher Chubb - who runs a bicycle shop in Kuala Lumpur, and Bob McCorkle, a seven foot giant dressed in black; both of them appear in a novel that reimagines the (*) Ern Malley affair. [PWR]
  - A different one of his books is narrated by the 139 year old Herbert Badgery.
  - This author of My Life as a Fake and Illywhacker wrote a novel centering on a bet to transport a glass church to Bellingen, New South Wales.
  - For 10 points, name this Australian author of Oscar and Lucinda. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Peter Carey
  - One of this man's novels ends with gelignite being used to destroy a family car business and centers on a character who lives in a basement full of preserved reptiles, the self-styled angel Benny Catchprice.
  - Olivier de Garmont and his English servant, Parrot, each comment on the memoirs the other is writing in a recent novel by this author.
  - In one novel by this author of The Tax Inspector, the snake-dancer Leah Goldstein has a relationship with a character who claims to be 139 years old named Hebert Badgery.
  - He drew heavily on the style of the Jerilderie Letter for a novel whose title character is betrayed by Thomas Curnow before a shootout in Glenrowan.
  - Another novel by this author of Illywhacker centers on a bet between the two title characters about transporting a glass church across Australia.
  - For 10 points, name this author of True History of the Kelly Gang and Oscar and Lucinda. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a preface declaring "These poems are complete. There are no scoriae of unfulfilled intentions. Every note and revision has been destroyed. There is no biographical data." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ern Malley [accept James McAuley and Harold Stewart; prompt on just one of the two]):
    Name this poet, who wrote "I am still the black swan of trespass on alien waters" in "Durer: Innsbruck, 1495." This poet wrote "Poetry: the loaves and fishes" in "Sonnets for the Novachord" in The Darkening Ecliptic.
  Part 2 (ans: penguins [accept Angry Penguins or Penguin Island]):
    The fictional poet Ern Malley was created as a hoax against a journal named for Angry [these figures]. In a French novel, the shortsighted Abbot Mael baptizes some of these figures.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Carey):
    This Australian author, who fictionalized the Ern Malley hoax in My Life as a Fake, also wrote The True History of the Kelly Gang and Oscar and Lucinda.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Tim Winton's Blueback and Alexis Wright's Carpentaria are both novels in this style. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: magical realism [or magic realism; or realismo magico; reject "realism"; reject "magic"]):
    Name this style of a novel that opens with a man claiming to be 139 years old. This literary style associated with Latin American novels like The House of the Spirits integrates fantastical elements into an everyday world.
  Part 2 (ans: Illywhacker):
    The finger of Goon Tse Ying provides visions to the allegedly 139-year-old con-man Herbert Badgery in this novel. This magical realist novel ends with Hissao accidentally killing a rare bird he is smuggling.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Carey(The other novel is Oscar and Lucinda.)):
    Illywhacker is a novel by this author. The two main characters of another novel by this Australian author make a bet to transport a glass church to Reverend Hassett.

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The Stella Prize was established in 2013 as a counterpart to a prize named for this author over concerns that it underrepresented female authors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miles Franklin [or Stella Maria Sarah Miles Franklin] (The novel is My Brilliant Career.)):
    Name this author who wrote about the Delacy family in All That Swagger. Sybylla Mervyn turns down marriage proposals from Harold Beecham in another novel by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar and Lucinda (by Peter Carey)):
    The 1989 Miles Franklin Literary Award was won by this novel. One of this novel's title characters drowns after delivering a glass church to Reverend Hassett in New South Wales as part of a bet.
  Part 3 (ans: Oskar Schindler [accept Schindler's Ark or Schindler's List]):
    While Thomas Keneally won back-to-back Miles Franklin Awards, neither were for his novel titled for this man's "Ark." That novel tells the story of how this real-life man saved over 1,000 Polish Jews during the Holocaust.

[B4] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a nonfiction book titled for one of these animals, the author suggests replacing wheat with grasses in the chapter "Accepting History and Creating the Future." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: emus [or Dark Emu]):
    Name this animal that titles a nonfiction book subtitled "Black Seeds: Agriculture or Accident?" by Bruce Pascoe, in which he controversially argues that a certain ethnic group constructed dams and practiced aquaculture.
  Part 2 (ans: Miles Franklin [or Stella Maria Sarah Miles Franklin]):
    Two villains try to steal an Aboriginal sculpture in the novel Seven Emus by Xavier Herbert, who won a prize named for this author. This feminist author wrote about Sybylla Melvyn in My Brilliant Career.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Carey):
    Irene finds a baby's skull "as fragile and powdery as an emu egg" in this author's 2017 novel A Long Way From Home. Two characters bet over moving a glass church across Australia in his novel Oscar and Lucinda.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ellen van Neerven, an author from this country, included the chapter "I can't wait to meet my future genders" in their poetry collection Throat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Australia [or Commonwealth of Australia]):
    Name the country whose author Kim Scott has won its Miles Franklin Literary Award twice. An author from this country controversially appropriated native narrative viewpoints in a novel about Jimmie Blacksmith.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Carey [or Peter Philip Carey]):
    This Australian author sought Indigenous communities' feedback for the novel A Long Way From Home, which engages with colonialism. This author's novels include Oscar and Lucinda and True History of the Kelly Gang.
  Part 3 (ans:  Dark Emu [or Dark Emu: Black Seeds: Agriculture or Accident?; or Dark Emu: Aboriginal Australia and the Birth of Agriculture]):
    This 2014 non-fiction book re-assesses colonial accounts of Indigenous Australians and controversially argues that Aboriginal settlements were based on agriculture. This Bruce Pascoe book has the subtitle Black Seeds.

[B6] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by Alexis Wright, Oblivia Ethylene lives in a warship in a swamp and hears fairy tales about these animals before she marries Australia's first Indigenous president. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: swans [or Cygnus; prompt on birds or avians]):
    Name these animals, who, in one of those fairy tales, welcome an ugly duckling into their family when he realizes that he is one of these animals.
  Part 2 (ans: muteness [or equivalents like not speaking or refusing to speak]):
    After being raped and falling through a gum tree, Oblivia suffers from this condition in The Swan Book. The amnesiac child Simon Gillayley also has this condition in the novel The Bone People.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Carey [or Peter Philip Carey]):
    Catherine is tasked with assembling a mechanical duck that is revealed to be a swan in this author's novel The Chemistry of Tears. Hissao accidentally kills a rare bird at the end of this Australian author's novel Illywhacker.

[B7] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, Christopher Chubb invents the fictional working-class poet Bob McCorkle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Carey [or Peter Philip Carey] (The second novel is Oscar and Lucinda.)):
    Name this author of My Life as a Fake. In another novel by this author, two gamblers make a bet over transporting a glass church 400 kilometers through New South Wales.
  Part 2 (ans: Ern Malley [or Ernest Lalor Malley]):
    Carey's novel My Life as a Fake was inspired by a hoax in which James McAuley and Harold Stewart mocked an Australian journal by successfully submitting deliberately bad poems attributed to this fictitious author.
  Part 3 (ans: penguins [accept Penguin Books or Penguin Random House or Penguin Classics; accept Angry Penguins]):
    The Ern Malley poems were published by a journal named for "Angry" examples of these birds. A publisher named for this bird merged with Random House in 2013 and publishes a paperback "Classics" series.

[B8] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book ends with a depressing monologue about the narrator's unchanging future where she resigns herself to the fact that "we women cannot choose our lot." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: My Brilliant Career):
    Name this Miles Franklin novel about Sybylla Melvin, who refuses to marry Harold Beecham, written by the author of All that Swagger. It was followed by a sequel in which its title concept "goes Bung."
  Part 2 (ans: Lucinda Leplastrier (from Oscar and Lucinda by Peter Carey)):
    This other female Australian character is an heiress who bets a man that he cannot bring a glass church across the Outback.
  Part 3 (ans: governess):
    In My Brilliant Career, Sybylla is forced to work in this position for the extremely uncultured M'Swat family. Jane Eyre holds this position for the daughter of Mr. Rochester.

[B9] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's sequel, published 45 years later, describes its title concept going "Bung". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: My Brilliant Career):
    Name this novel about the tomboy Sybylla Melvyn, who wants to be a writer but is forced to work as a governess due to her drunkard father's debts. She turns down Harold Beecham's proposal, deciding to focus on the title concept.
  Part 2 (ans: (Stella Maria Sarah) Miles Franklin):
    My Brilliant Career is a novel by this Australian author, who also wrote about Irish immigrant Danny Delacy in All That Swagger. She names a literary award for the best novel or play depicting Australian life.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Carey):
    This author has won the Miles Franklin Award three times, for his novels Bliss, Jack Maggs, and Oscar and Lucinda. He is lauded as perhaps Australia's best candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature.

[B10] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was inspired by a hoax involving the literary magazine Angry Penguins to write the book My Life as a Fake. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Carey):
    Name this author who also wrote a 1988 book in which a female gambler bets that a male gambler cannot transport a glass church 400 kilometers up the coast.
  Part 2 (ans: Commonwealth of Australia):
    Carey, the author of Oscar and Lucinda, hails from this country, whose other authors include Patrick White.
  Part 3 (ans: libertine [or I, Libertine]):
    A funnier literary hoax involved Jean Shepherd making up a book whose title proclaimed the protagonist to be one of these people. Despite not existing, that book made various bestseller lists, although a later, real version had the classic cover caption "'Gadzooks!' quoth I, 'but here's a saucy bawd!'"

[B11] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about Michael Boone, an artist who becomes involved in the theft of a painting by his idol Jacques Leibovitz, in his novel Theft: A Love Story. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Carey [Peter Philip Carey]):
    Name this author who wrote another novel inspired by the real-life Ern Malley hoax, titled My Life as a Fake.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar and Lucinda):
    This Peter Carey novel follows the exploits of an Anglican priest and an industrial heiress who bet on whether a trip to bring a glass church to Bellingen will succeed.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Expectations):
    Peter Carey's novel Jack Maggs reworks this novel's character Abel Magwitch. Lloyd Jones wrote about Mr. Watts, who teaches this Dickens novel to villagers on war-torn Bougainville Island, in the novel Mister Pip.

[B12] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Lieutenant James McAuley and Harold Stuart imitated Max Harris and other "modernists" by adopting this persona and sending 16 poems to the editor of the magazine Angry Penguins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ern Malley [or Ernest Lalor Malley]):
    Name this fictional poet created in 1943 to illustrate the flaws in "surrealist" methods in creating poetry.
  Part 2 (ans: My Life as a Fake):
    The Ern Malley affair was satirized in this 2003 novel narrated by Sarah Wode-Douglass, in which Christopher Chubb creates the persona of "Bob McCorkle", who may or may not have become a real person.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Carey [or Peter Philip Carey]):
    My Life as a Fake was written by this Australian author of Oscar and Lucinda and Illywhacker.

[B13] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After the protagonist of this novel writes the name of her favorite literary character on the beach, some soldiers come and raze her village, thinking that the character's name was a rebel codeword. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mister Pip):
    Name this 2006 Man Booker finalist about Matilda's upbringing on Bougainville Island during a civil war. It was written by Lloyd Jones.
  Part 2 (ans: Great Expectations):
    Mister Pip is named for the protagonist of this Charles Dickens novel, Matilda's favorite book.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Carey):
    This author adapted Great Expectations from Abel Magwitch's perspective in the novel Jack Maggs. Herbert Badgery, a confidence man who claims to be 139 years old, narrates his novel Illywhacker.

[B14] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel ends at a party hosted by Belle Radclyffe, where Laura Trevelyan meets Mr. Judd, the only surviving companion of the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Voss):
    Identify this Patrick White novel whose title character, a German explorer, disappears while leading an expedition into the Australian outback.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Carey [or Peter Philip Carey]):
    This other Australian author fictionalized Charles Dickens as Tobias Oates in his Great Expectations reworking Jack Maggs, and wrote of a bet involving the transportation of a glass church in his novel Oscar and Lucinda.
  Part 3 (ans: Miles Franklin [or Stella Maria Sarah Miles Franklin]):
    All three of the aforementioned novels have won an Australian literary award named for this early-20th-century female author of All That Swagger and My Brilliant Career.

[B15] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literary forgeries, FTPE.
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Carey):
    In My Life as a Fake, this author converted the Ern Malley literary hoax into a novel in which Christopher Chubb creates the fake poet Bob McCorkle. He also wrote Illywhacker and Oscar and Lucinda.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Rowley):
    This imaginary monk was the creation of Thomas Chatterton, who "discovered" such "medieval" poems as "The Battle of Hastings" and "Aella: A Tragycal Enterlude."
  Part 3 (ans: Pictures of Fidelman):
    In the short story "Naked Nude," the title character of this Malamud collection is forced to create a forgery of Titian's Venus of Urbino to free himself from working in a brothel.
