=== STOCK CLUES: Thomas Cole ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 36 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas [accept Thomas Hill or Thomas Moran or Thomas Cole]
  - John Muir  commissioned an artist with this first name to take a trip to Alaska, where he painted Muir Glacier; that artist also depicted an event in Promontory, Utah, in The Last Spike.
  - After an expedition with Ferdinand Hayden, an artist with this first name helped inspire the creation of a "national playground" with his painting The Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone.
  - Some claim that an artist with this first name painted upside-down Hebrew letters reading "Shaddai" on a mountain in the background of one work.
  - A landscape painter with this first name had the last name Moran.
  - Luman Reed, the patron of an artist with this first name, encouraged that artist to go to Mount Holyoke and paint a river bend in the aftermath of a thunderstorm.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the artist of The Oxbow, who also painted The Course of Empire. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rome, Italy [accept Roma, Italia or the Prix de Rome] (The other paintings mentioned are Thomas Cole's The Arch of Nero, David's The Lictors Bring to Brutus the Body of His Son, and David's Intervention of the Sabine Women)
  - In June 2021, the Philadelphia Museum of Art was loaned a Thomas Cole painting of this city that the Newark Museum had deaccessioned.
  - A man modeled on Michelangelo's Isaiah sits in front of a statue of Justice in a painting set in this city.
  - A woman in a white dress throws out her hands to stop soldiers fighting in a painting set in this city, intended as a sequel to a Nicholas Poussin painting.
  - A man from this city sits on a klismos (KLIZ-moss) while soldiers carry a dead man in the background in one painting.
  - One artist saw the Temple of Paestum on a French Academy sponsored residency in this city.
  - In one painting, three distraught women watch three brothers from this city take swords.
  - For 10 points, Jacques-Louis David depicted Brutus is a painting set in what city? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Cole (The essay was by Ralph Waldo Emerson. The novel is The Last of the Mohicans.)
  - A 2021 Tyler Green book examines the concurrent creation of a painting by this artist and an essay that describes a similar landscape made up of "twenty or thirty farms." This artist's Landscape with Figures is one of four paintings based on a novel that this artist exhibited at the National Gallery of Design.
  - A woman falls at a shrine of Saint Mary in this artist's painting of the poem Il Penseroso.
  - This artist's frequent patron Luman Reed commissioned a work by them set "after a Thunderstorm" viewed from Mount Holyoke.
  - This artist stands on an outcrop with William Cullen Bryant in Asher Durand's painting Kindred Spirits.
  - A craggy mountaintop recurs in a series of five paintings by this artist bookended by The Savage State and Desolation.
  - For 10 points, name this Hudson River School painter of The Oxbow and The Course of Empire. [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Cole
  - In 2016, this artist's National Historic Site put on an exhibition celebrating the recreation of his studio, which was curated by Annette Blaugrund and subtitled "The Artist as Architect." Ithiel Town commissioned a painting by this artist that is framed by a green curtain.
  - A pyramid appears in that painting's background, whose title subject lies on a stack of books on top of a large column.
  - This artist is depicted conversing with William Cullen Bryant in his contemporary Asher Durand's painting Kindred Spirits.
  - This artist made a very small depiction of himself painting in a forest that overlooks a bend in the Connecticut River.
  - For 10 points, name this American artist who painted The Architect's Dream and The Oxbow in addition to founding the Hudson River School. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Cole <IB>
  - This artist showed a figure reclining on a pile of out-of-proportion books on top of a stone slab referencing that work's commissioner, Ithiel Town.
  - This artist showed a Gothic cathedral alongside Greek columns in The Architect's Dream and depicted a huge drinking vessel with boats sailing on the surface in The Titan's Goblet.
  - This artist is depicted standing on a rock next to the poet William Cullen Bryant in another artist's Kindred Spirits.
  - A series by this artist begins with a bare landscape titled The Savage State and depicts the growth and destruction of a city.
  - For 10 points, name this American artist of The Course of Empire, a member of the Hudson River School. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Cole
  - This artist's painting Cora Kneeling at the Feet of Tamenund depicts a scene from The Last of the Mohicans.
  - One of this man's paintings was rejected by a man with its title profession, Ithiel Town.
  - That painting by this artist depicts a man laying on a pillar in front of a pyramid and an enormous Greek (*) temple. [PWR]
  - In another of this man's works, boats sail in a massive earthen cup.
  - This artist of The Architect's Dream and The Titan's Goblet depicted a mossy pillar in the left of one piece, part of a series depicting the rise and fall of an imaginary city.
  - Another painting by this artist shows a gnarled, leaning tree in the foreground as the Connecticut River flows in the distance.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of The Course of Empire series and The Oxbow. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about depictions of the stages of life in Northern European art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Edvard Munch):
    This painter depicted people ranging from a young girl to an old woman in both Four Stages of Life and The Dance of Life. This artist also painted The Frieze of Life and The Scream.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilma af Klint [reject "Klimt"]):
    Stages ranging from childhood to old age are represented abstractly in this artist's series The Ten Largest. This Theosophist and member of The Five was inspired by a seance to start the massive series Paintings for the Temple.
  Part 3 (ans: boats [or ships] (Thomas Cole's series is The Voyage of Life.)):
    Caspar David Friedrich's The Stages of Life represents its title subject via five of these objects in the distance. A man in red and an angel in white use one of these objects in a Thomas Cole series allegorizing the stages of life.

[B2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A poem by this author inspired a landscape painting in which a forest funeral is surrounded by goats roaming around abandoned ruins and a farmer plowing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Cullen Bryant):
    Name this author who appears leaning on a cane as a companion points with a paintbrush at the Kaaterskill Falls in an 1849 painting commissioned for him by Jonathan Sturges.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    Asher Durand's painting Kindred Spirits depicts Bryant and this Hudson River School artist of The Titan's Goblet and The Architect's Dream.
  Part 3 (ans: Hiram Powers):
    Bryant was a friend of this artist, who derived his idea of naked bodies as the "unveiled soul" from Emanuel Swedenborg. Andrew Jackson praised this artist of Eve Tempted as "true to nature" for creating a toothless bust of him.

[B3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2019, a painting by this artist depicting three Native Americans watching railroad construction was exhibited with artworks by indigenous artists like Jaune Quick-to-See Smith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Asher (Brown) Durand):
    Name this artist of Progress. Jonathan Sturges commissioned a painting by this artist depicting a recently deceased man and referencing a eulogy based on John Keats's sonnet "O Solitude."
  Part 2 (ans: Kindred Spirits):
    In 2005, Alice Walton purchased this Asher Durand painting depicting another painter and the poet William Cullen Bryant standing on a ledge in the Catskill Mountains.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    Durand wrote that "if there be a man on earth whose location I envy... it is" this Catskills native who appears with Bryant in Kindred Spirits. This founder of the Hudson River School painted The Oxbow.

[B4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting, this man is depicted wearing a straw hat and holding a portfolio while talking to William Cullen Bryant on a ledge overlooking Kaaterskill Falls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    Name this man who is depicted at an easel between two rocks overlooking the Connecticut River near Mount Holyoke, Massachusetts in another painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Asher Durand depicted Kaaterskill Falls, near the Catskill Mountain House in New York state, in Kindred Spirits, a painting from this art movement, whose other members included Cole and Frederic Church.
  Part 3 (ans: Winslow Homer):
    This other artist depicted the cave behind Kaaterskill Falls in the engraving Under the Falls. His seascapes include West Point, Prout's Neck, and a depiction of a fisherman looking at a foggy sky as he rows back to his ship.

[B5] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the second painting in this series, a man points to a white castle in the sky as an angel stands to his right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this series of four allegorical paintings that depicts a man in a boat as the landscape around him changes.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    The Voyage of Life was painted by this British-American artist. This member of the Hudson River School also painted the five-part series The Course of Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last of the Mohicans [or The Last of the Mohicans: A Narrative of 1757]):
    Cole also painted a series of four works that depict scenes from this novel, including a "Landscape with Figures" and a painting of this novel's heroine dying while another man hangs off the edge of a cliff.

[B6] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Luman Reed commissioned a series by this artist that includes a painting subtitled The Arcadian or Pastoral State. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    Name this painter who also painted The Consummation of Empire and Destruction for that 5-painting series.
  Part 2 (ans: Borghese Gladiator [or Borghese Warrior; or Fighting Warrior]):
    Destruction prominently features a sculpture based on this real-life one, which served as the model for Watson's pose in Watson and the Shark. This sculpture by Agasias of Ephesus has a misleading name, as it actually depicts a Greek fighter, not a Roman one as suggested.
  Part 3 (ans: Los Angeles [or LA] (The artist is Ed Ruscha.)):
    A different 10-painting cycle titled The Course of Empire, inspired by Cole's, shows changes in the building tops of this city, which bear signs like "Tool & Die" and "Tech-Chem." The same artist showed a museum from this city "On Fire" from an aerial view.

[B7] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these figures is carved into the front of a boat in the first painting in a series. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: angels):
    Identify these figures, one of which waves goodbye to a boy dressed in red in a painting. One of these beings can barely be seen in the upper left of the painting Manhood, but is prevalent in the other three paintings in that series.
  Part 2 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    An angel follows a man through this artistic series that depicts a boy's life journey down a river in a golden boat. The last painting in this series, Old Age, shows a bearded man near death.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This founder of the Hudson River School created The Voyage of Life series and also included a small self-portrait of himself in the foreground of his painting The Oxbow.

[B8] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The creator of this series was inspired by a line from Childe Harold's Pilgrimage about 'wealth, vice, [and] corruption.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Course of Empire):
    Name this series of five paintings. The fourth work in this series, titled Destruction, includes a headless statue on the right-hand side, while the first shows a man chasing a deer through foliage.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This artist depicted the growth and collapse of a city in The Course of Empire, and painted another series titled The Voyage of Life.
  Part 3 (ans: rivers):
    Each of the nine combined entries in The Course of Empire and The Voyage of Life contains a depiction of one of these geographical features. Cole is regarded as the founder of a 'School' of painting named for one of these geographical features, the Connecticut one of which he painted in The Oxbow.

[B9] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the second painting in this series, a boy raises his hand towards a heavenly castle while standing in a boat that has an hourglass attached to it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this series of allegorical paintings in which a man's guardian angel leads him on eternal boat ride as he grows older.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    The Voyage of Life is by this American artist from the Hudson River School. He painted the aftermath of a thunderstorm rolling over an oxbow river in Massachusetts.
  Part 3 (ans: National Gallery of Art):
    Cole created a second set of The Voyage of Life for this museum, whose formidable American collection includes Edward Hicks's The Peaceable Kingdom, Winslow Homer's Breezing Up, and John Singleton Copley's Watson and the Shark.

[B10] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A pair of birds nest atop an ivy-covered column in this painting's foreground. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Desolation):
    Identify this gloomy painting depicting a ruined city overrun by nature. Its left background is lined by a colonnade of broken marble columns.
  Part 2 (ans: The Course of Empire):
    Desolation is the fifth and final painting in this series whose first work depicts a Savage State of nature untouched by man.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This member of the Hudson River School painted The Course of Empire and captured a lush landscape after a storm in The Oxbow.

[B11] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series' final entry shows an old man praying in a boat who is made joyous by the appearance of an angel, who gestures towards a light at the top right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this four-part allegorical painting series which depicts a journey down a river.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This Hudson River school artist of The Voyage of Life also created a five-part series showing the rise and fall of a classical civilization in The Course of Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: castles [prompt on "fortresses"]):
    A pair of Thomas Cole paintings, The Past and The Present, center on one of these buildings that has become ruined over time. Cranach the Elder painted a hunt taking place with one of these in the background near Hartenfels.

[B12] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting in this series, an old man draws in the dirt, and another depicts a woman throwing herself into a harbour to avoid the sexual advances from a soldier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Course of Empire):
    Name this series of five paintings inspired by Childe Harolde's Pilgrimage. Paintings in this series include The Savage State and Desolation and each picture depicts the same rocky outcrop with a precariously balanced boulder.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    The Course of Empire was painted by this founder of the Hudson River school, whose other paintings include The Voyage of Life series, The Titan's Goblet and The Oxbow.
  Part 3 (ans: Kindred Spirits):
    Thomas Cole was depicted with William Cullen Bryant on a promontory in the Catskill Mountains in this painting by Asher Durand.

[B13] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title structure of this painting stands on a hill dwarfing the tiny human village below. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Titan's Goblet ):
    Identify this painting which depicts what appears to be a gigantic fountain brimming with water.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole ):
    The Titan's Goblet was painted by this American landscapist better known for depicting the progression of civilization in his The Course of Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses [or Odysseus] and Polyphemus):
    According to the art historian Ellwood Parry, Cole's painting of The Titan's Goblet may have been influenced by his viewing of a J.M.W. Turner painting depicting these two mythological characters, the first of whom is mocking the second from aboard a ship.

[B14] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two tiny buildings and a temple can be seen on the brim of the title object, which contains water, in this artist's painting, The Titan's Goblet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    Name this American artist who painted a series of works showing a man on a boat accompanied by his guardian angel. That series, The Voyage of Life, ends with "Old Age" and the impending peace of death.
  Part 2 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Cole was a member of this art movement, which featured painters primarily creating natural landscapes. Other members included Frederic Church and Asher Durand, and it takes its name from a New York waterway.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Savage State"):
    Cole's other famous sequence of paintings, The Course of Empire, begins with this painting, which depicts a hunter, canoes, and several wigwams. It comes before the "Arcadian or Pastoral State" entry.

[B15] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first three paintings in this series depict an hourglass attached to a boat, and the second entry shows a heavenly castle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this four-painting series in which an angel guides a man through Childhood, Youth, Manhood, and Death.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This member of the Hudson River School painted The Voyage of Life and The Course of Empire series. He showed a winding river in The Oxbow.
  Part 3 (ans: The Titan's Goblet):
    In this Thomas Cole painting, several ships sail in an ocean contained in the oversized title object. Vegetation grows on the title object's brim, which contains a Greek temple.
