=== STOCK CLUES: Kindred Spirits ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2019, a painting by this artist depicting three Native Americans watching railroad construction was exhibited with artworks by indigenous artists like Jaune Quick-to-See Smith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Asher (Brown) Durand):
    Name this artist of Progress. Jonathan Sturges commissioned a painting by this artist depicting a recently deceased man and referencing a eulogy based on John Keats's sonnet "O Solitude."
  Part 2 (ans: Kindred Spirits):
    In 2005, Alice Walton purchased this Asher Durand painting depicting another painter and the poet William Cullen Bryant standing on a ledge in the Catskill Mountains.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    Durand wrote that "if there be a man on earth whose location I envy... it is" this Catskills native who appears with Bryant in Kindred Spirits. This founder of the Hudson River School painted The Oxbow.

[B2] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A straw-hat wearing figure in this painting points with a stick to the ravine at the center of this work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kindred Spirits):
    Name this painting which shows William Cullen Bryant and one of the artists recently deceased friends standing together on a rocky outcropping.
  Part 2 (ans: Asher Brown Durand):
    This artist commemorated his friend Thomas Cole in Kindred Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Like Durand, this later painter did some work in New Hampshire's Pinkham Notch region, though this non-Thomas Moran artist is probably better known for painting landscapes of the Rocky Mountains and scenes of western expansion like The Last of the Buffalo.

[B3] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting in this series, an old man draws in the dirt, and another depicts a woman throwing herself into a harbour to avoid the sexual advances from a soldier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Course of Empire):
    Name this series of five paintings inspired by Childe Harolde's Pilgrimage. Paintings in this series include The Savage State and Desolation and each picture depicts the same rocky outcrop with a precariously balanced boulder.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    The Course of Empire was painted by this founder of the Hudson River school, whose other paintings include The Voyage of Life series, The Titan's Goblet and The Oxbow.
  Part 3 (ans: Kindred Spirits):
    Thomas Cole was depicted with William Cullen Bryant on a promontory in the Catskill Mountains in this painting by Asher Durand.

[B4] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about works in the recently opened Crystal Bridges Museum of Art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Kindred Spirits):
    The museum's patron, Alice Walton, controversially bought this Asher Durand masterpiece from the New York Public Library. Thomas Cole and William Cullen Bryant stand on a cliff in this painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Arshile Gorky [or Vosdanig Manoug Atoian]):
    Eyeball-esque figures abound in this artist's Composition (Still Life), now owned by the museum. This teacher of Mark Rothko painted a portrait of Willem de Kooning titled Portrait of Master Bill.
  Part 3 (ans: John Singer Sargent):
    An open door separates Robert Louis Stevenson from his wife, who sits reclining on a chair, in a portrait in Crystal Bridges by this artist. He painted Frederick Law Olmsted holding a walking stick in the woods and a seated John D. Rockefeller.
