=== STOCK CLUES: The Voyage of Life ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Voyage of Life
  - In a letter to a friend, the artist of these works stated that he "still builds castles" and that he wishes to find gold by groping in those ruins. [PWR]
  - It opens with a treatment on "the Mysterious Past" and culminates with a depiction of "the ocean of Eternity." Demons hiding in dark clouds menace the central figure in one portion of these works, which includes many depictions of The Hours on the side of a golden structure.
  - (*) Angels descend cloudy steps from heaven in one of its sections, and its second painting features two ethereal domes that surround an airy castle, as well as a Guardian Spirit that accompanies a red-clothed figure throughout the ages.
  - For 10 points, Childhood, Youth, Manhood, and Old Age are the four parts of what allegorical series by Thomas Cole? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about depictions of the stages of life in Northern European art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Edvard Munch):
    This painter depicted people ranging from a young girl to an old woman in both Four Stages of Life and The Dance of Life. This artist also painted The Frieze of Life and The Scream.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilma af Klint [reject "Klimt"]):
    Stages ranging from childhood to old age are represented abstractly in this artist's series The Ten Largest. This Theosophist and member of The Five was inspired by a seance to start the massive series Paintings for the Temple.
  Part 3 (ans: boats [or ships] (Thomas Cole's series is The Voyage of Life.)):
    Caspar David Friedrich's The Stages of Life represents its title subject via five of these objects in the distance. A man in red and an angel in white use one of these objects in a Thomas Cole series allegorizing the stages of life.

[B2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the second painting in this series, a man points to a white castle in the sky as an angel stands to his right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this series of four allegorical paintings that depicts a man in a boat as the landscape around him changes.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    The Voyage of Life was painted by this British-American artist. This member of the Hudson River School also painted the five-part series The Course of Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last of the Mohicans [or The Last of the Mohicans: A Narrative of 1757]):
    Cole also painted a series of four works that depict scenes from this novel, including a "Landscape with Figures" and a painting of this novel's heroine dying while another man hangs off the edge of a cliff.

[B3] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these figures is carved into the front of a boat in the first painting in a series. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: angels):
    Identify these figures, one of which waves goodbye to a boy dressed in red in a painting. One of these beings can barely be seen in the upper left of the painting Manhood, but is prevalent in the other three paintings in that series.
  Part 2 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    An angel follows a man through this artistic series that depicts a boy's life journey down a river in a golden boat. The last painting in this series, Old Age, shows a bearded man near death.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This founder of the Hudson River School created The Voyage of Life series and also included a small self-portrait of himself in the foreground of his painting The Oxbow.

[B4] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the second painting in this series, a boy raises his hand towards a heavenly castle while standing in a boat that has an hourglass attached to it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this series of allegorical paintings in which a man's guardian angel leads him on eternal boat ride as he grows older.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    The Voyage of Life is by this American artist from the Hudson River School. He painted the aftermath of a thunderstorm rolling over an oxbow river in Massachusetts.
  Part 3 (ans: National Gallery of Art):
    Cole created a second set of The Voyage of Life for this museum, whose formidable American collection includes Edward Hicks's The Peaceable Kingdom, Winslow Homer's Breezing Up, and John Singleton Copley's Watson and the Shark.

[B5] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series' final entry shows an old man praying in a boat who is made joyous by the appearance of an angel, who gestures towards a light at the top right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this four-part allegorical painting series which depicts a journey down a river.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This Hudson River school artist of The Voyage of Life also created a five-part series showing the rise and fall of a classical civilization in The Course of Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: castles [prompt on "fortresses"]):
    A pair of Thomas Cole paintings, The Past and The Present, center on one of these buildings that has become ruined over time. Cranach the Elder painted a hunt taking place with one of these in the background near Hartenfels.

[B6] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first three paintings in this series depict an hourglass attached to a boat, and the second entry shows a heavenly castle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this four-painting series in which an angel guides a man through Childhood, Youth, Manhood, and Death.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This member of the Hudson River School painted The Voyage of Life and The Course of Empire series. He showed a winding river in The Oxbow.
  Part 3 (ans: The Titan's Goblet):
    In this Thomas Cole painting, several ships sail in an ocean contained in the oversized title object. Vegetation grows on the title object's brim, which contains a Greek temple.
