=== STOCK CLUES: The Titan's Goblet ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An Erwin Panofsky essay argues that this painting's title object was inspired by Norse mythology, in contrast to Theophilus Stringfellow Jr., who argued that it is a "microcosm of man." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Titan's Goblet):
    Name this landscape by Thomas Cole that depicts a vast sea, a Greek temple, and architectural ruins within and on the rim of the title object.
  Part 2 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Thomas Cole is a member of the school of painting named for this river in New York. Its other painters included Albert Bierstadt and Frederic Church.
  Part 3 (ans: J. M. W. Turner):
    In an article about The Titan's Goblet, Ellwood Parry argued that the painting was inspired by this artist's Ulysses Deriding Polyphemus; his other classical-inspired paintings include Ovid Banished from Rome.

[B2] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title structure of this painting stands on a hill dwarfing the tiny human village below. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Titan's Goblet ):
    Identify this painting which depicts what appears to be a gigantic fountain brimming with water.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole ):
    The Titan's Goblet was painted by this American landscapist better known for depicting the progression of civilization in his The Course of Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses [or Odysseus] and Polyphemus):
    According to the art historian Ellwood Parry, Cole's painting of The Titan's Goblet may have been influenced by his viewing of a J.M.W. Turner painting depicting these two mythological characters, the first of whom is mocking the second from aboard a ship.

[B3] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first three paintings in this series depict an hourglass attached to a boat, and the second entry shows a heavenly castle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Voyage of Life):
    Name this four-painting series in which an angel guides a man through Childhood, Youth, Manhood, and Death.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    This member of the Hudson River School painted The Voyage of Life and The Course of Empire series. He showed a winding river in The Oxbow.
  Part 3 (ans: The Titan's Goblet):
    In this Thomas Cole painting, several ships sail in an ocean contained in the oversized title object. Vegetation grows on the title object's brim, which contains a Greek temple.
