=== STOCK CLUES: Santiago Calatrava ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Santiago Calatrava
  - This architect used the form of a bird in flight for his new designs for the Gare de Lyon Saint-Exupery.
  - The outer "eyelid" of concrete can open to reveal a pool in an IMAX theater designed by this architect in the City of Arts and Sciences.
  - His own marble sculpture of a twisting human form was the basis for a skyscraper by him constructed of twisted pentagonal segments in Malmo, Sweden.
  - One of his buildings contains wing-like sunscreens called the Burke Brise Soleil, and is part of a building whose chancel is shaped like the prow of a ship.
  - That building, Windhover Hall, is part of an art complex that also includes the Kahler Building and Eero Saarinen's War Memorial Center.
  - This architect designed the Turning Torso Building and the Quadracci Pavillion at the Milwaukee Art Museum.
  - For 10 points, name this Spanish architect known for cantilever spar cable-stayed bridges such as the Puente del Alamillo in Seville and the Chords Bridge in Jerusalem. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect designed the Bilbao Airport's main terminal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Santiago Calatrava):
    Name this Spanish architect known for his curving structures. His more famous structures include the harp-like Puente del Alamillo in Seville and the Milwaukee Art Museum.
  Part 2 (ans: Sweden):
    Calatrava designed the Turning Torso, a tower that resembles a twisted spinal column, in this country's city of Malmo. Nicodemus Tessin the Younger designed many Baroque buildings in this country's capital of Stockholm.
  Part 3 (ans: railway station (accept train station or equivalents; prompt on partial answer)):
    Calatrava has also designed many of these buildings. His early work included remodeling one of them named Stadelhofen in Zurich as well as a French one at Lyon St-Exupery Airport.

[B2] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: A "Sports City" being designed by this architect will consist of two symmetrical fan-shaped pavilions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Santiago Calatrava):
    Name this architect, whose completed designs include the Turning Torso in Malmo and the World Trade Center Transportation Hub in New York City.
  Part 2 (ans: Italy [or Italian Republic; or Repubblica Italiana]):
    The "Sports City" will be part of a university campus in this country, where the partial collapse of the Morandi bridge resulted in multiple redesign proposals by Calatrava. Instead, reconstruction is now being carried out by this country's native son Renzo Piano.
  Part 3 (ans: art museums [prompt on museum]):
    Calatrava also designed a "City of Arts and Sciences" for Valencia which is actually one of these types of locations. Calatrava designed the Quadracci Pavilion for another one of these institutions in Milwaukee, which is housed in a War Memorial built by Eero Saarinen.

[B3] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: International style adopters of these features took inspirations from the similar mashrabiya found in vernacular Arabic architecture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: brise soleil ("BREEZE soh-LAY") [prompt on sun breakers]):
    Give the two-word French language term for architectural elements put in place to shade buildings and prevent overheating. Le Corbusier popularized the use of concrete examples of these features in the designs for his many buildings in Chandigarh.
  Part 2 (ans: Paris, France):
    A grid of 240 motor-controlled apertures form a hightech brise soleil in Jean Nouvel's design for the Arab World Institute in this city. The Centre Pompidou is another example of "High Tech" architecture in this European city.
  Part 3 (ans: SantiagoCalatrava [or Santiago Calatrava Valls]):
    Curvy aluminum brise soleils shade many of the buildings in Valencia's City of Art and Sciences, a complex designed by Felix Candela and this Spanish architect also known for designing the Turning Torso tower in Malmo.

[B4] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A hollow cylinder covered with grief messages was erected near one of these buildings in Atocha, Madrid to commemorate terrorist attacks on that building of this type. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: railway stations [or train stations; accept railway hubs; prompt on Grand Central station or Grand Central terminal; prompt on terminal or station building or transportation hub]):
    Name this type of structure. Paul Cesar Helleu ("ay-loo") painted a mural of the night sky on the roof of one of these buildings; Walter Gropius and Pietro Belluschi designed the Pan Am Building next to that building of this type.
  Part 2 (ans: Paris):
    The Musee d'Orsay ("myoo-ZAY dor-SAY") in this city was converted from a train station into a museum to serve as a median between the Centre Pompidou and the Louvre.
  Part 3 (ans: Santiago Calatrava Valls):
    This Spanish architect built an underground arcade beneath the Zurich Stadelhofen and a "forest" of steel trees above Lisbon's Gare do Oriente. This creator of many cantilever bridges was criticized for his poorly-functioning World Trade Center transportation hub.

[B5] 2014 ACF Fall (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man designed the similar Bridge of Strings in Jerusalem and Sundial Bridge at Turtle Bay in Redding, California. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Santiago Calatrava Valls):
    Name this controversial architect, known for his cantilever-spar cable-stayed bridges, who designed the tallest building in Sweden, the Turning Torso in Malmo.
  Part 2 (ans: Antoni Gaudi i Cornet):
    This other architect designed the Park Guell and the Casa Mila as well as the still-unfinished Sagrada Familia.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Spain [or Reino de Espana]):
    Both Santiago Calatrava and Antoni Gaudi were born in this country.
