=== STOCK CLUES: Steichen ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 15 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Edward Steichen [or Eduard Jean Steichen] (The actress in the third sentence is Gloria Swanson.)
  - At age 14, Stephen Shore cold-called this photographer and sold three photos to begin his career. [PWR]
  - This avid horticulturist took the photo Heavy Roses and exhibited many new breeds of delphinium. [PWR]
  - This photographer likened an actress to a leopardess behind shrubbery in a photo of her face with a piece of black lace suspended in front of it. [PWR]
  - This photographer won an Oscar for directing the World War II documentary The (*) Fighting Lady. [PWR]
  - Inspired by both Whistler's Nocturnes and an earlier photo of the same subject, this photographer used gum bichromate in his image of the Flatiron Building.
  - This native Luxembourger shot The Pond-Moonlight and chose 503 photos from 68 countries for a 1955 event at the MoMA.
  - For 10 points, Alfred Stieglitz co-founded the Photo-Secessionist gallery 291 with what curator of the exhibition The Family of Man? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Edward [accept Edward Steichen or Edward Jean Steichen; accept Edward Weston or Edward Henry Weston; accept Edward S. Curtis or Edward Sheriff Curtis]
  - It's not Timothy, but an artist with this first name worked with Alexander Upshaw on the western images Canyon De Chelly and Old Eagle.
  - Another artist with this first name depicted a nude Charis Wilson sitting on a blanket in Santa Monica. [PWR]
  - An artist with this first name was funded by J. [PWR]
  - P. [PWR]
  - Morgan to create the photobook The North American Indian and had the surname Curtis.
  - Another artist with this first name pioneered adding color with layers of (*) gum bichromate print, and curated the MoMA exhibition The Family of Man. [PWR]
  - This is the first name of a Pictorialist who photographed the "still-lifes" Nautilus and Pepper No. 30, as well as another who created The Pond-Moonlight and The Flatiron.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of photographers surnamed Weston and Steichen. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: With Alfred Stieglitz, this photographer co-founded the Little Galleries of the Photo-Secession, later known as Gallery 291. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Steichen (sty-KEN)):
    Name this photographer who captured the Flatiron Building at night behind some tree branches and curated the exhibit The Family of Man.
  Part 2 (ans: pictorialism [or pictorialist photography]):
    Steichen used gum bichromate to color The Pond-Moonlight, exemplifying this style popular among Photo-Secessionists that, unlike straight photography, involves manipulating photos for aesthetic effect.
  Part 3 (ans: fashion industry [or clothing industry; or apparel industry]):
    Steichen also pioneered the use of photography for magazines in this industry. Steichen was chief photographer for Vogue and Vanity Fair, which focus on this industry.

[B2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist, whose 1911 pictures of Paul Poiret's gowns for Art et Decoration magazine were the first modern fashion photographs, was chief photographer for Vogue and Vanity Fair in much of the 20s and 30s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    Name this curator of the MoMA's The Family of Man exhibit, whose commercial turn was bemoaned by fellow Photo-Secessionist Alfred Stieglitz.
  Part 2 (ans: beauty marks [or beauty spots]):
    Steichen's photograph of Gloria Swanson behind a veil does not show this trademark facial feature of hers. A celebrated Vogue cover only shows Jean Patchett's eye, lips, and one of these moles whose two-word name reflects their attractive status.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Factor [or Maksymilian Faktorowicz]):
    Swanson was a client of this Polish-Jewish popularizer of the noun "make-up," who used a "beauty micrometer" to analyze faces. His namesake company moved a drawn "X" from inside its logo to the end.

[B3] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about artists serving as subjects for photographers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philippe Halsman):
    Splashing water in the shape of a waterfall obscures the title artist who can be seen floating next to three black cats and one of his own paintings in "Dali Atomicus", a work by this Lithuanian-American photographer.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    This American photographer used a sculpture by his friend Auguste Rodin designed as a monument to Balzac for his photograph Towards the Light, Midnight. This artist co-founded the Photo-Secessionist movement with Alfred Stieglitz and organized the influential Family of Man exhibit in 1955.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Matisse):
    While visiting his villa at La Reve, Henri Cartier-Bresson photographed this other artist of Harmony in Red and The Dance as he sat amongst his pet birds in his studio.

[B4] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Narrator Robert Taylor informs the viewers of one of this man's films that all the servicemen shown have been killed, in The Fighting Lady. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    Name this photographer of The Pond-Moonlight who co-founded the Photo Secession movement with Alfred Stieglitz.
  Part 2 (ans: artists [or sculptors or painters; prompt on Henri Matisse by asking "what profession?"] (The second photograph is Rodin with His Sculptures "Victor Hugo" and "The Thinker".)):
    Edward Steichen photographed a person of this profession with "La Serpentine" in 1909. Another Steichen photograph depicts the dark profile of a man of this profession sitting pensively in its right foreground.
  Part 3 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Steichen was the head of the Department of Photography at this city's Museum of Modern Art, where he curated his exhibit The Family of Man. Diane Arbus photographed a child with a toy hand grenade in a park in this city.

[B5] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man photographed Marcel Duchamp's Fountain using a Marsden Hartley painting as a background. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred Stieglitz):
    Name this husband of Georgia O'Keefe, who photographed working-class passengers boarding a ship in The Steerage
  Part 2 (ans: Edward (Jean) Steichen):
    Like Stieglitz, this photographer photographed the Flatiron Building, but produced a blue background in his photograph using a gum bichromate solution. He curated the first Family of Man exhibit at the MoMA.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Strand):
    This man used a special camera that shot ninety degrees off from the opposite direction in which it was pointed to take candid photographs such as one of a beggar holding a sign saying "Blind". His photograph Wall Street shows people dwarfed by the dark rectangular niches of the J.P. Morgan building.

[B6] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: His works infuenced by Swedenborg include a picture of a bountiful farm titled Peace and Plenty and his three-part series The Triumph of the Cross. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Inness):
    Name this American artist, a leader of the Tonalist school of neutral-colored atmospheric landscape painting, who did many landscapes of Montclair New Jersey at the end of his life including The Home of the Heron.
  Part 2 (ans: James McNeill Whistler):
    George Inness led one branch of American tonalism, while the other branch was informally led by this American expatri-ate who sued John Ruskin in a famous libel trial and painted several "nocturnes".
  Part 3 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    The neutral palette of Tonalist painting later infuenced this photographer whose The Pond - Moonlight fetched the highest price for any photograph at auction. He also designed the cover art for the journal Camera Work.

[B7] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer's The Pond - Moonlight, which had to be manually colorized with gums, once held the title of most expensive photograph ever. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Jean Steichen):
    Name this American photographer who created the MoMA exhibit The Family of Man and helped create the gallery 291 with Alfred Stieglitz.
  Part 2 (ans: Migrant Mother):
    Steichen's The Family of Man exhibit featured this photograph by Dorothea Lange of Florence Owens Thompson during the Great Depression.
  Part 3 (ans: Camera Work):
    Edward Steichen was the most oft-featured artist in this quarterly journal of fine art photography that was founded and published by Alfred Stieglitz.

[B8] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer's early work included pictures of gowns designed by the couturier Paul Poiret. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Jean Steichen):
    Identify this American photographer who curated the Family of Man exhibition at the MoMA in 1955 and assisted Alfred Stieglitz in setting up the 291 Gallery, which introduced works by Matisse, Picasso, and others to the United States.
  Part 2 (ans: Camera Work):
    Steichen's work was often printed in this quarterly photographic journal published by Alfred Stieglitz.
  Part 3 (ans: fashion photography):
    Steichen is regarded as a pioneer in this photography genre because of his work for the Conde Nast Publications Vogue and Vanity Fair. Another photographer in this genre, Richard Avedon, created several advertisements for Christian Dior.

[B9] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An early color photo taken by this man at Mamaroneck, New York became what was then the most expensive photograph ever sold. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    Name this artist of The Pond - Moonlight, a major Pictorialist photographer whose other works include The Flatiron. He also took war photography during both World Wars and helped curate the 291 gallery.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Stieglitz):
    This Pictorialist artist of Spring Showers, the Coach, and Winter, Fifth Avenue also organized the 291 art gallery. He may be better known for The Steerage and many portraits of his wife Georgia O'Keeffe.
  Part 3 (ans: Camera Work):
    After serving as editor for Camera Notes, Stieglitz began publishing this photography journal, which featured artists like Steichen and Paul Strand. The Steerage was first featured in this journal.

[B10] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It became the world's most expensive photograph when it was sold for 2.9 million in 2006. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Pond-Moonlight):
    Name this pictorialist photograph, which was taken at a location in Mamaroneck, New York at a certain time of day. Its photographer manually layered light-sensitive gums over the negative to create the impression of color.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    The Pond-Moonlight was created by this photographer, who pioneered fashion photography for Vogue and Vanity Fair in the 1920s and 30s. He also organized The Family of Man exhibition at the Modern Museum of Art.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    This modern photographer depicted a naked John Lennon lying in bed with a clothed Yoko Ono during her time as the chief photographer for Rolling Stone. Her many pictures of celebrities include one of Demi Moore holding her pregnant stomach for Vanity Fair.
