=== STOCK CLUES: Boris Pasternak ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Boris Pasternak
  - This writer described a fellow poet's eye as "the spark that shakes the wire" and which "makes all things quiver with the past." This poet asked, "Is it all real?
  - Is it time now to drift away?" in "The End," the last section of a poetry collection that opens with, "In Memory of the Demon," and is titled (*) My Sister - Life.
  - The title character of a novel by this author falls in love with a woman who shot Komarovsky at a Christmas party.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author who wrote about Lara's relationship with Yuri in the novel Doctor Zhivago. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This set of works likens the process of appreciating loneliness to puberty before stating "What we need, after all, is only: solitude." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Letters to a Young Poet [or Briefe an einen jungen Dichter]):
    Name this collection of ten writings, one of which advises "Go into yourself. Find out the reason" when attempting to answer the question "Must I write?"
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    Letters to a Young Poet is by this poet of "Archaic Torso of Apollo."
  Part 3 (ans: Marina Tsvetaeva AND Boris Pasternak [or Marina Ivanovna Tsvetaeva and Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    In the summer of 1926, Rilke traded letters with these two poets, who were semi-romantic long-term correspondents. One of them wrote the poem "New Year's Greetings" in honor of Rilke and many poems praising the White Army, while the other wrote a line about "life - in a flood of spring rain."

[B2] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's collections Mileposts and The Girlfriend respectively describe her affairs with the fellow authors Osip Mandelstam and Sophia Parnok. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Tsvetaeva ("tsʼveh-TAI-eh-vuh") [or Marina Ivanovna Tsvetaeva]):
    Name this Russian poet who praised the White Army in her verse cycle The Swans' Encampment.
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    In the 1920s, Tsvetaeva engaged in a detailed correspondence with Rainer Maria Rilke and this Russian author of Doctor Zhivago.
  Part 3 (ans:  Requiem):
    One of Tsvetaeva's poetic cycles was dedicated to Anna Akhmatova ("akh-MAH-tuh-vuh"), who wrote this elegy about the Great Terror. Like Poem Without a Hero, Akhmatova spent decades writing this poem.

[B3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A writer addressed this political party in a poem that ends, "You have made me indestructible because with you I do not end in myself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Communist Party of Chile [or the Chilean Communist Party; or the Partido Comunista de Chile; or the PCCh; prompt on Communist Party by asking "in which country?"]):
    Identify this party that included three of its country's four "great poets." A poet from this party who won the 1971 Nobel Prize obliquely attacked a creacionismo opponent with the assertion, "The poet is not a little god."
  Part 2 (ans: Pablo Neruda):
    This poet's election as senator and official entry into the Chilean Communist Party overlapped with his completion of "The Heights of Machu Picchu."
  Part 3 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    Neruda was widely criticized for failing to condemn the foreign power that forced this writer to reject the 1958 Nobel Prize. This writer's best-known poem opens, "My sister - Life's overflowing today."

[B4] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The dedication of this poem mentions "Siberian snows" and how "The sun downed, the Neva got mistier." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Requiem (by Anna Akhmatova)):
    Identify this long elegy about the Great Terror, during which the author's husband was killed. This poem ends by describing how "mute ships sail along the Neva."
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    Anna Akhmatova's Requiem was shared via samizdat. The first full-length novel to be shared via samizdat was by this man, who included "The End" and "In Memory of the Demon" in his collection My Sister Life.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or "Stalin Epigram;" or Iosif Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzugashvili]):
    Anna Akhmatova's Requiem memorializes the victims of the purges of this Soviet leader. Osip Mandelstam mocked this leader in a namesake "epigram."

[B5] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One poem by this author claims that "a miracle is a miracle...it overtakes us...unawares," while in another Christ claims that "like a caravan of barges, / The centuries will come floating from the darkness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    Name this author, whose most famous poem describes "spring rain shattering itself like glass" and compares "the timetable on the Kamyshin line" to the Bible as "the carriage throws window-light over the steppe."
  Part 2 (ans: Dr. Yuri Zhivago):
    Pasternak framed twenty-five poems including "Hamlet," "Miracle," and "The Garden of Gethsemane" as the works of this doctor, and placed them at the end of a novel titled for him.
  Part 3 (ans: life [or "My Sister Life" or "Sestra moya zhizin"]):
    One of Pasternak's poems states that this thing is "overflowing today" - that poem called "My Sister" [this thing] titles one of his collections. "Hamlet" ends by saying that this thing "is not a walk across a field."

[B6] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify these authors of novels set in the Soviet Union, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    This author of Heart of a Dog wrote about Professor Woland's visit to Moscow in The Master and Margarita.
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    The title physician's love for Lara is portrayed in this author's Doctor Zhivago.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Koestler):
    The trial and execution of Rubashov under the regime of No. 1 are detailed in this author's novel Darkness at Noon.

[B7] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a cycle of poems, alternately called The Girlfriend or The Mistake, that was inspired by her affair with Sofia Parnok. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Tsvetaeva (tsveh-"TIE"-eh-vuh)):
    Name this bisexual Russian poet who hanged herself after her husband and daughter were arrested for espionage by the Soviet regime. She wrote pro-White Army works such as "The Swans' Encampment."
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    Tsvetaeva was friends with this author and wanted to name her son after him. The CIA bought and distributed thousands of copies of this author's novel Doctor Zhivago in order to make him a Nobel Prize contender.
  Part 3 (ans: The Ratcatcher):
    This long Tsvetaeva poem, comprising six cantos and subtitled "A Lyrical Satire," is a reworking of the Pied Piper of Hamelin legend that savages the Bolsheviks.

[B8] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The manifesto of this movement demands the right "to enlarge the scope of the poet's vocabulary with arbitrary and derivative words." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russian Futurism [accept word forms]):
    Name this literary movement whose members engaged in language creation experiments known as zaum, and issued the manifesto "A Slap in the Face of Public Taste." Vladimir Mayakovsky emerged as co-leader of its Russian offshoot.
  Part 2 (ans: Velimir Khlebnikov [or Victor Vladimirovich Khlebnikov]):
    This co-creator of zaum used it to formulate so-called languages of the stars, the gods, and the birds, which make up the bulk of his cosmic drama Zangezi. His poem "Snake Train" serves as the prologue to the Futurist opera Victory over the Sun.
  Part 3 (ans: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    The Moscow-based Futurist society Tsentrifuga encouraged this young poet to publish his inaugural collection Twin in the Clouds. He wrote the poem "Hamlet" from the point of view of his character Yuri Zhivago.

[B9] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's "Winter Night" repeats the lines "The candle burns upon the desk, the candle burns." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    Name this author of The Last Summer and My Sister, Life who wrote translations of many Shakespeare plays using contemporary Russian dialogue.
  Part 2 (ans: Doctor Zhivago):
    Pasternak's best known work is this novel in which Yuri tries not to love Lara during tempestuous times in Russia.
  Part 3 (ans: Tanya):
    In the Epilogue to Doctor Zhivago, Nika and Mischa, who are fighting in the Red Army, meet this character who says her mother abandoned her to marry Komarov. Nika and Mischa conclude she is Lara and Yuri's daughter.

[B10] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poetry cycle opens with a section titled "Instead of a Foreword." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Requiem [or Rekviem]):
    Name this collection of ten short poems, inspired by the author's experiences with the arrest of her son Lev Gumilev and other events of the State Terror under Stalin.
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreevna Akhmatova]):
    Requiem is a collection by this female Russian poet whose uncharacteristically long Poem Without a Hero is narrated by a woman in Sheremet'ev Palace.
  Part 3 (ans: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    This other 20th-century Russian poet included the garden and mirror cycles in his collection My Sister, Life. In the West, he's better known for writing Doctor Zhivago.

[B11] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the epilogue, we learn that this character's daughter Tania is a day laborer who is protected by his half-brother Evgraf. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dr. Yuri Zhivago [or Dr. Yuri Zhivago]):
    Identify this poet who goes to Yuriatin to meet his true love, despite her marriage to Pasha Antipov, in a certain novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    Dr. Zhivago and his love Lara were created by this Russian writer, who was forced by the USSR to decline the Nobel Prize in Literature.
  Part 3 (ans: The Highway and Forest Brotherhood [or Forest Brothers]):
    For eighteen months, Dr. Zhivago is held captive by Red Partisans who are part of this organization, which is led by the Bolshevik Liberius.

[B12] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet described meadows "blurred by a lilac heat" in a place where "cathedral shadows swirled" in his poem "In the Wood". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    Name this poet who described life "overflowing today, / spring rain shattering itself like glass". His most famous poem opens "February. Take ink and weep".
  Part 2 (ans: Doctor Zhivago):
    Pasternak is better known for this novel, in which the title physician falls in love with the nurse Lara during the outbreak of the Russian Revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreevna Gorenko]):
    Pasternak dedicated a poem to this Soviet author of Poem Without a Hero, who wrote poems about the arrest of her son and husband in her collection Requiem.

[B13] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote that the clocks ticking does not trouble happy people, concluding, "sleep, it seems, is all this couple is up to," in his poem "In the Woods." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    Name this poet of the collections My Sister, Life and On Early Trains. The title character concludes that "to live a life is not to cross a field" in his poem "Hamlet."
  Part 2 (ans: Doctor Zhivago):
    Pasternak also wrote this novel about a physician in love with Lara Antipov.
  Part 3 (ans: Viktor Komarovsky [or Viktor Komarovsky]):
    In Doctor Zhivago, Lara is tormented by the sexual relationship she was pressured into by this man, a corrupt lawyer who once worked for Yuri Zhivago's father Andrei.

[B14] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's wife Nadezhda wrote the memoir Hope Against Hope. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Osip Emilyevich Mandelstam):
    Name this author who was exiled to Cherdyn and Voronezh for writing "The Stalin Epigram." This Acmeist also wrote The Noise of Time and the poetry collection Stone.
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak):
    Mandelstam recited the Stalin epigram at the house of this author, who wrote the poetry collection My Sister-Life, and was forced to decline the Nobel Prize awarded for his novel Doctor Zhivago.
  Part 3 (ans: Anatoly Naumovich Rybakov):
    This long-censored author recounted Stalin's rise to power and the murder of Sergey Kirov in his trilogy Children of the Arbat. He also wrote popular children's books such as The Dirk.
