=== STOCK CLUES: Griffith ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 55 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 20 found, 60 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jack London [or John Griffith Chaney] (The story in the first line is "Moon-Face.")
  - In a story by this author, John Claverhouse is reduced to "a big hole in the ground" after the narrator's dog Bellona fetches him a stick of dynamite. [PWR]
  - A story by this author ends as a man slips into the "most comfortable and satisfying sleep he had ever known." Tom King blames his meal of bread and flour gravy for his loss in a boxing match in this author's story "A Piece of Steak." In a story by this author, man stops to enjoy his lunch of bacon and biscuits at the forks of the (*) Henderson while pondering the advice of the old-timer on Sulphur Creek. [PWR]
  - That man realizes his hands are too stiff to kill his dog after a load of snow from a spruce tree destroys the title object.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "To Build a Fire" who also described the sled dog Buck in The Call of the Wild. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jack London [or John Griffith Chaney]
  - The protagonist of a novel by this author tells his three grandchildren how the title calamity occurred during the presidency of Morgan the Fifth. [PWR]
  - In the frame story of a different novel by this author, the scholar Anthony Meredith reads a manuscript in the year 2600. [PWR]
  - This author of The Scarlet Plague wrote a novel about a socialist Oligarchy in the United States which is opposed by Avis Everhard.
  - A captain in a novel by this author is set adrift by his vengeful brother (*) Death. [PWR]
  - The seal hunting ship Ghost is from a novel by this author following Humphrey Van Weyden.
  - This author of The Iron Heel wrote a novel in which the protagonist kills Yeehats to avenge John Thornton before joining a wolf pack in the Yukon.
  - For 10 points, The Sea-Wolf was written by what author of The Call of the Wild? [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Answer: The Hollywood Sign [accept the Hollywoodland Sign; prompt on Griffith Park]
  - Most visitors to this landmark start from a point named for the volunteer Charlie Turner before going through the hunting ground of a mountain lion named P-22 in the Berlin Forest.
  - A once-lost part of this landmark was sold by Dan Bliss on eBay in 2005, after which it was repainted by the artist Bill Mack.
  - Tom LaBonge petitioned Garmin to redirect satnav systems away from this landmark, instead directing some users to the nearby Ovation shopping mall.
  - A 1978 replacement of this landmark with an all-steel structure was partly funded by Hugh Hefner.
  - This Beachwood Canyon landmark stands on land owned by Griffith Park.
  - This landmark located on Mount Lee, high in the Santa Monica hills, originally promoted a housing developed with the suffix "LAND." For 10 points, name this Los Angeles landmark that represents a West Coast film industry. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jack London [or John Griffith Chaney]
  - Tobias Wolff recalls changing his first name in honor of this author in his memoir This Boy's Life. [PWR]
  - An autobiographical novel by this author includes the first recorded use of hallucinating pink elephants, a stereotypical trope for alcoholism, and discusses "white logic." This author owns a place across the valley from Frank Martin's "drying out" facility in Raymond Carver's story "Where I'm Calling From." In a story by this author of John Barleycorn, a character repeatedly remembers the advice of a man from (*) Sulphur Creek. [PWR]
  - In that short story by this author, a man dies after snow falling from a tree causes him to fail to perform the title action while living in the Yukon.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "To Build a Fire" and The Call of the Wild. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 MUSES II (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: D. W. Griffith [or David Wark Griffith]
  - In a film by this director, a king is delivered a white rose in a chariot pulled by doves while a man known as the "Rhapsode" leads an army against him. [PWR]
  - In an epic by this director, a peon of the "Musketeer of the Slums" is sentenced to death for murder with the judge proclaiming the recurring line, "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth." An image of the Holy City is shown next to a couple honeymooning by the sea at the end of an epic film by this director that contains the proclamation, "Dare we dream of a golden day when the bestial War shall rule no more." Theodore Huff called one of this director's films a "film (*) fugue" for its interweaving of four separate story lines bridged by shots of a woman rocking a cradle. [PWR]
  - "The Ride of the Valkyries" plays during the climax of this director's most famous film as men race to save a woman played by Lillian Gish from the doctor Silas Lynch.
  - That film by this director was the first movie to be screened at the White House.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Intolerance who is widely credited with restarting the KKK with his 1915 film Birth of a Nation. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: parks [accept Parc de la Villette, Parc Guell, Griffith Park, or Central Park]
  - Jacques Derrida's deconstructionism inspired one of these places designed at the site of former Parisian slaughterhouses by Bernard Tschumi .
  - The trencadis , or "chopped," method of mosaic was used in one of these places designed by Josep Maria Jujol  for a namesake count.
  - A Hypostyle Room with 86 Doric columns is behind a sculpture of a salamander in one of these places overlooking (*) Barcelona that was commissioned by Eusebi Guell . [PWR]
  - Calvert Vaux  helped design one of these places that is home to Bethesda Fountain.
  - An observatory is found in one of these places named Griffith in Los Angeles.
  - For 10 points, Frederick Law Olmsted designed a "Central" example of what sort of public facility in New York City? [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: D. W. Griffith
  - A film by this director transitions from a close-up of a woman's hand grasping her baby's sock to an unexplained image of Jesus surrounded by children. [PWR]
  - In a film by this director, a request to "put a smile on yer face, can't yer?" prompts a character to press her fingers into her cheeks to turn her mouth upwards. [PWR]
  - This director used a 100-foot crane to film women moving in lines down a massive staircase below colossal pillars topped with elephant statues. [PWR]
  - In the most famous scene of a film by this director, a girl spins about in frantic horror as she hides in a closet from her axe-wielding father, who is killed by a (*) Chinese Buddhist missionary after beating her to death. [PWR]
  - A film by this director includes shots of a woman rocking a cradle between its storylines, which include the St.
  - Bartholomew's Day Massacre and the fall of Babylon.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Broken Blossoms and Intolerance, the latter of which responded to criticism of his Birth of a Nation. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney]
  - Though it is now understood that this writer died of uremia aggravated by a morphine overdose, several older sources mysteriously report his death as a suicide. [PWR]
  - The Barnum and Bailey Circus temporarily stopped trained animal acts as a result of lobbying from a club named for this author, who raised public awareness of cruelty to circus animals in the foreword to his novel Jerry of the Islands. [PWR]
  - This one-time oyster pirate established a financially disastrous "Beauty Ranch" in Sonoma County. [PWR]
  - The first recorded instance of the (*) drunken hallucination of "seeing pink elephants" appears in this author's memoir John Barleycorn.
  - The term "yellow peril" gained traction in American discourse after this writer penned a super racist 1904 essay with that title.
  - This writer's development of scurvy during the Klondike Gold Rush informed his story of a man who dies of hypothermia when he fails to perform the title action.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "To Build a Fire," who wrote about the sled dog Buck in Call of the Wild. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: D.W. Griffith [Dwight Llewelyn Wark Griffith]
  - One of this man's films describes how its protagonist dreams to "take the glorious message of peace to the barbarous Anglo-Saxons, sons of turmoil and strife." That protagonist, who shoots the boxer Battling after he kills his daughter Lucy, the object of that protagonist's love, is referred to only as "The Yellow Man." Besides Broken Blossoms, this man directed a film in which shots of Eternal Motherhood rocking a (*) cradle bridge four stories about the titular concept, like the crucifixion of Jesus and the St.
  - Bartholomew's Day Massacre.
  - This director of a "film fugue" most famously followed the Cameron and Stoneman families through the Civil War and Reconstruction in a film that ends with African-Americans "heroically" being stopped from voting.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Intolerance, who glamorized the Ku Klux Klan in Birth of a Nation. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: (John Griffith) "Jack" London [or John Griffith Chaney]
  - The protagonist of one of this author's novels is choked unconscious after discussing the Rubaiyat and Ecclesiastes with a man who had earlier won the protagonist's stolen money in a poker game with the cook Thomas Mugridge.
  - In that novel by this author, the protagonist debates shooting the blinded antagonist, who repeatedly sabotages attempts to repair his ship and escape an island.
  - In another his novels, the protagonist is saved from a trio's ill-advised attempts to cross a partially-frozen river by John Thornton.
  - The protagonist of that novel by this author of The Sea-Wolf defeats Spitz in a fight to the death after being kidnapped from Judge Miller's house and shipped up north to the Yukon.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the sled dog Buck in The Call of the Wild. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: Two answers required. The yield point on a graph of these two quantities corresponds to the location where the slope greatly decreases. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: stress AND strain [accept answers in either order; accept stress-strain curve]):
    Name these two quantities symbolized sigma and epsilon. One has dimensions of pressure, while the other has dimensions of length.
  Part 2 (ans: fracture):
    This process is the endpoint on a stress-strain curve. This process, in which an object breaks into two, is a common failure mode in brittle materials.
  Part 3 (ans: Griffith's criterion):
    This statement from fracture mechanics, which was refined by Irwin, relates the critical energy release rate during fracture to the critical stress intensity squared over Young's modulus.

[B2] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: Answer the following about authors of famous physics textbooks, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David J. Griffiths):
    This former Reed College professor wrote an acclaimed undergraduate textbook on quantum mechanics that features an alive cat on the cover and a dead cat on the back. His textbook on electrodynamics is also widely used.
  Part 2 (ans: Lev Landau AND Evgeny Lifshitz):
    The ten-volume Course of Theoretical Physics is often referred to by the names of these two physicists. There is a misconception that one of these authors wrote most of the series in his head while in an NKVD prison in the 1930s.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Feynman [or Richard Phillips Feynman]):
    Perhaps the most famous physics textbooks are the lectures in the early 60s by this bongo-loving Caltech physicist.

[B3] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Name the following authors who have lived in Hawaii, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Hanya Yanagihara):
    This author of The People in the Trees has a Hawaiian father and went to high school in Hawaii. She wrote about the self-harming lawyer Jude, who reveals that he was sexually traumatized as a child, in her 2015 novel A Little Life.
  Part 2 (ans: Jack London [or John Griffith London]):
    This author's time in Hawaii is reflected in his collections The House of Pride and Other Stories and Tales of Hawaii. He's better known for works set in the Yukon Territory, such as "To Build a Fire" and White Fang.
  Part 3 (ans: Milton Atsushi Murayama):
    A widely-celebrated 20th-century novel written by a native Hawaiian is this author's All I Asking for Is My Body, in which Kiyo struggles with his family's Japanese values while growing up on a sugar plantation in 1930s Hawaii.

[B4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about breaking time barriers in running:
  Part 1 (ans: Roger Bannister):
    While a medical student at Oxford, this man became first person to run a mile under 4 minutes in May 1954, a feat which he repeated a month later against Australian John Landy in a race called the "Miracle Mile."
  Part 2 (ans: marathon):
    In October 2019, Kenyan Eliud Kipchoge ran the first sub two-hour time for this distance, though it was not counted as a record because it was not a race. This distance is defined as 42.195 kilometers.
  Part 3 (ans: Florence Griffith-Joyner [accept Florence Griffith-Joyner; accept "FloJo"]):
    The women's 100 meter dash record still stands at 10.49 seconds, set in 1988 by this American sprinter and gold medalist who also holds the 200 meters record.

[B5] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This person's army defeated that of Ralph the Timid, and then sacked the city of Hereford. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gruffydd ap Llywelyn ['Griffith' ap 'Clew-well-in'; prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this person, who conquered Deheubarth in 1055 to become the only native Welsh ruler to unite all of Wales, and as such is regarded as the only King of Wales.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold (II) Godwinson [accept either underlined part]):
    Gruffydd's reign ended in 1063 after he was defeated by forces under this person and their half-brother Tostig. Gruffydd's head was then sent by his supporters to this person, who may have been shot in the eye at the Battle of Hastings.
  Part 3 (ans: Edith / Ealdgyth):
    Harold married Gruffydd's widow of this name, which was the same as Harold's common-law wife, nicknamed 'Swan-neck', to whom he continued to be married.

[B6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's last words before dying are "You were right, old hoss; you were right," as he thinks of an "old-timer" at Sulphur Creek. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the protagonist of "To Build a Fire" [accept any answer indicating this is the character in "To Build a Fire"]):
    Identify this unnamed character who dies at the end of a 1908 story after foolishly ignoring various warnings. After his death, his equally unnamed dog runs off.
  Part 2 (ans: Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney]):
    This author of "To Build a Fire" also set his novel The Call of the Wild in the Yukon.
  Part 3 (ans: John Barleycorn):
    This non-fiction 1913 novel by London describes his addiction to alcohol. Supposedly containing the first recorded example of a drunk seeing "pink elephants," this book takes its name a British folk song about the personification of a cereal crop used to make alcohol.

[B7] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After hitting his lover with a camera, this character leaves her to drown after their boat capsizes in Big Moose Lake. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clyde Griffiths [or Clyde Griffiths]):
    Name this character who is executed in the electric chair for the murder of Roberta Alden.
  Part 2 (ans: Theodore Dreiser):
    Clyde Griffiths appears in An American Tragedy, a novel by this author who also wrote Sister Carrie.
  Part 3 (ans: hotel):
    In the first part of the novel, Clyde moves up the economic ladder from soda-jerk to working at one of these establishments in Kansas City, earning up to six or seven dollars a day in tips.

[B8] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Geography
     Leadin: Answer the following about some places frequently used for filming, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Monument Valley):
    Forrest Gump's cross-country run ends with this location in the background, which was featured in several John Ford films. This set of sandstone formations lies on the border between Utah and Arizona.
  Part 2 (ans: Griffith Park):
    Bronson Canyon, a location featured in many sci-fi films, is found in this park. It contains and shares its name with an observatory where a prominent fight scene in Rebel Without a Cause takes place.
  Part 3 (ans: Los Angeles, California):
    This city is home to the Griffith Observatory. The shot of the half-submerged Statue of Liberty from Planet of the Apes was filmed at Point Dume State Beach in its affluent suburb of Malibu.

[B9] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This actress gained fame in a role as a Mongol slave girl who poisons the caliph's daughter in the classic 1924 Douglas Fairbanks swashbuckler film The Thief of Bagdad. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna May Wong):
    Name this actress who also appeared in films like The Toll of the Sea and later alongside Marlene Dietrich in Shanghai Express. The Hays Code prevented her from starring in an adaptation of Pearl S. Buck's The Good Earth.
  Part 2 (ans: Orson Welles [George Orson Welles]):
    This director depicted himself caught in a shootout in a hall of mirrors at the end of his The Lady from Shanghai, which starred his wife Rita Hayworth.
  Part 3 (ans: D.W. Griffith [David Llewelyn Wark Griffith]):
    The director of The Thief of Bagdad, Raoul Walsh, played John Wilkes Booth in this director's film The Birth of a Nation.

[B10] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: At this story's end, all four speaking characters drunkenly sit there while listening to "the human noise we sat there making." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"):
    Name this story in which the cardiologist Mel McGinnis tells several anecdotes which usually involve full-body coverage. This story follows a gin-soaked conversation between two couples.
  Part 2 (ans: Raymond Carver [or Raymond Clevie Carver, Jr.]):
    This author of "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love" also wrote "Cathedral" and a story about the chimney sweep J.P. at a rehab center titled "Where I'm Calling From."
  Part 3 (ans: Jack London [or John Griffith Chaney]):
    In "Where I'm Calling From," J.P. compares himself to the protagonist of "To Build A Fire," which is a story by this author. This author also wrote about the dog-wolf Buck in The Call of the Wild.

[B11] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This woman observes Bishop Morehouse giving a speech about how the church has adopted "Mammon" in place of Christ, before he is sent off to a mental asylum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Avis Everhard [accept either underlined portion]):
    Identify this fictional author, who lives in a secret hiding place in Sonoma, working on a manuscript detailing the actions of her husband Ernest.
  Part 2 (ans: The Iron Heel):
    Avis Everhard's manuscript forms the text of this novel, whose fictional introduction by Anthony Meredith states that the "Brotherhood of Man" has triumphed over the title entity.
  Part 3 (ans: Jack London [accept John Griffith London or John Griffith Chaney]):
    The Iron Heel and The People of the Abyss are socialist books by this author, who may be better known for writing The Sea Wolf and White Fang.

[B12] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: The English title of an alt-western by Luc Moullet refers to these two things, as does a found-footage piece by Gustav Deutsch. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a girl and a gun):
    Name these two things, which Jean-Luc Godard famously said are the only two things you need to make a film.
  Part 2 (ans: David Llewelyn Wark "D. W." Griffith):
    Godard was paraphrasing a quote by this director of Intolerance and the extremely intolerant film Birth of a Nation.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy and Lillian Gish):
    Godard's Histoire(s) du cinema includes a shot of these sisters reacting to a gun from Griffith's film An Unseen Enemy. These sisters acted in Orphans of the Storm and many other films by Griffith.

[B13] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Hermes narrates most of a novel by this author, which concerns the assembly of the Godley family as they await their patriarch Adam's death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William John Banville):
    Name this Irish author of The Infinities. In this author's novel The Sea, Max Morden witnesses the drowning deaths of Chloe and Myles Grace.
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Xenophon apparently inspired the title of this author's The Sea, The Sea, which focuses on the egomaniacal Charles Arrowby. She also wrote about Jake Donaghue in the novel Under the Net.
  Part 3 (ans: John Griffith "Jack" London):
    This author's The Sea-Wolf depicts the struggles of Humphrey van Weyden after he is rescued from a shipwreck by the tyrannical Wolf Larsen. This author also really liked dogs, as evidenced by his novels The Call of the Wild and White Fang.

[B14] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This short film is believed to have been one of the first to use follow focus, and it contains a stunning sequence in which men in a firefight slink past a camera. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Musketeers of Pig Alley):
    Name this short film, produced by Biograph, which is sometimes considered the first gangster movie.
  Part 2 (ans: David Llewelyn Wark Griffith):
    The Musketeers of Pig Alley was directed by this guy, who also directed the incredibly racist Birth of A Nation.
  Part 3 (ans: Intolerance):
    Griffith also directed this film featuring a notable scene in which an elephant hits its head against the wall, leading Dan Puma's film professor to declare that "anything can happen in this film." It consists of "Babylonian," "Judean," "French," and "American" sections.

[B15] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After being blinded, a character in this novel sets fire to the mattress of the bed above him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sea-Wolf):
    Name this novel in which Wolf Larsen takes in Humphrey van Weyden aboard the Ghost. In the end of this book, van Weyden is recused.
  Part 2 (ans: Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney]):
    The Sea-Wolf was written by this author of The Scarlet Plague and The Iron Heel. He is better known for writing about Buck in Call of the Wild.
  Part 3 (ans: Death [accept Death Larsen or "I Have a Rendezvous with Death"]):
    Wolf Larsen clashes several times with his brother, who has this first name. The speaker of the most famous poem by World War I poet Alan Seeger claims to have a "rendezvous" with a figure of this name.

[B16] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of the novel, this character's sister Esta runs away; this character later learns that she has secretly returned to Kansas City after being abandoned by an older man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clyde Griffiths [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this character who moves to Lycurgus and ends up murdering Roberta Alden while pursuing a relationship with the rich and fashionable Sondra Finchley.
  Part 2 (ans: An American Tragedy):
    Clyde Griffiths is the protagonist of this novel, considered to be the best work of Theodore Dreiser.
  Part 3 (ans: Hortense Briggs [accept either underlined portion]):
    Clyde's lust for women above his class begins early in the novel, when he attempts and repeatedly fails to get in the pants of this awful character, who manipulates Clyde to buy her expensive dinners and a fur coat.

[B17] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about hotels in American literature.
  Part 1 (ans: The Fountainhead):
    Kent Lansing struggles with architect Howard Roark over the building of the Aquitania Hotel in this novel by Ayn Rand.
  Part 2 (ans: Clyde Griffiths [or Clyde Griffiths]):
    This man gets in trouble during his time as a Kansas City bellhop in Theodore Dreiser's novel An American Tragedy. He later murders Roberta Alden on a lake.
  Part 3 (ans: "High-Five"):
    This card game is played in the town of Fort Romper, Nebraska by the characters in Stephen Crane's story "The Blue Hotel." A cowboy often whacks the board when he gets a good hand in this game.

[B18] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This film consists of four separate storylines, set in Babylon, Judea, France, and America. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Intolerance):
    Name this silent film, whose sections are separated by images of a figure representing Eternal Motherhood.
  Part 2 (ans: The Birth of a Nation):
    The director of Intolerance also directed this 1915 epic based on Thomas Dixon's novel The Clansman. It was controversial for its positive portrayal of the Ku Klux Klan.
  Part 3 (ans: D. W. Griffith):
    Intolerance and The Birth of a Nation were directed by this man, who also created Broken Blossoms and Orphans of the Storm.

[B19] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: One scene in the first part of this movie shows a black militia attacking the house of one of the main families, and the daughters of that family are saved by the Confederate army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Birth of a Nation):
    Name this film which contrasts the fortunes of the Stonemans and the Camerons, who intermarry after fighting on opposite sides of the Civil War.
  Part 2 (ans: David Llewelyn Wark Griffith):
    The controversial pro-KKK film The Birth of a Nation was directed by this man, who also directed the sequel, Intolerance.
  Part 3 (ans: Lillian Gish):
    This actress played Elsie Stoneman in Birth of a Nation. This "First Lady of the Silent Screen" starred in several of Griffith's films, including Broken Blossoms, Way Down East, and Orphans of the Storm.

[B20] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: For 10 points each, give the following about experiments important to our understanding of DNA.
  Part 1 (ans: Meselson-Stahl experiment [accept answer in reverse order]):
    This doubly eponymous experiment used E. coli to prove that DNA replication is a semi-conservative process.
  Part 2 (ans: Fred Griffith):
    In his namesake experiment, this man injected mice with both non-virulent bacteria and heat-killed virulent bacteria, and some of the mice died. Knowing that heat denatures proteins, he concluded that proteins could not have been responsible for transferring the genetic material between bacteria, as some thought.
  Part 3 (ans: phosphorus):
    The Hershey-Chase "blender" experiment used a radioactive form of this element, which in DNA and RNA forms a type of diester bond.
