=== STOCK CLUES: Mario Vargas Llosa ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 65 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 56 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa [prompt on Vargas; prompt on Llosa]
  - In a novel by this author, many characters are described by a "broad forehead, aquiline nose, penetrating gaze, the very soul of rectitude and goodness" and are "in the prime of [their] life." A character created by this author is exposed for selling pornographic stories, leading him to end up in jail with the killer of a boy nicknamed "the Slave." The narrator of a novel by this author is advised by Hortensia to avoid his Uncle Lucho's sister-in-law.
  - The cadet Jaguar runs the gang "The Circle" in a novel by this author set at the Leoncio Prado Military Academy.
  - The even chapters of a novel by this author are excerpts of soap operas that air on the radio station Panamericana written by Pedro Camacho.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Time of the Hero and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa ("YO-sah") [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa; prompt on Vargas or Llosa]
  - At the end of one of this author's novels, the protagonist decides to only answer letters from her niece Marianita .
  - In that novel by this author, the shards of a lightbulb are swallowed in a suicide attempt by Pupo Roman .
  - In a different novel by this author, characters such as a mysterious scarred African man start to appear in the wrong storylines.
  - In that novel by this author, the underage protagonist attempts to bribe a series of small-town mayors to marry him to a divorced relative.
  - This author created a semi-autobiographical protagonist who works with a writer of wild radio plays named Pedro Camacho .
  - For 10 points, name this Peruvian author of The Feast of the Goat and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa; prompt on What Little Vargas Didn't Say; do not accept or prompt on "Llosa" or "Vargas"]
  - In response to a novel by this author, his wife published a memoir claiming he fell in love with her niece, titled What [this author] Didn't Say. [PWR]
  - A woman in a novel by this author has her eyes and tongue eaten by vultures before she is locked in a tower and dies in childbirth. [PWR]
  - A prostitute nicknamed "Wildflower" works at the title structure of a novel by this author, which is also inhabited by the giant Bolas and the (*) blind harp player Anselmo.
  - A Jehovah's Witness threatens to castrate himself to prove he didn't rape Sarita in a novel by this author of The Green House.
  - In a novel by this author, the Radio Panamericana station hires Pedro Camacho to write increasingly surreal telenovelas.
  - For 10 points, name this Peruvian author of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Pedro Camacho's radio scripts in Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter [accept serials or soap operas or radio novelas in place of "scripts"; accept Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter; prompt on novels by Mario Vargas Llosa]
  - Description acceptable.
  - In one of these works, a cop arrests a man for climbing in a window, only to learn that he was role-playing with his wife.
  - In that one of these works, a sergeant hesitates to shoot a mute black man covered in cuts.
  - In one of these works, a respected doctor attends his niece's wedding and learns that she is pregnant with her brother's child.
  - In these works, a man vows to kill rats after they eat his sister, and a Jehovah's Witness threatens to castrate himself in court.
  - The last of these often anti-Argentine works kills off all their characters in a fire.
  - The even chapters of a novel about a man's romance with an older divorcee consist of these increasingly jumbled works, which Pedro Camacho writes at Panamerica.
  - For 10 points, Mario Vargas Llosa titled a novel for Aunt Julia and the writer of what works? [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Pedro Camacho's soap operas [accept radio shows or programs from Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter until "Radio" is read; accept radionovela or radioteatro; accept radio serials or radio plays; accept scripts from Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter; prompt on Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter or La tia Julia y el escribidor; prompt on novels or books by Mario Vargas Llosa by asking "what specific kind of works within one of those novels do these clues refer to?"]
  - In one of these works, a priest abandons his plan to study in Rome after his thesis calling masturbation "the citadel of ecclesiastic chastity" is rejected. [PWR]
  - Because of his poor memory, the author of these works repeatedly uses the name Ezequiel Delfin in them. [PWR]
  - In several of these works, characters who are fifty years old are repeatedly described as being in the "prime of life." Two cooks beat up the author of these works after hearing the bigoted passage "I'm an (*) Argentine, I kill children." A Jehovah's witness mechanic who was accused of rape tries tocut off his penis with a letter opener to prove his innocence in one of these works. [PWR]
  - The Bolivian author of these works produces them on a Remington typewriter stolen from the narrator, Mario.
  - For 10 points, name these works broadcast on Radio Panamericana, written by Pedro Camacho in a novel by Mario Vargas Llosa. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa (prompt on incomplete last name)
  - This author's ex-wife was fictionalized as a woman who argues over whether the terms "love nest" or "Montmartre" are huachafo , leading her to write a memoir entitled "What Little" [this author] "Didn't Say." One woman created by this author goes by pseudonyms including "Madame Robert Arnoux," "Comrade Arlette," and "Kuriko." This author of The Bad Girl created a New York lawyer who visits her father after a stroke.
  - That woman, (*) Urania Cabral, recounts the night her father let a dictator rape her for his own political advancement; that dictator was based on Rafael Trujillo.
  - A divorced woman who names a novel by this author has a relationship with her eighteen-year-old nephew, who works for the increasingly unhinged radio serial writer Pedro Camacho.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Feast of the Goat and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa AND Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Mario Vargas Llosa AND Gabo]
  - Warning: Two answers required. [PWR]
  - One of these authors commemorated the 40th anniversary of one of the other's novels by writing an introduction to it called "Amadis in America." The 1971 doctoral thesis of one of these authors analyzes the other's novels by comparing the act of writing to "Deicide." In 2007, Rodrigo Moya published a photograph of one of these authors smiling, taken 31 years after an incident between them. [PWR]
  - One of these authors denounced the other as (*) "Castro's cortesano," a phrase often mistranslated as "Castro's courtesan." The animosity between them began in Barcelona, where one of them privately consoled the other's wife. [PWR]
  - At a 1976 movie premiere in Mexico City, one of these authors allegedly shouted "That's for what you did to Patricia" right before sucker-punching the other in the face.
  - For 10 points, name these two longtime literary enemies, prominent right-leaning and left-leaning Latin American novelists from Peru and Colombia. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa
  - In one essay, this author argued that Victor Hugo wanted to create a complete fictional world and use it to change the real world. [PWR]
  - In exchange for cigarettes, a literary boy writes pornography for other students who also have sex with the prostitute Golden Toes and the dog Skimpy in a novel by this author of "The Temptation of the Impossible." A chauffeur elopes with Don Fermin in a novel which asked "At what precise moment" his country had (*) "fucked itself up." This author wrote about members of "the Circle" stealing answers to a chemistry test in a novel where Jaguar kills the Slave while they are students at a military academy. [PWR]
  - In one of his novels, Santiago and Ambrosio meet in a dog pound and talk about a minister's shady dealings in the title bar.
  - For 10 points, name this Peruvian author of The Time of the Hero and Conversation in the Cathedral. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Madame Bovary (The leadin is from The Perpetual Orgy by Mario Vargas Llosa)
  - A writer responds to Claude Duchet's claim that this novel has a "mania for duplication" by calling it the "added element" that lets fiction "compete with the real world".
  - In another book, Enid Starkie's argument that this novel's writer forgot what color its protagonist's eyes were is rebuked by Geoffrey Braithwaite.
  - After a chance meeting at the opera Lucia di Lammermoor, a man and a woman in this novel have (*) sex in a moving carriage. [PWR]
  - Berthe [bairt] is the daughter of a man in this novel who is driven out of business by the pharmacist Monsieur Homais [oh-may].
  - In this novel, Rodolphe and Leon have affairs with the wife of a country doctor named Charles.
  - For 10 points, name this novel by Gustave Flaubert. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa
  - Characters from a novel by this author include a foundling whose eyes and tongue were eaten by vultures, a woman who is nicknamed "Wildflower," and a wandering harp player whose business was destroyed. [PWR]
  - The original title of a novel by this author translates as The City and the Dogs. [PWR]
  - His Nobel acceptance speech condemns the "bloody witches' Sabbath of the Chinese Cultural Revolution." He wrote a novel that ends with (*) Bonifacia working at a brothel that had been burned down by the local villagers. [PWR]
  - Two characters in a novel by this author are nicknamed "The Slave" and "The Poet." He wrote about a peasant who carries out Jaguar's plans by stealing a chemistry exam at the Leoncio Prado Military Academy.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose first two novels were The Green House and The Time of the Hero. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa (accept The Bad Girl before author, and high-five them)
  - The title character goes by the names Lily and Arlette, but is always loved by Ricardo, in a recent novel by this author. [PWR]
  - In one of this author's novels, the title entity is shut down after the protagonist shows up to the funeral of Olga the Brazilian.
  - That novel's protagonist cheats on his wife Pochita and supplies ($) prostitutes to army barracks, and is named Pantaleon Pantoja.
  - A man known as "Egghead" lets his young daughter be raped in another of work of his.
  - Euclides da Cunha inspired the character of The (*) Journalist in another of this author's novels, which sees the red-headed phrenology-loving Scotsman Galileo Gall join a rebellion. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about Urania Cabral and the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo in another novel.
  - For ten points, identify this Peruvian author of The Feast of the Goat and The War of the End of the World. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa
  - In one novel by this author, Lieutenant Amadito is forced to give up his fiancee Luisa Gil because her brother is a Communist rebel, and is then tricked into killing that brother by the sinister Colonel Johnny Abbes. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about an employee of the World Bank who returns to her home country to confront her paralyzed father, Agustin, over his role as an "Egghead" supporting a previous (*) regime. [PWR]
  - This creator of Urania Cabral used Euclides da Cunha's Os Sertoes as the basis for another novel and documented the Trujillo Regime in the aforementioned The Feast of the Goat.
  - This man, who wrote about the Canudos rebellion in The War of the End of the World, penned a partially autobiographical novel whose even-numbered chapters are the soap operas of Pedro Camacho, and which details his affair with and marriage to an older relative.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter and The Time of the Hero, a writer from Peru. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The novel The Way to Paradise is a double biography of this man and his grandmother Flora Tristan, who had ancestry in the author's country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Gauguin):
    Name this historical person who is fictionalized as the former stockbroker Charles Strickland in Somerset Maugham's novel The Moon and Sixpence.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    The Way to Paradise is by this author of The Time of the Hero who portrayed the assassination of Rafael Trujillo in The Feast of the Goat.
  Part 3 (ans: The Dream of the Celt [or El sueno del celta]):
    This other historical novel by Vargas Llosa features Joseph Conrad saying "You've deflowered me...about the Congo Free State" and includes parts of the "Black Diaries" of its protagonist, Roger Casement.

[B2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story, a woman born on the night of this event realizes that her mother has died after seeing a tear travel down a porcelain statue of the Virgin Mary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Parsley massacre [or El Corte]):
    Name this event, which provides the background to the story "Nineteen Thirty-Seven." In a novel, Amabelle returns to Yves ("EVE") after discovering that her lover Sebastien died during this event.
  Part 2 (ans: Rafael Trujillo [or Rafael Leonidas Trujillo Molina]):
    Amabelle appears in The Farming of Bones, a novel set during this dictator's rule. This Dominican leader orders the death of the Mirabal sisters in Julia Alvarez's novel In the Time of the Butterflies.
  Part 3 (ans: The Feast of the Goat [or La Fiesta del Chivo] (by Mario Vargas Llosa)):
    Trujillo broods over his impotence on the night of his assassination in this novel, which weaves together the narratives of Trujillo, his assassins, and Urania Cabral.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Edouard Glissant's ("ay-DWAR glee-SAHN's") Caribbean Discourse praises the "vertigo of speech" in this writer, whom Gabriel Garcia Marquez credited with "the best South American novel ever written." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Faulkner [or William Cuthbert Faulkner]):
    Name this English-language author, whom Garcia Marquez called his "master" in his Nobel address. In his own Nobel Address, this writer declared that "man will not merely endure; he will prevail."
  Part 2 (ans: The Time of the Hero [or La Ciudad y los perros; or The City and the Dogs] (by Mario Vargas Llosa)):
    Faulkner inspired the nonlinear structure of this Latin American novel, in which three central characters love the middle class Teresa. This novel scandalously depicted chicken abuse and masturbation contests in its prestigious setting.
  Part 3 (ans: Macondo):
    Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha ("yahk-nuh-puh-TAH-fuh") stories influenced Gabriel Garcia Marquez to set many of his novels, such as One Hundred Years of Solitude, in this town.

[B4] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A story titled for this substance from Mariana Enriquez's collection The Dangers of Smoking in Bed follows two girls' obsession with the dead pop star Santiago Espina. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: human flesh [or human meat; accept Tender is the Flesh or Cadaver Exquisito]):
    Name this substance provided by "heads," like the FGP Jasmine, in a 2017 novel by Argentine author Agustina Bazterrica.
  Part 2 (ans: ghosts [or dead people; accept phantoms, specters, or spirits]):
    The Order contacts a human-eating god called The Darkness via Juan's ability to talk to these people in Enriquez's novel Our Share of the Night. All the characters in Juan Rulfo's Pedro Paramo are these people.
  Part 3 (ans: green house [or casa verde] (The Green House is by Mario Vargas Llosa.)):
    In another work of Argentine horror, Samanta Schweblin's Fever Dream, a woman in a building of this name "transmigrates" souls into children killed by toxic "dew." In a 1966 novel, Anselmo builds a brothel of this name in the deserts of northern Peru.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by Daniel Alarcon, Norma creates works for this medium to rally a war-torn country whose villages have been renamed after numbers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: radio [accept radionovelas; accept Lost City Radio; prompt on soap operas or scripts or plays or novelas by asking "what medium are they performed in?"]):
    Identify this medium. The even chapters of a novel comprise progressively more deranged works for this medium that intersect with the life of the law student Mario, who falls in love with an older divorcee.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [prompt on Vargas or Llosa]):
    This Peruvian and compatriot of Alarcon interweaved Pedro Camacho's radio soap operas throughout his novel Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
  Part 3 (ans: Clarice Lispector (The novella is The Hour of the Star.)):
    An episode of Alarcon's show Radio Ambulante recounts how this author attended the World Congress of Sorcery. The protagonist of a novella by this author learns facts from a Clock Radio after taking up a job as a typist, and visits a fortune teller.

[B6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by this author includes a radio play, or novela, about the inept son of a businessman who becomes a famous Peruvian soccer referee. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa ("VAR-gahss YOH-sah")):
    Name this author of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
  Part 2 (ans: Pedro Camacho [accept either name]):
    In Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter, Mario falls in love with and marries his divorced aunt Julia, while this "scriptwriter" churns out dozens of radio plays as he descends into insanity.
  Part 3 (ans: policeman [or police officer; accept detective; accept sergeant; accept member of the civil guard]):
    A Camacho serial is about Lituma, a member of this profession who encounters a naked, starving African man in a warehouse. Another Vargas Llosa character named Lituma, who also has this profession, appears in a novel partly titled for Palomino Molero.

[B7] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Note to players: Two answers required. A sentence describing this nation performing this action directly follows a description of a man looking at a street "without love" seeing "uneven and faded buildings, the gaudy skeletons of posters floating in the mist, the gray midday." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peru AND fucked (itself) up [or Peru AND se jodido; or Peru AND se joder; accept "At what precise moment had Perufucked itself up?"; accept En que moment se habia jodido el Peru?; accept f'ed up instead of "fucked up" from those who do not wish to swear]):
    Name this nation and the specific verb for the action it performs. They appear in the second sentence of a novel whose protagonist discovers that his father, Fermin, was known as "Gold Ball" in his secret gay affairs.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa, 1st Marquis of Vargas Llosa; prompt on Llosa]):
    The line "At what precise moment had Peru fucked itself up?" appears in Conversation in the Cathedral, a novel by this Peruvian author.
  Part 3 (ans: The Green House [or La Casa Verde]):
    Conversation in the Cathedral was preceded by this Vargas Llosa novel, titled for the brothel that Don Anselmo builds in the desert near the town of Piura.

[B8] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Sabers and Utopias, this author recounts telling his deathbed-ridden friend Jose Donoso "Henry James is shit," to which Donoso responded "Flaubert, more so." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [prompt on partial answer] (the unnamed novel is The Feast of the Goat)):
    Name this author who ran for his country's presidency in 1990. One of his novels follows four assassins plotting to kill Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo.
  Part 2 (ans: Madame Bovary [or Madame Bovary: Moeurs de province]):
    The journalist Kathryn Harrison argued that Vargas Llosa's The Bad Girl was a rewrite of this novel. This Gustave Flaubert novel is titled for Emma, the wife of the country doctor Charles, who has affairs with Leon Dupuis and Rodolphe Boulanger.
  Part 3 (ans: a brothel [or a bordello; or a whorehouse; or The Green House, since all of the clues are about the novel]):
    In a Vargas Llosa novel, a drunkard plays his harp above one of these locations, which was built by his daughter Chunga. That one of these locations in Piura was inspired by one Vargas Llosa visited, whose residents included "The Young One."

[B9] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some writers who wrote about writing, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This author's The Art of the Novel includes an interview with Christian Salmon in which he asserts that his novels "lie outside the aesthetic of the novel normally termed psychological." This author wrote a novel following Tomas and Tereza during the Prague Spring.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa ("YO-sa") [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa; prompt on partial surname] (The second novel is The War of the End of the World.)):
    Letters to a Young Novelist is a writing manual by this author who followed Silva and Lituma in the detective novel Who Killed Palomino Molero?. In another novel by this author, the Counselor gains religious followers in Brazil.
  Part 3 (ans: Stephen King):
    On Writing, a book by this author, claims that "most books about writing are filled with bullshit" and details how he writes 10 pages a day. This author wrote The Shining.

[B10] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Urania is a name many authors use for their characters. For 10 points each, name some of those authors.
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa, 1st Marquess of Vargas Llosa; prompt on partial answer]):
    This Peruvian author used the muse's name for Urania Cabral, a character who returns to the Dominican Republic decades after she was raped by Rafael Trujillo, in his novel The Feast of the Goat.
  Part 2 (ans: Joris-Karl Huysmans [or J.K. Huysmans; or Charles-Marie-Georges Huysmans] (the novel is A rebours)):
    In a novel by this author, the first relationship the protagonist has is with an acrobat named Miss Urania. After ending that relationship, the protagonist of that novel by this author then becomes involved with a ventriloquist and has her reenact a dialogue between a sphinx and a chimera.

[B11] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Andrew Wylie served as this author's literary agent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]):
    Identify this author, whose alter ego Arturo appears in his novel Distant Star.Four scholars studying the reclusive Benno von Archimboldi appear in "The Part about the Critics," the first section of his final five-part novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmen Balcells [or Carmen Balcells Segala]):
    Prior to Wylie, Bolano was represented by this Catalan publicist, whose push for translations of books by her clients Julio Cortazar and Gabriel Garcia Marquez helped propel the Latin American Boom.
  Part 3 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    When he learned of Balcells's death in 2015, this author said, "Carmen dearest, [I'll] see you soon." This Peruvian author wrote Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.

[B12] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character regains her health at a sanatorium after being subjected to physical and mental abuse by the sadistic Japanese smuggler Fukuda. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the bad girl [or la nina mala]):
    Name this title character, who is finally revealed to be named Otilia, after adopting the guises of the Cuban revolutionary Comrade Arlette, the Yakuza mistress Kuriko, and the diplomat's wife Mme. Arnoux, in a novel that reimagines Madame Bovary.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa, 1st Marquess of Vargas Llosa]):
    In his book length study of Madame Bovary titled The Perpetual Orgy, this Peruvian Nobel Laureate and author of The Bad Girl hailed Flaubert as the first modern novelist.
  Part 3 (ans: a campfire [or traveler's fire]):
    In The Perpetual Orgy, Vargas Llosa praised Flaubert for his ability to imbue depictions of reality with an "added element," highlighting an extended metaphor from Madame Bovary comparing Emma's memory of Leon to one of these things on the Russian steppe.

[B13] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Although he works as an insurance agent by day, at night this "libertarian hedonist" orders his second wife Dona Lucrecia to enter erotic role playing scenarios inspired by paintings by Boucher and Titian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Don Rigoberto):
    Identify this title character of a 1997 erotic novel, which follows up on a novel published ten years earlier under the title In Praise of the Stepmother.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    The Notebooks of Don Rigoberto was written by this Peruvian Nobel laureate of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
  Part 3 (ans: Pedro Camacho [or Pedro Camacho]):
    This character from Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter wins over the audiences of Lima with his repetitive soap operas in which most of the villains turn out to be Argentinians. This character is committed to an insane asylum after killing off all of his creations.

[B14] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Joao Guimaraes Rosa's novel about the bandit Riobaldo was translated with the title The Devil to Pay in this sort of place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: backlands [or Os Sertoes]):
    Name this sort of place, a "rebellion" in which titles the translation of Euclides da Cunha's account of the Canudos War.
  Part 2 (ans: Brazil [or Brasil]):
    Both Guimaraes Rosa and Euclides da Cunha are writers from this Latin American country, whose literature is typically written in the Portuguese language.
  Part 3 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa, 1st Marquis of Vargas Llosa]):
    The near-sighted journalist, who was likely based on da Cunha, appears in this author's fictionalization of the Canudos rebellion, The War of the End of the World.

[B15] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by Cesar Aira, a member of this profession wears a black veil during an Indian raid after becoming disfigured in a lightning strike. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: painter [or artist; or obvious equivalents]):
    Identify this profession of a man who stabs Maria Iribarne to death in Ernesto Sabato's The Tunnel.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    This other Latin American author wrote about the painter Paul Gauguin in The Way to Paradise. He also satirized Peruvian politics in Conversation in the Cathedral and wrote Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
  Part 3 (ans: Manuel Puig):
    This writer featured the romance between a sculptor and an art critic in The Buenos Aires Affair but is better known for a novel in which Molina retells movies like Cat People to his cellmate.

[B16] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this country, the preacher Antonio Conselheiro united thousands of downtrodden peasants in open revolt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]):
    Name this country, whose "backlands" were the setting of the Canudos revolt, fictionalized in The War at the End of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    This Peruvian Nobel Laureate wrote Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter and The Feast of the Goat besides penning The War at the End of the World.
  Part 3 (ans: Euclides da Cunha):
    The journalist in the The War at the End of the World was based on this Brazilian reporter whose own account of the revolt at Canudos, Rebellion in the Backlands, was first published in 1902.

[B17] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Antonia gives birth to Chunga in this novel about a structure that becomes Bonifacia's residence after she is raped by Lituma's friends. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Green House [or La Casa Verde]):
    Identify this novel about a brothel built by Anselmo and rebuilt by Anselmo's daughter Chunga.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    The Green House is a novel by this Peruvian author who wrote about Radio Panamerica which employs Pedro Comacho in Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
  Part 3 (ans: The Time of the Hero [or La ciudad y los perros or The City and the Dogs]):
    This first novel by Vargas Llosa is about The Circle, a group of cadets at the Leoncia Prado Military Academy led by the Jaguar.

[B18] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A dachshund is beaten to death in an early scene in this novel, and one of the protagonists remembers a rally for Senator Emilio Arevalo in a flashback. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Conversation in the Cathedral or Whatever that is in Spanish):
    Name this novel in which journalist Santiago Zavala attempts to discover his father's involvement in a murder by asking his father's old chauffer, Ambrosio.
  Part 2 (ans: Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter):
    One of the title characters in this novel hires Pedro Camacho to help write serials for Radio Pan America. Every other chapter consists solely of the script for the serial.
  Part 3 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    Both Conversation in the Cathedral and Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter are written by this Peruvian Nobel Laureate.

[B19] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the last chapter of the work he appears in, this character finds a former colleague working for the sensationalist tabloid Extra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [or Mario Vargas Llosa; or Marito; or Varguitas]):
    Name this character, who appears in a work with chapters alternating between his narration and the increasingly unhinged works of Pedro Camacho.
  Part 2 (ans: Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter [or La Tia Julia y el Escribador]):
    Mario appears in this novel by Mario Vargas Llosa in which Pedro Camacho is the second title character.
  Part 3 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]):
    Mario narrowly manages to save Pedro Camacho from an attack by two people from this country, whom Camacho routinely vilifies in his scripts. The second book of Hopscotch takes place in this country, the birthplace of its author, Julio Cortazar.
