=== STOCK CLUES: Glinka ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 10 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Mikhail Glinka [or Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka]
  - Alexandr Dugin has revived interest in an opera by this composer that was censored, was retitled as Hammer and Sickle, and features a set of four Polish dances in its mostly ballet second act.
  - This composer apocryphally acquainted himself with dissonance by listening to the out-of-tune bells in his native Smolensk.
  - This composer's song cycle Farewell to Saint Petersburg features his song "The Lark," a major inspiration for Mily Balakirev .
  - This composer of an overture based on the folk song "Kamarinskaya" composed an opera that focuses on a man who saves a ruler by diverting an army detachment and another based on a Pushkin poem about a knight and his abducted lover.
  - For 10 points, name this early Russian romantic who composed the operas A Life for the Czar and Ruslan and Ludmilla. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Mikhail Glinka
  - This composer wrote a set of Variations for piano on Alexander Alyabyev's song "The Nightingale". [PWR]
  - One of his own songs, "The Lark", from his Farewell to St Petersburg, was adapted for piano by Mily Balakirev.
  - Balakirev also wrote a Piano Fantasia inspired by this composer's (*) first opera, about the martyrdom of Ivan Susanin. [PWR]
  - His folk-dance inspired Kamarinskaya was described by Tchaikovsky as the acorn from which the oak of Russian music grew.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Ruslan and Lyudmila and A Life for the Tsar. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work was considered so difficult, that Maurice Ravel made it a goal of his to make Gaspard de la nuit harder than it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Islamey [or Islamey: Oriental Fantasy]):
    Name this piano work composed in one month which was inspired by its composer's trip to the Caucasus.
  Part 2 (ans: The Mighty Five [or The Mighty Handful]):
    Islamey was composed by Mily Balakirev, a member of this group of Russian composers that included Cesar Cui and Modest Mussorgsky.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Glinka [or Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka]):
    The members of The Mighty Five were inspired by this Russian composer who composed the folk-inspired tune Kamarinskaya and the opera Ruslan and Lyudmilla.

[B2] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer had a significant influence on Rachmaninoff, and prominently led the applause for the premiere of Rachmaninoff's graduation opera Aleko. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky):
    Name this Russian composer of the Pathetique Symphony and the ballet Swan Lake.
  Part 2 (ans:  In the Steppes of Central Asia [or V srednyei Azii; accept In Central Asia]):
    To depict characters in Aleko, Rachmaninoff used orientalised motifs partly inspired by this piece. This tone poem's elaborate 'Eastern' melody in the cor anglais is set against a pizzicato 'travelling' theme of repeated quavers.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Glinka):
    Rachmaninoff's Aleko also drew on folk motifs such as those in the Capriccio on Russian Themes by this composer, who also set Nestor Kukolnik's Farewell to St Petersburg. Rachmaninoff's second piano concerto earned a 500-rouble award named after this Russian composer.

[B3] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: These short character pieces are often in ternary form and gradually embellish a simple lyrical melody over broad undulating arpeggios. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: nocturne [or nocturno]):
    Name this tranquil genre developed by the early Romantic Irish composer John Field. Chopin wrote 21 of them.
  Part 2 (ans: two [or 2]):
    Field's piano sonatas, starting from his Opus 1 dedicated to his teacher Clementi, were published with this many movements, as he usually interpolated a nocturne. Beethoven's last piano sonata has this many movements, as do all of Alberti's "Italian" sonatas.
  Part 3 (ans: Russia (Field taught Mikhail Glinka, and Nikolai Medtner composed Night Wind.)):
    Like Adolf von Henselt, Field was a court pianist in this country, where H. J. Dalmas published his variations on its folk songs, and where he taught the composer of the nocturne La separation and the "Nightingale" Variations. A late Romantic pianist from this country wrote two-part sonatas with nocturnal textures like Night Wind.

[B4] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Mily Balakirev wrote a solo piano arrangement of this composer's song "The Lark," which was originally from his A Farewell to Saint Petersburg. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Glinka):
    Name this composer of Kamarinskaya who, in 1884, founded a namesake annual prize whose early winners included Cesar Cui ("say-ZAR KYOO-ee") and Anatoly Lyadov.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Borodin [accept the Borodin Quartet] (That tone poem is In the Steppes of Central Asia.)):
    This composer was also an early winner of the Glinka Prize. Dmitri Shostkovich worked closely with a quartet named for this composer, who wrote a tone poem that depicts a caravan of people represented by the English horn traveling through the desert with Russian soldiers.
  Part 3 (ans: five [accept the Mighty Five]):
    Borodin was a member of a "mighty" school of this number of Russian composers. That school of this many Russian composers was also heavily influenced by Glinka's music. This is also the number of lines that make up a musical staff.

[B5] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piano piece begins with a theme in D-flat major and 12/16 ("twelve-sixteen") time, played by both hands on a single staff. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Islamey):
    Name this ossia-filled piece whose Andantino espressivo middle section is based on a traditional melody of the Crimean Tatars.
  Part 2 (ans: Mily Balakirev [or Mily Alexeyevich Balakirev]):
    This Russian composer of Islamey brought together a mighty handful of nationalist contemporaries into a group called the Five.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Glinka [or Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka]):
    Balakirev wrote a solo piano arrangement of this Russian composer's "The Lark," the tenth piece in his song cycle A Farewell to St. Petersburg.

[B6] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's early musical experience was limited to hearing the dissonant bells of his village's church and the folk songs his nurse sang. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Glinka):
    Name this Russian nationalist composer, one of the first to achieve fame in his own country, who wrote about a character meeting a giant talking head in Ruslan and Lyudmila.
  Part 2 (ans: Kamarinskaya):
    This Glinka composition was inspired by a slow bridal song called "Izza gor" in addition to the titular dance theme. This orchestral work was the first to be based entirely on Russian folk songs.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mighty Handful [or the Five; or the Russian Five; or the Mighty Five; or the Mighty Coterie; or the Moguchaya kuchka]):
    Glinka inspired this group of Russian composers led by Mily Balakirev ("buh-LAH-kee-riff"), whose goal was to create a distinctly Russian style of music.

[B7] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The folk dance Kamarinskaya was turned into a piece of orchestral music by this composer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Glinka):
    Name this composer of the earliest Russian-language opera in the repertoire, A Life for the Tsar.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruslan and Lyudmila [or Ruslan i Lyudmila]):
    Vladimir Stasov and Alexander Serov engaged in a debate over the merits of this opera by Glinka, whose overture uses a piano and harp to imitate a gusli. This opera's second act contains Farlaf's Rondo.
  Part 3 (ans: Italy [or Italia]):
    Catterino Cavos, a composer born in this modern day country, anticipated Glinka by composing his own Ivan Susanin on similar themes. This country was the origin of the opera buffa and opera seria styles.

[B8] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Lyrics were added to this composer's "Patriotic Song" for a temporary national anthem used in Russia from 1990 to 2000. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka):
    Name this composer who orchestrated a folk dance with his Kamarinskaya and was inspired by trips to Spain to produce Jota Aragonesa and A Night in Madrid.
  Part 2 (ans: The Five [or The Mighty Five; or The Mighty Handful; or The Mighty Coterie; or Moguchaya kuchka]):
    Glinka was one of the forebears to this circle of Russian composers, which included Balakirev, Mussorgsky, and Borodin.
  Part 3 (ans: Romeo and Juliet, TH 42, CW 39):
    The Glinka Prize was awarded to this Tchaikovsky overture-fantasy with a famous "love theme," based on a work of literature.

[B9] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, identify these composers inspired by Spain who were not Spanish themselves.
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph-Maurice Ravel):
    A Spanish dance form of the same name provided the inspiration for this Frenchman's Bolero.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Ivanovich Glinka):
    This Russian's two Spanish Overtures are titled "Capriccio Brilliante on the Jota Aragonesa" and "Recollection of a Summer Night in Madrid."
  Part 3 (ans: Edouard-Victoire-Antoine Lalo):
    Despite its name, this other Frenchman's five-movement Symphonie espagnole is usually regarded as a violin concerto.

[B10] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This namesake of a class of icebreaker ships is attested in the charter of Kostroma, which was partially given to his son-in-law Bogdan in tribute to this man's deeds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ivan Susanin):
    Name this legendary figure, who is said to have led a Polish army looking for the Hypatian Monastery into death in the deep woods instead.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Romanov [or Mikhail I]):
    The Poles were attempting to capture or kill this new tsar of Russia, who ended the Time of Troubles and founded the final Russian ruling house.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Glinka):
    The Susanin legend is depicted in A Life for the Tsar, an opera by this composer of The Toasting Cup and Ruslan and Ludmilla.
