=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Amahl ===
(Questions where 'Amahl' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: United States of America [or U.S.A; accept any underlined portion]
  - In 1973, a conductor from this country gave a six-part lecture series comparing classical music to concepts in linguistics.
  - Under the guidance of Arthur Fiedler, a composer from this country wrote light music such as "The Syncopated Clock." A production from this country pairs a scene of dancing animals with a musical outtake from Act III of La Gioconda, the "Dance of the Hours." This country's first direct-to-television
  - The Young People's Concerts series originated in this country.
  - This country produced a 1940 animated film accompanied by Leopold Stokowski recordings of pieces such as The Sorcerer's Apprentice.
  - For 10 points, name this country where the movie Fantasia was produced by Walt Disney.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the opera A Quiet Place, Dede protects one of these places previously owned by his mother Dinah before Old Sam appears. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gardens [accept "Make Our Garden Grow"; accept "There is a Garden"]):
    Name these places, one of which titles the finale of an operetta whose title character sings "You've been a fool, and so have I" before resolving to marry a woman who earlier sings "Glitter and Be Gay."
  Part 2 (ans: Leonard Bernstein [or Louis Bernstein]):
    The opera A Quiet Place is by this American composer who included "Make Our Garden Grow" in his operetta Candide and who wrote the music for West Side Story.
  Part 3 (ans: NBC [or National Broadcasting Company; or NBC Opera Theatre]):
    Trouble in Tahiti, in which Dinah sings the aria "There is a Garden," achieved success after being performed by an opera theater named for this company, which also commissioned Amahl and the Night Visitors.

[BM2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The great music critic Dave Hurwitz once claimed that a piece of music by this composer would have made for "the greatest five minutes of ice skating." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Barber [or Samuel Osmond Barber II]):
    Name this composer who composed the ballet excerpt Medea's Dance of Vengeance. This composer's first solo piano piece was Excursions.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Barber was romantic partners with this other composer known for operas like The Consul and the first opera composed for television, Amahl and the Night Visitors.
  Part 3 (ans: John F. Kennedy [or JFK; or John Fitzgerald Kennedy]):
    Samuel Barber's most performed work, Adagio for Strings, was broadcast over the radio after the assassination of this American President in 1963.

[BM3] 2018 Stevenson Memorial Tournament (SMT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Members of this orchestra comprise most of the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra, which often performs at the Lincoln Center. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York Philharmonic [or NY Phil]):
    Name this orchestra. The oldest of the "Big Five" orchestras, this orchestra is currently led by Jaap van Zweden ["YOP fon ZWAY-din"] and has historically been the home of such conductors as Gustav Mahler and Leonard Bernstein ["BURN-styne"].
  Part 2 (ans: NBC Symphony Orchestra [prompt on partial answer]):
    This orchestra, one of the most prominent in the "Golden Age" of American classical music, was formed specifically for the conductor Arturo Toscanini. Although not part of the "Big Five," this radio orchestra was originally disbanded in 1954 but was reformed and premiered Amahl and the Night Visitor
  Part 3 (ans: Leopold Stokowski):
    The successor the NBC Symphony Orchestra, the Symphony of the Air, was led by this conductor. This Polish emigre is most famous for leading the Philadelphia Orchestra and notably orchestrated many works, including the Toccata and Fugue and Pictures at an Exhibition.

[BM4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the final act of an opera, Magda leaves this location to go home and kill herself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the consul's office):
    Identify this unnamed location where many people are waiting. A magician performs magic tricks to impress the secretary here, and Magda's husband, the dissident John Sorel, is eventually captured after showing up here.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    The consul's office is a major setting in The Consul, an opera by this man. He composed the first opera specifically made for television.
  Part 3 (ans: Jesus [or Christ]):
    Menotti's television opera, Amahl and the Night Visitors, is about a crippled boy named Amahl who is visited by the Magi, three kings bearing gifts intended for this recent newborn.

[BM5] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer used a subject beginning E-flat G-flat B-flat D in a four-voice fugue that constitutes the last movement of his piano sonata. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Barber [or Samuel Osborne Barber II]):
    Name this American composer of Knoxville: Summer of 1915, who adapted a movement from his B minor string quartet into Adagio for Strings.
  Part 2 (ans: essays):
    Barber wrote three of these orchestral works, the first of which was premiered by Toscanini alongside Adagio for Strings. These works, named after a literary form, develop out of a single melodic theme.
  Part 3 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Barber lived in a house called Capricorn with this composer of Amahl and the Night Visitors and The Saint of Bleecker Street. This man also founded the Spoleto Festivals.

[BM6] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Songs in this opera include "All That Gold" and "From Far Away We Come." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors):
    The title child of this opera asks Balthazar, Kaspar, and Melchior about the gifts they are bringing.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Amahl and the Night Visitors was written by this composer of The Old Man and the Thief, a radio opera, as well as The Consul.
  Part 3 (ans: woman [do NOT accept "castrato", prompt on "soprano" or "mezzo-soprano", prompt on "adult]):
    Menotti was adamant that the role of Amahl be played by a child, rather than by this kind of performer who commonly plays the roles of boys and young men in opera.

[BM7] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title figure's mother tries to steal gold intended for the Christ child for her son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors):
    Name this opera about the title figure's encounter with the Three Kings. It was the first opera composed for television broadcast.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    This Italian composer wrote Amahl and the Night Visitors. He also won the Pulitzer Prize for the operas The Consul and The Saint of Bleecker Street.
  Part 3 (ans: his crutch [accept reasonable equivalents such as a staff]):
    When King Melchior tells Amahl and his mother that the king they will meet won't require gifts of gold, they seek to honor the Christ child by sending gifts. Amahl decides to give him this item in thanks for being healed.

[BM8] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This aria is sung by the mother of the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "All that Gold!"):
    Name this aria, in which that woman wonders how a group of gift givers cannot understand the troubles of the poor and proceeds to be caught while stealing some of the namesake substance.
  Part 2 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors ):
    "All that Gold!" and "This is my box" are arias from this opera, in which the title character is cured of an ailment after giving a gift of his only possession to King Melchior.
  Part 3 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Amahl and the Night Visitors was written by this composer, who also wrote an opera about a woman who has religious visions, The Saint of Bleecker Street.

[BM9] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It is followed by the song "Thief! Thief!," which is sung by the page of the kings of the Orient. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "All That Gold"):
    Name this song sung by Amahl's mother in Amahl and the Night Visitors after she sees the gifts brought by the Magi for Jesus.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Rosemary Kuhlmann sang "All That Gold" in Amahl and the Night Visitors, an opera by this life partner of Samuel Barber.
  Part 3 (ans: The Saint of Bleecker Street):
    Kuhlmann also sang the role of Desideria in this Menotti opera which tells the story of Annina, a girl living in New York's Little Italy who has stigmata.

[BM10] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The central dialogue of this opera is often interrupted due to the poor quality of the French telephone system. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Human Voice [or La voix humaine]):
    Name this one-act opera in which the only character, the woman Elle, talks to her lover on the telephone. With a libretto by Jean Cocteau, it was its composer's last opera.
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Poulenc):
    This member of Les Six composed The Human Voice. He also adapted a surrealist play by Guillaume Apollinaire for his opera The Breasts of Tiresias, and a Georges Bernanos screenplay for his opera Dialogues of the Carmelites.
  Part 3 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Another one-act opera that involves a telephone is the appropriately-named The Telephone, which was composed by this American who included the three Magi in his opera Amahl and the Night Visitors.
