=== STOCK CLUES: Amahl and the Night Visitors ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about pieces of music written to commemorate the United States Bicentennial in 1976, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: John Cage [or John Milton Cage, Jr.]):
    In this composer's Apartment House 1776, four soloists represent Protestant, Sephardic, Native American, and African American traditions. David Tudor premiered this composer's silent piece 4'33" ("four-thirty-three").
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti (That opera is Amahl and the Night Visitors.)):
    This composer wrote numerous commissions for the Bicentennial, including his opera The Hero satirizing Watergate. He is best-known for a Christmas opera that was specifically composed for TV.
  Part 3 (ans: Des canyons aux etoiles... [or From the canyons to the stars...]):
    The French composer Olivier Messiaen ("oh-leev-YAY mess-YAWN") traveled to Utah while writing this piece for the Bicentennial, which includes a challenging horn solo dubbed an "Interstellar Call." Five of this piece's 12 movements are inspired by birdsong from across the US.

[B2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The soprano in this opera sings of her worry over her lover in "no Word from Tom," and sings him the lullaby "Gently, little boat" in its last act. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rake's Progress [do not accept "A Rake's Progress"]):
    Name this 1951 opera whose protagonist marries the bearded lady Baba the Turk. Tom dies insane hallucinating he is Adonis after winning a card game against Nick Shadow.
  Part 2 (ans: Igor (Fyodorovich) Stravinsky):
    The Rake's Progress was the last neoclassical work by this composer of Oedipus Rex and Symphony of Psalms. In his Russian period, he composed The Firebird.
  Part 3 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors [by Gian-Carlo Menotti]):
    Other English operas premiered during the fruitful year of 1951 include Billy Budd, The Pilgrim's Progress, and this first opera composed for television. Its protagonist sings "I Walk, Mother" when healed upon giving his crutch to the Three Kings to give the Christ Child.

[B3] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Songs in this opera include "All That Gold" and "From Far Away We Come." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors):
    The title child of this opera asks Balthazar, Kaspar, and Melchior about the gifts they are bringing.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Amahl and the Night Visitors was written by this composer of The Old Man and the Thief, a radio opera, as well as The Consul.
  Part 3 (ans: woman [do NOT accept "castrato", prompt on "soprano" or "mezzo-soprano", prompt on "adult]):
    Menotti was adamant that the role of Amahl be played by a child, rather than by this kind of performer who commonly plays the roles of boys and young men in opera.

[B4] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title figure's mother tries to steal gold intended for the Christ child for her son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors):
    Name this opera about the title figure's encounter with the Three Kings. It was the first opera composed for television broadcast.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    This Italian composer wrote Amahl and the Night Visitors. He also won the Pulitzer Prize for the operas The Consul and The Saint of Bleecker Street.
  Part 3 (ans: his crutch [accept reasonable equivalents such as a staff]):
    When King Melchior tells Amahl and his mother that the king they will meet won't require gifts of gold, they seek to honor the Christ child by sending gifts. Amahl decides to give him this item in thanks for being healed.

[B5] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This aria is sung by the mother of the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "All that Gold!"):
    Name this aria, in which that woman wonders how a group of gift givers cannot understand the troubles of the poor and proceeds to be caught while stealing some of the namesake substance.
  Part 2 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors ):
    "All that Gold!" and "This is my box" are arias from this opera, in which the title character is cured of an ailment after giving a gift of his only possession to King Melchior.
  Part 3 (ans: Gian Carlo Menotti):
    Amahl and the Night Visitors was written by this composer, who also wrote an opera about a woman who has religious visions, The Saint of Bleecker Street.

[B6] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A magician in this opera tries to gain access to the title character but ends up frightening a woman instead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Consul):
    Name this opera about Magda's struggle to get permission to leave the country with her political dissident husband, John. The opera ends with Magda committing suicide using her gas oven.
  Part 2 (ans: Amahl and the Night Visitors):
    Menotti, the composer of The Consul, wrote this opera in which the main character offers his crutch to three kings, which gets his leg healed. This opera was composed for a Christmas television special.
  Part 3 (ans: The Medium):
    This other Menotti opera is about Madame Flora who pretends to be the title spiritualist but ends up hearing voices that cause her to shoot and kill Toby.
