=== STOCK CLUES: Georges de la Tour ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: de La Tour [accept Georges de La Tour or Maurice-Quentin de La Tour]
  - An artist with this surname was fond of depicting an old hurdy-gurdy player in many paintings, including one where he is fighting in The Musicians' Brawl. [PWR]
  - An artist with this surname made many joyful self portraits such as Self-Portrait with Index Finger, and may have influenced Joseph Ducreux, who claimed to be that artist's only student. [PWR]
  - A painting by an artist with this surname depicts a shifty woman in a feathered hat across from a (*) card sharp retrieving a card from his belt. [PWR]
  - An artist with this surname painted portraits of Rousseau and Voltaire as a leading pastel artist of the Rococo era, and is named Maurice-Quentin.
  - The Caravaggisti influenced one artist with this surname, who created chiaroscuro-heavy interior scenes of a penitent Magdalene lit by candlelight.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the French Baroque artist with the first name Georges. [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: France [accept the Kingdom of France or Royaume de France] [The other artists are, respectively, Georges de la Tour and Claude Lorrain.]
  - One artist from this country depicted a musician squeezing lemon juice into the eye of a supposedly blind fellow beggar in The Musician's Brawl and made several candlelit scenes of Mary Magdalene. [PWR]
  - Another artist from this country showed the title Biblical monarch descending towards a boat in one of his signature seaport landscapes, The Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba. [PWR]
  - A possible depiction of the origin of painting showing a shepherd tracing a shadow on a (*) tomb displaying the title inscription was painted by a Classical artist from this country, who also depicted four figures linking hands beneath Apollo's chariot in his A Dance to the Music of Time. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, native son Nicolas Poussin's (poo-SANN's)Et in Arcadia Ego can be found in what country's Louvre museum? [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Georges de La Tour
  - This artist painted a man holding a knife at bay with a woodwind instrument in The Musician's Quarrel, and showed a pregnant woman sitting on a stool in The Flea Catcher. [PWR]
  - A foppish young man on the right sits next to a courtesan and has wine poured for him as his opponent cheats him in both of this artist's paintings The Cheat with the Ace of Clubs and The Cheat with the Ace of Diamonds. [PWR]
  - He painted a boy having his fortune read while two women surreptitiously steal his coin purse and his watch in The Fortune Teller. [PWR]
  - This (*) resident of Luneville painted a seated woman clasping her hands above a skull and looking into the reflection of a candle in the mirror in his version of The Penitent Magdalene.
  - He painted a similar scene in Magdalen with the Smoking Flame.
  - FTP, name this French imitator of Caravaggio known for his interior scenes lit only by candles.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Four tobacco pipes hang on a white wall behind people performing this activity in one entry of a series by Paul Cezanne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: playing cards [or card games; prompt on gambling]):
    Name this activity. In another painting, a man reaches behind his back while casting a sidelong glance at the viewer while three seated people perform this activity.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges de La Tour("ZHORZH duh la TOOR")):
    This French baroque painter completed paintings showing a card sharp reaching to grab both an Ace of Diamonds and an Ace of Clubs. This man's signature chiaroscuro ("k'YAH-ross-CURE-oh") aesthetic is seen in works like his Magdalene with a Smoking Flame.
  Part 3 (ans: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi de Caravaggio]):
    This painter depicted a man reaching for cards tucked into his belt in The Cardsharps. This Italian artist, often credited with inventing tenebrism, painted The Calling of St. Matthew.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The early origins of this technique are sometimes attributed to the lost, intense, and crosshatched shadows of the Greek painter Apollodorus Skiagraphos. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chiaroscuro [prompt on skiagraphia]):
    Name this painting technique that uses contrasting black and white chalk to create the illusion of depth. Caravaggio's followers developed tenebrism from this technique.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges de la Tour):
    This artist learned tenebrism from Gerrit Honthorst and depicted a cardsharp tipping a hidden Ace of Clubs to the viewer. This French Baroque artist's dark paintings like The Penitent Magdalene are lit by a single candle.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Wright of Derby):
    A candle inside an orrery emulates an eclipse and illuminates a philosopher resembling Godfrey Kneller's portraits of Isaac Newton in a painting by this British artist who later depicted a bird in an air pump.

[B3] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The works of this painter were largely forgotten until the publication of a 1915 article by German art historian Herman Voss. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges de La Tour):
    Name this 17th-century genre painter who did most of his work in the small village of Luneville under the patronage of Louis XIII. He painted The Fortune Teller and candle-lit scenes like Joseph the Carpenter.
  Part 2 (ans: playing cards [accept The Card Cheat; accept The Cardsharps]):
    La Tour painted two versions of a scene in which three people on the left collude against a youth in this activity. A similar painting by Caravaggio shows two boys cheating a third at this activity.
  Part 3 (ans: pentimento [or pentimenti]):
    Historians have speculated that the Louvre's version of The Card Cheat is the original based on these features. This Italian term refers to small changes made during the creation of a painting, often revealed using X-ray analysis.

[B4] 2018 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Pierre Rosenberg theorized that this artist's Blind Hurdy-Gurdy Player is a fragment of a larger painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges de La Tour):
    Name this 17th-century French artist who painted religious scenes illuminated by candlelight.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Magdalene [prompt on Mary]):
    La Tour's painting of this woman "with the smoking flame" can be seen in Ariel's grotto in a scene from The Little Mermaid. The Met houses another La Tour painting of this "penitent" Biblical figure.
  Part 3 (ans: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi]):
    Like Gerard van Honthorst and other painters from Utrecht, La Tour was heavily influenced by the tenebrism seen in The Conversion of Saint Paul and other paintings by this Italian artist.

[B5] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many paintings that may be by this man have been attributed to the mysterious Hurdy-Gurdy master. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges de la Tour):
    Name this artist of many candle-lit religious scenes like his Magdalene with the Smoking Flame.
  Part 2 (ans: chiaroscuro [accept tenebrism]):
    In Magdalene with the Smoking Flame, de la Tour used this technique to emphasize the contrast of light and dark. Gerard van Honthorst and Hendrick ter Brugghen also frequently used this technique.
  Part 3 (ans: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi; or Michelangelo Amerighi]):
    Gerard van Honthorst and Hendrick ter Brugghen were heavily influenced by this early Baroque artist and master of chiaroscuro, a technique he used in The Calling of St. Matthew.

[B6] 2015 PACE NSC (2015) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about 17th century artists who used dramatic lighting, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi; do not prompt on just "Michelangelo"]):
    Light emerges from an unseen window to the right of the canvas in this Italian Baroque artist's The Calling of Saint Matthew.
  Part 2 (ans: Judith beheading Holofernes [or Judith and Holofernes; or Judith Slaying Holofernes]):
    Caravaggio and Artemisia Gentileschi both painted eerily lit versions of this bloody scene from the Apocrypha, in which one title character decapitates the other after seducing her way into his tent.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges de La Tour):
    Representative canvases by this French artist include St. Joseph the Carpenter and a painting where Saint Jerome holds a candle to the piece of paper he's reading.

[B7] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Portraits of musicians by an artist from this group include King David Playing the Harp and The Happy Violinist with a Glass of Wine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caravaggisti [or Caravagesques; or descriptive answers akin to followers of Caravaggio]):
    Name this pan-European set of artists represented in Spain by Francisco Ribalta and in Utretcht by Gerrit van Honthorst and Hendrick ter Brugghen. These painters adopted the tenebrism of their namesake painter.
  Part 2 (ans: chiaroscuro):
    The Caravaggisti also made heavy use of this technique of strongly contrasting light and dark. Appropriately, this term is Italian for "light-dark."
  Part 3 (ans: Georges de la Tour):
    Though not a member of the Caravaggisti, this French artist from the generation after Caravaggio's used chiaroscuro in religious scenes like The Penitent Magdalene, which are all illuminated by a single candle.

[B8] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Another version of this painting's subject that shows the title fgure with "the smoking fame" is housed in the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Penitent Magdalene [or La Madeleine Penitente; accept Magdalene with Two Flames or La Madeleine aux deux flammes] ):
    Name this painting owned by the Met that shows a woman sitting in a dark room with a skull on her lap staring into a gold-framed mirror that refects the light of a single candle.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges de La Tour):
    The Penitent Magdalene was painted by this French Baroque artist known for his candle-light scenes. His painting The Fortune Teller was at the center of a huge forgery controversy when the Met bought it afer it was serendipitously rediscovered afer World War Two.
  Part 3 (ans: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi]):
    La Tour was heavily infuenced by this Italian Baroque artist who also painted a Penitent Magdalene and inspired La Tour with his gambling scenes, such as The Cardsharps.

[B9] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter created a scene showing a young woman stealing a ring from a young man who is gazing affectionately at her, The Fortune Teller. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio):
    Name this Italian artist, who showed Paul fallen off his horse in Conversion on the Way to Damascus. He used himself as the subject of several of his works, such as Sick Bacchus.
  Part 2 (ans: chiaroscuro):
    Caravaggio was a pioneer of this technique, in which backgrounds are made intentionally dark to contrast with the brightness of the subjects.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges de la Tour):
    This French Baroque painter also used chiaroscuro in several paintings where the light source is a single candle. Those works include The Penitent Magdalene, Magdalene with the Smoking Flame, and The Dream of St. Joseph.

[B10] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Kimbell Art Museum contains this artist's The Card-Sharps with the Ace of Clubs, and a man with a vulgarly open mouth plays the title instrument in his The Hurdy-Gurdy Player. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges de La Tour):
    Identify this French artist greatly influenced by Caravaggio, best known for chiaroscuro works like The Newborn Christ.
  Part 2 (ans: Saint Sebastian):
    This figure is being treated by Saint Irene, who holds a large torch in a Georges de La Tour painting. This saint is bound to a tree and has several arrows sticking into him in an El Greco painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Anton Raphael Mengs [or Anton Raffael Mengs]):
    Like Georges de La Tour, this Neoclassical artist painted a version of The Dream of Saint Joseph. Johann Winckelmann lauded his Parnassus fresco for the Villa Albani, and this man painted the Apotheosis of Hercules for a palace in Madrid.
