=== STOCK CLUES: Richard Serra ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: steel [accept weathering steel or COR-TEN steel; accept stainless steel; accept carbon steel; prompt on metal; reject "iron"] (The sculpture on which Hammons urinated for his piece Pissed Off and threw sneakers onto for his piece Shoe Tree is T.W.U. by Richard Serra. La Grand Vitesse and Flamingo are by Alexander Calder.)
  - In 1981, Dawoud Bey photographed David Hammons urinating and throwing fifty sneakers on a sculpture made of this material. [PWR]
  - Bay of Biscay sea foam flows through three Eduardo Chillida  sculptures made of this material in San Sebastian called the Comb of the Wind. [PWR]
  - Tony Rosenthal used this material for the once-spinnable cube-shaped sculpture Alamo. [PWR]
  - Aerodynamic principles informed the use of this material for a winged Gateshead sculpture. [PWR]
  - La Grand Vitesse in Grand Rapids and an (*) avian sculpture in Chicago feature an artist's namesake red on this material. [PWR]
  - Antony Gormley's Angel of the North and Richard Serra's Tilted Arc were made of this material's COR-TEN type, which was used for a Chicago sculpture inspired by Picasso's Afghan hound.
  - For 10 points, Anish Kapoor's Cloud Gate is made of what material's stainless variety? [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Serra
  - This artist created a parody of Saturn Devouring His Son with George W. [PWR]
  - Bush's head in place of Saturn's, and William Gaddis satirized this artist as Mr.
  - Szyrk, whose sculpture trapped a dog inside it, in the novel A Frolic of His Own. [PWR]
  - This sculptor's wife requested that "people not step on me" due to a public habit of placing footprints on a sculpture dedicated to her, which is shaped like two inverted C's.
  - This sculptor of an 80-foot-tall heptagon in Qatar named "7" was inspired by a Borromini church to create a sculpture which used computer modeling to design (*) "topological deformations" of curved, oblong walls. [PWR]
  - This sculptor of Clara, Clara and Torqued Ellipses is more famous for a piece removed from Federal Plaza in New York City after being declared extremely rusted and disruptive to pedestrians.
  - For 10 points, name this American minimalist sculptor, known for working with large pieces of sheet metal in pieces like Tilted Arc. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Serra
  - A work by this artist used in an ad for pleasevote.com depicts a George Bush-headed Saturn devouring one of his sons. [PWR]
  - In the third film of the Cremaster Cycle, this person portrayed the relatively normally-dressed Freemason figure Hiram Abiff. [PWR]
  - In one of this artist's video works, the Prisoner's Dilemma is explained and acted out in the form of a game show.
  - This sculptor's work in the Hall of Witness is cut into by a staircase and made of almost thirty tons of steel.
  - This sculptor created a roughly heptagonal eighty-foot-tall work for the Museum of Islamic Art. [PWR]
  - One of his works was meant to be (*) walked through and around and was part of an installation of his where it was surrounded by several curved, rust-brown other sculptures of his, such as torqued spirals and ellipses.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of process artworks such as Snake and the accompanying installation The Matter of Time. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: 122 ways of "not making" one of these objects make up a Sol LeWitt sculpture titled after "Incomplete Open" types of these objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cubes [accept Cubism or Cubists or analytic Cubism or synthetic Cubism; accept Incomplete Open Cubes]):
    Give these geometric shapes that name an art movement which is divided into "analytic" and "synthetic" periods and which was co-founded by Georges Braque.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Serra (The second line refers to Tilted Arc.)):
    This artist's early-career sculpture One Ton Prop consists of four lead antimony plates arranged into a cube. A COR-TEN steel sculpture by this artist was removed from Foley Square in 1989 following a federal lawsuit.
  Part 3 (ans: David Smith [or Roland David Smith; prompt on Smith alone]):
    This artist only completed twenty-eight entries in his CUBI series before dying in a car crash. This abstract expressionist often used welded steel for sculptural series such as Zig and Agricola.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 1986 visit to Alaska inspired this artist to create a piece in which a steel pipeline weaves through the installation room and leaks a puddle of oil onto a white floor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nancy Holt):
    Name this land artist who created the piece Sun Tunnels in Utah, where she rallied to preserve Spiral Jetty by her late husband Robert Smithson.
  Part 2 (ans: Texas [or TX]):
    After Smithson's death, Holt completed his piece Amarillo Ramp in this US state, whose town of Marfa contains Donald Judd's land art piece 15 Untitled Works in Concrete. This state is also home to the Rothko Chapel.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Serra):
    On live TV in 1974, this artist videotaped Holt listening to herself with a one-second delay for their collaboration Boomerang. This artist became embroiled in a free speech trial about his steel sculpture Tilted Arc.

[B3] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about when art kills, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: mobile):
    During an installation of an Alexander Calder piece at Princeton, a snapped cable resulted in the death of two workmen. Calder originated this type of sculpture whose shapes move in response to touch or air currents.
  Part 2 (ans: Christo [or Christo Vladimirov Javacheff]):
    This artist and his wife once took seven years to set up thousands of yellow umbrellas in California and blue umbrellas in Japan as part of an art project. High winds blew an umbrella in California loose, killing a bystander.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Serra):
    A piece by this sculptor, noted for working with large-scale assemblies of sheet metal, had a part break free from its support and kill a rigger in Minneapolis. He installed Tilted Arc, an arc of rusted steel in New York City's Federal Plaza.

[B4] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The highlight of a 1966 symposium on this art form was John Latham's "Skoob Towers," made of books. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: auto-destructive art [or equivalents that communicate the idea of art that destroys itself]):
    Identify this type of art pioneered by Gustav Metzger, who protested nuclear proliferation with works made out of acid and nylon. Jean Tinguely's 1960 sculpture Homage to New York was this type of artwork.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Serra):
    This artist created his Hours of the Day out of Cor-Ten Steel, which is designed to corrode over time. He argued that "To remove the work is to destroy it" during a controversy over one of his sculptures in New York's Federal Plaza.
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    This Dadaist combined a metronome and a photograph of an eye into the readymade Object To Be Destroyed, which student protesters actually destroyed in 1957. He also created the photograph Le Violon d'Ingres (le vee-oh-lohn d'AHN-greh).

[B5] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Along with its northern neighbor, this country is home to a musical genre in which a solo vocalist sings a story while a second performer beats a drum, called pansori. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: South Korea [or Republic of Korea]):
    Name this Asian country home to a pioneer of video art who had Charlotte Moorman draw her bow across three stacked television screens for his TV Cello. This country produced Nam June Paik and director Park Chan-Wook.
  Part 2 (ans: Electronic Superhighway: Continental U.S., Alaska, Hawaii):
    This video installation by Paik, named for a phrase he coined, consists of a large map of the United States with state borders formed by neon lights. Each state is filled in with a set of television screens showing a unique feed.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Serra):
    This artist's foray into video art includes his Hand Catching Lead, a film showing his hand repeatedly trying to grab at a falling piece of lead. This sculptor used very large sheets of metal for The Matter of Time and Tilted Arc.

[B6] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about 20th Century sculpture for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Constantin Brancusi):
    The phallic Princess X and the minimalist Bird in Space are among the most recognizable works by this Romanian sculptor.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Moore):
    Famously inspired by depictions of the Mayan god Chac, this British sculptor is famous for his depictions of reclining figures.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Serra):
    This abstract American sculptor's works generally just consist of giant pieces of sheet metal placed in inconvenient places, like sidewalks in Manhattan. While his merit as an artist may be questionable, no one can deny his skill at pissing off pedestrians.

[B7] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of panels is covered by a tangled mass of cotton-covered wire in this artist's Metronomic Irregularity II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eva Hesse):
    Name this artist, who attached a long metal tube to an empty canvas in her sculpture Hang Up. She frequently worked with materials like fiberglass and latex, and was called a postminimalist by Robert Pincus-Witten.
  Part 2 (ans: the Museum of Modern Art [or the MoMa]):
    Hesse's sculpture Repetition Nineteen is displayed at this New York City museum on 53rd street, whose collection includes Christina's World and Matisse's The Dance. It hosted a major Picasso retrospective in 1940.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Serra):
    In June, the MoMa acquired this artist's sculpture Equal, which consists of eight massive steel cubes. This American artist frequently works with sheet metal, such as in his sculpture The Matter of Time for the Guggenheim Bilbao, which consists of brown-painted curved steel walls that form ellipses, spirals, and other shapes.
