=== STOCK CLUES: François Villon ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 15 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Francois Villon ("vee-YON")
  - This author wrote a poem whose narrator tells Death that he "seem[s] alive as lifelessly / As in the choir the painted stone" after his wife dies. [PWR]
  - Subjects of a poem by this author ask Jesus to "prevent Hell from having lordship over us"; that poem repeats the line "but pray God that he wills to absolve us all!" It's not Sappho, but Algernon Swinburne translated many works by this author, whom he called "our sad bad glad mad brother." A group of (*) "hanged men" are the subjects of one of sixteen ballades in a collection by this author. [PWR]
  - Dante Gabriel Rossetti most famously translated the word "antan" in a poem by this author lamenting the deaths of Heloise  and Joan of Arc.
  - For 10 points, name this medieval French poet of the collection The Testament, whose "Ballad of Dead Ladies" repeatedly asks, "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Francois Villon
  - James McAuley's liking of a poem by this author inspired an Ern Malley poem that opens "In the twenty-fifth year of my age." The lament that "Rain has washed us, laundered us / and the sun has dried us black" appears in a poem by this author that was used as the epigraph to In Cold Blood.
  - This author of Le Petit Testament or Le Lais inspired a Rodin sculpture with his poem "The Regrets Of La Belle Heaulmiere." A poem by this author repeats (*) "pray God / would us all absolve." One poem by this author opens "Tell me now in what hidden way is / Lady Flora the lovely Roman?" Dante Gabriel Rossetti translated this man's line about "les neiges d'antan" as "where are the snows of yesteryear?" For 10 points, what poet included "The Ballad of the Dead Ladies" in his Le Testament? [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Francois Villon (the unnamed poem with multiple speakers is "The Ballad of the Hanged Men")
  - In one poem by this author, an "Armouress" talks about her wish to "be a girl again" and states, "Oh, old age... you've battered me so, and why?" The speakers of a poem by this author plead with men to "not look coldly on the scene you view," asking them to "pity wretchedness and pain." The speaker of a poem by this author calls (+) Heloise the "learned nun" who made Abelard lose "manhood and put priesthood on." This author of "The Regrets of the Beautiful Heaulmiere" also wrote a poem whose speakers hope to have "no part of what may" befall in Hell before repeating the phrase, "pray to God that he forgive us all." This author wrote a poem whose speaker asks where (*) women like Flora, Queen Blanche, and Joan of Arc have gone.
  - Every stanza of that poem by this author ends with the line, "But where are the snows of yesteryear?" For 10 points, name this author whose poem "The Ballad of the Dead Ladies" is collected in Le Testament. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Francois Villon [vee-YAWN]
  - David Georgi translated a poem by this author in which the speaker threatens to pawn a prostitute's clothes, until "that little Antichrist wheezes / and howls and swears by the death of Jesus / that I'll do no such thing." Each stanza of that poem by this author ends by referencing "the old whorehouse where" he and the title figure "hold court." In Richard Wilbur's translation of a different poem by this author, the speakers describe "the wind's fantasy / Which has no object, yet would have us be / (Pitted like thimbles) at its beck and call" and the title (*) group as "rinsed and laundered by the rain." This author of "The Ballad of Fat Margot" wrote a poem whose speaker asks "Where's Hipparchia, and where is Thais" in a translation by Dante Gabriel Rossetti; that translation repeats the refrain "Where are the snows of yester-year?" For 10 points, name this medieval French author of Le Grand Testament, which contains his poem "The Ballad of Dead Ladies." [PWR,GIVE]

[T5] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Francois Villon
  - This man included a refrain about being "Welcomed gladly, and spurned by everyone" in a poem which opens with a description of himself "dying of thirst beside the fountain." Shortly before his death, this man published a joking quatrain proclaiming "my neck will learn the weight of my ass." A poem by this man describes men "rinsed and laundered by the rain, And by the sunlight dried and blackened too," who "to and fro sway at the wind's fantasy." Jean Buridan's apocryphal death by drowning in the Seine is referenced in one of this man's poems, which mentions the burning of Joan of Arc before exhorting "Nay, never ask this week, fair lord, Where they are gone, nor yet this year." Dante Gabriel Rossetti translated that poem, which features the refrain "But where are the snows of yesteryear?" For 10 points, name this French ne'er-do-well who wrote The Testament, which includes "The Ballad of Dead Ladies." [GIVE]

[T6] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Francois Villon
  - One poem by this author contains two stanzas that are acrostics spelling out his name and the name of "Martha," who may be a "false beauty." A blason by this author is paralleled by a reverse blason in which an old woman describes how her attractive features have deteriorated with age.
  - A poem by this author speaks favorably of Duke Artus, King Alphonso and Pope Callixtus the Third.
  - Another of his poems describes the alcoholism of "our good late Master Jean Cotart." A poetic sequence by this author opens by describing the humiliation that he experienced at the hands of the Bishop Thibault d'Aussigny.
  - In a series of stanzas beginning with "Item," this writer bequeaths various possessions to real and hypothetical people.
  - This author wrote two ubi sunt ballades about the ladies and men of times past, and the lines "where, where is worthy Charlemagne?" and "where are the snows of yesteryear?" For 10 points, name this medieval French poet who wrote Le Grande Testament. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet included twenty poems in octosyllabic verse in a collection composed shortly before his banishment and disappearance in 1463. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Villon ("vee-YON")):
    Name this poet of The Testament. A ballade ("bah-LAD") of ladies by this poet asks about "the very wise Heloise" before concluding each stanza with the refrain, "Where are the snows of yesteryear?"
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Rabelais ("ra-be-LAY")):
    This Renaissance-era French author included several anecdotes about Villon in the fourth book of Gargantua and Pantagruel.
  Part 3 (ans: Le Roman de la Rose [or The Romance of the Rose]):
    Like Villon's ballade, a reference to Heloise is found in the second part of this poem. This poem's first part, which was composed decades earlier, is set in a walled garden.

[B2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Bertolt Brecht frequently stole the work of others, mostly his lovers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mother Courage [or Mutter Courage; accept Mother Courage and Her Children; accept Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder]):
    One of the at least half dozen plays Brecht co-wrote with Margarete Steffin is partly titled for this canteen woman who tries to survive the Thirty Years War' with her children.
  Part 2 (ans: Elisabeth Hauptmann):
    Besides Steffin and Rita Berlau, Brecht's main uncredited collaborator was this woman, who co-wrote the text of The Threepenny Opera and The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny. John Fuegi controversially claims that she wrote at least 80% of the former.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Villon):
    Four songs in The Threepenny Opera were lifted by Brecht from Karl Anton Klammer's translations of this French poet, who asked "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" in his "Ballad of the Ladies of Bygone Years."

[B3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The lines "my sweet dear, I send cheer, all the best!" open this author's poem "To a Sick Damsel," in which each line has only three syllables. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clement Marot (mah-ROH) [or Le ton beau de Marot]):
    Name this French poet and member of Marguerite de Navarre's literary court. A Douglas Hofstadter book on the difficulties of translation is titled for the Ton Beau (tohn BO) of this poet.
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Petrarch [or Francesco Petrarca]):
    Marot's own translations include one of this poet's collection Il Canzoniere (cant-zohn-YAIR-ay), in which this poet addressed Laura.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Villon (vee-ON)):
    In between his own spells of imprisonment, Marot also edited the work of this poet and frequent criminal, including the collection The Testament. This author's poem "Ballad of the Ladies of Times Past" includes the oft-quoted line, "Where are the snows of yesteryear?"

[B4] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet is described as one "For whom all winds are quiet as the sun, / All waters as the shore" in a eulogy published the year before they actually died. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles (Pierre) Baudelaire):
    Name this poet eulogized in Algernon Swinburne's Catullus-inspired poem "Ave Atque Vale," which opens with a quote from their collection The Flowers of Evil.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Villon ("vee-YAWN")):
    Swinburne claimed that this poet had a "sad bad glad mad brother's name" and was "Prince of All Ballad-Makers." This poet asked, "but where are the snows of yesteryear?" in "The Ballade of the Ladies of Bygone Days."
  Part 3 (ans: Theophile Gautier (tay-oh-FEEL goat-YAY)):
    Stephane Mallarme asked Swinburne to contribute to a Tombeau dedicated to this poet. This poet compared a sketch of mermaids to "drowned lilies dancing" in the collection Enamels and Cameos.

[B5] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these poets who were and/or are prominent songwriters:
  Part 1 (ans: Bob Dylan [or Robert Allen Zimmerman]):
    This musician's lyrics for folk songs such as "Tambourine Man" have been included in many literary and poetry anthologies, contributing to his controversial award of the Nobel Prize in 2016.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Villon ("vee-YOHN")):
    This medieval French songwriter and poet adapted Parisian thieves's songs in many of his poems. His collection Le Testament ("tes-tah-MON") contains a poem which asks "Where are the snows of yesteryear?"
  Part 3 (ans: Kazi Nazrul Islam [prompt on Rebel Poet]):
    This Bengali author wrote many songs and poems which have been adapted into a music genre called his namesake Geeti. He wrote "I raise my head beyond this world" in one such poem, "The Rebel".

[B6] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the ubi sunt formula, in which poems repeat the words "where are" to evoke nostalgia or the transience of life, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Villon ("vee-YAWN")):
    The archetypal example of the genre is the "Ballade of the Ladies of Times Past" by this 15th-century poet and criminal, which memorably refrains the line "where are the snows of yesteryear?"
  Part 2 (ans: John Keats):
    The line "Where are the songs of spring? Ay, Where are they?" indicates a tonal shift toward a barren landscape in "To Autumn," which joins "Ode on a Grecian Urn" as part of this author's "1819 odes."
  Part 3 (ans: The Wanderer):
    The Old English words hwær cwom ("hwair quome"), meaning "where has gone," are used throughout this 10th-century Anglo-Saxon poem about an exiled retainer reflecting on his days serving his lord.

[B7] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Dante Gabriel Rossetti translated one of this man's poems into English as "The Ballad of Dead Ladies." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Villon):
    Name this poet who wrote about the underworld of 15th-century Paris in his Le grand testament.
  Part 2 (ans: (where are) the snows of yesteryear [or Mais ou sont les neiges d'anton]):
    Rossetti translated the best-known line of Villon's poetry, which asks "where are these weather phenomena "of yesteryear"?
  Part 3 (ans: Heloise [or Heloisa]):
    "The Ballad of Dead Ladies" asks for several women, including this "learned nun," for whom her lover "Lost manhood and put priesthood on."

[B8] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name the following French poets:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Villon (vee-OWN)):
    This 15th-century French poet and criminal wrote the collection Le Grand Testament, which includes the "Ballad of the Ladies of Times Past," which repeatedly asks "Where are the snows of yesteryear?"
  Part 2 (ans: Stephane Mallarme [or Etienne Mallarme]):
    This French symbolist was known for his fin de siecle (fin duh see-AY-kluh) style and his multilayered and visual poetry, such as in his poem "A roll of the dice will never abolish chance."
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    Mallarme described a "tutelary poison" that "We breathe in always though it bring us death" in his poem about the tomb of this other poet, who included sections titled "Wine," "Revolt", and "Death" in his collection Les Fleurs du Mal.

[B9] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This question follows "Who had a beauty too much more than human?," "Who ordered that Buridan be thrown in a sack into the Seine," and "Where are they, oh sovereign Virgin" in the first three stanzas of its poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" [or "Mais ou sont les neiges d'antan?"]):
    Give this question which ends every verse of the "Ballad of the Ladies of Times Past."
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Villon):
    This medieval French scoundrel wrote the "Ballad of the Ladies of Times Past."
  Part 3 (ans: Le (Grand) Testament):
    The "Ballad of the Ladies of Times Past" appears in this larger collection of octosyllabic verse, Villon's masterpiece, which contains almost all of his surviving poems.

[B10] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Here's a bonus on French authors who mixed creative writing with healthy careers in crime. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Villon):
    In addition to being the subject of the awesome Robert Louis Stevenson short story "A Lodging for the Night," this lovable brawler and church-looter famously asked "where are the snows of yesteryear?" in his "Ballad of Dead Ladies."
  Part 2 (ans: Deathwatch (or Haute Surveillance)):
    Notable male prostitute and petty larcenist Jean Genet drew on his experiences in prison for several works, including this play in which Lefranc tries to impress Green-Eyes by strangling Maurice.
  Part 3 (ans: Donatien Alphonse Francois, Marquis de Sade):
    This man spent a lot of jail time for sexually abusing his servants and writing about orgies, rape, and murder in classics like Juliette, Justine, and 120 Days of Sodom.

[B11] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker claims "Our skin has more bird peckings than if it were sewed" before repeating the refrain "But pray that God absolves us all!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Ballad of the Hanged Men" [or "Ballade des Pendus"; or "L'´Epitaphe de Villon"; or "Fr`eres humains"] ):
    Name this poem whose speaker implores, "Brothers, men who live afer us, / Let not your hearts be hardened against us" and asks "let no one laugh at our misfortune" when the title group's bones "have become cinder and powder."
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Villon):
    This French poet and criminal wrote "Ballad of the Hanged Men" andincludedtheline "where are the snows of yesteryear?" in his collection Le Testament.
  Part 3 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    Villon's immortal line "where are the snows of yesteryear?" derives from this Pre-Raphaelite poet's English translation of "The Ballad of Dead Ladies". His own poems include "Beata Beatrix".

[B12] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was arrested after killing the priest Philippe Sarmoise. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Villon [or Francois de Montcorbier; or Francois des Loges]):
    Name this 15th century French poet, whose "Ballad of the Hanged Ladies" includes the line "Where are the snows of yesteryear?"
  Part 2 (ans: The Great Testament [or Le Grand Testament]):
    "The Ballad of the Hanged Ladies" appears in this long poem by Villon. Based on the earlier poem The Legacy, this highly digressive poem is presented as the work of an old, dying man reflecting on his misspent youth.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles d'Orleans):
    This contemporary of Villon wrote poems such as "While Looking Towards the Country of France" about his exile in England. This nobleman was imprisoned for twenty-five years after being captured at the Battle of Agincourt.
