=== STOCK CLUES: Truffaut ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 24 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cinematheque francaise ("see-nay-mah-TEK frawn-SEZ") (You've Got Beautiful Stairs, You Know... was directed by Agnes Varda. Stolen Kisses was directed by Francois Truffaut, who was involved in the protests against Langlois's firing.)
  - The short film You've Got Beautiful Stairs, You Know... honors this organization's 50th anniversary.
  - A pan to a sign reading "closed" hanging on the locked gates outside this organization opens the film Stolen Kisses.
  - Wim Wenders dedicated Paris, Texas to a mentor who co-founded this organization, Holocaust survivor Lotte Eisner.
  - This organization has a logo inspired by the Hollywood sign. [PWR]
  - An American exchange student meets two incestuous siblings at a protest involving this organization in Gilbert Adair's novel The Holy Innocents, which Bernardo Bertolucci adapted as The Dreamers. [PWR]
  - Since 2007, Costa-Gavras has been the (*) president of this organization co-founded by the director of Eyes Without a Face. [PWR]
  - In 1968, directors across the world protested Minister of Culture Andre Malraux's  attempted sacking of this organization's director Henri Langlois .
  - For 10 points, name this French organization dedicated to film preservation. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Untitled Film Set (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Francois Truffaut ("frawn-swah troo-FOH") [or Francois Roland Truffaut] (After reading a quote from Hitchcock saying that he'd never dare to touch Crime and Punishment because it was too difficult, Kaurismaki thought "I'll show you, old man," but ended up realizing it was indeed too difficult: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qu27Ct5G_28)
  - After reading a book by this critic, Aki Kaurismaki  decided to adapt Crime and Punishment as his debut film. [PWR]
  - Former spy Helen Grace Scott assisted this critic with a book he rage-wrote after someone told him that he only thought highly of a certain film because he had never been to Greenwich Village. [PWR]
  - The careers of a duo of directors known by the portmanteau Aurenchebost  were killed by this critic's ruthless essay examining a "certain tendency" of a film industry. [PWR]
  - In his elaboration of a concept introduced by this critic, Andrew (*) Sarris used an indirect English translation of the word "politique." A 1967 book by this critic breaks down editing techniques via stills from films like Sabotage and Shadow of a Doubt. [PWR]
  - This critic was the first to use the word "auteur" in a film theoretic sense.
  - For 10 points, name this Cahiers du cinema  critic who published a book-length interview with Alfred Hitchcock four years after directing Jules and Jim. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Francois Truffaut
  - This actor played a man who lights candles for his deceased friends in a burned-out chapel in a film inspired by Henry James's story "The Altar of the Dead." In an uncredited role, this actor appears as a man who rides a centrifuge in a funfair. [PWR]
  - A scientist portrayed by this actor uses hand signs to convey the notes (*) D, E, C, C, G to an extraterrestrial in Close Encounters of the Third Kind. [PWR]
  - This man starred in and directed The Green Room.
  - For 10 points, what director had a cameo in his own film The 400 Blows? [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Francois Truffaut
  - In one of this director's films, a character sings "La Marseillaise" to disprove that he has an accent, which fades into a montage of footage of the outbreak of World War I.
  - One of this director's female characters feels excluded by her companions' discussion of Strindberg and jumps into a river.
  - In one of this director's films, a candle from a shrine to Balzac starts a fire in a cupboard, and the protagonist is later accused by Sourpuss of plagiarizing an essay.
  - The title characters of one of his films are Austrian and French writers who fall in love with the temperamental Catherine.
  - Another protagonist is sent to an observation center for juvenile delinquents after stealing a typewriter in his first film about Antoine Doinel.
  - For 10 points, name this French New Wave director of Jules et Jim and The 400 Blows. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A story by this author loosely inspired a 2023 Bertrand Bonello film in which an AI has Lea Seydoux's character revisit past lives as a pianist in the 1910s and as the target of a violent incel in the 2010s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry James (Bonello's film is The Beast, based on The Beast in the Jungle. The last film is Portrait of a Lady on Fire.)):
    William Wyler adapted a novel by what author as The Heiress? A woman cries in close-up at a Vivaldi concert at the end of a film whose standard English title alludes to one of this author's novels.
  Part 2 (ans: Jane Campion (The latter film is The Power of the Dog.)):
    This director made a 1996 adaptation of James's Portrait of a Lady. This director depicted John Keats in the film Bright Star and, in 2021, adapted a Thomas Savage novel featuring the harsh, closeted rancher Phil Burbank.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Truffaut):
    This director merged several of James's stories into his 1978 film The Green Room. This French New Wave pioneer directed Jules et Jim and The 400 Blows.

[B2] 2022 ACF Fall (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In her essay "Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema," Laura Mulvey holds that this film's protagonist explicitly represents the voyeuristic gaze of the audience. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rear Window):
    Name this film in which James Stewart plays a photojournalist who rebreaks his legs after falling out of his apartment at the end.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Hitchcock [or Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock]):
    Rear Window is one of many classic films directed by this English-American "Master of Suspense," whose other early thrillers include Rope, Marnie, and Vertigo.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Truffaut [or Francois Roland Truffaut; accept Hitchcock/Truffaut]):
    Similar to Mulvey, this director claimed that "the binoculars stand for the camera" in his review of Rear Window. This director published a book of his interviews with Hitchcock in which they discussed his own film Jules and Jim.

[B3] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: Though it's not the New York Herald, Michel is offered a copy of this magazine in the street towards the beginning of Jean-Luc Godard's Breathless. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cahiers du cinema [ka-YAY doo cinema]):
    Name this longest-continuously-published French film magazine founded by Andre Bazin, in which members of the New Wave developed their theory of the auteur.
  Part 2 (ans: The 400 Blows [or Les Quatre Cents Coups]):
    This semi-autobiographical film is dedicated to Bazin's memory and follows Antoine Doinel as he rebels at school and eventually runs away to the sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Truffaut):
    This director of The 400 Blows became known as 'The Gravedigger of French Cinema' thanks to the brutal reviews they wrote for Cahiers. Other films by this director include Shoot the Pianist and The Last Metro.

[B4] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about French films featuring fire, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Celine Sciamma):
    Name this director of Portrait of a Lady on Fire, in which Marianne is inspired to paint the title work as a group of women clap and sing the lyrics "fugere non possum" around a bonfire.
  Part 2 (ans: The Wages of Fear [or La Salaire de Peur]):
    Images of oil fields on fire end this 1953 Henri-Georges Clouzot thriller. In this film, Yves ("eev") Montand plays a driver who is hired to transport nitroglycerine across dangerous South American terrain for an oil company.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Truffaut):
    Firemen set books ablaze in this French New Wave director's adaptation of Fahrenheit 451. He also directed Jules and Jim and The 400 Blows.

[B5] 2018 British Novice (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: As a critic, this director was called 'the gravedigger of [his nation's] cinema', and worked with his mentor Andre Bazin to create the 'auteur theory'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Truffaut):
    Name this director of Jules and Jim, who introduced the character Antoine Doinel in his best-known film.
  Part 2 (ans: France):
    Truffaut was a member of this nation's New Wave movement, which also included Jean-Luc Godard.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean or Pierre-Auguste Renoir):
    Truffaut was much inspired by The Rules of the Game, a film by an earlier French director of this surname. He was the son of an impressionist painter with this surname who painted The Luncheon of the Boating Party.

[B6] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this film, which was inspired by the novel The Invention of Morel, Giorgio Albertazzi's character continuously loses the game of nim, which is played by removing cards, matches or photographs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Last Year at Marienbad [or Last Year in Marienbad or L'Annee derniere a Marienbad] ):
    Name this film directed by Alain Resnais in which a man repeatedly tries to convince a woman that they had met at the title Czech spa town one year previously.
  Part 2 (ans: France [or the French Republic]):
    Last Year at Marienbad is set in a hotel in this country. This country's "New Wave" movement includes the films Breathless and Jules and Jim.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Roland Truffaut):
    This French New Wave director was responsible for The 400 Blows. His adaptation of Fahrenheit 451 starred Oskar Werner, but much to the dismay of Ray Bradbury and the audience, it did not feature the mechanical hound.

[B7] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Akira Kurosawa and Alfred Hitchcock are often admired by proponents of this theory. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Auteur theory):
    Name this philosophy which holds that a film is primarily the product of its director's creative vision.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Truffaut):
    This film critic was an early proponent of auteur theory. He later became an auteur himself, directing films including The 400 Blows and Fahrenheit 451, his only English-language feature.
  Part 3 (ans: Cahiers du cinema):
    Francois Truffaut advanced auteur theory via his writings in this influential French film journal, many of whose contributors were leading lights in the French New Wave scene.

[B8] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a 1990 docufiction film with this title, the director explains his use of this technique before filming Hossein Sabzian's confession for impersonating a famous director. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: close-up shot [or Close-Up; or Kluzap]):
    Name this type of cinematic shot that depicts an object from a near distance; it may be "extreme" if it frames only a single feature of the subject's body.
  Part 2 (ans: Abbas Kiarostami):
    This director of a film titled Close-Up also created Badii, who offers people money to bury him after his suicide, in the film Taste of Cherry.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois Truffaut):
    This director also created a film titled for a film technique, Day for Night. He's better known for depicting the struggles of Antoine Doinel in The 400 Blows.

[B9] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This theory was developed in Andre Bazin's monthly magazine Cahiers du Cinema. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: auteur theory [or politique des auteurs]):
    Name this theory of film which argues that the director, and not the actors or the studio, is the true artistic source behind a movie.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Truffaut [or Francois Roland Truffaut]):
    In "A Certain Tendency in French Cinema," this director of Shoot the Piano Player and Stolen Kisses advanced auteur theory by arguing against the idea that a director merely adds to a pre-existing literary scenario.
  Part 3 (ans: The Green Room [or La Chambre verte]):
    Henry James' "The Altar of the Dead" inspired this personal film of Francois Truffault, which is an homage to Andre Bazin. It focuses on Julien Davenne, who obsesses on a shrine to his dead wife.

[B10] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: The opening of this film shows the intertwined bodies of two lovers, covered with glittering ash. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hiroshima, mon amour [or Hiroshima, my love]):
    Identify this film in which an unnamed French actress has a one-night-stand with a Japanese architect, who reminds her of an earlier love affair she had in Nevers.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Truffaut):
    Hiroshima, mon amour by Alain Resnais is considered one of the first films of the French new wave, along with this director's The 400 Blows.
  Part 3 (ans: Michael Haneke):
    Emmanuelle Riva, who played the actress in Hiroshima, mon amour, recently returned to the spotlight as Anne in Amour, which was directed by this Austrian creator of The White Ribbon.
