=== STOCK CLUES: Puccini ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 27 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giacomo Puccini
  - While reminiscing about a past love affair, a character in an opera by this composer writes her name on a tablecloth, after which Ruggero writes his own underneath. [PWR]
  - Magda, who is given the title moniker by Prunier in an opera by this composer, sings "Chi bel suono di Doretta." This composer wrote an opera in which a tenor sings "Ch'ella () mi creda" before being executed by a mob. [PWR]
  - Guelfo Civinini and Carlo Zangarini wrote the libretto to an opera by this composer of (*) La Rondine in which Jack Rance releases the bandit Dick Johnson, who falls in love with Minnie. [PWR]
  - Colline sells his favorite coat in the aria "Vecchia Zimarra" in an opera by this composer, in which a poet reveals his life story in "Che gelida manina." For 10 points, name this composer of The Girl of the Golden West, who depicted Mimi dying in Rodolfo's arms in La boheme. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giacomo Puccini
  - A 2017 opera with a name inspired by an earlier opera by this composer draws on the letters of Louise Clappe and the newspaper articles of Mark Twain and is the most recent opera by John Adams.
  - After writing the song "Avalon," Al Jolson was sued by this composer's publisher, who claimed that the song plagiarized a B minor tenor aria by this composer that opens with a clarinet solo.
  - An opera by this composer includes a tenor aria, "Ch'ella mi creda," sung by the bandit Dick Johnson, who asks a crowd not to mention his fate to Minnie.
  - The aria "E lucevan le stelle"  is sung by Caravadossi to the title diva of another opera by this composer, who herself sings "Vissi d'arte" while being manipulated by Baron Scarpia.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of The Girl of the Golden West and Tosca. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini
  - One opera by this man ends with Michele revealing the murdered body of Luigi hidden beneath his cloak.
  - In another work, Buoso's relatives scheme to get their hands on his mule, house, and mill, and that work is part of Il Trittico along with Il tabarro.
  - One of this man's characters, the mistress of Alcindoro, sings "Quando me'n vo'" to win back the affections of Marcello, and that song is known as Musetta's waltz.
  - Rodolfo sings "O soave fanciulla" and "Che gelida manina" about the seamstress Mimi in an opera by this man, who also wrote the aria "O mio babbino caro." For 10 points, name this Italian composer of Gianni Schicchi and La boheme. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giacomo Puccini
  - In one of this composer's operas, the central couple echo the song of a passing lamplighter in "E Kate ripose al re".
  - The male protagonist of that opera by this composer reflects on hearing his beloved's name for the first time in "Donna, non vidi mai".
  - The title character of that opera by this composer is sent to Louisiana, where she is overcome by despair in the aria "Sola, perduta, abbandonata!" and dies in Des Grieux's arms.
  - In another opera by this composer, the protagonist kills the head of the secret police, Baron Scarpia, who wrote a safe conduct letter for her and her lover Mario Cavaradossi after she sang "Vissi d'arte".
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Manon Lescaut and Tosca. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Tremolo strings accompany the title character of this aria's opera singing "Niente!" immediately before this aria begins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "O mio babbino caro" [accept "O my dear father"]):
    Name this aria whose title phrase is sung on the notes [read slowly] A-flat, A-flat, A-flat, long C, G, long F, long E-flat and accompanied by harp arpeggios. This aria's singer threatens to throw herself into the Arno if she cannot marry Rinuccio.
  Part 2 (ans: Gianni Schicchi ("SKI-key")):
    "O mio babbino caro" is the most famous aria from this comic opera which premiered as part of its composer's Il trittico alongside Il tabarro and Suor Angelica. This opera's libretto is based on an incident mentioned in the Divine Comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    Gianni Schicchi was composed by this Italian composer of La boheme, Tosca, and Madame Butterfly.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A soprano traveling on the steamboat El Dorado transforms into one of these animals at the end of a 1996 opera in which the journalist Rosalba repeatedly loses her notebook. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: butterfly [accept Madama Butterfly or Cio-Cio San]):
    An operatic character named after what sort of animal stabs herself after singing the aria "Con onor muore"? The soprano aria "Un bel di, vedremo" appears in that Puccini opera, whose title character is named for this animal.
  Part 2 (ans: Florencia [or Florencia en el Amazonas; accept Florencia in the Amazon]):
    In a magical realist opera by Daniel Catan, this soprano transforms into a butterfly to reunite with her lover Cristobal. This character titles that opera, which was the first in Spanish to be commissioned by an American company.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Star-Spangled Banner" [accept "To Anacreon in Heaven" or "The Anacreontic Song"; prompt on American national anthem or national anthem of the US] (The song was not yet the US's national anthem at the time Puccini composed the opera.)):
    On several occasions, Puccini's score for Madama Butterfly represents Cio-Cio San's husband with a motif based on this song.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Guido Reni's Saint Michael the Archangel Defeats Satan appears at the entrance to a church dedicated to this subject, which features a crypt with ornamental art crafted from the bones of Capuchin monks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Immaculate Conception [accept Santa Maria della Concezione dei Cappuccini]):
    Name this scene. Bartolome Murillo ("moo-REE-yoh") painted many "vaporous" depictions of this scene, including one in which the central figure stands on a crescent moon while surrounded by tons of cherubs.
  Part 2 (ans: Barberini [accept Allegory of Divine Providence and Barberini Power; accept Palazzo Barberini; accept Barberini Faun]):
    Reni's Saint Michael was commissioned by this family. A Pietro da Cortona fresco in this family's Palazzo references the three bees on their coat of arms, and they name a statue of a faun with splayed legs leaning back.
  Part 3 (ans: cards [accept gambling] (The unnamed painting is The Cardsharps)):
    Late in his career, Reni began producing rushed works to compensate for his addiction to this activity. Two men, one of whom reaches behind his back into his belt, cheat a third man at this activity in a Caravaggio ("care-uh-VAH-joh") painting.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: As he was dying of throat cancer, the composer of this opera approached Arturo Toscanini and begged him "don't let [this opera] die!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Turandot):
    Name this opera. Toscanini later conducted the premiere of this opera in which Calaf correctly answers three riddles to win the hand of the title princess.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    In addition to Turandot, Toscanini premiered other operas by this composer like La Fanciulla del West and La Boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: Otello (by Giuseppe Verdi)):
    Before he ever conducted his first opera premiere, Arturo Toscanini played in the cello section at the world premiere of this opera. This opera set in Cyprus was the second collaboration between its composer and librettist Arrigo Boito.

[B5] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera's title character sings "Chi bel suono di Doretta" while another character mimes, or sometimes plays, the piano accompaniment. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Rondine [or The Swallow]):
    Name this opera in which the poet Prunier bestows the title name upon Magda, a former courtesan who refuses to marry Ruggero.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini [or Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini]):
    La Rondine is a late work by this composer, whose earlier operas include La boheme and Tosca.
  Part 3 (ans: Franz Lehar [or Lehar Ferenc]):
    Puccini's publisher, Ricordi, dismissed La Rondine as a mockery of this Viennese composer. The commission for La Rondine was spurred by the success of this composer's operettas.

[B6] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the "Octopus" aria, this opera's title character recounts seeing an erotic image with the same subject as Hokusai's Dream of the Fisherman's Wife in a temple during her childhood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iris):
    Name this Pietro Mascagni ("ma-SCAHN-yee") opera set in Japan, which features the celebrated tenor serenade "Apri la tua finestra" and begins with an offstage choir performing a "Hymn to the Sun."
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo (Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria) Puccini):
    Like Iris, this other Italian composer set his opera Madama Butterfly in Japan. His opera La Boheme was premiered with Arturo Toscanini as conductor.
  Part 3 (ans: humming [accept answers describing singing with closed mouth or through the nose]):
    Madama Butterfly features a notable chorus using this atypical vocal technique. Heitor Villa-Lobos instructs the soprano to use this technique in part of Bachianas Brasileiras no. 5.

[B7] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the African-American soprano Angel Blue, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Fire Shut Up in My Bones):
    In 2021, Blue performed in this opera as three "internal voices" in the mind of its protagonist Charles. This second opera by jazz trumpeter Terence Blanchard was the first by a Black composer to be performed at the Met.
  Part 2 (ans: Aida):
    In July 2022, Blue pulled out of a performance at the Verona Arena after condemning Russian soprano Anna Netrebko's blackface makeup to play the title Ethiopian princess of this Giuseppe Verdi opera at the venue.
  Part 3 (ans: Mimi [accept "Si, mi chiamano Mimi"] (She appears in La Boheme by Giacomo Puccini.)):
    Blue's Met debut was as this seamstress, who sings the aria "Si, mi chiamano" ("see, mee k'YAH-mah-noh") to introduce herself to Rodolfo, a poet who had sung "Che gelida manina" ("kay JEH-lee-dah mah-NEE-nah") to her after hiding her key.

[B8] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera was controversially referred to as a "shabby little shocker" by musicologist Joseph Kerman in his 1956 book Opera as Drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tosca):
    Name this opera. After Kerman's scathing remarks, the conductor Thomas Beecham responded by saying that anything Kerman says about this opera's composer "can safely be ignored."
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini [or Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini]):
    Tosca is an opera by this composer. The Jonathan Larson musical Rent is based on his opera La boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: Enrico Caruso):
    Puccini considered casting this young operatic tenor as Cavaradossi for the premiere of Tosca, but selected the older Emilio De Marchi instead, which he later regretted. This Italian tenor sold over a million copies of his recordings of "Vesti la giubba" ("VESS-tee la JOOB-bah") from Pagliacci ("pahl-YAH-chee").

[B9] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A countess recalls her Parisian childhood in this opera's aria "I dare not speak to him at night" before she dies as its obsessive protagonist threatens her for a secret about a group of crucial objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Queen of Spades [or Pique Dame]):
    Name this Tchaikovsky opera. A descending B-minor leitmotif represents those three objects sought by Hermann, who declares, "Life is but a game," before overturning this opera's namesake.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    In an opera by this composer, Minnie challenges Rance to "una partita a poker" to save her lover's life. In addition to that opera, The Girl of the Golden West, this verismo composer wrote Turandot and Madama Butterfly.
  Part 3 (ans: Renee Fleming [or Renee Lynn Fleming]):
    Andre Previn contrasts Stanley's poker game with a waltz theme in his rendition of A Streetcar Named Desire, in which this lyric soprano originated the role of Blanche. This singer's signature roles include the title character of Rusalka and the Marschallin in Der Rosenkavalier.

[B10] 2021 ACF Nationals Qualifier (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Upon hearing Enrico Caruso sing this aria, its composer supposedly said "Who sent you to me-God?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Che gelida manina" ("kay JEH-lee-dah mah-NEE-nah")):
    Give the original Italian name of this tenor aria sung by Rodolfo in an 1896 opera, in which he describes his life as a poet. The character Mimi responds to it by singing "Si, mi chiamano Mimi."
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini [or Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini]):
    Those arias appear in La boheme, by this composer of Madama Butterfly.
  Part 3 (ans: La fanciulla del West ("lah fahn-CHOO-lah dell west") [or The Girl of the Golden West or The Girl of the West]):
    Another famed Puccini tenor aria is "Ch'ella mi creda" ("KELL-ah mee KRAY-dah"), which is sung by Dick Johnson (also known as the bandit Ramerrez) in this Puccini opera set during the California Gold Rush.

[B11] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One character joyfully exclaims "Ecco un artista!" shortly after this event, before learning that her trust had been betrayed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Cavaradossi's execution by firing squad [accept Mario or Cavaradossi and accept reasonable synonyms like "death/murder/assasination" in place of "execution"; prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this operatic event that Spoletta claims to arrange "as we did with Count Palmieri". This event's aftermath prompts one character to cry "O Scarpia, we meet before God!" before throwing herself from a parapet.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    Cavaradossi's execution by firing squad and the title character's subsequent suicide both occur in Tosca, an opera by this Italian composer of La Boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: "Vissi d'arte" or "I lived for art"):
    The original plan for Scarpia to arrange a mock execution for Mario in exchange for Tosca's hand in marriage occurs shortly after Tosca sings this penitent aria in Act 2, which asks "In this hour of grief... why, Lord, do you reward me thus?".

[B12] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This vocal number begins with the cellos playing the pizzicato notes F, A, B-flat, to which the flutes and high strings respond with a staccato arpeggiated B-flat major pattern. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: humming chorus from Madama Butterfly):
    Name this number accompanied by a solo viola d'amore that bridges the second and third act of a certain opera.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    The humming chorus is from Madama Butterfly, an opera by this composer, whose other opera Gianni Schicchi includes the aria "O mio babbino caro."
  Part 3 (ans: the Star Spangled Banner, [prompt on anything mentioning the national anthem of the USA]):
    Motifs from this melody often accompany the appearance of Lieutenant Pinkerton throughout Madama Butterfly, including his grand appearance in the aria "Dovunque al Mondo."

[B13] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the end of this opera, an ensemble sings the "Salve Regina," and the number of singers gets reduced each time a character dies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dialogues des Carmelites [or Dialogues of the Carmelites] (by Francis Poulenc)):
    Name this opera in which Blanche de la Forge is forced to choose between her life and her religious oath. She chooses the latter after seeing her colleague Sister Constance walk to her death.
  Part 2 (ans: Jules Massenet):
    The title courtesan joins a convent and is praised as a saint by the nuns in this composer's opera Thais ("ty-eese"), which includes an oft-excerpted "Meditation" for violin and orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    The title nun secretly had an illegitimate child in this composer's opera Suor Angelica, which forms the middle third of the collection Il trittico. He also composed Madama Butterfly.

[B14] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera originated as a Viennese-style operetta, leading to its rejection by a publisher as "bad Lehar." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Rondine (by Giacomo Puccini)):
    Name this opera that's almost exclusively remembered for the aria "Che il bel sogno" [keel bell SOH-nyoh] from its opening party scene.
  Part 2 (ans: pianoforte):
    "Che il bel sogno" begins with a solo by this instrument, which also accompanies the opening of "Großmachtige Prinzessin" [grohss-MEKH-tih-guh PRIN-tzeh-sin] from Ariadne auf Naxos. This instrument is played by a repetiteur.
  Part 3 (ans: diatonic modes):
    The opening of "Che il bel sogno" prominently features the Lydian example of these pitch collections, one set of which can be created by starting a diatonic scale in the middle and ending on the same note.

[B15] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This slow aria begins with the quarter notes E-flat, D-flat, B-flat, A-flat, and is then repeated with a small flourish before the singer says she had never "harmed a living soul." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vissi d'arte):
    Name this soprano aria in which the singer contemplates her fate after Scarpia tells her the only way she can be with her lover is if she sleeps with Scarpia.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    Vissi d'arte is sung by the title character from one of this composer's operas. Other famous arias by this composer include "O Mio Babbino Caro" and "Nessun Dorma."
  Part 3 (ans: E lucevan le stelle):
    The clarinet introduces this tenor aria from act 3 of Tosca, where Cavaradossi is unable to hold in his emotions as he attempts to write Tosca a letter. That clarinet introduction of this aria is later played in a passage marked triple-forte by the brass as Tosca commits suicide.

[B16] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: The work in which this character appears was first premiered at the Met in December 1910, and she was played at that performance by the Czech soprano Emmy Destinn. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Minnie [accept "The Girl of the Golden West" or "La fanciulla del West"; prompt on "la fanciulla"]):
    Name this saloon-owner who is courted by the sheriff Rance and the miner Sonora before ultimately falling for the bandit Dick Johnson. The opera in which she appears was inspired by its composer's viewing a similarly-titled play by David Belasco.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    Minnie appears in this Italian composer's The Girl of the Golden West. Despite the success of that work's New York premiere, he is probably still better-known for works like La Boheme and Madame Butterfly.
  Part 3 (ans: "Nessun dorma"):
    In Puccini's Turandot, prince Calaf sings this aria in Act 3, by far the opera's most well-known, which states that "nobody shall sleep" until he discovers the title character's name.

[B17] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Berlioz suggested that Mozart plagiarized some of the Commendatore's music in Don Giovanni from this opera, in which the title character sings "Divinites du Styx." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alceste [grudgingly accept Alcestis]):
    Name this 1767 opera. It was the second "reform opera" its composer wrote with Ranieri de' Calzabigi, after Orfeo de Euridice, and was written before his French-language operas about Iphigenia.
  Part 2 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck):
    This 18th-century German composer wrote the music for Alceste and Orfeo ed Euridice, the latter of which contains his most famous aria, "Che faro senza Euridice."
  Part 3 (ans: Niccolo Piccinni [in a rare exception to the vowel rule, do NOT accept or prompt on "Puccini," as that's a different composer!]):
    In the 1770's-80's, Parisian operagoers were divided between "Gluckists" and fans of this Neapolitan composer of La Cecchina, a favorite of Marie Antoinette. The Paris Opera commissioned him and Gluck to write rival settings of Iphigenie en Tauride.

[B18] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character becomes jealous after noticing that the eyes in her lover's painting of Mary Magdalene are modeled on those of the Marchesa Attavanti. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Floria Tosca [accept either]):
    Name this opera character who leaps off of a wall after finding out that Cavaradossi is dead and that Baron Scarpia has betrayed her.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo (Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria) Puccini):
    Tosca is by this Italian composer, whose other operas includes Madama Butterfly.
  Part 3 (ans: "Recondita Armonia"):
    This is the aria that Cavaradossi sings while discussing combining Tosca's dark hair and Attavanti's blue eyes in the features of his painting of Mary Magdalene.

[B19] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The male lead of this opera writes his name on a tablecloth below the name of his lover, who is given the title moniker by the poet Prunier during a palm reading. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La rondine [or The Swallow]):
    Name this incomplete opera in which Magda breaks off her relationship with Ruggero because she is too much of a free spirit, represented by the title creature.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini [or Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini]):
    This Italian composer died before settling on the true ending to his opera La rondine, and before completing his Turandot at all.
  Part 3 (ans: "Musetta's Waltz" [or "Quando men vo"]):
    A woman from another Puccini opera pretends that her shoe is too tight and sends off Alcindoro to the shoemaker immediately after singing this aria, in which she states that everyone stares at her beauty when she walks down the street.

[B20] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title character of this opera falls in love with Giuseppe Hagenbach, the enemy of her father Stromminger. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Wally):
    Identify this favorite opera of Arturo Toscanini, which climaxes with an avalanche which kills Hagenbach, driving the title character to take her life.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    The libretto for Catalani's La Wally was written by Luigi Illica, who also penned the libretto to this composer's opera Manon Lescaut. You may know him better for his opera Gianni Schicchi.
  Part 3 (ans: "Ebben? Ne andro lontana" [or "Well then? I'll go far away"]):
    Near the end of the first act, Wally sings this famous aria after she decides to leave her home rather than marry a man she does not love. She follows it up by departing for the mountains.

[B21] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sibyl Sanderson made her professional debut playing the title Byzantine sorceress in this composer's opera Esclarmonde. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jules Massenet):
    Name this composer, who also composed an opera featuring "En fermant les yeux," known as the "Dream Song," and the soprano aria "Adieu, notre petite table."
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    Massenet's Manon was based on the same novel that inspired this composer's 1893 opera Manon Lescaut. This composer also wrote an opera featuring the aria "Un bel di."
  Part 3 (ans: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]):
    "Un bel di" appears in this Puccini opera, in which it is sung by the title character Cio-Cio San, who is tragically married to the American Navy Lieutenant Pinkerton.

[B22] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, Minnie cheats against a sheriff in a poker game in order to win the life of her lover. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Girl of the Golden West [or La fanciulla del West]):
    Name this opera, in which Minnie is courted by Rance and Sonora, but falls in love with Dick Johnson, who is actually the bandit Ramirez. This opera was criticized by some for its faux-American tone.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    The Girl of the Golden West was composed by this Italian, whose other operas include one about poor students living in the Students' Quarter of Paris, called La Boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: La Rondine [or The Swallow]):
    Puccini also wrote this opera about the courtesan Magda, who disguises herself as the working girl Pauletta in order to win the love of Ruggero but eventually leaves him because she fears that her past would hurt his family.

[B23] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character sings the aria "E lucevan le stelle" while standing atop the Castel Sant'Angelo, waiting to be executed by Scarpia's men. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Cavaradossi [accept either]):
    Name this painter, played by a tenor. He abets the convict Cesare Angelotti after comparing his painting of Mary Magdalene to his lover in the aria "Recondita armonia".
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    Mario Cavaradossi appears in Tosca, an opera by this Italian verismo composer of Madama Butterfly.
  Part 3 (ans: Te Deum):
    The first act of Tosca ends with Scarpia profanely joining the chorus as they sing this hymn. A motet setting this prayer is the most famous work of Marc-Antoine Charpentier.

[B24] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer had a collaborative friendship with Arturo Toscanini, who conducted the premiere of his opera, La Boheme. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giacomo (Antonio Demonico Michele Secondo Maria) Puccini):
    Name this Italian verismo composer whose Il trittico consists of the operas Il tabarro, Suor Angelica, and Gianni Schicchi.
  Part 2 (ans: "O mio babbino caro" [or "Oh my beloved father"]):
    In this famous aria from Gianni Schicchi, Lauretta threatens to throw herself into the Arno river if her father will not consent to her marriage with Rinuccio.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Illica):
    This playwright, who wrote the libretto for Giordano's Andrea Chenier, collaborated with Giuseppe Giacosa in writing the libretti for most of Puccini's greatest hits, including La Boheme, Tosca, and Madama Butterfly.

[B25] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character sings the aria "One Beautiful Day," in which she foretells the coming of a ship, and she later asks another character about her beloved's behavior with the analogy of a nesting robin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Madame Butterfly [or Ciocio-san]):
    Name this character who begins a love duet with the words "Love me, please" and cannot be persuaded by the marriage broker Goro to give up her first love.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    This Italian composer wrote the music for Madame Butterfly, along with Tosca and La Boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: Sharpless):
    In Madame Butterfly, this is the character whom Butterfly asks about robins' nesting behaviors in America. He is an American consul who accompanies Pinkerton to Butterfly's house in the third act.
