=== STOCK CLUES: Ivan Turgenev ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 52 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev
  - In a novel by this author, a father disappointed by failing to receive an inheritance from his rich aunt compensates by training his kilt-wearing son based on Rousseau's physical theories and mentally indoctrinating him with Voltaire. [PWR]
  - Later in that novel by this author, that son dismantles the arguments of a romantic rival who praises the manufacturing prowess of the British, the art of the French, and the philosophy of the Germans all while trashing his home country. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, the thought of Alexander Herzen is satirized via the liberal character Gubaryov, who is encountered among a group of intellectuals at a spa in Baden-Baden. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, the widow (*) Marya tries to impress the Moscow official and poet Panshin with the piano playing of her daughter, whose name, Liza, sometimes titles translations of that novel. [PWR]
  - The unfaithful urban wife Varvara is contrasted with the title provincial group in a novel by this author focused on Lavretsky.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of Smoke and Home of the Gentry, who also created the nihilist medical student Bazarov. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]
  - In one of this author's stories, a ghostly apparition inspires the narrator to buy "Little Tresor," who later saves him from a rabid animal.
  - In another story by this author, a deaf-mute porter is obliged to drown his dog in the same river where he originally rescued her. [PWR]
  - This author of "The Dog" and "Mumu" also wrote about the muscular Harlov, who is mistreated by his daughters, in a story inspired by (*) Shakespeare.
  - This author created the foppish Pavel, who is shot in a duel by a youth he sees kissing the student Fenichka.
  - In a novel by this author of "A King Lear of the Steppes," a young doctor cuts himself on his own scalpel soon after hearing of the marriage plans of Arkady Kirsanov.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author who created the nihilist Bazarov in Fathers and Sons. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]
  - One of this author's characters realizes the extent of his friend's vanity when that friend states that idiots are necessary to him because "The gods ought not to have to bake pots." This author wrote three libretti for the singer Pauline Viardot [vee-ahr-DOH], with whom he spent several years in Paris living in a menage a trois.
  - One of this author's characters immediately begins binding and cleaning an older man's leg after (*) shooting him in a duel.
  - A novel by this author, which is presented as the diary of the dying aristocrat Tchulkaturin [chool-kah-TUR-een], popularized the term "superfluous man." This author inspired public debates over nihilism with a novel in which Arkady brings home the radical medical student Bazarov [BAH-zur-ohv].
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of Fathers and Sons. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]
  - A businesswoman created by this author seductively addresses the protagonist as "Aeneas" as they take shelter from a storm while riding horses in the woods.
  - In a novella by this author, the narrator hopes that he is the "man by the fountain" in a parable told by his love interest, from whom he wins a kiss in a game of forfeits against a doctor, a hussar, and a poet.
  - The jealous narrator of that novella by this author takes a knife to a garden, only to discover his father is his rival for a woman who calls him "Woldemar." A novella by this author in which the confectioner's daughter Gemma enthralls Sanin in Frankfurt was partly inspired by this author's love for Pauline Viardot.
  - In a novella by this author, the teenager Vladimir falls for Princess Zinaida.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of Spring Torrents and First Love. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]
  - In a story by this author, the Gabbler and Blinkard become emotional while a man nicknamed "the Turk" wins a singing contest.
  - An essay by this author contrasts an "archetype of self-sacrifice" with a "skeptic" who "cannot love anyone" while arguing that two characters form "poles of the human axis." In a story by this author, Vasily Vasilych sticks his tongue out at his reflection before comparing himself to a Shakespeare character.
  - This author of "Hamlet and Don Quixote" depicted a party held by Alexander G. in the story "Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District." In a novel by this author, Arkady Kirsanov stays at his father's estate Marino with his friend, the nihilist Bazarov.
  - For 10 points, what Russian author wrote the collection A Sportsman's Sketches and the novel Fathers and Sons? [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev ("turr-GEN-yeff")
  - This author's "complacent ambivalence" contrasts with his contemporaries' "primary colors" in an Isaiah Berlin essay, the last in a collection titled for a country's "Thinkers." In a novel, a heckler claims that a caricature of this man aimed for a crow and hit a cow, as that caricature of this man reads aloud a pretentious farewell poem titled "Merci"  at a gala.
  - A contemporary of this man mocked him as needing a telescope to see Russia, because he lived in Paris with mezzo-soprano Pauline Viardot .
  - This man is caricatured as the out-of-touch liberal poet Semyon Karmazinov in Demons by Dostoevsky, with whom he had a longstanding feud.
  - This author fictionalized Princess Catherine Shakhovskoy as Zinaida in his novella First Love.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author who depicted the conflict between the Kirsanovs and the nihilist Bazarov in Fathers and Sons. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev
  - In one story by this author, the narrator is told about peasants who were upset that their masters bought them scythes since they did not get to banter with the salesmen. [PWR]
  - In another story, the narrator meets Arina, who had been a housemaid for Alexandr Zvyerkoff, while visiting (+) Yermolai. [PWR]
  - In yet another work, the protagonist confronts a Prince during a dancing game of La Confidente, leading to a duel in which he shot the Prince non-fatally in the head but the Prince refused to (*) finish him. [PWR]
  - That work ends with the Prince leaving Liza, who then ignores the advances of Tchulkaturin.
  - One collection by this writer contains Hor and Kalinitch and sees the narrator meet Polutikin while hunting birds.
  - For ten points, name this Russian author of Diary of a Superfluous Man and Sportsman's Sketches. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]
  - In a play by this author, an aging bachelor delivers a lengthy rant about the emptiness and despair that awaits a philandering tutor with whom his lost love has become involved.
  - In an autobiographical short novel by this man, the narrator becomes infatuated with his neighbor, a girl who hits him on the head with flowers.
  - In that novel of his, the narrator's father is the secret lover of Zinaida.
  - A character created by this author of First Love duels with Pavel and dies after forgetting to cauterize a cut he suffers while treating a typhus patient.
  - In his best-known novel, the medical student Arkady Kirsanov brings home his friend, the nihilist Bazarov.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of A Month in the Country and Fathers and Sons. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev
  - One story by this author ends with the narrator hearing a boy repeatedly calling for "Antropka" after leaving a bar where he heard the beautiful singing of Yakov and Yasha. [PWR]
  - Another story by this author tells of a man named Radilov who only began to weep for the death of his wife when he saw a fly land on her eye. [PWR]
  - This author wrote of the landowner Polutikin controlling two contrasting (*) peasants in the first story of one collection, while in a novel by him the servant Fenichka bears a child for her master, Nikolai. [PWR]
  - This creator of the recurring character Yermolay included "Singers" and "Khor and Kalinych" in his collection A Sportsman's Sketches and wrote a novel about the nihilists Arkady Kirsanov and Yevgeny Bazarov.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of Fathers and Sons. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ivan Turgenev
  - This author wrote a story in which Alexandra feverishly declares love for her doctor, Trifon, rather than die without loving anyone.
  - This author of "Asya" lectured on the tension between solipsism and foolish altruism represented by "Hamlet and Don Quixote." In a novel by this writer, the protagonist shoots Pavel in the leg in a duel arising from a kiss he gave to Fenechka.
  - That medical student created by this author dies from a scalpel cut he neglects to disinfect.
  - A short story collection by this author containing "Khor and Khalinych" and "Bezhin Lea" contributed to the movement to abolish serfdom.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of A Sportsman's Sketches and Fathers and Sons. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Konstantin Stanislavski first deployed his acting system for a revival of a play by this author that starred Anton Chekhov's wife, Olga Knipper, as the unhappily married provincial woman Natalya Petrovna. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    What author of A Month in the Country gave a speech contrasting the archetypes of Hamlet and Don Quixote? This author also wrote On the Eve.
  Part 2 (ans: Uncle Vanya [or Dyadya Vanya]):
    Olga Knipper also premiered the character of Yelena, who is unhappily married to an older professor in this Chekhov play. This play's title estate manager fails to shoot his brother-in-law with a gun.
  Part 3 (ans: a thunderstorm [or a rainstorm; accept The Storm or Groza]):
    Vanya mopes to Yelena that one of these events "won't revive him" in Act II. Yet another unhappily married provincial woman jumps into the Volga during one of these events in an Alexander Ostrovsky drama.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ernest Hemingway's novel mocking Sherwood Anderson takes its title from a novel by this author in which Sanin recollects his love for the Italian sweetmaker Gemma Roselli. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    Name this author of the autobiographical novel Torrents of Spring. This author fictionalized his affair with his father's mistress in the novella First Love.
  Part 2 (ans: crosses [or crucifixes; accept cross necklaces; prompt on necklaces or chains]):
    Torrents of Spring begins as Sanin comes across one of these objects, prompting his memories of Gemma. In Crime and Punishment, Raskolnikov receives one of these objects from Sonya before going to confess his murders.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Quixote [or Don Quixote de la Mancha; or Alonso Quijano; or Alonso Quijano]):
    Turgenev's affair with the Spanish-French opera singer Pauline Viardot inspired his interest in this character, whom he compared to Hamlet in a famous essay. This chivalry-obsessed knight titles a Miguel de Cervantes novel.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem to Anatoly Marienhof ("mah-ree-yen-HOFF"), Sergei Esenin ("yeh-SEN-in") declared himself the "last poet" of these places by writing poems like "The Birch Tree." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: villages [accept Village Prose or The Village; accept derevnya]):
    Valentin Rasputin's Farewell to Matyora exemplifies a style of Thaw-era "Prose" evoking what places? Maxim Gorky praised a novel by Ivan Bunin in which Balashkin claims, "All Russia is nothing but" one of these places.
  Part 2 (ans: Jesus Christ [or Jesus Christ] ("Crucifixion" is the tenth section of "Requiem.")):
    Esenin's fellow "new peasant poet" Nikolai Klyuev ("KLEW-yeff") wrote poems imagining this person as homosexual. Alexander Blok's The Twelve ends on the image of this person, who consoles his mother in the tenth section of Anna Akhmatova's "Requiem."
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    The earlier peasant poet Nikolay Nekrasov aided in the abolition of serfdom as editor of The Contemporary by publishing this author's collection A Sportsman's Sketches.

[B4] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, Porfiry freezes to death on his mother's grave after neglecting his entire family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Saltykov-Shchedrin [accept either underlined portion; or Nikolai Shchedrin; or Mikhail Yevgrafovich Saltykov-Shchedrin; or Mikhail Yevgrafovich Saltykov]):
    Name this Russian author of the depressing novel The Golovlyov Family and the novel The History of a Town, which is set in Glupov, often translated as Foolsburg.
  Part 2 (ans: Knut Hamsun [or Knud Pedersen] (The other novel is Hunger. The Wood introduction is for the NYRB Classics edition of The Golovlyov Family.)):
    In his introduction to The Golovlyov Family, James Wood wrote that the "alienated actor" prototype runs from Dostoevsky, to Shchedrin, to this author. Wood cites this author's novel Mysteries and a novel whose protagonist pawns his clothes and meets the woman Ylajali ("EE-lah-YAH-lee").
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    When Shchedrin was upset at negative reviews, this author sent him a letter telling him he was "destined to make a deep mark on our literature." This author's own novels include First Love and Fathers and Sons.

[B5] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While staying at a hotel in this town, Grigory Litvinov tries to remember what woman could have given him a glass of heliotropes he discovers on his windowsill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Baden-Baden [or Baden; accept Summer in Baden-Baden]):
    Name this non-Russian setting of the novel Smoke. A novel titled for a Summer in this place, written by Soviet Jewish author Leonid Tsypkin, uses loads of run-on sentences to describe Dostoevsky's time spent gambling there.
  Part 2 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    The German spa town of Baden-Baden was where this author of Fathers and Sons set the present-day action of his novel Smoke.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexei [or Alyosha; or Alexei Ivanovich; or Alexei Karamazov; or Alyosha Karamazov]):
    The title Gambler of Dostoevsky's novel has this first name. A different Dostoevsky character with this first name, who works as a novice in a monastery, gets told a story about the Grand Inquisitor.

[B6] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, the Count of Gormas slaps Don Diegue because the latter got a job as a tutor instead of him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Cid [accept The Cid; reject "El Cid" since that is a Spanish epic poem]):
    Name this play by Pierre Corneille which was criticized by Cardinal Richelieu for breaking the three classical unities.
  Part 2 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    Another play revolving around tutors is this author's play A Month in the Country, which is about the handsome tutor Aleksei Belyaev. Soon after writing that play, this author switched to long fiction and wrote the novel Rudin.
  Part 3 (ans: Anton Chekhov [or Anton Pavlovich Chekhov]):
    Madame Ranevskaya painfully recalls the drowning of her son while talking with her son's former tutor Trofimov in this author's play The Cherry Orchard.

[B7] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A speech compares this character's egocentrism to the generosity of Don Quixote. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Prince Hamlet [accept "Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District" or "Hamlet of Shchigrovsky Province"]):
    Name this character created by a non-Russian author. In a story from A Sportsman's Sketches, a man tells the narrator to call him by this character's name after going on a long diatribe on the material greed of the upper class.
  Part 2 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    This Russian author gave the speech "Hamlet and Don Quixote" and wrote A Sportsman's Sketches and the novel Fathers and Sons.
  Part 3 (ans: superfluous man [or lishniy chelovek; accept Diary of a Superfluous Man]):
    Turgenev's reading of Hamlet also inspired the protagonist of his novel titled for this sort of person. Inspired by the Byronic hero, this two-word term denotes characters in Russian novels who defy social norms and expectations.

[B8] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A work comparing these two characters uses the analogy of a midge sucking Alexander the Great's blood to illustrate beings that believe they are the center of creation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hamlet and Don Quixote [answers may be given in either order, but do not accept or prompt if only one answer is given]):
    Name these two characters, one of whom "invents" and the other of whom "exploits what has been invented" according to an essay. That essay comparing these characters comments on how they were both created in the first decade of the 17th century.
  Part 2 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    That essay comparing "Hamlets" and "Don Quixotes" was written by this Russian author of Fathers and Sons.
  Part 3 (ans: A Sportsman's Sketches [or Zapiski Ohotnika; or A Sportsman's Notebook; or The Hunting Sketches; or Sketches from a Hunting Album]):
    Vasily Vasilyevich identifies himself as a "Hamlet" in the story "Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District", which is part of this Turgenev collection based on experiences at his mother's estate.

[B9] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this story is asked why he goes to bed when he's not sleepy and asks "What else would you have me do?" before wondering why his bed has no fleas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District"):
    Name this story, where the narrator meets a man at a party who tells him about how he "purposely exposed himself to all kinds of petty slights" when his wife Sofya died after having an affair with Mr. Orbassanov.
  Part 2 (ans: Ivan Turgenev):
    "Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District" was written by this author, who created the nihilist Bazarov in Fathers and Sons.
  Part 3 (ans: A Sportsman's Sketches):
    "Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District" appears in this short story collection, whose treatment of the lives of serfs got Turgenev arrested. It also includes "Kasyan from the Beautiful Lands," "Death," and "Forest and Steppe."

[B10] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about the concept of the "superfluous man" in Russian literature:
  Part 1 (ans: Ivan Turgenev):
    The term for cynical, existentially bored characters was popularized by this man's Diary of a Superfluous Man. This man also wrote about serfdom in his collection A Sportsman's Sketches.
  Part 2 (ans: LordByron [Accept George Gordon]):
    The superfluous man can be thought of as an extension of the hero named for this English poet of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and Don Juan.
  Part 3 (ans: EugeneOnegin [Accept either; accept Yevgeny Onegin]):
    The character type itself may originate with this character, who titles a verse novel in which he shoots Lensky in a duel after dancing with his fiancee Olga.

[B11] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this man, Kalinovich marries the crippled but rich Polina instead of Nastenka in pursuit of the title "one thousand souls." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksey Pisemsky [or Aleksey Feofilaktovich Pisemsky]):
    Name this realist writer of Boyarshchina ("boy-ar-SHEE-nuh") and the play A Bitter Fate. The hapless and lazy title character Pavel Beshmetev marries the unfaithful Yuliya in his novel The Simpleton.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Ilyich Oblomov ("uh-BLOH-muff")):
    Another weak-willed character in Russian fiction is this title character who rarely rises from his bed. His friend Andrey Stoltz fails to rouse him from inactivity, and he dies from a self-declared "-itis" of himself.
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan Turgenev ("tur-GAIN-yif") [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    Ivan Goncharov, the writer of Oblomov, accused this man of plagiarizing his novel The Precipice for the novel A Nest of Gentlefolk. In another of his novels, the nihilist Bazarov dies from blood poisoning after a duel with Pavel.

[B12] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this author's story "Bezhi Lea," Pavlusha drives away what may be a pack of wolves, but it's later revealed that he has died after falling off a horse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ivan Turgenev):
    Name this author who collected anti-serfdom impressions of the countryside in A Sportsman's Sketches. He wrote Fathers and Sons.
  Part 2 (ans: a dwarf):
    The title character of one of the Sportsman's Sketches, "Kasyan from the Beautiful Lands" is one of these people who spends his days catching nightingales. One of these people titles a Swedish novel where he strangles a rival named Jehosophat to become the only person of his kind at the Prince's court.
  Part 3 (ans: Isaiah Berlin):
    This author's essay "Turgenev and the Liberal Predicament" clarifies the role of social consciousness in Turgenev's writings, emphasizing the influence of Vissarion Belinsky. This author's collection Against the Current profiles Alexander Herzen among other dissenting figures.

[B13] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novella is shocked to find his father striking the widow Zinaida with a riding crop as part of a weird sadomasochistic relationship. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: First Love [or Pervaya ljubov]):
    Name this novella framed by Vladimir Petrovich and two other gentlemen recounting their earliest romantic memories.
  Part 2 (ans: Ivan Turgenev [or Ivan Sergeyevich Turgenev]):
    First Love is a popular novella by this Russian author, who was jailed for writing an obituary of Gogol. The nihilist Bazarov is the protagonist of this author's novel Fathers and Sons.
  Part 3 (ans: "A Living Relic" [or "Zhivye moshhi", be open to protests, since I got this title from an online Russian transliterator]):
    A later edition of Turgenev's Sportsman's Sketches includes this heart-wrenching story, in which the title character, a beautiful serf named Lukerya, is completely immobilized and on the verge of death due to a digestive disease. Despite her doomed condition, however, she enjoys taking in the sights and sounds of nature, and teaches an orphan girl to sing.

[B14] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of this novel, the protagonist complains about a cook throwing boiling water at him and scalding his left side. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heart of a Dog [or Sobach'e serdtse]):
    Name this novel which centers on a professor's attempts to civilize a creature into which he has transplanted a human pituitary gland and testicles.
  Part 2 (ans: The Brothers Karamazov [or Bratya Karamazovy]):
    In this Dostoevsky novel, a dog is cruelly fed a piece of bread with a needle hidden inside by Ilyusha. Earlier on, Ivan relates the Parable of the Grand Inquisitor to Alyosha.
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan Turgenev):
    This author's poem "The Dog" is actually about three different dogs: a ghost dog, a faithful companion, and a rabid dog that kills the faithful companion. This author also wrote "The Hamlet of the Shchigrovsky District."

[B15] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist is looked after by his servant Zakhar, and he becomes infatuated with his landlady, Agafya, after his fiance Olga instead marries his friend Stoltz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oblomov):
    Name this novel in which Olga's attempts to wake the protagonist from his feelings of inertia by making him go to the Hermitage and write book reports ultimately fail.
  Part 2 (ans: Superfluous Man):
    Goncharov's character Oblomov is often said to typify this archetype from Russian literature that consists of a person who does not fit into society and instead takes up a hopeless attitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan Turgenev):
    This author brought the term "Superfluous Man" to prominence with his "Diary of a Superfluous Man." He also wrote the collection A Sportsman's Sketches and the novel Fathers and Sons.
