=== STOCK CLUES: Kaprow ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Allan Kaprow <HF>
  - This artist explained the way in which brushing his teeth can be an artistic practice in his essay "Art Which Can't Be Art." One of this artist's works took place in a cave in the Bronx, in which a girl fried bananas while two other girls offered visitors red or white wine. [PWR]
  - Several of this artist's works involve covering bodies or cars with jam, including a work in which women lick jam off of a smoking car wreck.
  - This artist of Eat and Household taught Claes Oldenburg. [PWR]
  - Michael Kirby documented a 1959 exhibition at the Reuben Gallery in which this man presented (*) 18 works "in 6 parts." This man introduced the genre of "environments" along with another art form that involves viewers acting as participants in a temporary event in his essay "The Legacy of Jackson Pollock." For 10 points, name this American performance artist who developed the genre of the "Happening." [PWR,GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The introduction of Pablo Helguera's Education for Socially Engaged Art describes the influence of this artist on the development of socially engaged art in the United States. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Allan Kaprow):
    Name this pioneer of installation art, who coined the term "environments" to refer to his transformed spaces. He described the theory behind another form of art he coined in his essay "The Legacy of Jackson Pollock."
  Part 2 (ans: performance art):
    Kaprow's "happenings" are often considered a precursor to this art form. The audience is often invited to participate in works in this typically live art form, whose practitioners include Yoko Ono and Marina Abramovic.
  Part 3 (ans: Fluxus):
    Performance art was a major part of this art movement, of which Kaprow and Ono were members. Another member of this avant-garde art movement, Joseph Beuys, staged How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an essay, this artist called for "concrete art" made of "paint, chairs, food, electric and neon lights, smoke, water, old socks, a dog," and "movies." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Allan Kaprow):
    Name this performance artist who coined a term defined as "a game, an adventure, a number of activities engaged in by participants for the sake of playing."
  Part 2 (ans: happenings):
    Kaprow coined this generic-sounding term to describe early performance art pieces and made a work titled "Eighteen [these] in Six Parts." Yoko Ono's piece Cut Piece is sometimes classified as one of these performances.
  Part 3 (ans: Eat):
    In this Allan Kaprow performance that he called a happening, visitors were offered wine and fruit and led to a cave where Kaprow served boiled potatoes.

[B3] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This critic's 2001 essay collection The Blurring of Art and Life opens with an essay arguing that, in light of the passing of the title painter, artists should pursue a more spontaneous "new concrete art" instead of creating "near-paintings" mimicking his scale and form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Allan Kaprow):
    Name this critic who wrote "The Legacy of Jackson Pollock" while teaching at Rutgers, where he also developed his concept of nonlinear events known as "happenings."
  Part 2 (ans: performance art):
    Kaprow's "happenings" are part of this genre of art that usually involves the artist's live presence and possible interaction with an audience. Artists prolific in this genre include Chris Burden and Marina Abramovic ("ah-BRAH-moh-vitch").
  Part 3 (ans: Gutai group [or Gutai Bijutsu Kyokai]):
    Also during the 1950s, this Japanese performance art movement produced Challenge to the Mud, in which a man rolled around in clay, and Laceration of Paper, in which an artist hurled himself through several paper screens.

[B4] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One essay argues the word "failure" cannot be applied to this art form "for when something goes 'wrong', something far more 'right', may emerge." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Happenings):
    Name this art form coined in the essay "The Legacy of Jackson Pollock" that discarded the hierarchy between audience and artist. One titled "Words" saw people tear of fragments of two rolls of cloth printed with random texts.
  Part 2 (ans: Allan Kaprow):
    This American artist who studied under John Cage created hundreds of "Happening" throughout his career and created the term "Environment" to describe a precursor to "installation art."
  Part 3 (ans: performance art):
    Kaprow is ofen viewed as a pioneer of this conceptual art where the artist usually tries to interact with the audience, exemplifed by Joseph Beuys's How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Rabbit.

[B5] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer stuff about performance art, FTPE.
  Part 1 (ans: "The Artist is Present"):
    In this recent performance piece at the MoMA, Marina Abramovic sought to have an "emotional connection with anyone who wants to look at me for however long." It involved people sitting in an empty chair alongside Abramovic.
  Part 2 (ans: Velvet Underground):
    Andy Warhol's multimedia show Exploding Plastic Inevitable featured the music of the German model Nico and this band, which included John Cale and Lou Reed.
  Part 3 (ans: Allan Kaprow):
    This pioneer of performance art and author of the essay "The Legacy of Jackson Pollock" claimed that he practiced "un-art" and coined the term "Happenings" in 1957 to describe audience participation with artwork.
