=== STOCK CLUES: Abramovic ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Marina Abramovic ("uh-BRAM-o-vitch") [accept Marina Abramovic Made Me Cry]
  - This artist created a series of alabaster self-portraits titled Five Stages of Maya Dance. [PWR]
  - A Tumblr blog called "[this artist] Made Me Cry" features photos by Marco Anelli captioned with the amount of time it took for visitors to an exhibition by this artist to cry.
  - This artist interviewed a rat-catcher for one of their works inspired by a certain war and requiring thousands of cow bones. [PWR]
  - This artist was denied permission to reproduce (*) Burden's Trans-Fixed for their Seven Easy Pieces. [PWR]
  - An audience member placed this artist's finger on the trigger of a gun pointed at their head in a work in which visitors were presented with 72 objects to use on them.
  - For 10 points, Rhythm 0 was created by which Serbian artist, who had visitors line up to sit at a table opposite her in The Artist Is Present? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Marina Abramovic
  - Denmark's Louisiana Museum of Art hosted this artist's first European retrospective in 2017, titled The Cleaner.
  - This artist invited John Podesta to a spirit cooking in an email leaked during the 2016 election, which led Alex Jones to link this artist and Hillary Clinton to the occult. [PWR]
  - This artist paired Entering the Other Side with pieces by Bruce Nauman and Joseph Beuys in Seven Easy Pieces. [PWR]
  - This artist and their partner met in the middle of the Great Wall of China to end their relationship in the piece Lovers. [PWR]
  - A fight broke out when an (*) audience member held a gun to this artist's head in Rhythm 0.
  - Lady Gaga helped popularize interest in this artist's performance at a 2010 MoMA retrospective in which this artist sat in silence across from museum visitors.
  - For 10 points, name this Serbian "grandmother of performance art" whose work includes The Artist is Present. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Russian oligarchs [or oligarkhi; prompt on Russians; prompt on businessmen, entrepreneurs, investors, or similar answers until "businessmen" is read] (Mikhail Khodorkovsky was the jailed writer. Vladimir Putin was the author of the PhD thesis. Boris Berezovsky sued Roman Abramovich over Sibneft.)
  - A person of this sort advocated a new social policy in the three-part newspaper essay "Left Turn" and ran for parliament while jailed, which he described in the book My Fellow Prisoners.
  - These people were forced to accept "new rules of the game" by a leader whose PhD thesis proposed "national champions" as an alternative to them.
  - One of these people sued another of them after saying he coerced him into selling Sibneft shares.
  - These people, who included a group called the "Seven Bankers," first fully emerged after buying into the "loans-for-shares" scheme formed by Anatoly Chubais .
  - In 2022, one of these people sold a sports club to a consortium led by Todd Boehly  when the Premier League disqualified him as a director of Chelsea.
  - For 10 points, Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Roman Abramovich are what sort of businessmen who made fortunes when Russia's economy was privatized? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Marina Abramovic ("uh-BRAH-mo-vitch")
  - Lines in a book by this artist instruct the reader to obtain "13,000 grams of jealousy" to make "aphrodisiac recipes." This artist led a series of 5-day long workshops called Cleaning the House where participants refrained from eating or speaking. [PWR]
  - In a piece, this artist leaned backwards holding a bow while another artist held an arrow to the string pointed at the heart. [PWR]
  - This artist played the knife game with 20 different knives in a debut piece in Edinburgh. [PWR]
  - In another piece, this artist (*) scrubbed down thousands of bloody cow bones over four days.
  - This artist performed Thomas Lips and Entering the Other Side on the last two nights of the performance Seven Easy Pieces.
  - Someone cut this artist's neck and drank her blood during a performance involving 76 objects on a table.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of Rhythm 0 who sat with different individual audience members for 736 total hours in The Artist Is Present, the Serbian "grandmother of performance art." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one performance art piece, one of these animals rested on the arm of an artist who repeatedly stepped over a tree while walking for three hours. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hares [accept rabbits or bunny or bunnies; accept How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare]):
    Name these animals that were described as a "symbol of incarnation" by that artist, who created a performance art piece in which he whispered to one of them at the Galerie Schmela in Dusseldorf.
  Part 2 (ans: gold [accept gold leaf]):
    While performing How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare, Joseph Beuys coated his head in honey and the "leaf" of this metal, which was used by Gustav Klimt for the background of The Kiss.
  Part 3 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This artist included How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare in a collection of Seven Easy Pieces dedicated to Susan Sontag. An audience member pointed a gun at this artist's head during a performance of Rhythm 0.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some performance artists who covered themselves with food, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This creator of Spirit Cooking included bread, wine, and honey among the objects available to participants in her performance Rhythm 0. She performed The Artist is Present in 2010.
  Part 2 (ans: Zhang ("jahng") Huan):
    This other artist covered himself in honey for the work 12 Square Meters, in which he sat in a filthy public toilet and allowed himself to be swarmed with flies. This artist led nine other artists from the Beijing East Village to lay down on top of a mountain summit in To Add One Meter to an Anonymous Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: Carolee Schneemann ):
    This American performance artist rolled around in sausages, fish, and other meat products in Meat Joy. She read from a scroll held in her own vagina in Interior Scroll.

[B3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's longtime collaborator explored gender identity by displaying Polaroids showing himself dressed as a woman and smoking cigarettes in the exhibition "Renais Sense." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Abramovic ("uh-BRAH-mo-vitch")):
    Name this artist who formed a collective being known as "the Other" with another artist throughout the 1970s. This artist tearfully reunited with her former artistic partner Ulay during a 2010 show held at the MOMA.
  Part 2 (ans: bow and arrow [prompt on partial answers]):
    Abramovic and Ulay held one of these objects for four minutes near Abramovic's chest in the collaborative piece, Rest Energy.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Wall of China [or Wanli Changcheng; or Wan-li Ch'ang-ch'eng;]):
    Abramovic and Ulay's final collaboration consisted of walking across this structure from opposite ends and meeting in the middle before parting ways. This 10,000-mile-long structure cannot actually be seen from space.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Video artists Steina and Woody Vasulka created a music and art space of this name that was a venue for many no wave artists as well as Laurie Anderson, Joan Jonas, and others. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kitchens [accept Semiotics of the Kitchen; accept The Kitchen] (Abramovic's performance is called Spirit Cooking.)):
    Name this place where Martha Rosler alphabetically presents tools in a performance titled for its "Semiotics." With pig blood, Marina Abramovic wrote directions ostensibly used in this sort of place for a work dubbed "Spirit."
  Part 2 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Rosler's The Bowery in two inadequate descriptive systems documents this city, where The Kitchen works out of a building located blocks from the Whitney Museum.
  Part 3 (ans: Judy Chicago (The second piece is The Dinner Party.)):
    A Nurturant Kitchen with eggs that morph into breasts was part of Womanhouse, an installation co-created by Miriam Schapiro and this artist. This artist made a triangular installation with "butterfly-vagina" imagery.

[B5] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artwork was tied to an odd conspiracy concerning Hillary Clinton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spirit Cooking 1.):
    Name this series of etchings that later evolved into a form of dinner party entertainment. They feature recipes like "golden ball," supposedly sourced from Tibetan monks.
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This performance artist created Spirit Cooking. She is better known for The Artist is Present.
  Part 3 (ans: Ulay [accept Frank Uwe Laysiepen]):
    At one staging of The Artist is Present, this other artist, a former collaborator and lover of Abramovic, made a surprise appearance. He later sued Abramovic over breach of contract in 2015.

[B6] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a TED talk about this type of art as "made of trust, vulnerability and connection," an artist distinguished it from theater by saying that in this type of art, "the blood is the material," not ketchup. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: performance art):
    Name this type of conceptual art in which artists themselves are the focus of an audience.
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This "grandmother of performance art" invited members of the public to sit opposite her in silence in her 736-hour piece The Artist is Present, to which her longtime partner Ulay also showed up.
  Part 3 (ans: Tehching Hsieh):
    Abramovic called this Taiwanese-born performance artist a "master." This artist's One Year Performances include one in which he denied himself speech and entertainment while locked in a cage for a year.

[B7] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One piece by this artist involves her leaning backwards as she holds a bow while another person draws an arrow pointing at her chest. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Abramovic ("ah-brah-moh-vitch")):
    Name this Serbian performance artist who frequently collaborated with her partner Ulay on pieces like Rest Energy and Relation in Time. The couple reunited as a part of one piece during which this artist invited audience members to sit opposite her.
  Part 2 (ans: China [or People's Republic of China or PRC; or Zhongguo or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo]):
    Abramovic and Ulay walked across a long structure in this country and united in the middle in their piece The Lovers. An artist from this country, Ai Weiwei, designed the "Bird's Nest" Stadium in its capital city.
  Part 3 (ans: Rhythm series [or Rhythm 0]):
    In an entry from this series to which she assigned the number zero, Abramovic stood still while participants were welcome to do anything to her body with provided objects such as a rose, a gun, and a pair of scissors.

[B8] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about multidisciplinary American artist Bruce Nauman, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fountain [accept Self-Portrait as a Fountain]):
    Nauman spits a stream of water with hands aloft in a piece called Self-Portrait as this type of object. This type of object titles a Marcel Duchamp piece comprising a urinal signed "R. Mutt."
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic ("ah-BRAH-moh-vich")):
    As part of the series Seven Easy Pieces, this artist recreated a Nauman work in which the artist's body presses against a wall. Onlookers applauded former collaborator Ulay surprising this artist during a silent 2010 piece.
  Part 3 (ans: spiral [accept Spiral Jetty (by Robert Smithson); accept coil, swirl, or helix]):
    A Nauman neon sign arranges the slogan "The true artist helps the world by revealing mystic truths" in this form. The artist of a work titled for this configuration remarked "et in Utah ego" upon viewing it.

[B9] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After a screening tour for a film depicting this action, its performers pledged not to talk about it for exactly 23 years after it first took place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: burning money [accept Watch the K Foundation Burn a Million Quid; accept any answers that indicate setting fire or burning British paper money]):
    Describe this action that occurred in 1994 at a boathouse in Ardfin, a country estate in the Inner Hebrides. The K Foundation dissolved after performing this action.
  Part 2 (ans: paintings [prompt on works of art]):
    In the Cremation Project, John Baldessari burned all of the objects of this kind in his possession that he made from 1953 to 1966. One of these objects created by Banksy was shredded during a Sotheby's ("SUH-the-bee's") auction.
  Part 3 (ans: Marina Abramovic ("ah-BRAH-mo-vitch")):
    While performing Rhythm 5, this artist lost consciousness after setting fire to a wooden star and lying inside it. This artist's Rhythm 10 involved jabbing at their own fingers with a knife.

[B10] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these performance artists who incorporated guns into their work.
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    In her terrifying 1974 artwork Rhythm 0, this artist laid 72 items on a table including a pistol with one bullet, and invited the public to use it on her in any way they wished. Her other works include "The Artist is Present".
  Part 2 (ans: Chris Burden):
    In Shoot, this artist was shot in the shoulder with a .22 caliber rifle. He resigned his professorship from UCLA after a scandal in which a Master's student played Russian Roulette for his live final project.
  Part 3 (ans: Francis Alys):
    In one of his "Re-Enactments" this artist illegally bought a gun, pranced through the streets of Mexico City, was arrested, bribed the officers, and then convinced the corrupt po-po into reenacting the piece. This Belgian-born artist had a bunch of volunteers move a giant ice cube through Mexico City in The Paradox of Praxis One.

[B11] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Social Science
     Leadin: This economist developed the concept of Gross National Product as part of an interwar project at NBER. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Simon Kuznets [or Simon Smith Kuznets; accept Semyon Abramovich Kuznets or Shimen Abramovich Kuznets; accept Kuznets cycles]):
    Name this Ukrainian-American economist who received the 1971 Nobel Prize for his work on economic growth. This economist also names 15-20 year production cycles.
  Part 2 (ans: economic inequality):
    The Kuznets curve predicts that this value will increase with industrialization and then decrease after a critical point. The Gini coefficient is a measure of this quantity, which is the primary subject of Thomas Piketty's Capital.
  Part 3 (ans: population age distribution [accept population pyramid]):
    The Gini coefficient does not account for potential skew in this distribution, which can present as either a "demographic bulge" or "demographic dividend."

[B12] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: In this series's first piece, a woman plays five-finger fillet and grabs a larger knife each time she stabs herself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rhythm):
    Name this series of numbered performances. For its entry number "0," the performer placed objects like a scalpel and a loaded gun on a table, stood still, and let the audience do whatever they wanted to her for six hours.
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    The Rhythm series was devised by this Serbian performance artist. In 2005, this woman performed works by Vito Acconci and Bruce Nauman live at the Guggenheim for her performance Seven Easy Pieces.
  Part 3 (ans: MoMA [or Museum of Modern Art]):
    In 2010, Abramovic sat stationary for a combined 736 hours in this New York City museum. Matisse's The Dance and Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon are housed in this museum which, unlike the Met, is in Midtown.

[B13] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: Answer the following about the performance art piece Seedbed for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Vito Acconci):
    This artist described graphic sexual fantasies about guests over a loudspeaker while masturbating in a separate room in his Seedbed. Later in life, he went into architecture, designing buildings including the Murinsel in Graz, Austria.
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This Serbian artist also performed a version of Seedbed in 2005. Her other pieces include The Artist is Present, in which she sat in a museum for 736 hours.
  Part 3 (ans: New York City [accept NYC]):
    Seedbed took place in this city's Sonnabend Gallery. In Joseph Beuys' I Like America and America Likes Me, he flew into this city's John F. Kennedy Airport, then took an ambulance to a room where he stayed with a coyote for days before flying back out.

[B14] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During this artist's Rhythm 0 ['zero'], their clothes were cut away with razor blades and, eventually, a loaded gun was forced into their hand. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    Name this artist, who in one work spent nineteen minutes breathing into their partner's mouth, with whom they also stood naked either side of a doorway while people squeezed past them.
  Part 2 (ans: the audience [accept equivalents]):
    Rhythm 0, like many works of performance art, was an examination of the relationship of this entity with the artist. This entity is addressed by performers through the breaking of the fourth wall.
  Part 3 (ans: happenings):
    Allan Kaprow advocated these performative pieces which hinge on the unpredictability of the audience, such as when he presented 18 [of these things] in 6 Parts. John Cage had earlier experimented with 'musical' varieties of these pieces.

[B15] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist dressed herself in white and cut herself with rose thorns and razor blades in Sentimental Action. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gina Pane):
    Name this Italian-French body artist who lied down on a metal frame directly above fifteen lit candles in her piece The Conditioning.
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This woman recreated Pane's The Conditioning as part of her series Seven Easy Pieces. She sat silently at a table with MoMA patrons in 2010's The Artist is Present.
  Part 3 (ans: guns [accept more specific answers like machine guns, pistols, or rifles]):
    Inspired by a poster for the original, Abramovic held one of these objects while recreating Valie Export's Action Pants: Genital Panic. Chris Burden filmed a friend using one of these weapons on him, and the 1903 film The Great Train Robbery ends with a bandit seeming to use one of these weapons on the audience.

[B16] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about an assortment of easy pieces:
  Part 1 (ans: Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky):
    The French princess Eugene Murat commissioned "Five Easy Pieces", a set of piano duets by this composer. This composer wrote the Dumbarton Oaks concerto in his neoclassical phase.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Feynman):
    "Six Easy Pieces" is the abridged version of a collection of lectures by this Caltech physicist. This physicist won the Nobel for his work on quantum electrodynamics and names diagrams used to model particle interactions.
  Part 3 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This artist one-upped Feynman by presenting "Seven Easy Pieces" at the New York Guggenheim in 2005. Other major works by this "grandmother of performance art" have included "The Artist is Present" and "Rhythm Zero".

[B17] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one piece, this artist gave the audience objects including a gun and allowed them to do whatever they wanted to her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Abramovic (Ah-BRAHM-o-vich)):
    Name this performance artist. In her most famous piece, "The Artist is Present," she allowed people to sit across from her for however long they wanted to create an emotional connection.
  Part 2 (ans: a coyote):
    In the performance art piece I Like America and America Likes Me, the Fluxus artist Joseph Beuys (boyz) flew to the US, lived in a small room with this wild animal for 8 hours a day for 3 days, and flew back to Germany.
  Part 3 (ans: Jackson Pollock):
    In a eulogy for this artist, Allan Kaprow argued that his emphasis on the act of painting by the "dance of dripping" foreshadowed performance art.

[B18] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several commentators compared Shia LaBeouf's performance #IAMSORRY to this artist's work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    Name this Serbian performance artist, whose works include The Artist Is Present, in which visitors queued to sit opposite her in silence.
  Part 2 (ans: rhythm):
    Abramovic performed several works with this name, including offering audience members cake, paint, and 72 other objects to use on her. Charlie Parker and Dizzie Gillespie's "Anthropology" is based on the George Gershwin song is "I got [this].".
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Beuys):
    In 2005, Abramovic re-enacted this artist's performance How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare. A live coyote was involved in this artist's 1974 'Action' I Like America And America Likes Me.

[B19] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer these questions about contemporary art made by, or consisting of, women's bodies, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Yves Klein):
    This 20th-century French artist had naked women cover themselves in paint and roll all over a canvas to paint it in his "anthropometry" series. He created many monochrome works with a vivid "international...blue" color.
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic):
    This Yugoslav-born performance artist let audiences handle 72 objects, including a loaded gun, as she sat for six hours in Rhythm 0. This frequent collaborator with Ulay sat motionless across from MoMA audiences who berated her one-by-one in The Artist is Present.
  Part 3 (ans: Interior Scroll):
    In this 1975 performance piece, Carolee Schneeman disrobed on stage, pulled a rolled-up piece of parchment out of her vagina, and read a speech on feminist theory which was printed on the parchment.
