=== STOCK CLUES: Big Blonde ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: blonde [accept "Big Blonde"; prompt on big by asking "how else does the title describe the protagonist?"; accept Gentlemen Prefer Blondes]
  - In a story titled for this kind of person, the protagonist steps out her front door one night and sees a horse pulling a rickety wagon slip on ice and fall down right in front of her. [PWR]
  - In a novel whose title refers to the protagonist as this kind of person, the protagonist is told to "cultivate some inhibitions" by Sigmund Freud.
  - A story titled for this kind of person ends after the protagonist is told to "cheer up" by the black maid Nettie after she gives the toast "Here's (*) mud in your eye." This is the [emphasize] second type of person in the title of a novel whose protagonist tricks men like Francis Beekman with her friend Dorothy Shaw. [PWR]
  - Two vials of veronal are used in an attempted suicide by Hazel Morse in a story titled for a "big" one of these people written by Dorothy Parker.
  - For 10 points, Lorelei Lee is the protagonist of a novel by Anita Loos titled Gentlemen Prefer what type of women? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these people turns down several suitors for not living in New York before marrying a man who toasts "here's mud in your eye." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blondes [accept "Big Blonde"; accept Gentlemen Prefer Blondes]):
    Name this kind of person who titles a Dorothy Parker story about the "big" alcoholic Hazel Moates. Lorelei Lee travels to France in an Anita Loos novel titled for these people.
  Part 2 (ans: Bob Dylan):
    A Vanity Fair article on "Blonde on Blonde as literature" defends the Swedish Academy's decision to grant the Nobel to this American folk musician 🤪.
  Part 3 (ans: Joyce Carol Oates (the story is "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?")):
    This author's novel about Marilyn Monroe, Blonde, was adapted into a graphic 2022 biopic. The numbers 33,19, 17 are painted on a gold jalopy in a story that this author dedicated to Bob Dylan.

[B2] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this story tries to kill herself with twenty tablets of Veronal; after waking up two days later, she shares a drink with her maid, Nettie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Big Blonde"):
    Name this short story in which Hazel Morse struggles with alcoholism and depression at Jimmy's bar.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]):
    "Big Blonde" is a short story by this author. She wrote book reviews as Constant Reader and was known for her cutting remarks as a member of the Algonquin Round Table.
  Part 3 (ans: Detroit):
    Hazel Morse's husband Herbie moved to this city for a job in "Big Blonde." The economic migrants in Harriette Arnow's The Dollmaker find industrial work in this city's auto plants.

[B3] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this short story's behavior at the theater is described as a "standing joke," because she cries at anything, including "tiny garments" and "love both unrequited and mutual." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Big Blonde"):
    Name this short story about Hazel Morse, who toasts her maid Nettie with the catchphrase "Here's mud in your eye" after being woken from a drug-induced coma.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    "Big Blonde" is by this founding member of the Algonquin Round Table, who noted that "men seldom make passes / at girls who wear glasses" in her poem "News Item."
  Part 3 (ans: Black Oxen):
    Parker was fictionalized as Gora Dwight, a character "disillusioned in regard to men," in this Gertrude Atherton novel, which chronicles the elderly Mary Ogden's return to youthfulness after undergoing glandular therapy in Europe.
