=== STOCK CLUES: Dorothy Parker ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 23 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker
  - One piece by this author complains repetitively about going out with Ollie Martin and her "revolting black nails," ending "Damn Miss Rose." A character repeatedly references La Rochefoucauld  in an insomniac's monologue by this author. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author of "From the Diary of a New York Lady" and "The Little Hours," a woman who is called "a good sport" by men declares "here's mud in your eye" while praying to be "always drunk." Hazel Morse fails to kill herself in this author's short story (*) "Big Blonde." This author of a poem asking for "one perfect limousine" wrote "Razors pain you; rivers are damp" in a poem that concludes "you might as well live." This author wrote the "News Item" "Men seldom make passes / At girls who wear glasses." For 10 points, name this member of the Algonquin Round Table, known for "Resume" and other cynical poems. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker
  - This author wrote a poem that notes how the title group "makes me sick, they make me tired" after writing how "they hail you as the morning star." This poet wrote, "Count to ten, and man is bored" in a poem that opens "Women wants monogamy; Man delights in novelty." This author of "General Review of the Sex Situation" opened a poem with the lines "My own dear love, he is strong and bold / And he cares not what comes after." That poem, which ends "I wish somebody'd (*) shoot him," is titled "Love Song." An eight-line poem by this author notes "Acids stain you" and "Gas smells awful" in a poem that opens "Razors pain you." The line "You might as well live" closes this author's poem "Resume." This author cynically wrote, "Men seldom make passes / At girls who wear glasses." For 10 points, name this witty member of the Algonquin Round Table. [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2022 MUSES III (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild] (The first three poems in order are: "The Immortals," "Unfortunate Coincidence," and "One Perfect Rose.")
  - In one poem, this poet describes herself and a lover who deceive a "mooning world" with "how prettily we sigh and swear," saying "And though we lie forever enemies, / Shall rank with Abelard and Heloise." In another poem by this author, she warns that after two lovers swear devotion, "Lady, make a note of this: / One of you is lying." This poet asks "Why is it no one ever sent me yet / One perfect limousine, do you suppose?" before lamenting that it's always her luck to get (+) "one perfect rose." In one poem, this poet catalogs "Love, curiosity, freckles, and doubt" as "Four of the things I'd rather be without." A speaker created by this poet asks, "What earthly good can come of it?" after remarking, "Woman lives but in her lord; (*) Count to ten, and man is bored." This poet who included "Inventory" and "General Review of the Sex Situation" in her collection Enough Rope quipped, "Men seldom make passes / At girls who wear glasses." For 10 points, "News Item" was written by what heteropessimist poet of the Algonquin Round Table? [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker
  - In a story by this author, two "conspicuous and cheap and charming" stenographers who "lunch on sugar" argue over whether silver-fox coats are "common." Annabel and Midge ask for the price of a string of pearls as part of a game of "what-would-you-do-if-you-had-a-million-dollars" in that story by this author.
  - This writer noted A.
  - A.
  - Milne's use of the word "hummy" as "the first place at which Tonstant Weader Fwowed up." Another poem by this author of "The Standard of Living" states that "the ladies men admire, I've heard / would shudder at a wicked word." Along with "Interview," this author wrote that "Razors pain you; / Rivers are damp" in a poem that ends with the line "You might as well live." For 10 points, name this Algonquin Round Table member, known for cynical poems such as "Resume." [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker
  - The protagonist of a story by this author allows a man from Utica to possess her photograph the same day that her husband Herbie announces that he is leaving her to take a job in Detroit. [PWR]
  - This author described a woman who "will always wait by the same old gate, / The gate her true love gave her" in the poem "Song in a Minor Key." Hazel Morse survives an (*) overdose of veronal in her story "Big Blonde." This author penned a in her poem "Resume," which sarcastically concludes "You might as well live." For 10 points, name this female satirist who was an original member of the Algonquin Round Table. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker
  - This author wrote a short story in which the plain title character is pursued by the handsome John Marble, causing her mother to anticipate the failure of their marriage. [PWR]
  - In addition to telling about the widow Mrs. [PWR]
  - Ewing in (+) Lolita, this writer told of a character who gave his wife a black eye and left her for two days when she joked about it while drinking.
  - The protagonist of that story toasts drinks with her husband saying "Here's mud in your eye!". [PWR]
  - She spends nights at (*) Jimmy's with her boyfriends when that husband, Herbie, leaves her for Detroit.
  - That title character travels to New Jersey to obtain two vials of veronal, but her attempt at suicide with them is unsuccessful.
  - For ten points, name this author who created Hazel Morse in Big Blonde, a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table. [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker
  - The title character of a story by this author makes the toast "Here's mud in your eye" as she swallows twenty tablets of veronal. [PWR]
  - This author wrote "They hail you as their morning star / Because you are the way you are" about the title group of a poem ending "They make me sick, they make me tired." This author wrote that "three be the things I shall never attain: envy, content, and sufficient champagne" in the poem "Inventory," published in the collection (*) Enough Rope.
  - This author wrote book reviews for The New Yorker under the byline "Constant Reader" and co-wrote the screenplay to A Star is Born with her husband Alan Campbell.
  - This author wrote that "Razors pain you; Rivers are damp" in her poem "Resume," which ends "Gas smells awful; you might as well live." For 10 points, name this American poet, a member of the Algonquin Round Table known for her acerbic wit. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Parker
  - In one poem, this author wrote "My soul discerns no beauty in" the sight of the swallow's flight "because my dearest love is gone away." This author wrote a short story consisting entirely of the thoughts of a woman waiting for a man to call her, as well as a story in which a woman repeatedly insists that she does not care that Walter Williams is black.
  - One poem by this author lists the downsides of a number of suicide methods, including "Drugs cause cramp" and "Gas smells awful," concluding "You might as well live." One of this author's poems consists of three stanzas extolling the virtues of her lover, each stanza ending with a line like "And I wish I'd never met him" or "And I wish somebody'd shoot him." Her poem "News Item" runs, in its entirety, "Men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses." For 10 points, name this member of the Algonquin Round Table noted for her wit. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story, a couple is repeatedly subjected to these events by a man who, when confronted, says that "I'm not an evil man, I don't think. Not evil, like you said" during one of these events, and gives them hot cinnamon rolls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a telephone call [accept synonyms like telephone conversation; accept "Where I'm Calling From"]):
    Name this type of event referenced in the title of another story whose narrator recalls the plot of Jack London's "To Build a Fire" while contemplating what to say to his wife and his girlfriend.
  Part 2 (ans: Raymond Carver):
    "A Small, Good Thing" and "Where I'm Calling From" are by this author of the story collection Cathedral.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    A woman waits for a call from a man who calls her "darling" twice in this author's story "A Telephone Call."The alcoholic Hazel Morse survives an overdose in this author's story "Big Blonde."

[B2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about appearances of Sarah Baartman, a South African woman derisively called the "Hottentot Venus," in contemporary poetry, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: US presidential inaugurations):
    Elizabeth Alexander, who wrote the 1990 collection The Venus Hottentot, read "Praise Song for the Day" at one of these events in 2009. At this event's 2021 iteration, Amanda Gorman read her poem "The Hill We Climb."
  Part 2 (ans: Cathy Park Hong):
    The poem "Hottentot Venus" appears in this poet's collection Translating Mo'um. This author of the collection Dance Dance Revolution included an essay on the poet Theresa Hak Kyung Cha in her book Minor Feelings.
  Part 3 (ans: Parker [accept Morgan Parker or Dorothy Parker]):
    A poet with this surname imagined Baartman urging "Mother America, / unleash your sons" in the collection There Are More Beautiful Things Than Beyonce. A poet with this surname wrote "Men seldom make passes / At girls who wear glasses" in "News Item."

[B3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Izaak Walton's The Compleat Angler, the milkmaid Maudlin sings this poem in exchange for a fish from Piscator. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love"):
    Name this poem quoted in the first line of John Donne's fishing-inspired "The Bait." This poem's speaker declares "we will all the pleasures prove," promising "a bed of roses" and "a belt of straw and ivy buds."
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    This Elizabethan author of the poem "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" wrote the play Doctor Faustus.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]):
    In a response to Marlowe's poem, this author declared "where a Freud in need is a Freud indeed / we'll always be Jung together." This author's poem "Inventory" notes: "Four be the things I'd been better without: Love, curiosity, freckles, and doubt."

[B4] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After leaving this town, an author realizes they experience music at the New World Cabaret as "great blobs of purple and red emotion" that do not touch their friend. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eatonville):
    Name this town. In an essay, that author reflects on a "Great Stuffer of Bags" after departing this town at the age of thirteen.
  Part 2 (ans: Zora Neale Hurston):
    This author discussed being "thrown against a sharp white background" in the essay "How It Feels To Be Colored Me." Eatonville is the partial setting of this author's novel Their Eyes Were Watching God.
  Part 3 (ans: Parker [accept Morgan Parker or Dorothy Parker; prompt on Rothschild with "what is her married name?"]):
    An author with this surname wrote, "I am thrown. I am against. I sharp. I color." in the poem "I Feel Most Colored When I Am Thrown Against a Sharp White Background." An Algonquin Round Table member with this surname wrote the poem "Resume."

[B5] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem opens by stating that "Razors pain you; / Rivers are damp." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Resume"):
    Name this 8-line poem that ends by proclaiming "Gas smells awful; You might as well live."
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]):
    "Resume" is a poem by this woman, a member of the Algonquin Round Table who wrote "Men seldom make passes / At girls who wear glasses" in "News Item."
  Part 3 (ans: Lolita):
    Parker's short story about the jealous mother Mrs. Ewing shares its title with, and was published three weeks before, this Vladimir Nabokov novel about a pedophile.

[B6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's characters tapped out the message "I love you" in individual letters, leading a theater critic to say "If he does 'y', I'm through. And he did. So I shot myself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A. A. Milne):
    Name this author whose use of the word "hummy" elicited the line "Tonstant Weader Fwowed up" from a New Yorker book review.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    This author savaged A. A. Milne in her "Constant Reader" book reviews. This woman known for her bon mots wrote about Hazel Morse's attempted suicide in "Big Blonde" and quipped "You might as well live" in "Resume."
  Part 3 (ans: Algonquin Round Table):
    Dorothy Parker was a member of this "Vicious Circle" of New York wits also including George S. Kaufman and Robert Benchley.

[B7] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Lord Dundreary, who sports his eponymous large whiskers, delivers expanded malapropisms like 'birds of a feather gather no moss'. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Our American Cousin):
    Name this Tom Taylor play in which the American Asa Trenchard returns to England to claim an aristocratic estate.
  Part 2 (ans: Abraham Lincoln):
    This subject of Walt Whitman's "When Lilacs Last In The Dooryard Bloom'd" was shot by John Wilkes Booth during a performance of Our American Cousin.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    Robert E. Sherwood won a Pulitzer prize for his play Abe Lincoln in Illinois and was a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table along with this wit and author of a poem reading "Men seldom make passes / At girls who wear glasses."

[B8] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this story tries to kill herself with twenty tablets of Veronal; after waking up two days later, she shares a drink with her maid, Nettie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Big Blonde"):
    Name this short story in which Hazel Morse struggles with alcoholism and depression at Jimmy's bar.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]):
    "Big Blonde" is a short story by this author. She wrote book reviews as Constant Reader and was known for her cutting remarks as a member of the Algonquin Round Table.
  Part 3 (ans: Detroit):
    Hazel Morse's husband Herbie moved to this city for a job in "Big Blonde." The economic migrants in Harriette Arnow's The Dollmaker find industrial work in this city's auto plants.

[B9] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this short story's behavior at the theater is described as a "standing joke," because she cries at anything, including "tiny garments" and "love both unrequited and mutual." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Big Blonde"):
    Name this short story about Hazel Morse, who toasts her maid Nettie with the catchphrase "Here's mud in your eye" after being woken from a drug-induced coma.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    "Big Blonde" is by this founding member of the Algonquin Round Table, who noted that "men seldom make passes / at girls who wear glasses" in her poem "News Item."
  Part 3 (ans: Black Oxen):
    Parker was fictionalized as Gora Dwight, a character "disillusioned in regard to men," in this Gertrude Atherton novel, which chronicles the elderly Mary Ogden's return to youthfulness after undergoing glandular therapy in Europe.

[B10] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A parody of this poet notes that "bacon's not the only thing that's cured by hanging from a string." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A. E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman]):
    Name this British poet. Hugh Kingsmill lampooned him in a poem that begins "what, still alive at twenty-two, a clean upstanding chap like you?" in reference to this author's poem "When I Was One-and-Twenty."
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    This member of the Algonquin Round Table imagined "how gay 'twould be / to hang me from a flowering tree" in her parody of "Loveliest of trees, the cherry now." She observed that "Razors pain you, Rivers are damp" and concluded "you might as well live" in her poem "Resume."
  Part 3 (ans: Max Beerbohm [or Henry Maximilian Beerbohm]):
    This author scrawled a Houseman parody beginning "and now, lad, all is over, / 'twixt you, your love, and the clover" in his copy of A Shropshire Lad. He parodied 17 other authors in A Christmas Garland and lampooned the Pre-Raphaelites in Rossetti and His Circle.

[B11] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This overly saccharine and folksy poet wrote "Give me the end of the year an' its fun / When most of the plannin' an' toilin' is done" in his poem "Thanksgiving. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edgar Guest [prompt on Guest]):
    Name this author known as the 'People's Poet,' who claimed that "afore it's home there's got t' be a heap o' living in it."
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    This member of the Algonquin Round Table apocryphally claimed to prefer syphilis to bad poetry, saying she'd "rather flunk her Wasserman test / than read a poem by Edgar Guest." She was known for her wit in works like "Big Blonde" and "Resume."
  Part 3 (ans: The New Yorker):
    Parker was on the first board of editors for this magazine that published works like Shirley Jackson's "The Lottery" and James Thurber's "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty." Its mascot is a dandy peering at a butterfly through his monocle.

[B12] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Hazel Morse becomes depressed when her life as a party girl starts to feel hollow and unfulfilling in this author's most famous short story, "Big Blonde." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothy Parker [or Dorothy Rothschild]):
    Name this American author who wrote caustic book reviews for the New Yorker under the pseudonym "Constant Reader" and penned the poem "News Item", which reads "Men seldom make passes / At girls who wear glasses."
  Part 2 (ans: the Algonquin Round Table [prompt on partial answers]):
    Parker's regular lunches with Robert Benchley and Robert Sherwood became the basis for the meetings of this group of 1920s New York wits. Other members included Alexander Woollcott and George S. Kaufman.
  Part 3 (ans: "You might as well live."):
    Parker's poem "Resume" contains a number of complaints about suicide, including "razors pain you; / rivers are damp" and "guns aren't lawful; / nooses give" before eventually concluding with this sarcastic five-word line.

[B13] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about snarky Americans, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    This American poetess and short story writer got her break as a replacement for P. G. Wodehouse at Vanity Fair. She is best known for her comedic poems like "Resume" which states that "Nooses give, / Gas smells awful. / You might as well live."
  Part 2 (ans: Algonquin Round Table [prompt on "The Board", "Luigi Board" or "The Vicious Circle"]):
    Parker was a founding member of this group of New York City based wits, which also counted among its number such personages as Harpo Marx and Alexander Woollcott.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Sherwood):
    Another prominent member of the Algonquin Round Table was this playwright who won the Pulitzer Prize for his play Abe Lincoln in Illinois.

[B14] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these witty literary folk who contributed to periodicals, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    This woman used the pseudonym "Constant Reader" for her literary reviews in The New Yorker and described Hazel Morse in her story "Big Blonde." She also was a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Louis Mencken):
    This "Sage of Baltimore" contributed to the Baltimore Sun. This author of The American Language coined the term "Monkey" about the Scopes trial.
  Part 3 (ans: Ring Lardner):
    This author scathingly criticized small-town America in a story in which a group of barbers cannot believe that Paul Dickson shot Jim on a duck-hunting trip, "Haircut." He was also known as a sports columnist, and he wrote about White Sox pitcher Jack Keefe in "You Know Me, Al."

[B15] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these poets who wrote lines about lilacs.
  Part 1 (ans: Walt Whitman):
    This poet asked "what shall I hang on the chamber walls?" in his poem "When Lilacs Last in the Door-yard Bloom'd," which mourns the death of Lincoln.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    This poet wrote about how lilacs "emerge just as sweet" as the author's heart in "Threnody." Her poem "Resume" proposes various methods of suicide before concluding "You might as well live."
  Part 3 (ans: Wallace Stevens):
    This poet asked "O caliper, do you scratch your buttocks" in his "Last Look at Lilacs." Another of his poems discusses the "thin men of Haddam" and can be found in his collection Harmonium.

[B16] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: She wrote about Hazel Morse's bitter disillusionment with the role of being a good sport in "The Big Blonde". FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothy Parker):
    Name this literary critic who wrote the "Constant Reader" column for The New Yorker, and who concluded that "You might as well live" after rejecting several proposed methods of suicide in her poem, "Resume".
  Part 2 (ans: Algonquin Round Table):
    Dorothy Parker was part of this group of wits, dubbed "the vicious circle", who met for daily luncheons at a certain hotel. Other members included George S. Kaufman.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Woollcott):
    This Algonquin Round Table member wrote the "Shouts and Murmurs" column for The New Yorker. This lit critic was the inspiration for Sheridan Whiteside in the Kaufman and Hart play The Man Who Came to Dinner.
