=== STOCK CLUES: Ansel Adams ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 35 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Adams [accept Ansel Adams or Ansel Easton Adams; accept Eddie Adams or Edward Thomas Adams; accept Robert Adams]
  - An artist with this surname described 50 refugees in his photo-essay "Boat of No Smiles." Another artist with this surname had his images of tract houses featured in the 1975 exhibition New Topographics.
  - That photographer with this surname and first name Robert depicted "Landscapes Along the Colorado Front Range" in his book The New West.
  - An American photographer with this surname lamented "I killed the general with my camera" after capturing the point-blank execution of Nguyen Van Lem during the Tet Offensive.
  - Another artist with this surname published Born Free and Equal using images of Japanese internment at Manzanar and developed the Zone System with Fred Archer.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the photographer of Monolith, the Face of Half Dome. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Japanese American [prompt on Japanese or American; prompt on Asian American] (The first line clues Citizen 13660; the cemetery monument is seen in photographs by Toyo Miyatake and Ansel Adams.)
  - An artist of this ethnicity listens anxiously to the radio over breakfast with her brother in one entry from a series of pen and ink drawings. [PWR]
  - In one image, people of this ethnicity line up at a white cemetery monument, which "suggests eternity" in a depiction of it outlined against mountains. [PWR]
  - Girls of this ethnicity extend their arms in calisthenic exercises in another photo. [PWR]
  - An artist of this ethnicity published the graphic novel (*) Citizen 13660 . [PWR]
  - A flagpole rises between two rows of buildings meant for members of this ethnicity in a Dorothea Lange photo.
  - People of this ethnicity play baseball in an image from Born Free and Equal.
  - For 10 points, Ansel Adams, Mine Okubo, and Toyo Miyatake documented experiences of what ethnicity at internment camps like Manzanar? [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ansel Adams
  - One of this artist's works is dedicated to Evelyn Haas, and was inspired by another artist he met with during one of his ventures to compile illustrations for a Mary Austin book.
  - This man met Paul Strand during his documentation of Taos Pueblo culture, and he later founded a group developed from the John Reed Club with the help of Imogen Cunningham and Edward (*) Weston. [PWR]
  - The Hurter and Driffield actinograph inspired a system developed by this artist and Fred Archer which rated levels of exposure and brightness.
  - This artist was one of the creators of the Zone System and founded f/64 .
  - For 10 points, name this photographer who captured such natural scenes in Yosemite as Moon over Half Dome. [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 ACF Fall (2020) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ansel Adams
  - One work by this artist is dominated by a black sky, in which a small moon is visible over a fading sunset.
  - A wartime series by this artist includes images of women doing calisthenics.
  - This artist was inspired by Paul Strand to move away from the Pictorialist style, and he later developed the Zone system for composing photographs.
  - Along with Dorothea Lange, this photographer is famous for documenting life at the Japanese internment camp Manzanar.
  - This photographer of Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico was one of the founders of the group f/64 .
  - For 10 points, name this American photographer best known for his pictures of Yosemite National Park. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Adams [accept answers of Eddie, Robert, or Ansel Adams]
  - One artist with this surname depicted a desperate woman wrapped in a blanket cradling an ailing child on the deck of boat that had just been towed back out to sea by the Thai navy.
  - That work is found in the series "The Boat of No Smiles," which helped convince Carter to grant amnesty to the Boat People.
  - Post-industrial landscapes were included in 1975's New Topagraphics by Robert, who shares this surname with the aforementioned man who won the Pullitzer for a photo of a bound man in a flannel shirt next to a police chief, who holds a .38 revolver to his head.
  - "Saigon Execution" was captured by a photographer with this surname, also held by a man who took a trip with Cedric Wright and worked with Fred Archer to develop the sensitometric Zone System.
  - That man's memorable shots include one snapped after pulling off Route 84 near Hernandez, and another showing a monolithic stone formation in Yosemite.
  - For 10 points, name this photographic surname most famously held by Western photographer Ansel. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 ACF Fall (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ansel Adams
  - This artist created an image of a rose petal on a piece of driftwood after an inspirational meeting with Paul Strand.
  - Fred Archer helped this man develop a scale for EV levels that he called the Zone System.
  - One of his most famous works of art depicts the night sky above a cemetery.
  - Imogen Cunningham and Edward Weston helped him found the group f/64.
  - Albert Bender helped him publish his book Parmelian Prints of the High Sierras, which contained his photograph Monolith, the Face of Half Dome.
  - For 10 points name this photographer of Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico, and a bunch of photos of Yosemite National Park. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Rachel Ruysch specialized in detailed still-lifes of these objects, incorporating her upbringing as a scientist's daughter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flowers [accept specific types, like calla lilies]):
    Name these objects. Georgia O'Keeffe painted many cow skulls and, inspired by Paul Strand's close-cropping techniques, these objects, which Alfred Stieglitz claimed resembled vaginas despite O'Keeffe's vehement objections.
  Part 2 (ans: f/64 ("f-stop 64") (The unnamed photographer is Ansel Adams, who developed the Zone System with Fred Archer.)):
    Imogen Cunningham, a member of this group, took close-up photographs of magnolias. Another member of this group photographed a rose on driftwood and collaborated with Fred Archer to codify levels of brightness.
  Part 3 (ans: photograms [accept cyanotypes; anti-prompt (ask, "Can you be less specific?") on rayographs]):
    Anna Atkins published a botanical guide to algae featuring these "cameraless" images. Lucia Moholy ("MO-hoy") and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy ("MO-hoy-NAHJ") created these images by placing objects on photosensitive paper and treating them with light.

[B2] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This photograph was said by its creator to contain an "inclining funnel" although this is actually a mast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Steerage):
    Name this photograph taken during a trip by its photographer aboard the SS Kaiser Wilhelm II.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Stieglitz):
    This collaborator of Edward Steichen and founder of the magazine Camera Work photographed The Steerage.
  Part 3 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    In 1936, Stieglitz hosted an exhibition for the work of this other artist who photographed many landmarks in Yosemite National Park, including Half Dome.

[B3] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Art consultant David Hulme has warned that this photographer's works have no secondary market value, as they artificially inflate demand to take advantage of inexperienced collectors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Lik):
    Name this landscape photographer, whose claim to have sold the most expensive photograph ever by selling Phantom for $6.5 million has never been independently confirmed.
  Part 2 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    This rather better-regarded earlier landscape photographer created the collection The Parmelian Prints of the High Sierras. Along with Fred Archer, this photographer designed a system that categorised images from zero to ten, based on their black-and-white contrast.
  Part 3 (ans: canyons):
    Lik's Phantom was shot in one of these geographical features named Antelope in Arizona. Unlike his predecessors, Adams focused on transient phenomena such as light when photographing the Grand one of these geographical features.

[B4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A photographer in one of these locations built his own camera and captured a photo of three boys staring through a barbed wire fence. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japanese internment camps [accept relocation centers; accept answers mentioning where Japanese people were sent during World War II; prompt on Manzanar by asking "what type of location was it?"]):
    Name these locations that include the site photographed for the collection Born Free and Equal. An American flag rises above rows of dusty cabins in a photo from one of these locations taken by Dorothea Lange.
  Part 2 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    Born Free and Equal is a collection by this American photographer who co-founded the group f/64 ("f-stop-64") and devised the Zone System. A moon rises over the Half Dome rock formation in one of many photos this artist took at Yosemite.
  Part 3 (ans: playing baseball [prompt on sports by asking "what sport?"; prompt on batting or catching by asking "what game are those activities a part of?"]):
    Inspired by Adams's photos of people performing this activity at Manzanar, Mike Mandel invited Adams and 133 other famous photographers to pose like this activity's participants. Matt Miller Kandle and Harold Warp captured two different angles of a man allegedly pointing to his left before performing this activity.

[B5] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man founded the magazine Camera Work and created the art gallery 291. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred Stieglitz):
    Name this Photo-Secessionist photographer whose works include Winter - Fifth Avenue and The Terminal.
  Part 2 (ans: The Steerage):
    This most famous photograph by Stieglitz depicts several lower-class men and women on a ship going from New York to Bremen.
  Part 3 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    In 1936, Stieglitz hosted one of the first exhibitions of work by this other American photographer. He photographed Half Dome and several other landmarks in Yosemite National Park.

[B6] 2018 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A Richard Harrington photograph used in an exhibition organized by this man shows an Inuit mother touching noses with her child in an igloo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    Name this man who organized a photography exhibition titled The Family of Man, which toured the world after its first show at the MoMA and remains the most viewed photography exhibition ever with over 9 million viewers.
  Part 2 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    This photographer's picture of a man with his back to the camera gazing over terraced rice fields in Sumatra was included in The Family of Man. A photograph of a winding staircase and a bicyclist appears in a photography book by this man.
  Part 3 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    One section of The Family of Man consisted of photos of folk families interspersed with large landscapes, including this man's Mount Williamson. This photographer is best known for his landscape photos of Yosemite.

[B7] 2018 Delta Burke (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer was part of the f/64 [f stop sixty-four] group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    With Fred Archer, what photographer developed the Zone System to standardize exposure as illustrated in his first book Taos Pueblo?
  Part 2 (ans: Yosemite):
    Ansel Adams is best known for photographs like "Moon and Half Dome" taken in this California National Park.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Stieglitz):
    In Taos, Adams befriended Georgia O'Keefe and this photographer, her husband, who helped found the 291 Gallery and curated the Armory Show.

[B8] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At this location, Judy Dater took a photograph parodying Thomas Hart Benton's painting Persephone. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yosemite National Park [prompt on a park; prompt on California]):
    Name this specific setting of that photograph, in which the elderly Imogen Cunningham peeps at the nude model Twinka Thiebaud (tee-BOH) standing behind a tree.
  Part 2 (ans: Group f/64 (F-sixty-four) [or F-stop Sixty-Four]):
    Cunningham was a member of this group of San Francisco-based photographers, alongside Willard Van Dyke and Edward Weston. Their name refers to an aperture setting on a large formal camera.
  Part 3 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    The nude photo of Twinka Thiebaud was taken at a workshop organized by this legendary photographer and member of Group f/64. He took many pictures of Yosemite National Park and captured a famous shot of Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico.

[B9] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some American photographers for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This photographer captured the misery and human cost of the 1930's Dust Bowl with her photograph of Florence Owens Thompson, "Migrant Mother."
  Part 2 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    While not known for taking pictures of human subjects, this photographer detailed the life of Japanese-Americans in internment camps in his book Born Free and Equal.
  Part 3 (ans: Diane Arbus):
    A boy with a strained face clutches a hand grenade in the best known work of this photographer famous for capturing the social outcasts of New York City.

[B10] 2014 Delta Burke (2014) | Diff: 6 | Geography
     Leadin: The book Born Free and Equal contains photographs by this man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    Name this member of Group f/64 whose photos include Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico.
  Part 2 (ans: Yosemite):
    Adams took a photograph titled Monolith, the Face of Half Dome in this national park located in California, which is also home to El Capitan and Bridalveil Fall.
  Part 3 (ans: Manzanar):
    The book Born Free and Equal includes a photograph of Richard Kobayashi, a farmer with cabbages, who was interned at this California relocation center during World War II.

[B11] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Mist covers the background of one photograph taken at this location, "Clearing Winter Storm." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yosemite National Park):
    Name this area in California, the setting of the photograph "Monolith." A shadow covers much of the right side of another photograph taken here, "Moon and Half Dome."
  Part 2 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    The aforementioned photos were shot by this American photographer, who also captured a Wyoming national park in "The Tetons and Snake River." He captured the moon rising over Hernandez, New Mexico in another photo.
  Part 3 (ans: Group f/64):
    Along with Willard van Dyke, Adams founded this photographic group based out of San Francisco. Edward Weston was a member of this group, whose work often depicted the American West.

[B12] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some photographers who displayed social injustices of their day:
  Part 1 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    This photographer was invited by Ralph Merritt to take such photographs as Tom Kobayashi, Landscape, South Fields and Pleasure Park to showcase conditions in Manzanar, which he turned into the book Born Free and Equal.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    She highlighted the effects of the Great Depression on the poor in such photographs as Waiting for Relief Checks, taken in Calipatria, and Migrant Mother.
  Part 3 (ans: John Filo):
    This man is best known for his Pulitzer-winning photograph of Mary Ann Vecchio screaming out at the shooting of Jeffrey Miller, taken while he was a student at Kent State.
