=== STOCK CLUES: Howard Hanson ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Howard Hanson <SA>
  - Before Allen Forte, this composer introduced an early method of set theory in his treatise Harmonic Materials of Modern Music. [PWR]
  - He's not Vaughan Williams, but this man set three ocean-themed Walt Whitman poems in his seventh and last symphony.
  - In the 1920s and 1930s, this man hosted an NBC radio series highlighting works by American composers, titled Pioneers in Music. [PWR]
  - A love duet between Marigold and Bradford is followed by a (*) "Maypole Dance" in a suite derived from this composer's only opera. [PWR]
  - This composer decided not to sue 20th Century Fox for the unauthorized use of a D-flat major symphony by him in the credits of Alien.
  - The Interlochen Arts Camp theme is taken from that symphony by this composer of Merry Mount, who served for forty years as head of the Eastman School of Music.
  - For 10 points, name this American composer of a "Romantic" Second Symphony. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During one of the final scenes of Boss Baby, Hans Zimmer and Steve Mazzaro pulled from a symphony by this composer whose first movement became known as the "Interlochen theme." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Howard Hanson):
    Name this American composer whose 1930 Romantic Symphony, which was commissioned by Serge Koussevitzky, has appeared in numerous films.
  Part 2 (ans: Alien):
    Hanson was displeased that his Romantic Symphony was used for the closing credits of this film. Acidic blood bursts from a creature on an unconscious man's face during surgery in this film.
  Part 3 (ans: E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial):
    John Williams noted that the Romantic Symphony inspired his score for this Steven Spielberg film about the boy Elliott, played by Henry Thomas, who helps the title creature find his way home.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This theorist established the concept of isometric sonority in his 1960 textbook Harmonic Materials of Modern Music, which laid the foundations of musical set theory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Howard Hanson):
    Name this theorist and composer, who was also the director of the Eastman School of Music from 1924 to 1964.
  Part 2 (ans: Symphony no. 2 [or second]):
    Hanson is better known for composing tonal music such as his symphony of this number, nicknamed "Romantic." Mahler's symphony of this number is known as the "Resurrection."
  Part 3 (ans: Interlochen Arts Camp):
    Hanson partly wrote his Second Symphony while teaching at this northern Michigan arts camp, which has come under recent scrutiny for a lodge that Jeffrey Epstein built on its campus.

[B3] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer proposed a "lyrical, haunting" theme from his Second Symphony, originally written for the 50th anniversary of the Boston Symphony, as the theme for the Interlochen Arts Camp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Howard Hanson):
    Name this American composer of that symphony, which was nicknamed "Romantic."
  Part 2 (ans: "Dance of the Hours"):
    This "dance" from Amilcare Ponchielli's opera La Gioconda, originally a ballet interlude at a party, was set to camp-inspired lyrics by comedian Allan Sherman in the song "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh."
  Part 3 (ans: "Arirang"):
    John Barnes Chance, composer of a Blue Lake Overture for a music camp in Michigan, also wrote variations on this pentatonic folksong for concert band, which he first heard as a member of the Eighth U.S. Army Band.

[B4] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first of this conductor's ubiquitous points of performance, printed on the inside of countless music folders, is "LISTEN!" in all capital letters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Fennell [fih-NELL] [or Frederick Putnam Fennell]):
    Name this concert band conductor and founder of the Eastman Wind Ensemble, which he led in a landmark recording of Percy Grainger's Lincolnshire Posy on the album Winds in Hi-Fi.
  Part 2 (ans: Howard Hanson [or Howard Harold Hanson]):
    Fennell's colleagues at Eastman included this composer, whose Chorale and Alleluia Fennell discussed in A Conductor's Interpretive Analysis of Masterworks for Band. This composer of a "Nordic" First Symphony wrote a Second Symphony nicknamed "Romantic," which includes the "Interlochen theme."
  Part 3 (ans: Lohengrin):
    Fennell's Masterworks for Band also discussed Elsa's Procession to the Cathedral, an arranged excerpt from this Richard Wagner opera about a swan knight.
