=== STOCK CLUES: Hanson ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 62 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 26 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: La Chanson de Roland [or The Song of Roland]
  - A man in this work dreams about being bitten by a bear and mauled by a leopard. [PWR]
  - The Bodleian  Library holds a manuscript of this work that ends several of its stanzas with the inscription "AOI." A character in this work swears on his sword Murgleis  to betray his godson while meeting with the king Marsile . [PWR]
  - In this work, a character attempts to destroy his sword by striking a stone, but he breaks the (*) stone instead. [PWR]
  - Thierry  defeats Pinabel in a trial by combat in this work, leading to the execution of Ganelon.
  - The title character of this chanson de geste  blows his oliphant horn so hard that he bursts his blood vessels.
  - For 10 points, the Battle of Roncevaux  is the setting of what French medieval epic poem titled for a nephew and paladin of Charlemagne? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Mascarene Islands [or Islas Mascarenhas; accept Mauritius; acceptIle de Reunion or its former name Ile de Bourbon] (Mauritius is the setting of Paul et Virginie and birthplace of Le Clezio; everything else is Reunnionais; Leconte de Lisle doesn't have any actual content represented and the second sentence refers to de Parny's Chansons Madecasses)
  - Note to players: Even though not all clues directly point to them, to specific subsets of this tossup's answerline will also be accepted outright instead of anti-prompted.
  - Freme tries to escape slavery with his white lover Marie in a work set in this archipelago by Louis Timogene Houat [ti-moh-ZHEN oo-WAH].
  - With a collection [emphasize] titled for elsewhere, a poet born in [emphasize] this archipelago warns "Beware the whites, inhabitants of the shore" but notes that "the rain fought for us" in poems attacking colonialism in the voice of the chief Ampanani.
  - A title character of a novel set in this (*) archipelago elects to die in a shipwreck because swimming to shore would require taking off her clothes. [PWR]
  - The classic romance Paul et [ay] Virginie is set in this archipelago.
  - One of these islands was the birthplace of a poet Pushkin called "my master," Evariste de Parny, and of the influential Parnassian Leconte de Lisle [LEEL]. [PWR]
  - A Nobel Laureate from one of these islands fictionalized his research into his family's involvement in slavery in it in his most recent novel, Alma. [PWR]
  - That author from this (*) archipelago is best-known for a "puzzle novel" centered on the amnesiac rapist Adam Pollo.
  - For 10 points, name this archipelago that includes the birthplace of the author of Le Proces-verbal [PRO-say vair-BAL], J.M.G. [GIVE]
  - Le Clezio.

[T3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]
  - A character in this work plucks a red apple from a tree and gives it to a relative, declaring: "I present you with the crowns of all kings." Assonant decasyllabic verses form most of the stanzas of this work, some of which in the Bodleian manuscript end in the inscription "AOI." A character in this work attempts to destroy an indestructible sword containing relics like a piece of Mary's cloak by (*) striking a rock with it, but ends up hiding it under his corpse instead. [PWR]
  - A character in this poem is executed by having his body torn apart by four horses after Thierry defeats his friend Pinabel in a trial by combat.
  - On the advice of Archbishop Turpin, the title character of this poem summons help by blowing an oliphant horn until his temples burst.
  - For 10 points, what chanson de geste chronicles a nephew of Charlemagne's heroics at the Battle of Roncevaux Pass? [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]
  - A character in this work wields a weapon whose "color changed thirty times a day" and is said to contain the spearhead that pierced Jesus Christ within its pommel. [PWR]
  - That character in this work survives despite having part of his head cut off during a duel with the emir of Babylon, and later kidnaps a woman who changes her name to Juliana after converting to Christianity. [PWR]
  - This work ends with divine intervention allowing (*) Thierry to defeat Pinabel in a trial by combat, which results in a traitor being torn apart by horses. [PWR]
  - After initially refusing, the title character of this work blows his oliphant horn to call for aid in the Battle of Roncevaux Pass.
  - For 10 points, name this medieval epic about the death of the title paladin and nephew of Charlemagne. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Roland [or Orlando; accept The Song of Roland or Le Chanson de Roland]
  - This character advises that another character not accept a gift of seven-hundred camels and a thousand falcons in a passage that mysteriously ends with the letters "A-O-I." After stumbling upon a hill with four marble steps, this character accidentally shatters a rock while trying to break a sword.
  - A man with a white beard grants this character aid from Count Gautier and a bow for protection.
  - This character gives his right glove to the archangel Gabriel upon his death, which comes shortly after he witnesses the death of the archbishop Turpin.
  - After he is betrayed by his stepfather Ganelon, this character dies when his temples burst from blowing on his horn, the oliphant.
  - For 10 points, name this paladin of Charlemagne whose "Song" titles a medieval French epic. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: chanson [orsong; orchansons de geste; acceptChansons de Saisnes; or Song of Roland; or Le Chanson de Roland]
  - Note to players: either the original language term or the English translation is acceptable.
  - A story first told in a work in this genre is the origin story for a magical horse named Bayard, who can understand human speech and carry all four of Aymon's sons at once. [PWR]
  - In a poem in this genre, Jean Bodel divided medieval Romances into three "matters;" the "Matter of France" is itself subdivided into three cycles of poems in this genre. [PWR]
  - In a poem in this genre, Pinabel challenges Thierry to a duel after the latter rules that (*) Ganelon had betrayed his leader. [PWR]
  - Laisses are the stanzas in this poetic genre.
  - In a poem in this genre, the Saracen Marcile is defeated after the protagonist blows his temples out by blowing an oliphant horn to summon Charlemagne.
  - For 10 points, name this medieval French poetic genre, which titles a poem about Roland. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Howard Hanson <SA>
  - Before Allen Forte, this composer introduced an early method of set theory in his treatise Harmonic Materials of Modern Music. [PWR]
  - He's not Vaughan Williams, but this man set three ocean-themed Walt Whitman poems in his seventh and last symphony.
  - In the 1920s and 1930s, this man hosted an NBC radio series highlighting works by American composers, titled Pioneers in Music. [PWR]
  - A love duet between Marigold and Bradford is followed by a (*) "Maypole Dance" in a suite derived from this composer's only opera. [PWR]
  - This composer decided not to sue 20th Century Fox for the unauthorized use of a D-flat major symphony by him in the credits of Alien.
  - The Interlochen Arts Camp theme is taken from that symphony by this composer of Merry Mount, who served for forty years as head of the Eastman School of Music.
  - For 10 points, name this American composer of a "Romantic" Second Symphony. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]
  - A version of this work is the best known work by Konrad der Pflaffe, and it regularly contains the mysterious three letter exclamation "AOI." A character in this work has a dream of a boar biting his right arm. [PWR]
  - In this work, Oliver criticizes a character for not performing a certain action because it means never seeing Oliver's sister again; that action, when performed, causes a character's (*) temples to burst. [PWR]
  - This work's protagonist is the subject of Ludovico Ariosto's best known work, and this work is also the best known part of the Matter of France.
  - This poem's protagonist blows his oliphant horn after being ambushed by Muslims in the Battle of Roncevaux ["ROHN-suh-voh"] Pass.
  - For 10 points, name this medieval story about the nephew of Charlemagne and his death. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]
  - This work features a fountain that makes the princess of Cathay look like an ugly old woman, as well as one that causes its protagonist to lose his memory. [PWR]
  - One character in this work is indignant when he is arrested and held hostage by cooks. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of this work lives with his mother and a monk in a cave, but Bertha later has a joyful reunion with her brother, who had once been furious at Milon for running off with her. [PWR]
  - (*) Bramimonde is kidnapped in this work, and its villain is torn apart by horses after his friend Pinabel loses a duel to Thierry.
  - The Saracen Marsile is defeated in this work after the title owner of the sword Durandal is betrayed by his stepfather Ganelon; that hero blows an oliphant so hard his temples burst, dying at the Battle of Roncevaux Pass.
  - For 10 points, name this chanson de geste about the titular nephew of Charlemagne. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]
  - The protagonist of Graham Greene's The Confidential Agent is an expert on this poem.
  - The protagonist of this poem comforts an archbishop, who dies while trying to fetch him some water.
  - A character in this poem decides to name his sword "Precious" when he hears that an enemy king has also named his sword.
  - One character in this poem rudely lets a glove drop after being chosen as a messenger, and the title character offers a glove to God when he is dying.
  - This poem ends with a villain being torn apart by horses after Pinabel loses a trial by combat.
  - The title character of this poem is betrayed by his stepfather Ganelon, leading to an ambush at Roncevaux Pass.
  - For 10 points, name this chanson de geste about a hero in Charlemagne's army. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about French written works with falsified attributions, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Aleksandr Pushkin [or Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin] (The story is "The Queen of Spades.")):
    Prosper Merimee had to tell this author that the "Illyric poetry" book La Guzla was a hoax after this poet began to translate it. Merimee translated a story by this author in which Hermann learns a gambling secret from a dead countess.
  Part 2 (ans: The Songs of Bilitis [or Les Chansons de Bilitis]):
    A fictional German archaeologist "unearthed" this collection, which attempted to lend credence to its supposed Greek origins via sections titled for Pamphylia and Mytilene. Pierre Louys ("loo-EESE") wrote this collection of lesbian poetry.
  Part 3 (ans: Blaise Pascal):
    In the 1860s, Denis Vrain-Lucas forged over 20,000 documents before being caught trying to dupe the French Academy of Sciences into thinking that gravity was first discovered by this author of Pensees ("pawn-SAY").

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Claudin de Sermisy and Clement Janequin were instrumental in the development of the Parisian style of these pieces. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chansons):
    Name these secular polyphonic French songs, which in the early Renaissance were combined in a genre with motets. Generally, early examples of these songs were in one of three formes fixes.
  Part 2 (ans: virelai):
    In the early Renaissance, chansons tended to be in the form of a ballade, rondeau, or this form exemplified by "Douce Dame Jolie." This form consisted of three stanzas, before and after which is a refrain.
  Part 3 (ans: tenor):
    Many motet-chansons had the two upper voices sing a secular text in French while either a contra or this deeper vocal range, pitched higher than baritone, sang a sacred Latin text.

[B3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem, this man cruelly tries to kill a horse after its owner murders this man's nephew in a brawl over a chess game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlemagne [or Carolus Magnus; or Charles I; prompt on Charles] (The first poem is The Four Sons of Aymon.)):
    Name this man who makes good on several drunken boasts to his rival Hugo in a poem titled for his "Voyage."At the end of a long poem, this man pulls his beard and laments, "how full of toil is my life!" upon being visited in his room by the angel Gabriel.
  Part 2 (ans: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]):
    Charlemagne and his men are valorized in medieval geste du roi ("zhest doo rwah"), such as this 11th-century poem whose title character wields the sword Durendal and an oliphant horn.
  Part 3 (ans: Oberon):
    In a geste du roi, this character helps Huon of Bordeaux atone for killing Charlemagne's son. Christoph Martin Wieland wrote an epic about this character, who in a play has a jealous dispute with his wife over an Indian boy.

[B4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Short videos by this man include helpful tutorials on how to hold an umbrella and how to eat a pear. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Hanson [accept WilliamHansonEtiquette]):
    Name this etiquette expert who, in 2023, released the book Help I Sexted My Boss along with Jordan North.
  Part 2 (ans: port [or vihno de Porto; accept Ruby Port or Tawny Port]):
    One of Hanson's online videos discusses that, after a formal meal in the UK, the decanter for this type of fortified wine must always be passed to the left. This drink often comes in Ruby and Tawny varieties.
  Part 3 (ans: The Bishop of Norwich [prompt on partial answer]):
    If a diner forgets to pass the port around, then other diners may passive-agressively ask if they know this person. The tradition stems from Lewis Bagot allegedly keeping all the port for himself when he attended a dinner at Christ's College, Cambridge in 1785 whilst he held this position.

[B5] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During one of the final scenes of Boss Baby, Hans Zimmer and Steve Mazzaro pulled from a symphony by this composer whose first movement became known as the "Interlochen theme." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Howard Hanson):
    Name this American composer whose 1930 Romantic Symphony, which was commissioned by Serge Koussevitzky, has appeared in numerous films.
  Part 2 (ans: Alien):
    Hanson was displeased that his Romantic Symphony was used for the closing credits of this film. Acidic blood bursts from a creature on an unconscious man's face during surgery in this film.
  Part 3 (ans: E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial):
    John Williams noted that the Romantic Symphony inspired his score for this Steven Spielberg film about the boy Elliott, played by Henry Thomas, who helps the title creature find his way home.

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A Syriac poem about this character states that an impenetrable gate commonly attributed to him was used to keep out Gog and Magog. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; or Alexandros III; accept Alexander Romance; accept Syriac Alexander Legend]):
    Name this character whose exploits, such as sleeping with the queen of the Amazons, were the focus of a medieval genre inspired by an epic attributed to Pseudo-Callisthenes ("kah-LISS-theh-neez").
  Part 2 (ans: John Barbour):
    A Scots version of the Alexander Romance has been dubiously attributed to this early Scottish poet. This 14th-century poet used Scots for a narrative poem about Robert the Bruce called the Brus.
  Part 3 (ans: chansons de geste ("shawn-sohn deh guest") [or songs of heroic deeds; accept the Song of Roland or Le Chanson de Roland ("shawn-sohn deh ro-lawn"); prompt on epics]):
    The influential Roman d'Alexandre ("roh-mawn dah-lex-and-reh") tells the Alexander story in this genre of French poetry. In another poem in this genre, the protagonist's head explodes after he blows his oliphant horn.

[B7] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This theorist established the concept of isometric sonority in his 1960 textbook Harmonic Materials of Modern Music, which laid the foundations of musical set theory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Howard Hanson):
    Name this theorist and composer, who was also the director of the Eastman School of Music from 1924 to 1964.
  Part 2 (ans: Symphony no. 2 [or second]):
    Hanson is better known for composing tonal music such as his symphony of this number, nicknamed "Romantic." Mahler's symphony of this number is known as the "Resurrection."
  Part 3 (ans: Interlochen Arts Camp):
    Hanson partly wrote his Second Symphony while teaching at this northern Michigan arts camp, which has come under recent scrutiny for a lodge that Jeffrey Epstein built on its campus.

[B8] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: At this man's trial, divine intervention protects a champion of justice from a blow on the cheek and helps him kill a loyal knight from the castle Sorence. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ganelon):
    Name this man. This man argues that his actions were motivated by revenge and not treason before he is executed along with thirty of his relatives.
  Part 2 (ans: Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]):
    After exacting revenge on his stepson, Ganelon is executed in this epic poem about a Frankish battle against Muslim forces. That stepson dies in this poem from blowing his oliphant.
  Part 3 (ans: sword [accept descriptors like magic sword or angelic sword]):
    Before he dies Roland tries to destroy this type of item, but throws it in a poisoned stream once it proves to be unbreakable. One item of this type, Joyeuse, was described as changing color thirty times a day.

[B9] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer proposed a "lyrical, haunting" theme from his Second Symphony, originally written for the 50th anniversary of the Boston Symphony, as the theme for the Interlochen Arts Camp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Howard Hanson):
    Name this American composer of that symphony, which was nicknamed "Romantic."
  Part 2 (ans: "Dance of the Hours"):
    This "dance" from Amilcare Ponchielli's opera La Gioconda, originally a ballet interlude at a party, was set to camp-inspired lyrics by comedian Allan Sherman in the song "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh."
  Part 3 (ans: "Arirang"):
    John Barnes Chance, composer of a Blue Lake Overture for a music camp in Michigan, also wrote variations on this pentatonic folksong for concert band, which he first heard as a member of the Eighth U.S. Army Band.

[B10] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After the naive dance "Jota" ("HO-ta") and the lullaby "Nana," this set ends with the melismatic lament "Polo," infused with the cante jondo ("HONE-doh") and strumming of Andalusian flamenco. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seven Spanish Folksongs [or Seven Popular Spanish Songs; or Sept Chansons populaires espagnoles; or Siete Canciones populares espanolas; accept Suite popular espanola or Suite populaire espagnole or Popular Spanish Suite; prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this set of brief love songs from regions such as Murcia, Aragon, and Asturias arranged by Manuel de Falla ("deh FAH-yah"). Miguel Llobet ("yoo-BET"), Pawel Kochanski ("PA-vel ko-HAHN-skee"), and Maurice Marechal ("mah-ray-SHAHL") later arranged suites of them for guitar, violin, and cello.
  Part 2 (ans: Luciano Berio):
    This Italian modernist orchestrated Falla's cycle and set Sicilian, Armenian, and Azerbaijani Folk Songs for his wife Cathy Berberian ("ber-BAIR-yin"). His musique concrete piece Thema (Omaggio a Joyce) altered tape recordings of her reading Ulysses, and his Sequenza III tested her vocal limits with skittish nonsense syllables.
  Part 3 (ans: Occitan ("OCK-sit-in") [or lenga d'oc; or langue d'oc; accept Old Occitan or Medieval Occitan; prompt on Provencal or Auvergnat]):
    Berio's Folk Songs and Canteloube's ("con-tuh-LOOB's") Chants d'Auvergne ("shawn doh-VAIRN-yuh") both set "Lo Fiolaire" ("lo fyo-LYE-ray"), a song in this language. Ravel's Folk Songs set diverse languages like Yiddish, Galician, and Limousin ("lee-moo-ZAN"), an archaic dialect of this language sung by medieval troubadours in Southern France.

[B11] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a Moroccan woman named Wafa takes care of the child Alphonse, whom she imagines growing up and hiring a prostitute in the seedy Casablanca motel where she herself used to give massages. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Perfect Nanny [or Chanson douce; accept Lullaby]):
    Name this 2016 novel by French-Moroccan writer Leila Slimani, which begins "The baby is dead." In it, the professional couple Paul and Myriam hire Louise to take care of their children.
  Part 2 (ans: Michel Houellebecq [well-BECK]):
    In the novel Submission, this author depicted the election of charismatic Muslim Brotherhood candidate Mohammed Ben Abbes to the French presidency from the perspective of the apathetic literature professor Francois. He also wrote The Elementary Particles.
  Part 3 (ans: The Stranger [or L'Etranger; or The Outsider]):
    Algerian writer Kamel Daoud's novel The Meursault Investigation is written from the perspective of Harun, the brother of the Arab shot by the protagonist of this Albert Camus novel.

[B12] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Early examples of this genre tended to use decasyllables, while later examples use alexandrines and introduce end rhyme. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chanson de geste [shaw-saw duh ZHEHST] [prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this genre of poetry that emerged during the 11th century. Many poems in this genre follow the adventures of William of Gellone and his nephew Vivien, who gets massacred at the fictional battle of Aliscans.
  Part 2 (ans: TheSong of Roland [or Chanson de Roland]):
    This early chanson de geste follows a nephew of Charlemagne who dies blowing his horn at the battle of Roncevaux Pass.
  Part 3 (ans: a king being betrayed by his vassals [or rebellions, or treason or anything similar]):
    Chansons de geste were traditionally divided into three cycles, including poems about William of Gellone and poems about Charlemagne. It's not going on crusade, but the third cycle consists of poems that include this plot element; a description is fine.

[B13] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Orlando Consort performed a groundbreaking 1999 recording of fourteen of these pieces by the 14th-century composer Guillaume de Machaut ("ghee-YOME duh mah-SHOW"), including "Tant doucement" ("tawn doose-MAWN"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chansons [or cansos; or cancons or canco; prompt on songs]):
    Give the original-language term for these musical pieces, whose three standard formes fixes ("form feeks"), or fixed forms, were the ballade ("buh-LAHD"), rondeau, and virelai ("veer-LAY").
  Part 2 (ans: troubadours [or trouveres; or trobadors]):
    These wandering Occitan ("OCK-sit-in") poets, who created many songs of love, also performed grand chansons ("grawn shawn-SAWN") for the courts of many medieval French nobles.
  Part 3 (ans: Maurice Ravel (The suite is Le tombeau de Couperin.)):
    This 20th-century neoclassical composer's only a capella piece, Trois Chansons ("twah shawn-SAWN"), was written in response to the outbreak of World War I. He commemorated six friends who died in the same war in a suite styled after the Baroque tombeau genre.

[B14] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Gaston Paris called this poem the "voice of the nation" in a public lecture urging young men to emulate its heroes and fight the Franco-Prussian War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Song of Roland [or the Chanson de Roland]):
    The title character blows the horn Oliphant so hard that his temples fucking explode in the climactic scene of what poem?
  Part 2 (ans: Turoldus):
    Because the oldest surviving manuscript of The Song of Roland in Oxford's Bodleian Library mentions this person in its last line, critics have long debated whether he was the author or performer of the poem.
  Part 3 (ans: parataxis):
    This literary technique, in which short independent clauses are placed side by side without using subordinating conjunctions to explicitly link them, is used extensively throughout The Song of Roland, such as with the lines: "Roland is dead, his soul with God in Heaven / The emperor arrives in Roncevals."

[B15] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: John Dunstable and Leonel Power established the standard practice of writing these pieces as coherent, complete works. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: masses [or Mass ordinary; or Ordinary of the Mass; or polyphonic mass cycles]):
    Name these compositions that set a group of liturgical texts, including the Kyrie and Credo, to music.
  Part 2 (ans: Guillaume de Machaut (gee-yohm de ma-shoh)):
    The first standalone setting of the Mass ordinary is generally considered to be La Messe de Nostre Dame by this French composer of the 14th century. His other compositions include secular songs such as "Douce dame jolie" (dou-SEH da-MEH zho-lee).
  Part 3 (ans: virelai [accept chansons balladees]):
    "Douce dame jolie" is in this French song form, consisting of three stanzas each preceded and followed by a refrain. Along with the ballade and rondeau, it is one of the forms fixes.

[B16] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about a Castilian epic poem:
  Part 1 (ans: The Poem of the Cid [or Cantar de Mio Cid, prompt on El Cid]):
    This work tells of the exile of Rodrigo Diaz, and of his later exploits during the Reconquista.
  Part 2 (ans: Burgos):
    El Cid was born in Vivar, a town in this province located in Castile and Leon. Its Monastery of Santo Domingo de Silos houses the oldest known paper document in the West.
  Part 3 (ans: Cantar de gesta [or chanson de geste]):
    The Poem of the Cid is a work in this mediaeval tradition, which literally means "song of heroic deeds." Other works in this genre include the poem of Fernan Gonzalez and the Cantar de los Siete Infantes de Lara.

[B17] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first of this conductor's ubiquitous points of performance, printed on the inside of countless music folders, is "LISTEN!" in all capital letters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Fennell [fih-NELL] [or Frederick Putnam Fennell]):
    Name this concert band conductor and founder of the Eastman Wind Ensemble, which he led in a landmark recording of Percy Grainger's Lincolnshire Posy on the album Winds in Hi-Fi.
  Part 2 (ans: Howard Hanson [or Howard Harold Hanson]):
    Fennell's colleagues at Eastman included this composer, whose Chorale and Alleluia Fennell discussed in A Conductor's Interpretive Analysis of Masterworks for Band. This composer of a "Nordic" First Symphony wrote a Second Symphony nicknamed "Romantic," which includes the "Interlochen theme."
  Part 3 (ans: Lohengrin):
    Fennell's Masterworks for Band also discussed Elsa's Procession to the Cathedral, an arranged excerpt from this Richard Wagner opera about a swan knight.

[B18] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer satirized narratives about courtly love in his "Le voir dit," but played them more straight in songs like "Puis qu'en oubli" and "Douce dame jolie." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Guillaume de Machaut [or Guillaume de Machault]):
    Name this medieval French ars nova composer best known for being the earliest single composer to set the Ordinary of the Mass.
  Part 2 (ans: chansons):
    Machaut helped develop the three formes fixes -- the rondeau, the ballade, and the virelai -- used in these lyrical French songs. The Song of Roland is an example of one de geste for which the music has not survived.
  Part 3 (ans: Notre Dame de Paris [or Nostre Dame; or Our Lady of Paris]):
    Machaut's mass is dedicated to this two word concept in Christianity. A school of polyphonic composers led by Leonin and Perotin worked at an institution named for this Christian concept.

[B19] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: These figures would often compose partimen, a style of verse in which a question would be posed and two of them would give an answer that fits the poem's meter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: troubadours [or troubaritzes]):
    Name these medieval poets, such as Aimeric de Belenoi and Peirol, who composed courtly poetry in Occitan.
  Part 2 (ans: jongleurs):
    Troubadours were often assisted by these French minstrels, who often performed acrobatics and recited great songs about the deeds of heroes.
  Part 3 (ans: chansons de geste [prompt on chansons]):
    These songs of heroic deeds were typically performed by jongleurs. They typically concerned the Matter of France and, examples include Fierabras and Huon of Bordeaux.

[B20] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes "masks and Bergamasks" that "strum lutes and dance, just a bit sad to be hidden beneath their fanciful disguise," and "reluctant to believe their happiness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Moonlight [or Clair de lune]):
    Name this poem that opens by stating that "our soul is like a landscape fantasy."
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Verlaine):
    "Moonlight" was written by this French Symbolist whose first collection was called Poemes saturniens. He is perhaps most famous for shooting his lover Arthur Rimbaud.
  Part 3 (ans: Autumn Song [or Chanson d'automn]):
    This poem by Verlaine was broadcast over radio to signal D-Day operations to the French Resistance. It opens by describing "the long sighs of the violins" during the title season.

[B21] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Some examples of this type of work are Que vous madame / In pace and A la mort / Monstra te esse matrem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: motet-chanson):
    Name this type of work in which the lowest voice sings a sacred text in Latin and the two upper voices sing a secular text. It is so named because it combines aspects of two other musical forms.
  Part 2 (ans: masses [or missa]):
    The earlier-mentioned examples of the motet-chanson were composed Josquin de Prez, who is also known for composing these settings of the ordinary of the Eucharist.
  Part 3 (ans: cantus firmus [or cantus firmi]):
    The motet-chanson is distinguished from a regular chanson because its lowest voice functions as one of these. These pre-existing melodies were used as the foundation of polyphonic compositions, and the most popular one used in masses was L'homme Arme.

[B22] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The titular character of this work dies when he attempts to call in reinforcements and blows a horn so hard that it causes his temples to explode. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Song of Roland (or Chanson de Roland)):
    Name this really old French heroic poem based on the Battle of Roncevaux Pass.
  Part 2 (ans: Ganelon):
    This character is Roland's spiteful stepfather. He betrays Roland's position to the army of Marsilla, allowing Marsilla's army to ambush the rear guard of Charlemagne's army.
  Part 3 (ans: Baligant):
    This character is the King of Babylon who meets Charlemagne's army after the defeat of his vassal Marsilla's men. Charlemagne is saved by the angel Gabriel when this man lays a blow on his head after they meet in battle.

[B23] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work was heavily influenced by its composer's position as an organist, and it notably omits the Dies Irae except for a small reference in the Libera Me. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Faure's Requiem in D minor):
    Name this sacred work by a French composer that notably omitted violins and woodwinds in its original formulation, before its composer rescored it for full orchestra, for some reason.
  Part 2 (ans: mass):
    Faure's other celebrated sacred work is his Messe Basse, a "low" example of these pieces. Generally, they're settings of the Latin liturgy and their first movement is a setting of the Kyrie eleison.
  Part 3 (ans: La bonne chanson):
    This nine-melodie song cycle by Faure was written for Emma Bardac after he fell in love with her. Like Faure's Cinq melodies "de Venise", it's based on Paul Verlaine's poetry and features recurring musical themes between songs.

[B24] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This poem's protagonist is betrayed by his stepfather Ganelon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Song of Roland [or La Chanson de Roland]):
    Name this Old French poem in which the title paladin of Charlemagne blows a horn to call for aid against the Saracens until his temples burst. It fictionalizes the battle of Roncesvalles.
  Part 2 (ans: chansons de geste):
    The Song of Roland is one of these Old French poems about heroic deeds, which preceded the more courtly poems of the troubadours.
  Part 3 (ans: Marsilla [or Marsille; or Marsilion]):
    This Saracen king, who rules from Saragossa, sends the pagan army to Roncesvalles. This ally of Babylon's emir Baligant loses a hand and his queen Bramimonde as Charlemagne avenges Roland's death.

[B25] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The lyrics of this song state that "I'm in love with" the title of this song "even though it hurts" because "I don't' care if I lose my mind." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Fairytale" [do not accept "Fairytales"]):
    Name this 2009 song by the Norwegian Alexander Rybak, which won an event that was held the next year in Oslo.
  Part 2 (ans: Eurovision Song Contest [or Concours Eurovision de la Chanson]):
    That contest, where Rybak put up the highest score in its history, was this one, where multiple countries' broadcasting consortiums select one song to enter. Ireland is the most successful country in this competition.
  Part 3 (ans: ABBA [or Bjorn, Benny, Agnetha, and Frida]):
    This band, which released the song "Fernando," won Eurovision in 1974. Another song of theirs urges you to "feel the beat from the tamborine."
