=== STOCK CLUES: Clifford Odets ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 27 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Clifford Odets
  - A play by this author that begins with the Taussig brothers printing leaflets about the American embargo of the Nazis contains the first use of the phrase "male chauvinism." A character created by this author proclaims that after his grandfather died, "I was born! [PWR]
  - I swear to God, I'm one week old!" This author's play Till the Day I Die was written to accompany a play in which one character states that his brother Sam joined the Navy and will probably go to Cuba, which is where (*) Hennie plans to go with Moe Axelrod in a different play by this author.
  - This author, who wrote about the struggles of the Berger family in a play set in the Bronx, also wrote a play whose seventh and final vignette ends after a body is found, leading Agate to lead a chant calling for a strike.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of Awake and Sing! and Waiting for Lefty. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Clifford Odets
  - A play by this author ends after Cleo Singer says she is looking for "a whole full world, with all the trimmings," rejecting both Mr. [PWR]
  - Prince and Ben Stark. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author advises his grandson to "fight so life shouldn't be printed on dollar bills." Miller punches Fayette after refusing to spy on Dr. [PWR]
  - Brenner in a play by this author whose seven "vignettes" are separated by blackouts. [PWR]
  - The unhappily- married Hennie runs off with Moe Axelrod at the end of a play by this author of (*) Rocket to the Moon in which Jacob jumps off a roof after his Enrico Caruso records are smashed by his daughter Bessie Berger. [PWR]
  - At the end of this man's first play, Agate eludes the boss Harry Fatt and leads angry cab drivers in a strike.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of Awake and Sing! and Waiting for Lefty. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Clifford Odets
  - In a play by this author, two characters share a kiss after a spontaneous whistling duet on a park bench.
  - The Coen brothers modeled Barton Fink on this playwright, who co-wrote the screenplay for the noir Sweet Smell of Success.
  - A woman created by this playwright tells her husband that their daughter has never even seen a grapefruit in a fight spurred by the repossession of their furniture.
  - This playwright's career faltered after he and Elia Kazan named each other to HUAC .
  - The protagonist breaks his hand, ruining his prospects as a violinist, in this author's play about the boxer Joe Bonaparte.
  - At the end of a play by this Group Theatre member, the revelation of the title character's death spurs a union of cab drivers to demand a strike.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of Golden Boy and Waiting for Lefty. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 QUARTET (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Clifford Odets
  - In a play by this author, a man tells a doctor, "Turn your gimlet eyes elsewhere" and scolds him for using the phrase "class distinction" before firing him from Ward C. [PWR]
  - A stenographer created by this author tells the actor Phil, "one dollar buys nine loaves of bread and one copy of The Communist Manifesto" after he is rejected by the director Grady, who casts to type. [PWR]
  - A play by this author includes a vignette where Irv yells at his daughter and (*) ) Florrie says, "Every princess in the Balkans is wearing [a dress] like this" when Sid picks her up for a date. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, Jacob kills himself and Bessie forces Hennie to marry the immigrant boarder Sam to save the Berger household.
  - A play by this author concludes with Agate shouting, "WE'RE STORMBIRDS OF THE WORKING-CLASS" and cab drivers chanting, "STRIKE, STRIKE, STRIKE!!!" For 10 points, what playwright wrote Awake and Sing! and Waiting for Lefty? [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Clifford Odets
  - Stanley Shriner Hoff blackmails the protagonist of one play by this author to renew his acting contract, which he tries to refuse in order to save his marriage with Marion. [PWR]
  - In another play by him, the protagonist falls in love with Lorna Moon, the girlfriend of his (+) boxing manager, which he took up to earn money to pursue his dream of being a violinist. [PWR]
  - This creator of the actor Charlie Castle in the play The Big (*) Knife wrote a play punctuated by blackouts in which Harry Fatt pacifies angry workers until the arrival of the title character, who Agate announces has been shot before quoting the Communist manifesto in order to incite angry tax workers to strike. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, identify this author of The Golden Boy and Waiting for Lefty. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about legendary acting teacher Lee Strasberg, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: method acting [or the Method]):
    Lee Strasberg pioneered this type of acting, in which actors draw upon "affective memories" to help them channel their character.
  Part 2 (ans: Clifford Odets (The latter play is Golden Boy.)):
    Strasberg's Group Theatre produced many of this author's plays, including Paradise Lost and Clash by Night. In another play by him, Joe Bonaparte gives up his dream of being a violinist and becomes a ferocious boxer instead.
  Part 3 (ans: Sanford Meisner):
    This member of the Group Theatre broke away from Method acting to found his namesake technique, which focuses on "the reality of doing" and uses a strict "repetition exercise." He taught at The Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre from 1935 to 1991.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author controversially lost the 1935 Pulitzer Prize for Drama to Zoe Akins's play The Old Maid. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lillian Hellman [or Lillian Florence Hellman]):
    Name this playwright whose acclaimed plays like The Children's Hour and The Little Foxes never won her a Pulitzer.
  Part 2 (ans:  The Petrified Forest (by Robert Sherwood)):
    Zoe Akins's play seemed doomed for failure when it premiered the exact same day as this play in which Duke Mantee's gang takes over the Black Mesa Bar-B-Q in Arizona.
  Part 3 (ans: Clifford Odets ):
    In February of 1935, just a month after The Old Maid and The Petrified Forest opened, this author premiered his play about the Berger family, Awake and Sing!

[B3] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Plays in this language were performed in the "Rialto" theater district on Second Avenue, where leading actresses often took the role nicknamed "Queen Lear," Mirele Efros. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yiddish):
    Zero Mostel pioneered the role of Tevye the Milkman in a musical based on Sholem Aleichem's stories in what language?
  Part 2 (ans: Adler [accept Jacob Adler or Stella Adler]):
    Jacob Gordin created the role of the "Yiddish King Lear" for an Odessa-born actor from this family. As a part of the Group Theatre, his daughter of this surname brought Stanislavski's method acting techniques to the US.
  Part 3 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    Mr. Prince declares himself an "American King Lear" in this author's play A Rocket to the Moon. Stella Adler premiered the role of Bessie Berger in this author's play about a Jewish family in the Bronx, Awake and Sing!

[B4] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's suicidal tendencies are revealed with the discovery of a rubber pipe in the basement of his house. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Willy Loman [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this tragic character. This character's father carved and sold flutes in the wilderness, leading to the use of flute music to represent this character's failed ambition, which also opens the play in which he appears.
  Part 2 (ans: Death of a Salesman):
    Willy Loman crashes his car, killing himself in order to secure life insurance money for his son Biff, in this Arthur Miller play.
  Part 3 (ans: Awake and Sing! (by Clifford Odets)):
    In this other play, the Marxist Jacob commits suicide in order to get Ralph his insurance money. Bessie Berger attempts to arrange a marriage for her daughter Hennie in this Depression-era play set in the Bronx.

[B5] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character says that "the times ain't ripe" for one of these events because of "the man in the White House." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a labor strike [accept any answer about a strike in a specific industry; prompt on work stoppage; prompt on labor shortage; prompt on withholding labor or similar answers] (All the clues are from the play Waiting for Lefty by Clifford Odets.)):
    Identify these events whose repercussions are discussed by a man from Philadelphia named Tom Clayton. At the end of a play, Agate asks, "Well, what's the answer?" to which everyone on stage replies by repeating a word for one of these events.
  Part 2 (ans: Lynn Nottage):
    An employer-initiated lockout at a textile mill in Reading ("RED-ing"), Pennsylvania, is central to this author's 2015 play Sweat. This author's play about women in the DRC, Ruined, won the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for Drama.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    Workers fear that their illegal taxi station will be demolished by the city in this author's play Jitney. Troy Maxson becomes the first Black garbage truck driver in Pittsburgh in this author's play Fences.

[B6] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright created Lorna, who is disparaged as "the tramp of Newark" by her lover, the violinist-turned-boxer Joe Bonaparte. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    Name this Depression-era socialist playwright of Golden Boy. He depicted a taxi drivers' strike in his play Waiting for Lefty.
  Part 2 (ans: Awake and Sing!):
    This Odets play focuses on the Bergers, a poor Jewish family in a Bronx tenement whose daughter Hennie is pregnant by an unknown man.
  Part 3 (ans: Stella Adler):
    This founder of a namesake New York acting studio wrote an essay calling Odets's plays "epic in the demand for life." She would know, since she starred as Bessie Berger in Awake and Sing! on Broadway.

[B7] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After a Senator criticized an NEA award being given to an author of this surname, George Plimpton told him, "you are from the Midwest. You are culturally deprived, so you would not understand it anyway." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saroyan [accept Aram Saroyan or William Saroyan] (that novel is The Human Comedy)):
    Give this surname of an author who won a $750 prize for a poem entirely consisting of the misspelled word "lighght." This surname is shared by his father, who wrote about Homer Macaulay's childhood in Ithaca, California.
  Part 2 (ans: the Great Depression):
    William Saroyan burst onto the scene with a story about an unemployed former trapeze artist set during this economic downturn that began in 1929.
  Part 3 (ans: Waiting for Lefty (by Clifford Odets)):
    At the end of this 1935 play set during the Great Depression, a union of taxi cab drivers chant "Strike!" after learning the title character has been shot.

[B8] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright wrote about Dr. Ben Stark's love affair with the young dental assistant Cleo Singer in his play Rocket to the Moon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clifford Odets (The play is Golden Boy.)):
    Name this playwright who depicted the life of the struggling Berger family in his play Awake and Sing! He also wrote a play in which the aspiring violinist Joe Bonaparte becomes a boxer in order to support himself.
  Part 2 (ans: Great Depression):
    Many of Odets' plays, such as Awake and Sing! and Waiting for Lefty, center on working Americans dealing with the fallout of this economic downturn of the 1930s.
  Part 3 (ans: Archibald MacLeish):
    This other author used the aftermath of the bank panic of 1933 as the setting for his play Panic, whose premiere gave Orson Welles his first leading role in America.

[B9] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Like its author's Waiting for Lefty, this play was produced by the socially conscious Group Theatre troupe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Golden Boy):
    Name this play about Joe Bonaparte, who fears that if he becomes a boxer, it will ruin his hands, thus ending his dream of becoming a violinist.
  Part 2 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    Golden Boy and Waiting for Lefty were both written by this American playwright of Awake and Sing!
  Part 3 (ans: method acting):
    The Group Theatre developed this acting approach in which the actor tries to totally identify emotionally with the part. Actors who use this approach are notorious for doing things like starving themselves and not bathing to get in character.

[B10] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One woman in this play is sad because although newspapers say orange juice is healthy for children, her own child has never even seen a grapefruit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Waiting for Lefty):
    Name this play, composed of short scenes in which Fayette tries to persuade Miller to spy on his boss, Florence falls in love with Sid, and Edna persuades the taxi-driver Joe to stand up to his employers during a strike.
  Part 2 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    Waiting for Lefty was written by this leftist American playwright who wrote about the Bergers in Awake and Sing! He also wrote about Joe Bonaparte's struggle between boxing and music in Golden Boy.
  Part 3 (ans: strike!):
    Waiting for Lefty ends with this repeated word; in early productions of the show, the audience would sometimes leave the theatre chanting this word in imitation of the actors.

[B11] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In one scene of this play, Japheth insists that he should use a rudder to navigate the Ark, though Noah thinks that it is sacrilegious. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Flowering Peach):
    Name this last play of its author, which depicts a 600-year-old Noah challenging God's will. It is named for a fruit that symbolizes the "renewal of life" in God.
  Part 2 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    The name of Eisenhower's favorite golf course inspired the title of this author's play The Flowering Peach. The travails of the Bronx family of Myron Berger are the subject of this author's play Awake and Sing!.
  Part 3 (ans: Waiting for Lefty):
    Yells of "Strike! Strike! Strike!" end this other play by Clifford Odets, in which the title character never appears on stage but is shot dead as taxi-drivers strive to "make a new world."

[B12] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this play, Moe Axelrod, lost his leg in World War I and receives ninety dollars a week from the government. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Awake and Sing!):
    Name this play about Myron and Bessie Berger and their children that is set in the slums of 1930s New York.
  Part 2 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    Awake and Sing! is by this American playwright of Golden Boy and The Big Knife who also wrote many screenplays, like Clash by Night. He testified before HUAC against many of his contemporaries.
  Part 3 (ans: Waiting for Lefty):
    Clifford Odets is most famous for this play, composed of seven scenes about a taxi strike. Miller refuses to spy on Dr. Brenner in one scene, and another sees Tom Clayton, a plant, try to talk the taxi drivers out of striking. Its title refers to the taxi drivers' never-seen union representative.

[B13] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this play falls in love with Lorna Moon, his manager's girlfriend. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Golden Boy):
    Name this play in which violinist Joe Bonaparte risks his hands by becoming a boxer.
  Part 2 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    This American playwright wrote Golden Boy. He wrote about union leader Harry Fatt's attempt to quell a taxi drivers' strike in Waiting for Lefty.
  Part 3 (ans: The Group Theatre):
    Golden Boy and Waiting for Lefty were both premiered by this socially conscious drama troupe co-founded by Harold Clurman and Lee Strasberg, which was the first to use Method acting.

[B14] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Hennie discovers she is pregnant in this play after an affair with Moe Axelrod, the central family's one-legged boarder. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Awake and Sing!):
    Identify this work about Ralph's increasing consternation with his family, the Bergers, who plod through an intractable existence in a Depression-Era Bronx apartment.
  Part 2 (ans: Waiting for Lefty):
    This play by the author of Awake and Sing! Sees the spy Clayton kicked out of a labor meeting whose attendees decide to go on strike upon finding out that the title character is dead.
  Part 3 (ans: Clifford Odets):
    Waiting for Lefty and Awake and Sing! Are works by this American dramatist, who also wrote The Flowering Peach and The Country Girl.
