=== STOCK CLUES: Marian Anderson ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Bongani Ndodana-Breen's 2011 work Winnie is discussed in Naomi Andre's 2018 book on the racial history and contemporary status of this art form, mainly in the U.S. and post-apartheid South Africa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: opera [accept Black Opera: History, Power, Engagement; accept solo-opera] (The clue refers to the Metropolitan Opera's 2015 production of Verdi's Otello.)):
    Name this art form. In 2015, a New York company made the uncommon decision to not have tenor Aleksandrs Antonenko wear blackface while playing the title character of a work in this art form based on Shakespeare's Othello.
  Part 2 (ans: Marian Anderson):
    By playing Ulrica in the Metropolitan Opera's 1955 production of Un ballo in maschera, this contralto became the first African-American to sing at the Met. Earlier, this singer gave a famed outdoor performance at the Lincoln Memorial.
  Part 3 (ans: Anthony Davis (no relation to the NBA player)):
    A nearly all-black cast is required for this contemporary composer's vignette-based opera X, the Life and Times of Malcolm X. This composer's opera The Central Park Five won the Pulitzer Prize for Music in 2020.

[B2] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This office was created on the last night of James K. Polk's presidency, allowing Zachary Taylor to appoint its first holder, Thomas Ewing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Secretary of the Interior [or Interior Secretary]):
    Name this cabinet position later held by Richard Ballinger, who ousted Gifford Pinchot from President Taft's Forestry Bureau, and Albert Fall, who leased federal oil reserves at Teapot Dome.
  Part 2 (ans: Marian Anderson's vocal concert in front of the Lincoln Memorial [prompt on partial answers]):
    Harold Ickes, FDR's Interior Secretary, used his authority over The Mall to arrange this event on Easter Sunday 1939, after the Daughters of the American Revolution refused to let a black performer use DC's Constitution Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Indian land trusts [or Indian trust funds; or tribal trust accounts; or Individual Indian Money accounts; or IIM accounts; prompt on "accounts"]):
    During the 2000s, Elouise Cobell et al. sued the Department of the Interior for gross mismanagement of these financial resources, which contain revenues from resource production activities on federally-held Indian land.

[B3] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Harriet Lane held this position under the tenure of James Buchanan, though she was technically his niece. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: First Lady):
    Name this position once held by the current Secretary of State. A woman with first name Anna Eleanor held this position, in which scope she founded the Freedom House with Wendell Wilkie.
  Part 2 (ans: Marian Anderson):
    Eleanor Roosevelt was instrumental in moving a concert given by this African-American singer to the steps of the Lincoln Memorial after she was denied the right to perform in Constitution Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Ladies' Home Journal):
    Eleanor Roosevelt also helped to select the jury for the first American Peace Award at the behest of Edward Bok, who was able to fund the award from his ownership of this magazine founded by Louisa and Cyrus Curtis. It published Jane Addams's satirical article "If Men Were Seeking the Franchise."
