=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Charles Willson Peale ===
(Questions where 'Charles Willson Peale' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many paintings in Edward Hicks's Peaceable Kingdom series depict this man conversing with followers in the background. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Penn [accept Penn's Treaty with the Indians]):
    Identify this historical figure who wears a green vest and kneels away from the viewer while surrounded by men in tricornes and headdresses in a 1772 painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Benjamin West (The other painting is "The Death of General Wolfe.")):
    This American artist and court painter for King George III created Penn's Treaty with the Indians. In another painting by this artist, an Indian man rests his chin on his fist while looking at a dying general.
  Part 3 (ans: Raphael [or Raphael West; or Raphaelle Peale; or Raphael Sanzio da Urbino; prompt on Sanzio]):
    A Benjamin West painting depicts his son Benjamin Jr. and his other son, who had this first name. This is the first name of one of Charles Willson Peale's sons, who shares this first name with the artist of The School of Athens.

[BM2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: James Hall led one of the first professional archaeological digs in America when he excavated the homestead of this ancestor of his in 1856. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Myles Standish [or Miles Standish; accept "The Courtship of Miles Standish"]):
    Name this signer of the Mayflower Compact and military advisor for the Plymouth Colony. His supposed rivalry with John Alden was fictionalized in a narrative poem.
  Part 2 (ans: New York [or NY]):
    A Massachusetts contemporary of Hall also named James Hall founded the Geological Society of America in this state, where Charles Willson Peale earlier exhumed a full Mastodon skeleton before bringing it to Pennsylvania.
  Part 3 (ans: Ohio River):
    A contemporary of Hall and Hall also named James Hall wrote his story "The Indian Hater" while living near this river in Cincinnati. The pro-slavery "butternuts" lived north of this river that formed the Northwest Territory's southern border.

[BM3] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A William Sydney Mount painting depicts the Triumph of a person of this profession over an amazed farmer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: artist [or painter; reject answers such as "sculptor" or "photographer"]):
    Identify this profession depicted in a group portrait by Matthew Pratt. An 1822 painting is titled for a man with this profession who pulls back a curtain to reveal a room full of taxidermied objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Peale [accept Charles Willson Peale; accept Raphaelle Peale]):
    The Artist in His Museum is a painting by an early American artist with this surname. That artist fathered Raphaelle, an artist with this surname who is considered the first professional American still-life painter.
  Part 3 (ans: George Washington [or GW; accept Washington at Princeton]):
    Charles Willson Peale created many portraits of this historical figure, including one depicting him at Princeton. Gilbert Stuart painted this man in the Lansdowne Portrait.

[BM4] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A member of this family is shown wearing unusual eyeglasses and sitting next to a potted geranium in a painting by his brother, whose paintings include Court of Death and George Washington, Patriae Pater. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Peale family [accept Rubens Peale, Rembrandt Peale, or Charles Willson Peale):
    Name this family that included the Rubens and Rembrandt. Its patriarch, Charles, painted The Artist in his Museum and The Exhumation of the Mastodon.
  Part 2 (ans: Titian [or Tiziano Vecellio]):
    Charles Willson Peale named two sons, including his youngest, after this Venetian artist of Diana and Actaeon, The Rape of Europa, and Sacred and Profane Love.
  Part 3 (ans: Sophonisba Anguissola [or Sophonisba Angusciola]):
    Peale named one of his daughters after this painter, a tutor of Elizabeth of Valois, the wife of Philip II of Spain. Her works include a double portrait depicting her teacher Bernardo Campi painting her portrait.
