=== STOCK CLUES: Charles Willson Peale ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pennsylvania [or PA; accept Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts] (The artist in the first sentence is Edward Hicks. The artist in the second sentence is Charles Willson Peale. The history painting is Penn's Treaty with the Indians.)
  - This state was home to a naive artist who depicted a prophecy from the Book of Isaiah in over 60 paintings of a "Peaceable Kingdom." Violet Oakley and Cecilia Beaux studied at this state's first academy and museum, whose collection is revealed by the drawing of a curtain in a self-portrait titled The Artist in His Museum.
  - Natives from this state who used clay and bear grease to mix color taught a history painter who depicted some of them looking on as a (*) roll of cloth is unfurled by the entourage of a religious leader during the signing of a treaty. [PWR]
  - The sculptor of Nymph and Bittern, William Rush, co-founded this state's Academy of Fine Arts, which taught a resident of this state who painted The Swimming Hole.
  - For 10 points, name this state where artist Benjamin West was born to a family of Quakers. [GIVE]

[T2] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Willson Peale
  - This man painted an allegedly 140-year-old man wearing a kufi in his portrait of Yarrow Mamout.
  - One of his paintings shows a deceased child in a white bonnet as her mother wipes her tears away with a handkerchief.
  - This artist of Rachel Weeping painted a work that shows a dead wild turkey in its bottom left corner, as a figure lifts a red curtain to reveal many stuffed birds on display.
  - This man, who exchanged a saddle for art lessons from John Hesselius, showed the central figure of one of his portraits leaning against a cannon and standing over a grounded flag captured from mercenaries in George Washington at Princeton.
  - Alexander Wilson and this artist's sons Linnaeus, Franklin, and Titian are present in a painting by this man that shows a pulley system going into a pit at Barber farm.
  - This painter of The Artist in His Museum also had sons named Raphaelle and Rembrandt.
  - For 10 points, name this early American painter of The Exhumation of the Mastodon. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A William Sydney Mount painting depicts the Triumph of a person of this profession over an amazed farmer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: artist [or painter; reject answers such as "sculptor" or "photographer"]):
    Identify this profession depicted in a group portrait by Matthew Pratt. An 1822 painting is titled for a man with this profession who pulls back a curtain to reveal a room full of taxidermied objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Peale [accept Charles Willson Peale; accept Raphaelle Peale]):
    The Artist in His Museum is a painting by an early American artist with this surname. That artist fathered Raphaelle, an artist with this surname who is considered the first professional American still-life painter.
  Part 3 (ans: George Washington [or GW; accept Washington at Princeton]):
    Charles Willson Peale created many portraits of this historical figure, including one depicting him at Princeton. Gilbert Stuart painted this man in the Lansdowne Portrait.

[B2] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A member of this family is shown wearing unusual eyeglasses and sitting next to a potted geranium in a painting by his brother, whose paintings include Court of Death and George Washington, Patriae Pater. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Peale family [accept Rubens Peale, Rembrandt Peale, or Charles Willson Peale):
    Name this family that included the Rubens and Rembrandt. Its patriarch, Charles, painted The Artist in his Museum and The Exhumation of the Mastodon.
  Part 2 (ans: Titian [or Tiziano Vecellio]):
    Charles Willson Peale named two sons, including his youngest, after this Venetian artist of Diana and Actaeon, The Rape of Europa, and Sacred and Profane Love.
  Part 3 (ans: Sophonisba Anguissola [or Sophonisba Angusciola]):
    Peale named one of his daughters after this painter, a tutor of Elizabeth of Valois, the wife of Philip II of Spain. Her works include a double portrait depicting her teacher Bernardo Campi painting her portrait.

[B3] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these people depicted another of them holding a geranium in a painting which is of much interest to ophthalmologists because of the glasses worn by the latter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the sons of Charles Willson Peale [or: the children of Charles Willson Peale; prompt on: "Charles Willson Peale's family", similar answers]):
    Identify this group of people, two of whom are shown the trompe l'oeil painting The Staircase Group, and most of whom are named after famous painters.
  Part 2 (ans: silhouettes):
    C. W. Peale's slave Moses Williams became a maker of this kind of portrait, named after a French finance minister, which shows the shadow of the subject's profile. Kara Walker is famous for using this technique in her art.
  Part 3 (ans: George Washington):
    Rembrandt Peale painted a portrait of this person in an oval window made of stone. This person sits in the heavens in a painting by Constantino Brumidi.
