=== STOCK CLUES: Pearl Poet ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the Pearl Poet [or the Gawain Poet; accept anything that indicates they wrote either Pearl or Sir Gawain and the Green Knight]
  - The first five stanzas of a poem by this author all end with the phrase "without a spot" to describe an object that fell down a mound covered in herbs. [PWR]
  - After falling asleep in a "garden green," the narrator of a poem by this author dreams of a different garden in which the title character lies out of reach across a river representing death. [PWR]
  - In a different poem by this author, a man turns down a woman's offer of a ring, but accepts her (*) silken girdle instead. [PWR]
  - This author used a shifting meter called "bob and wheel" for the stanzas of a poem in which an enchanted sash protects one title character from being beheaded by Lord Bertilak's axe.
  - For 10 points, name this poet, named either for his allegorical work about a father grieving his lost daughter, or for his poem about the title character's promise with the Green Knight. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the Pearl Poet [accept e.g. "the author of Gawain", prompt on "unknown" with "name me a work attributed to them?" and then accept if they say "Pearl", "Gawain", "Cleanness" or "Patience"]
  - In a poem attributed to this author, a saint sheds a tear on a reanimated corpse which then dissolves into dust. [PWR]
  - One of this author's poems uses images of Belshazzar's Feast and the Flood to illustrate its title concept, while in another work by this author, a father dreams of crossing a stream to a beautiful maiden.
  - In another poem by this author of (*) Cleanness, animal carcasses are traded for kisses with a man who brings a green girdle he receives from the wife of Bertilak back to the Knights of the Round Table.
  - For 10 points, name this unknown author of Gawain and the Green Knight. [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Pearl Poet [or the Gawain Poet before it is read]
  - This author wrote a poem identifying the title virtue with poverty and describing its role in the story of Jonah.
  - This author also wrote a poem in which the narrator learns about the New Jerusalem from a maiden he identifies with the title lost object.
  - This author of Cleanness and Patience also wrote a poem in which one title character breaks the rules of a game by keeping a girdle which supposedly grants invulnerability, for which he receives a nick on the neck rather than beheading by the other title character in a confrontation planned by Morgan le Fay.
  - For 10 points, name this anonymous author of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Piers Plowman is typically grouped with a loose 14th-century "revival" named for this literary device, which included an account of the death of King Arthur usually titled for this device. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: alliteration [or word forms such as alliterative; accept Alliterative Revival; accept Alliterative Morte Arthure]):
    Name this literary device that was used to join two half-lines divided by a caesura ("suh-ZHUR-uh") in most Old English poetry.
  Part 2 (ans: rhyme [or word forms such as rhyming; accept "The Rhyming Poem" or "The Riming Poem"; accept end rhyme or other forms of rhyme; accept rhyme scheme]):
    Alliteration was supplanted by this other technique, which names a prototypical 87-line poem found in the Exeter Book. This technique may be assigned "schemes" such as ABABA.
  Part 3 (ans: Pearl Poet [or Gawain Poet]):
    This poet, who is often grouped with the Alliterative Revival, used a device called a "bob and wheel" consisting of a pair of stressed syllables and a rhyming four-line stanza. In a poem attributed to this unknown author, a grieving father sees a maiden named for the title object.

[B2] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for this hero was written during the "Alliterative Revival," and its only surviving copy is found in the Cotton Nero A.x ("A 10") manuscript. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Gawain [accept Sir Gawain and the Green Knight or the Gawain Poet]):
    Name this Arthurian hero who beheads the Green Knight in a namesake 14th-century narrative poem.
  Part 2 (ans:  Pearl [or Perle; accept the Pearl Poet]):
    The Gawain Poet is often named for this other poem they likely wrote, also found in the Cotton Nero A.x manuscript. This poem's narrator dreams of a maiden after he loses his daughter, who is named for the title object.
  Part 3 (ans: bob and wheel):
    Stanzas in Gawain end with this five-line device, which is named for a pair of metrical schemes. The first is a short half-line of two syllables, which is then followed by a rhyming four-line stanza with a distinct rhythm.

[B3] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a work by this poet, a man dreams that he sees a woman across a stream, who teaches him about sin and grace before showing him the Heavenly Jerusalem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Pearl Poet [or the Gawain Poet]):
    Name this author, to whom moral allegories such as Patience and Cleanness are attributed, all found in the same manuscript.
  Part 2 (ans: alliteration):
    Along with Langland's Piers Plowman, the Pearl Poet's works are contributors to the revival of a genre of poetry characterised by this literary device. Beowulf and most other works of Old English poetry use this device instead of rhyme, which can also be seen in 'Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper'.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Bertilak):
    This character in Gawain and the Green Knight tests Gawain by pretending to seduce him. His secret acceptance of a protective belt from this character results in his slight injury at the hands of the Green Knight.

[B4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The frame story of this poem involves the title character repeatedly falling asleep in the Malvern Hills, before seeing visions including a "fair field full of folk," representing all of mankind. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Piers Plowman" [or "William's Vision of Piers Plowman"]):
    Name this poem by William Langland. Its protagonist visits the allegorical characters Do-Well, Do-Better and Do-Best in his quest for the true Christian life.
  Part 2 (ans: Passus or steps):
    Each vision in Piers Plowman is subdivided into these short sections, roughly analogous to cantos. They are known by either a Latin or English name.
  Part 3 (ans: the Pearl Poet):
    This possible contemporary of Langland wrote Patience, Cleanness, and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.

[B5] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This speaker of this poem has a vision of the Cross, in which it recounts its time as a tree and its later time bearing the crucified Jesus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Dream of the Rood):
    Name this poem in alliterative verse which tells the story of the Cross to mirror that of Christ.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [prompt on English or Anglo-Saxon; do not accept or prompt on "middle English"]):
    The Dream of the Rood is written in this language. The Exeter Book is the largest extant collection of literature in this language, and the Nowell Codex, containing a copy of Beowulf, was also written in this language.
  Part 3 (ans: the Pearl Poet [or the Gawain-Poet]):
    This name is given to the Middle English author of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, who described the title virtues in his alliterative poems Patience and Cleanness.

[B6] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's description of the Dead Sea and the vessels used at Belshazzar's Feast are mainly drawn from Mandeville's Travels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cleanness [or Purity]):
    Name this alliterative poem that discusses the episodes of Noah's ark surviving the deluge, Abraham and Lot, and the writing on the wall at Belshazzar's Feast to urge mankind to follow the title virtue.
  Part 2 (ans: Pearl Poet [accept Gawain Poet, but do not reveal this answer]):
    Cleanness, Patience, and two other poems by this author are drawn from the Cotton Nero A.x manuscript.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Gawain and the Green Knight [accept Gawain]):
    The Pearl Poet liberally used bob and wheel stanzas in this romance, whose frst title character accepts a challenge to be-head the second, and to be beheaded himself in a year and a day.

[B7] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author is usually credited with a 352-line alliterative poem about the late-seventh-century bishop of London, St. Erkenwald. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Pearl Poet):
    Name this author of poems in the Cotton Nero A x manuscript, such as one in which a man is told that his daughter is part of a procession of virgins in heaven, and Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.
  Part 2 (ans: Patience):
    This poem from the manuscript mocks Jonah for not possessing the title quality, leading to his being swallowed by a whale.
  Part 3 (ans: bob and wheel):
    Sir Gawain often uses this Middle English poetic device, in which a very short alliterative line marks the transition to a rhyming verse.
