=== STOCK CLUES: Peter Sellars ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Peter Sellars <ES>
  - This man praised Bill Viola's ability to "to bring the Californian forest into the theatre" as part of their co-production of Tristan und Isolde.
  - The chorus wears contamination suits on a stage lit by a huge lightbulb in this man's Chernobyl-inspired staging of Le Grand Macabre, which infuriated Gyorgy Ligeti. [PWR]
  - A repeated refrain in a libretto by this man mentions how "the cloud-flower blossoms" in each cardinal direction. [PWR]
  - A boombox replaces the wind ensemble in this man's production of Don (*) Giovanni told as a blaxploitation story in the South Bronx. [PWR]
  - A libretto by this man features Pasqualita singing a Tewa song while the main character later quotes from "Batter my heart, three person'd God" at the Trinity test site.
  - The libretto for Doctor Atomic was written by, for 10 points, what contemporary American opera director? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The soprano Elizabeth Schwarzkopf compared many of this director's choices to "spray[ing] graffiti on the Mona Lisa." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    Name this theater and opera director who set a 1980 production of Handel's Orlando in outer space. As a librettist, he has frequently worked with John Adams, such as on The Death of Klinghoffer.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Hindemith):
    In 1995, Sellars anachronistically included a machine gun and TVs in his Covent Garden staging of this composer's opera about a Renaissance painter, Mathis der Maler.
  Part 3 (ans: The Marriage of Figaro [or Le nozze de Figaro]):
    Sellars's production of this opera changed its setting to a penthouse on the 52nd floor of Trump Tower. Kirill Serebrennikov's 2024 production of this opera in Berlin gave it a horror-thriller makeover.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A Puccini-inspired opera by this composer is based on letters written during the California Gold Rush. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Adams [or John Coolidge Adams] (The other opera is The Death of Klinghoffer.)):
    Name this composer of another opera in which the protagonist sings the "Aria of the Falling Body" as he is thrown overboard the Achille Lauro.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Nixon [or Richard Milhous Nixon; accept Nixon in China]):
    The aria "This is prophetic" is sung in the Summer Palace by this president's wife Pat in another opera by Adams, which tells the story of his 1972 visit to China to visit Mao Zedong.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    The original production of Nixon in China was produced by this theater director. This director also wrote the libretti for Adams's operas Girls of the Golden West and Doctor Atomic.

[B3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about operas by John Adams, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Antony AND Cleopatra [accept Mark Antony or Marc Anthony or Marcus Antonius in place of "Antony"; accept Cleopatra VII Philopator in place of "Cleopatra"]):
    Two answers required. These two characters title the most recent opera by Adams and were performed by Gerard Finley and Amina Edris to open the San Francisco Opera's 100th season. Samuel Barber was commissioned to compose an opera about these two characters for the opening of the new Metropolitan Opera House.
  Part 2 (ans:  Nixon in China):
    This first opera by Adams begins with the arrival of a plane carrying the title president, whose wife receives a small glass elephant and sings the aria "This is prophetic" in the Summer Palace.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    Adams has frequently collaborated with this theater director, who wrote the libretti for Doctor Atomic and Girls of the Golden West. This man also directed a production of The Marriage of Figaro set at Trump Tower.

[B4] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Inspired by this director's staging of Messiaen's opera Saint Francois d'Assise, Kaija Saariaho was inspired to write her first opera L'Amour de loin, which this man also directed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    Name this opera director. His best-known direction of an opera involved putting the presidential airplane 'Spirit of '76' and a giant bomb on the stage.
  Part 2 (ans: John Adams):
    Sellars often directed and conceived operas by this composer, including writing the libretto for his opera Doctor Atomic. Sellars also directed this composer's operas The Death of Klinghoffer and Nixon in China.
  Part 3 (ans: Golden West [accept Girls or Girl of the Golden West, prompt on West]):
    Sellars wrote another libretto for Adams's most recent opera, titled for Girls of this specific two-word region. The title references a Puccini opera based on a David Belasco play titled for The Girl of this two-word region.

[B5] 2018 Stevenson Memorial Tournament (SMT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's production of Don Giovanni was staged to resemble a blaxploitation film in the Bronx. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    Name this theater and opera director. In one of his collaborations, he wrote a libretto quoting from government documents and poetry ranging from John Donne to a Tewa traditional song.
  Part 2 (ans: John Coolidge Adams):
    Peter Sellars is a frequent collaborator of this composer and directed his operas The Death of Klinghoffer and Nixon in China.
  Part 3 (ans: Doctor Atomic):
    Sellars wrote the libretto for this Adams opera that includes the Donne quote "Batter my heart, three person'd God." This opera begins with a chorus singing "We believed that matter can be neither created nor destroyed."

[B6] 2018 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the opera L'Amour de loin ("lah-MOOR duh LWANN"), for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Finland [or Suomi]):
    L'Amour de loin was composed by Kaija Saariaho ("KYE-yah SAH-ree-ah-ho"), a composer from this country. Jean Sibelius, another composer from this country, wrote many pieces inspired by its national epic, the Kalevala.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    The original production of L'Amour de loin was directed by this American opera director. This man's production of The Death of Klinghoffer was so controversial that the opening scene was later removed from the score.
  Part 3 (ans: Olivier Messiaen ("oh-leev-YAY mess-YAWN")):
    Saariaho decided to write L'Amour de loin after she saw Sellars's production of this composer's opera Saint-Francois d'Assise. This man composed a piece that opens with a "Crystal Liturgy" in which a clarinet plays a blackbird's song.
