=== STOCK CLUES: Piranesi ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 19 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giovanni Battista Piranesi [or Giambattista Piranesi]
  - Several of this person's designs, such as the Isis Tripod, have been virtually reconstructed in 3D by the company Factum Arte.
  - Chiwetel Ejiofor ["CHEW-a-tell EDGY-a-for"] narrated an award-winning audiobook version of a novel named for this person where a character named the Other carries a "shining device" and warns the protagonist to avoid a visitor to The House.
  - The British Museum owns an enormous 2.7-meter-tall krater restored by this artist. [PWR]
  - This artist defended the merits of (*) Roman art against Pierre-Jean Mariette, in part by distorting the perspective of etchings like "Pyramid of Cestius" to make the ruins look bigger.
  - Chronic fatigue syndrome delayed the publication of a novel titled for this artist by Jonathan Strange & Mr.
  - Norrell author Susanna Clarke.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian artist whose Carceri [car-CHAIR-ee] series imagines surrealistic prisons. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giovanni Battista Piranesi
  - This artist supposedly remarked "If I were commissioned to design a new universe, I would be mad enough to undertake it" according to a biography of him by Giovanni Bianconi.
  - This artist was often patronized by Cardinal Rezzonico, who is the dedicatee of the prefatory essay in his book Diverse maniere, which contains this artist's fireplace designs. [PWR]
  - In one work by this artist, numerous arched bridges are seemingly unaffected by the title "Smoking Fire." That work is part of a series that includes The Round Tower and The Pier with a Lamp, and was made by brushing sulfuric acid onto plates. [PWR]
  - Etchings of the (*) Pyramid of Gaius Cestius and the Ruined Gallery of the Villa Adriana at Tivoli comprise his vedute series of ancient Rome.
  - Thomas De Quincey's Confessions of an English Opium Eater recounts how Coleridge told the author about this artist's dream-like works, which feature catapults, cables and pulleys in an impossible architectural capriccio.
  - For 10 points, name this artist who made etchings of imaginary prisons in his Carceri d'invenzione series. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giovanni Battista Piranesi
  - This man's argued that Etruscans were the lone founders of Rome in his Della magnificenza ed architettura de' Romani. [PWR]
  - This author of Diverse Ways of Decorating Chimneypieces and Every Other Part of a Building restored the Boyd and Warwick Vases from classical fragments. [PWR]
  - This artist's design for the Santa Maria del Priorato was financed by Clement XIII, and he justified that design in his Opinions on Architecture.
  - Works by this man like the (*)Pyramid of Cestius and The Colosseum exaggerated the size of their subjects.
  - This man, whose etchings were extremely popular among Europeans on the Grand Tour, created a series of sprawling imaginary prisons called carceri.
  - For 10 points, creator of vedutes of Roman ruins. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Aldous Huxley described the "colossal pointlessness" of a series by this artist that includes a man being tortured on a rack amidst open-air picturesque ruins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Battista Piranesi ("pee-rah-NAY-zee") [or Giambattista Piranesi] (The series in the first line is Piranesi's Carceri d'invenzione)):
    Name this artist, who earned the nickname Sir Pastiche in part for his restorations of ancient vases with invented reconstructions. His architectural vedute ("vay-DOO-tay") were popular on the Grand Tour.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    This architect once called Piranesi "horrible, ugly, and idiotic," but non-baseball announcer Vin Scully argued that Piranesian space influenced his work. He wrote the Five Points of Architecture and designed the Villa Savoye ("sav-WAH").
  Part 3 (ans: Metropolis):
    Piranesi inspired Boris Balinsky's poster for this film, while Heinz Schulz-Neudamm's ("NOY-dahm's") poster for it is the most expensive film poster ever sold. The tallest building in this film's central city is the Breughel-inspired New Tower of Babel.

[B2] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Coleridge's visit to the Triumph of Death frescos in Pisa may have inspired this essay's description of a bas-relief of a battle that the author sees while being carried through a cathedral. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The English Mail-Coach"):
    A sculpture of the Dying Trumpeter comes to life in what essay's "Dream Fugue" section? At the start of this essay, the author nearly dies in a collision with a young couple in a gig.
  Part 2 (ans: ekphrasis):
    "The English Mail-Coach" and its use of this technique reflects Thomas de Quincey's translation of Lessing's essay Laocoon. This literary device with a Greek name involves the description of artworks.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Battista Piranesi [or Giambattista Piranesi]):
    The ekphrasis on this artist in Confessions of an English Opium Eater is also based on Coleridge's testimony. De Quincey recounts how his dreams resemble a likely fictional work depicting this artist crawling up a staircase.

[B3] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Not all architectural designs come to fruition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Battista Piranesi):
    This architect created many fantastical and atmospheric plans for prisons, which are included in his etching series "Imaginary Prisons."
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Jacques Lequeu):
    This other architect included animal heads on spikes in his plan for the gates of a hunting ground. He included the likeness of a cow for his depiction of a barn.
  Part 3 (ans: paper architecture 1.):
    Because many of Piranesi's and Lequeu's works are not meant to be constructed in real life, they fall under this term. Architecture under this term is also known as visionary architecture.

[B4] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This book's title character repeats "The Beauty of the House is immeasurable; its Kindness infinite" after he sees real-world people corresponding to statues he has seen in another world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Piranesi [accept Giovanni Battista Piranesi]):
    Name this second Susanna Clarke novel named after the artist of Imaginary Prisons. This novel is set in a seemingly-infinite House, full of halls filled with statues and prone to flooding.
  Part 2 (ans: minotaur ):
    A family finds a bigger-on-the-inside labyrinth in their house, which may be haunted by this figure, whose name is colored red, in Mark Danielewski's House of Leaves. Theseus kills one of these creatures.
  Part 3 (ans: Little, Big):
    In this John Crowley novel, the architect John Drinkwater writes the mystical book The Architecture of Country Houses and builds the mysterious house Edgewood in a mix of styles.

[B5] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man restored a vase from a Tivoli estate in the style of the Torlonia Vase, which became part of the collection of Cardinal Albani. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Battista Piranesi):
    Name this artist who produced many vedute, or views, of his home city. The Round Tower is one of 16 etchings in his Imaginary Prisons series.
  Part 2 (ans: Rome):
    Piranesi produced many views of this city which depicted its Colosseum and Pantheon.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Leon Gerome):
    The Colosseum was also depicted by this painter in his Pollice Verso. Edward Said used this academic painter's The Snake Charmer as the cover of his book Orientalism.

[B6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, one of these people aids the Duke of Wellington in the Napoleonic Wars and fails to cure King George III's madness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: magicians [or wizards; accept warlocks or mages or sorcerers or enchanters; prompt on descriptions of people who can use magic]):
    Two of what people argue about the Raven King? King Arthur is advised by one of these people named Merlin.
  Part 2 (ans: Susanna Clarke [or Susanna May Clarke] (The novels are Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell and Piranesi.)):
    A "practical magician" wows the Learned Society of York Magicians by making statues speak in a novel by this author. The title amnesiac wanders the House, a world of infinite Halls and Vestibules, in another of her novels.
  Part 3 (ans: Narnia (The first sentence refers to The Magician's Nephew and the second refers to The Last Battle, both by C. S. Lewis.)):
    In a novel by another author, a magician creates rings that transport Digory and Polly to a world that becomes this place. Calls to go "further up and further in!" repeat after Father Time blows a horn to signal this place's death.

[B7] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the 18th century, artists from this city such as Francesco Guardi became renowned for their vedute paintings of its landmarks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Venice [or Venezia]):
    Identify this city, artistic depictions of which often contain several traghetti traversing its canals.
  Part 2 (ans: London, England):
    One master of vedute, Canaletto, was so popular with Grand Tourists that he decamped for this city 1746 to be closer to his clients. Canaletto's painting The Stonemason's Yard now hangs in this European capital's National Gallery.
  Part 3 (ans: Giambattista Piranesi):
    This other Italian artist made a popular series of etchings titled Vedute di Roma. Thomas de Quincey wrote admiringly about this artist's Carceri series of imaginary prisons.

[B8] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist made 14 prints of prisons with elaborate staircases and torture devices called the carceri. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Battista Piranesi):
    Name this vedutisti artist who studied under Vasi and is famous for his prints or vedute of architecture such as the Pyramid of Cestius and the Arch of Trajan.
  Part 2 (ans: Canaletto [Giovanni Antonio Canal; prompt on "Canal"]):
    This other vedutisti painted such works as The Stonemason's Yard. This Italian is best known for paintings depicting the Grand Canal, St. Mark's Square, and the Doge's Palace in his scenes of Venice.
  Part 3 (ans: Rome, Italy [antiprompt on "Vatican City," because many Roman landmarks are owned by the Church]):
    Canaletto was inspired by Panini in this city. Piranesi won fame for prints of landmarks in this city such as the Pyramid of Cestius, the Santa Maria Maggiore, the Pantheon, and the buildings of the ancient Forum.
