=== STOCK CLUES: Beata Beatrix ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; PRB] (The painting described in the second line is Beata Beatrix.)
  - A painting from this movement depicts a sundial casting its shadow on 9 p.m. behind a red dove with a white poppy in its mouth that flies toward a dying woman. [PWR]
  - A painter from this movement contrasted "Soul's Beauty" and "Body's Beauty" in the paintings Sibylla Palmifera and Lady Lilith. [PWR]
  - A woman in a red dress weaves a tapestry in front of a circular window in a work partially titled for the line "I Am (*) Half-Sick of Shadows," which is one of the paintings of the Lady of Shalott made by John William Waterhouse. [PWR]
  - A frequent model for this movement, Elizabeth Siddal, caught a cold while laying in a bathtub to model for Ophelia.
  - For 10 points, name this movement that included John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, which emulated a style from before a certain Renaissance painter. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicts herself as the only standing woman in a group of women and children by the rocks in a watercolor inspired by The Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth (Eleanor) Siddal (The painting is Beata Beatrix.)):
    Name this artist of The Ladies' Lament. This artist's husband, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, depicts her as Beatrice in a Dante-inspired painting where she is delivered a white poppy by a red dove.
  Part 2 (ans: Ophelia):
    Siddal posed in a cold bathtub to model as this character for a painting by John Everett Millais. Millais portrays this Shakespearean character as a woman drowning in a river, surrounded by flowers.
  Part 3 (ans: Julia Margaret Cameron):
    Mary Pinnock wears a black cloak and wilting rosebuds in two of this artist's photographs of Ophelia. This photographer created soft-focus portraits of Charles Darwin and Lord Tennyson.

[B2] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It's time for you to answer some questions about paintings with clocks in them, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salvador Dali):
    In perhaps the best-known depiction of clocks in art, this Spanish Surrealist showed several clocks melting across a desolate Catalonian landscape in his The Persistence of Memory.
  Part 2 (ans: Beata Beatrix):
    In this work by Dante Gabriel Rossetti, a woman faces upwards with her eyes closed and her hands clasped. The sundial behind the title woman casts a shadow on nine.
  Part 3 (ans: View of Delft):
    The clock tower on the Schiedam Gate in this painting says that it is about 7:15 AM. That clock may have been used by the various ferries on the river in this work's foreground.

[B3] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jesus Christ holds a lantern and knocks on a weed-choked door in his The Light of the World. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    Name this Victorian painter of The Scapegoat and a picture of a woman rising out the lap of her lover, The Awakening Conscience.
  Part 2 (ans: The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    William Holman Hunt, along with Dante Gabriel Rossetti, was a member of this British artistic movement, which sought to restore artistic aesthetics to what they were before the painter of The School of Athens.
  Part 3 (ans: Beata Beatrix):
    A sundial stands behind the title green-clad figure, who clenches her eyes shut, while a red dove clutching a poppy sits by her arm in this painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
