=== STOCK CLUES: Dante Gabriel Rossetti ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 58 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 50 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rossetti [accept Christina Rossetti; accept Dante Gabriel Rossetti; accept Reto Rossetti; accept Cezaro Rossetti]
  - Two brothers with this surname who championed Esperanto as a literary language were named Reto and Cezaro.
  - A poem by an author with this surname that consists of a series of one-line questions and answers asks, "Will there be beds for me and all who seek?" An author with this surname opened a collection by calling a sonnet "a moment's monument." The poem "Up-Hill" is by an author with this surname who also wrote that "One may lead a horse to water, Twenty cannot make him drink." The sonnet sequence The House of Life is by an author with this surname who wrote "The Blessed Damozel" and illustrated his sister's poem about Laura and Lizzie.
  - For 10 points, give this surname shared by the siblings Dante Gabriel and the author of "Goblin Market," Christina. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: golden hair [or a lock of hair; or a woman's hair; prompt on locks before "Lock"] (The first sentence refers to Dante Gabriel Rossetti's "Jenny." Rossetti also opened Siddal's coffin, and wrote "the stars in her hair were seven" in "The Blessed Damozel.")
  - The narrator of a dramatic monologue about a "lazy laughing languid" character places gold coins into this substance. [PWR]
  - This substance was the "first gold" according to the sonnet "Body's Beauty," which describes it surrounding Adam's heart.
  - An author trying to recover a manuscript supposedly found that this substance had filled Elizabeth Siddal's coffin after her death, an event later linked to a poem that describes seven stars in this substance. [PWR]
  - Lacking money, (*) Laura trades a "tear more rare than pearl" and this substance for fruit in "Goblin Market." This substance is made into a constellation at the end of a poem in which a Sylph is sliced in half trying to protect it from the Baron.
  - For 10 points, name this physical feature that is cut to signify Belinda's violation in Alexander Pope's "The Rape of the Lock." [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti]
  - A painting by this artist includes white roses, poppies, and foxgloves around a woman who gazes into a hand mirror as she brushes "enchanted hair." That painting by this artist, Lady Lilith, was paired with a painting of a woman pensively holding a violin bow and titled Veronica Veronese.
  - Those works hung in the same room as a painting by this artist that depicted his patron's wife, Frances, as Monna Rosa arranging pink roses in a porcelain vase.
  - Those three paintings made up half of the six "stunners" that this artist painted for the drawing room of Frederick Leyland, which also included a painting by this man in which a woman with seven stars in her hair holds three lilies in her arms.
  - This artist, who frequently employed the model Alexa Wilding, inscribed the frame of that painting with a poem describing eyes "deeper than the depth / of waters stilled at even" and hair "yellow like ripe corn." For 10 points, name this Pre-Raphaelite who painted The Blessed Damozel. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rossetti [accept specific authors like Christina Rossetti or Dante Gabriel Rossetti]
  - One author with this surname wrote a poem whose guilty speaker addresses a man whose "eyes look earthward" and notes "There's blood between us, love" and remembers how "You sinned with me a pleasant (+) sin". [PWR]
  - The speaker of another poem by that author with this surname asks the reader to "tell me of our future that you plann'd" before asking them not to "Remember and be sad". [PWR]
  - This surname, shared by of the author of "The Convent Threshold" and (*) "Remember" and two contributors to The Germ, is shared by a man who wrote about a woman with "three lilies in her hand" who is in Heaven waiting for her lover. [PWR]
  - That author, is the brother of a woman who wrote about Lizzie eating fruit in the title location.
  - For 10 points, identify this shared last name of Dante Gabriel and the author of "Goblin Market", Christina. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on "Rossetti"]
  - A poem by this author ends by urging the addressee to "Let not thine eyes know / Any forbidden thing itself, although / It once should save as well as kill: but be / Its shadow upon life enough for thee." This man wrote a poem about a woman whose "eyes are as blue skies" and whose hair "Is countless gold incomparable" that was inspired by a Shakespeare scene in which Mrs. [PWR]
  - Quickly advises never to give the name of a (*) whore. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem by this man parenthetically notes "I saw her smile" and "I heard her tears" about a woman who longs to meet the five handmaidens of Mary with her beloved.
  - This author of "Aspecta Medusa" and "Jenny" wrote a poem whose title character "lean'd out / From the gold bar of Heaven." For 10 points, name this author of "The Blessed Damozel." [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Awakening Conscience [or The Awakened Conscience, because Dante Gabriel Rossetti refers to it as that in the letter referenced in the tossup]
  - The artist of this painting received a letter from someone who had had the idea for his painting of a farmer holding the hands of a fainted woman, entitled Found, before this painting was created. [PWR]
  - Wallpaper in this painting depicts corn and grapes left unguarded from birds by a sleeping Cupid. [PWR]
  - This painting's details include a vase of morning glories next to a clock decorated with Chastity binding Cupid, and a glove and some unraveled yarn in the bottom right.
  - A cat plays with a bird under a table on the left side of this painting, near a rolled-up paper titled "Tears, Idle Tears." The moment depicted in this painting was caused by the (*) singing of George Moore's "Oft in the Stilly Night," the sheet music of which is visible on the piano and has caused a young woman to rise from the lap of her lover. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name moralistic companion piece to The Light of the World, a painting depicting a "fallen" woman's moment of revelation by William Holman Hunt. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Siddal [or Elizabeth Eleanor Siddal; or Lizzy Siddal; accept Elizabeth Rossetti; accept Lizzy Rossetti; or Dante Gabriel Rossetti's wife; prompt on just Rossetti]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - This author asked, "who shall close my Lady's eyes / And who shall fold her hands?" in the bitter poem "The Lust of the Eyes." A different author observed that only "The blank grey / There where the pool is blind of the moon's face" remained in a glass after this woman was gone.
  - This woman appears "not as she is, but was when hope shone bright," in the poem "In An Artist's Studio," written by her sister-in-law.
  - This woman inspired the sonnet "Without Her" as well as a poem noting that "she had (*) three lilies in her hand / And the stars in her hair were seven." Seven years after this woman died of a laudanum overdose, her husband had her coffin exhumed so he could retrieve all his poems.
  - This woman's death inspired a poem that begins with her leaning "out / From the gold bar of heaven." For 10 points, name this subject of "The Blessed Damozel," whose author had her model for his painting Beata Beatrix. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]
  - A painting by this artist of a woman in a dark blue-green dress was arranged into a "triptych" by Frederick Leyland, who also commissioned this artist's painting Monna Rosa. [PWR]
  - A sycamore tree serves as a seat for a woman whose hand rests on a book and grasps a honeysuckle in a painting by this artist; that painting's model, Jane Morris, also appears in this artist's Proserpine. [PWR]
  - This painter of The Day Dream was inspired by (*) La Vita Nuova to create a painting showing his wife, Elizabeth Siddal, in Paradise. [PWR]
  - This artist depicted a woman with child-angels in heaven in an illustration of his most famous poem, whose title character is shown looking down at her lover on Earth.
  - For 10 points, identify this leader of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood who painted Beata Beatrix and The Blessed Damozel. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti
  - This painter showed Dante lurking in the right background of a watercolor in which the purple-robed Rachel looks at her reflection in a pool of water while the green-robed Leah picks flowers from a branch. [PWR]
  - A series of 23 caricatures about this artist and "His Circle" were drawn by Max Beerbohm. [PWR]
  - A work by this artist shows an angel with pink wings next to a stack of books, on top of which is a potted white lily.
  - In that work, Joachim prunes a vine in the background while Anne sits embroidering with her daughter.
  - In an Annunciation scene, this artist of The Girlhood of (*) Mary Virgin gave both Gabriel and Mary plain white robes, with Mary sitting on her bed and looking as if she has just woken up. [PWR]
  - This artist of Ecce Ancilla Domini! placed a sonnet at the top right of a painting showing a woman who has taken a bite out of a pomegranate.
  - For 10 points, name this Pre-Raphaelite painter of Proserpine who was inspired by the death of his wife, Elizabeth Siddal, to paint Beata Beatrix. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti]
  - The speaker of a poem by this author asks "Whose person or whose purse may be / the lodestar of your reverie?" as part of an internal monologue about the "Lazy laughing languid" title character. [PWR]
  - "Love Enthroned" and "The One Hope" bookend a collection by this man whose introductory poem declares "A Sonnet is a moment's monument".
  - This author of "Jenny" translated the opening line of a Francois (*) Villon poem as "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" and wrote several parody poems about his pet wombat.
  - The title character of his most famous poem had three lilies in her hand and seven stars in her hair as she "leaned out from the gold bar of heaven".
  - For 10 points, name this poet of The House of Life and "The Blessed Damozel", a founder of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti
  - This poet described "clear-ranged unnumbered heads, bowed with their aureoles" in a poem about a person whose hair is "yellow like ripe corn." He also wrote a poem about a "poor shameful [prostitute], full of grace" who he identifies as "lazy laughing languid (*) Jenny." This man, who exhumed a batch of manuscripts from his wife's grave, also wrote a poem whose first four stanzas are inscribed on the frame of his painting of its subject, a woman dead ten years who has been praying for her lover to join her in heaven. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Pre-Raphaelite poet and painter, the author of "The Blessed Damozel" and brother of fellow poet Christina. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]
  - This poet buried his work in his wife's grave after her suicide, but later dug them back up.
  - He claimed that his most famous poem was a reversal of Poe's "The Raven." This man wrote the article "The Stealthy School of Criticism" in response to Robert Buchanan's claim that he belonged to "the fleshly school" of poetry.
  - In one of his poems, he described a character with hair "yellow like ripe corn" who carries "three lilies in her hand." The title character of that poem sees souls go by like "thin flames" while leaning "out from the gold bar of heaven." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Blessed Damozel," a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on just "Rossetti"]
  - In one painting by this artist whose name references a fortress in Istanbul, a woman leans through a window to the left with an orange blossom, while the main subject looks downcast and is wearing a red dress with a large white headpiece. [PWR]
  - Another of his paintings shows a yellow bird in a cage at the upper left while the main subject, a red-haired woman, plays with the strings of a violin attached to the rightmost wall. [PWR]
  - In addition to (*) The Tune of the Seven Towers and Veronica Veronese, he repainted Alexa Wilding's face onto the canvas of a work in which she holds a mirror and combs her hair, Lady Lilith.
  - He also depicted a sundial and a red bird holding a large yellow flower in his painting Beata Beatrix.
  - For 10 points, name this Pre-Raphaelite artist, the brother of poet Christina. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these families associated with the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rossetti family [accept Dante Gabriel Rossetti]):
    William Michael, a member of this family, edited the Pre-Raphaelite magazine The Germ. William's better-known brother from this family illustrated one of his own poems in The Blessed Damozel.
  Part 2 (ans: Madox Brown family [accept Lucy Madox Brown or Ford Madox Brown]):
    Catherine and Lucy were two painters from this family, with the latter best known for her watercolors depicting Shakespeare scenes. Another of its members depicted a wide range of social classes in the painting Work.
  Part 3 (ans: Solomon family):
    Three children from this Jewish family - Rebecca, Simeon, and Abraham - all became Pre-Raphaelite painters, with the latter having his painting career cut short by an 1874 arrest on sodomy charges.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood loved to draw wombats. Name some things about them, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    This wombat owner and artist included wombats in his illustrations for his sister's poem "Goblin Market."
  Part 2 (ans: Oxford [accept Oxford University; accept Oxford Union library; accept Turner of Oxford]):
    PRB members painted wombats on the whitewash while painting Arthurian murals for a building in this city. The less famous William Turner, a watercolor landscape painter, was known as the Turner of this city.
  Part 3 (ans: William Morris (Morris' nickname was Topsy, and Jane cheated on William with Rossetti)):
    Rossetti may have mocked this other artist with a drawing of him as the wombat Top leashed by his wife Jane. This leading member of the British Arts and Crafts Movement founded the Kelmscott Press.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Parenthesized stanzas in this poem reveal the thoughts of its speaker, to whom it has been "ten years of years" since his wife died. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Blessed Damozel"):
    Name this poem inspired by Edgar Allan Poe's "The Raven" and by the early death of its author's wife. This poem's title figure leans out "from the gold bar of Heaven."
  Part 2 (ans: Rossetti [or Christina Rossetti; or Dante Gabriel Rossetti]):
    "The Blessed Damozel" is by an author from this family who exhumed the grave of his wife, Elizabeth Siddal, to retrieve buried poems. His sister from this family with the first name Christina wrote "Goblin Market."
  Part 3 (ans: human hair):
    "The Blessed Damozel" describes how "the stars" in this material "were seven." In "Goblin Market," Lizzie trades "a tear more rare than pearl" and some of this material for the goblins' fruits.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about "Jeanie in her grave, / Who should have been a bride" but who instead "fell sick and died." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christina Rossetti [or Christina Georgina Rossetti; prompt on Rossetti; reject "Dante Gabriel Rossetti"] (The poem is "Goblin Market.")):
    Name this poet who wrote a poem about the sisters Laura and Lizzie, who are tempted by the title creatures calling "come buy, come buy."
  Part 2 (ans: Christmas [accept A Christmas Carol; reject "Christmas Eve"] ("In the Bleak Midwinter" was published as "A Christmas Carol." The novel is by Charles Dickens.)):
    Rossetti originally titled her poem "In the Bleak Midwinter" for this holiday. In a novel titled for this holiday, Ebenezer Scrooge becomes a father figure to Tiny Tim after being visited by three ghosts.
  Part 3 (ans: Jeanette Winterson):
    Elsie reads "Goblin Market" to cheer the narrator up in a novel by this author. This author wrote about a character who has a lesbian affair with Miss Jewsbury in Oranges Are Not The Only Fruit.

[B5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Dewi Ayu's hair has grown to the ground when she comes back from the dead in an Eka Kurniawan novel titled for this concept. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beauty [accept bella; accept Beauty is a Wound; accept Remedios the Beauty; accept Rosa the Beautiful]):
    Name this concept, which names a character who abruptly floats to the sky while folding sheets, as well as a green-haired character whose death prompts her sister to stop speaking for nine years.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez):
    This author described Sierva's abundant hair growing after her death from rabies in Of Love and Other Demons. This author created Remedios the Beauty and other members of the Buendia family in his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]):
    After his wife died, this poet lamented spaces "Without Her" and claimed that her hair had grown when he had her exhumed. This poet coined the word "yesteryear" in his translation of Francois Villon's "The Ballad of Dead Ladies."

[B6] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the second and third endings to The French Lieutenant's Woman, this person employs Sarah Woodruff as an assistant after he meets her and her daughter Lalange on the street. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti] (The poem is "The Blessed Damozel.")):
    Name this Victorian poet. A poem by this author that was intended as a sequel to Poe's "The Raven" describes a figure with "three lilies in her hand" who "lean'd out / from the gold bar of heaven."
  Part 2 (ans: "Goblin Market"):
    Rossetti illustrated the frontispiece of this poem by his sister Christina. The title characters of this poem implore the sisters Laura and Lizzie to "come buy, come buy" their fruit.
  Part 3 (ans: Jenny [accept "Jenny Kiss'd Me"]):
    A Dante Gabriel Rossetti poem describes a person with this name as "fond of a kiss and fond of a guinea." A poem by Leigh Hunt muses that though "health and wealth have miss'd me," a woman with this name "kiss'd me."

[B7] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet was controversial during his lifetime for his frank depictions of sexuality, such as his poem praising a "lazy, laughing, languid" prostitute based on his mistress Fanny Cornforth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]):
    Name this poet of "Jenny." This poet from the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood sensually described how the title character's "bosom...made / the bar she leaned on warm" in "The Blessed Damozel."
  Part 2 (ans: The House of Life):
    Rossetti's sonnet "Nuptial Sleep," which describes a couple dozing off after sex, was omitted from the 1881 version of this sequence due to controversy. Its first poem begins, "A sonnet is a moment's monument."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Fleshly School of Poetry"):
    In a caustic 1871 review, Robert Buchanan coined this term for the poetry of Rossetti and Algernon Swinburne, whose work Buchanan accused of promoting a "morbid deviation" from healthy living.

[B8] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet translated Francois Villon's "Ballade of Dead Ladies" with the refrain "But where are the snows of yester-year?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]):
    Name this poet whose relationship with Elizabeth Siddal inspired his poem about a woman who leans out "from the gold bar of heaven," titled "The Blessed Damozel."
  Part 2 (ans: Algernon Charles Swinburne):
    This decadent poet also translated Francois Villon, but may be best-known for his sadomasochistic collection Poems and Ballads that includes "Dolores" and "Hymn to Proserpine."
  Part 3 (ans: Anactoria (The poem is by Sappho.)):
    This person titles a long poem by Swinburne whose speaker declares, "I feel thy blood against my blood." A poem addressed to her begins by declaring that the man who sits opposite her "seems equal to the gods."

[B9] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these authors who have translated "The Ballad of the Dead Ladies."
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti]):
    This author's translation of the poem is perhaps the best known, and he translated the final line of every stanza as, "But where are the snows of yesteryear?" This member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood published his poem "The Blessed Damozel" in The Germ.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard (Purdy) Wilbur (the poem is "Love Calls Us to the Things of This World")):
    This poet translated the oft-quoted line from "The Ballad of the Dead Ladies" as "But where shall last year's snow be found?" A poem written by this man opens, "The eyes open to a cry of pulleys, and spirited from sleep, the astounded soul hangs for a moment bodiless and simple as false dawn."

[B10] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem by this author claims that "a sonnet is a moment's monument" to introduce his sonnet sequence The House of Life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti; prompt on Rossetti]):
    Name this English poet and painter who wrote about a woman who "leaned out from the gold bar of Heaven" in a poem published in The Germ.
  Part 2 (ans: goblins [accept "Goblin Market"]):
    Dante Gabriel Rossetti's sister Christina wrote a narrative poem in which the sisters Laura and Lizzie encounter a market in which these sinister beings beckon them to "come buy, come buy" their fruits.
  Part 3 (ans: tears):
    At the end of "The Blessed Damozel," the speaker states parenthetically that he heard some of these things. In "Goblin Market," Laura drops one of these objects "more rare than pearl" when she cuts off a lock of her hair.

[B11] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this poem saw "Time like a pulse shake fierce / Through all the worlds," and "spoke as when / The stars sang in their spheres." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Blessed Damozel"):
    Name this poem narrated by a woman who "leaned out / From the gold bar of Heaven," praying to be reunited with her still-living lover.
  Part 2 (ans: Rossetti [or Dante Gabriel Rossetti; or Christina Rossetti]):
    "The Blessed Damozel" was written by an author with this last name whose sister, Christina, penned the poem "Goblin Market."
  Part 3 (ans: the sonnet [do not accept or prompt on any other answers]):
    The introductory poem in Dante Gabriel Rossetti's collection The House of Life calls this form of writing "a moment's monument." Wordsworth slammed critics for being mindless of its "just honours" in a poem titled "Scorn not" this form of writing.

[B12] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A predella depicting a black-cloaked man leaning back with his hands clasped behind his head was added to this painting at the behest of its commissioner, William Graham. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Blessed Damozel):
    Name this 1877 painting whose title woman, modeled on Alexa Wilding, has seven stars in her hair and, as in the poem it was based on, leans out from the gold bar of Heaven..
  Part 2 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    The Blessed Damozel is a work of this poet and painter, who founded the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood with his friends John Everett Millais and William Holman Hunt.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Siddal):
    Rossetti's painting Beata Beatrix was modeled on this woman, his wife, who caught severe pneumonia after spending hours on end in a cold bathtub modeling for Millais's Ophelia.

[B13] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker claims "Our skin has more bird peckings than if it were sewed" before repeating the refrain "But pray that God absolves us all!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Ballad of the Hanged Men" [or "Ballade des Pendus"; or "L'´Epitaphe de Villon"; or "Fr`eres humains"] ):
    Name this poem whose speaker implores, "Brothers, men who live afer us, / Let not your hearts be hardened against us" and asks "let no one laugh at our misfortune" when the title group's bones "have become cinder and powder."
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Villon):
    This French poet and criminal wrote "Ballad of the Hanged Men" andincludedtheline "where are the snows of yesteryear?" in his collection Le Testament.
  Part 3 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    Villon's immortal line "where are the snows of yesteryear?" derives from this Pre-Raphaelite poet's English translation of "The Ballad of Dead Ladies". His own poems include "Beata Beatrix".

[B14] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title figure of this poem has seven stars in her hair "like ripe corn" and a voice "like the voice of the stars" and leans out "from the gold bar of heaven" before weeping with "her face between her hands."For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Blessed Damozel"):
    Name this poem about a woman who wishes that "we two" will "lie i' the shadow of / that living mystic tree" and "seek the groves where the living Mary is."
  Part 2 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    "The Blessed Damozel" was written by this founder of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, who wrote the House of Life sonnets. His sister Christina wrote "Goblin Market."
  Part 3 (ans: "My Sister's Sleep"):
    In this Rossetti poem, the speaker's mother proclaims "Glory unto the Newly Born" as the clock strikes midnight on Christmas Eve, when the title character perishes.

[B15] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about the pre-Raphaelite movement, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ophelia):
    This pre-Raphaelite painting by John Everett Millais depicts the suicide of one of Shakespeare's heroines. Her drowned body is pictured floating in a stream, surrounded by flowers.
  Part 2 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    The model used in Ophelia was Elizabeth Siddal, who married this member of the pre-Raphaelites. This man painted The Girlhood of the Virgin Mary and Beata Beatrix.
  Part 3 (ans: The Light of the World):
    In this painting by William Holman Hunt, Jesus, whose head appears in front of the full moon, holds a lantern and knocks on a door with no handle.

[B16] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The members of this movement disliked Sir Joshua Reynolds, and advocating return to a stage of art free of the corrupting influence of the painter of The School of Athens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    Name this English art movement which included William Holman Hunt.
  Part 2 (ans: The Awakening Conscience):
    In this William Holman Hunt painting, a woman jumps up from the lap of her lover, who is sitting in front of a piano. A copy of Edward Lear's arrangement of "Tears, Idle Tears" can be seen on the floor.
  Part 3 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    Another Pre-Raphaelite painter was this man, whose many paintings of Elizabeth Siddal include Beata Beatrix. He also regularly painted Jane Morris and Alexa Wilding. Like his sister, he was also a poet.

[B17] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: He included many poems called "Willowwood" in his collection The House of Life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    Name this author, who wrote about a woman with "five sweet symphonies" named Cecily, Gertrude, Magdalen, Margaret and Rosalys in a poem that describes how the title figure "leaned out from the gold bar of heaven."
  Part 2 (ans: sonnet sequence [Do not prompt on "sonnets" alone.]):
    Rossetti's The House of Life is one of these works, which is a collection of namesake fourteen line poems arranged in a specific order. Other examples include a group of poems by Shakespeare and Astrophil and Stella.
  Part 3 (ans: George Meredith):
    This other author wrote a celebrated sonnet sequence that begins "By this he knew she wept with waking eyes." In addition to Modern Love, he wrote the novel The Egoist.
