=== STOCK CLUES: The Blessed Damozel ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: golden hair [or a lock of hair; or a woman's hair; prompt on locks before "Lock"] (The first sentence refers to Dante Gabriel Rossetti's "Jenny." Rossetti also opened Siddal's coffin, and wrote "the stars in her hair were seven" in "The Blessed Damozel.")
  - The narrator of a dramatic monologue about a "lazy laughing languid" character places gold coins into this substance. [PWR]
  - This substance was the "first gold" according to the sonnet "Body's Beauty," which describes it surrounding Adam's heart.
  - An author trying to recover a manuscript supposedly found that this substance had filled Elizabeth Siddal's coffin after her death, an event later linked to a poem that describes seven stars in this substance. [PWR]
  - Lacking money, (*) Laura trades a "tear more rare than pearl" and this substance for fruit in "Goblin Market." This substance is made into a constellation at the end of a poem in which a Sylph is sliced in half trying to protect it from the Baron.
  - For 10 points, name this physical feature that is cut to signify Belinda's violation in Alexander Pope's "The Rape of the Lock." [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 MUSES III (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: "The Blessed Damozel"
  - The author of this poem replaced its use of italics with parentheticals following its initial publication in the collection Songs of the Art Catholic. [PWR]
  - The author's friend Thomas Gordon Hake objected to this poem's unscientific imagery calling Earth a "fretful midge" spinning in the void.
  - This poem's speaker envisions angels playing "citherns and citoles" as he meets (+) Christ "when round his head the aureole clings." A woman in this poem imagines stumbling upon a "golden thread" being woven by a circle of women "whose names / Are five sweet symphonies," surrounding the "lady Mary." This poem's speaker imagines "souls, mounting up to God" (*) streaming past his lover "like thin flames," and, in the last line of this poem, he remarks "I heard her tears." The title woman of this poem carries "three lilies in her hand" and has seven stars in her hair "yellow like ripe corn." For 10 points, name this poem titled for a woman who "lean'd out / From the gold bar of Heaven," written by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "The Blessed Damozel" 5
  - This poem describes a group that "fashion the birth-robes for them who are just born, being dead" and that group are the handmaidens of Mary, "whose names are five sweet symphonies".
  - The title character of this poem declares that "I myself shall teach to him... /The songs I sing here" and "I'll take his hand and go with him/ To the deep wells of light...
  - And bathe there is god's sight".
  - This poem describes its subject as being surrounded by lovers who "spoke evermore among themselves/ Their heart-remember'd names", and it was first published in 1850 in The Germ.
  - Its title character's hair "was yellow like ripe corn" and "her eyes were deeper than the depth/ Of waters still'd at even", and in the first stanza she "lean'd out from the gold bar of heaven" and "had three lilies in her hand".
  - For 10 points, name this poem by Dante Gabriel Rossetti that inspired a similarly titled painting. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "The Blessed Damozel"
  - This poem compares a woman's voice to "the voice the stars had when they sang together" after that woman sees "time like a pulse shake fierce through all the worlds." One character in this poem imagines lying in the shadow of the "living mystic tree" before meeting "Cecily, Gertrude, Magdalen, Margaret, and Rosalys," the five handmaidens of "the lady Mary." In this poem's final stanza, the central character lays her face between her hands and weeps, causing the speaker, in parentheses, to respond "I heard her tears." Its main character stands on "the rampart of God's house" and holds "three lilies in her hand," and thinks of reuniting with her lover in the afterlife.
  - This poem is named for a woman who "lean'd out from the gold bar of heaven." For 10 points, name this poem about a grieving angel by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Parenthesized stanzas in this poem reveal the thoughts of its speaker, to whom it has been "ten years of years" since his wife died. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Blessed Damozel"):
    Name this poem inspired by Edgar Allan Poe's "The Raven" and by the early death of its author's wife. This poem's title figure leans out "from the gold bar of Heaven."
  Part 2 (ans: Rossetti [or Christina Rossetti; or Dante Gabriel Rossetti]):
    "The Blessed Damozel" is by an author from this family who exhumed the grave of his wife, Elizabeth Siddal, to retrieve buried poems. His sister from this family with the first name Christina wrote "Goblin Market."
  Part 3 (ans: human hair):
    "The Blessed Damozel" describes how "the stars" in this material "were seven." In "Goblin Market," Lizzie trades "a tear more rare than pearl" and some of this material for the goblins' fruits.

[B2] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the second and third endings to The French Lieutenant's Woman, this person employs Sarah Woodruff as an assistant after he meets her and her daughter Lalange on the street. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti] (The poem is "The Blessed Damozel.")):
    Name this Victorian poet. A poem by this author that was intended as a sequel to Poe's "The Raven" describes a figure with "three lilies in her hand" who "lean'd out / from the gold bar of heaven."
  Part 2 (ans: "Goblin Market"):
    Rossetti illustrated the frontispiece of this poem by his sister Christina. The title characters of this poem implore the sisters Laura and Lizzie to "come buy, come buy" their fruit.
  Part 3 (ans: Jenny [accept "Jenny Kiss'd Me"]):
    A Dante Gabriel Rossetti poem describes a person with this name as "fond of a kiss and fond of a guinea." A poem by Leigh Hunt muses that though "health and wealth have miss'd me," a woman with this name "kiss'd me."

[B3] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this poem saw "Time like a pulse shake fierce / Through all the worlds," and "spoke as when / The stars sang in their spheres." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Blessed Damozel"):
    Name this poem narrated by a woman who "leaned out / From the gold bar of Heaven," praying to be reunited with her still-living lover.
  Part 2 (ans: Rossetti [or Dante Gabriel Rossetti; or Christina Rossetti]):
    "The Blessed Damozel" was written by an author with this last name whose sister, Christina, penned the poem "Goblin Market."
  Part 3 (ans: the sonnet [do not accept or prompt on any other answers]):
    The introductory poem in Dante Gabriel Rossetti's collection The House of Life calls this form of writing "a moment's monument." Wordsworth slammed critics for being mindless of its "just honours" in a poem titled "Scorn not" this form of writing.

[B4] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman tells a new bride "Take my share of a fickle heart / Mine of a paltry love," to which the bride responds "I'll love him till he loves me best," in this author's poem "Maude Clare". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christina Rossetti):
    Name this poet who gave instructions for when she would be "gone far away into the silent land" in her poem "Remember." She also wrote the words to the Christmas carol "In the Bleak Midwinter".
  Part 2 (ans: "Goblin Market"):
    Christina Rossetti also wrote this sexually charged poem about Lizzie and Laura, which includes the line "For there is no friend like a sister." Its title figures give the repeated cry "Come buy, come buy".
  Part 3 (ans: "The Blessed Damozel"):
    Rossetti's brother, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, wrote this poem about a woman who leans out "from the gold bar of Heaven," with three lilies in her hand and seven stars in her hair.

[B5] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A predella depicting a black-cloaked man leaning back with his hands clasped behind his head was added to this painting at the behest of its commissioner, William Graham. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Blessed Damozel):
    Name this 1877 painting whose title woman, modeled on Alexa Wilding, has seven stars in her hair and, as in the poem it was based on, leans out from the gold bar of Heaven..
  Part 2 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    The Blessed Damozel is a work of this poet and painter, who founded the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood with his friends John Everett Millais and William Holman Hunt.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Siddal):
    Rossetti's painting Beata Beatrix was modeled on this woman, his wife, who caught severe pneumonia after spending hours on end in a cold bathtub modeling for Millais's Ophelia.

[B6] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title figure of this poem has seven stars in her hair "like ripe corn" and a voice "like the voice of the stars" and leans out "from the gold bar of heaven" before weeping with "her face between her hands."For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Blessed Damozel"):
    Name this poem about a woman who wishes that "we two" will "lie i' the shadow of / that living mystic tree" and "seek the groves where the living Mary is."
  Part 2 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    "The Blessed Damozel" was written by this founder of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, who wrote the House of Life sonnets. His sister Christina wrote "Goblin Market."
  Part 3 (ans: "My Sister's Sleep"):
    In this Rossetti poem, the speaker's mother proclaims "Glory unto the Newly Born" as the clock strikes midnight on Christmas Eve, when the title character perishes.
