=== STOCK CLUES: George Caleb Bingham ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: George Caleb Bingham
  - This artist created a portrait of the creator of the Abraham Lincoln statue in the Capitol Rotunda, Vinnie Ream, playing a harp.
  - A family pleads with a group of "redleg" troops who plan to burn their house in a painting this man created to attack General Thomas Ewing, who forcibly depopulated part of this man's home state with his Order No. 11.
  - A jovial man wears three hats while another man reads off of a piece of paper in the third painting in a series by this man that also includes Stump Speaking and The County Election.
  - In his most famous painting, the viewer is stared at by a man wearing a Phrygian cap, a half-Native American boy leaning on a pile of pelts, and a rather feline- looking bear on a leash.
  - For 10 points, name this self-taught luminist who painted Fur Traders Descending The Missouri. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The element of chance in this painting is symbolized by two boys tossing a knife on the ground and by a man on the steps flipping a coin, whereas underlying violence is personified by a bandaged man hanging his head. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The County Election):
    Name this 1852 painting whose artist mockingly bestowed a shiny top hat upon E. D. Sappington, who had bested the artist in the title small-town Missouri event.
  Part 2 (ans: George Caleb Bingham):
    The County Election was painted by frontiersman, whose river scenes include Jolly Flatboatmen in Port and Fur Traders Descending the Missouri.
  Part 3 (ans: Eastman Johnson):
    This fellow American student of Bingham's at the Dusseldorf Academy and co-founder of the Met painted slaves in a happy-looking domestic scene beneath an utterly dilapidated house in his canvas Negro Life at the South, which aroused both pro- and anti-slavery sentiments.

[B2] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist of Storm in the Mountains painted many views of Yosemite National Park and has a lake in Colorado named after him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Name this German-born member of the Hudson River School.
  Part 2 (ans: luminism):
    Bierstadt occasionally painted in this style which succeeded the Hudson River School. This term was coined by John Baur in 1954 to describe works of John Frederick Kensett and Fitz Hugh Lane which have dominant skies and clear light.
  Part 3 (ans: George Caleb Bingham):
    Another occasional luminist was this painter of Shooting for the Beef and Fur Traders Descending the Missouri.

[B3] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a man in a red shirt raising his arms and dancing on top of a ship in The Jolly Flatboatmen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Caleb Bingham):
    Name this 19th century American artist of Shooting for the Beef, whose other paintings of men on boats include Raftsmen Playing Cards and Fur Traders Descending the Missouri.
  Part 2 (ans: county elections):
    Bingham painted a series of works portraying one of these events. One of them includes a blue standard saying "the will of the people is the supreme law," and depicts a crowd of people drinking and discussing it.
  Part 3 (ans: American Art-Union [or AA-U]):
    Fur Traders Descending the Missouri was originally titled French Trader-Half Breed Son, but was renamed by this organization, which exhibited and sold many of Bingham's paintings. It was founded in 1839 to support contemporary art in the United States, and its members included Emanuel Leutze, Asher Durand, and Thomas Cole.
