=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: George Caleb Bingham ===
(Questions where 'George Caleb Bingham' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 3 found, 16 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2020 Scattergories (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: fur trade [or fur trapping; accept Fur Traders Descending the Missouri or The Trappers' Return]
  - A worker in this industry grapples with an enemy as both of them are about to plunge into a chasm in The Death Struggle by Charles Deas [dees], who often painted workers in this industry.
  - A painting of people in this industry was originally titled for a man and his "half-breed son," but the title was changed by the American Art-Union, who feared it would cause offense.
  - That painting was reworked by the artist into an 1851 painting titled for the (*) "return" of workers in this industry.
  - A worker in this industry wears a pink-and-white striped shirt and a liberty cap in a luminist painting which also features an animal which is often thought to be a cat but which, according to the Met, is actually a bear cub.
  - For 10 points, a painting by George Caleb Bingham shows two workers in what industry "descending the Missouri"?

[TM2] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: playing cards
  - It's not glass, but these objects are paired with "fruit dish" in the name of a Georges Braque painting.
  - A painting by Pieter de Hooch shows two soldiers using these objects.
  - Two men sitting on a bench, one of them wearing blue jeans, use these objects while two men in green hats watch in a painting by George Caleb Bingham.
  - One Caravaggio painting that features a boy with a large (*) plume in his hat has two of these objects stuck in his belt behind him.
  - Paul Cezanne painted a series of paintings named after people who use these objects, featuring two men in competition, one smoking a pipe.
  - For 10 points, name these objects of which there are 52 of in a deck.

[TM3] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: playing cards [or playing card games; accept more specific answers like playing poker or cheating at card games]
  - In a Jan Steen painting showing a quarrel over this activity, a man in blue extends his knife at a man who is being restrained by a woman.
  - Two raftsmen sit on a bench and engage in this activity in a George Caleb Bingham painting.
  - Four pipes hang on the wall of a painting where three men partake in this activity, which is one of three scenes of people engaged in this activity by (*) Paul Cezanne.
  - A backgammon table rests to the left of people partaking in this activity in a painting where a man with a glove holds up three fingers to signal to a confederate who has a pink flower in his cap.
  - For 10 points, name this activity in which a man cheats in a Caravaggio painting by storing a six of clubs behind his back.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a drunken white man dancing wildly amid a circle of revelers while a dejected black man stands alone in a corner in his allegorical painting Barroom Scene. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Sidney Mount):
    Name this early American genre painter of Bargaining for a Horse and The Bone Player.
  Part 2 (ans: William Hogarth):
    Mount honed his skills in painting genre scenes by copying prints by this British painter of Marriage A-la-Mode.
  Part 3 (ans: boatmen [or oarsmen; or raftsmen; accept flatboatmen; accept Raftsmen Playing Cards; prompt on sailors; prompt on fur traders]):
    Mount's contemporary George Caleb Bingham is best known for his genre scenes depicting "jolly" men in this profession. A painting by Bingham depicts men in this profession playing cards.

[BM2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A bust of this man appears next to a woman wearing a blue turban in a portrait by George Caleb Bingham. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abraham Lincoln (The second statue is by Daniel Chester French.)):
    Name this man who was sculpted along with Samuel Kirkwood and Sequoyah by the self-taught artist Vinnie Ream for the US Capitol building. The Piccirilli ("PEE-chee-REE-lee") Brothers helped a different artist create a statue of this man.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago):
    Late in her life, Vinnie Ream exhibited some of her sculptures in this city at the World's Columbian Exposition.
  Part 3 (ans: Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney [or Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney] (She founded New York's Whitney Museum.)):
    This other sculptor was neighbors with Daniel Chester French when she created a memorial to the Titanic disaster in Washington, D.C. She later founded a namesake museum with the help of her secretary, Juliana Force.

[BM3] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this series, the title figure rejects Sarah Young and later lands in Bedlam. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Rake's Progress):
    Name this painting series by William Hogarth depicting the fall of Tom Rakewell.
  Part 2 (ans: Marriage a la Mode):
    In the first panel of this other Hogarth series, the bankrupt Earl Squanderfield marries the daughter of the city merchant. In its final scene, their son's wife poisons herself after her lover kills her husband.
  Part 3 (ans: Elections):
    Four works by Hogarth depict "the Humours of" one of these events. Another series about one of these events was painted by George Caleb Bingham.

[BM4] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions on the influence of rivers on American painting, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hudson River School):
    This American artistic movement was named after New York's main river. Paintings from this movement include The Oxbow by Thomas Cole and Niagara Falls by Frederic Edwin Church.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Eakins):
    This painter depicted his mate on the Schuylkill river after winning a rowing competition in Max Schmitt in a Single Scull. Another of his works shows a professor conducting a practical lecture at Jefferson Medical College.
  Part 3 (ans: Fur Traders Descending the Missouri [also accept its original title French Trader & Half-Breed Son]):
    Debate continues over whether the leftmost figure in this 1845 genre painting is a bear cub or a cat. In this painting by George Caleb Bingham, the two title figures sit lazily in a canoe, rowing down the title river.

[BM5] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In George Caleb Bingham's version, the central figure is seen sitting on horse, as opposed to the more popular version which shows the central figure standing in front of a man holding an American flag. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Washington Crossing the Delaware):
    Name this scene made famous by Emanuel Leutze, which shows the Continental army rowing through an ice-clogged river.
  Part 2 (ans: Daughters of Revolution):
    This work of Grant Wood depicts Leutze's version of Washington Crossing the Delaware behind three old ladies, one of whom is holding a tea cup.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Sully):
    Approximately 30 years before Leutze's Washington Crossing the Delaware, this American artist completed his Passage of the Delaware, which depicts the moments before Washington dismounted to join his comrades in the crossing. His portrait of Andrew Jackson has appeared on the 20 dollar bill since 19

[BM6] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A mug pours a drink on the left of "Outreaching Hands," one section of this larger work commissioned by the New School for Social Research. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: America Today Murals):
    Identify this nine panel mural created in 1930 that features a train, zeppelin and other forms of transit in its "Instruments of Power" panel. Other panels include "Mid-West" and "Coal".
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hart Benton):
    This painter of the America Today mural depicted a ship leaving port in She's Off, which shares a common theme with his painting, Cut the Line. He was also the teacher of Jackson Pollock at the Art Students League.
  Part 3 (ans: Animal Fur Trading [accept word forms]):
    Another panel in the Indiana Murals pairs people in this profession with pioneers. A man and his "half-breed" son appear in a George Caleb Bingham painting showing figures in this profession "descending the Missouri."
