=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Lakme ===
(Questions where 'Lakme' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 9 found, 53 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 18 found, 54 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: flowers [or "Flower Duet"; or "Flower Song"]
  - In an aria about one of these objects, one character notes, "why did fate / Ever decree we two should meet!" as he stands accused of blasphemy.
  - In Act IV of Adriana Lecouvreur , the poisoned Adriana throws some of these objects into the fire before Maurizio embraces her.
  - A character sings about these objects that "already cast their shadow" in a B major aria beginning  "D-sharp, C-sharp, D-sharp, E." The English horn plays a "fate motif" before an aria titled for one of these objects in which Don Jose sings of a "dry and faded" one in a jail cell.
  - They're not bells, but the maid Mallika and the daughter of a Brahmin priest sing a duet titled for these objects.
  - A "Song" from Carmen is titled after, for 10 points, what objects that, in a duet from Leo Delibes's Lakme, "bank in bloom"?

[TM2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: (Clement Philibert) Leo Delibes
  - One ballet by this composer prominently uses solo alto saxophone in its third act's barcarolle.
  - In that ballet, the title character shoots a boy with an arrow that was intended for the god Eros.
  - In a song from an opera by this composer, The G major B section contrasts with a (read slowly) B A-sharp B A-sharp G-sharp (pause) A-sharp B C-sharp ostinato in the A section.
  - Another of this composer's ballets features "The Waltz of the (*) Hours" in the third act before Franz and Swanhilda's wedding.
  - "Sous le dome epais" is sung by the servant Mallika and the title daughter of a brahmin priest, who later sings the "Bell Song," in the most famous piece by this composer of the ballets Sylvia and Coppelia.
  - For 10 points, name this French composer whose opera Lakme includes the "Flower Duet."

[TM3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: flowers [accept chrysanthemums; accept violets; accept jasmine]
  - Manon Lescaut's finale draws on a string quartet named for these objects composed by Giacomo Puccini for the funeral of the Duke of Aosta.
  - After opening a package of these objects, the title character describes them as "poor" and throws some into the fireplace in the opera Adriana Lecouvreur.
  - Above a flowing sixteenth-note accompaniment, the melody (read slowly): long D-sharp, C-sharp - D-sharp - E, opens a song describing a (*) "thick dome" and "dense canopy" of these objects.
  - In Lillias Pastia's inn, Don Jose sings an aria to Carmen about one of these objects that she had given him during her "Habanera." In another opera, the servant Mallika and the title priestess sing a song about these objects as they collect them near a stream.
  - For 10 points, what objects name a celebrated duet from Leo Delibes's opera Lakme?

[TM4] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]
  - It's not Lakme, but during a Flower Duet in this opera, the soprano and her mezzo servant pluck every flower in the garden to decorate a house overlooking the harbor.
  - In Act 1 of this opera, relatives at a wedding shout "Hou!" at the protagonist for her conversion at the Mission.
  - The title 15-year-old soprano in this opera says that her lover will call her "little wife" and "scent of verbena" as she waits for a thread of smoke from a naval ship in "Un bel di, vedremo." That aria is delivered to allay Suzuki's doubts by a woman who calls herself "Madama B.
  - F.
  - Pinkerton." For 10 points, identify this opera by Giacomo Puccini in which Cio-Cio San  commits seppuku.

[TM5] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Republic of India
  - Patricia Rozario repopularized opera in this home-country of hers with a 2017 production of Il Matrimonio Segreto at its recently-reopened Royal Opera House.
  - David Murphy premiered the opera and symphony of a musician from this country who collaborated with Philip Glass on the 1990 album Passages.
  - A folktale from this country inspired an opera commemorating Mozart's 250th birthday that concerns a Prince's infatuation with a girl who transforms into the title object.
  - This country is the setting of an opera containing a barcarolle for two sopranos that describes a "thick dome" of "white jasmine," as well as (*) John Adams's A Flowering Tree.
  - This country's bayaderes  title a Ludwig Minkus ballet.
  - This country is home to the conductor of the 1990 Three Tenors concert in Rome who also led the LA Philharmonic in the 1960s and 1970s.
  - In an opera set here, the title princess lures the officer Gerald by singing the Bell Song; that princess also sings the Flower Duet with her servant Mallika.
  - For 10 points, name this setting of Leo Delibes's  Lakme, the home of Zubin Mehta and Ravi Shankar.

[TM6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: priestess (es) [accept more specific answers such as priestess of Brahma or priestess of Artemis]
  - An operatic title character with this occupation sings the aria "Je t'implore et je tremble" (zhay tam-plore ay zhay trahm-bluh) while preparing to execute a captive.
  - The opera in which that character of this profession appears was written at the height of the composer's rivalry with Niccolo Piccinni, who wrote an opera on the same subject.
  - A character with this occupation recounts the story of a lowborn daughter who saved a stranger from wild animals by distracting them with the sound of her wand.
  - Another character with this occupation is remembered by the singers of the duet "Au fond du temple saint" (aw fahn duh tahm-pluh sahnt).
  - The glockenspiel echoes one of these characters in the coloratura aria "Ou va la jeune Hindoue" (ooh vah zhoon ahn-doo), better known as the "Bell Song." That character of this profession sings the "Flower Duet" with her servant Mallika and falls in love with the British officer Gerald before commit
  - For 10 points, what occupation is held by Leila in Bizet's The Pearl Fishers, and by the title characters of Gluck's Iphigenie en Tauride and Leo Delibes's Lakme?

[TM7] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: (Clement Philibert) Leo Delibes
  - In one opera by this composer, a tenor asks his beloved to forget the world and join him in the forest in "Ah!
  - Viens, dans la foret profonde".
  - A solo alto saxophone plays the main melody of the "Barcarolle" from Act III of one ballet by this composer, which also features a "pizzicato" divertissement as its most famous movement.
  - In this composer's most famous operatic selection, which is in B major and 6/8 time, two (*) sopranos sing extended melismas in parallel thirds.
  - Orion kidnaps the title heroine of one ballet by him; Aminta loves that title nymph of Diana.
  - Mallika helps the protagonist gather plants by the riverside in an opera by him, in which the priest Nilankantha forces his daughter to sing "Ou va la jeune Hindoue" in order to lure the British soldier Gerald to his death for trespassing on sacred Brahmin grounds.
  - For 10 points, the "Bell Song" and the "Flower Duet" appear in what French composer's opera Lakme?

[TM8] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]
  - This opera's premiere at La Scala was marred by the false exclamation that the lead soprano, Rosina Storchio, was pregnant with Arturo Toscanini's child when her dress blew in the wind.
  - It's not Lakme, but this opera sees the title character and her servant sing the Flower Duet while decorating a house.
  - An aria in this opera tells of standing on a hill and predicting the appearance of a (*) white ship.
  - The love duet "Bimba, bimba" is sung in this opera, whose title character also sings "Un bel di" as she awaits the return of her husband in this opera.
  - At the end of this opera, Pinkerton rushes in a moment too late to save his wife Cio-Cio San from committing suicide with her father's knife.
  - For 10 points, name this Giacomo Puccini opera set in Japan.

[TM9] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leo Delibes
  - In one of this composer's operas, the peasant Benoit pretends to be the Marquis de Montcontour's son in exchange for the hand of the Marquis's maid Javotte.
  - This composer of La Roit l'a Dit was commissioned to write the "Pas des Fleurs" for Adolphe Adam's ballet Le Corsaire.
  - He used a bolero castanet rhythm in his setting of de Musset's poetry, Les Filles de Cadiz, and included a string pizzicato in a ballet about the shepherd Aminta.
  - In another of his ballets, Swanhilde impersonates the giant doll with which Frantz has fallen in love.
  - In one of his operas, the maid Mallika serves the Brahmin Nilakantha, whose daughter sings the "Bell Song." For 10 points, name this French composer of the ballets Sylvia and Coppelia, who included the "Flower Duet" in his opera Lakme.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 Purdue IM Housewrite (2024) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Act 1 of an opera, Don Jose is thrown one of these items and later claims in an aria nicknamed for it that it stayed with him in prison. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flowers [accept "Flower Song"; accept "Flower Duet", accept cassia, jasmine, rose, or lotus]):
    Name this type of item. In another opera, a duet named after these things is sung by Lakme and her servant Mallika.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmen):
    Don Jose is given a flower by the titular character of this Georges Bizet opera. This opera also contains the "Habanera" and the "Toreador Song."
  Part 3 (ans: France [or French Republic; or Republique francaise]):
    Georges Bizet and the composer of Lakme, Leos Delibes, are both from this country, where Carmen premiered at its Opera-Comique in Paris.

[BM2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jean-Christophe Maillot ("my-YO") explored the idea of AI in dance in his adaptation of this ballet, in which the title character's unsynchronized movements gradually become more coordinated. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Coppelia [accept Coppel-i.A.]):
    Name this ballet. In the Bolshoi production of this ballet, a man with a scythe perches atop a giant clock while dancers in pink, yellow, purple, and black perform the Waltz of the Hours.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Delibes ("duh-LEEB")):
    The score for Maillot's Coppel-i.A. ("co-PAIL ee ah") was adapted from the original by this composer. Mallika sings the "Flower Duet" with the title character in this composer's opera Lakme.
  Part 3 (ans: The Sleeping Beauty [or Spyashchaya krasavitsa]):
    Maillot won the Nijinsky Award for his ballet La Belle, inspired by this Tchaikovsky ballet. In this ballet, Aurora dances with four suitors in the Rose Adagio before pricking her finger on a spindle and falling into a 100-year slumber.

[BM3] 2023 British Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This song has been used for British Airways advertising and inflight boarding since the 1980s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Flower Duet" [or "Sous le dome epais"]):
    Name this B major song that discusses a 'thick dome of jasmine'. This song is sung primarily in thirds by the maid Mallika and the title character of the opera it appears in.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Delibes [or Clement Philibert Leo Delibes]):
    The "Flower Duet" is part of this composer's opera Lakme. This French composer also wrote the ballets Coppelia and Sylvia.
  Part 3 (ans: Carmen):
    This opera by Georges Bizet ("BEE-zay") contains a lyrical "Flower Song" sung by Don Jose as he professes his love for the title character. The title character of this opera enters with a seductive "Habanera" aria, whilst Escamillo later sings about bullfighting in the "Toreador Song".

[BM4] 2022 Boilermaker Spring Novice (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Leo Delibes's ("lay-o de-leeb's") opera Lakme lay in relative obscurity until its revival in the 1990s after a British Airways commercial featured an adaptation of this song. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Flower Duet"):
    Name this popular song from Act 1 of Lakme. A soprano and mezzo-soprano feature in this duet about the beauty of the title objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmen):
    Don Jose laments his withered love for the title woman in this other opera's aria "The Flower Song." This Bizet ("bee-zay") opera features songs nicknamed "Habanera" and "Toreador Song."
  Part 3 (ans: Richard (Georg) Strauss [prompt on just Strauss]):
    In this composer's opera Der Rosenkavalier, Octavian delivers a silver flower to Sophie. This composer also wrote the infamously difficult, erotic "Dance of the Seven Veils" in the opera Salome. ("sal-o-may").

[BM5] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Bartok frequently employed one type of this technique that involved snapping the string against the fingerboard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pizzicato ("pit-see-KAH-toe")):
    Name this technique of plucking the strings of an instrument instead of using a bow.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Delibes [or Clement Philibert Leo Delibes]):
    This composer wrote a commonly-excerpted pizzicato movement in Act III of his ballet Sylvia. The title priestess and her servant Mallika sing a "Flower Duet" in his opera Lakme.
  Part 3 (ans: left hand pizzicato [accept mano sinistra; DO NOT accept "hammering down"]):
    Virtuosic pieces such as Paganini's 24th Caprice and Sarasate's Gypsy Airs make use of this type of pizzicato, which is denoted with a + (plus) sign above the note.

[BM6] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Milhaud ("mee-YO") was accused of literally setting text from a catalogue of these objects in a song cycle, and Blanche and Constance make a cross out of these objects in an interlude in Poulenc's ("poo-LANK's") opera Dialogues of the Carmelites. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flowers [accept "Flower Duet" or "Duo des fleurs" or Catalogue de fleurs]):
    Name these objects that Lakme and her servant Mallika gather by a river while singing a lush duet in Act 1 of a French Romantic opera set in British India.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Delibes ("duh-LEEB")):
    The "Flower Duet" is from the opera Lakme by this composer of the ballets Sylvia and Coppelia.
  Part 3 (ans: clarinet):
    In Olivier Messiaen's ("oh-leev-YAY mess-YAWN's") Turangalila-Symphonie, two of these instruments introduce the slow, dissonant "flower" theme, converging toward each other. This instrument's skittish trills and staccato repeated notes open the "Liturgie de cristal" first movement of Messiaen's Quar

[BM7] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The premiere of this work was delayed after the librettist Maurice Maeterlinck found out that his lover Georgette Leblanc wouldn't be singing one of the title roles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pelleas et Melisande):
    Name this Debussy opera which sees a love triangle between Prince Golaud and the two title characters.
  Part 2 (ans: Parsifal):
    Pelleas et Melisande is often seen as a reaction against the works of Wagner, and particularly this opera about an Arthurian knight who heals Anfortas' wound with the holy spear before unveiling the Holy Grail.
  Part 3 (ans: Opera Comique [accept Theatre national de l'Opera-Comique]):
    Pelleas et Melisande was first performed at this Parisian Opera House, which also saw the premieres of Carmen and Lakme.

[BM8] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: You are an opera singer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: arias [DO NOT reveal otherwise, but accept specific types like coloratura arias]):
    The bulk of your showpieces are these sorts of expressive melodies for a single voice. Examples include "Nessun dorma" from Turandot and "O mio babbino caro" from Gianni Schicchi [JAH-nee SKEE-kee].
  Part 2 (ans: recitative [reh-sit-uh-TEEV]):
    The arias you perform are interspersed with passages of this type, which use the cadence and rhythm of ordinary speech. Its secco, or unaccompanied, type comprises the bulk of Claudio Monteverdi's operas.
  Part 3 (ans: coloratura):
    You may perform complex arias written for this style of singing that uses virtuosic trills, tremolos, leaps, vibrato, and other enhancements. It is used by the title character of Lakme.

[BM9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This duet opens with lyrics about the "jasmine white" under a "leafy dome." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Flower Duet" [or Duo des fleurs; or Sous le dome epais]):
    Name this duet for sopranos from Leo Delibes's Lakme, which is most commonly titled for the objects that Lakme and Malika have gone near a river to obtain.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmen):
    In the first act of this Georges Bizet opera, the title gypsy throws a flower to the Corporal of the Dragoons, Don Jose ("zho-SAY").
  Part 3 (ans: Salome (by Richard Strauss)):
    This opera's title character promises the love-struck Narraboth a "little green flower" in exchange for his help. It opens with a rising clarinet scale and the "obsessed" title character's leitmotif, and ends with a "sickening chord" framed by C-sharp major.

[BM10] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one ballet by this man, Swanhilda shakes wheat by her ear and realizes that Franz no longer loves her when she does not hear it rattle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leo Delibes):
    Name this composer, who framed the Sandman story as the ballet Coppelia. He also wrote an opera featuring the Bell Song and the Flower Duet, Lakme.
  Part 2 (ans: Sylvia):
    This other ballet by Delibes takes a classical theme. In it, the title character is a nymph who is captured by Orion but falls in love with Aminta.
  Part 3 (ans: India):
    Delibes' opera Lakme is set in this country. Actual dance styles from this country include Kathak, Sattriya, and Chhau, and its characteristic mudras, or hand gestures, are used to communicate through dance.

[BM11] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This scene begins with 24 ballerinas entering single file down a ramp and slowly repeating a series of 38 arabesques in unison before performing a waltz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Kingdom of the Shades"):
    Name this difficult ballet blanc set to the music of Ludwig Minkus. Its title characters represent the male lead's opium-induced hallucinations.
  Part 2 (ans: La Bayadere [or The Temple Dancer]):
    This ballet features "The Kingdom of the Shades" after Solor takes opium to console himself after the death of the title character, Nikiya. It was choreographed by Marius Petipa, and premiered in 1877.
  Part 3 (ans: India):
    La Bayadere takes place in this country, whose perceived exoticism made it a popular setting in the late Romantic Era. Other works set here include Leo Delibes' opera Lakme.

[BM12] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This ballet includes a mazurka and a czardas in its first act, and it concludes with a "Galop Finale." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Coppelia):
    Name this ballet in which Swanhilde disguises herself as the title character.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Delibes):
    Coppelia was written by this French composer who wrote the "Flower Duet" for his opera Lakme.
  Part 3 (ans: The Nutcracker [or Shchelkunchik; or Casse-Noisette]):
    Like Coppelia, this other ballet was based on a story by E. T. A. Hoffmann. This ballet set on Christmas Eve features such characters as the Mouse King and the Sugar Plum Fairy.

[BM13] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title character of this ballet has a dream in which the knights Jean de Brienne and Abderakhman duel each other. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Raymonda):
    Name this ballet inspired by Hungarian tradition, in which the title character marries Jean de Brienne.
  Part 2 (ans: Marius Petipa):
    Raymonda was choreographed by this man, who also choreographed La Bayadere. He frequently collaborated with Cesare Pugni on other ballets, such as The Little Humpbacked Horse.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Delibes [or Clement Philibert Leo Delibes] 7):
    Marius Petipa also choreographed the ballet Coppelia, whose music was written by this composer. He also composed the music to Lakme.

[BM14] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Romantic-period opera set near the Indian subcontinent, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]):
    In this composer's opera The Pearl Fishers, Zurga and Nadir sing the duet "Au fond du temple saint" before having their friendship threatened by a mutual love for Leila.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Delibes [or Clement Philibert Leo Delibes]):
    The title character of this composer's opera Lakme falls in love with Gerald, a British officer, shortly after singing the "Flower Duet" with her servant Mallika.
  Part 3 (ans: France [or the French Republic; or le Republique francaise]):
    Bizet and Delibes were composers from this modern-day country, which is the setting of Giacomo Meyerbeer's opera The Huguenots.

[BM15] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Characters in this work include a huntsman named Hilarion, and the title role was originally performed by Carlotta Grisi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giselle, ou les Wilis):
    Identify this ballet with a libretto by Theophile Gautier and Jules-Henri Vernoy de Saint-Georges. Adolphe Adam composed its music.
  Part 2 (ans: flowers):
    Giselle uses one of these objects to determine if Albrecht really loves her in the ballet's first act. A duet named for these objects is sung by Mallika and the title character in the opera Lakme.
  Part 3 (ans: Count Albrecht of Silesia (accept Loys)):
    Giselle dies because she cannot be with this man, a duke who is betrothed to Bathilde.

[BM16] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this ballet, Swanhilde pretends to be the title figure, and at her wedding three different people offer to pay damages owed to the Doctor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Coppelia):
    Name this ballet based on the short stories "The Doll" and "The Sandman" in which that doctor tries to sacrifice Franz to bring the title doll to life.
  Part 2 (ans: Clement Philbert Leo Delibes):
    This composer, who may have written Charles Gounod's Faust, wrote the music to Coppelia that also wrote the operas The King Has Spoken and included a "Flower Duet" in his Lakme.
  Part 3 (ans: Sylvia, ou La nymphe de Diane):
    The title woman of this ballet by Delibes is struck by Eros causing her to pine for Aminta, before she is kidnapped by Orion.

[BM17] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Near the end of this ballet's first act, Franz dances a czardas with Rosika in an effort to make Swanhilda jealous. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Coppelia):
    Name this ballet, in which Franz falls in love with a mechanical doll.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Delibes):
    Coppelia was written by this French composer, who included the "Flower Duet" in his opera Lakme.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Frederick Ashton):
    In 1952, this British choreographer revived Delibes' ballet Sylvia. He was the principal choreographer of the Royal Ballet from 1933 to 1970, and incorporated traditional English folk dances into his version of La fille mal gardee.

[BM18] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Georges Bizet reworked his incidental music to this novel into two orchestral suites, and it was first published a year after Le Petit Chose as part of Tales from My Windmill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L'Arlesienne [or L'Arlesiana or The Girl from Arles]):
    Identify this work of Alphonse Daudet whose most famous operatic treatment, which sees Frederico's self-defenestration over the cheating title character, was composed by Francesco Cilea.
  Part 2 (ans: Flower):
    The title character of Cilea's Adriana Lecouvreur dies after kissing poisoned objects of this type. The title character performs a duet named for these objects with Malika in Delibes's Lakme, while a specific type of this general object makes Octavian the title character in Der Rosenkavalier.
  Part 3 (ans: Verismo):
    Cilea's works, like Umberto Giordano's Andrea Chenier, are notable examples of this operatic genre often marked by pronounced naturalism. It is most famously exemplified by Mascagni's Cavelleria Rusticana.
