=== STOCK CLUES: Lawrence Ferlinghetti ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 1 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Lawrence Ferlinghetti
  - One of this author's poems describes "a real live democratic dog" with "something to say about ontology" which looks "like a living questionmark / into the great gramophone of puzzling existence." Another of this author's poems declares "Yes the world is the best place of all" before warning "but right in the middle of it comes the smiling mortician." This author wrote a poem named for a place where the speaker "first fell in love with unreality," which ends with the lines "Outside the leaves were falling and they cried Too soon! too soon!" This author compared a poet to an acrobat climbing "on rime / to a high wire of his own making" in "Constantly Risking Absurdity." Another poem by this author of "the pennycandy store behind the El" claims that the moment when people attained the title of "suffering humanity" is captured in "Goya's greatest scenes." For 10 points, name this Beat poet who founded the City Lights Bookstore and wrote A Coney Island of the Mind. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Note to players: Two answers required. One of these two poets was arrested alongside Shigeyoshi Murao for publishing a poem by the other. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti AND Allen Ginsberg [or Lawrence Monsanto Ferlinghetti AND Irwin Allen Ginsberg]):
    Name these two poets who came into contact after one of them, the author who later published A Coney Island of the Mind, heard an incomplete version of a poem by the other at the Six Gallery Reading.
  Part 2 (ans: "Howl"):
    Ferlinghetti was arrested while trying to secretly publish this poem by Ginsberg which opens, "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness."
  Part 3 (ans: Gary Snyder):
    At the Six Gallery, the poem "A Berry Feast" was read by this Beat author who later published the collection Turtle Island.

[B2] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author is repeatedly analogized to Ti-Jean ("tee zhan") in a poem that repeats, "There is a garden in the memory of America." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jack Kerouac [or Jean-Louis Lebris de Kerouac]):
    Name this author, the subject of a "canticle" set in Lowell, Massachusetts. This poet's warped perception of Buddhism is displayed in the long poem Mexico City Blues.
  Part 2 (ans: "Howl"):
    Kerouac's muddled Buddhism also inspired his novel The Dharma Bums, which fictionalizes the Six Gallery reading of this long Allen Ginsberg poem beginning, "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness."
  Part 3 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti [or Lawrence Monsanto Ferlinghetti]):
    This poet of "Canticle of Jack Kerouac" attended the Six Gallery reading along with Kerouac. This poet described a "new rebirth of wonder" in his poem "I Am Waiting."

[B3] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This collection was described as "the most extraordinary piece of wit and wisdom that America has yet contributed" in a letter by Ralph Waldo Emerson to its author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leaves of Grass):
    Name this collection which contains the poem "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd."
  Part 2 (ans: the beginning of a great career [prompt on beginning by asking "beginning of what?"; prompt on starting a job or beginning of a career]):
    In his letter, Emerson declares "I greet you at" at this point in time to encourage Whitman to continue writing, and notes that Whitman "must have had a long foreground somewhere." The specific phrase is required.
  Part 3 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti AND Alan Ginsberg):
    I Greet You At the Beginning of a Great Career is the title of a book of correspondence between these two 20th century poets, one of whom was the other's main publisher. After the Six Gallery reading, one of these poets telegrammed the other, offering to publish his works in San Francisco.

[B4] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by Gregory Corso whose shape is inspired by one of these objects calls it "a paean an acme of scream / a lyric hat of Mister Thunder." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: atomic bombs):
    Name these objects. The speaker of another poem, dated "Berkeley, January 17, 1956," says to the title country, "I've given you all and now I'm nothing" before telling it to "fuck itself" with one of these objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Beat Generation):
    Gregory Corso and Allen Ginsberg, the authors of the poems "Bomb" and "America," were both members of this counterculture "generation" of the 1950s.
  Part 3 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti [or Lawrence Monsanto Ferlinghetti] (That poem is "Junkman's Obbligato.")):
    This poet witnessed the aftermath of the bombing of Nagasaki while in the Navy. This co-founder of the City Lights bookstore described "looking like Walt Whitman / a homemade bomb in the pocket" in a poem from his collection A Coney Island of the Mind.

[B5] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet asks "where are Whitman's wild children" and tells poets "don't wait for the Revolution / or it'll happen without you." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti):
    Name this poet of "Populist Manifesto" who described a "real live barking democratic dog" "with something to say about ontology" in another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas):
    Ferlinghetti's poem "Underwear" uses the line "Do not go naked into that good night," referring to this Welsh poet's "Do not go gentle into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: the world [accept "The World is a Beautiful Place" or "The World is Too Much With Us"]):
    In another poem, Ferlinghetti calls this location "a beautiful place" but "right in the middle of it / comes the smiling / mortician." William Wordsworth declares "I'd rather be / a pagan suckled in a creed outworn" in a sonnet about being tired of this place.

[B6] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this work rides in a truck he dubs Rocinante and claimed that he was not recognized once on a 10,000 mile journey. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Travels with Charley):
    Name this travelogue in which John Steinbeck makes a cross country trip with the title character, a French poodle.
  Part 2 (ans: "A Good Man Is Hard to Find"):
    Another literary pet, the grandmother's cat Pitty Sing causes a crash when it jumps out of a picnic basket onto Bailey's neck in what Flannery O'Connor short story in which the grandmother and family are murdered by The Misfit during a road trip?
  Part 3 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti):
    This American poet wrote that a dog is, "a real realist with a real tale to tell and a real tail to tell it with." He wrote the collection A Coney Island of the Mind and founded San Francisco's City Lights bookstore.

[B7] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of its poems describes a woman who comes up to the speaker but has bad teeth and "really hates poetry." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Coney Island of the Mind):
    Name this collection whose title comes from Henry Miller's Into the Night Life. It contains the poems "I am waiting" and "Constantly risking absurdity."
  Part 2 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti):
    A Coney Island of the Mind is by this jazz-influenced American Beat poet, who co-founded the City Lights bookstore. He was prosecuted on obscenity charges after he published Allen Ginsberg's "Howl."
  Part 3 (ans: Jack Kerouac):
    Ferlinghetti also published several works by this other Beat writer, who chronicled the journeys of Sal Paradise across the United States in On the Road.

[B8] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of this poem sits in Fugazzi's, listening to the "crack of doom on the hydrogen jukebox."For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Howl"):
    Name this Allen Ginsberg poem that opens with the line, "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness."
  Part 2 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti):
    Howl was subject to an obscenity trial in which this co-founder of the City Lights bookstore was implicated.
  Part 3 (ans: "I'm with you in Rockland"):
    The third part of "Howl" makes continuous use of this refrain, which is followed by lines such as "where you imitate the shade of my mother" and "where you're madder than I am."

[B9] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote that "Mayakovsky's Moscow's burning / the fossil-fuels of life" in his poem "Populist Manifesto No. 1." FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Lawrence Ferlinghetti):
    Name this poet who described a tape "running backwards now / through the Moog Synthesizer of time" in his poem "A Vast Confusion." He also wrote "The Great Chinese Dragon" and "Wild Dreams of a New Beginning."
  Part 2 (ans: A Coney Island of the Mind):
    This collection, Ferlinghetti's most well-known, contains the poem "Junkman's Obbligato." It was named after a phrase from Henry Miller's Into the Night Life, which references a New York location.
  Part 3 (ans: "I Am Waiting"):
    This Ferlinghetti poem proclaims that the speaker is doing the title action for such things as "retribution / for what America did / to Tom Sawyer" and contains an image that will never be realized of the "fleeing lovers on the Grecian Urn" catching up to each other at last.
