=== STOCK CLUES: Alvar Aalto ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Alvar Aalto
  - The open living room of a house designed by this architect features irregularly-spaced, thin black steel columns wrapped in bark. [PWR]
  - In the 1990s, the public voted against using granite to re-clad a building by this architect, who had used Carrara Marble for its facade to suggest a connection to the Mediterranean. [PWR]
  - This architect designed an undulating glass vase for the Savoy Restaurant. [PWR]
  - This architect used airplane propellers as fans for the ceiling of a wooden World's Fair Pavilion, one of his better-known critical regionalist projects along with a town hall complex that includes stairs planted with grass between its red brick buildings. [PWR]
  - The (*) curving shape of one of his buildings is intended to give each room a view of the river.
  - This architect and his wife Aino's company Artek manufactured a chair for TB patients at the Paimio Sanatorium.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of the Villa Mairea and the Baker House at MIT, who designed Finlandia Hall in his home country. [GIVE]

[T2] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Alvar Aalto
  - An external fire pit and wooden beam loft highlight this man's summer house, begun to heal from his wife's death by indulging in random architectural whimsies.
  - This man designed a library with a brick exterior fan and curving interior steel frame illuminated by natural light at Mount Angel Abbey.
  - Rows of "grass stairs" dot the exterior of a town hall designed during the height of this architect's brick-obsessed "red period." His buildings in Germany include a namesake 200-foot highrise in Bremen and a cultural center built around a roof terrace in Wolfsburg.
  - The Carrara marble has begun to warp on the exterior of a concert hall designed by this man to include a congress wing.
  - To maximize views of a nearby river, he designed a building with a serpentine shape while teaching at an American university.
  - A cantilevered chair this man designed to help TB patients at his Paimio Sanitorium is still marketed today.
  - For 10 points, name this designer of MIT's Baker house and Finlandia Hall in Helsinki, a Finnish architect. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An architect outlined the four principles of unity, function, simplicity, and scale in a 1955 book titled [these places] are for People. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gardens):
    Name these places that include El Novillero, one of these places named after Donnell and designed by Thomas Church. Beatrix Farrand was asked to design a series of these places for Mildred and Robert Woods Bliss.
  Part 2 (ans: California [accept CA]):
    The Donnell Garden became the model for suburban landscaping in this state. Richard Neutra and others created sleek houses in a Mid-Century Modern idiom in this state, where Googie architecture developed.
  Part 3 (ans: Alvar Aalto):
    Some speculate that the kidney pool at the Donnell Garden was inspired by Church's visit to the curvy pool at this architect's Villa Mairea, reflecting an appreciation for organic forms. This architect founded the furniture company Artek.

[B2] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect's brick-obsessed "red period" saw him create buildings like the Saynatsalo Town Hall, for which he designed a Renaissance-inspired courtyard with a grass-covered staircase. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alvar Aalto):
    Name this Finnish architect. Along with his wife Aino, this architect designed buildings in the "total work of art" style, which would first design a complete building and then add special features to make them more unique.
  Part 2 (ans: MIT [or Massachusetts Institute of Technology]):
    Aalto used curved brickwork in his design for this University's Baker House, which was designed to twist in a way that gave each resident a view of the Charles River. Eero Sarinen designed this university's Kresge auditorium.
  Part 3 (ans: bookstore [prompt on (department) store; do not accept or prompt on library]):
    Many of Aalto's later designs were focused on modernizing downtown Helsinki, such as his copper and marble-rich design for one of these retail buildings, found on the same block as his Rautatalo office buildings. The Lello one of these buildings in Portugal is known for its grandiose lighting and staircases.

[B3] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This book's "nonstraightforward" introduction presents a "gentle manifesto" stating that Godel's incompleteness theorem and T.S. Eliot's analysis of "difficult" poetry are its precedents. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture):
    Name this work which analyzes the "double-functioning" and "both-and" elements of buildings as examples of the title concepts. It contains its author's dictum that "less is a bore."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    In the book, Robert Venturi praises this architect's Wiley House for attempting to get beyond the simplicities of "the elegant pavilion," but bemoans the "bland architecture" of his Glass House.
  Part 3 (ans: Alvar Aalto):
    Venturi notes that the "best twentieth-century architects" usually reject simplification, praising this man for combining "standardization with irrationality" for his Cultural Center in Wolsburg. He also created the Baker House for MIT.

[B4] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Eero Saarinen famously pulled the design for this building out of a pile of rejected submissions, and essentially forced the other judges to use it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sydney Opera House):
    Name this building that sits on Bennelong Point and looks like it is covered in sails. At its 1973 opening, the architect was neither invited nor mentioned.
  Part 2 (ans: Jorn Utzon):
    The winning design for the Sydney Opera House was submitted by this architect that practiced "additive architecture" and designed the National Assembly Building in Kuwait.
  Part 3 (ans: Alvar Aalto):
    In 1982, Jorn Utzon received an award from the Finnish Association of Architects named for this designer of the Essen Opera House and the Finlandia Hall.

[B5] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Carrara marble exterior of this building has had to be replaced due to warping, a mistake that its architect did not repeat in his design for the performing arts center in Essen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Finlandia Hall):
    Name this building, meant to be viewed by traffic proceeding down Freedom Avenue in accordance with its designer's desire to build off the work of Eliel Saarinen.
  Part 2 (ans: Alvar Aalto):
    This architect designed the Finlandia Hall. He included a moon garden roof in his Baker House, found at MIT, and he also designed the Vyborg Library.
  Part 3 (ans: Jyvaskyla):
    Aalto's Saynatsalo Town Hall is found in this city, considered to be his home, where he designed many buildings including many for its namesake university.
