=== STOCK CLUES: Jarry ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred Jarry ("zhah-REE") (The first sentence refers to Exploits and Opinions of Dr. Faustroll.)
  - A picaresque novel by this author features the laughing baboon Bosse-de-Nage  as a companion to a doctor of a field that "explains the universe supplementary to this one." W.
  - B.
  - Yeats lamented, "after us, the Savage God" after seeing a play by this author whose protagonist frequently swears "by my green candle." This author started staging one of his plays with marionettes after an uproar at its premiere over the title character's exclamation of "merde!"  with an extra R.
  - This author invented the "science of imaginary solutions," 'pataphysics.
  - Sequels titled for a man "Cuckolded" and "in Chains" follow a send-up of Macbeth by this author in which the title king goes to war with Russia after he usurps the throne of Poland.
  - For 10 points, name this absurdist French author of Ubu Roi . [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Alfred Jarry
  - This author influenced the inclusion of a doctor's peephole in the painting The Addition and of a wispy crown adorned with the letters "IMRA" in Portrait of Madame B. [PWR]
  - The Beraldi Album includes this author's sketch of two men clapping before a burning house.
  - On the right side of a painting inspired by this author, a thin metal scythe precariously balances on its tip in the sand. [PWR]
  - A photograph inspired by this author that depicts a close-up of an armadillo fetus was captured by Dora (*) Maar. [PWR]
  - A woodcut created by this author depicts one of his characters in a dunce cap with a spiral affixed to his bloated stomach.
  - A green scarf adorns this author's best-known creation in a painting that reimagines him as a monstrous, red-bricked spinning top and whose title calls him "imperator." For 10 points, Paul Serusier and Pierre Bonnard helped design the set for the premiere of what author's play Ubu Roi? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character created by this author develops a taste for "playing the madman" after twenty years of royal pageantry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Name this playwright who wrote about an aristocrat who deludedly believes himself to be the king of Germany in Henry IV. This Italian playwright wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 2 (ans: Ubu Roi [or Ubu the King or King Ubu or King Turd] (by Alfred Jarry)):
    In this absurdist play by a different writer, a cowardly king swears "by my green candle." This play "for actors pretending to be puppets" ends with the title character fleeing to France to escape Bougrelas and the Tsar's army.
  Part 3 (ans: Berenger [accept King Berenger I] (The unnamed play is Rhinoceros by Eugene Ionesco.)):
    This character appears as a four-hundred-year-old monarch who struggles with his impending death in the play Exit the King. Another play ends with this character shouting, "I'm not capitulating!"

[B2] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's first novel, Monsieur Venus, was banned in Belgium for explicit content that the text blamed on its nonexistent co-author Francis Talman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rachilde ("rah-SHEELD") [or Marguerite Vallette-Eymery]):
    Name this French Decadent author who referred to herself as a "man of letters." This androgynous author, who used a one-word pen-name, wrote The Demon of the Absurd and The Crystal Spider.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Hugo [or Victor-Marie Hugo]):
    Supposedly, Rachilde was inspired to enter Parisian literary culture by a supportive letter from this French author, who wrote The Hunchback of Notre-Dame.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Jarry):
    Rachilde was a close friend of this French playwright. Rachilde established the myth about the riotous opening night of this author's play Ubu Roi ("OO-boo rʼWUH").

[B3] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title figure is mentioned by the maid Mary's lover the fire chief, to which Mrs. Smith responds that she always wears her hair the same way. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bald Soprano [or The Bald Prima Donna, or La Cantatrice Chauve]):
    Name this play about the Smiths and the Martins, which was inspired by the playwright's attempt to learn English out of a book.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    The Bald Soprano was the first play by this Romanian-French playwright of The Chairs.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Jarry):
    This other absurdist playwright wrote a set of three plays about a murderous king of Poland. His other works include The Passion Considered as an Uphill Bicycle Race.

[B4] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character appears in the play Exit the King, in which Marguerite repeatedly tells him that he will die, while Marie attempts to downplay this fact. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Berenger):
    Name this literary character who also appears in a play in which he falls in love with Daisy, who, like him, does not turn into a rhinoceros.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    Exit the King and Rhinoceros are two plays by this Romanian Absurdist playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Henri Jarry):
    This proponent of 'Pataphysics is considered a forefather of Absurdism. Bougrelas and Bordure avenge the death of King Wenceslas of Poland by deposing the title character of his scatological play Ubu Roi.
