=== STOCK CLUES: Lucas Cranach ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 45 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: melancholy [or Melencolia I; prompt on acedia] (The second line refers to the painting by Lucas Cranach the Elder)
  - In a painting by Artemisia Gentileschi, a figure allegorized as this concept sits with half-opened eyes near a darkened perfume bottle. [PWR]
  - In a painting titled for this concept, two infants use sticks to pass a large ball through a wooden hoop. [PWR]
  - The seven rungs of a ladder frame a town in the background of a work named for this concept, which depicts a bat-like creature holding up a banderole displaying its title. [PWR]
  - A rainbow appears overhead in that work above a (*) truncated polyhedron nicknamed its artist's "solid." In Renaissance art, this concept was traditionally depicted by a woman resting her hand on her chin, as seen in a 1514 "master engraving" that includes the symbols of an hourglass, weighing scales, and a magic square. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, what concept precedes I  in the title of a print by Albrecht Durer? [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucas Cranach the Elder <FL>
  - Among this man's paintings is a portrait of Dr.
  - Johannes Cuspinian, a lecturer at the University of Vienna, which was originally intended to be placed next to one of his wife Anna as part of a diptych.
  - During the latter period of his career, this artist used a signature depicting a winged snake carrying a ruby ring in its mouth.
  - After attracting the attention of Frederick the Wise of Saxony, this man became attached to his court in 1504.
  - Among this artist's most famous works are his print The Stag-hunt, as well as a portrait of the nun Katharina von Bora.
  - For 10 points, name this German Renaissance painter, most famous for creating multiple portraits of his friend Martin Luther. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucas Cranach the Elder
  - On the left-hand side of a painting by this artist, Moses holds the Ten Commandments and watches while a spear-wielding skeleton and a horned demon chase a nude man into Hell. [PWR]
  - In another painting by this artist, Cupid is attacked by bees while holding a honeycomb for Venus, who wears an ostrich-feather hat and grabs a branch of an apple tree. [PWR]
  - Carts carry old women from the left to the central rectangular pool of this artist's The Fountain of Youth. [PWR]
  - This man's skinny, tall nude (*) Eves are often indistinguishable from his many nude paintings of Venus.
  - This artist's painting and woodcut Law and Gospel was likely made in consultation with Philip Melanchthon.
  - He signed his paintings with a winged snake emblem bestowed on him by Frederick III.
  - For 10 points, name this court painter of Saxony who painted many portraits of Martin Luther. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucas Cranach the Elder
  - The shutters of this artist's St.
  - Catherine Altarpiece features the disembodied eyes of Saint Ottilia resting on top of a book to illustrate that her blindness was cured.
  - A Latin inscription in a painting by this artist translates to "I am a nymph of the sacred fountain.
  - Do not disturb my sleep.
  - I am resting." One of this artist's versions of The Crucifixion features a converted centurion that rides a white horse and wears 16th century armor.
  - The god Mercury holds onto a glass sphere and a certain Trojan wears a luxurious red cape and steel plate armor in this artist's version of The Judgment of Paris.
  - Archers lie in wait behind bushes in this artist's painting The Stag Hunt of Elector Frederick the Wise, which depicts his patron.
  - A black hat and a coat are often worn by Katharina von Bora's husband in many of his portraits.
  - For 10 points, name this artist from Saxony who painted several portraits of his friend Martin Luther. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucas Cranach the Elder
  - This artist painted several canvases entitled Melancholia in which a woman in a red dress sits on the floor and lazily whittles a stick, seemingly unaware that several nude infants are doing ridiculously precocious things around her.
  - This artist depicted himself being splashed with Christ's blood in a painting that repeats the letters "VDMIA," indicating "the word of the Lord endures forever." He painted several depictions of Venus as a tall, slender nude, including a painting in which she holds up a nearly invisible translucent cloth across her pubis.
  - After the death of his son Hans, this artist of the Weimar Altarpiece used a single crow's wing in his coat of arms, which previously depicted a bat-winged serpent biting down on a ring made of gold and rubies.
  - He depicted the parents, Hans and Margarethe, and the wife, Katharina von Bora, of a man whose portly face he framed with curly hair and a black hat in another portrait.
  - For 10 points, name this German Renaissance artist who produced several portraits of Martin Luther. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucas Cranach the Elder
  - An old man and a young woman hold hands while surrounded by dead birds in this artist's The Ill-Matched Couple.
  - Mary wears a veil as she holds the infant Jesus in this man's Madonna Under the Fir Tree.
  - One title figure reaches back to hold back her child in this man's Venus and Cupid.
  - This man signed his work by depicting a winged snake carrying a ring in its mouth.
  - This ancestor of three Polykarp Leysers and Goethe shares feast days with Albrecht Durer in both the Episcopal and Lutheran churches, and begged for the release of a Prince captured at the Battle of Muhlberg.
  - One painting by this man features a large party in a boat as deer are chased across a river.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of The Stag Hunt of the Elector Fredrick the Wise. [GIVE]

[T7] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucas Cranach the Elder
  - A lion lays on the ground next to a figure sitting on a rock with a spear in this artist's A Faun and His Family. [PWR]
  - A man in a red cap on the left stands on a skeleton and a lion while the central figure gushes blood on three men standing before tents at right in this artist's Christ on the Cross. [PWR]
  - A bow and quiver rest on a tree while a nude woman reclines on the grass below a rock in this artist's Nymph of the Spring. [PWR]
  - This man abandoned a traditional signature in favor a winged (*) serpent emblem awarded to him by Frederick III of Saxony, through his sponsorship this man painted Maximilian and a young Charles V. [PWR]
  - This artist of the Glagow Madonna depicted his most famous subject and friend in an all-black outfit and hat, and also designed the woodcuts for that man's translation of the New Testament.
  - For 10 points, name this German artist associated with Martin Luther and the Reformation. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Hans Brosamer placed titles such as "doctor" and "Barrabas" above a seven-headed caricature of this man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther [accept Caricature of Luther with Seven Heads]):
    Name this man, whose supporters created a woodcut showing a mob of thieves storming a sheep shed. A different artist created a double portrait of this man with his wife, who is wearing a fur coat.
  Part 2 (ans: "Little Masters" [or "Kleinmeisters"]):
    Hans Brosamer and the creator of Christ and the Sheep Shed belonged to this group. Members of this group of printmakers such as Barthel Beham and his brother Sebald were derided as "godless painters" by their home city of Nuremberg.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [or Lucas Cranach der Altere; prompt on Lucas Cranach]):
    This artist depicted his friend Martin Luther with a black hat in front of a plain blue background. This Northern Renaissance artist used a signature of a winged snake biting a ruby ring.

[B2] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The wooden sections of this altarpiece were carved by Nikolaus Hagenauer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isenheim Altarpiece):
    Name this altarpiece created for the Monastery of St. Anthony by Matthias Grunewald. The sickly, emaciated Christ on the front of this altarpiece references the ergotism of patients who viewed it.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo]):
    The Georg Schafer collection in Coburg includes Grunewald's painting of this scene. Leonardo's version of this scene differs by seating Jesus and all of his apostles on one side of the table.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [or Lucas Muller]):
    Philipp Melanchthon grouped Grunewald with Durer and this third artist as being the greatest artists of his time. This fast-working Saxon painted portraits of Martin Luther and The Stag Hunt of Frederick the Wise.

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the late 19th century, scholars reattributed several paintings thought to be by Frans Hals after discovering they contained a distinctive signature incorporating a five-pointed star. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Judith [or Judith Leyster]):
    Those paintings were actually created by a Dutch artist with what first name, surnamed Leyster? Artemisia Gentileschi ("gent-ill-ESS-key") painted a Biblical heroine with this first name beheading Holofernes.
  Part 2 (ans: James McNeill Whistler's butterfly [prompt on Whistler's signature]):
    A later painter drew inspiration from Chinese ideographs to create this artistic monogram. A variant of this symbol with a stinger added was used to sign many of the letters collected in The Gentle Art of Making Enemies.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    This Northern Renaissance artist signed many of his paintings with a winged serpent, a symbol from his coat of arms. This artist executed many portraits of his friend Martin Luther.

[B4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted numerous depictions of Venus wearing nothing but jeweled chokers and large, elaborate hats sometimes decorated with pompoms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [prompt on Cranach]):
    Name this court painter to the Electors of Saxony, who also painted noblewomen wearing large hats. This artist signed his works with a winged snake holding a ruby ring and painted several portraits of Martin Luther.
  Part 2 (ans: Judith):
    Cranach the Elder depicted this woman holding up a sword and "dressed to kill" wearing jeweled necklaces and ornate hats. A popular "Power of Women" motif showed this woman with the head of Holofernes.
  Part 3 (ans: honeycombs):
    Several of Cranach's Venuses pose wearing large hats while Cupid holds one of these objects and complains. A sign on a tree in one such scene moralizes on pleasure and pain, like Cupid's pain due to his theft of this object.

[B5] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the Last Supper scene at the center of an altarpiece named for this town, an artist inserted a portrait of himself as a waiter and a portrait of a priest as one of the apostles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wittenberg):
    Name this town inhabited by a man who is shown wearing a floppy black hat in a 1529 portrait. An artist from this town used a winged-serpent signature and painted Adam and Eve against a black background.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [or Lucas Cranach der Altere]):
    That portrait of Martin Luther is by this sometime Mayor of Wittenberg, who also painted The Stag Hunt of Elector Frederick the Wise. He is known as the "Elder" to distinguish him from his son, an artist of the same name.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    The Lutheran Church officially venerates Cranach the Elder and this other artist on April 6. This artist became a rival of Cranach the Elder due to the success of his woodcuts, like Melencolia I and Knight, Death, and the Devil.

[B6] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The installation Manet-Projekt'74, which uses Manet's Bunch of Asparagus to trace the plundering of art by the ex-Nazi museum patron Hermann Abs, is an example of this practice. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: institutional critique):
    In works such as MoMA Poll, Hans Haacke pioneered what type of "critique," in which artworks examine the hidden ideologies of the art world?
  Part 2 (ans: Gurlitt collection):
    Like Hermann Abs, the namesake of this collection profited from the Nazi "Aryanization" of Jewish property. In 2012, this hoard of around 1,500 artworks was discovered in a Munich apartment during an investigation into tax evasion by its namesake art dealer's son Cornelius.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    Descendants of the Jewish art dealer Jacques Goudstikker have launched many suits to recover Nazi-stolen art, such as an Adam and Eve by this friend and portraitist of Martin Luther.

[B7] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This figure is depicted on horseback with a crown of peacock feathers in an equestrian portrait by Hans Burgkmair ("BURK-meyer"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Emperor Maximilian I [prompt on Maximilian; do not accept or prompt on "Maximilian I of Mexico"] (The portrait is by Durer.)):
    Name this figure who also commissioned Burgkmair to make a large portion of a 139-piece woodblock work titled Triumphal Procession. In a portrait by a different artist, he faces left against a green background and holds a broken pomegranate.
  Part 2 (ans: chiaroscuro ("KYAH-ro-SKOO-ro")):
    Hans Burgkmair pioneered the use of this technique to show depth in woodcuts. This technique of heavy contrasts, whose name comes from the Italian for "light" and "dark," was used in Caravaggio's tenebrism.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach ("CRAH-nuck") the Elder [prompt on Cranach]):
    Maximilian I's competition with Frederick the Wise led to a competition between Burgkmair and this Saxon-based artist, which led them to develop the art of chiaroscuro woodcuts. In other works, this artist depicted Frederick the Wise during a stag hunt and made many depictions of Martin Luther.

[B8] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his book The Reformation of the Image, Joseph Koerner argues that this artwork's depiction of the Last Supper, which shows Jesus dining with a group of Germans, "negates sacred geography, revealing church as activity, not place." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wittenberg Altarpiece):
    Name this altarpiece, the bottom panel of which depicts the crucifixion occurring between a certain preacher and his audience.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [prompt on Cranach]):
    The Wittenberg Altarpiece was painted by this court painter to the Elders of Saxony, who depicted Frederick the Wise engaging in a stag hunt in another work.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther):
    Cranach's ("CRAH-nuck's") religious paintings were heavily influenced by the theology of this good friend of his. Cranach provided a number of woodcut illustrations for this man's German translation of the Bible.

[B9] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The blood of Christ takes an unlikely trajectory and lands on the head of this artist in the Weimar Altarpiece, which was completed by his son after his death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [prompt on Cranach; do not accept "Lucas Cranach the Younger"]):
    Name this artist who used an image of a winged snake with a ring in its mouth as his signature. He painted many scenes of Cupid and Venus, as well as a diptych of a nude Adam and Eve against a black background.
  Part 2 (ans: hunting [accept word forms; accept stag hunt]):
    Cranach painted Frederick the Wise engaging in this action outside Hartenfels Castle. Anthony van Dyck painted Charles I and his horse during a break from this action, which is done "in the Snow" in a Bruegel painting.
  Part 3 (ans: melancholy [accept Melancholia or Melencolia I]):
    In a Cranach painting titled for this emotion, a woman whittles away at a stick, ignoring the fifteen babies dancing next to her. Another 16th-century artwork titled for this emotion includes a truncated polyhedron with a faint skull marking on it and a magic square.

[B10] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many of this artist's paintings include his heraldic symbol of a bat-winged serpent. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [prompt on Cranach]):
    Identify this sixteenth-century court painter to the electors of Saxony. He made several paintings of Judith with the head of Holofernes, in which Judith wears a big red hat with feathers.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    Cranach's best known portrait is of this man, who was one of his personal friends. Some art historians have connected Cranach's interest in the Judith story with this theologian's ideological struggle against Charles V.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Jerome):
    Despite his Lutheran allegiance, Cranach accepted a commission to paint Cardinal Albert von Brandenburg as this figure. His composition was heavily derived from Durer's woodcut of this saint writing in his study, which features a tame lion in the foreground.

[B11] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter spent most of his career employed by the dukes of Saxony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    Name this painter best-known for his many portraits of Martin Luther.
  Part 2 (ans: the crucifixion):
    Cranach created a famously unusual 1503 painting of this scene, integrating a turbulent landscape and placing Jesus in profile and off to the right. Instead, the focus is on Mary looking up at the recently deceased Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: the alte Pinakothek ("ALL-tuh PEE-nah-koh-take"), Munich [accept Old Pinacotheca or Old Picture Gallery]):
    Cranach's Crucifixion belongs to this German art museum. Other sixteenth-century paintings in this museum include Altdorfer's Battle of Issus, El Greco's Disrobing of Christ, and Durer's Self Portrait in a Fur-Collared Robe.

[B12] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Traditional signatures are overrated. For 10 points each, name some artists known for their more eccentric signatures.
  Part 1 (ans: James Abbott McNeill Whistler):
    This American artist, known for painting his mother, incorporating his initials into the stylized image of a butterfly, in such works as his Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    A medal that this artist of The Glogow Madonna received from Frederick the Wise inspired him to sign his paintings with the image of a winged serpent.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Michel Basquiat):
    The spray-painted image of a crown was the preferred signature of this American graffiti artist associated with the SAMO group. This artist studied under Andy Warhol before dying of a heroin overdose at age 27.

[B13] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: For 10 points each, here are your bonuses on everyone's favourite German reformer.
  Part 1 (ans: Lutherstadt Wittenberg):
    In 1517, Marin Luther posted his 95 Theses onto the door of the Castle Church in which city of modern day Saxony-Anhalt?
  Part 2 (ans: Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott):
    A paraphrase of Psalm 46, what is the German title of Luther's most famous hymn? Its melody has been used in compositions by Bach, Meyerbeer, and Mendelssohn.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    Which court painter to the Electors of Saxony and friend of Luther is notable for his portraits of Luther and members of the reformer's family?

[B14] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's insignia was a winged black snake holding a ruby ring in its mouth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    Name this Wittenberg-based painter, who depicted the title figures standing in front of a stag and covering their genitals with apple branches in his version of Adam and Eve.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Cranach was a contemporary of this other German artist, with whom he now shares a feast day. This man included a magic square in his Melancolia I.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Jerome in His Study [or Der heilige Hieronymus im Gehaus]):
    A skull lies on the window-sill at the left of this Durer engraving, which features a sleeping lion and dog in the foreground and the title figure seated in the background.

[B15] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter showed two men dressed as medieval knights hanging out with three naked ladies wearing necklaces in his version of The Judgment of Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    Name this "swiftest of painters," who created portraits of contemporary German political figures such as Henry the Pious and Katharina von Mecklenburg.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    Perhaps Cranach's most famous subject was this guy, also painted by Hans Holbein. This religious leader was almost always depicted in his floppy black hat.
  Part 3 (ans: Venus and Cupid):
    A lace collar and a nearly invisible draping are the only things worn by the title goddess of this Cranach painting, who has wavy red hair. On a pedestal to the left, it shows the much smaller other title character.

[B16] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Humor quizbowl's number one Scipione Borghese fan by naming the following artists of paintings now located in the Galleria Borghese, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Titian [accept Tiziano Vecelli or Teziano Vecellio]):
    Aphrodite and Cupid sit beside Laura Bagarotto on an open sarcophagus in this artist's Sacred and Profane Love, which is now housed at the Galleria Borghese. This Venetian artist also painted The Rape of Europa.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [accept no other Cranachs]):
    The Gallery also houses this artist's Venus and Cupid With a Honeycomb. Judith calmly rests her arm on Holofernes' head in the depiction of that scene by this court painter to Frederick the Wise.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonia da Correggio):
    This artist's Danae, in which Cupid and Danae receive Jupiter in the form of a golden shower, is part of the Borghese collection. This man painted the Assumption of the Virgin for the dome of the Parma cathedral.

[B17] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This member of the Danube School painted several works celebrating Regensburg's expulsion of the Jews in 1519. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    Identify this artist best known for a battle scene commissioned by Wilhelm IV of Bavaria where the sun sets over the Nile on the right and a crescent moon is about to disappear in the top left.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III]):
    That Altdorfer painting showed this general's victory over Darius at the Battle of Issus. This military leader founded a city in Egypt and also laid siege to Tyre.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [or Lucas Cranach der Altere]):
    Altdorfer made copies of some paintings by this German artist, best known for his depiction of The Judgment of Paris and his portraits of Martin Luther.
