=== STOCK CLUES: Huxley ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 67 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 26 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Untitled Film Set (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ken Russell [or Henry Kenneth Alfred Russell] (The Devils was partially based on Aldous Huxley's novel The Devils of Loudun. When asked if he regretted hitting Walker, Russell responded "I wish it had been an iron bar.")
  - In a TV debate, this director whacked critic Alexander Walker with a rolled-up copy of Walker's own review. [PWR]
  - By having screenwriter Larry Kramer follow a novel "to the letter," this director got censors to approve a scene in which two nude men shake hands in front of a fireplace before wrestling. [PWR]
  - The white-tiled, boxy sets of a film by this director were inspired by the line "rape in a public lavatory" from its source novel by Aldous Huxley. [PWR]
  - This director's Betty Boop socks convinced William Hurt to make his film debut as a character who harvests Mexican mushrooms after seeing a crucified seven-eyed (*) goat-man.
  - This director clashed over that sci-fi film's script with its writer Paddy Chayefsky.
  - Derek Jarman's film career began as set designer for a film by this director in which 17th-century priest Urban Grandier is accused of witchcraft by Sister Jeanne des Anges.
  - For 10 points, name this English director of Women in Love, Altered States, and The Devils. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Aldous Huxley
  - Toward the beginning of Brideshead Revisited, Anthony Blanche struggles to pay attention while reading a novel by this author before being thrown into a fountain.
  - A novel by this author that features extended untranslated quotes from Catullus, Virgil, and Horace also features the advertising executive Mr. [PWR]
  - Boldero's declaration "They swallow what's given them [...] Cinemas, newspapers, magazines, gramophones, football matches, wireless, telephones." A character created by this author is hurt when he discovers a series of seven unflattering caricatures of himself in a notebook kept by the deaf (*) Jenny Mullion.
  - Shortly after awkwardly shuffling around a charity fair, a character created by this author arranges a fake telegram calling him away to avoid committing to his love interest, who is grieving over the suicide of his romantic rival Gombauld.
  - A novel by this author that satirizes the frenetic pace and spiritual hollowness of post-World War I London borrows its title from a Christopher Marlowe quote.
  - In this author's debut novel, the shy poet Denis tries to confess his love for the older Anne while attending a house party at the title estate.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Antic Hay and Crome Yellow. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Answer: nature [or Natur; accept natural; accept Naturgemalde; accept Naturphilosophie; accept nature philosophy or natural philosophy] (The second sentence refers to Alexander von Humboldt. Thomas Huxley's translation of Goethe's nature aphorisms became the first article in the journal Nature.)
  - An aphorism by either Georg Christoph Tobler or Goethe states of this concept that we are "surrounded and embraced by" it and "powerless to separate ourselves from" it. [PWR]
  - Michael Pollan's How to Change Your Mind discusses a polymath's claim that "I myself am identical with" this concept.
  - This concept's German cognate precedes a word for painting, "Gemalde," to name a massive cross-sectional map of Cotopaxi and Chimborazo.
  - A book of prints titled for (*) "Art Forms" in this concept was created by Ernst Haeckel.
  - Andrea Wulf's biography of Alexander von Humboldt is titled for "The Invention of" this concept.
  - This word precedes "philosophy" to name the German idealist tradition of Friedrich Schelling.
  - As an adjective, this type of philosophy was a premodern analogue of science.
  - For 10 points, what term for the physical world or its phenomena names a major scientific journal published by Springer? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Answer: Hodgkin [accept Dorothy Mary Crowfoot Hodgkin; accept Thomas Hodgkin; accept Alan Lloyd Hodgkin; accept Hodgkin's lymphoma; accept Hodgkin-Huxley model; prompt on Crowfoot] (Dorothy Hodgkin wrote the introduction to Ceausescu's PhD.)
  - A scientist with this surname wrote the introduction to Stereospecific Polymerization of Isoprene, a book based on Elena Ceausescu's fraudulent PhD. [PWR]
  - Giant cells with multi-lobed nuclei and an "owl's eye" appearance characterize a disease named for a physician with this surname. [PWR]
  - Epstein-Barr viral antigens are sometimes found in cells unique to a disease named for a person with this surname, Reed-Sternberg cells. [PWR]
  - A chemist with this last name determined the (*) structures of penicillin and vitamin B12 using X-ray crystallography, which earned her a Nobel Prize. [PWR]
  - This is the alphabetically former name in a doubly eponymous model derived from experiments on giant squid axons, which describes the propagation of an action potential.
  - For 10 points, give the last name of a physician who discovered a namesake lymphoma. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ARCHIVE (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: the Huxley-Wilberforce Debate [accept the Oxford evolution debate or anything involving a debate on evolution or natural selection or debate over the book On the Origin of Species]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - Christopher Southgate wrote a 2021 paper titled for "Enough of Galileo and [This Event]," calling for better discussions around climate change and COVID policies. [PWR]
  - A 2003 play by Crispin Whittell imagined the main participants in this event joined by a third man in a Malibu beach house in the afterlife. [PWR]
  - Bill Bryson describes how the thousand spectators in this event had to endure two hours of a "slumber-inducing speaker named John William (+) Draper" of NYU. [PWR]
  - One participant in this event, who had the nickname Soapy Sam, used evidence provided by Richard Owen and is best remembered for asking a question about an undergraduate's (*) "grandfather or his grandmother." This event took place at the British Association for the Advancement of Science. [PWR]
  - One participant in this event claimed "I unhesitatingly affirm my preference for the ape" in defending the book at the center of this event.
  - For 10 points, name this 1860 debate between the son of an anti-slavery leader and a man known as Darwin's Bulldog. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Aldous Huxley [or Aldous Leonard Huxley] (The book in the first sentence is The Perennial Philosophy. The other unnamed book is The Doors of Perception.)
  - A neo-Vedanta-inspired book by this author consists of 27 short chapters that list Western and Eastern religious quotations on different spiritual topics.
  - This author recalls viewing art books at the World's Biggest Drug Store in a book titled for a line from The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
  - A novel by this author describes a media frenzy that leads to a massive substance-induced orgy in a lighthouse.
  - This author described his mescaline use in a book that inspired Jim Morrison to name his band "The Doors." In a novel by this author, a "Resident World Controller" leads a society that uses a drug named for a Vedic ritual drink to achieve happiness, which frustrates Bernard Marx.
  - For 10 points, name this author who created John the Savage in his novel Brave New World. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Aldous Huxley
  - In a novel by this author, a character named Mr. [PWR]
  - Barbecue-Smith writes 1,500 publishable words per hour by tapping into his "subconscious." In that novel, this author created an analogue to opposition leader H.H. [PWR]
  - Asquith with his character of Mr. [PWR]
  - Callamy, whom young ladies fear and refuse to accompany on car rides. [PWR]
  - This author included the characters Mark Rampion, who was based on D.H. [PWR]
  - Lawrence, and Maurice Spandrell, who was based on Charles Baudelaire, in his novel (*) Point, Counterpoint. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, Bernard Marx become jealous when Lenina Crowne sleeps with other men even though "everyone belongs to everyone else." That novel by this author follows a man known as "the savage" who has only read the complete works of Shakespeare.
  - For 10 points, name this British author of Brave New World. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aldous (Leonard) Huxley
  - A scientist created by this author grafts newt tails to distended animals' shoulder blades.
  - This author wrote, "TNT plus mercury fulminate equals, well, what?
  - An enormous hole in the ground." in another novel.
  - One of his novels ends with a woman who had remained a virgin until thirty-five playing in a bathtub with the editor of The Literary World.
  - One of this author's protagonists hangs himself in a deserted lighthouse after Darwin Bonaparte photographs him.
  - The fascist Everard Webley is murdered by Maurice Spandrell in a novel in which this author fictionalized himself as Philip Quarles.
  - This author of Point Counter Point wrote a novel set in the year 632 After Ford, in which Bernard Marx works at the London hatchery.
  - For 10 points, name this British author of Brave New World. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Wilberforce-Huxley debate [or Huxley-Wilberforce debate; or 1860 Oxford debate on evolution; prompt on answers mentioning only one of Wilberforce or Huxley; prompt on answers indicating a debate over evolution]
  - Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker at first claimed himself the victor in this event, rather than its most notable participant.
  - A participant in this argument asked whether, "if a lantern were offered to [him], [he] should refuse it because it shed an imperfect light." A lady, identified as Lady Brewster, fainted in shock after that participant made the statement that he would be "ashamed to be connected with a man who used great gifts to obscure the truth" in response to a question about whether it was "from [his] grandfather's or grandmother's side that [he] claim[ed] descent from apes." For 10 points, name this 1860 debate between "Soapy Sam" and "Darwin's Bulldog" over a theory of natural selection. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aldous Huxley
  - One of this author's novels features a woman who spends her time betting on horse races with the help of horoscopes.
  - In a novel by this author, the protagonist uses a false beard to disguise himself as "The Complete Man" and invents "pneumatic trousers." Maurice allows himself to be shot by the fascist Brotherhood of Freemen in one of his novels, and that novel opens with Walter Bidlake's mistress complaining about her pregnancy.
  - This author of a novel about Philip Quarles also created a character who whips himself at a lighthouse after visiting the World State.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Crome Yellow and Point Counter Point who wrote about John the Savage in Brave New World. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Aldous Huxley
  - This author wrote a children's book in which the body of a dead snake is used as a clothesline after 297 eggs are eaten.
  - In a novel by him, the devout bookshop owner Bruno Rontini helps retrieve a Degas painting, but is imprisoned by Fascists as a result, after uncle Eustace promises to buy a new tuxedo for teenage poet Sebastian Barnack.
  - This author of The Crows of Pearblossom and Time Must Have a Stop also wrote a novel in which the painter Ivor Lombard is frightened away by the psychoanalysis-obsessed Mary Bracegirdle, and Priscilla uses astrology to bet on horse races.
  - In that novel by this author, the wishy-washy poet Denis Stone fails in his pursuit of Anne Wimbush at the title estate.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Crome Yellow who also penned Point Counter Point and Brave New World. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A passage in this novel took ideas from its author's article "Darwin Among the Machines," which urges the destruction of machines. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Erewhon; or, Over the Range ("AIR-uh-wahn")):
    Name this novel narrated by Higgs that details a revolution against machines that have gained consciousness in its three-chapter "Book of the Machines."
  Part 2 (ans: utopias [accept utopian fiction]):
    Samuel Butler's Erewhon satirizes a genre of fiction named for these places whose name comes from the Greek for "nowhere." A Thomas More book popularized the term for these perfect societies.
  Part 3 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    Erewhon is referenced several times at the beginning of this author's utopian book Island, which serves as a counterpart to another book by this author in which characters watch "feelies" like "Three Weeks in a Helicopter."

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel whose title was taken from this literary work, Lady Slane decides to embrace her freedom and live in a small cottage after her husband's death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samson Agonistes (The second novel is Eyeless in Gaza by Aldous Huxley.)):
    Name this work. In another novel whose title was taken from this literary work, the protagonist and his lover Helen Aldwidge get covered in blood when a dog falls out of an airplane and lands next to them.
  Part 2 (ans: Vita Sackville-West [or Victoria Mary, Lady Nicolson]):
    The final line of John Milton's closet drama Samson Agonistes titles this author's novel All Passion Spent. This author's poem The Land was the inspiration for the fictional poem The Oak Tree.
  Part 3 (ans: Orlando: A Biography):
    Vita Sackville-West is the inspiration for the title character of this Virginia Woolf novel, who publishes The Oak Tree nearly two centuries after she turns into a woman.

[B3] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: The lack of a theory of heredity was a gap in Darwin's theory of evolution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  phenotype):
    What term is used for an organism's observable characteristics, often contrasted with its genotype?
  Part 2 (ans: phenotypic  plasticity [do NOT accept or prompt on 'scarring']):
    What name is given to the ability of a constant genotype to give rise to difierent phenotypes in a regulated manner depending on the environmental conditions? Types of this ability include acclimation and polyphenism, and a standard example is observed in the water fiea Daphnia pulex .
  Part 3 (ans: the  modern synthesis [accept  modern evolutionary synthesis ; prompt on  new  synthesis ,  evolutionary synthesis and  neo-Darwinian synthesis by asking 'What term did Julian Huxley use in the title of his 1942 book on the topic?']):
    This description, coined by Julian Huxley, is given to the combination of Darwinian evolution with Mendelian genetics in a joint mathematical framework. Opponents often argue that phenotypic plasticity is neglected by this framework.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This philosophical position sometimes names the Traditionalist school of Rene Guenon, Ananda Coomaraswamy, Julius Evola, and Frithjof Schuon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: perennialism [or perennial philosophy; or perennial wisdom]):
    Identify this perspective named by Agostino Steuco, according to which all the world's religions contain a shared set of fundamental truths or universal origin.
  Part 2 (ans: Huxley [accept Aldous Huxley; accept Thomas Henry Huxley; accept T. H. Huxley]):
    Neo-Vedanta inspired a member of this family's study entitled The Perennial Philosophy. "Agnosticism" was coined by a member of this family who debated evolution with Bishop Samuel Wilberforce at an 1860 event at Oxford.
  Part 3 (ans: education [or clear equivalents such as teaching; or learning; or pedagogy' accept Democracy and Education]):
    In this discipline, "perennialism" refers to a philosophy focusing on universal truths that have stood the test of time, often done with a Great Books curriculum. John Dewey advocated a contrasting progressive approach in a book titled for Democracy and it.

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: The Fitzhugh-Nagumo model reduces this model from four to just two differential equations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hodgkin-Huxley Model):
    Name this set of equations derived in 1952 from voltage clamp experiments on squid giant axons that models the cell membrane as a capacitor and ion channels as resistors.
  Part 2 (ans: action potentials):
    The Hodgkin-Huxley equations model the propagation of these "all-or-nothing" events that occur once the membrane potential reaches threshold. They consist of depolarization, repolarization, and hyperpolarization.
  Part 3 (ans: shunting inhibition [or divisive inhibition]):
    The flux of an ion that has an equilibrium potential close to the resting potential, like chloride, causes this kind of inhibition by preventing the propagation of an action potential to the soma.

[B6] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by this author was adapted into the 1982 film Blade Runner. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip K (indred) Dick):
    Name this sci-fi author. This author's autobiographical novel A Scanner Darkly describes a society in which the "straights" are segregated from "dopers" like Bob Arctor, who are addicted to the powerful drug "Substance D."
  Part 2 (ans: Aldous (Leonard) Huxley):
    This author described his experiments with the psychedelic drug mescaline in his 1954 autobiography The Doors of Perception. This author included the happiness-inducing drug soma in his novel Brave New World.
  Part 3 (ans: Patrick Radden Keefe):
    This nonfiction writer and journalist described the Sackler family's role in bringing about the modern-day opioid epidemic in his 2021 book Empire of Pain. This author chronicled the events surrounding the murder of Jean McConville during the Troubles in his 2018 book Say Nothing.

[B7] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A myna bird screams "Attention!" at the end of this novel as Colonel Dipa and the forces of Rendang-Lobo invade the title place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Island):
    Name this novel in which Will Farnaby visits the Kingdom of Pala after intentionally wrecking his boat there to gain rights to oil reserves. The author of this novel wrote it as a counterpart to an earlier 1932 dystopian novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    Island was written by this author as the utopian counterpart to his earlier novel which takes place "After Ford," Brave New World.
  Part 3 (ans: Oedipus Rex [or Oedipus the King]):
    In Island, marionettes portray a version of this play with a happier ending. Before the action of this play, its title character kills an old man at a crossroads after he grazes his foot with a chariot.

[B8] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about vacuum cleaner salesmen in 20th-century British literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans:  Our Man in Havana):
    The vacuum cleaner salesman James Wormold fabricates increasingly elaborate intelligence reports for MI6 while in the title city in this comic novel by Graham Greene.
  Part 2 (ans:  A Dance to the Music of Time (by Anthony Powell)):
    Julian MacLaren-Ross, whose novel Of Love and Hunger is about a vacuum cleaner salesman, was parodied as the writer X. Trapnel in this series. This twelve-volume series opens with the novel A Question of Upbringing.
  Part 3 (ans: Aldous Huxley [or Aldous Leonard Huxley]):
    Don van Vliet ("vleet"), better known as the musician Captain Beefheart, once sold a vacuum cleaner to this author of Brave New World with the convincing sales pitch "I assure you sir, [it] sucks."

[B9] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Science
     Leadin: Answer the following about the role of sea creatures in studying the nervous system, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alan Hodgkin AND Andrew Huxley [accept Hodgkin-Huxley model]):
    Two
  Part 2 (ans: mollusks [or Mollusca]):
    Eric Kandel won the 2000 Nobel Prize for his studies on the gill-and-siphon withdrawal reflex and memory formation in a member of this phylum, Aplysia californica. Squids also belong to this phylum.
  Part 3 (ans: central pattern generators [or CPGs; prompt on spinal networks]):
    Lamprey swimming is a prototypical behavior controlled by these autonomous groups of neurons, which can fire rhythmically even without rhythmic inputs. In humans, they control movements like walking and breathing.

[B10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: With the input of scholars like Claude Levi-Strauss, this institution released a much-criticized statement known as The Race Question in 1950, and undertook the Nubian Campaign a decade later. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization [prompt on United Nations]):
    Name this institution that needed more than thirty years to complete its ambitious and monumental History of Mankind project.
  Part 2 (ans: Huxley (Julian, Aldous, and Thomas Henry)):
    A scientist from this family was appointed UNESCO's first Director-General and feuded with Lucian Febvre over the History of Mankind project. Another scientist from this family was the man known as 'Darwin's bulldog'.
  Part 3 (ans: China [accept Zhongguo]):
    One of Huxley's allies in the early stages of the History of Mankind was Joseph Needham, best known for his studies on the science and technology of this country. In 2004, the ongoing encyclopedia project begun by Needham stopped using the Wade-Giles system to transliterate this country's pictographic writing system.

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about winners of the James Tait Black Memorial Prizes, the UK's oldest literary prizes, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    This author wrote the James Tait Black-winning novel After Many a Summer Dies the Swan, which features the millionaire Jo Stoyte. This author is better known for a novel set during AF 632, Brave New World.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh ("EEV-lin WAH") (That novel is Brideshead Revisited.)):
    The 1952 iteration of the prize was won by this author's World War II novel Men at Arms. This author is better known for a novel following Charles Ryder, who almost gains ownership of the title estate through his marriage to Julia Flyte.
  Part 3 (ans: Angela Carter (The collection is The Bloody Chamber.)):
    The winner of the 2012 Best of the James Tait Black was Nights at the Circus, a novel by this author. The Bluebeard legend inspired the title story of a collection by this author that retells fairy tales from a feminist perspective.

[B12] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title of a 2019 Lila Anolik biography inverts the title of a memoir about this place by an author who retired from public life in 1997 after being severely burned in a fire started by her cigar ash. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hollywood [or Tinseltown; accept Hollywood's Eve or Eve's Hollywood; prompt on Los Angeles or LA or Southern California or SoCal]):
    Name this place that the socialite Eve Babitz described in a memoir titled "Eve's [this place]." Carter and Maria work in this place in the novel Play It As It Lays.
  Part 2 (ans: Joan Didion):
    As an "it girl" in 1960s L.A., Eve Babitz was discovered as a literary talent by this author of Play It As It Lays. The volume We Tell Ourselves Stories in Order to Live collects this author's non-fiction.
  Part 3 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    Babitz tried to talk her lover Jim Morrison out of naming his band after this author's book about taking mescaline, The Doors of Perception. This one-time Hollywood resident also wrote Brave New World.

[B13] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Heh, care to debate? These figures from English history sure would. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Putney Debates):
    In this series of debates during the English civil war, John Lilburne represented the Levellers in conflict with other less radical members of the New Model Army.
  Part 2 (ans: King and Country Debate):
    This debate at Oxford before World War II convinced Mussolini that British youth were decadent and would be unwilling to prosecute a war against him. The text of the resolution ultimately agreed upon at this debate read: "that this house will in no circumstances fight for" its namesake two concepts.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Henry Huxley or Archbishop Samuel Wilberforce):
    Another famous debate at Oxford occurred between a proponent of evolution and an opponent. Name either of those interlocutors, one of whom shared a surname with his descendant Aldous, the author of Brave New World, and the other with his ancestor William, the architect of Britain's abolition of slavery.

[B14] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about essays that transport authors outside their natural habitat, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    This author wrote how the title author would have been cured of "his too easy and comfortable pantheism" in an essay imagining "Wordsworth in the Tropics." He wrote the dystopian Brave New World.
  Part 2 (ans: bush [accept bush ballads or bush bards; do not accept or prompt on "outback"]):
    Laura Bohannan recounted Tiv chiefs identifying holes in the plot of Hamlet in her essay "Shakespeare in" this sort of place, which names Australian "ballads" like Banjo Paterson's "Waltzing Matilda."
  Part 3 (ans: George Saunders):
    The essay "Mr. Vonnegut in Sumatra" recalls this author's time reading Slaughterhouse-Five while working in the oil industry. The subsidized housing complex "Sea Oak" appears in this contemporary author's story collection Pastoralia.

[B15] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: T.S. Eliot's essay "Dante" criticizes this phrase as "a serious blemish on a beautiful poem." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Beauty is truth, truth beauty."):
    Name this 5 word phrase that Eliot called "meaningless" in a response to I. A. Richards. Cleanth Brooks defended this line as a "speech" given "in character," similar to Shakespeare's "Ripeness is all."
  Part 2 (ans: urn [accept Ode on a Grecian Urn or the Well Wrought Urn]):
    "Beauty is truth, truth beauty" appears in a John Keats poem titled for one of these objects. Brooks is best known for a seminal work of New Criticism titled for a "well wrought" one of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Aldous (Leonard) Huxley):
    The line "What pipes and timbrels? What wild ecstasy" is mocked with the lines "What songs? What gongs? What nameless rites?" in this author's poem "Frascati." He used a line from Tennyson's Tithonus to title a novel about millionaire Jo Stoyte.

[B16] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Science
     Leadin: In a classic study of these cellular components, J. Z. Young demonstrated that application of a sodium citrate solution to one end of them would generate a rhythmic discharge at the other end. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: squid giant axons [prompt on partial answers; accept giant squid axons, but do not accept synonyms for "giant"; accept answers mentioning any specific species of squid, such as the Humboldt squid]):
    Name these specific cellular components that are linked to the water-propulsion defense response in a certain type of animal. These structures can grow up to one millimeter in diameter and several centimeters in length.
  Part 2 (ans: cytoplasm [or cytosol; or axoplasm]):
    One of the most useful properties of squid giant axons is that a roller can be applied along their length to extract several microliters of a relatively pure sample of this substance. More generally, nuclear cargo bound to exportin will diffuse through the nuclear pore and [emphasize] into this substance.
  Part 3 (ans: Hodgkin-Huxley model [accept conductance-based model]):
    Voltage clamp electrodes were placed inside the lumen of the squid giant axon in the experiment that led to the discovery of this set of nonlinear, differential equations, which model the propagation of an action potential by treating each component of an excitatory cell as a different electrical element.

[B17] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book, published in 1955 after its author's death, expands on the concept of the "noosphere," which was coined by one of Edouard Le Roy, Vladimir Vernadsky, or this book's author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Phenomenon of Man [or Le phenomene humain]):
    Name this book, which posits that humankind will accelerate towards a sort of synthesis termed the "Omega Point." Peter Medawar wrote a devastating review dismissing this book as pseudoscience.
  Part 2 (ans: Pierre Teilhard de Chardin [prompt on "Chardin"]):
    The Phenomenon of Man was written by this French thinker and semi-disgraced Jesuit priest, who adopted the idea of Darwinian evolution into a teleological theory of mankind. He coined the term "Omega Point."
  Part 3 (ans: Huxley family [or the Huxleys; accept Julian (Sorell) Huxley or Thomas Henry Huxley or Aldous (Leonard) Huxley]):
    The foreword to The Phenomenon of Man was written by Julian, an evolutionary biologist from this prominent English family. Its other members included Thomas Henry, known as "Darwin's Bulldog," and the novelist Aldous.

[B18] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Ngugi wa Thing'o probably wouldn't be very happy that over half of the Wikipedia page on Kenyan literature is about books written by Europeans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Out of Africa [by Isak Dinesen]):
    This memoir is about the efforts of Denys Finch-Hatton to found a coffee plantation in Kenya, though much of the narrative focuses on death and practices of restitution.
  Part 2 (ans: Huxley Family):
    Another memoir of family life in East Africa, The Flame Trees of Thika , was penned by Elspeth, a woman who married into this family. The painter John Collier twice married women from this family.

[B19] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these things related to the comic novel Antic Hay, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Leonard Huxley):
    Antic Hay was written by this English author of Crome Yellow as well as Brave New World.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Petronius Arbiter):
    Antic Hay features what may be the first mistaken description of a vomitorium as a place to vomit in an allusion to the Satyricon, a novel by this Roman author.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    The title of Antic Hay comes from Edward II, a play by this author who also wrote about a conqueror who dies after burning a Qu'ran in another work.

[B20] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a non-chronological novel consisting of 54 disconnected episodes about Anthony Beavis, who discovers Buddhism in Mexico and recalls the suicide of his friend Brian Foxe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Huxley [Aldous Leonard Huxley]):
    Name this author who wrote another novel about the immortality-seeking Hollywood tycoon Jo Stoyte.
  Part 2 (ans: Brave New World):
    Huxley wrote this novel about a World State whose inhabitants are sorted into castes of alpha through epsilon, and which begins in the year 632 After Ford.
  Part 3 (ans: John Milton):
    The title of Huxley's novel Eyeless in Gaza comes from this earlier English writer's play Samson Agonistes, which was published alongside his sequel to his epic poem that aimed to "justify the ways of God to men."

[B21] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This author suggested that Wordsworth's "too easy and comfortable pantheism" could not have survived in a more hostile natural environment in his essay "Wordsworth in the Tropics". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Huxley [or Aldous Leonard Huxley]):
    Name this English author whose dystopian novel Brave New World is set in the year 632 After Ford.
  Part 2 (ans: The Doors of Perception):
    Huxley detailed his experiments with using psychedelic drugs as a means of achieving transcendence in this non-fiction work.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy L. Sayers [or Dorothy Leigh Sayers]):
    In 1917, Huxley was succeeded as co-editor of Oxford Poetry by this author, who died in 1962 before finishing her translation of Dante's Divine Comedy. She created a detective who exonerates Harriet Vane in Strong Poison.

[B22] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about early proponents of Charles Darwin:
  Part 1 (ans: T (homas) H (enry) Huxley):
    After this biologist engaged in a celebrated debate with Samuel Wilberforce in 1860, he earned the moniker "Darwin's Bulldog."
  Part 2 (ans: The Water-Babies, A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby):
    The "Doasyoulikes" represent Lamarckism when they forget how to use their tongues and lose the power of speech in this 1863 children's novel about a chimney sweep by Charles Kingsley.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Owen):
    In The Water Babies, Kingsley's "Great Hippopotamus Debate" satirized T.H. Huxley's debate with this opponent of Darwinism, who asserted that the hippocampus demonstrates that humans are a separate class from primates. He also coined the word "dinosaur."

[B23] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: This model was developed after observations of the axons of giant squids. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hodgkin-Huxley model):
    Name this key biophysics model, which uses Ohm's law to describe the behavior of a certain type of cell. It is fundamental to understanding the refractory period following the action potential.
  Part 2 (ans: neurons [prompt on nerve cell]):
    The Hodgkin-Huxley model models this type of cell, which make up the nervous system.
  Part 3 (ans: dendrites):
    The Hodgkin-Huxley model has been further improved upon by models that take into account the geometries of these branched projections extending from the soma or cell body.

[B24] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this work, the ape-like Fifth Earl of Gonister is two hundred years old. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: After Many a Summer Dies the Swan ):
    Identify this novel in which Jo Stoyte kills Peter after hiring Dr. Obispo to help research longevity.
  Part 2 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    This British author wrote After Many a Summer Dies the Swan, in addition to a dystopian novel about Bernard Marx and John the Savage, Brave New World.
  Part 3 (ans: Ape and Essence):
    This other Huxley novel takes place in a world where intelligent baboons have decimated the planet with nuclear warfare, and includes a confrontation between Dr. Poole and the head of the Church of Belial.

[B25] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this work leads the Brotherhood of British Freemen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Point Counter Point):
    Name this long work about a morass of married upper-class folks contemplating and having affairs. Characters include Walter and John Bidlake and Philip Quarles.
  Part 2 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    Point Counter Point is a novel by this British author, who often wrote of the foibles of the upper class. He's also famous for the dystopian novel Brave New World.
  Part 3 (ans: Eyeless in Gaza):
    This experimental novel by Huxley features chapters that are chronologically out of order with no transitions in between them. It centers on the life of Anthony Beavis and takes its title from Milton.
