=== STOCK CLUES: Baudelaire ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 76 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 39 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: drunkenness [or ivre or ivresse; or intoxication or inebriation; accept "Morning of Drunkenness" or "Matinee d'Ivresse"; accept "Be Drunk" or "Get Drunk" or "Be Inebriated" or "Enivrez-vous"; accept "The Drunken Boat" or "Le Bateau Ivre"] (The poem in the first sentence is "Morning of Drunkenness" by Rimbaud. "Be Drunk" is by Charles Baudelaire.)
  - A poem titled for this condition notes, "It began with a certain disgust and ended... in a panicked rout of perfumes," and ends with the prediction, "now is the time of the assassins." In a prose poem titled for this condition, the addressee is told not to be "the martyred slave of time" and to reach this state via "poetry or virtue." A poem titled for this state notes, "I miss Europe with its ancient parapets!" and was heavily inspired by Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.
  - A poem from the collection Paris Spleen is titled for a command to "Be" in this state.
  - The speaker recalls, "I no longer felt myself guided by haulers" in a poem titled for this condition that a 16-year-old poet sent to Paul Verlaine.
  - For 10 points, a poem by Arthur Rimbaud is titled for a "boat" in what condition? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Embarkation for Cythera [or The Embarkation to Cythera; or The Voyage to Cythera; or Pilgrimage to the Isle of Cythera; or L'embarquement pour Cythere; accept reasonable translations mentioning a journey to or from Cythera] (The poem in the second sentence is "A Voyage to Cythera" by Charles Baudelaire. The other Watteau painting is The Shop Sign of Gersaint.)
  - This painting inspired a pastel and charcoal series of an urban wasteland made in the 1980s by William Kentridge.
  - In a darker poem inspired by this painting, a traveler sees birds pecking at a corpse on a "gallows tree." On the right side of this reception piece, a bow and quiver sit below a statue adorned with pink roses.
  - Though its main version is in the Louvre, a second version of this painting is in Berlin's Charlottenburg Palace, which also houses its artist's painting of works being boxed up at a dealer's shop.
  - On the left of this painting, a red cloth drapes the prow of a ship, above which fly several cupids.
  - It is unclear whether the joyous aristocrats in this fete galante are heading to or from the title Greek island.
  - For 10 points, name this Rococo painting by Jean-Antoine Watteau. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire; accept "On Some Motifs in Baudelaire"] (The fourth sentence references Solnit's Wanderlust and Elkin's Flaneuse. The fifth sentence is about the "Parisian Scenes" section of Les Fleurs du mal.)
  - A fragment on this poet likens him to a photographer who sees the "essence of things" in his negatives.
  - This poet's line "Everything for me becomes allegory" provided the starting point for a study subtitled "A Lyric Poet in the Era of High Capitalism." This 19th-century poet is said to put "shock experience at the very center of his" art in an essay "On Some Motifs" in his work.
  - This poet's idea of "botanizing on the asphalt" is cited in "histories" by Rebecca Solnit and Lauren Elkin. 18 "scenes" by this poet that inspired the essay "The Translator's Task" comprise a 24-hour cycle critiquing a renovated city.
  - In the Arcades Project, Walter Benjamin  used this poet's image of a "passionate spectator" for whom "the crowd is his element." For 10 points, what poet's essay "The Painter of Modern Life" originated the archetype of the flaneur? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire] (Bataille directly quotes Jean-Paul Sartre's analysis of Baudelaire in his book Literature and Evil. Walter Benjamin contrasts Baudelaire with his contemporary Victor Hugo.)
  - A different author's quotations of this writer's letter to his legal advisor are weighed by Georges Bataille in the second chapter of a book that opens, "Literature is not innocent." This author is claimed to have "sundered himself from [the crowd] as a hero," unlike his contemporary, in an essay from a different author's Arcades Project. [PWR]
  - An essay by this author praises watercolor artist Constantin Guys ["GHEES"] as an "eternal convalescent" who resembles the narrator of (*) Edgar Allan Poe's "The Man in the Crowd." Walter Benjamin's essays on this author of "The Painter of Modern Life" expound on his idea of the flaneur. [PWR]
  - This man appended his most famous collection with Tableaux Parisiens during Paris' renovation.
  - For 10 points, name this Symbolist poet who addressed a "hypocrite reader" in Les Fleurs du Mal. [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - An ornithology grad student forgets all she knows about birds after part of her brain falls in the toilet in a story from a collection titled in reference to this author. [PWR]
  - Frederick Seidel's "Poem by the Bridge at Ten-Shin" rhymes the name of this poet with an image comparing the mons pubis of a woman to Central Park's position in Manhattan.
  - One poem about this poet claims that he "opened up a hamburger stand / in San Francisco, / but he put flowers / between the buns." The Canadian poet Hazel wakes in a hotel room to find she's written the complete works of this poet in a metafictional novel by Lisa Robertson named for a "fractal." This poet is imagined as the "Galilee Hitch-Hiker" in a sequence of poems from (*) Richard Brautigan's The Pill vs The Springhill Mine Disaster. [PWR]
  - A book by this poet inspired the title of Gunnhild Øyehaug's 2023 collection.
  - This poet wrote about a Pierrot attempting to rob a cleaning woman in pantomime in the essay "On the Essence of Laughter." Nalo Hopkinson's The Salt Roads fictionalizes the life of the half-Haitian Jeanne Duval, the mistress of this poet.
  - For 10 points, what French poet inspired Lemony Snicket's choice of the surname for the orphans in A Series of Unfortunate Events? [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lesbos [prompt on Greece] (The second sentence refers to Charles Baudelaire's "Lesbos.")
  - The speaker of a poem titled for this place begins, "Viciousness in the kitchen! / The potatoes hiss" and refuses to drown her kittens; that poem is by Sylvia Plath. [PWR]
  - This title place is called a "land of hot and languorous nights" in a poem that, along with "The Vampire's Metamorphoses" and "Lethe," was one of six to be censored from initial publication in the collection it appears in.
  - A poet from this island feels "greener than grass" and "thin / fire ... racing under skin" in a poem that begins (*) "He seems to me equal to the gods." The lyric poet Alcaeus lived on this island, which is home to an author who pleads with a "deathless" deity "of the spangled mind" in Anne Carson's translation If Not, Winter.
  - For 10 points, name this Greek island home to Sappho, which inspired a term for gay women. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - In a poem by this author, a prophetess curses an "idle dreamer" who mixed "honesty with what belongs to love" and explains that "women here below can serve only one master" to her lover Hippolyta. [PWR]
  - Another poem by this author claims that violating the "established cult" by having heterosexual relations caused "the virile Sappho, paramour and poet" to "[die] the day of her blasphemy." This poet beseeches one who teaches the "taste for Heaven / To the cursed pariah, even to the leper" in yet another poem, which concludes with a six-line (*) prayer that the speaker shall rest between the title figure's brows by the Tree of Knowledge. [PWR]
  - This author's poems "The Damned Women" and "Lesbos" were among the six censored from the first edition of his best- known collection, which also contains a poem that bids the "Wisest of Angels" to "take pity on my long despair!" For 10 points, name this poet who included "The Litanies of Satan" in The Flowers of Evil. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - Pablo Neruda, in The Yellow Heart, mentions seeing a "surviving" copy of this poet's works next to a destroyed book by Cervantes. [PWR]
  - This non-English speaking poet is frequently misquoted in the "Blow-Up" section of Yo-Yo Boing!. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem about this man's tomb declares that "We breathe in always though it bring us death." T.S.
  - Eliot alludes to this poet with the phrase "Unreal city," and he quotes this poet in the final line of The Waste Land's first section. [PWR]
  - This poet added six suppressed poems and a (*) "tableaux" to a collection that includes a description of a "comic" and "ugly" bird with large wings. [PWR]
  - In the opening to that collection, this poet calls the subject a hypocrite before addressing the reader as "My twin!
  - My brother!" For 10 points, identify this poet of Les Fleurs du Mal. [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire (the leadin is Benjamin's analysis of "A une passante")
  - An essay about this author claims the bourgeoisie desires "velvet and plush" covers to make up for the fact that "private life leaves no traces in the big city." That essay about this author theorizes a "commodity-soul" characterized by extreme empathy and calls this author a "secret agent - an agent of the secret discontent of his class with its own rule." This author described one figure as "a prince who is everywhere in possession of his incognito," whose knowledge of humanity is compared to Bacon's idols of the marketplace in a set of essays about this author "in the Era of High Capitalism" by Walter Benjamin.
  - This author is said to have coined the term "modernity," and he examined Poe's "The Man of the Crowd" in an essay about "Monsieur G." For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the flaneur in "The Painter of Modern Life." [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - This author described "laughing Sganarelle (sgin-arr-ella) claiming his due" and "a doleful beggar-- stout-armed, vengeance-bent, Proud as Antisthenes" in a poem where "chaste, gaunt" Elvire begs "one more rapturous smile." This author declared that "a heart like mine will not be satisfied" with "vignette-style lovelies," claiming that "my chasm-heart needs Aeschylus to strew / its unplumbed depths." This poet wrote about the heavens hanging low "on our groaning, (*) ennui-ridden soul" and wrote a poem dedicated to Victor Hugo that describes the title bird as a "poor beast ... myth marked for death." That poem begins, "Andromache, I think of you!" This poet included "The Swan" in a collection where he says, "Hypocrite reader, - my double, - my brother!" For 10 points, name this author of Les Fleurs de Mal. [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - A review by this critic distinguishes positivist from imaginist artists, siding with the latter because the imagination is the "queen of the faculties." This author's distinction of "ladies" and "fallen women" in the "Women and Prostitutes" section of one of his essays is expanded into a grid of places and the artists who could paint them in Griselda Pollock's "Modernity and the Spaces of Femininity." Letters between this critic and Manet are quoted in T. [PWR]
  - J. [PWR]
  - Clark's "Olympia's Choice," which appears in a book titled after an essay by this man.
  - This author discussed the illustrator Constantin Guys as a "passionate (*) spectator" for whom "it is an immense joy to set up house in the heart of the multitude." This author of "The Painter of Modern Life" had his response to Haussmannization discussed in the Arcades project of Walter Benjamin, who expanded his notion of the "flaneur." For 10 points, name this author who influenced Symbolist aesthetics with his Les Fleurs du Mal. [PWR,GIVE]

[T12] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]
  - In one letter, this essayist noted that he had little musical training, besides having heard a bit of Beethoven and Weber, but nonetheless glowingly reviewed the title composer's work.
  - This writer attacked the "empty words... we often hear fall" when people dismissed decadent literature in some "New Notes" on a certain author.
  - Another of this writer's essays opens by mocking tourists who walk quickly to the Louvre and "come to a rapturous halt" before a "Titian or a Raphael", and praises the work of "Monsieur G," a Crimean War correspondent named Constantin Guys.
  - This author of "Richard Wagner and Tannhauser in Paris" produced early French translations of Poe and wrote an essay called "The Painter of Modern Life" that includes a description of a "passionate spectator" for whom "the crowd is his element", the flaneur.
  - For 10 points, name this French author who included the section Spleen and Ideal in his poetry collection Les Fleurs du mal. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]
  - One poem by this writer consists of eight "medallions," or quatrains, that speak about the art of Rubens, Da Vinci, Rembrandt, Michelangelo and others who challenged the dignity of God. [PWR]
  - This author of "The Beacons" wrote another poem in which a bottle of wine sings a "song that's full of brotherhood and light" to a disinherited man.
  - He wrote another poem in which the speaker imagines his blood "gushing out in rhythmical sobs" from his body so that the city is turned into "islands of paving stones" amidst the flooding. [PWR]
  - This author's poems "The (*) Fountain of Blood" and "The Soul of Wine" are found in a collection whose prologue is addressed to a "hypocrite reader--my likeness--my brother!" For 10 points, "Revolt," "Wine," "Death," and "Spleen and Ideal," are sections from which French Symbolist's collection Flowers of Evil? [GIVE]

[T14] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - A prose poem by this author asserts "To enjoy the crowd is an art" and states "multitude and solitude are the same." This writer imagines "being as happy as a king" after dropping his wife down a well because "her screaming would drive me crazy" in a poem in which the speaker laughs at "God," the "Devil" and the "Holy Table." Another poem by this author tells its addressee to "take pity on my long misery" after every couplet.
  - Another of his poems compares the Devil to Hermes Trismegistus and describes a "refined monster" who "dreams of scaffolds and smokes his hookah pipe." This poet of "The Sick Muse" and "The Litanies of Satan" put those poems into a collection whose sections include "Revolt," "Wine," and "Spleen and Ideal." For 10 points, name this French poet of The Flowers of Evil. [GIVE]

[T15] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Pierre Baudelaire
  - In one poem by this author, the speaker imagines himself living near a young giantess, like a cat at the feet of a queen.
  - In one poem, this author describes perfumes that seem "as cool as the flesh of children / Sweet as oboes, green as meadows" after describing Nature as a temple with "living pillars".
  - Another of his poems asks whether a "green succubus" or "rosy elf" has poured fear and love over the title figure, who has "horror and madness" reflected in her face.
  - In another poem, he compared the Poet to the title "prince of the skies" whose wings drag like oars.
  - Those poems by him, including "Correspondences", "The Sick Muse", and "The Albatross" appear in a section called "Spleen and Ideal".
  - For 10 points, name this French forerunner of Symbolism, many of whose poems are collected in The Flowers of Evil. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - One of this author's poems compares the sky to the "black lid" of a vast cauldron which is slowly boiling all of humanity.
  - The speaker of another of this author's poems compares his soul to "a ship without a mast on a monstrous, borderless sea" after encountering a sinister number of identical hobbled men.
  - This author exclaimed "Andromache, I think of you!" at the beginning of a poem which laments that a city's face changes faster than a human heart.
  - This author of "The Cover" and "Seven Old Men" wrote about travellers who discover "an oasis of horror in a desert of boredom" in his poem "The Voyage," and lamented the Haussmannization of Paris in a poem named for a bird which escapes its cage.
  - He included that poem, "The Swan," in a collection which proclaims "hypocrite reader! my double, my brother!" For 10 points, name this French poet who included the sections "Wine," "Death," and "Spleen and Ideal" in his book The Flowers of Evil. [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - This man wrote "It is useless and tedious to represent what exists, because nothing that exists satisfies me" in his tract On Photography.
  - One poem by this man sees the speaker wonder why the title figure passes up having "many a Valois" in her thrall and hides her hot ginger body under a beggar's rags. [PWR]
  - This author included "Let us Beat up the Poor!" in a poetry collection inspired by his obsessive reading of Bertrand's Gaspard de la Nuit.
  - "The (*) Mendicant Redhead" appears in a collection by this man that begins "Folly, error, sin, avarice" in the opening section "To the Reader," which extols "he is Ennui!" That most famous collection by this man features the poem "Litanies of Satan" and sections like "Wine," "Revolt," "Death," and "Spleen and Ideal." For 10 points, identify this French poet of Les Fleurs de Mal. [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire
  - This author asked if you "observed how frequently coffins For old women are almost as small as a child's" in a poem whose speaker follows those "little old ladies" around.
  - One of his speakers tells "my child, my sister, think of the rapture of living together there!" This author claimed that "The artist moves little, or even not at all, in intellectual and political circles" in his essay "The Painter of Modern Life." His most famous poem describes how "often, to amuse themselves the men of the crew Lay hold" of a bird.
  - Jeanne Duval was the Haitian-born lover of this author of "Invitation to a Voyage" and "The Albatross".
  - In his poem "Correspondences," this poet described nature as a "forest of symbols," from which the Symbolist movement he was head of took its name.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included sections like "Wine" and "Spleen and Ideal" in Les Fleurs du Mal. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A 2017 book by Lauren Elkin borrows a term coined by this author in describing women like Agnes ("ah-NYESS") Varda and Virginia Woolf as flaneuses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    What proto-symbolist poet wrote "The Painter of Modern Life" and Paris Spleen?
  Part 2 (ans: passante [accept "A une passante"; prompt on passerby]):
    The traditional feminine counterpart to the flaneur is this archetype. The speaker makes fleeting eye contact with one of these women in a poem from Les Fleurs du Mal that concludes, "O you that I had loved, O you who knew it!"
  Part 3 (ans: Monsieur Vinteuil ("vahn-TOY")):
    The narrator of In Search of Lost Time compares Charles Swann to a man seeing a passante whose "new beauty... gives his own sensibility a greater value" when he first hears this fictional composer's violin sonata.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: During one of her many spells in a psychiatric hospital, Zelda Fitzgerald learned a new language to translate a poem set in this place into English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hell [or enfer; accept A Season in Hell or Une saison en enfer; accept "Don Juan in Hell" or "Don Juan aux enfers"]):
    Identify this place, the setting of a poem in which the speaker describes the "hero unmoved, leaning on his rapier." The speaker says "my life was one long party" in an extended poem titled for a "Season" in this place.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    The author of A Season in Hell, Arthur Rimbaud ("ram-BO"), called this author "the king of poets, a true God." This author of the poem "Don Juan in Hell" wrote Les Fleurs du Mal.
  Part 3 (ans: Delirium [or Delires; accept Delirium I: The Foolish Virgin - The Infernal Spouse or Delirium II: Alchemy of the Word; accept Delires I: Vierge folle - L'Epoux infernal or Delires II: Alchimie du verbe]):
    English or original-language term acceptable. Rimbaud explored his relationship with Paul Verlaine in two sections of A Season In Hell titled for this word, which are subtitled for the "alchemy of words" and an "infernal bridegroom."

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote "NOTHING" in all caps followed by "of the memorable crisis / or might" in a poem with an unusual layout. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stephane Mallarme):
    Name this French poet of "A Throw of the Dice will Never Abolish Chance." In a dreamlike monologue by him, the title mythological creature lusts after nymphs upon awaking from a daytime nap.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    Mallarme wrote of "the buried temple through the sewer's dark" in a poem about the death of this fellow French poet of Les Fleurs du Mal.
  Part 3 (ans: Edgar Allan Poe):
    Mallarme also wrote a poem about the "Tomb" of this author that describes him as "the Poet with a naked sword." Baudelaire spent the last twenty years of his life translating this English-language author into French.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Pierre de Ronsard ("rohn-SAR") wishes he could gain this quality at the beginning of a sonnet to Cassandra that describes two of Jupiter's love affairs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: yellow [or jaune; accept Yellow Loves or Les amours jaunes]):
    Name this adjective, which describes "loves" in the title of a seminal collection by Tristan Corbiere ("korb-YAIR").
  Part 2 (ans: A Rebours [or Against the Grain; or Against Nature]):
    This Joris-Karl Huysmans ("zhoh-REESE karl weese-MAHNSS") novel about the aesthete Jean des Esseintes ("days ess-ENT") appears as an unnamed "poisonous yellow book" in Oscar Wilde's ThePicture of Dorian Gray.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    This poet, who called yellow the "color of death," depicted a sickly "old man with tattered yellow clothes" in "The Seven Old Men," part of the "Parisian Scenes" section of his collection Les Fleurs du Mal ("lay flur doo MALL").

[B5] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the impact of French Symbolism on Latin American poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    This Nicaraguan poet pulled from French Symbolism for his Modernismo collection Azul... This poet called the title figure a "professor of energy" and an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar" in his poem "To Roosevelt."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Pierre Baudelaire):
    In her essay "The Incarnate World," Alejandra Pizarnik noted how she took inspiration from the "suffering" of this Symbolist poet of Les Fleurs du Mal.
  Part 3 (ans: Cesar Vallejo [or Cesar Abraham Vallejo Mendoza]):
    Some literary critics have drawn similarities between the poetry of Baudelaire and this poet, who stated "There are blows in life, so powerful" in his poem "The Black Heralds."

[B6] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This person's forehead is encircled by "a light of fire as a crown forever" in a poem by an author who also wrote a poem that begins with this person saying, "My life is bitter with thy love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sappho [accept "Sapphics"] (The poems in the lead-in are "Sapphics" and "Anactoria" by Algernon Swinburne.)):
    Name this person who "died on the day of" committing "blasphemy" according to a poem which notes how this person "departed / To find out if the sea is indulgent and kind."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire] (The six poems are the "condemned poems." The collection is Les Epaves.)):
    The poem "Lesbos," along with "The Jewels" and "To She Who Is Too Gay," is part of a group of six censored poems by this author later republished in a collection titled for "scraps" or "wrecks."
  Part 3 (ans: Catullus [or Gaius Valerius Catullus]):
    Algernon Swinburne asks Baudelaire to "take at my hands this garland, and farewell" in the elegy "Ave Atque Vale," which is titled in reference to an elegy by this Latin author written for his brother.

[B7] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Number and The Siren, Quentin Meillassoux argues that the "unique number" in a poem by this author is 707, which he also found to be the number of words in that poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stephane Mallarme):
    Name this poet, who described the "eternal circumstances / from the depths of a shipwreck" in his typographically unorthodox poem "A Throw of the Dice Will Never Abolish Chance."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    Mallarme used multiples of seven lines in his sonnets memorializing other French poets, such as his sonnet on the tomb of this author of Les Fleurs du Mal.
  Part 3 (ans: "-yx" ("eeks") [accept "X" ("eks" or "ks")]):
    The speaker alludes to the Pleiades as a "septet of scintillations" in a Mallarme sonnet beginning "her pure fingernails...," also known as his "Sonnet in" this sound, because six of its lines end in this sound.

[B8] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author used words like "onyx" and "ptyx" in his "Sonnet en -yx ("eeks")." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stephane Mallarme [or Etienne Mallarme]):
    Name this French Symbolist poet. He wrote "These nymphs, I would perpetuate them" to open his pastoral poem "The Afternoon of a Faun."
  Part 2 (ans: Edgar Allan Poe AND Charles Baudelaire [accept answers in either order]):
    Two answers required. Mallarme's "sonnets of homage" include two poems titled for the "tomb" of these two writers. One of these authors introduced the other, an American, to European audiences with French translations of stories such as "Manuscript Found in a Bottle."
  Part 3 (ans: Anatole [accept Anatole France or Francois-Anatole Thibault; prompt on Francois; accept For Anatole's Tomb or A Tomb for Anatole]):
    Mallarme left over 200 pages of notes for the tomb of a person of this name, his eight-year-old son who died of rheumatism. A French author with this first name wrote the poetry collection The Bride of Corinth.

[B9] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the 19th century's genre of newspaper literature, the feuilleton (foy-tawn). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: serial novels [accept word forms like serialized fiction; accept publication in installments; accept publication in numbers, parts or fascicles; prompt on answers indicating literature published in periodicals]):
    The feuilleton included criticism and brief sketches, as well as novels published in this form. Charles Dickens published most of his novels in this format, which often used cliffhangers to maintain reader interest.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    A book by this author collects their feuilleton prose poems, such as "The Desire to Paint" and "Let's Beat Up the Poor." This author's essay "The Painter of Modern Life" first appeared in feuilleton form.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Roth (The second novel is Radetzky March.)):
    A James Wood essay compares the style of this author's novels to this author's many Viennese feuilletons. In a novel by this author of Hotel Savoy, the last member of the Trotta family dies in a pointless WWI skirmish.

[B10] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem envisions a room where "ornate ceilings" and "limpid mirrors" will give an aura of "oriental splendor." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Invitation to the Voyage" [or "L'invitation au voyage"]):
    Name this poem from Les fleurs du mal ("lay FLURR doo MAHL"), which begins by asking a "sister" "child," "think how sweet to go out there and live together" on the title journey.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire ("boh-du-LAIR")):
    This French Symbolist poet included "Invitation to the Voyage" in his collection Les fleurs du mal.
  Part 3 (ans: volupte ("voh-loop-TAY") [or voluptuous]):
    Three short stanzas of "Invitation to the Voyage" imagine a place where all is "order" and "beauty," which is followed by three adjectives. Give the last adjective, which is also the last word of the poem. You may give either the original French word or its English cognate, which is the most common translation.

[B11] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: While staying at a mental hospital in Switzerland, Zelda Fitzgerald began a translation of a poetry collection by this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Rimbaud [or Jean Nicolas Arthur Rimbaud]):
    Name this author. Near the beginning of a collection by this author, the speaker "called for executioners so that, while dying, I could bite the butts of their rifles."
  Part 2 (ans: A Season in Hell [or Une Saison en Enfer]):
    This prose collection by Rimbaud, which was inspired by his tumultuous relationship with Paul Verlaine, includes the sections "Bad Blood" and "Delirium I."
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    Rimbaud was a poet of the Symbolist movement, which was begun after the publication of this author's collection The Flowers of Evil.

[B12] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: If you're still playing quizbowl, you must change your life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke [accept Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke, I guess]):
    This poet wrote that "you must change your life" in his Archaic Torso of Apollo, as well as the Duino Elegies.
  Part 2 (ans: Sonnets to Orpheus):
    Rilke wrote about "new beginnings, intimations, changes" in this collection of his, which was completed around the same time as his Duino Elegies. Rilke dedicated this poetry collection to his daughter's friend.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Baudelaire (The first poem is "The Swan". The second poem is "To the Reader", which is the first poem in Fleurs du mal.)):
    This poet wrote about how "the shape of a city changes... quickly, alas!" in a poem which compares its title being to "a man in exile". Another poem by this author describes Trismegist lying on a pillow and declares that "our souls have not enough boldness."

[B13] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a foreword to Elizabeth Smart's By Grand Central Station I Sat Down and Wept, Brigid Brophy compared this author's Little Poems in Prose to "a box of marvelous but unstrung beads." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire] (The prose poem is "Let's Beat Up The Poor!")):
    Name this author of a prose poem in which a man has a fistfight with a beggar outside a bar to determine if the beggar is worthy of receiving his charity.
  Part 2 (ans: spleen [accept "Spleen and Ideal"; accept Paris Spleen]):
    Keith Waldrop's translation of Little Poems in Prose is named for this emotion, which Baudelaire juxtaposed with the "Ideal" in the title of the first section of Les Fleurs du Mal.
  Part 3 (ans: glazier [or windowpane maker or vitrier; accept any answer describing someone who works with or sells glass; prompt on salesman or street vendor or equivalents; prompt on craftsman or artisan or equivalents]):
    The preface of Paris Spleen also pokes fun at an Arsene Houssaye prose poem about an encounter with a man of this profession. In a poem from Paris Spleen, the narrator drops a flowerpot on a "Shoddy" man with this profession.

[B14] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author from this movement used an unusual typographical arrangement for his long poem A Throw of the Dice will Never Abolish Chance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Symbolist movement [or Symbolism; prompt on Parnassianism or Parnassism]):
    Name this literary movement which included a collection that begins with a poem addressing a "hypocrite reader" as "my alias, -- my twin." That collection from this movement also contains "The Albatross."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    This French Symbolist poet included "To the Reader" and "The Albatross" in his collection Les Fleurs du mal.
  Part 3 (ans: Theophile Gautier ("goat-YAY") [or Pierre Jules Theophile Gautier]):
    Baudelaire dedicated Les Fleurs du mal to this "perfect magician of French letters." This author of Enamels and Cameos advocated "art for art's sake" in the preface to his Mademoiselle de Maupin.

[B15] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about essays appearing in Walter Benjamin's ("BEN-yah-meen's") collection Illuminations, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bertolt Brecht):
    The essay "What is Epic Theater?" discusses the theories of this German playwright who wrote Mother Courage and Her Children and The Caucasian Chalk Circle.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    The essay on "some motifs" in the work of this author claims he made a "far-sighted judgment" by deploying the line "Hypocrite lecteur-mon semblable,-mon frere" to close the opening poem of his main collection.
  Part 3 (ans: "Unpacking My Library" [accept "Ich entpacke meine Bibliothek aus"]):
    In this opening essay of the book, Benjamin discusses his delight in buying a copy of The Wild Ass's Skin at an auction and waxes philosophically on the nature of collecting as he begins to arrange his own collection of books.

[B16] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Jane Tompkins edited a collection of essays titled for this school of criticism "From Formalism to Post-Structuralism," which includes pieces by David Bleich and Wolfgang Iser. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: reader-response theory [or reader-response criticism]):
    Stanley Fish theorized that people form "Interpretive communities" when encountering literature as part of what school, which generally holds that meaning comes from people who interact with texts?
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    Tomkins's anthology includes Michael Riffaterre's ("riff-uh-TAIR's") essay about "poetic structures" in two readings of this author's poem "Les Chats" ("lay SHAH"). This French poet of "Spleen" supposedly learned English for the express purpose of translating Edgar Allan Poe, whose work this poet popularized throughout Europe.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosenblatt [accept Louise Rosenblatt or Roger Rosenblatt]):
    Louise, who had this surname, was a reader-response theorist who claimed that reading was a "transaction" in books such as Literature as Exploration, but was notably left out of Tomkins's anthology. This surname is shared by Roger, a journalist for Time magazine who wrote the essay "Children of War" and the memoir Making Toast.

[B17] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet is described as one "For whom all winds are quiet as the sun, / All waters as the shore" in a eulogy published the year before they actually died. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles (Pierre) Baudelaire):
    Name this poet eulogized in Algernon Swinburne's Catullus-inspired poem "Ave Atque Vale," which opens with a quote from their collection The Flowers of Evil.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Villon ("vee-YAWN")):
    Swinburne claimed that this poet had a "sad bad glad mad brother's name" and was "Prince of All Ballad-Makers." This poet asked, "but where are the snows of yesteryear?" in "The Ballade of the Ladies of Bygone Days."
  Part 3 (ans: Theophile Gautier (tay-oh-FEEL goat-YAY)):
    Stephane Mallarme asked Swinburne to contribute to a Tombeau dedicated to this poet. This poet compared a sketch of mermaids to "drowned lilies dancing" in the collection Enamels and Cameos.

[B18] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This movement aimed to "clothe the ideal in sensuous form," according to a manifesto written by Jean Moreas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Symbolism [or the Symbolist movement]):
    Name this French literary movement, preceded by Parnassianism, that favored visions and dreams over realism. Writers in this movement included the lovers Arthur Rimbaud and Paul Verlaine.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    This Symbolist poet addressed the "hypocrite reader" in a poem from his collection Les Fleurs du Mal.
  Part 3 (ans: Edgar Allan Poe (the poem is "The Tomb of Edgar Poe" by Stephane Mallarme)):
    This American author was a major inspiration to the Symbolist movement, especially Baudelaire, who translated some of his stories into French. A Symbolist poem about this author's "dazzling sepulchre" ends by describing "the black flights of Blasphemy scattered into the future."

[B19] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A closeup of one of these paintings by this artist that is titled The Wounded Man provides the cover for Linda Nochlin's monograph on their artist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: self-portraits of Gustave Courbet [prompt on partial answers]):
    Name both the genre of paintings and their artist. One of these works by this artist prominently features a cello, while another shows the wide eyed central figure pulling his hair back in anxiety and is titled The Desperate Man.
  Part 2 (ans: A Burial At Ornans [or Un enterrement a Ornans; or A Funeral At Ornans]):
    For the 1850 Salon, Gustave Courbet used the gigantic scale of history painting for this painting that depicts a funeral for his great-uncle in his hometown.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    While not posing for his friend Courbet's The Artist's Studio, this poet and art critic savaged the mechanical nature of photography and defined the modern artist as a spectator in The Painter of Modern Life.

[B20] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The "Dedication" of this poetry collection is made out to the author's friend Theophile Gautier ("tay-oh-FEEL goat-YAY"), whom it calls a "magician of letters." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Flowers of Evil [or Les fleurs du mal]):
    Name this poetry collection whose entry "The Litanies of Satan" repeatedly implores the title figure to "take pity on my long misery!"
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    This decadent 19th-century French poet wrote The Flowers of Evil.
  Part 3 (ans: corpses [or cadavers or dead bodies or carcasses or charognes or morts; accept dead people; accept "A Carcass" or "Une charogne" or "The Joyous Corpse" or "Le mort joyeux"; prompt on bodies]):
    A disturbing poem from The Flowers of Evil that sexualizes one of these objects describes watching it "blossom like a flower" in the summer while "black battalions" of creatures emerge from it. The speaker wishes to "sleep in oblivion like a shark" in a Baudelaire sonnet titled for a "joyous" one of these.

[B21] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem sees a creature that cried "homesick for his fair native lake: Rain, when will you fall? Thunder, when will you roll?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Swan" [or "Le Cygne"]):
    Name this poem dedicated to Victor Hugo about a bird "escaped from his cage." It opens "Andromache, I think of you!"
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    "The Swan" appears in the "Parisian Scenes" section of this poet's Les Fleurs du Mal ("lay flurr doo MALL").
  Part 3 (ans: the reader [accept "Au Lecteur"]):
    In a poem from Les Fleurs du Mal, Baudelaire warns this person of Ennui, who "dreams of scaffolds as he smokes his hookah pipe." Baudelaire calls this person a "hypocrite" and "my fellow, my brother."

[B22] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about Patrice Lumumba's murder in A Season in the Congo, as well as a play about "King Christopher" set in Haiti. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aime Fernand David Cesaire):
    Name this author, who claimed that Europe was "morally, spiritually indefensible" in his Discourse on Colonialism.
  Part 2 (ans: negritude):
    Cesaire was one of the initiators of this literary movement seeking a common identity for the black diaspora, which he explored in his Notebook of a Return to My Native Land. Sartre compared Cesaire's use of this word to "picking up a stone that had been thrown at him."
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    In the Notebook, the narrator recalls passengers on a tram mocking a black man described as "COMICAL AND UGLY," a quote taken from "The Albatross," a poem in this French Symbolist's collection Les fleurs du mal.

[B23] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem addressed to this person describes "ennui" (on-WEE) as something that "willingly would make rubbish of the earth." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Reader [or "To the Reader"; or lecteur]):
    Name this person who is called a "hypocrite, my likeness, my brother" in a poem that laments accepting the "canvas of our pitiable desires" because we are "not brave enough."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    "To the Reader" opens Les Fleurs du Mal, or The Flowers of Evil, a poetry collection by this French author.
  Part 3 (ans: A Season in Hell [or Une Saison en Enfer]):
    Baudelaire was called "the king of poets" by Arthur Rimbaud (ram-BOH), who himself wrote and published this 1873 nine-part prose poem containing "deliriums" describing his relationship with Paul Verlaine (vair-LEN).

[B24] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of one poem in this collection imagines living "like a voluptuous cat at the feet of a queen" and sleeping "nonchalantly in the shade of" the title figure's breasts like a "peaceful hamlet." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Les fleurs du mal [or The Flowers of Evil]):
    Name this collection that includes "The Giantess." Another poem in this collection begins by listing "folly, error, sin, avarice" and ends by claiming the "hypocrite reader" as "my likeness" and "my brother."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    Les fleurs du mal was written by this French Symbolist poet and frequent translator of Edgar Allan Poe.
  Part 3 (ans: Theophile Gautier):
    Baudelaire dedicated Les fleurs du mal to this "impeccable poet" and "perfect magician of French letters" who described the title entity "Seeping over the windowsill, / Like frosted breath" in his poem "Smoke."

[B25] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This figure's name is possibly an allusion to the villainous protagonist of a novel by Etienne Delecluze, where she is a harlot and manipulator of Pope Innocent X that amasses much wealth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Olympia):
    Name this woman, who in her first public appearance, is shown accompanied by five lines of verse by Zacharie Astruc, stating that she is the "august young woman in whom ardor is never wakeful."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]):
    The only primary account that survives of Edouard Manet's reaction to the reception of Olympia are epistles addressed to this art critic and poet. He wrote that sculptures should seize the "nobility" of prostitutes in The Painter of Modern Life.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Fantin-Latour [or Ignace Henri Jean Theodore Fantin-Latour]):
    In one of those epistles, Manet recounts how this "charming" painter is one of the few that defends his painting Olympia. He depicted Emmanuel Chabrier, and Vincent d'Indy in his 1885 painting Around the Piano.
