=== STOCK CLUES: Nan Goldin ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nan Goldin <HF>
  - Writing about a group that this artist often photographed, this artist said that "I accepted them as they saw themselves; I had no desire to unmask them with my camera." In Vivienne in the green dress, NYC, this photographer depicted Vivienne Dick, who helped pick the music that accompanies one of this artist's collections. [PWR]
  - A person wearing a blue wig and another wearing a mesh shirt under a gold bustier ["boo-stee-AY"] appear in one of this photographer's works, in which the flash highlights the subjects' heavy makeup. [PWR]
  - This artist depicted her own (*) bruised face in a photo of [herself] one month after being battered.
  - Her photograph Misty and Jimmy Paulette in a taxi, NYC is one of many she took depicting drag queens.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer of diaristic works showcasing her life in New York, many of which are included in her slideshow The Ballad of Sexual Dependency. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This magazine was started in San Francisco to highlight West Coast art and land art for locals tired of hearing about New York, but its second owner, Charles Cowles, moved it to New York anyway. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Artforum):
    Name this magazine whose former editors include John Koplans and Michelle Kuo. Rosalind Kraus left it in protest to found October after it published a photo of Lynda Benglis holding a dildo.
  Part 2 (ans: Judy Chicago):
    This artist, who placed an ad in Artforum explaining why she changed her last name from Cohen, created 39 place settings representing famous women in The Dinner Party.
  Part 3 (ans: Nan Goldin):
    This artist published "I Survived the Opiate Crisis", discussing her experience with addiction and campaign against the Sackler family, in Artforum. She's also known for her photo series The Ballad of Sexual Dependency, which depicts New York gay culture in the 80s.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: She's not Candy Darling, but a shrine to this woman partly occupies the northern wall of Greer Lankton's installation piece It's All About ME, Not You. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Patti Smith [or Patricia Lee Smith]):
    Name this musician. A Robert Mapplethorpe photo of this musician dressed androgynously serves as the cover art for her album Horses.
  Part 2 (ans: dolls [accept rag dolls]):
    The room in It's All About ME, Not You is mostly filled by pieces of art in this medium frequently used by Greer Lankton. Near the doorway of the installation, Lankton placed her collection of "Raggedy Ann" examples of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Nan Goldin [or Nancy Goldin]):
    On a different wall of the installation, Lankton included a photo of her curled up in bed as her boyfriend smokes, an image originally taken by this friend of hers. That photo earlier appeared on the title page of this photographer's photobook The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.

[B3] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer's first solo exhibition depicted the Boston transgender community in works such as Ivy wearing a fall, Boston. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nan Goldin [or Nancy Goldin]):
    Name this photographer who depicted New York City's "No wave" subculture in The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.
  Part 2 (ans: Diane Arbus):
    Goldin's depiction of marginalized people in The Ballad of Sexual Dependency drew upon the work of this photographer whose works include Identical Twins, Roselle, New Jersey and an image of the "Jewish Giant" Eddie Carmel.
  Part 3 (ans: Andy Warhol [or Andrew Warhola]):
    The Ballad of Sexual Dependency was originally conceived as a slideshow exhibition partly set to music by The Velvet Underground, which was once managed by this artist whose studio was known as The Factory.

[B4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In discussing their most famous work, this artist contested the idea that they were marginalised by saying "we were the world," and instead they "made [their] people into superstars". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nan Goldin [or Nancy Goldin]):
    Name this artist who, in 2023, was named the most influential person in the art world by ArtReview Power. In 2022, this photographer documented protests against the Sackler family in All The Beauty and The Bloodshed and helped organise the advocacy organisation P.A.I.N.
  Part 2 (ans: The Ballad of Sexual Dependency):
    Arguably Goldin's best known work is this work, which Goldin described as "frozen in amber". This work comprises starkly honest photographs of her friends' lives in New York and focuses on "intimacy and autonomy".
  Part 3 (ans: sex work [or prostitution or reasonable equivalents]):
    Many of Goldin's subjects and Goldin herself engaged in this profession. Goldin called this often stigmatised work "hard work" and worried that viewers would see Ballad voyeuristically because of it.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer often captured gangs of adolescent boys that he called "Street Arabs." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Riis [or Jacob August Riis]):
    Name this photographer whose images of slums like Bandit's Roost frequently use a clothesline as a symbol for the poverty line. Many of those images are collected in a book by this photographer subtitled "studies among the tenements of New York."
  Part 2 (ans: flash photography):
    Riis once accidentally lit himself on fire while igniting the magnesium powder to produce this effect to illuminate the dark indoor spaces he often worked in.
  Part 3 (ans: Nan Goldin):
    Striking indoor flash photographs by this artist frequently depicted New York's queer no-wave subcultures. A 2022 documentary about this photographer showcases her activism against the Sackler family.

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The photograph on this book's cover shows a woman in bed staring up at a smoking, shirtless man sitting to her right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Ballad of Sexual Dependency (The work's author, Nan Goldin, is the woman in the photograph referenced in the first sentence.)):
    Name this collection of photography dedicated to the author's sister, who committed suicide. This slideshow-turned-book documents the lives of the photographer's "re-created family" of hard-partying bohemians in New York.
  Part 2 (ans: Diane Arbus):
    This woman photographed relatives in Identical Twins, Roselle, New Jersey, 1967 and documented so-called "freaks" in works like A Jewish Giant at Home with his Parents.
  Part 3 (ans: cigarettes [or cigs; accept candy cigarettes; accept Marlboro cigarettes; prompt on tobacco products or candy]):
    Sally Mann's most famous photograph shows her daughter Jessie staring into the camera while holding one of these things. Richard Prince "rephotographed" Sam Abell's advertisements for a company selling these products.

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist founded the activist group P.A.I.N., which has staged "die-ins" at many museums funded by the Sackler family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nan Goldin [or Nancy Goldin]):
    Name this photographer, who compiled the slideshow The Ballad of Sexual Dependency from their photos of New York's gay and no-wave subcultures.
  Part 2 (ans: AIDS crisis [or HIV crisis; or AIDS epidemic; or HIV epidemic; accept clear equivalents]):
    Goldin curated the 1989 exhibition Witnesses: Against Our Vanishing, which consisted of responses to this crisis. A massive "Memorial Quilt" commemorates this 1980s health crisis.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe [or Robert Michael Mapplethorpe]):
    Other photographers who depicted New York's gay subcultures in the 1980s include this artist, who took the cover photo for Patti Smith's album Horses. This photographer's controversial exhibition The Perfect Moment took place just after their 1989 death from AIDS.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: While working for i-D Magazine, this artist photographed a man and woman wearing only raincoats in "Lutz and Alex Sitting in the Trees." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wolfgang Tillmans):
    Name this first photographer to win the Turner prize, a German artist whose early work captures Berlin nightlife and gay subculture.
  Part 2 (ans: Brexit [or descriptions of the UK leaving the EU]):
    Tillmans designed a series of posters against this political event by combining his landscape photos with text like "No man is an island." A 2017 Banksy mural about this event depicts a worker on a ladder chipping yellow stars off a blue flag.
  Part 3 (ans: Nan Goldin):
    Like Tillmans, this photographer's work was included in the Reading Gaol exhibit Inside. This woman chronicled the love lives of Greenwich Village inhabitants in her artist's book The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.

[B9] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about removing the Sackler family's name from art museums, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Hito Steyerl ("SHTYE-airl")):
    This German artist's Actual Reality OS app "removes" the Sackler family's name from the Serpentine Galleries using AR. Her video art pieces include Factory of the Sun and Is the Museum a Battlefield?, which was inspired by the death of PKK fighter Andrea Wolf.
  Part 2 (ans: Nan Goldin):
    This woman leads the anti-Sackler group P.A.I.N., which called for the Met's "Sackler Wing" to be renamed. She took many pictures in the Bowery ("BAO-er-ee") district and many pictures of drag queens, like Misty and Jimmy Paulette in a Taxi.
  Part 3 (ans: Washington, D.C. [or Washington]):
    Though for supposedly unrelated reasons, in 2019 this city's Freer-Sackler Gallery rebranded as the National Museum of Asian Art. Steyerl's How Not to Be Seen was shown in this city's Hirshhorn Museum in 2018.
