=== STOCK CLUES: Truman ===
Tossup questions: 16 found, 101 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 35 found, 103 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 This Set is Garbo (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote or Truman Streckfus Persons] (The second sentence refers to In Cold Blood.)
  - This writer insisted on talking on the phone every day with his pet raven while rewriting a John Huston film on location, including a speech that claims "time is a crook." In an adaptation of a book by this writer, a man's heart beats audibly at the gallows while a priest recites Psalm 23. [PWR]
  - This writer's screenplays include the Maltese Falcon parody Beat the Devil and an adaptation of William Archibald's The (*) Innocents.
  - This writer plays the murdered host Lionel Twain in the 70s whodunit spoof Murder by Death.
  - An ending by this author in which a woman sets a cat free and absconds to Brazil was altered for an adaptation that uses Henry Mancini's "Moon River." For 10 points, name this author who created Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ARCHIVE (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Harry S. Truman
  - During this man's presidency, at least 20 people were killed when a devastating smog blanketed the Pittsburgh suburb of Donora. [PWR]
  - Commercial Comic's Malcolm Ater convinced this man's campaign to finance the first-ever comic book biography of a presidential candidate, with the villains being cigar-chomping (+) "big business" men. [PWR]
  - This president helped save corrupt New York City mayor William O'Dwyer from prosecution by appointing him Ambassador to Mexico; O'Dwyer was later recalled to testify to the Kefauver Committee on organized crime convened during this man's presidency. [PWR]
  - Under this president, Louis A. [PWR]
  - Johnson unsuccessfully tried to merge the (*) Marine Corps. into the Army. [PWR]
  - Inflation spiked after Congress abolished the Office of Price Administration over this president's veto; this man would later run against the "Do Nothing" Congress.
  - This president's attempt to nationalize the steel industry was rejected in the Youngstown Sheet & Tube case.
  - For 10 points, name this president who defeated Republican Thomas E. [GIVE]
  - Dewey in 1948.

[T3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Harry Truman
  - Under this president, the US supported a coup against Syrian president Shukri al-Quwatli that enabled the construction of an oil pipeline. [PWR]
  - This president gave a foreign tax credit called the Golden Gimmick to Saudi Arabia, which split oil revenues 50/50 with American companies. [PWR]
  - This president ended an Iran Crisis by pressuring the Soviets to withdraw their support from a separatist Azerbaijani government. [PWR]
  - This president repudiated his predecessor's promise of support to the (*) Saudi king by citing his relative lack of Arab constituents. [PWR]
  - This president's longtime friend Eddie Jacobson influenced an action he took against the advice of Dean Acheson  and Secretary of State George Marshall.
  - This president's eponymous "Doctrine" expressed support for anticommunist forces across the world and led to the foundation of NATO.
  - For 10 points, name this US president who recognized the state of Israel in 1948. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Draft Eisenhower [or Eisenhower Boom; accept descriptions of electing Eisenhower or nominating Eisenhower or convincing Eisenhower to run for president; prompt on descriptions of supporting Eisenhower or replacing Truman or defeating Truman] {Pickett's book Eisenhower Decides to Run contends that Eisenhower actively sought the presidency in 1952.}
  - Note to players: description acceptable. [PWR]
  - A book about this movement published in 2000 by William Pickett challenges its traditional historiography using sources such as Edwin Clark's correspondence with James Duff. [PWR]
  - Floyd Odlum and Jacqueline Cochran sponsored a rally attended by over 25,000 supporters of this movement at Madison Square Garden. [PWR]
  - It's not related to golf, but Clifford Roberts created an advisory committee to monitor the status of this movement, which was originally led by James Roosevelt II .
  - While serving as the president of (*) Columbia University, this movement's central figure issued a public memorandum stating his refusal to "identify [himself] with any political party ... or participate in a partisan political contest," though Henry Cabot Lodge Jr. later entered him in the New Hampshire Republican primary.
  - For 10 points, name this movement during the 1948 and 1952 presidential elections that used the slogan "I Like Ike." [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Answer: Truman Capote
  - In one movie, this man portrayed a wealthy estate owner who invites guests to 22 Lola Lane for dinner and a killing. [PWR]
  - This man, who tweaked a William Archibald play while screenwriting The Innocents, made his film acting debut in the comedy Murder by Death. [PWR]
  - Toby Jones portrayed this man in the film (*) Infamous, which debuted the year after Philip Seymour Hoffman won an Oscar for his portrayal of this writer in 2005. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, what author spent time in a Kansas prison researching his book In Cold Blood? [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Persons]
  - The day before his death, this author started writing an essay reminiscing about the time he met a woman in a snowstorm who turned out to be his literary idol, Willa Cather.
  - One of this author's books grew out of a trip he took to the Soviet Union with an opera company that was putting on a touring production of Porgy and Bess.
  - This author of The Muses Are Heard honored the publisher Katharine Graham with a masquerade party held at the Plaza Hotel called the Black and White Ball.
  - This partner of Jack Dunphy compiled 8,000 pages of research for a book that began as a series of New Yorker articles, for which he traveled to Holcomb, Kansas, with his childhood friend Harper Lee.
  - That "nonfiction novel" by this author is about the brutal murder of the Clutter family.
  - For 10 points, name this author of In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany's. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Truman Capote
  - In a novel by this author, the protagonist meets a dwarf named Wisteria, whom his lesbian friend Idabel falls in love with while visiting a carnival. [PWR]
  - Joel Knox travels to Skully's Landing to live with his paralyzed and eyelid-less father at the beginning of another of his works.
  - This man wrote another book in which Dick and Perry's homoerotic relationship culminates in a botched robbery and quadruple murder in (*) Holcomb, Kansas. [PWR]
  - That book is sometimes called the first non-fiction novel and details the life and death of the Clutter Family.
  - A prominent conspiracy theory about this author of Other Voices Other Rooms contends that this man, not Harper Lee, wrote To Kill a Mockingbird.
  - For 10 points, name this American author of In Cold Blood. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harper Lee and Truman Capote [accept Tru and Nelle]
  - NOTE TO PLAYERS: TWO ANSWERS REQUIRED One of these people suggested that the other would lie about driving the car that JFK was in when he was shot. [PWR]
  - After meeting a woman with dwarfism at a carnival, a character based on one of these people is rebuffed by Joel; that character, Idabel Thompkins, features in the other's debut novel, (*) Other Voices, Other Rooms. [PWR]
  - Catherine Keener and Sandra Bullock have starred as one of these people, while Toby Jones and Philip Seymour Hoffman have portrayed the other in films like Infamous.
  - For 10 points, name these two writers who worked together on In Cold Blood and were represented as Scout and Dill in To Kill a Mockingbird. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Harry S. Truman
  - This politician called music critic Paul Hume an "eight ulcer man on four ulcer pay" and threatened to beat the crap out of him after Hume published a negative review of a concert by his daughter. [PWR]
  - This president fired Attorney General J. [PWR]
  - Howard McGrath after McGrath fired a special prosecutor investigating corruption in the Internal Revenue Bureau for being too zealous. [PWR]
  - This president's former business partner, Eddie Jacobson, influenced his decision to recognize the state of (*) Israel.
  - This president criticized the "Do-Nothing" Congress, and he is depicted in a photograph holding up an incorrect headline by the Chicago Tribune, which claimed that Thomas Dewey had defeated him.
  - For 10 points, name this president who authorized dropping the atomic bomb on Japan. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Harry S. Truman
  - This man joked that "a statesman is a politician who's been dead ten or fifteen years," and once hilariously threatened to beat the shit out of Paul Hume for insulting this man's daughter.
  - The second-floor balcony overlooking the South Lawn of the White House is named for this politician. [PWR]
  - While staying at Blair House, this man was the subject of an assassination attempt by two (*) Puerto Rican nationalists. [PWR]
  - Congress overrode this President's veto of legislation such as the McCarran Internal Security Act and the Taft-Hartley Act.
  - Because of their printing time, the Chicago Daily Tribune incorrectly called the election of 1948 for Thomas Dewey instead of this man.
  - For 10 points, name this failed haberdasher who became President following the death of Franklin Roosevelt. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: attempted assassination of Harry S. Truman (accept equivalents indicating attempted killing, shooting, etc. of Truman)
  - The target of this event said its perpetrators were "as stupid as they could be" and that he could have "organize[d] a better program than the one they put on". [PWR]
  - This action's perpetrators were inspired by the failed revolts of Pedro Albizu Campos, who was arrested after a shootout in reaction to this event.
  - One participant in this event was shot in the head by Leslie Coffelt, and another was shot in the chest and later had his death sentence commuted. [PWR]
  - This action took place on November 1, (*) 1950 outside Blair House and was perpetrated by Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola to bring attention to the Puerto Rican nationalist movement. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this event which threatened the life of the 33rd President. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Harry S. Truman
  - In the 1940 election, this politician was supported by Robert Hannegan after former Governor Lloyd Stark challenged him for his seat in the primaries. [PWR]
  - This president's positive attitude towards Israel was influenced by his former business partner, Eddie Jacobson.
  - Congress overrode this president's veto on legislation that established the Subversive Activities Control Board.
  - This politician, who vetoed the (*) McCarran Act, was known as the "Senator from Pendergast" while in Congress.
  - A Chicago Tribune headline incorrectly claimed that this president was defeated by Thomas Dewey in 1948.
  - For 10 points, name this president who authorized the use of the atomic bomb on Japan. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: President Harry S. Truman's seizure of the steel mills [accept clear equivalents; accept the issuing of Executive Order 10340 before it is read]
  - The Supreme Court case regarding this action featured a tripartite framework for resolving disputes concerning overlapping powers between Congress and the President in the concurrence of Justice Jackson.
  - The plaintiffs in that case were represented by the Democratic candidate for President in 1924, John W.
  - Davis.
  - This action was precipitated by a refusal to follow the Wage Stabilization Board's wage increase recommendation.
  - The President who performed this action could have instead used the eighty day "cooling-off period." For 10 points, identify this action performed by President Truman that was ruled unconstitutional by Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. v. [GIVE]
  - Sawyer.

[T14] 2014 Chicago Open History Doubles (2014) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: The 1952 steel strike [accept anything to indicate steel and labor dispute, including U.S. Steel strike and steel strike during the Truman presidency, prompt on Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer before mentioned]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - Retired Admiral Ben Moreell claimed this event was unnecessary because certain companies were on the verge of bankruptcy. [PWR]
  - A non Secretary of Defense named Charles Wilson resigned during this event after criticizing the Wage Stabilization Board's recommendations. [PWR]
  - The New York Daily News said the President did "a Hitler" in response to it, and that response to this event ended in a "stinging rebuff" to the President when John W. [PWR]
  - (*) Davis' arguments were accepted by a Hugo Black led majority.
  - It ended shortly after the U.S.
  - Army was forced to shut down its largest shell-making plant, a serious blow to the Korean War effort.
  - The President's attempt to foil this event by nationalizing an industry was ended by the Supreme Court's decision in Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v.
  - Sawyer.
  - For 10 points, name this major 1952 labor dispute in a metalworking industry during the Truman administration. [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]
  - This man wrote a short story in which Mrs.
  - Munson reluctantly buys a mink coat from Vini Rondo, only for it to rip when she puts it in the closet.
  - This author of "A Mink of One's Own" first gained prominence for a story in which the widow Mrs.
  - Miller is terrorized by a young girl with the same first name as her.
  - That story, "Miriam," allowed him to get a contract to write his first novel, which is about an effete boy named Joel Harrison Knox.
  - A mysterious woman created by this author goes to Sing Sing ostensibly to get the weather report for the gangster Sally Tomato.
  - This author of Other Voices, Other Rooms wrote a non-fiction novel based on the murder of the Clutter family, and created Holly Golightly.
  - For 10 points, name this author of In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany's. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Harry S. Truman
  - This president fired J. [PWR]
  - Howard McGrath as attorney general when McGrath fired a special prosecutor who was investigating corruption in this president's administration. [PWR]
  - The Former Presidents Act was primarily passed to benefit this politician, who was the target of an assassination attempt made at Blair House. [PWR]
  - This president was first elected with the help of the (*) Pendergast machine. [PWR]
  - He led a namesake Senate committee that exposed fraud and waste in military contracts awarded during the Second World War.
  - He denounced his successor for failing to denounce McCarthy and he endorsed Adlai E.
  - Stevenson to succeed him.
  - For 10 points, name this president who surprisingly defeated Dewey in the 1948 presidential election and chose not to contest the 1952 presidential election won by Eisenhower. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Alice Allison Dunnigan, the first Black woman to receive White House press credentials, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Chicago Defender [prompt on The Defender]):
    Dunnigan was paid less than her male colleagues at this newspaper founded by Robert S. Abbott, which prominently reported on the success stories of the Great Migration.
  Part 2 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    Dunnigan became the first African-American female White House correspondent while accompanying this president's campaign. The Chicago Daily Tribune erroneously claimed that Thomas Dewey defeated this president.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Alphonso Taft, Sr. [prompt on Taft]):
    Despite her credentials, Dunnigan was barred from covering the funeral of this politician, who was suppressed by the "Fair Play" proposal at the 1952 RNC and was nicknamed "Mr. Republican."

[B2] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: A quote from this person about how "More than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching misery" opens David Edmonds' book Death in a Shallow Pond. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    Name this person who titles an essay that contends "Choosing to kill the innocent as a means to your ends is always murder." That essay about this person objects to him receiving an honorary degree.
  Part 2 (ans: G. E. M. Anscombe [or Gertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe or Gertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe]):
    "Mr. Truman's Degree" was written by this philosopher and student of Wittgenstein, who coined the term consequentialism in the essay "Modern Moral Philosophy."
  Part 3 (ans: population size [accept population ethics; accept number of people or number of humans]):
    Edmonds traces the emergence of practical ethics at Oxford by focusing on Glover, Griffin, and Parfit's interest in this quantity. Parfit's "repugnant conclusion" imagines a group very high in this quantity but with a very low average utility.

[B3] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A group of half-alligator women goes to community college in one of the underground 1980s plays that this author described as his "Theater of the Obvious." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gary Indiana [or Gary Hoisington]):
    Name this writer and critic with a state-based pseudonym, whose Village Voice art columns are collected in Vile Days. Semiotext(e) has republished a true crime trilogy by this author that includes Three-Month Fever.
  Part 2 (ans: Roy Cohn [accept Roy Cohn/Jack Smith; prompt on Roy] (The latter play is Angels in America.)):
    A 1992 Indiana play paired performance artist Jack Smith with this character. In a later play, this character is introduced standing over a complex telephone set and wishing that he were an octopus.
  Part 3 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote] (The novel is In Cold Blood.)):
    Writer Max Blagg remembered Gary Indiana by posting photos of him playing this writer in a giant frog costume. This "tiny terror" wrote a true crime novel about the Clutter family murders.

[B4] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer first developed many of the pieces in his collection Music for Chameleons as part of a series in Interview magazine titled for "Conversations with" him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    Name this writer, who fictionalized many of his "swan" friends in the collection Answered Prayers, inspiring the FX TV series Feud. This writer was sued by Gore Vidal for slander, beginning a long feud.
  Part 2 (ans: Gordon Lish):
    This writer's novel Dear Mr. Capote takes the form of a long letter from a serial killer to Truman Capote. He published his own short story "For Rupert - with no promises" while serving as the editor of Esquire.
  Part 3 (ans: Harper Lee [or Nelle Harper Lee]):
    This author likely inspired Capote's character of Idabel Tompkins in Other Voices, Other Rooms. This author fictionalized her childhood friend Capote as Scout's friend Dill.

[B5] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: A short story by this writer is referenced in Quentin Tarantino's segment of the anthology film Four Rooms, in which a man bets his pinky finger against a cigarette lighter lighting ten times in a row. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roald Dahl (The 2024 film is The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Three More.)):
    Name this author who adapted the James Bond novel You Only Live Twice to the big screen. Benedict Cumberbatch played the title character of a 2024 anthology film adapting short stories by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons] (The film is Capote.)):
    This author adapted The Turn of the Screw in eight weeks into the horror film The Innocents. This author, who acted in Neil Simon's Murder by Death, was inaccurately portrayed bribing a warden in a 2005 biopic.
  Part 3 (ans: The Princess Bride (Goldman won screenwriting Oscars for Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and All The Presidents' Men.)):
    After winning two screenwriting Oscars, William Goldman adapted this novel of his to film. In this novel, Buttercup is rescued by the Dread Pirate Roberts.

[B6] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's prompt to write about a secret that "dismantles your own sense of yourself" inspired Amy Hempel's short story "In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson is Buried." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gordon Lish):
    Name this author whose workshop Hempel described in her piece "Captain Fiction." This editor of Esquire heavily edited a story by Raymond Carver originally titled "Beginners."
  Part 2 (ans: "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"):
    Carver told Lish, "I've got to pull out of this one" while asking him about revisions to a collection titled for this story. In this Raymond Carver story, Terri and Mel discuss the title concept with Nick and Laura.
  Part 3 (ans: Truman Capote [accept Dear Mr. Capote]):
    Lish encouraged this author to publish the first two installments of his novel Answered Prayers. Lish wrote a novel from the perspective of a serial killer sending letters to this author of In Cold Blood.

[B7] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Psychologist Carl Stumpf determined that this animal could give the correct answer to questions, only when the questioner himself knew the correct answer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clever Hans ):
    Name this horse, who could allegedly add, subtract, multiply, and divide by tapping his hoof, but was in fact responding to the body language of his trainer Wilhelm von Osten.
  Part 2 (ans: Harry S. Truman ):
    Another supposedly-intelligent horse, Lady Wonder, allegedly used ESP to predict every presidential election - except that she, like the Daily Tribune, predicted that Dewey would defeat this man.
  Part 3 (ans: 1904 St. Louis World's Fair [or the Louisiana Purchase Exposition]):
    At this event, Dr. William Key displayed the horse "Beautiful Jim Key" who could do math and cite Bible passages, but only "where the horse is mentioned." This event was co-hosted with the first Olympics held in the U.S.

[B8] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This article was formally titled "The Sources of Soviet Conduct" and shared widely by Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Long Telegram):
    Name this article published under the pseudonym "X" in an issue of Foreign Affairs.
  Part 2 (ans: George Kennan [or George Frost Kennan]):
    The Long Telegram was written by this Ambassador to the Soviet Union who was Director of Policy Planning until he resigned due to disagreements over the potential use of military force for containment.
  Part 3 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    The namesake "Doctrine" of this US president which was laid out in a 1947 speech to Congress is often considered to be the declaration of the Cold War.

[B9] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's novel Paradais is set in a gated community in Veracruz, where the incel Franco lives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernanda Melchor):
    Name this Mexican author who wrote about the murder of a woman known as the Witch of La Matosa in the novel Hurricane Season.
  Part 2 (ans: In Cold Blood (by Truman Capote)):
    A journalist by training, Melchor originally conceived Hurricane Season as an investigative nonfiction novel similar to this book about the murders of the Clutter family.
  Part 3 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic or Republica Argentina] (The book is A Universal History of Infamy by Borges.)):
    Before In Cold Blood, an author from this country depicted extrajudicial murders in the nonfiction novel Operation Massacre. Outlaws like "The Disinterested Killer Bill Harrigan" and "The Widow Ching - Pirate" appear in another book from this country.

[B10] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Edward Demenchonok claimed that this man's statements indicated that the "imaginary was triumphant and technocratic" in an introduction titled "From Power Politics to the Ethics of Peace." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S. Truman [accept "Mr. Truman's Degree"] ("Mr. Truman's Degree" was written by G. E. M. Anscombe)):
    Name this man who was called "murderous" in a speech opposing this man's reception of an honorary degree by the Oxford Encaenia.
  Part 2 (ans: utilitarianism):
    Justifications for Truman's decision to drop the atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki often use the felicific calculus, part of this ethical theory developed by Jeremy Bentham that supports the "greatest happiness" principle.
  Part 3 (ans: trolley problem):
    Japanese philosopher Masahiro Morioka used the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki to criticize the "rarity" and "safety zone" of this thought experiment. Judith Thompson updated this thought experiment by imagining a fat man on a shaky railing.

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A John Quidor painting depicts a man fleeing through this town, where a grey-headed Black musician "had been the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sleepy Hollow [accept "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"]):
    Name this farming town near the Tappan Zee and a swampy haunted brook. At a Dutch family's mansion in this town, a music teacher dances with his pupil, but she marries a jerk who rides the steed Daredevil after he disappears.
  Part 2 (ans: headless [or decapitated or a severed head or equivalents; accept the headless horseman; prompt on dead]):
    "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" drew on European legends of Dullahan and the Wild Hunt to depict a Hessian ("HESH-in") with this trait. Being hit by a cannonball during a "nameless battle" gave this trait to the story's ghostly horseman.
  Part 3 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    Vincent buys a painting of a headless girl carrying a headless hawk's cage in a story from this author's horror collection A Tree of Night. This author wrote about making fruitcakes in his nostalgic story "A Christmas Memory."

[B12] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The U.S. government sentenced Nationalist Party leader Pedro Albizu Campos to eighty years in prison after an attempt on this president's life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S Truman):
    Name this president whom Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola attempted to assassinate while he stayed in the Blair House.
  Part 2 (ans: Puerto Rico [prompt on PR]):
    Albizu Campos led the independence movement on this island, where Truman named Jesus T. Pinero as its first native governor. The Jones Act granted U.S. citizenship to the residents of this Caribbean territory.
  Part 3 (ans: Luis Munoz Marin):
    Nationalists attacked this first elected governor of Puerto Rico on the same day as the Jayuya and Utuado uprisings in 1950. This governor applied the repressive Gag Law to arrest thousands during his sixteen-year tenure.

[B13] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Answer the following about polling mishaps in US elections, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    In one such mishap, Gallup only sampled households with a landline phone and thus underestimated this President, who defeated Thomas Dewey to win re-election in 1948.
  Part 2 (ans: having a college education [or equivalents such as tertiary education or university education or having a bachelor's degree; prompt on educated or schooling]):
    In 2016, most polls underestimated Donald Trump's performance in the Midwest by oversampling white voters with this trait, who were more likely to both respond to polls and vote Democratic. A description is fine.
  Part 3 (ans: social desirability bias [prompt on desirability bias]):
    Polled voters may have been loath to admit to strangers that they were voting for Trump, which would exemplify this kind of response bias in which one gives answers based on perceived approval by others. Supposed examples of this bias include the Bradley effect and the "Shy Tory" effect in Britain.

[B14] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Melanie Benjamin's The Swans of Fifth Avenue depicts this author's New York social life, including hosting the Black and White Masquerade ball and a prominent rift with a fan, "Babe" Paley. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Truman Capote):
    Name this author who wrote a novel depicting a similar milieu in which the protagonist goes to Sing Sing prison each week to visit the racketeer Sally Tomato.
  Part 2 (ans: Breakfast at Tiffany's):
    This Truman Capote novella centers on Holly Golightly, a country girl who moves to New York and becomes part of the social scene.
  Part 3 (ans: photos [or photographs; prompt on pictures or images]):
    In an early scene in the novel, the bartender Joe Bell shows Holly some of these objects created by the Japanese man Yunioshi. Later in the novel, Yunioshi works with Holly's roommate Meg to create several of these objects.

[B15] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The Los Angeles Times claimed a photo of this man made him look "as if he were dreamily contemplating some outrage against conventional morality." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Truman Capote [Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Parsons]):
    Name this author, who was photographed intensely gazing into the camera while reclining for the dust jacket of a 1948 novel. That book by this man takes place at the mansion Skully's Landing.
  Part 2 (ans: Dill Harris [or Charles Baker Harris; or Harris]):
    Twelve years after the publication of Other Voices, Other Rooms, a younger version of Capote was fictionalized as this character in the 1960 novel To Kill a Mockingbird. This character is a boy who visits Macomb (MAKE-um) every summer and befriends Scout.
  Part 3 (ans: Harper Lee [or Nelle Harper Lee]):
    Until the controversial 2015 publication of Go Set a Watchman, To Kill a Mockingbird was the only published novel by this author, a longtime friend of Capote.

[B16] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A controversial one of these images produced by Harold Halma appeared on the back cover of Other Voices, Other Rooms . For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: photographs of Truman Capote [prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this images, one of which produced by Carl van Vechten shows its central subject with his head resting on a bed of toys.
  Part 2 (ans: Answered Prayers):
    Capote's success in launching the Black and White Ball stands in stark contrast to the in enmity that he received for publishing four chapters from this unfinished novel in Esquire 1975. It is a thinly veiled expose of the debauchery of the New York social elite.

[B17] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this novel visits Sally Tomato at Sing Sing prison every week and becomes embroiled in his drug ring. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Breakfast at Tiffany's):
    Name this novella about the socialite Holly Golightly, who lives under the apartment of her neighbor, the narrator.
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Capote):
    Breakfast at Tiffany's was penned by this childhood friend of Harper Lee, who detailed the murder of the Clutter family in his nonfiction novel In Cold Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    In the book, Holly decides to leave for this country after learning that her lover Jose has abandoned her to go back to this home country of his. Angel Clare moves to this country after learning of Tess's "impurity" in Tess of the D'Urbervilles.

[B18] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This man was the first and only Director of the Foreign Operations Administration. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harold Stassen):
    Name this governor of Minnesota from 1939 to 1943 and nine-time Republican hopeful who never won his party's nomination. The first-ever debate to be radio broadcast featured this man arguing that the Communist Party should be outlawed in the United States, to which he received the response "you can't shoot an idea with a gun."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Dewey [accept "Dewey Defeats Truman" headline]):
    Stassen's opponent in that debate was this eventual Republican nominee in the Election of 1948. The Chicago Daily Tribune infamously printed a premature headline declaring that this man defeated actual election winner Harry Truman.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur H. Vandenberg [accept Vandenberg Resolution]):
    Another of Dewey's chief opponents for the Republican nomination was this Michigan senator, who at the time was president pro tempore of the Senate. His namesake resolution opened talks that led to the formation of NATO.

[B19] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The events of this novel are set in motion after Floyd Wells gives away the secrets of his former employer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: In Cold Blood):
    This crime novel relates the killing of a Kansas farming family at the hands of Dick Hickock and Perry Smith, inspired by real events of 1959.
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Capote [accept Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    This author of the "first non-fiction novel" In Cold Blood and short story collections such as A Tree of Night created the character of Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's.
  Part 3 (ans: Other Voices, Other Rooms):
    Capote's friendship with Harper Lee led her to base the character of Dill from To Kill a Mockingbird on him, and him to base the character of Idabel from this work on her.

[B20] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil falls into the genre of "faction," a portmanteau of fact and fiction. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: In Cold Blood [by Truman Capote]):
    This "faction" book tells of a brutal murder committed by Dick Hickock and Perry Smith, who are convicted and hung in the Kansas State Penitentiary.
  Part 2 (ans: Armies of the Night [by Norman Mailer] [Note: "Imdlawn Tashlhiyt" is pronounced along the lines of "i-mud-LA-win ta-shul-HI-yut, but English literally cannot conceive of the exact pronunciation]):
    The main character participates in an anti-Vietnam march on the Pentagon in this book by a different writer. Its two sections are titled "History as a Novel" and "The Novel as History."

[B21] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The last of these events involved one party calling the other a "Crypto-Nazi," drawing the response "Now stop calling me a Crypto-Nazi or I'll punch you in the face you goddamn queer, and you'll stay plastered." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: debates between Gore Vidal and William F. Buckley, Jr.):
    Name these lively exchanges between the editor of National Review and the author of Myra Breckinridge that took place on ABC in the lead-up the 1968 Democratic and Republican National Conventions.
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Garcia Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    Of this other author, Vidal once stated "I truly loathed [him]. The way you might loathe an animal. A filthy animal that has found its way into the house." This author wrote the nonfiction novel In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany's.
  Part 3 (ans: Firing Line):
    After the debates, Buckley continued to helm this PBS program on which he held additional debates with intellectuals like Noam Chomsky and John Kenneth Galbraith. Its theme music was the Brandenburg Concerto No. 2 in F Major.

[B22] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The British Daily Telegraph called this man the "living and kicking symbol of everything that everybody likes best about the United States." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S Truman):
    This president's namesakes include the mascot of the University of Missouri and a doctrine opposing the spread of communism in Europe.
  Part 2 (ans: Alben Barkley):
    Truman's VP was this Kentucky lawyer who, while in Congress, pushed for infrastructure improvements throughout the midwest. He was nicknamed "Iron Man" for giving 16 speeches in one day while campaigning.
  Part 3 (ans: 1936):
    In his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention of this year, Barkley asked "Is the Court beyond criticism?" Earlier, the ticket of Franklin Roosevelt and John Garner had been nominated for the 2nd time.

[B23] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The word "traveling" is inscribed on business cards bought from this place, because the owner of the cards doesn't ever know where she'll be. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tiffany's [or Tiffany and Company]):
    Name this location in New York which is visited by a woman whenever she has the "mean reds" because "nothing very bad could happen to you" at this place.
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    This writer, Harper Lee's childhood friend, wrote Breakfast at Tiffany's and the nonfiction novel In Cold Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: the Clutter family):
    In Cold Blood centers on the quadruple murder of this Kansas family.

[B24] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This body was lambasted in a speech in San Diego, whose speaker noted that he was told that they needed "water and pitchers for the Padres." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Do-Nothing" Congress [or the 80th United States Congress]):
    Name this Congress that passed the Taft-Hartley act. This Congress was lambasted as "lazy" by the president it served under during the election of 1948.
  Part 2 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    This president dealt with the "Do-Nothing" Congress while campaigning in 1948 against Thomas Dewey. He also ordered the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
  Part 3 (ans: recognizing the State of Israel [or recognizing Medinat Yisrael; or answers that include words forms for recognizing, such as recognition; prompt on just recognizing or other word forms, such as recognition; do not prompt on just Israel]):
    Truman was convinced to undertake this action by his former business partner Eddie Jacobson, shortly after Truman initially refused to meet with Chaim Weizmann.

[B25] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel hears an Oscar Wilde quote about sin and decides to base her life on it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bonjour Tristesse [or Hello Sadness]):
    Name this 1954 novel in which Cecile tries to stop Anne from marrying her father Raymond, accidentally driving Anne to suicide following the return of Raymond's prior mistress Els?a.
  Part 2 (ans: Francoise Sagan):
    This author of That Mad Ache and Goodbye Again wrote Bonjour Tristesse at age eighteen.
  Part 3 (ans: Truman Capote):
    While travelling in the U.S., Sagan often took road trips with this writer, who created Joel Knox in Other Voices, Other Rooms.

[B26] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This author made headlines with the depiction of transsexuality in his novel Myra Breckinridge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gore Vidal [or Eugene Louis Vidal]):
    Name this American author who wrote historical novels based on the lives of Aaron Burr and Julian the Apostate.
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    Vidal claimed to have gone to a party where he accidentally sat down on an ottoman that turned out to be this author. This author wrote Breakfast at Tiffany's and the "true crime" novel In Cold Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: Tom Wolfe [or Thomas Kennerly Wolfe, Jr.]):
    This writer coined the term "pornoviolence" in an essay criticizing the sensationalism of In Cold Blood. He profiled NASCAR racer Junior Johnson in his essay about the rise of stock car racing, "The Last American Hero".

[B27] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist kills two men during robberies after his romantic relationship with Nicole Baker ends. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Executioner's Song ):
    Name this non-fiction novel by Norman Mailer about Gary Gilmore, who demands to be shot by firing squad.
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    The genre of non-fiction novel was popularized by this author's account of the murder of the Clutter family in his In Cold Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil):
    John Berendt captured the colorful residents of Savannah, Georgia in this non-fiction novel that focuses on Jim Williams' murder of male prostitute Danny Hanford.

[B28] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This character allows Willie-Jay to give him an interpretation of his sister Barbara's condescending letter, and he keeps a dictionary of obscure words he can never use, such as "thanatoid." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Perry Smith [or Perry Smith]):
    Name this character who has a recurring dream about a yellow bird that saves him from being eaten by a snake. He quickly runs out of money afer moving to Mexico City in hopes of fnding sunken treasure in a section titled "Persons Unknown."
  Part 2 (ans: Truman Capote):
    This author fctionalized Perry Smith's murder of the Clutter family in his nonfction novel In Cold Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: Other Voices, Other Rooms):
    In this frst novel by Truman Capote, Randolph brings his cousin Joel Knox to Scully's Landing to try and initiate the boy into a homosexual relationship.

[B29] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One part of this work describes being frisked before being allowed to enter Eldridge Cleaver's apartment. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: "The White Album"):
    Name this Joan Didion essay in which she discusses Linda Kasabian's trial after the murder of Sharon Tate and visits a practice for The Doors. It begins with the line, "we tell ourselves stories in order to live."
  Part 2 (ans: New Journalism):
    Joan Didion is often grouped into this school writing, which blended literature and news writing and used unconventional techniques drawn from the world of literary fiction. Its name was coined by Tom Wolfe.
  Part 3 (ans: Truman Capote):
    Another New Journalist is this man, who wrote about the Clutter family murders in his In Cold Blood and wrote about Holly Golightly in his novel Breakfast at Tiffany's.

[B30] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This essay claims that "to talk with horror of killing rather than of murder" is "the work of the devil" and blames pacifism for muddying the distinction between killing the innocent as a means to an end and legitimate conduct of warfare. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mr. Truman's Degree"):
    Identify this essay on the atomic bombings of Japan, written in protest of an honorary bachelor's awarded by Oxford University in 1956.
  Part 2 (ans: Gertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe):
    This author of Intention, who coined the term "consequentialism" in "Modern Moral Philosophy," wrote "Mr. Truman's Degree." This philosopher also distinguished "brute" from "institutional" facts and wrote in "The First Person" that the word "I" does not refer to anything.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludwig Wittgenstein):
    Anscombe was the principal translator and annotator of this other philosopher, and provided an introduction to his Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.

[B31] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the 80th, or the "Do-Nothing," Congress, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    The Congress got its nickname for being notoriously uncooperative with this president, who desegregated the armed forces and succeeded FDR.
  Part 2 (ans: Twenty-Second Amendment to the United States Constitution):
    The Congress did manage to pass this amendment, which set a term limit for the presidency.
  Part 3 (ans: Turnip Day Session):
    Faced with a low approval rating, Truman called this special session of the Congress, challenging them to live up to their promise to pass much-needed legislation. It's named for the 25th of July in Missouri, on which you sow a certain vegetable, "wet or dry."

[B32] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: He prosecuted the bootlegger Waxey Gordon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Dewey):
    Name this man who, with his running mate John Bricker, lost the election of 1944.
  Part 2 (ans: Harry Truman):
    In 1948, the Chicago Tribune newspaper proclaimed that Dewey defeated this Missouri politician.
  Part 3 (ans: Dutch Schultz [or Arthur Flegenheimer]):
    This Bronx bootlegger was killed by fellow mobsters after calling for the death of Thomas Dewey. This German converted to Catholicism to placate Lucky Luciano.

[B33] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about novels with strong homosexual themes, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    This author wrote about the teenager Joel Knox, who comes to live at a mansion owned by the homosexual cross-dresser Randolph. Besides Other Voices, Other Rooms, he wrote the novella Breakfast at Tiffany's and the crime novel In Cold Blood.
  Part 2 (ans: Carson McCullers [or Lula Carson Smith]):
    This female author wrote about the homosexual Captain Weldon Penderton, who becomes attracted to Private Williams, in her work Reflections in a Golden Eye. She also wrote about a deaf man named John Singer in another novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Nightwood):
    In this controversial 1936 Djuna Barnes novel, Robin Vote marries Baron Felix Volkbein, but then ends up having relationships with Nora Flood and Jenny Petherbridge. It is considered one of the first explicit depictions of homosexuality in American prose.

[B34] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about notorious newspaper headlines in American history, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    In 1948, after winning an upset election, this incumbent president was photographed cheerfully holding a Chicago Tribune edition that claimed he had lost the election to Thomas Dewey.
  Part 2 (ans: Variety):
    In 1929, this periodical ran the headline "Wall St. Lays an Egg" in response to the stock market crash on Black Monday. A more typical headline for this entertainment focused magazine was "Sticks Nix Hick Pix," a reference to how rural audiences rejected rural set films.
  Part 3 (ans: Jimmy Carter [or James Earl Carter, Jr.]):
    The Boston Globe once accidentally ran the editorial headline "More Mush from the Wimp," referring to a speech by this man. Another unsuccessful speech by this man, the "crisis of confidence," or "malaise," speech, urged Americans to carpool and obey the speed limit.

[B35] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This president vetoed an immigration bill because it had racial quotas, but his veto was overridden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harry S. Truman):
    Identify this president who frequently struggled with the Eightieth or "Do Nothing" Congress. One of his actions was the subject of the Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. case.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Alphonso Taft):
    Congress overrode Harry Truman's veto of the Labor-Management Relations Act, co-sponsored by Fred Hartley and this Ohio senator.
  Part 3 (ans: Patrick Anthony McCarran):
    This Nevada senator sponsored the 1952 Immigration Act and the Internal Security Act, both of which were passed over Truman's veto. He was noted for his anticommunism.
