=== STOCK CLUES: Rainer Werner Fassbinder ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Reel Knowledge (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rainer Werner Fassbinder [The first two clues are The American Soldier and The Bitter Tears of Petra von Kant]
  - A film by this director ends with two men writhing on the ground over a song he co-wrote titled "Too Much Tenderness". [PWR]
  - The lesbian relationship in the fictional play Maloja Snake in Oliver Assayas' film Clouds of Sils Maria is inspired by a film by this director, which is mostly set in a bedroom dominated by a reproduction of Pousin's Midas and Bacchus. [PWR]
  - After a woman enters a bar in the background behind a row of tables, this director's camera pushes in on the (*) title character at the counter with a friend as they stare down at her. [PWR]
  - This director's melodramatic period began with a film about fruit peddler called The Merchant of Four Seasons.
  - A "film in 13 parts and an epilogue" first seen as a TV series by this director begins in 1928 when Franz is released from jail after killing his wife, while in another of his films an elderly woman falling in love with the title Morrocan migrant worker.
  - For 10 points, identify this bisexual German director who had already made 40 films by the time he died at age 37, including Berlin Alexanderplatz, and Ali: Fear Eats the Soul. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rainer Werner Fassbinder
  - At the opening of one of this director's films, the title character tells the old woman he's dancing with, "Think much, cry much." In a film by this direction, the phrase "the world as will and idea" is used to activate a terrorist cell secretly funded by an industrialist who hopes their activities will increase demand for his security systems.
  - The title character leaves his lover for the bartender Barbara after Emmi tells him she will not cook couscous for him any longer in a film by this man that ends with the title character in the hospital with a (*) stomach ulcer. [PWR]
  - The Blue Angel inspired this director's film about the corruption of the building commissioner von Bohm by the title prostitute, Lola; that film is included with another movie by this man that ends with a gas explosion in his BRD Trilogy.
  - This director of The Third Generation and Ali: Fear Eats the Soul also adapted and directed a 15-hour long miniseries based on Alfred Doblin's Berlin Alexanderplatz.
  - For 10 points, name this West German director of The Marriage of Maria Braun. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a film by this director, a cabaret singer newly returned from Auschwitz heals from facial reconstruction surgery in a bed next to a framed print of Paul Klee's Angelus Novus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christian Petzold):
    Name this contemporary German director of Phoenix, who compared cinema to the Angel of History after the release of Transit. He frequently works with Nina Hoss, casting her in Afire and Barbara.
  Part 2 (ans: bicycle [accept Bicycle Thieves]):
    An oft-reproduced shot from Barbara, which Petzold modeled on the Angelus Novus, sees Hoss looking backwards as she is on one of these vehicles. Vittorio De Sica made a film titled for thieves of these vehicles.
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Werner Fassbinder):
    Rubble-filled scenes are among the influences of this director's The Marriage of Maria Braun on Phoenix. This German director made the films The Bitter Tears of Petra von Kant and Ali: Fear Eats the Soul.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A large depiction of Poussin's Midas and Bacchus is prominently featured in a film by this director that follows the relationship between Karin and the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Werner Fassbinder):
    The silent assistant Marlene packs up her suitcase and leaves at the end of this director's film The Bitter Tears of Petra Van Kant. This director also directed Ali: Fear Eats the Soul.
  Part 2 (ans: fashion model [accept supermodel]):
    In that film, Petra lures Karin in by offering to teach her this occupation. Gisele Bundchen ("BOOND-chen") agreed to cameo in The Devil Wears Prada under the condition that she did not portray a character of this real-life occupation of hers.
  Part 3 (ans: Oberhausen Manifesto):
    Fassbinder was a signatory of this declaration, associated with the phrase "Papa's cinema is dead." This declaration signed in a title city has been seen as a catalyst for the rise of the New German Cinema in the 1960s.

[B3] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Leontine Sagan directed a hit 1931 film from this country that uses an all-female cast to tell the story of a girl falling in love with her female teacher. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Germany [or Deutschland] (The 1931 film is Madchen in Uniform. The sexologist is Magnus Hirschfeld. The director is Rainer Werner Fassbinder, and the actress is Marlene Dietrich.)):
    Name this country whose premier sexologist co-wrote the 1919 gay romance Different From the Others. The bisexual director of Ali: Fear Eats the Soul and the androgynous star of The Blue Angel were from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Conrad Veidt ("fight") [or Hans Walter Conrad Veidt] (Cesare appears in The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari.)):
    Different From the Others stars this actor, whose lead role in 1928's The Man Who Laughs inspired the look of the Joker. A close-up on this actor in heavy eyeshadow as the somnambulist Cesare ("CHEZ-ah-ray") is a defining image of German expressionism.
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Theodor Dreyer [or Carl Th. Dreyer]):
    This non-German director's 1924 German film Michael follows an artist's romances with his male model and a countess. This director allegorized Nazi occupation to a 17th-century witch hunt in the film Day of Wrath.

[B4] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one scene from this film, Ron Howard's character bickers with his girlfriend while everyone else watches them dance to the song "Smoke Gets In Your Eyes" by The Platters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: American Graffiti):
    Name this nostalgic 1973 film in which Curt seeks Wolfman Jack's help in finding a woman in a white T-bird. It is the magnum opus of George Lucas.
  Part 2 (ans: 45 Years):
    Another pair of characters dance tensely to "Smoke Gets In Your Eyes" in the final scene of this 2015 film by Andrew Haigh. In this film, Charlotte Rampling's character worries that her husband is still in love with a former girlfriend whose body was recovered from a glacier.
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Werner Fassbinder):
    Marlene and Petra dance disconsolately to "Smoke Gets In Your Eyes" in The Bitter Tears of Petra Von Kant, a film by this director who also made The Marriage of Maria Braun.

[B5] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director followed the troubled relationship of Chris and Gitti as they vacation in Sardinia in her 2009 film Everyone Else. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maren Ade ("AH-duh")):
    Name this contemporary German director who explored the relationship between a workaholic woman and her prank-loving father in her 2016 critical darling Toni Erdmann.
  Part 2 (ans: Romania):
    Toni Erdmann takes place in Germany and this Eastern European country. Directors from this country include Christian Mungiu, whose abortion drama 4 Months, 3 Weeks, and 2 Days is set during the presidency of Nicolae Ceausescu ("chow-SHESS-koo").
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Werner Fassbinder ("FOSS-bin-der") [accept Michael Fassbender]):
    Another German director who focused on the complexities of family life was this director of Ali: Fear Eats the Soul and The Marriage of Maria Braun. He almost shares his name with an actor who played a sex addict in Steve McQueen's film Shame.

[B6] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film features a scene in which a crying couple sits in an outdoor cafe littered with yellow tables and chairs as the staff stare at them in an alienating manner from several feet away. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ali: Fear Eats the Soul [or Angst essen Seele auf; prompt on Ali]):
    Name this film that references the melodramas of Douglas Sirk with a scene in which a man kicks a television during a family gathering in an elderly woman's apartment.
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Werner Fassbinder):
    Ali: Fear Eats the Soul was directed by this man, who also starred in the film as Emmi's bitter son-in-law Eugen ("OY-gun"). He directed a TV adaptation of Alfred Doblin's novel Berlin Alexanderplatz that lasts over 13 hours.
  Part 3 (ans: Werner Herzog):
    Another member of New German Cinema was this director, who chronicled the descent into madness of a Spanish expedition led by his frequent collaborator Klaus Kinski in Aguirre: the Wrath of God. He directed the documentary Grizzly Man.

[B7] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title character of this flm is impregnated by the African-American soldier Bill, but kills him as he brawls with her hus-band. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Marriage of Maria Braun [or Die Ehe der Maria Braun]):
    Name this West German flm about a woman who becomes the mistress of the industrialist Karl Oswald, while her hus-band Hermann serves time for Bill's murder. It is the frst flm of a trilogy together with the same director's Lola and Veronika Voss.
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Werner Fassbinder):
    The Marriage of Maria Braun was directed by this major fgure in the New German Cinema movement who created the celebrated TV series Berlin Alexanderplatz. The cleaning woman Emmi has an afair with the Moroccan guest worker Ali in his Fear Eats the Soul.
  Part 3 (ans: Werner Herzog Stipetic):
    Another major fgure in New German Cinema is this director, who depicted the title conquistador's search for El Dorado in Aguirre, the Wrath of God and made a documentary about bear enthusiast Timothy Treadwell called Grizzly Man.
