=== STOCK CLUES: Amphitryon ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Answer: Amphitryon [or Amphitruo]
  - The French proverb that the real form of this figure "is the one who gives you dinner" and the French term "Sosie" meaning a look-alike both come from a Moliere play about this figure.
  - He was assisted in one task by a woman who had the ability to catch everything that she pursued.
  - He lost a kingship after throwing a club at a herd of cattle.
  - With the help of Procris and Cephalus he resolved a problem with a fox that was hounding Thebes.
  - He bested one foe by having that foe's daughter pluck out her father's golden hair, rendering him no longer immortal.
  - This man was appointed king so that his uncle could avenge the death of his sons at the hands of the Teleboans, but accidentally murdered Electryon.
  - He was the father of Iphicles, the younger of the two sons of his wife Alcmena.
  - For 10 points, name this stepfather of Heracles. [GIVE]

[T2] 2012 ANFORTAS (2012) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Answer: Amphitryon
  - This man killed Comaitho after she plucked the golden hair that kept her father Pterelaos invincible during his war against Taphios. [PWR]
  - Sthenelos banished this man from Mycenae after he killed Electryon with a ricocheting club; for that act he was purified by Creon. [PWR]
  - This grandfather of Iolaus had a son who slept with Automedusa and died during his conquest of the sons of Hippocoon. [PWR]
  - While this father of (*) Iphicles was away, Zeus made one night last for three to sleep with his wife.
  - For 10 points, name this stepfather of Heracles. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ariste gives his prospective wife more freedom than Sganarelle ("scan-a-RELL") in a play inspired by Terence's Adelphoe("ad-ell-FOE-ee") that is titled for one of these places. For 10 points each;
  Part 1 (ans: schools [or L'ecole; accept The School for Wives and The School for Husbands or L'ecole des femmes or L'ecole des maris]):
    Name these places. Arnolphe assumes the name "Monsieur de la Souche" ("muhs-YUHR duh la SOOSH") and gives his ward Agnes eleven maxims of marriage in a play titled for these places.
  Part 2 (ans: Moliere [or Jean-Baptiste Poquelin]):
    The School for Wives and The School for Husbands was written by this playwright of Tartuffe, who frequently drew on classics in plays like The Miser.
  Part 3 (ans: Amphitryon("am-FIT-tree-on") [or Amphitruo]):
    Moliere drew on Plautus in a play titled for this character that was later adapted by John Dryden and Heinrich von Kleist. The French word for "look-alike" comes from the name of this character's servant Sosie who is impersonated by Mercury in the play.

[B2] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright introduced the stock character of the "Braggart Soldier" with his play Miles Gloriosus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Name this Roman playwright who inspired Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors with his play about twin boys separated at birth, The Menaechmi.
  Part 2 (ans: Amphitryon):
    Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors complicates the plot of The Menaechmi by taking the device of twin servants from Plautus's play titled for this character, his only work on a mythological subject. This man gives a detailed account of murders committed by his step-son in a Seneca play.
  Part 3 (ans: Aulularia [or The Pot of Gold; or The Little Pot]):
    Moliere, who based his own Amphitryon on Plautus's play, also drew on the miserly character of Euclio from this Plautus play for his The Miser.

[B3] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a frantic exchange in this play's first act, the protagonist is relieved to discover that the "it" Horace took from a girl is not her virginity but a ribbon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The School for Wives [or L'ecole des femmes]):
    Name this play in which Arnolph forces his ward Agnes to learn a set of eleven rhyming maxims proscribing against makeup, picnics, writing paper, and many other things.
  Part 2 (ans: Amphitryon):
    Moliere also treated the theme of cuckoldry in this play, in which Mercury and the figure of "Night" help Jupiter slow down time as he makes love to the wife of an absent general. A line from this play has become an idiom usually translated as "he who gives the feast is the host."
  Part 3 (ans: imaginary [or imaginaire; accept The Imaginary Cuckold or The Imaginary Invalid or Sganarelle, ou Le Cocu imaginaire or Le malade imaginaire]):
    Sganarelle ("SCAN"-uh-rel) believes his wife is cheating on him after she picks up a locket portrait of a stranger in a Moliere play titled for this sort of "cuckold." The hypochondriac Argan stars in a Moliere play titled for this sort of "invalid."

[B4] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this group, Macaria, offers herself up after an oracle calls for the sacrifice of a maiden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the children of Heracles [or obvious equivalents]):
    Identify this group of siblings that titles a Euripides play, in which they and Iolaus are hounded by Eurystheus after the death of their father.
  Part 2 (ans: Athens):
    The Children of Heracles is set in this city, which is ruled by Theseus's son Demophon. This city chose its namesake goddess as its patron when she gave it the olive tree.
  Part 3 (ans: Amphitryon):
    In another Euripides play about Heracles, Megara, Heracles's children, and this man are sentenced to death by the Theban Lycus. This man once tried to kill a cow with a club, which rebounded, killing his uncle Electryon.

[B5] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Leadin: Kreon commanded this man to hunt down an animal so fast that it was fated never to be caught. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amphitryon):
    Identify this Theban general, who borrowed Cephalus' dog Laelaps in his hunt for the Teumessian Fox.
  Part 2 (ans: throwing him into a briar patch [synonyms for throwing acceptable, but briar patch is required; prompt on answers like throwing Br'er Rabbit into his hiding place]):
    In one of the tales of Uncle Remus, Br'er Fox successfully captures Br'er Rabbit by fashioning a "tar baby." However, Br'er Rabbit escapes after facetiously begging Br'er Fox not to do this to him, which Br'er Fox foolishly does.
  Part 3 (ans: Da Ji):
    A major antagonist in The Investiture of the Gods, this fox spirit-possessed concubine causes the downfall of the Shang Dynasty by showing King Zhou the joy of forcing his subjects to run on burning-hot cylinders.
