=== STOCK CLUES: Plautus ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 38 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Plautus [or Titus Maccius Plautus]
  - Macilente claims "I will not do as" this author did in the last line of Every Man out of His Humor, while the first lines of Volpone imitate the "acrostic arguments" attached to this author's works.
  - In an adaptation of this author, a kitchen maid is compared to a "globe" with France on her forehead, Spain on her breath, and Ireland's bogs in her buttocks. [PWR]
  - A character inspired by one of this author's characters is fended off by "Amazon" maids wielding distaffs, pokers, and brooms after Merrygreeke goads him into (*) attacking the widow Dame Custance's house. [PWR]
  - One of this author's title characters inspired the title man of Nicholas Udall's play Ralph Roister Doister.
  - An adaptation of one of this author's plays is set in Ephesus and complicates the plot by adding two servants named Dromio.
  - For 10 points, what author of Miles Gloriosus inspired The Comedy of Errors with his play Menaechmi? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Plautus [or Titus Maccius Plautus] (The first play is Truculentus.)
  - In a play by this author, a prostitute borrows a baby to convince a returning soldier that he had impregnated her. [PWR]
  - Completeness of this author's plays varies by letter of the alphabet because the monk who produced the Ambrosian palimpsest got tired of scrubbing midway through.
  - This author used a comparatively low proportion of iambic verse, meaning more of this author's dialogue was meant to be sung than that of a later contemporary. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, the (*) slave Palaestrio tricks his master, who is introduced with several servants carrying his comically large shield.
  - A play by this author about two separated twins in Epidamnus was adapted by Shakespeare for The Comedy of Errors.
  - For 10 points, Miles Gloriosus (MEE-lez glory-OH-sus) and The Menaechmi are by which Roman playwright? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Titus Maccius Plautus (The play from the second sentence is Poenulus.)
  - A maxim from this author about how men deal with strangers is the oldest extant source for the Latin saying "homo homini lupus." A work by this author is the only extant instance of Latin literature preserving text in Carthaginian Punic. [PWR]
  - This author often compounded words to create neologisms like dentifrangibula (DEN-tee-fran-GEE-boo-lah) for "fists" and Suavisaviatio (SWA-vis-ah-vee-AH-tee-oh) for a love god. [PWR]
  - This author's corpus preserves the most uses of unfamiliar (*) Latin forms like the exclamations ecastor (ay-CAST-or) and hercle (HAIR-clay).
  - This author invented character names with Greek etymologies like "Conqueror of Many Towers" for a work based on the alazon (uh-LOZ-doan) trope.
  - This archaic writer gave characters names like "Peniculus" and "Pyrgopolynices" (PEER-go-pol-ee-"NICE"-eez).
  - For 10 points, name this Roman comic playwright who authored the Menaechmi and The Braggart Soldier. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Titus Maccius Plautus
  - In one play by this author, Gripus questions the ability of a play to affect change in its viewers and Daemones regains control of his daughter from her abductor Labrax. [PWR]
  - The first reference to a "tragicomedy" occurs in one play by this man, in which Alcumena gives birth to Hercules after Zeus seduces her as the title character.
  - This author of Amphitryon and The Rope wrote about a slave's rescue of Calidorus's lover from the pimp Ballio. [PWR]
  - Pleusicles rescues his wife and his slave from (*) Pyrgopolynices, a "braggart soldier."In his most famous play, Phaedria and Lyconides receive the title object as dowry from the miserly Euclio after it is stolen by a greedy slave. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Roman playwright of Pseudolus, Miles Gloriosus, and The Pot of Gold. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Titus Maccius Plautus
  - In one of this author's plays, a servant caught peeking in roofs through a skylight claims to be searching for a monkey, though in reality he has spotted Philocomasium.
  - That play's title character has a ($) shield so big multiple servants must carry it, and is followed by the flatterer Artorogus, and is the arrogant soldier Pyrgopolynices.
  - One of this author's characters is mistakenly given his (*) brother's wife's mantle by the prostitute Erotium, who cooked dinner for that brother and Peniculus.
  - In that work, Sosicles changes his name after his twin brother is kidnapped by a man from Epidamnus.
  - For ten points, identify this Roman playwright of Miles Glorious, who inspired The Comedy of Errors with his play The Menaechmi. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Titus Maccius Plautus
  - This author created a man who says that he doesn't like how two characters are "soldering" their lips together, in reference to a man disguised as a sailor and that man's lover who had earlier been kidnapped from him. [PWR]
  - Another of this author's works includes a scene in which the chef Congrio is complaining about being beaten and then sees the main character holding a cudgel; that act also includes a discussion between (*) Megadorus and the protagonist about a planned marriage for the protagonist's daughter, Phaedria.
  - This man wrote a play in which Pleusicles is reunited with his lover, Philocomasium, thanks to the trickery of Palaestrio.
  - This author of a play about Pyrgopolynices also wrote about how the title object of another play was found in the house of the miserly Euclio.
  - For 10 points, name this Roman playwright of Miles Gloriosus and The Pot of Gold. [GIVE]

[T7] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Titus Maccius Plautus
  - Eduard Fraenkel analyzed the works of this playwright by noting his use of comparative idioms, claiming that many speeches that he wrote compare mortals favorably to deities with no mythological basis. [PWR]
  - In one of this man's plays, the slave Palaestrio invents the character of Honoria as part of a plan to trick Pyrgopolynices into returning Palaestrio to his former master.
  - The title character of one of this man's plays hires someone to impersonate the messenger, Harpax, as part of his plot to rescue (*) Phoenicium for his master, Calidorus.
  - The creator of an egotistical soldier in Miles Gloriosus, he wrote about the bestowing of a mantle to the prostitute Erotium as part of the confusion in a play about twins that inspired A Comedy of Errors.
  - For 10 points, name this Roman author of Pseudolus and Menaechmi. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author borrowed many of his plays' speeches from the translator Thomas North. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Shakespeare):
    Name this author who used North's translation of Plutarch's Parallel Lives as the source for his plays Coriolanus, Antony and Cleopatra, and Julius Caesar.
  Part 2 (ans: Thyestes):
    Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus drew inspiration from this bloody play by Seneca the Younger. The title character of this play is fed his children as revenge for stealing a golden ram and seducing his brother's wife Aerope ("eye-ROH-pee").
  Part 3 (ans: Plautus [or Titus Maccius Plautus]):
    This author's play about the confusion created by a set of identical twins, Menaechmi ("men-ECK-mee"), was the basis of Shakespeare's The Comedy of Errors. Another play by this author centers on the boastful soldier Pyrgopolynices ("PEER-goh-pah-lee-NICE-eez").

[B2] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each-answer the following about shipwrecks in Latin literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Encolpius):
    This character's mortal enemy Lichas of Tarentum drowns after being shipwrecked. This protagonist of Petronius's Satyricon attends an immensely ostentatious dinner party hosted by the freedman Trimalchio.
  Part 2 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    In this author's comedy Rudens, the star Arcturus foretells the shipwreck of the wicked pimp Labrax. This predecessor to Terence also wrote Miles Gloriosus and Menaechmi.
  Part 3 (ans: Horace's Epodes [prompt on iambi]):
    The tenth poem in this Golden Age collection reverses the propempticon theme, in which the poet wishes a friend a good voyage, by asking that Maevius be shipwrecked. This collection draws heavily on the iambic poetry of Archilochus.

[B3] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright introduced the stock character of the "Braggart Soldier" with his play Miles Gloriosus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Name this Roman playwright who inspired Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors with his play about twin boys separated at birth, The Menaechmi.
  Part 2 (ans: Amphitryon):
    Shakespeare's Comedy of Errors complicates the plot of The Menaechmi by taking the device of twin servants from Plautus's play titled for this character, his only work on a mythological subject. This man gives a detailed account of murders committed by his step-son in a Seneca play.
  Part 3 (ans: Aulularia [or The Pot of Gold; or The Little Pot]):
    Moliere, who based his own Amphitryon on Plautus's play, also drew on the miserly character of Euclio from this Plautus play for his The Miser.

[B4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Since the person entrusted with erasing a manuscript of this author's plays apparently got tired halfway through, his plays beginning with letters towards the start of the alphabet are worse-preserved than those later in the alphabet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Name this early Roman comic playwright, who wrote The Pot of Gold and Menaechmi, both including large numbers of stock characters.
  Part 2 (ans: Braggart Soldier [or miles gloriosus]):
    One of Plautus's comedies is titled for an overconfident member of this profession called Pyrgopolynices (PEER-go-poly-NEE-seez), who ends up being beaten towards the end of that play after he keeps Philocomasium (FYE-lo-ko-MAH-see-um) imprisoned in his house.
  Part 3 (ans: Rope [or Rudens]):
    This other play by Plautus centres on the pimp Labrax, who ends up accidentally delivering a slave prostitute to her own father. It also features a delusional fisherman, who intends to found a city in his own name after catching a large trunk in his net.

[B5] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One play by this man ends with the title character, already drunk, going off to drink with Simo, and refusing to invite the audience along. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Name this playwright, whose works include The Weevil, The One With The Asses, and The Pot of Gold.
  Part 2 (ans: Miles Gloriosus [or The Swaggering Soldier or The Vainglorious Soldier or The Braggart Soldier, or other reasonable translations mentioning a soldier who brags]):
    Plautus also wrote this play, whose title describes its central character, a stock character of the alazon type, Pyrgopolynices. His retinue includes Artotrogus, who constantly flatters him, and several slaves carrying his enormous shield.
  Part 3 (ans: Terence [accept Publius Terentius Afer]):
    Like Plautus, this other Roman comic playwright drew on Attic comedy for plays like Phormio, The Brothers, and Hecyra, or The Mother-In-Law.

[B6] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play forms the basis for Shakespeare's The Comedy of Errors. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Menaechmi [accept The Brothers Menaechmus and The Menaechmuses]):
    Name this play in which the arrival of one twin brother in the same town as the other confuses prostitute Erotium and dogsbody Peniculus.
  Part 2 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Menaechmi was written by this playwright, who also wrote Miles Gloriosus.
  Part 3 (ans: clever slave or servus callidus [accept equivalents that include both components in general terms; prompt on "slave" or "servus"]):
    Messenio in Menaechmi is an example of this stock character who often appears in Plautine works. Another example is the title character of the play Pseudolus.

[B7] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Northrop Frye claims the rare female example of this type of character is Kat from The Taming of the Shrew. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: alazon):
    Name this stock character from Greek Old Comedy known as the imposter who usually is pretending to be something greater than he is. Typically, this fgure is opposed to the bufoon or eiron.
  Part 2 (ans: miles gloriosus):
    This stock figure from Roman drama is derived from the Greek figure of the alazon. Falstaff is an example of this archetype of the braggart warrior, which shares its name with a play about Pyrgopolynices.
  Part 3 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Pyrgopolynices is the title braggart soldier in this Roman author's play Miles Gloriosus. His play Menaechmi was the basis for Shakespeare's The Comedy of Errors.

[B8] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Works by this author include the delightfully titled Twin Pimps. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Name this Roman playwright best known for his farces. Influenced by Menander's New Comedy, he is credited with developing stock characters.
  Part 2 (ans: The Pot of Gold or Aulularia):
    One of Plautus' better known plays is this one centering on the miser Euclio who uses the title object to attract suitors for his daughter Phaedria. It is later revealed that Phaedria had slept with Lyconides while the latter was drunk.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaius Maecenas):
    Another playwright of ancient Rome was Melissus, who wrote fabula trabeata. Melissus was one of this man's freedmen, a noted patron of the arts under Augustus.

[B9] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Phaedria never appears on stage in this play, whose likely ending involves Strobilus being caught and punished. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Pot of Gold [or Aulularia]):
    Name this partially-lost comedy in which the miser Euclio discovers a treasure from his grandfather.
  Part 2 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    The Pot of Gold was written by this Roman playright of Casina and Amphytron.
  Part 3 (ans: Il Capitano [or the Captain]):
    Plautus's title character in Miles Gloriosus is thought to have inspired this long-nosed commedia del'arte figure who typically carries out Pantelone's schemes.

[B10] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This play was the major literary inspiration for The Comedy of Errors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Menaechmi [or The Brothers Menaechmus; or The Two Menaechmuses]):
    Name this play in which the twin sons of Moschus-Sosiscles and the title character-are separated when one is abducted by a businessman Epidamnus, but are reunited at the end.
  Part 2 (ans: Titus Maccius Plautus):
    Menaechmi was written by this Roman playwright who described a braggart soldier in Miles Gloriosus and wrote The Pot of Gold.
  Part 3 (ans: Erotium):
    In Menaechmi, Sosicles goes with Peniculus to give Sosicles' wife's mantle to this prostitute. Confusion ensues when Sosicles' twin Menaechmus arrives in town and retrieves the mantle from this woman.
