=== STOCK CLUES: Fernando Botero ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 30 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fernando Botero (The painting of a gangster is The Death of Pablo Escobar.)
  - This artist was expelled from Jesuit high school for an article praising how Picasso's Cubist art destroyed individualism.
  - This artist created the sculpture Dove of Peace from the remains of the earlier sculpture Bird after it was blown up by a bomb.
  - In a painting by this artist, a gangster falls backwards on a roof as bullets pierce his body.
  - This artist, whose namesake museum in the Candelaria neighborhood contains the painting Mona Lisa, Age 12, painted dogs and guards torturing blindfolded, nude men in a series responding to the Abu Ghraib scandal.
  - This artist's Violence series depicts car bombings and kidnappings in his home country, where president Gustavo Petro eulogized him after his September 2023 death.
  - For 10 points, what Colombian artist was known for exaggerated, rotund depictions of people? [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 WORLDSTAR (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fernando Botero
  - After a sculpture by this artist was destroyed in a terrorist attack, he donated a sculpture of "The Dove of Peace" to be displayed next to the earlier work. [PWR]
  - A woman in pink has a pelt draped around her shoulders in a group portrait by this artist. [PWR]
  - This artist adapted paintings by Old Masters such as Las Meninas and La Fornarina in his distinctive style, which he insists emphasizes "volume" and "sensuality of form." An enormous man holding a pistol and wearing a white button-up stands on top of houses as he dies in a painting by this artist. [PWR]
  - The Berkeley Museum of Art received a series of paintings by this artist of The Death of Pablo (*) Escobar. [PWR]
  - That series includes paintings of prisoners being tortured by guards and dogs in Abu Ghraib.For 10 points, name this Colombian modern artist known for his enlarged, round figures. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 MALA (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fernando Botero
  - One of this artist's parodies of Raphael's portrait of Pope Leo X shows Leo wearing a red dress and holding a fan and cigarette.
  - A man wearing a green suit rides a blindfolded horse on the right side of one of this artists works that also shows a man in a pink general's outfit sitting in a chair. [PWR]
  - This artist of Lefty and his Gang created a statue of a (*) horse with a bridle that stands in Bilbao's Gran Via. [PWR]
  - This artist showed several men covered in blood in a prison cell as part of a series depicting the horrors of Abu Ghraib.
  - For 10 points, name this Colombian artist who likes to paint fat people. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fernando Botero [3]
  - In a depiction of a countryman's death, this painter showed a man standing on the roof of a house as bullets stream neatly through his body.
  - This painter showed a bishop in full red regalia at the center of a countryside landscape in his Trip to the Ecumenical Council. [PWR]
  - Alluding to Las Meninas,a self-portrait peeks from behind an easel in this artist's painting of a woman with a brown pelt around her shoulders standing next to a general, a bishop, and the rest of the titular Presidential Family.
  - A "permanent accusation" by this artist is set in prison cells with metal bars forming the background.
  - In that series, this artist showed (*) guards and dogs violently humiliating their bleeding prisoners, who are usually naked.
  - Those works retain this painter's distinctive figural style, famously used for a painting in which the Mona Lisa's face fills a quarter of the canvas.
  - For 10 points, name this Colombian painter of the Abu Ghraib series, known for his cartoonish, rotund figures. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fernando Botero Angulo
  - In 2008, the exhibition "The Baroque World of" this artist was held at several American museums and marked the first major US retrospective of his work in 30 years.
  - That exhibition credited the development of this artist's style to an early still life of a mandolin with an extremely small central hole. [PWR]
  - His public sculptures include a five-ton bronze nude in front of London's Liverpool Street Station called Broadgate Venus. [PWR]
  - After reading a Seymour Hersh article in The New Yorker, he was inspired to paint a 56-piece series which includes several scenes of dogs snarling and (*) attacking blindfolded men. [PWR]
  - A giant man with an unbuttoned white shirt, standing on rooftops, is riddled with a stream of bullets in his painting Death of Pablo Escobar.
  - He reinterpreted Luncheon on the Grass with a naked man and clothed woman, and donated his paintings of torture at Abu Ghraib to the Berkeley Museum of Art.
  - For 10 points, name this Colombian painter known for his fat, inflated subjects, such as in his parody of the Mona Lisa. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Inspired by an artist's "desecration" of a print of this painting, Salvador Dali collaborated with Phillipe Halsman to depict himself as its subject. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mona Lisa):
    Name this often-parodied painting by Leonardo da Vinci that depicts the wife of Francesco del Giocondo.
  Part 2 (ans: L.H.O.O.Q ("el-hosh-oh-oh-Q")):
    Dali's Self Portrait as Mona Lisa was inspired by this artwork by Marcel Duchamp consisting of a mustache drawn on a postcard of the Mona Lisa.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Botero [or Fernando Botero Angulo]):
    Two more parodies of the Mona Lisa were produced by this Colombian artist: one at "Age Twelve," and another that depicts the subject with an exaggerated round body in his signature style.

[B2] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's style was inspired by accidentally painting a tiny hole in an image of a mandolin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Botero [or Fernando Botero Angulo]):
    Name this Colombian artist who compared his series criticizing the American torture of Iraqi prisoners in Abu Ghraib to Picasso's Guernica. His style includes round, voluptuous figures that often critique the upper class.
  Part 2 (ans: graffiti [or stencil graffiti; accept street art]):
    Colombian artists like Guahce and DjLu offer social critiques through this medium. Banksy's protest art is often made in this medium by spray painting a stencil onto a public space.
  Part 3 (ans: Turbine Hall [prompt on the Tate Modern]):
    Doris Salcedo created a massive crack cast from a Colombian rock face through the floor of this location to represent racial divides. In 2003, another artist represented the sun at this place with a large ball of yellow-orange light for his Weather Project.

[B3] 2021 QB League Season 2 (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist requested that his paintings of the prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib should be exhibited at all times as a "permanent accusation." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Botero Angulo):
    Name this artist, who also depicted Pablo Escobar as a giant being riddled with bullets as he stands on a rooftop.
  Part 2 (ans: the Mona Lisa [or la Gioconda or la Joconde; accept Mona Lisa: Age Twelve]):
    Botero is known for his fat, baby-like parodies of historical portraits, including this one by Leonardo da Vinci. The woman in this portrait has an enigmatic smile and seems to lack eyebrows.
  Part 3 (ans: Raphael [or Rafaello Sanzio da Urbino]):
    Botero has also parodied this artist's portrait of Pope Leo X ("the tenth"), in which he is depicted between two cardinals. This artist's paintings decorate the Stanza della segnatura.

[B4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After a sculpture of a bird by this artist was damaged by dynamite, he donated an identical sculpture to stand next to the damaged one. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Botero Angulo):
    Name this Colombian artist known for depicting figures in an exaggeratedly round manner.
  Part 2 (ans: Mona Lisa [or Lisa; or Lisa del Giocondo; or La Golconda or La Joconde; prompt on L.H.O.O.Q.]):
    Botero depicted this woman with an enlarged head at the age of twelve. Marcel Duchamp added a goatee to a picture of this woman on a postcard.
  Part 3 (ans: Diego Velazquez):
    Botero also created a double self-portrait based on a painting by this artist. This artist appears with the red cross of the Order of Santiago on his chest as he looks into an easel on the left side of his masterpiece Las Meninas.

[B5] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist portrayed a green demonic dog bloodying the back of a blindfolded prisoner in a prison cell as part of his series condemning the Abu Ghraib scandal, which he called "a permanent accusation." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Botero Angulo):
    Name this Colombian artist who, in his own versions of the Mona Lisa and Arnolfini Wedding, represented the subjects in his characteristic style, with rotund bodies and exaggerated volumes.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Clemente Orozco):
    This Mexican painter included serpents rising out of the sea around a pointing figure in Departure of Quetzalcoatl, part of a series he did for Dartmouth College entitled The Epic of American Civilization.
  Part 3 (ans: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]):
    Artists from this Latin American nation include Lygia Clark, who made a series of movable metal objects with hinges called Bichos. This nation's Mt. Corcovado is topped by the massive Art Deco statue Christ the Redeemer.

[B6] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these artists who adapted Velasquez's Las Meninas, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes):
    This Spanish artist who created the Black Paintings included himself to the left of an 1800 depiction of the royal family of Charles IV, often considered a satirical response to Las Meninas.
  Part 2 (ans: Pablo Picasso):
    This painter's series of 58 studies of Las Meninas includes a black-and-white version with a stick figure chasing a dog in the front. He created an allegory of his late friend, who killed himself after being spurned by a lover, in his painting La Vie.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Botero Angulo):
    This contemporary artist from Colombia depicted himself painting a highly-disfigured scene of political elites in The Presidential Family. He often paints exaggerated, fat figures, as in his series depicting the Abu Ghraib abuses.

[B7] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about Latin American painters, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo):
    This painter, who was married to Diego Rivera, is known for her self-portraits and paintings like The Suicide of Dorothy Hale.
  Part 2 (ans: heart):
    In the double self-portrait The Two Fridas, the two subjects are connected by this internal organ.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Botero):
    This Colombian painter of the Abu Ghraib series is famous for his paintings of rotund people.

[B8] 2012 Delta Burke (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The businessman Nick Berg was beheaded in response to a scandal at this location, where Charles Graner and Lynndie England were photographed abusing prisoners. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abu Ghraib [or Abu Ghuraib; or Baghdad Central Prison]):
    Name this prison that was the subject of a 2004 report by Antonio Taguba.
  Part 2 (ans: Iraq):
    Abu Ghraib is located in this country, which was invaded by the US (and Poland!) in 2003.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Botero):
    This artist from Colombia created a series of paintings and drawings depicting the Abu Ghraib abuse scandal. He may be better known for paintings of seemingly happy, fat people.
