=== STOCK CLUES: Ashcan School ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ashcan school [or The Eight]
  - The strangest artist in this movement developed a weird "inhalation" theory of art and created an austere landscape with three unicorns at the bottom. [PWR]
  - Inspired by Manet's Bar at the Folies-Bergere, an artist from this movement painted his wife in a mirror behind the proprietor of a cafe in Chez Mouquin.
  - The Macbeth Galleries housed the biggest exhibition of artists in this movement, many of whom had met while studying under Thomas Anshutz. [PWR]
  - (*) Arthur Davies later joined this movement, whose original members included John Sloan and William Glackens.
  - Its ringleader painted a carriage on a snowy street, though equally famous today is an artist from this movement known for his boxing scenes.
  - For 10 points, name this gritty realist American art movement led by Robert Henri and George Bellows. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A man who trained under this school befriended its members Glenn Coleman and Henry Glintenkamp before eventually gravitating towards cubism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ashcan School):
    Name this realist art movement which attempted to portray life in New York City. Stuart Davis studied under Robert Henri ("HEN-rye"), a leader of this school which included George Bellows.
  Part 2 (ans: John Sloan [or John French Sloan]):
    Davis was particularly close to this Ashcan artist, who depicted a crowd watching a stylist color a woman's hair in Hairdresser's Window. This artist painted a neighborhood establishment in his work McSorley's Bar.
  Part 3 (ans: Philadelphia [or Philly]):
    Davis and Sloan were among the many Ashcan artists who grew up in this city. Ashcan artist William Glackens helped purchase the initial paintings for this city's Barnes Foundation.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting of this title depicts a landlord looking out at the drunken artist and his friend who painted on his canvas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Wrestlers):
    Give this title shared by that painting and a 1905 work depicting two men that was created to shock the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, which the artist called "pink-and-white idiots."
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan School):
    George Luks, the painter of two works titled The Wrestlers, was a part of this American art movement related to The Eight that focused on depicting poorer neighborhoods of New York. George Bellows and William Glackens were involved in this art movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Cliff Dwellers):
    This 1913 painting by Bellows depicts laundry hanging between two apartment buildings over a large crowd of people in New York's Lower East Side.

[B3] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about things you can buy with a nickel in American paintings, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Nighthawks):
    A sign advertising five-cent Phillies Cigars hangs above the diner depicted in this Edward Hopper painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan School [or The Eight]):
    A theatergoer peers at the viewer in the painting Movies, Five Cents by John Sloan, a member of this art movement. The author of The Art Spirit, Robert Henri, was part of this group, whose art focused on scenes of daily life.
  Part 3 (ans: Wayne Thiebaud ("TEE-bo")):
    Five-cent slot machines are the subject of several paintings by this artist. This artist created many brightly-colored oil paintings featuring rows of cakes, ice cream cones, and gumball machines.

[B4] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The name of this movement originated in the caption of a drawing from the Philadelphia Record that was disparaged by the cartoonist Art Young. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ashcan School [prompt on The Eight]):
    Name this artistic movement whose works depicted ubiquitous scenes of urban life. An artist from this movement illustrated a street scene filled with people in his painting Cliff Dwellers.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Henri [or Robert Henry Cozad]):
    The origins of the Ashcan School can be traced back to this organizer of "The Eight." This man's teachings are collected in The Art Spirit, in which he encouraged interest in color and light as "means of expression."
  Part 3 (ans: George Wesley Bellows):
    Robert Henri taught this member of the Ashcan school. Dempsey and Firpo and Stag at Sharkey's are two of this artist's many paintings of boxers.

[B5] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This book advises that "Every line should be the universe to you," in a section composed of notes taken by the author's pupil Margery Ryerson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Art Spirit):
    Name this highly aphoristic book that opens by declaring that "Art when really understood is the province of every being." It was compiled from the lectures and writings of painter Robert Henri.
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan School [accept The Eight]):
    Alongside artists in his circle like John Sloan and William Glackens, Robert Henri led this realist movement in American painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Symphony in White, No. 1: The White Girl (by James Whistler) [accept either underlined portion]):
    Towards the end of The Art Spirit, Henri writes that the hands in this painting are unfinished because its artist "could not descend to common manufacture." The subject of this portrait, who is modeled on Joanna Hiffernan, holds a lily and stands on a wolf skin in front of a curtain matching her dress.

[B6] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the late 19th century, this Canadian-born American artist was the leading master of Monotype art in North America, and he provided the engravings for J. M. Barrie's My Lady Nicotine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maurice Brazil Prendergast):
    Identify this Post-Impressionist perhaps best known for his brightly colored scenes of the bourgeois at leisure such as May Day Central Park and his watercolors of Boston Public Garden.
  Part 2 (ans: The Eight [or the Ashcan School]):
    Although Prendergast exhibited with this American art group, his paintings did not share the style or subject matter of leader Robert Henri or McSorley's Bar painter John Sloan.
  Part 3 (ans: Winslow Homer):
    At the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, one can compare Prendergast's many beach scenes with this artist's Long Branch, New Jersey, a painting where two women holding umbrellas in the foreground gaze down the dunes at bathers. He also painted The Fox Hunt.

[B7] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Robert Henri was a leading figure in this artistic movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ashcan School):
    Name this artistic movement which depicted realistic scenes of lower-class New York neighborhoods. Several artists of this movement were also members of a group dubbed "The Eight."
  Part 2 (ans: John French Sloan):
    Another prominent member of the Ashcan school was this artist known for overtly socialist themes in his work. He also painted a famous bespectacled self-portrait with a crooked tie, which was painted on a window panel.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Cowperthwait Eakins):
    Robert Henri studied under Thomas Anshutz, who in turn studied under this Philadelphia-based artist. It may help you to know that he painted two wildly different depictions of surgeries.

[B8] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted his second wife, the newspaper cartoonist Marjorie Organ, against a plain black background in his portrait The Masquerade Dress. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Henri [or Robert Earle Henri]):
    Name this artist who collected his teachings in his book The Art Spirit, and painted a carriage rolling down a street surrounded by brownstone apartment buildings in Snow in New York. He organized "The Eight."
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan School):
    "The Eight" later developed into this realistic American art movement, best-known for its gritty depictions of lower-class New York City.
  Part 3 (ans: John Sloan [or John French Sloan]):
    Henri organized the Exhibition of Independent Artists with the help of this fellow member of "The Eight," whose sympathetic portrayals of working-class New Yorkers include Wake of the Ferry and McSorley's Bar.

[B9] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted his second wife Marjorie Organ in The Masquerade Dress, and his portrait of Isadora Duncan in a red dress is called The Little Dancer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Henri):
    Name this American artist of Salome and La Neige who wrote The Art Spirit helped found a group of New York artists that included John Sloan, George Luks, and Everett Shinn.
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan school):
    Along with four other members of "The Eight," Henri belonged to this artistic movement that sought to capture the nitty-gritty realistic scenes of daily street life in New York.
  Part 3 (ans: George Bellows):
    This other American realist painter was a student of Henri and did paintings of boxers such as Both Members of This Club and Dempsey and Firpo.

[B10] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's Sulky Boy shows a boy leaning against a table with a bowl of apples on it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Luks):
    Name this painter of numerous realist street scenes like Houston Street and Hester Street, whose rejection from a gallery exhibition prompted Robert Henri to storm out and create a new artistic group.
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan School):
    George Luks was a member of this American school closely associated with "The Eight." Its name derives from the fact that they depicted the dirt and dust of urban American life.
  Part 3 (ans: boxing matches [or prizefighting]):
    Another member of the Ashcan School, George Bellows, is known for his paintings of this type of event, most notably in Both Members of This Club and Stag at Sharkey's.

[B11] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted a depiction of New York City entitled Cliff Dwellers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Wesley Bellows):
    Name this artist whose most famous works depict various amateur boxing matches, including his A Stag at Sharkey's.
  Part 2 (ans: Both Members of This Club):
    This Bellows painting of a boxing match depicts a white boxer and the black fighter Joe Gans. Its title satirically refers to the practice of fighters not truly being part of private sport groups.
  Part 3 (ans: Ashcan School):
    Bellows was associated with The Eight as well as this largely overlapping group, who painted poor urban life in New York. Members included William Glackens and Robert Henri.
