=== STOCK CLUES: Cindy Sherman ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cindy Sherman [or Cynthia Morris Sherman]
  - This artist held up fake grapes to imitate Caravaggio's  Young Sick Bacchus as part of the "History Portrait" series. [PWR]
  - This artist had a brief relationship with Robert Longo, who included her in his Men in the Cities series. [PWR]
  - Laura Mulvey's essay "A Phantasmagoria of the Female Body" analyzed the work of this artist.
  - This artist clutches a newspaper ad and lays on the floor in an orange sweater as part of the (*) Centerfold series. [PWR]
  - This artist arranged artificial body parts into sexually explicit positions for the Sex Pictures series.
  - Nicknames such as "The Hitchhiker" and "City Girl" form part of this artist's series of self-portraits that attempt to evoke stock female characters.
  - For 10 points, name this "Pictures Generation" photographer of the Untitled Film Stills. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cindy Sherman <ES>
  - Photos of this person in blackface caused controversy at a 2016 Broad Museum exhibition titled "The Imitation of Life." This person posed for a series of photographs that were then cut out into paper dolls and used for a 1930's-themed Murder Mystery after graduating from Buffalo State College. [PWR]
  - Another photo series focuses on this person posing in front of digitally-manipulated backgrounds while wearing various clown outfits. [PWR]
  - This woman stares into a mountain range while standing next to a suitcase in a photograph known as The (*) Hitchhiker. [PWR]
  - James Franco placed himself in a series of photographs that originally depicted this model of the Centerfolds series posing as if she was a classic Hollywood actress.
  - For 10 points, name this Pictures Generation photographer who served as her own model in works like Untitled Film Stills. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cindy Sherman (The essay is "The Phantasmagoria of the Female Body" by Laura Mulvey.)
  - Popularization of this artist's work was helped by a 1991 New Left Review essay calling it a "phantasmagoria." Suzy Lake is often cited as a major mutual influence on this artist, who invited Lake to a 1975 exhibition at Hallwalls and used digital editing to superimpose the title performers over each other to create the "Clowns" series.
  - This artist's later work imitating Old Masters includes a reworking of Raphael's Fornarina simply called "No. 205." For one series, this artist ordered dolls and prosthetic limbs from medical supply catalogues and used them to imitate porn.
  - Before Andreas Gursky's Rhine II sold, a photo from this artist's "Centerfolds" series set a price record.
  - This artist rose to prominence with a series of self-portraits inspired by '50s and '60s movies, showing herself in stereotypical female roles.
  - For 10 points, name this conceptual photographer of Sex Pictures and Untitled Film Stills. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist was inspired by Robert Mapplethorpe for a series featuring pieced-together medical dummies in flagrante delicto. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cindy Sherman [or Cynthia Morris Sherman]):
    Name this artist behind the Sex series. A woman stands next to a suitcase on the side of an Arizona road in one entry of a series by this artist.
  Part 2 (ans: Marilyn Monroe [or Norma Jean Mortenson):
    In Untitled Film Still #54, Sherman walks down a street in an outfit resembling this actress. This actress was famously depicted in a photograph trying to hold down her white dress while standing above a windy subway grate.
  Part 3 (ans: glamour photography):
    Sherman staged a 2018 exhibition entitled The Imitation of Life, portraying herself in the style of this genre of photos. This genre of erotic portraits, which includes pin-ups, was often used in the Golden Age of Hollywood.

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a black-and-white photograph, a woman standing in one of these locations stares towards the right while her left hand gestures at a dropped bag. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kitchens [or Semiotics of the Kitchen]):
    Name this location, the setting of a pioneering piece of video art by Martha Rosler. That artwork is titled Semiotics of [this location].
  Part 2 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    This photographer used kitchens as the setting of the untitled 3rd and 84th photographs in her best-known series, which depicts unnamed women in costume. This photographer also created the Bus Riders and Centerfolds series.
  Part 3 (ans: films [or cinema; or movies; or Untitled Film Stills; or Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema]):
    Sherman's best-known series subverts depictions of women in this art form. Laura Mulvey critiqued how the "male gaze" depicts subjects such as Greta Garbo in this popular art form.

[B3] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: In 2007, Chicago collector John Maloof discovered thousands of photographs by this artist in a suitcase, which went viral when they were published on the website Flickr. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vivian Maier):
    Name this American photographer, whose 150,000 photos were primarily taken when they were working as a nanny. A documentary titled for 'Finding' this photographer was nominated for an Academy Award in 2013.
  Part 2 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    Maier is best known for photographic self-portraits, as is this other photographer who posed in different stereotypical feminine roles in their Untitled Film Stills.
  Part 3 (ans: Instagram):
    Sherman's most recent work has been uploaded to this photo-based social media platform. In her self-portraits for this platform, Sherman uses the app Facetune to alter her appearance as part of a project for W magazine.

[B4] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist appropriated magazine images, such as a woman with leaves over her eyes, in We Won't Play Nature to Your Culture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    Name this feminist artist who used white-on-red lettering over a half-negative photo in Your Body is Battleground.
  Part 2 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    This artist addressed the role of mass media in the form of movies in a series of photographs modeled after movie cliches called Untitled Film Stills.
  Part 3 (ans: The Met [or the Metropolitan Museum of Art]):
    Like Kruger, anonymous art collective The Guerilla Girls used the visual language of advertisements in many poster works, such as one asking whether "women have to be naked to get into" this largest New York art museum.

[B5] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This kind of media was parodied in a highly saturated advertisement created by Lynda Benglis for Artforum that features her wearing a pair of sunglasses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pin-ups [accept pornorgaphy; prompt on magazine covers]):
    Name this kind of media that takes up most of Eduardo Paolozzi's Pop art collage I was a Rich Man's Plaything, in which it appears above the image of an airplane next to the words "Keep 'em flying!"
  Part 2 (ans: Willem de Kooning):
    This Dutch-born abstract expressionist drew on a variety of sources from Paleolithic art like the Venus of Willendorf to pin-ups as the inspiration for his painting Woman I.
  Part 3 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    This artist critiqued the stereotypical depiction of women in B movies with her black and white series Untitled Film Stills, whose 21st entry shows a 'City Girl' with skyscrapers in the background.

[B6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer's 99 Cent II Diptychon (DIP-tih-kon) shows a hyper-saturated supermarket with sprawling, garishly-colored shelves. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andreas Gursky):
    Name this German photographer who edits his photos to create repetitive patterns and surreal expanded landscapes. His photograph depicting an austere river is the most expensive photograph ever sold at auction.
  Part 2 (ans: Rhine River):
    That picture depicts this German and is numbered "II"; Gursky's editing removed the large factories on the horizon. Together with the Ruhr, it runs through an industrial polycentric metropolitan area.
  Part 3 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    Until 2014, this other photographer's self-portrait Untitled #96, depicting her in an orange outfit lying on the floor holding a crumpled piece of paper, was the second most expensive photo ever sold. Her early work's use of blackface has recently become the cause of critical controversy.

[B7] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these contemporary artists that appear in Campbell McGrath's poem "Pentatina for Five Artists," for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    "Ego" is the art of this female postmodern photographer. She depicted herself as a variety of characters in fictional movies in her series Untitled Film Stills.
  Part 2 (ans: Jeff Koons):
    "Money" is the art of this second wealthiest living visual artist. This man is known for his steel sculptures of "banal" objects like Balloon Dog and Michael Jackson and Bubbles.
  Part 3 (ans: People's Republic of China):
    "Fire" is the art of Cai Guo-Qiang, an artist from this nation who often uses explosives in his pieces. Ai Wei Wei, another artist from this nation, is known for a performance in which he smashed a Han dynasty vase.

[B8] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: James Franco tried to reshoot this series with himself in the main role, but god it was awful. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Untitled Film Stills):
    Name this series of black-and-white, mock-vintage photographs. Its images include the photographer looking out skeptically at a cityscape and standing against an old door. It shows the photographer in a variety of stereotypical female roles like housewife and career girl.
  Part 2 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    Untitled Film Stills was created by this photographer, who criticized pornography in her violent Sex Pictures series. Her Untitled #96 depicts herself lying in an orange shirt on a kitchen floor holding an ad.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This other female photographer depicted Japanese children in internment camps as well as showing a determined-looking woman in Migrant Mother.

[B9] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the 1990s, this photographer recreated stereotypical pornographic shots using parts of mannequins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cindy Sherman [Cynthia Morris Sherman]):
    Name this American photographer who depicted herself as a number of stereotypical female movie characters from the late 1970s.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Beuys ("YO-zef BOYCE")):
    Many of Sherman's Untitled Film Stills depict her holding a suitcase. This German Fluxus artist used a suitcase to make I Know No Weekend, as well as creating How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare.
  Part 3 (ans: performance art):
    Beuys's How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare, in which he actually explained pictures to a dead hare and I Like America and America Likes Me, in which he lived in a room with a coyote, exemplify this kind of art.

[B10] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This photographer's Untitled #92 depicts the photographer in a blue, plaid-print skirt and white blouse kneeling on the ground while looking up with an expression of fear, while Untitled #96 depicts the photographer in orange lying on a linoleum floor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    Name this conceptual photographer, who shot herself in various poses as though taken from the shooting of a movie in her Untitled Film Stills.
  Part 2 (ans: Gregory Crewdson):
    This conceptual photographer's film-like, staged tableaux are seen in works like Twilight, in which individuals are caught in uncanny, lonely moments mostly outdoors, and Dream House, which depicted celebrities like Gwyneth Paltrow and Philip Seymour Hoffman cast in similar moments indoors.
  Part 3 (ans: Male Sex Workers [or Male Prostitutes or Rent Boys; accept logical equivalents]):
    Philip-Lorca diCorcia's 1990-92 series Hustlers depicts several young men in this profession in staged photos taken in motel rooms and on the streets of West Hollywood; the individual photo titles include the young men's names, hometowns, and amount paid, which is equal to their usual fee.

[B11] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's image of several men lying wounded in a trench entitled Dead Troops Talk sold for $3.7 million in 2012, making it the third most expensive photograph ever sold. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jeff Wall):
    Name this conceptualist photographer, who depicted a White man using his finger to mock an Asian man while walking down a street in his Mimic.
  Part 2 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    The second most expensive photograph ever sold was the product of this artist, who created the Centerfolds and Untitled Film Stills series.
  Part 3 (ans: National Endowment for the Arts [or NEA]):
    In 1992, Sherman released a series depicting graphic and grotesque sex using medical dolls and prosthetics as part of the artistic discussion of this organization's funding of artists like Robert Mapplethorpe and Piss Christ artist Andres Serrano. Barack Obama appointed Rocco Landesman to chair this organization in 2009.

[B12] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about the career of photorealist artist Chuck Close, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Cindy Sherman [or Cynthia Morris Sherman]):
    Close called this woman "perhaps the most important artist" of the 1980s, and painted her wearing a multicolored shawl. She is perhaps best known for her Untitled Film Stills.
  Part 2 (ans: Duane Hanson):
    This other photorealist used materials like resin and fibreglass to create works like Young Shopper, Tourists and one of a black janitorial worker, Queenie II.
  Part 3 (ans: Minimalism [or Minimalist]):
    Close is also sometimes grouped with this art movement, whose sculptural proponents included Frank Stella and Carl Andre. Philip Glass is often grouped in the musical school of this name.

[B13] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify some photographers, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This woman, while working for the Farm Security Administration, captured several scenes of the Dust Bowl, including a famous portrait of Florence Owens Thompson entitled Migrant Mother.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Bourke-White):
    This other photographer depicted Gandhi at his spinning wheel in one work. Her depiction of Fort Peck Dam appeared on the cover of the first issue of Life Magazine.
  Part 3 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    This MacArthur Fellow's works include Untitled Film Stills and the pornography-inspired Centerfolds. She's also famous for placing herself in series in which classic paintings are reworked, called History Portraits.
