=== STOCK CLUES: Yukio Mishima ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 49 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 27 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the coup attempt of Yukio Mishima [accept the Mishima Incident; accept the suicide or seppuku of Yukio Mishima; accept Kimitake Hiraoka in place of "Yukio Mishima"]
  - A novel written in response to this event ends as a cancer patient sings "Happy Days Are Here Again" while listening to the Bach cantata BWV 56. [PWR]
  - A poem in which a storm declares that "falling is the essence of a flower" was written for the occasion of this event.
  - In a short story thought to foreshadow this event, a young husband and wife have sex under a scroll displaying the word "Sincerity" before dying. [PWR]
  - The story The (*) Day He Himself Shall Wipe Our Tears Away parodies this event, which was foreshadowed in the story "Patriotism." During this event, the leader of the Shield Society delivered a barely-audible speech from a balcony to the JSDF.
  - For 10 points, name this purported attempt to restore the Emperor of Japan orchestrated by the author of Confessions of a Mask. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lady Aoi ("OW-ee") [or Aoi no Ue; prompt on the first wife of Hikaru Genji or equivalents; prompt on answers such as wife by asking "of whom?"] (Masks is by Fumiko Enchi, and the second line refers to Yukio Mishima's Five Modern Noh Plays.)
  - This woman's death is caused by a lady said to be the "object of [man's] eternal fear" in "An Account of the Shrine in the Fields," a fictional essay in the novel Masks.
  - A folded dress represents this woman's spirit in a "madwoman play" whose setting was changed to a hospital for a set of "five modern plays." In a chapter titled for this woman, translated as "Heartvine" by Edward Seidensticker, a feud over carriages on a festival day leads to her possession by a jealous evil (*) spirit and her death in childbirth.
  - This woman remains distant to her husband, unlike a "violet" stand-in for the author whom he kidnaps.
  - At age 16, this daughter of the Minister of the Left is married to her 12-year-old cousin, a "Shining Prince," whose many affairs with women like Lady Fujitsubo anger her.
  - For 10 points, what lady marries the title character of a novel by Murasaki Shikibu? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Yukio Mishima [or Mishima Yukio; or Kimitake Hiraoka]
  - A profile of this author by John Nathan notes that his romance novels were published in magazines like The Housewife's Companion and that he designed the coffee-table photobook Punishment by Roses. [PWR]
  - This author was billed as a "Modernism Gorilla" in a "Last Debate" with the All Campus Joint Struggle Committee depicted in a 2020 documentary.
  - Stephen Dodd recently produced an English translation of the last of this author's "potboilers," a pulp novel originally published in Weekly Playboy titled (*) Life for Sale. [PWR]
  - A character likely based on this author leads a group that sings a Bach chorale in a different author's novella "The Day He Himself Shall Wipe My Tears Away." This author's kaishakunin [kye-shah-koo-neen], a fellow member of the Shield Society, botched three attempts to kill this author in 1970.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author who committed seppuku after staging a failed coup. [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Yukio Mishima [accept Kimitake Hiraoka
  - In a novel by this author, the school prefect unintentionally humiliates two Siamese Princes by having them search the grass in the rain for their lost emerald ring. [PWR]
  - The main character of that novel is asked the question: "what would you do if all of a sudden I weren't here anymore?" In another novel by this author, the protagonist is told, "When you meet the (*) Buddha, kill the Buddha." This author created the Ayakura and Matsugae families in the first of four novels about the reincarnation of Kiyoaki, which concludes with The Decay of an Angel. [PWR]
  - This author described Mizoguchi's burning of the title structure in another novel.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of the Sea of Fertility tetralogy and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka]
  - One of this author's titles relies on an original-language pun between words for "glory" and "drag" which a translator thought would mislead homosexuals to buy the book. [PWR]
  - Ingmar Bergman staged this man's all-female play Madame de Sade, which spurred this author to write and star in his all-male play My Friend Hitler.
  - In a work by this author, a boy is embarrassed by a man who drenches himself in a water fountain. [PWR]
  - That novel ends with a gang of boys drugging that man's tea to dissect him. [PWR]
  - In that book, a man turns towards the sound of a (*) boat's horn after having sex with Fusako, while being spied on through a peephole by Noboru. [PWR]
  - Another character by this author repeats "If you meet the Buddha in the road, kill him" before burning down a building.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and The Sailor Who Fell From Grace with the Sea. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka]
  - An essay by this writer compares words to white ants because they both have a "corrosive function," and notes that the only way to observe the existence of an apple's core is to cut the apple, thereby destroying its core. [PWR]
  - In the epilogue to that essay, this author compares a cloud to a giant Ouroboros  that "mocks all opposites" as he flies in an F104 fighter. [PWR]
  - The narrator of a novel by this author muses about the connection between excrement and the Earth when he sees a "night-soil man" pass him in the street. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of that novel is a weakling child who daydreams about (*) cannibalizing a fellow student and pretends to be attracted to Sonoko to hide his homosexuality. [PWR]
  - This founder of the Shield Society described his quest for physical perfection through bodybuilding in his essay Sun and Steel.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese novelist who committed seppuku after staging a failed coup in 1970, and who wrote Confessions of a Mask. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept names in either order]
  - In a bird's-eye photograph, this man bites on a garden hose and brandishes a wooden hammer while standing on a marble zodiac.
  - The first piece in the "dance of darkness" genre, which his work inspired, drew controversy when the audience thought performers had strangled a chicken.
  - Arrows pierce this man's torso in one piece from an erotic photography collection he modeled for, Ordeal by Roses.
  - The ending of The Truman Show uses a piece of music from a biopic about this man, which shows his grandmother refusing to let him play outside during segments about his childhood.
  - A pulsating E-flat major arpeggio in first inversion concludes the third string quartet of Philip Glass, which is nicknamed for this man.
  - The aforementioned biopic, which culminates with the section "Harmony of Pen and Sword," was directed by Paul Schrader.
  - For 10 points, name this subject of a film subtitled "A Life in Four Chapters," which contains scenes from his novels Runaway Horses and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Yukio Mishima
  - One of this author's characters works 24-hour shifts as a harbor signalman and sleeps with a woman who gives him a medallion inscribed with the letter "N." At the end of a novel by this author, a character inadvertently burns the protagonist's villa down after he falls asleep smoking in bed.
  - Two of this author's characters painstakingly search a grassy area for a lost emerald ring.
  - While visiting the Ajanta Caves in India, a lawyer created by this author is reminded of his friend's promise to "see him... beneath the (*) falls." In a series by this author, the Thai princess Ying Chan, the reactionary Isao Iinuma, and the orphan Toru Yasunaga all have the same pattern of three moles clustered together, leading Shigekuni Honda to suspect that his friend Kiyoaki is being reincarnated. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of the Sea of Fertility tetralogy. [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yukio Mishima
  - The protagonist of one of this author's novels was forced to read the Code of Manu in his youth.
  - He created a character who wishes to pick flowers for a dead black dog found at the top of a waterfall.
  - That character eventually retires to Gesshu Temple, while the protagonist goes to Chakri Palace to visit a Thai princess.
  - In one of his works, Ying Chan and the nationalist Isao Iinuma are thought to be reincarnations of the protagonist's friend Kiyoaki Matsugae.
  - Those aforementioned characters appear in a series including Runaway Horses and Spring Snow.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of a tetralogy of novels about Shigekuni Honda, The Sea of Fertility. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Three of these objects title each section of a novel that features the widow Yasuko Togano, the love interest of Ibuki and Mikame. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: masks [or Confessions of a Mask]):
    Name these objects that title a novel by Fumiko Enchi. One of these objects titles a novel in which a character discovers his homosexuality while gazing upon a painting of Saint Sebastian.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    This author analyzed Kochan's homosexuality in Confessions of a Mask. This author was inspired by the burning of Kinkaku-ji for his novel The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
  Part 3 (ans: Kobo Abe [or Kimifusa Abe]):
    This Japanese author's novel The Face of Another centers on a character who creates a prosthetic mask to see life anew. This author wrote about the entomologist Niki Junpei, who lives in the sand with the title Woman in the Dunes.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Three varieties of these objects symbolize the main characters of a Fumiko Enchi novel about the affairs of a poet who studies spirit possession after her husband's death in an avalanche on Mount Fuji. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: masks [or kamen; accept noh-men; accept Onnamen; accept Confessions of a Mask; accept Kamen no Kokuhaku]):
    Name these objects. In a semi-autobiographical novel titled for one of these objects, Kochan recalls being "choked by desire" in his youth after seeing a night-soil man's trousers and a painting of St. Sebastian.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Mishima Yukio; or Kimitake Hiraoka]):
    Kochan explores his homosexuality in Confessions of a Mask, an "I-novel" by this Japanese author who wrote the Sea of Fertility tetralogy and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
  Part 3 (ans: Mori Ogai [or Ogai Mori; accept Mori Rintaro or Rintaro Mori; prompt on Ogai]):
    Confessions of a Mask was inspired by this author's novel Vita Sexualis, in which a professor becomes interested in sexuality during his youth after seeing erotic woodcuts. After saving some birds from a snake, Okada begins a relationship with Otama in this author's novel The Wild Geese.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Two sisters raised on a garden estate in this country give formal names to flowers in the novel The Blind Earthworm in the Labyrinth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thailand [or Kingdom of Thailand; or Ratcha-anachak Thai; accept Siam] (The Blind Earthworm in the Labyrinth is by Veeraporn Nitiprapha. Four Reigns is by Kukrit Pramoj. The Judgment is by Chart Korbjitti.)):
    Name this country whose monarchy is chronicled in the best-selling novel Four Reigns. An author from this country described a rural janitor becoming a social outcast in his novel The Judgment.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept names in either order]):
    This author's time in Thailand inspired him to write of Shigekuni Honda's visit to the Temple of Dawn in the third novel of his Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
  Part 3 (ans: rain [accept Bangkok Wakes to Rain; accept Black Rain; accept Kuroi Ame; prompt on weather or water or precipitation]):
    A 2019 book by Pitchaya Sudbanthad, structured as 23 vignettes about Thailand, is titled Bangkok Wakes to this stuff. An unusual type of this stuff titles a novel by Masuji Ibuse consisting of diary entries from August 1945.

[B4] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: David Wojnarowicz ("voy-nuh-ROH-vich") painted his lover Peter Hujar dreaming of both this person and an author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saint Sebastian [or Sebastianus; or Sebastiane] (Wilde's adopted pseudonym was Sebastian Melmoth.)):
    Name this person whose gay artistic associations include a homoerotic biopic in Latin by Derek Jarman. After leaving Reading Gaol, Oscar Wilde took a pseudonym referencing both this person and Melmoth the Wanderer.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept names in either order] (The novel is Confessions of a Mask.)):
    Amid his obsession with the human body, this gay author posed as Saint Sebastian for a 1968 photo. The protagonist of a semi-autobiographical novel by this author has a sexual awakening while masturbating to Guido Reni's painting of Saint Sebastian.
  Part 3 (ans: Keith Haring):
    This gay artist showed Sebastian as a large red figure pierced by airplanes in a 1984 poster. This graffiti artist made the mural Crack Is Wack and popularized vibrant, monochrome human figures before dying of AIDS in 1990.

[B5] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's homoerotic poetry includes one about "accompanying my boy lover frightened by a fox." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Matsuo Basho [or Matsuo Basho; or Matsuo Kinsaku; or Matsuo Chuemon Munefusa]):
    Name this poet, who began a travel diary by stating, "The days and months are travelers of eternity."
  Part 2 (ans: death poem [or jisei]):
    A Basho haiku in this genre describes "wandering over withered fields." Sei Shonagon is told to "look at the dew on the leaves and grass" in a poem in this genre by Fujiwara no Teishi.
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    Before his death by seppuku during a failed coup attempt, this author wrote a poem about how "falling is the essence of a flower." He wrote The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.

[B6] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Yambo Ouologuem defended accusations of plagiarizing this author by claiming that his publisher had removed quotation marks around several passages. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Graham Greene):
    Name this British author whose novel It's a Battlefield was "re-appropriated" in Le devoir de violence. This author also wrote The Heart of the Matter and Our Man in Havana.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Mishima Yukio]):
    Sin Gyeongsuk's story "Legend" was removed from shelves for apparently copying sentences wholesale from this author's story "Patriotism." This author expressed a desire for physical perfection in the essay Sun and Steel.
  Part 3 (ans: Afrikaans (The unnamed novel is A Dry White Season.)):
    Red Dog, a Booker-longlisted novel in this language, was exposed for "appropriating" entire passages from Blood Meridian. In a novel in this language, Captain Stolz blocks a teacher from investigating his gardener's death.

[B7] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following relating to female South Korean authors active in the 1990s, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept names in either order]):
    In 2015, Shin Kyung-sook had an edition of her 1996 collection Potato Eaters withdrawn after it was revealed she plagiarized a passage from "Patriotism," a story by this Japanese author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
  Part 2 (ans: The Vegetarian [or Chaesikjuuija]):
    The 1997 short story "The Fruit of My Woman" was the basis for this Man Booker International-winning 2007 novel by Han Kang, in which Yeong-hye (yong-HAY) has a life-altering dream about animal slaughter.
  Part 3 (ans: Choi Young-mi [or Choe Yeongmi; accept names in either order]):
    This author of the hit 1994 collection At Thirty, the Party is Over asked "after growing a monster / is it possible to catch a monster" in a 2017 poem about being sexually harassed by fellow poet "En," who was later revealed to be Ko Un.

[B8] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One essay by this author describes how he used the two title entities to "cultivate his orchard" in a metaphor explaining a certain practice as an art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    Name this creator of a character who ponders "perhaps there has been no I" after an abbess doesn't recall if another character existed. Afterward, this author's character wanders in a garden that had "no memories, nothing."
  Part 2 (ans: committing suicide [accept harakiri or seppuku or descriptive equivalents]):
    Mishima finished that last book in the Sea of Fertility tetralogy shortly before a failed attempt at a coup led him to do this action. Akutagawa wrote "A Note to a Certain Old Friend" before doing this action at 35.
  Part 3 (ans: Confessions of a Mask [accept Kamen no Kokuhaku]):
    This Mishima novel, in which Kochan's repressed homosexuality and admiration for masculinity leads him to be ashamed of admiring a picture of Joan of Arc, is speculated to be semi-autobiographical.

[B9] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This thing is called "a symbol of the real world's evanescence" by a character who feels comforted by the idea that it might be destroyed along with him in an air raid. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Golden Temple [or the Temple of the Golden Pavilion or Kinkaku-ji]):
    Name this thing. A character who remarks, "the first real problem I faced in my life was that of beauty," is struck by impotence after having visions of this thing.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    Mizoguchi burns down the Golden Temple in this author's novel The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, which is based on a real-life event. This author committed seppuku after attempting a coup to overthrow the Japanese Constitution.
  Part 3 (ans: the sea [or synonyms like the ocean; accept The Sea of Fertility or the Sea of Japan]):
    After variously admiring and hating the Temple's beauty throughout his life, Mizoguchi finally resolves to destroy it after traveling northwest and seeing this place. Shigekuni Honda supposes that his friend Kiyoaki Matsugae has repeatedly reincarnated in a Mishima tetralogy titled for this place.

[B10] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the same year as this poem, its author wrote a work in the same form that begins, "For how many years / Has the warrior endured / The rattling of / The sword he wears at his side." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yukio Mishima's death poem [accept Mishima's jisei or farewell poem instead of death poem; reject anything mentioning a "suicide note"; prompt on answers that describe the poem but do not mention Mishima]):
    Describe this poem, which reads in its entirety "Storm winds at night blow / The message that to fall before / The world and before men / By whom falling is dreaded / Is the mark of a flower."
  Part 2 (ans: tanka):
    Mishima's death poem is in this most popular poetic form for death poems. The five lines of this sub-type of waka follow a 5-7-5-7-7 syllable pattern.
  Part 3 (ans: Matsuo Basho [or Sobo; or Tose; or Matsuo Kinsaku; or Matsuo Chuemon Munefusa; accept names in any order]):
    This earlier Japanese author's death poem reads "Sick on my journey, / only my dreams will wander / these desolate moors." That journey took place five years after the one that inspired his Narrow Road to the Deep North.

[B11] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these works by the woodblock printer Yoshitoshi describes the summer moon "holding back the night / with its increasing brilliance." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: death poems [or jisei; prompt on poems, or farewell poems, or suicide poems, or suicide notes; reject "suicide letter" or "death note"]):
    Identify this type of literary work often composed as a haiku. The twelfth chapter of Natsume Soseki's novel Kusamakura discusses the student Misao Fujimura, who is best known for carving one of these works into a tree.
  Part 2 (ans: Kobayashi Issa [or Kobayashi Yataro, or Kobayashi Nobuyuki; accept any name in reverse order]):
    Robert Hass translated this author's death poem as "A bath when you're born / a bath when you die / how stupid." This haiku author and Buddhist priest used a pen name meaning "cup of tea."
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima [accept names in reverse order]):
    The line "A small night storm blows" begins one of the two death poems written by this Japanese author before he led an abortive military coup and performed seppuku in 1970.

[B12] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A confessional genre of literature from this country received its name due to its frequent use of first-person narration. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nippon-koku or Nihon-koku]):
    Name this country. The I-novel genre developed in part as a reaction to the influx of naturalistic Western novels into this country at the end of the 19th century.
  Part 2 (ans: No Longer Human [or Ningen Shikkaku] (by Osamu Dazai.)):
    This I-novel takes the form of three "memoranda" written by its protagonist Oba Yozo, who sinks into morphine addiction and suicidal tendencies, leading him to apply this novel's title condition to himself.
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Mishima Yukio; accept Kimitake Hiraoka or Hiraoka Kimitake]):
    The personal tone of the I-novel genre had a significant influence on this later Japanese author. This author's novels Confessions of a Mask and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion echo the style of the I-novel.

[B13] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay discusses how the author describes how words are like "white ants" in their corrosive power, but now has realized the masculine beauty of the flesh. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sun and Steel: Art, Action and Ritual Death [or Taiyo to Tetsu]):
    Name this 1970 essay, whose epilogue details a flight taken by an F-104. This essay showcases the author's growing appreciation for bodybuilding and martial arts.
  Part 2 (ans: The Temple of the Golden Pavilion [or Kinkaku-ji]):
    In this novel by the author of Sun and Steel, Kashiwagi slaps and breaks up with his girlfriend after asking the protagonist, Mizoguchi, to steal irises and cattails for ikebana, or flower arranging.
  Part 3 (ans: Mishima Yukio [or Yukio Mishima; or Hiraoka Kimitake]):
    This nationalistic Japanese author of Sun and Steel and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion wrote about Kochan struggling to accept his homosexuality in Confessions of a Mask.

[B14] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A man in this story remarks that he has his "death face" after looking in the mirror while shaving;. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Patriotism" [or Yukoku]):
    Identify this short story in which the Lieutenant Shinji and his wife Reiko kill themselves instead of suppressing a mutiny against the army.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [accept names in either order]):
    In addition to "Patriotism," this author also wrote the Sea of Fertility tetralogy and Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
  Part 3 (ans: All have three moles [prompt on partial answer; prompt on birthmarks or equivalents]):
    In the Sea of Fertility tetralogy, Shigekuni Honda recognizes the reincarnated forms of Kiyoaki Matsugae by this distinct physical feature.

[B15] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's death inspired many works by Mori Ogai, such as the samurai story "The Last Testament of Okitsu Yagoemon." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nogi Maresuke [accept names in either order; accept Count Nogi]):
    Name this Japanese general who committed seppuku in 1912. In another work, his suicide disturbs the narrator's ailing father and prompts Sensei to send a long confessional letter to the protagonist.
  Part 2 (ans: Kokoro):
    Nogi's suicide is used to represent the end of the Meiji ethos in this 1914 novel by Natsume Soseki, whose second half consists entirely of Sensei's letter.
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima [accept names in either order; accept Kimitake Hiraoka]):
    Nogi played a large role in reviving seppuku in the 20th century, indirectly inspiring this author's story "Patriotism," as well as his novel Runaway Horses and his ill-fated attempt to overthrow the Japanese government in 1970.

[B16] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some things about books with seasons in their titles, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answer]):
    The Autumn of the Patriarch is a novel by this Colombian writer of Leaf Storm and Love in the Time of Cholera.
  Part 2 (ans: Hermione):
    In Shakespeare's A Winter's Tale, this queen's daughter, Perdita, is unaware that she is of royal lineage. This wife of Leontes is turned to stone, and she dies from a broken heart after her son Mamillius dies of sickness.
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    Spring Snow is the first part of this author's Sea of Fertility tetralogy. This author also wrote about Kochan, who attempts to fit into Imperial Japanese society, in Confessions of a Mask.

[B17] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: During a meeting with "the chief" and his other friends, the protagonist of this novel viciously murders a cat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea [or Gogo no Eiko]):
    Name this novel, in which the protagonist Noboru becomes upset when his new father doesn't beat him for spying on him and his mother Fusako having sex. Its title character is Ryuji, who works on the Rakuyo.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [accept names in reverse order]):
    The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea is a novel by this Japanese author of Confessions of a Mask, who committed suicide while leading a failed coup.
  Part 3 (ans: Forbidden Colors [or Kinjiki]):
    Mishima caused great concern for his wife by visiting gay bars to do research for this novel, which depicts an aging postwar author name Shunsuke, who crafts his brilliant young protege and lover Yuichi into a weapon of revenge against women.

[B18] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A documentary of this author's life "in four chapters" intertwines moments of his life with snippets of his novels and culminates in his attempted coup and public suicide. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka]):
    Name this author of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and The Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Spring Snow [or Haru no Yuki]):
    This first novel of the Sea of Fertility series shows the relationship between Satoko Ayakura and Kiyoaki Matsugae, who keeps a journal of prophetic dreams, which he gives to Shigekuni Honda on his death.
  Part 3 (ans: they all have three moles [prompt on "birthmarks" or whatnot]):
    Kiyoaki is reincarnated as Isao Iinuma in Runaway Horses, Ying Chan in The Temple of Dawn, and the teenager Toru Yasunaga in The Decay of the Angel; Honda recognizes each figure as a reincarnation of Kiyoaki by this sign.

[B19] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one appearance, this character holds a pool party at his villa to see if Ying Chan has three moles on her left side. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Shigekuni Honda [accept either underlined portion; accept names in reverse order]):
    Name this judge who searches for successive reincarnations of his friend Kiyoaki in a series of four books called the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept either set of names if given in reverse order]):
    This Japanese writer introduced Shigekuni Honda in Spring Snow, the first novel of his Sea of Fertility tetralogy. He also wrote The Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Miller [or Henry Valentine Miller]):
    This American imagined meeting Mishima in the realm of Devachan in a set of 1972 "reflections" on Mishima's death. Nearly 30 years earlier, he penned a memoir of a cross-country road trip titled The Air-Conditioned Nightmare.

[B20] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, two young men are hired on a shipping vessel as a secret test of character to determine who is more worthy to marry a wealthy man's daughter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sound of Waves (or Shiosai)):
    Name this Japanese novel where Shinji, a pearl diver, falls in love with the beautiful and wealthy Hatsue.
  Part 2 (ans: The Sea of Fertility (or Hojo no Umi)):
    Spring Snow, Runaway Horses, The Temple of Dawn and The Decay of the Angel are novels in this tetralogy, where Honda meets successive incarnations of his friend Matsugae.
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima (accept Kimitake Hiraoka)):
    The Sound of Waves and The Sea of Fertility are both by this Japanese author who committed seppuku in 1970.

[B21] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The Siamese princes Chao P. and Kri arrive to study at the Peers School in this novel, which focuses on a character who blackmails Shigeyuki Iinuma in order to continue his affair with Satoko. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spring Snow [or Haru no Yuki]):
    Identify this novel about Kiyoaki Matsugae, who on his deathbed tells Shigekuni Honda "I'll see you again". It is the first novel in the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka; accept either name in either order]):
    The Sea of Fertility tetralogy was written by this Japanese author of Temple of the Golden Pavilion, who became obsessed with bodybuilding and right-wing politics before committing seppuku in 1970.
  Part 3 (ans: The Sound of Waves [or Shiosai]):
    In this Mishima novel, Shinji Kubo falls in love with the pearl diver Hatsue Miyata, though the lighthouse keeper's daughter Chiyoko schemes to separate them.

[B22] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel is fascinated with the armpits of a body named Omi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Confessions of a Mask):
    Name this novel about the Japanese boy Kochan's struggles with hiding his true self and his sexuality.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [accept names in either order]):
    Confessions of a Mask is by this Japanese author of the Sea of Fertility tetralogy, who committed seppuku after leading a failed coup to restore the emperor.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Miller [or Henry Valentine Miller]):
    This American author reacted to the Mishima coup in his Reflections on the Death of Mishima. This author was the subject of a controversy that was documented in the essay "Inside the Whale" and which led to the court cases Besig v. United States and Grove Press, Inc. v. Gerstein.

[B23] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The alchemist Zeno of Bruges is the main character of The Abyss, a novel by this first female member of the Academie Francaise. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marguerite Yourcenar [or Marguerite Antoinette Jeanne Marie Ghislaine Cleenewerck de Crayencour]):
    Name this author whose most famous novel takes the form of a letter in which the main character frets about the violence of the war with the Sarmatians and rhapsodizes about his lover Antinous.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima [or Kimitake Hiraoka]):
    Yourcenar wrote about this author's suicide in an essay subtitled A Vision of the Void. He wrote The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Spring Snow [or Haru no Yuki]):
    A pair of Thai princes come to study at the Peers School in this first Sea of Fertility novel, which ends with Kiyoaki Matsugae promising to see Shigekuni Honda again shortly before dying.

[B24] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of a novel by this author constantly peeps through a hole in the wall with Porcupine to catch Red Shirt in the act with a geisha. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Natsume Soseki):
    Name this author who wrote about a math teacher in Botchan.
  Part 2 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    This author included some lascivious peeping in The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea, in which Noboru watches Ryuji have sex with his mother Fusako. He also wrote Spring Snow.
  Part 3 (ans: Japan [accept Nippon]):
    Both Botchan and The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea are novels from this country.

[B25] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Not being allowed writing materials, this author recited four works orally to fellow cellmates until he was allowed to write it down, and later named them after the island prison he was kept on. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pramoedya Ananta Toer):
    Name this Indonesian author of the epic Buru Quartet, who wrote about the protagonist Minke's experiences in a colonial school and relationships with each member of the Mellema family in This Earth of Mankind.
  Part 2 (ans: Lawrence Durrell):
    Like Pramoedya, this Indian-born British novelist also wrote a quartet, The Alexandria Quartet, which includes a book in which both Pursewarden and Darley fawn over the title character, among countless other love triangles.
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    This Japanese author wrote about the ambivalent relationship between Shigekuni Honda and a Thai princess who claims to be the reincarnation of a boy in The Temple of Dawn, which is part of his Sea of Fertility tetralogy.
