=== STOCK CLUES: Rivette ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 10 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 On Cinema at the Buzzer (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jacques Rivette
  - This critic said that Paul Verhoeven's films are all about "surviving in a world populated by assholes" in an interview in which he called Showgirls "one of the great American films of the last few years." This critic wrote that he had the "most profound contempt" for the man who tilted the camera up to view Emmanuelle Riva's hand as her character dies against a barbed wire fence in the film Kapo.
  - After leading a putsch against Eric Rohmer  to become head editor of (*) Cahiers du cinema , this critic took the magazine in a Marxist direction. [PWR]
  - This author of "The Genius of Howard Hawks" directed a film in which candies mysteriously appear in the mouths of two women who explore a mysterious abandoned house in Paris.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Out 1 and Celine and Julie Go Boating. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Reel Knowledge (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jacques Rivette
  - A film by this director was first publicly shown in the U.S. at the Museum of the Moving Image in 2006, 35 years after its first showing. [PWR]
  - A film by this director used scenes with 16mm footage to show the footage made by a TV crew of a theater company preparing a production, and 35mm film to show the crew themselves shooting the footage; that film was his first to feature extensive improvisation and an over 3 hour run time. [PWR]
  - A colour film by this director uses black and white stills along with a black and white segment from the previous episode to connect with the next episode. [PWR]
  - That film, whose first episode is titled (*) "From Lili to Thomas", is a thirteen-hour film inspired by Balzac's Human Comedy. [PWR]
  - In a film by this director, one title character is reading a book of magic when another begins dropping objects on the ground, before visiting a theater called the "House of Fiction" that shows the same play everyday.
  - For 10 points, identify this French New Wave director behind L'amour fou, Out 1, and Celine and Julie Go Boating. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director described his "taste for quotations" in an interview with Cahiers du Cinema ("kah-YAY doo see-nay-MAH"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Luc Godard ("goh-DAR")):
    Name this director, who had Michel Subor's ("mee-SHELL soo-BOR's") Bruno loosely quote the end of The Lady from Shanghai in Le Petit Soldat ("luh puh-TEE sol-DAH"). He directed Breathless.
  Part 2 (ans: The Odyssey [or Odysseia] (The unnamed film is O Brother, Where Art Thou)):
    A Michel Mourlet ("moor-LAY") quote is misattributed to Andre Bazin ("bah-ZEN") in Godard's Contempt, which is about making an adaptation of this literary work. A John Goodman-played Bible salesman robs the central group and kills their frog in another adaptation of this work.
  Part 3 (ans: Jacques Rivette):
    A quote often misattributed to Godard linking camera movements to morality was actually said by Luc Moullet ("moo-LAY")) and used by this director to criticize Gillo ("JEEL-loh") Pontecorvo's Kapo ("kah-POH"). He directed Celine and Julie Go Boating.

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The stars of one of this director's films, Juliet Berto and Dominique Labourier, moved in together during production and would recall their dreams to each other to get into character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacques Rivette):
    Name this director of a film in which two women repeatedly enter an enigmatic house and suck on hard candies to remember what they saw there, Celine and Julie go Boating.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Luc Godard):
    Berto, who portrayed Celine, also appeared in Weekend and other films by this French New Wave director of Breathless.
  Part 3 (ans: Past Lives):
    Rivette's Celine is the namesake of Celine Song, the Korean-Canadian director of this 2023 film about two childhood sweethearts in Korea who reconnect in New York City as adults.

[B3] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Creepy stop motion-animated creatures made of animal bones appear in a film adaptation of Alice in Wonderland from this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czechoslovakia [or Czechia or the Czech Republic or Ceska republika; or Ceskoslovensko; accept Czechoslovak New Wave or Czech New Wave] (Alice was directed by Jan Svankmajer; Daisies was directed by Vera Chytilova)):
    Name this country where a film about girls called Marie I and Marie II, Daisies, was shot during its "New Wave." The director of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Amadeus, Milos Forman, was from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacques Rivette):
    This French director referenced Alice in Wonderland with a scene in which one of the title women follows the other around Paris, attempting to return items that the latter has dropped, in his film Celine and Julie Go Boating.
  Part 3 (ans: David Lynch [or David Keith Lynch]):
    Theories often connect Alice in Wonderland to the work of this American director, who included the fake sitcom Rabbits in the film Lost Empire and mentioned a "cottontail rabbit" in the first episode of Twin Peaks.

[B4] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film opens with one title character dropping her scarf in a Parisian park, a la the White Rabbit from Alice in Wonderland, and the other title character picking it up and chasing after her-including when she hops a tram-for fifteen minutes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Celine and Julie Go Boating [or Celine et Julie vont en bateau]):
    Identify this phantasmagorical film by the director of Paris Belongs to Us that follows a librarian and magician as they attempt to unravel the mystery behind the haunted house at 7 bis, rue du Nadir-aux-Pommes, which originally left them with no memory of their visit and a hard candy in their mouth.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacques Rivette ):
    Celine and Julie Go Boating is a film by this French nouvelle vague director who is also behind the stunning 13-hour epic Out 1: Noli me tangere.
  Part 3 (ans: L'amour fou):
    This superb Rivette film depicts the destruction of the relationship between Sebastien, who is directing a rehearsal of Racine's Andromaque, and his wife, Claire, cast in the leading role of Hermione, who cannot stand the presence of a TV crew filming rehearsals.
