=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Langston Hughes ===
(Questions where 'Langston Hughes' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 68 found, 101 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 45 found, 75 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Cuba [or Republic of Cuba; or Republica de Cuba]
  - A poem from this country ends by describing the resounding wood of "the tree we planted for communism." A boy from this country is warned not to fall in love with a "'Merican gal" in the poem "Don't Know No English." The speaker descends a blue mountain "to put an end to capitalists and usurers, / t
  - The refrain "¡Mayombe-bombe-mayombe!" is chanted in a poem from this country about the sacrifice of a snake, "Sensemaya." A poem from this country begins "A sincere man am I / From the land where palm trees grow." For 10 points, name this home country of Nancy Morejon, Nicolas Guillen, and Jose Mart

[TM2] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: America [reject putative synonyms] (the poems are Claude McKay's "America," Allan Ginsberg's "America," and Langston Hughes's "I, Too.")
  - The speaker of a sonnet claims to stand within the walls of this place "with not a shred of terror, malice, not a word of jeer" though this place "sinks into my throat her tiger's tooth" and "feeds me bread of bitterness." Another speaker asks this place such questions as "When will you be worthy of

[TM3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: African American newspapers [prompt on papers; prompt on "journalism" or "news"]
  - Philip Alexander Bell used the slogan "Equality Under the Law" for a California business in this industry named for an elevator.
  - Robert L.
  - Vann led a business in this industry later acquired by Robert Sengstacke , who created a national organization for them.
  - A business in this industry owned by Robert S.
  - Abbott began an annual "Bud Billiken Parade" in Chicago.
  - Alex and Louis Manly abandoned their business in this industry after the building was (*) destroyed during the Wilmington Insurrection of 1898.
  - Martin Delany co-created a business in this industry in Rochester that opposed slavery.
  - A business in this industry called The Defender often featured writing from Langston Hughes and reports from Ida B.
  - Wells.
  - For 10 points, name this industry which included Frederick Douglass's weekly North Star.

[TM4] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: dreams [accept a dream deferred; accept Montage of a Dream Deferred; accept The Dream Keeper]
  - A poem titled for these things compares "life" to a "broken-winged bird / that cannot fly" and a "barren field" without these things.
  - The lines "Good morning, daddy!
  - Ain't you heard?" open and close a long poem titled for a "Montage" of one of these things.
  - A collection titled for a "Keeper" of these things included the poems "I, Too" and (*) "Mother to Son." It is hypothesized that one of these things "crust[s] and sugar[s] over" "like a syrupy sweet" in a 1951 poem in which it also "fester[s] like a sore." Potential answers to a question about one of

[TM5] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: the revolution [accept "Song of the Revolution" or "Good Morning Revolution" or "The Revolution Will Not Be Televised"]
  - In a poem, the song of one of these events is "Weaving from the earth its bright red banner / For the masses of the hands to unfurl".
  - Another poem titled for one of these events lists Germany, China, and Poland as among the places that will "Sign it" on a day when "no one will be hungry, cold, oppressed".
  - That Langston Hughes poem addresses one of these events as "the very best friend / I ever had" and is titled "Good Morning [one of these events]".
  - A different poem titled for one of these events lists "a dove in your bedroom, the tiger in your tank, or the giant in your toilet bowl" as things that you "will not have to worry about".
  - In that poem, one of these events "will not (*) be right back after a message about a white tornado, white lightning, or white people".
  - That spoken-word poem claims that one of these events "will not star Natalie Adams and Steve McQueen" and "will not be brought to you by Xerox".
  - For 10 points, what title event of a Gil Scott-Heron work "will not be televised"?

[TM6] 2024 JORDU (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pithecanthropus Erectus
  - After the release of this album, Celia Zaentz mailed a copy of it to Langston Hughes after he had written glowingly in the Chicago Defender about the artist's Newport Jazz Festival set.
  - Julio de Diego, the father-in-law of its artist's manager Morris Eagle, designed this album's surrealist cover.
  - This album was released the year after Atlantic began recording jazz under Nesuhi (nuh-SOO-he) Ertegun.
  - Jackie McLean's bar fight with this album's artist and his subsequent arrest for heroin possession caused him to be banned from the (*) Jazz Workshop.
  - The long jams performed by this album's artist at the Cafe Bohemia inspired its final track "Love Chant," while musique concrete inspired its cover of "A Foggy Day." For 10 points, name this 1956 debut album by Charles Mingus, titled for the former scientific name of Java Man.

[TM7] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Johannesburg [or Joburg; accept Sophiatown until read, but prompt afterwards; prompt on Springs] (The short story in the first line is "The Suit" by Can Themba. The Drum writers are Bloke Modisane, Lewis Nkosi, and Todd Matshikiza.)
  - In a short story set in this city, Philemon humiliates his adulterous wife Matilda by forcing her to treat the suit that her lover left behind like a real person.
  - A baboon terrorizes this city in the story "Something Out There." Langston Hughes was a pen pal of many writers for this city's Drum magazine, such as an actor nicknamed "Bloke," a journalist who composed a jazz opera about the boxer King Kong, and the novelist of Mating Birds.
  - In a story set in this city, a golfer watches an old man collapse while carrying what he thought was his son's (*) coffin.
  - An author from a suburb of this city outlined "How [her country's] Censorship Works" in an essay whose title asks, "What Happened to" one of her novels.
  - That author, who was part of this city's Sophiatown Renaissance, wrote the short story "Six Feet of the Country." For 10 points, name this city home to the author of Burger's Daughter, Nadine Gordimer.

[TM8] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: musicians [accept jazz musicians; accept blues musicians; accept singers; accept piano players, saxophonists, or other players of particular instruments; prompt on bluesologist] (The first poem is "The Cat and the Saxophone" by Langston Hughes; the second clue refers to Gil Scott-Heron, who called himself a "bluesologist.")
  - A poem set at 2 AM alternates the all-caps lines of a person with this profession with a terse conversation that includes the lines "Say!...
  - Yes?...
  - I'm your... sweetie, ain't I?" A poet who aligned himself with this profession as a certain "-ologist" declared that two of them will "wash your troubles / ... your troubles away!" While observing a person with this profession, the speaker of a poem rhymes "the other night" and "the pale dull pallor

[TM9] 2024 ACF Fall (2024) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Harlem [accept "Harlem Sweeties"; accept "Harlem Shadows"; accept Harlem Renaissance; prompt on Sugar Hill before mention, prompt on New York City or NYC]
  - A poem titled for this place describes a "peach skinned girlie" and a "honey-gold baby" before calling this place "luscious, delicious, fine Sugar Hill." Another poem titled for this place describes the "timid little feet of clay" of prostitutes who are "wandering from street to street." This place 
  - Another poem titled for this place asks, "does it stink like rotten meat?" as a response to the question "what happens to a dream deferred?" For 10 points, Langston Hughes and other Black poets participated in a "Renaissance" named for what New York neighborhood?

[TM10] 2023 SHAWM Packets (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: William Grant Still
  - This composer called for members of the string orchestra to percussively strike their instruments in his Danzas de Panama.
  - The first American opera performed by the New York City Opera was this composer's work about the Haitian Revolution, (*) Troubled Island, which had a libretto written both by his future wife Verna Arvey and Langston Hughes.
  - George Gershwin's "I Got Rhythm" may have stolen from the scherzo of this composer's first symphony, which features a banjo.
  - For ten points, name this composer of the Afro-American Symphony.

[TM11] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: South Africa
  - In one poem from this country, the narrator asks "why you did not or could not give answer when Langston Hughes who wondered as he wandered asked what happens to a dream deferred" and begins "An omelette cannot be unscrambled".
  - That Poet Laureate of "No Serenity Here" from this country was rapper Earl Sweatshirt's father.
  - In a novel by another author from this country, the stray Katy is put down at (*) Bev Shaw's dog pound after living at a farm co-owned by Petrus.
  - An affair with the student Melanie Isaacs causes the protagonist to move to his daughter Lucy's farm.
  - For 10 points, name this home country of Disgraced author J.M Coetzee.

[TM12] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Cuba [or Republic of Cuba Republica de Cuba] (The first sentence refers to "Mujer Negra" by Nancy Morejon.)
  - An author from this country alternates stanzas with singular lines like "I rebelled" and "I trudged forward" in a poem that states "But never have I forgotten the first seagull I glimpsed." In a poem from this country, two men "both of the same stature" embrace under the "high stars" and "shout.
  - And dream.
  - And weep.
  - And sing." "Songoro Cosongo" is one of the onomatopoeic poems that an author wrote imitating the rhythms of this country's music after a 1930 meeting with his future translator, (*) Langston Hughes.
  - A white ancestor and a Black ancestor speak the lines "I am dying" and "I tire" in a poem by that author from this country, "Ballad of My Two Grandfathers." Another poet from this country wrote a collection that includes "If You've Seen a Mount of Sea Foam" and "I am a Sincere Man." For 10 points, n

[TM13] 2023 CREEK+ (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: dreams [accept "a dream deferred" or "Dream Boogie" or Montage of a Dream Deferred]
  - The speaker of a poem titled for these things asks the reader to "listen closely" to "feet beating out" a mistaken "happy beat." The "boogie-woogie rumble" of one of these things is described in a poem from a collection titled for a "Montage" of these things.
  - These things title a poem which compares life to "a barren field frozen with snow" and a (*) "broken-winged bird." The question "does it explode" ends a poem in which the speaker asks if one of these things stinks "like rotten meat" or dries up "like a raisin in the sun." For 10 points, the poem "Ha

[TM14] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lorraine (Vivian)  Hansberry
  - This author provided the subtitles "A Little Camp on a Great Camp" and "A Bit of Whimsy" for a short play about Mary and Poopoo that parodies Waiting for Godot , titled The Arrival of Mr Todog .
  - In a play by this author, Alton Scales manipulates the title character during an election in Greenwich Village, to make him endorse Wally O'Hara.
  - In another play by this author, one character dreams of owning a garden and says that her (*) houseplant is as "close as [she] ever got" to that dream.
  - In a play by this author of The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window , the student Joseph Asagai courts Beneatha.
  - Walter considers an ofier from Karl Lindner after he tries to move into Clybourne Park in a play by this author that takes its name from Langston Hughes' poem "Harlem." For 10 points, name this playwright of A Raisin in the Sun .

[TM15] 2023 CLEAN (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer:  America [accept the  United States of America] (The first and third lines refer to Claude McKay's "America.")
  - The speaker of a poem titled opens by describing how this place "feeds me the bread of bitterness / and sinks into my throat her tiger's tooth." Another poem titled for this place describes "the rape and rot of graft, and stealth, and lies." The speaker of a poem titled for this place confesses "I l
  - " in an italicized section.
  - The speaker of a poem that opens with a declaration about this place says that (*) "they'll see how beautiful I am / And be ashamed-" after lamenting that "They send me to eat in the kitchen." A poem that asks "Let it be the dream it used to be" is titled "Let [this place] be [this place] again." Fo

[TM16] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: New York City [or NYC] (The unnamed novels are, in order, Home to Harlem, Harlem Shuffle, and Passing.)
  - The boys Slumber, Rags, and Willie Dozier travel alone from Alabama to this city in the children's novel Sad-Faced Boy.
  - After deserting his post, the ex-soldier Jake pursues a prostitute named Felice in this city, where the furniture salesman Ray Carney gets caught up in his cousin's hotel heist.
  - A novel in this city ends with Clare falling out of a window at a party with her childhood friend Irene.
  - A speaker in this city likes (*) "a pipe for a Christmas present" and "Bessie, bop, or Bach" after being told to "Go home and write a page tonight" in the poem "Theme for English B." A poem titled for a place in this city asks, "What happens to a dream deferred?" For 10 points, name this American ci

[TM17] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: mothers [or moms; accept "the mother"; accept "A Bronzeville Mother Loiters in Mississippi. Meanwhile, a Mississippi Mother Burns Bacon"; accept "Jessie Mitchell's Mother"; prompt on parents or women]
  - The "ballooning body" of one of these people is likened to a "stretched yellow rag" in a poem narrated by Jessie Mitchell.
  - In a ballad on the death of Emmett Till, one of these people "loiters in Mississippi" while another "burns bacon." One of these people finds a shoe among "bits of glass and brick" at the end of Dudley Randall's "Ballad of Birmingham." One of these people says "even in my deliberateness I was not del
  - In another poem, one of these people describes "a-climbin' on" a path with tacks and splinters and says "Life for me ain't been no crystal stair." For 10 points, a Langston Hughes poem is addressed from what type of person to a son?

[TM18] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Roma [or Romani; accept gitanos or Romancero Gitano; accept Cale; prompt on the derogatory term gypsies or Gypsy Ballads or "The Gypsy and the Wind"]
  - A poet who likened these people to "sewing needles or hydraulic landscapes" wrote a poem in which one of them "[plays] her parchment moon" as the wind chases her.
  - These people come "through the olive groves... bronzed and dreamy" to "[cry] loudly... within the forge" in a translation by Langston Hughes.
  - In another poem, two friends climb to a balcony to see one of these people with "eyes of cold silver" swing from an "icicle of moon." A collection titled for these people that draws on their (*) "deep song" includes a "romance" repetitively titled for the moon and a poem that opens "Green, how I wan

[TM19] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: streets [or roads; accept sidewalks, crosswalks, or curbs; accept in front of shop fronts or store fronts but reject "shops" or "stores"; accept Wall Street or Abbey Road; accept zebra crossings; accept street photography; prompt on cities or urban environments or equivalents; prompt on crossings]
  - Rodney sets off a jet of water in one of these places in a sequence from Roy DeCarava and Langston Hughes's photobook The Sweet Flypaper of Life.
  - The artist stands in this sort of place, staring ahead with her camera held before her torso, in many of the self-portraits of Vivian Maier, whose work is part of a genre named for this sort of place that Bill Cunningham also practiced.
  - One of these places titles a photo in which dark rectangles loom above (*) small people with long shadows, the most famous work by Paul Strand.
  - This type of place names the photo genre focused on candid depictions of public life.
  - Iain Macmillan took a 1969 photo of one of these places near the Apple Records building.
  - For 10 points, name this sort of place that four men walk across on that Beatles album cover.

[TM20] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: A Raisin in the Sun
  - The writing of this play was financed by the hit song "Cindy, Oh Cindy" and it was adapted into a Tony-winning musical by Judd Woldin.
  - A woman in this play declares "with feminine vengeance" that love is not enough for women just because "that's what it says in all the novels that men write." A name that means "one for whom bread is not enough" is given to a woman in this play who switches to a natural hair style after meeting a (*
  - Willy Harris steals life insurance money originally intended to be invested in a liquor store in this play, which centers on the Younger family's attempts to move to a white neighborhood of Chicago.
  - A line from a Langston Hughes poem titles, for 10 points, what play by Lorraine Hansberry?

[TM21] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Harlem [or "Harlem Sweeties"; or "Harlem Shadows"; or Harlem Renaissance; prompt on Manhattan; prompt on New York City or NYC] (The poems are, in order, "Harlem Sweeties" by Hughes, "Harlem Shadows" by McKay, and "Harlem" by Hughes.)
  - In a poem titled for this place, the speaker describes a "honey-gold baby / sweet enough to eat." That poem calls part of this place "luscious, / Delicious, fine" and is titled for this place's "Sweeties." Another poem titled for this location describes seeing "the shapes of girls who pass / to bend
  - A poem titled for this place asks if an entity "crust[s] and sugar[s] over / like a (*) syrupy sweet?" or "stink[s] like rotten meat?" A poem titled for this place asks "what happens to a dream deferred?" For 10 points, name this neighborhood where poets like Claude McKay and Langston Hughes partici

[TM22] 2022 Boilermaker Spring Novice (2022) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: the Harlem Renaissance [or the New Negro Movement]
  - Poems from this movement were promoted by Jessie Fauset and Alain Locke.
  - A seminal work in this movement is a sonnet based on a firsthand account of the Red Summer which describes being "pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back!" A poem from this movement describes a man who "slept like a rock or a man that's dead" in a prominent example of (*) jazz poetry.
  - Poems of this movement were published in The Crisis, such as Claude McKay's "If We Must Die." A poet from this movement wrote "The Weary Blues" and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers." For 10 points, name this American cultural movement spearheaded by Black authors such as Langston Hughes.

[TM23] 2022 20th-21st Century Literature Packet (2022) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Answer: mules [accept mule-talking or Mule Bone or Mules and Men]
  - A form of verbal one-upmanship named for the "talking" of these animals features in a play in which Methodists and Baptists are divided after Jim hits Dave with an object taken from one of them.
  - In a novel, Sam, Lige, and Walter joke that women use the bony sides of one of these animals as a washing board, then reveal its owner only feeds it a teacup-full of corn every day.
  - A play titled for this animal's "bone" led to the falling out of its two authors after one claimed the other, (*) Langston Hughes, didn't write any of it.
  - A mayor who buys one of these animals for $5 is told he is like a king because he has the power to "free things." A girl is told by her grandmother that black women are like these animals after she kisses a man under a pear tree.
  - A sickly yellow one of these animals owned by Matt Bonner is bought and freed by Jody Starks.
  - For 10 points, name these animals that, in the title of an ethnography by Zora Neale Hurston, are paired with "men."

[TM24] 2022 20th-21st Century Literature Packet (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "I, too" [accept "yo, tambien"]
  - The author calls Bob Kaufman, LeRoi Jones, and himself "'invisible men' ... amongst the Beats" in a Ted Joans poem whose title follows this two-word phrase with "at the Beginning." While stranded in Genoa, a poet wrote a poem beginning with this phrase on the back of a letter to Alain Locke.
  - A line beginning with these two words has not been said "in this voice / of the platano / and the mango / marimba y bongo,"according to a Julia Alvarez poem.
  - In a poem often titled for these two words, the speaker envisions a "Tomorrow" when others will "be (*) ashamed" after "[seeing] how beautiful I am"; that poem was chosen as an "Epilogue" to the collection The Weary Blues.
  - A Walt Whitman poem about hearing "varied carols" inspired a poem beginning with these two words whose speaker calls himself "the darker brother" who is sent "to eat in the kitchen / When company comes." For 10 points, what two words precede "sing America" in a poem by Langston Hughes?

[TM25] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: I, too
  - These are the first two words in the title of a poem that notes "I know it's been said before, but not in this voice of the platano [PLAH-tah-noh] and the mango," and which appears in an autobiographical essay by Julia Alvarez [HOO-lee-ah ALL-vah-ress].
  - These are the first two words of the line before "I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world" in "Song of Myself." A poem beginning with these two words describes "raw material ... in all its (*) rawness" and decides that there is "a place for the genuine" in the subject after all.
  - Another poem beginning with these two words predicts that "they'll see how beautiful I am and be ashamed" and declares "tomorrow, I'll be at the table when company comes." These are the first two words of Marianne Moore's poem "Poetry." For 10 points, name these two words which precede "am America" 

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Amiable With Big Teeth, a novel about a group of activists from this neighborhood, remained unpublished until 2009 when it was discovered by a graduate student at Columbia University. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harlem [accept Harlem Shadows]):
    Claude McKay wrote about black sex workers in the titular poem from his collection titled for this neighborhood's Shadows. A poem by Langston Hughes titled for this neighborhood asks, "what happens to a dream deferred?"
  Part 2 (ans: "If We Must Die"):
    This poem from Harlem Shadows tells the reader "we'll face the murderous, cowardly pack" and responds "let it not be like hogs" to this poem's title statement.
  Part 3 (ans: France [or French Republic] (The novels are Romance in Marseille and Giovanni's Room.)):
    McKay also wrote a novel titled for a city in this country in which the sailor Lafala falls in love with Alima. In a James Baldwin novel set in this country, the title character strangles his boss after a gay love affair with David.

[BM2] 2024 Purdue IM Housewrite (2024) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A short story by this author describes the single mother Janet's visit to her dying father, where she quizzes him on the title celestial objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alice Munro [or Alice Ann Laidlaw Munro]):
    Name this Canadian short story author of the collection The Moons of Jupiter. Her other collections include The Beggar Maid and Dance of the Happy Shades.
  Part 2 (ans: fruit [accept "Half a Grapefruit"]):
    In the third story from The Beggar Maid, Rose attempts to hide her lower class status by claiming to have eaten one of these foods for breakfast. In the poem "Goblin Market" by Christina Rosetti, the goblins shout "Come buy, come buy" while selling this general kind of food.
  Part 3 (ans: pianoforte):
    In the story "Dance of the Happy Shades," the narrator attends a recital where a girl with Down syndrome plays the title piece on this instrument. The Langston Hughes poem "The Weary Blues" describes a man "[w]ith his ebony hands on each ivory key" making this instrument "moan with melody."

[BM3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by the author of "God Has Pity on Kindergarten Children," a shepherd who is one of these people searches for his goat as the narrator searches for his son on the mountain opposite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arabs):
    Name these people. In another poem, the speaker repeatedly commands to "put it on record" that he is one of these people in between catalogues of his distinguishing features.
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    The author of "An Arab Shepherd Is Searching for His Goat on Mount Zion," Yehuda Amichai, was described as "a challenge to me" by this Palestinian poet, who repeated the refrain "I am an Arab" in his poem "Identity Card."
  Part 3 (ans: a river [accept "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" or A River Dies of Thirst]):
    Amichai describes the Arab Shepherd's hands as these features, which title a Darwish collection about how one of these features "Dies of Thirst." Langston Hughes wrote a poem in which "The Negro Speaks of" examples of these features like the Congo and the Euphrates.

[BM4] 2024 Maryland Spring (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem ends with the speaker declaring: "Like men we'll face the murderous, cowardly pack, / Pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "If We Must Die"):
    Identify this sonnet by Claude McKay which says of the title action "let it not be like hogs / Hunted and penned in an inglorious spot."
  Part 2 (ans: Gwendolyn Brooks (That poem is "We Real Cool.")):
    McKay's "If We Must Die" was cited as "one of the most famous poems ever written" by this poet, who wrote a poem describing pool players at the Golden Shovel who "lurk late," "strike straight," "jazz June," and "die soon."
  Part 3 (ans: Harlem Renaissance):
    Along with Countee Cullen and Langston Hughes, McKay was a leading poet of this African-American cultural golden age named for a New York City neighborhood.

[BM5] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: Langston Hughes may have introduced the author of Gypsy Ballads to Romare Bearden, who would go on to create a series of paintings inspired by this poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter"):
    Name this poem that repeats "at five in the afternoon" in its section "Goring and Death."
  Part 2 (ans: "Sleepwalking Ballad"[or "Romance Sonambulo"]):
    Hughes also translated the collection that contains this poem. This poem describes "big hoarfrost stars" after opening "Green, how I want you green."
  Part 3 (ans: Frederico Garcia Lorca):
    This poet wrote "Romance Sonambulo" and "Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter." Hughes' translation of his play Blood Wedding has been lost.

[BM6] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Referring to God's inscrutable ways, the speaker of this poem notes that man will never "understand / What awful brain compels His awful hand." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Yet Do I Marvel"):
    Name this sonnet that ends with the speaker pondering God's decision "to make a poet black, and bid him sing!"
  Part 2 (ans: Harlem Renaissance ):
    "Yet Do I Marvel" is by Countee Cullen, a member of this New York-based cultural movement that also included his friends Alain Locke and Langston Hughes.
  Part 3 (ans: Amy Lowell [or Amy Lawrence Lowell; prompt on Lowell] (Cullen's poem is "For Amy Lowell."Lowell's poem is "Patterns.")):
    In an epigraph written for this author by Cullen, this poet questions God why "all flesh" bears the label:"Made to die!" A poem by this author ends with the question "Christ! What are patterns for?"

[BM7] 2024 ACF Fall (2024) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem in this form opens with the line "From that frozen niche the men have put you" and was written for the death of Romelio Ureta. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sonnets [accept Sonnets of Death or Sonetos de la Muerte; accept One Hundred Love Sonnets or Cien sonetos de amor]):
    Name this poetic form that Pablo Neruda wrote "One Hundred Love" versions of. Petrarch and Shakespeare often wrote in this 14-line poetic form.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriela Mistral [or Lucial Godoy Alcayaga]):
     Sonnets of Death was written by this only female member of the Great Four of Chilean Poetry. This author of "Decalogue of the Artist" became the first Latin American winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature.
  Part 3 (ans: mothers [or moms; accept "Mother to Son"; prompt on parents or family members]):
    Mistral wrote the collection Tala after the death of one of these figures. The statement "Life for me ain't been no crystal stair" is included in a Langston Hughes poem titled for one of these figures.

[BM8] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the influence of the "forgotten" British author Ouida (WEE-duh) on American literature, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jack London):
    This author claimed that reading Ouida's novel Signa at age eight led him to become a successful writer. This dog fan wrote The Sea-Wolf and The Call of the Wild.
  Part 2 (ans: The Age of Innocence (by Edith Wharton)):
    It's mentioned in passing that the protagonist of this novel has read Ouida. A New York lawyer in this novel does not consummate his affair with his wife's cousin, a woman who is separated from a Polish count.
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Van Vechten):
    This Ouida promoter included a character in their novel The Blind Bow-boy who only wants to read her novels. This writer patronized and photographed Harlem Renaissance authors such as Langston Hughes.

[BM9] 2023 Canadian Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem by this author claims that "life for me ain't been no crystal stair". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]):
    Name this author of "Mother to Son". The speaker of another poem by this author asks if a concept "just sags like a heavy load. / Or does it explode?"
  Part 2 (ans: Harlem [accept the Harlem Renaissance]):
    In a Langston Hughes poem titled for this location, the speaker asks, "What happens to a dream deferred?" This New York neighbourhood spawned a 1920s African American literary movement known as its "Renaissance".
  Part 3 (ans: Claude McKay):
    This Harlem Renaissance author described being "pressed to the wall" by "the murderous, cowardly pack" in the sonnet "If We Must Die". This Jamaican-American author also wrote the novel Home to Harlem.

[BM10] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following related to Black conservative George Schuyler, whose autobiography is fittingly titled Black and Conservative, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: racial mountain [accept "The Negro Artist and the Racial Mountain"]):
    Schuyler's essay "The Negro-Art Hokum" accused "the Aframerican" of being "merely a lampblacked Anglo-Saxon," prompting a response by Langston Hughes titled for "The Negro Artist and [this two-word phrase]." Hughes allegorizes the "urge within the race to whiteness" to this allegorical obstacle.
  Part 2 (ans: W.E.B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois]):
    A few months after Schuyler and Hughes' essays were published, this author gave the speech "Criteria of Negro Art." Though he later co-authored The Negro in the South with Booker T. Washington, their feud over racial assimilationism inspired a critique in this author's The Souls of Black Folk.
  Part 3 (ans: Zora Neale Hurston):
    George Schuyler is frequently compared to this author, whom John McWhorter hailed as "Black people's favorite Black conservative." Mule Bone was a collaboration between Hughes and this author, who was controversial for endorsing Robert Taft and opposing Brown v. Board of Education.

[BM11] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Two collections of Selected Poems, respectively translated by Doris Dana and Langston Hughes, appeared after this poet's 1957 death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriela Mistral [or Lucila Godoy Alcayaga]):
    Name this romantic partner of Dana. Hughes's book opens with "Cradle Songs" drawn from this poet's Desolacion.
  Part 2 (ans: Nicolas Guillen [or Nicolas Cristobal Guillen Batista] (The latter poem is Sensemaya.)):
    "Li'l Manuel" is critiqued for "all data English you used to know" in Hughes's Black vernacular translation of a poem from this author's Motives de son. Eartha Kitt recorded a reading of Hughes's translation of this other Black poet's "Chant for Killing a Snake."
  Part 3 (ans: (Republic of) Haiti [or Republique d'Haiti; or Repiblik d Ayiti]):
    Hughes translated Masters of the Dew after the death of author Jacques Roumain, a Marxist from this home country of Edwidge Danticat ("dah-tee-KAH"). A revolution in this non-Cuban country is the setting for Alejo Carpentier's The Kingdom of This World.

[BM12] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem in this form that describes a "murderous, cowardly pack" was read on the floor of Congress after the events of the Red Summer of 1919. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sonnets [accept Shakespearean sonnet]):
    Name this 14-line poetic form of Claude McKay's "If We Must Die," which is modeled on those written by Shakespeare.
  Part 2 (ans: singing [accept "I, too, sing America"]):
    Countee Cullen's sonnet "Yet Do I Marvel" ends by questioning why God would "make a poet black and bid him" do this action. A Langston Hughes poem declares that "I, too" do this action.
  Part 3 (ans: Cane (by Jean Toomer)):
    A sonnet from this Harlem Renaissance collection warns "Boll-weevil's coming" for the title "November cotton flower." This collection includes short stories like "Karintha" and ends with the play "Kabnis."

[BM13] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The dying Soupspoon Wise narrates his encounter with a famous real-life musician who played this genre in Walter Mosley's novel RL's Dream. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blues [or the blues; accept Delta blues; accept "The Weary Blues"]):
    Name this genre of the song that lends its title to James Baldwin's novel Tell Me How Long the Train's Been Gone. The speaker hears a man playing a "drowsy syncopated tune" in a poem titled for a "weary" type of this genre.
  Part 2 (ans: Beat Generation [or the Beats; or Beat Poets]):
    The life of blues musician Lightnin' Hopkins is fictionalized in J. J. Phillips's novel Mojo Hand, which has been called a black female novel from this movement. A member of this movement wrote the novels Big Sur and Visions of Cody.
  Part 3 (ans: Not without Laughter (Hughes defined the blues as "hopeless weariness mixed with an absurdly incongruous laughter.")):
    The bluesman W. C. Handy is adored by characters like Hagar and Sandy in this novel by Langston Hughes. The title of this novel set in 1910s Kansas references its author's definition of the blues as "hopeless weariness" mixed with another action.

[BM14] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A 2017 documentary about this author takes its title from her claim, "One cannot live with sighted eyes and feeling heart and not know or react to the miseries which afflict this world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lorraine Hansberry (That play is The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window.)):
    Name this author who wrote a play in which the title denizen of Greenwich Village dislikes the politician Wally O'Hara, who is supported by the activist Alton Scales.
  Part 2 (ans: A Raisin in the Sun):
    Hansberry is best known for this play about the Younger family, which takes its title from a Langston Hughes poem.
  Part 3 (ans: Francois-Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture ("too-SAN looh-ver-TURE") [accept either underlined name; Toussaint; accept "Mister Toussan"]):
    At the time of her death, Hansberry was working on an unfinished "Musical Drama in 7 Scenes" titled for this historical figure. In a short story by Ralph Ellison, the boy Buster tells Riley an embroidered history of this man's exploits before they both decide to steal some cherries.

[BM15] 2022 ACF Fall (2022) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author, he describes himself as "the darker brother" who "they send...to eat in the kitchen." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes] (The second poem is "The Weary Blues.")):
    Name this author who described how he "sing[s] America" in "I, Too." Another poem by this author describes hearing a singer on Lenox Avenue play "a drowsy syncopated tune."
  Part 2 (ans: Harlem [accept Harlem Renaissance]):
    Langston Hughes participated in this upper Manhattan neighborhood's namesake "Renaissance" in the 1920s and '30s.
  Part 3 (ans: Claude McKay [or Festus Claudius McKay]):
    This Jamaican-born Harlem Renaissance poet declared "If we must die," let it be "pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back." This author also wrote the novel Home to Harlem.

[BM16] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's "informal autobiography" was collated by Robert Nemiroff and describes a court case where her father argued against a covenant barring him from buying or leasing land. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lorraine Hansberry):
    Name this author who created a writer from Greenwich Village who is encouraged to support the corrupt politician Wally O'Hara in The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window.
  Part 2 (ans: A Raisin in the Sun):
    Lorraine Hansberry was inspired by the court case Hansberry v. Lee to write this play about the Younger family moving into a Chicago suburb. This play is titled for a Langston Hughes line.
  Part 3 (ans: Lynn Nottage (The second play is Ruined.)):
    Godfrey Crump moves to Brooklyn in this author's Crumbs from the Table of Joy, a title that is also borrowed from Langston Hughes. In a play by this author, the bar owner Mama Nadi gives up a diamond to help Sophie.

[BM17] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: An author from this state describes a message reading "Popeye sits in thunder, unthought of" in his "Farm Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York):
    Name this state that shares its name with a poetry school whose members included Frank O'Hara. Langston Hughes was involved with an earlier poetic "Renaissance" centered in this state.
  Part 2 (ans: "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror"):
    Another member of the New York school was John Ashbery, who wrote this poem to head a collection discussing his homosexuality. A painter draws "the right hand / bigger than the head" of this poem's title object.
  Part 3 (ans: trees):
    Ashbery described "A canvas on which emerges a chorus of smiles" in a poem titled after some of these objects. Ogden Nash compared the "loveliness" of a billboard to one of these objects in a play on a Joyce Kilmer poem.

[BM18] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: This director worked with the Federal Theatre Project's Negro Theatre Unit to stage an all-black adaptation of Macbeth set in Haiti that was dubbed "voodoo." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orson Welles [or George Orson Welles]):
    Name this director whose Mercury Theatre went "on the air" for its many acclaimed radio dramas.
  Part 2 (ans: Wilson [accept Frank Wilson or August Wilson] (That is the Pittsburgh Cycle.)):
    The first production for the Negro Theatre Unit was Walk Together, Children by a playwright with this surname. A later playwright with this surname wrote a "cycle" of ten plays, one for each decade of the 20th century.
  Part 3 (ans: Harlem [accept Harlem Renaissance]):
    The Negro Theater Unit premiered those plays at the Lafayette Theater in this New York neighborhood, where writer Langston Hughes was part of a 1920s literary "Renaissance."

[BM19] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet describes a time when "I would be more or less insane... the news would pour out of various devices" because "I lived in the first century of world wars." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Muriel Rukeyser):
    Name this author who described a "gift" that "if you refuse... you choose death of the spirit," but accepting it is "daring to live for the impossible" in "To be a Jew in the Twentieth Century."
  Part 2 (ans: Icarus [accept "Waiting for Icarus"] (The other poem is "Musee des Beaux Arts.")):
    The phrases "He said" and "I remember" begin many lines in a Rukeyser poem named "Waiting for" this man. Another poem about this man's death begins "About suffering they were never wrong, / The old Masters."
  Part 3 (ans: Harlem [accept East Harlem; accept Harlem Renaissance; prompt on New York City by asking "which neighborhood?"]):
    Rukeyser described a hot-dog vendor in "The Ballad of Orange and Grape," which is set in this location. Alain Locke was "the Dean" of this location's namesake Renaissance, which included Langston Hughes.

[BM20] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author described how, when "riding in old Baltimore, / Heart-filled, Head-filled with glee," a man poked out his tongue and called him the N-word in his poem "Incident." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Countee Cullen [or Countee LeRoy Porter]):
    Name this author who, in another poem, wonders "at this curious thing" that God would "make a poet black, and bid him sing!" in his poem "Yet Do I Marvel."
  Part 2 (ans: The Weary Blues):
    Cullen admonished Langston Hughes not to become a "racial artist" in a critical review of this collection. The speaker of this collection's title poem describes hearing "a drowsy syncopated tune" on Lennox Avenue.
  Part 3 (ans: Jessie Fauset [or Jessie Redmon Fauset]):
    This literary editor for The Crisis helped launch the careers of both Cullen and Hughes. She wrote about Angela Murray, who passes as white, in her novel Plum Bun.

[BM21] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: One poem from this literary movement contains the line "I like a pipe for a Christmas present, / or records--Bessie, bop, or Bach." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harlem Renaissance):
    Name this 1920s literary movement that included the author of "Theme for English B" as well as the Jamaica-born author Claude McKay.
  Part 2 (ans: Langston Hughes):
    "Theme for English B" was written by this Black American poet who asked "what happens to a dream deferred?" in his poem "Harlem."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Weary Blues"):
    This other Langston Hughes poem opens by discussing a man "Droning a drowsy syncopated tune," before later stating that the title music "echoed through [the] head" of a tired musician.

[BM22] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This place appears twice in the title of a poem that contains the questions "Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark?" and "Who said the free? Not me?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: America [or the United States of America; or USA; accept "Let America Be America Again" or "I, Too, Sing America"]):
    Name this place. The narrator of another poem shows his loyalty to this place by promising to "be at the table / When company comes."
  Part 2 (ans: Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]):
    This author of "Let America Be America Again" and "I, Too, Sing America" was a major figure of the Harlem Renaissance. His poem "Harlem" asks "What happens to a dream deferred?"
  Part 3 (ans: "Theme for English B"):
    In this Langston Hughes poem, the speaker writes "I am the only colored student in my class" after an "instructor" tells him "Go home and write / a page tonight."

[BM23] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A book by this critic documenting the history of women's writing in America highlights largely forgotten authors of the 1850s such as Harriet Elizabeth Spofford and Maria Susanna Cummins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elaine Showalter [or Elaine Cottler]):
    Name this critic whose project of analyzing literature in a "woman's frame" led her to coin the term "gynocriticism." She discussed the depiction of hysteria in The Female Malady.
  Part 2 (ans: a jury [accept "A Jury of Her Peers"]):
    Showalter's history of women's writing in American is named for one of these groups of people, and shares its name with a Susan Glaspell story adapted from her play Trifles.
  Part 3 (ans: renaissances [accept American Literary Renaissance; accept Harlem Renaissance]):
    Showalter argues that women's writing in the 1850s should be considered to be among the contributions to the first one of these periods in American literature. Langston Hughes and Countee Cullen were part of one of these periods named for Harlem.

[BM24] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote that "altars of money... best describe the detours of grace" in a poem that ends after the speaker instructs the reader, "You must make your own map." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joy Harjo [or Joy Foster; or Joy Harjo-Sapulpa]):
    Name this poet of "A Map to the Next World" and "She Had Some Horses." She published the collection An American Sunrise after taking a certain position in 2019.
  Part 2 (ans: United States Poet Laureate [or Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress]):
    Joy Harjo became the first Native American to hold this position after she was appointed to it in 2019 by the Library of Congress.
  Part 3 (ans: kitchen [accept kitchen table; prompt on table]):
    In a poem by Harjo, the speaker speculates, "Perhaps the world will end" in this location "while we are laughing and crying." The speaker of Langston Hughes's poem "I, Too, Sing America" states that he is sent to this location "when company comes."

[BM25] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A New Yorker article is titled 'watching the Obamas watch [this play]'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Raisin in the Sun):
    Walter tells his sister in this play that she should be a nurse if she wants to 'mess around with sick people' rather than a doctor. That character in this play must choose between her boyfriend George and Joseph Asagai, who tells her to stop straightening her hair.
  Part 2 (ans: Harlem):
    A Raisin in the Sun is a play by Lorraine Hansberry, who took its title from a poem by Langston Hughes, a poet who was part of a black literary movement based in this area of Manhattan.
  Part 3 (ans: Bruce Norris):
    This playwright wrote Clybourne Park, a spin off of A Raisin in the Sun which goes between 1959 and 2009 and examines the effects of white flight and gentrification on the title neighbourhood.
