=== STOCK CLUES: Richard Rogers ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two answers required. A building designed by one of these two architects, the Lloyd's Building, sits across the street from the other's Willis Building. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Norman Foster AND Richard Rogers):
    Name these pioneers of high-tech architecture who met at Yale. These two architects and their future spouses, Su Brumwell and Wendy Cheesman, founded the firm Team 4, which designed the Reliance Controls factory.
  Part 2 (ans: London, England):
    Both the Lloyd's Building and the Willis Building are in this city, where Foster later designed The Gherkin.
  Part 3 (ans: Renzo Piano (The buildings are the Centre Pompidou and The Shard.)):
    After separating from Foster, Rogers collaborated with this architect on a building whose exterior is covered with color-coded tubes. This architect also designed the tallest building in London.

[B2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The magazine Building Design awarded a prize named for one of these things to the ugliest building built in the UK that year. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: carbuncle [accept "monstrous carbuncle"; accept Carbuncle Cup]):
    Name this term coined in an architectural context by King Charles III, who called a proposed modernist extension to the National Gallery a "monstrous" one of these things.
  Part 2 (ans: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe ("meese van der roh") [or Ludwig Mies van der Rohe]):
    This architect's plan for Mansion House Square, a London office tower, was never implemented after Charles called it a "giant glass stump." This German architect coined the maxim "Less is more."
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Rogers [or Richard George Rogers, Baron Rogers of Riverside] (King Charles said, "You have to give this much to the Luftwaffe: when it knocked down our buildings, it didn't replace them with anything more offensive than rubble.")):
    Charles compared this architect's plans for rebuilding Paternoster Square with buildings bombed by the Luftwaffe. This British architect of the costly Millennium Dome, now called the O2, co-designed a French museum with colored piping on the exterior.

[B3] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect designed a structure that resembles a white marquee with twelve yellow support towers, each representing an hour of a clock, to celebrate the importance of Greenwich Mean Time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Rogers [or Richard George Rogers]):
    Name this architect who called for elevators, water pipes, and other useless things to be placed on the exterior of his Lloyd's building. He also designed the Senedd in Wales and the Millenium Dome.
  Part 2 (ans: Paris, France):
    Rogers collaborated with Renzo Piano on the Centre Pompidou, which is located in this European capital city. A large iron lattice tower was built for the 1889 World's Fair held here.
  Part 3 (ans: World Trade Center complex [or Ground Zero; or WTC]):
    Rogers, Fumihiko Maki, and Norman Foster are among the architects working on this complex of buildings under the supervision of master architect Daniel Liebeskind. This complex includes a memorial called "Reflecting Absence".
