=== STOCK CLUES: Cartier-Bresson ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 33 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson (The Teju Cole essay is "Perfect and Unrehearsed.")
  - An image by this photographer depicting three men riding a canoe in Suzhou Creek is discussed in a 2015 essay by Teju Cole. [PWR]
  - This photographer claimed to have had an epiphany while viewing a Martin Munkacsi photograph of the backs of three naked children running into the surf of Lake Tanganyika. [PWR]
  - This photographer captured an image of people pushing against each other to buy gold from a bank during the Kuomintang's final days. [PWR]
  - In an image by this photographer, a staircase winds down next to a blurry (*) cyclist in motion. [PWR]
  - The name "RAILOWSKY" appears twice in the background of an image by this photographer depicting a man in the air having leapt off a ladder floating in a puddle.
  - For 10 points, Behind the Gare Saint-Lazare is a work by what French photographer who sought to capture the "decisive moment?" [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson
  - Alberto Giacometti ("jacque"-a-metty) strides behind one of his Walking Man sculptures in an image by this artist. [PWR]
  - A man raises his hands while another looks on at a funeral pyre in one work by this artist, who showed the cremated man leaving a shrine alive just days earlier. [PWR]
  - This artist photographed some of the last imperial eunuchs in China, part of his series about "The Last Days of the Kuomintang." Henri Matisse designed the cover for a book by this artist which has a title that translates to (*) "images on the sly." This photographer, who took photos of India immediately after Gandhi's death, shot a man jumping over a ladder into a puddle in Behind Gare St. [PWR]
  - Lazare.
  - For 10 points, identify this French photographer who developed the idea of capturing a "decisive moment." [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson
  - This person depicted railings and dark-clad women forming a Z-shaped composition in a photograph of Aquila, Italy. [PWR]
  - This person showed a man in raincoat walking with a child while dwarfed by a giant poster of Lenin in a similar pose. [PWR]
  - This person showed the subject unconsciously imitating the pose of his own sculptures in a portrait of Alberto Giacometti. [PWR]
  - That portrait, along with his photographs of a (*) man jumping over a puddle near Gare Saint Lazare and a cyclist passing below a flight of stairs, illustrate this photographer's concept of "the Decisive Moment". [PWR]
  - A co-founder of the Magnum collective, for 10 points, name this French photographer. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson
  - In one untitled photo by this photographer, a man in a suit rests his right hand on the back of his hip and looks at a newsstand on the right while sitting on the lap of another man who pulls at the former man's tie with both hands.
  - Four shirtless men look forward while holding or restraining a topless woman with a pained look on her face in one of this photographer's images of a Barong Dance, which appeared in a book written by Antoine Artaud, The Dances of Bali.
  - A large crowd of people intertwined in arms and legs dominates another photo this photographer took of a rush to purchase gold just before the Communist takeover in Shanghai during his time as the Far Eastern bureau chief for Magnum.
  - The word RAILOWSKY appears twice in the background of one image by this photographer, in which a man leaps from a horizontal ladder seemingly into a pool of water.
  - For 10 points, Behind the Gare St. [GIVE]
  - Lazare is a photograph by what photographer, known for developing the idea of the "decisive moment"?

[T5] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson
  - A photograph by this artist looks down at a biker on the street from the top of a flight of winding stairs. [PWR]
  - This artist photographed a kid confidently balancing a bottle of champagne in each arm. [PWR]
  - A hole blasted into a wall forms most of the frame of his Children Playing in the Ruins. [PWR]
  - He photographed Gandhi a mere hour before his assassination. [PWR]
  - This artist captured a man mid-stride on a wet street near a disused ladder in his photo Behind the (*) Gare Saint-Lazare. [PWR]
  - Because he documented events like the Spanish and Chinese Civil Wars, he's often considered the father of photojournalism.
  - Armed with his 35mm Leica cameras, this person sought to capture what he called the "decisive moment." For 10 points, name this Frenchman and pioneering candid photographer with a compound last name. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henri Cartier-Bresson
  - This man said all it took to do his job is "one finger, one eye, and two legs." With Robert Capa and two others, he co-founded a company called Magnum.
  - One of his works, depicting a biker zooming past a spiral staircase, is "Hyeres." Henri Matisse drew the cover of a book showing Gandhi's funeral and the founding of Communist China, his The Decisive Moment.
  - He may be more famous for an image of a man skipping over a puddle.
  - For 10 points, name this French pioneer of "street photography" who created "Behind the Gare Saint-Lazare." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Artforum, Greil Marcus wrote about the "irreducible dignity" of this photographer's images of interiors at Graceland, comparing them to Walker Evans's photojournalism of Alabama sharecroppers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Eggleston):
    Name this photographer who depicted three white wires converging on a light fixture in a room painted in the title color in The Red Ceiling.
  Part 2 (ans: gas stations [or filling stations, fuel stations, petrol stations, or service stations; accept Twentysix Gasoline Stations; prompt on stations]):
    Walker Evans also influenced an Eggleston photo taken at one of these businesses, in which a man walks away from the viewer. A pioneering photobook by Ed Ruscha ("roo-SHAY") is titled for capturing Twentysix of these businesses.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    In an interview, Eggleston recalled feeling devastated when this photographer, one of his heroes, told him that "color is bullshit." This French street photographer published the book The Decisive Moment.

[B2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a famous photograph of people with this profession, a few children were allowed to pose at the front of the frame because one repeatedly stole a subject's hat and refused to return it until they were included. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: jazz musicians [prompt on musicians or performers or singers or artists by asking "in what genre?"] (The musician whose hat was stolen was Count Basie.)):
    Name this specific profession of the 57 main subjects of Art Kane's 1958 photograph A Great Day in Harlem. Many widely reproduced images of this profession are drawn from the immense collection of William P. Gottlieb.
  Part 2 (ans: Smithsonian Institution):
    The collection of Herman Leonard, who extensively photographed the mid-20th-century jazz scene, is now in the archives of this institution that operates a group of Washington, D.C. museums like the National Portrait Gallery.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson ("kart-YAY breh-SOHN")):
    Dexter Gordon once referred to music photographer David Redfern as jazz's equivalent of this photographer. This French photographer's image of a man skipping over a puddle illustrates his concept of the "decisive moment."

[B3] 2018 MALA (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: French people quickly got tired of the Daguerreotype, and went on to develop better techniques. Answer some questions about modern French photographers for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    This "Decisive Moment" photographer captured a man jumping into a puddle in his Behind the Gare Saint-Lazare and a man riding a bicycle from the top of a staircase.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Doisneau):
    This other French photojournalism pioneer famously photographed The Kiss by the Town Hall, which was, unfortunately, staged.
  Part 3 (ans: Magnum Photos):
    Cartier-Bresson, along with Robert Capa, founded this photographic agency to spread the works of various artists. Cartier-Bresson invited Doisneau to join it, but he rejected the offer.

[B4] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Name some things about street photography, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    This Frenchman and co-founder of Magnum Photos is considered one of the first documentary photographers. This man titled his book, The Decisive Moment, for the idea that a photographer must have a good instinct for when to take a picture.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City, New York [or NYC; accept Humans of New York or HONY]):
    Contemporary photographer Brandon Stanton is best-known for a blog titled for this city, where he captions photos of individuals, such as cancer patients, prisoners, and Syrian refugees, with thought-provoking quotes. Those photos depict people in this city in such places as Central Park.
  Part 3 (ans: Vivian Maier):
    Another street photographer was this woman who took over 100,000 photographs, mostly in New York and Chicago, while working as a nanny. Since her work was discovered at an auction of her possessions in 2007, it has been featured in countless exhibitions and a documentary film titled Finding [this woman].

[B5] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Berenice Abbott worked to popularize Eugene Atget's (oo-ZHEN aht-ZHAY's) photographs of this city, whose "old" sections he documented in proto-surrealistic images of deserted streets and reflective storefront display windows. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paris):
    Name this city that was modernized by Baron Haussmann, prompting Atget to photograph what was left of its heritage. In a photo taken in this city, a man jumps over a pool of water behind its Gare Saint-Lazare (gahr-sahnt-lah-zar) train station.
  Part 2 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    Behind the Gare Saint-Lazare was shot by this French photographer, who founded Magnum Photos with Robert Capa and several other artists. He used a Leica 35mm ("LIE"-kah "35 millimeter") camera for much of his career.
  Part 3 (ans: The Decisive Moment [or Images a la sauvette; accept Images on the Sly]):
    Cartier-Bresson explained his artistic approach in the title essay of this book; the essay argues that a photographer must be able to recognize and capture specific instants in time when visual elements are in balance.

[B6] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The current hundred franc note features sculptures from this series on one side and its sculptor on the other. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walking Man series [or L'homme qui marche; accept anything similar indicating walking man/men or striding man/men, etc.]):
    Identify this series of sculptures of long, thin figures by Alberto Giacometti, one of which sold for over $100 million at Sotheby's in February 2010.
  Part 2 (ans: Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation; or Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft; or Confederation Suisse; or Confederazione Svizzera; or Confederaziun svizra]):
    Alberto Giacometti was from an Italian-speaking region in this country. Dadaism was born at the Cabaret Voltaire a German-speaking part of this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    Giacometti was friends with this French father of photojournalism, who sought "the decisive moment". A 2005 exhibition organized by Tobia Bezzola placed Walking Man I next to this photographer's Man Jumping.

[B7] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer took the "Magnificent Eleven" photographs during the D-Day landings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Friedmann]):
    Name this Hungarian photographer of The Falling Soldier.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    The Falling Soldier depicts a death during this conflict, which was also depicted in Children Playing in the Ruins. It also inspired Calder's Mercury Fountain and Picasso's Guernica.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    Capa founded Magnum Photos with this French photojournalist, who captured the "decisive moment" in works like Children Playing in the Ruins. Two of his most famous photos depict a bicycle from the top of a staircase and a smug-looking boy holding two wine bottles.

[B8] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some things about photojournalism, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi [or Mahatma Gandhi]):
    Life photographer Margaret Bourke-White photographed this leader at his spinning wheel just hours before he was assassinated by Nathuram Godse.
  Part 2 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    This Frenchman, one of the first photojournalists, captured a man jumping into a puddle in his Behind the Gare Saint-Lazare.
  Part 3 (ans: D-Day landings [or Normandy invasion, prompt on "World War II"]):
    Robert Sargent depicted this event in his photo Into the Jaws of Death. Robert Capa's Magnificent Eleven were pictures of this event that were ruined by the staff of Life magazine.

[B9] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer assisted Jean Renoir on A Day in the Country and The Rules of the Game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    Name this Frenchman, an aficionado of the 35 mm camera, who is considered the father of modern photojournalism. Many of his photographs were published in books like The Decisive Moment and The Face of Asia.
  Part 2 (ans: train station):
    One of Cartier-Bresson's photos shows a man in mid-air as he runs through the rain outside one of these buildings, examples of which include Gare Sant-Lazare in Paris and a 'Grand Central' one in New York.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre (Andor) Kertesz):
    This Hungarian photojournalist won acclaim for his photos of Washington Square Park and used elaborate mirrors to warp images of nudes in his Distortion series.
