=== STOCK CLUES: Alfred the Great ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 30 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 "Questions Based on Wikipedia Links Ophir Sent Me" (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred the Great
  - This translator was once credited with incorporating Ohthere's stories about hunting walruses into a rendition of the Orosius. [PWR]
  - Marie de France claimed that this author's Aesop translations were the source of her Fables. [PWR]
  - This "wise" person's apocryphal "proverbs" are quoted throughout The Owl and the Nightingale.
  - In a preface, this translator claimed to have worked "sometimes word for word, sometimes sense for sense" to translate The (*) Consolation of Philosophy. [PWR]
  - This man is credited with translations of texts "most necessary for all men to know," including a rendition of Pastoral Care by Gregory the Great.
  - Asser's biography of this man doesn't mention him burning a peasant's cakes while on the run from the Danes.
  - For 10 points, name this "great" king of Wessex. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Alfred the Great (His daughter Æthelflæd worked with Edward the Elder to extend the system of burhs.)
  - The Leechbook of Bald offers insight into remedies used by Elias of Jerusalem to treat this ruler, who likely suffered from Crohn's disease.
  - The Ashmolean Museum contains a gold-enclosed enamel and rock crystal jewel named for this ruler that was discovered near Athelney.
  - A daughter of this ruler extended a defense system in which thirty fortresses were garrisoned by four men to each wall perch; that system of burhs was detailed in the Burghal Hidage during the reign of this ruler's son, Edward the Elder.
  - This ruler translated Pastoral Care, an ecclesiastical handbook composed by Pope Gregory I.
  - The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle was originally compiled during the reign of this ruler, who oversaw the baptism of Guthrum after the Battle of Edington.
  - For 10 points, the Welsh monk Asser wrote a biography of which "great" king of Wessex? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Alfred the Great
  - One account claims that this man found an infant he named Nestingum in an eagle's nest wearing gold armbands and wrapped in a purple cloak.Though likely not their original source, this man is attributed numerous sayings in The Owl and the Nightingale and his namesake 12th-century Proverbs. [PWR]
  - A letter of recommendation written to this king for the eponymous monk provides the name of the Grimbald Gospels. [PWR]
  - This king's wife established Nunnaminster in a city protected by the largest of a series of (*) fortifications across his lands; that city was Winchester.
  - This king is traditionally credited with the translation of The Old English Boethius.
  - He built upon the law codes of Aethelberht of Kent and Offa of Mercia in the Doom Book.
  - For 10 points, name his King of Wessex best known for fending off Guthrum's Great Heathen Army. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Alfred the Great
  - A list of fortresses constructed under this ruler's authority is known as the Burghal Hidage.
  - This man translated the Regula Patoralis of Pope Gregory I and used his prologue to encourage education in the English language.
  - He adopted his former enemy Guthrum and forced his conversion to Christianity.
  - This man's life was chronicled by the Bishop Asser, who toured the fortress on the Isle of Athelney where this man hid out before leading his army to victory at the Battle of Edington to force the Treaty of Wedmore.
  - For 10 points, name this king of Wessex who defeated the invading Danes. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: the treaty between Alfred and Guthrum (accept any answer containing the three underlined words; prompt on partial answers such as "Alfred the Great's treaty with the Vikings/Danes/Norsemen" to indicate a named Viking leader; accept Treaty of Wedmore or Chippenham before "Wedmore")
  - Description acceptable This agreement resulted in the promised departure of one side to a fortress with the Welsh name "Cairceri" in the kingdom of the Hwicce. [PWR]
  - It set the compensation for unlawful killings at eight half-marks of gold in an attempt to discourage further private violence. [PWR]
  - One of the borders set at this treaty was at Watling Street, and this agreement was signed as a result of the Battle of Edington. [PWR]
  - Before the signing of this treaty, one leader allegedly was (*) baptised, took the name Aethelstan, and was taken as an adopted son by the other. [PWR]
  - The Peace of Wedmore and agreement at Chippenham appears to have been conflated with the signing of this document in the fifty-sixth chapter of Asser.
  - For 10 points, the Danelaw was established by what treaty signed between a Viking ruler and the only English king to be called "the Great"? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler carried out a surprise raid during his rival's Twelfth Night celebrations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Guthrum):
    Name this ruler who later lost the Battle of Edington to that rival. This ruler converted to Christianity and accepted that rival as his godfather after the Treaty of Wedmore.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    Guthrum was defeated by this king of Wessex. This king is the only English monarch with the epithet "great."
  Part 3 (ans: Bishop Asser):
    Alfred's peace with Guthrum was recorded by this Welsh monk who helped him translate the treatise Pastoral Care. This bishop wrote the Life of King Alfred.

[B2] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Anglo-Saxon commoners were required to provide services that later writers called the "three-knotted obligation" or trinoda necessitas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fyrd):
    The first "knot" of the obligation was to serve in this militia of freemen, whose members served in Anglo-Saxon armies alongside more experienced troops such as housecarls.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    The second "knot" was to construct and maintain burhs, or fortifications, which this king first systematically built in the late 9th century to protect Wessex from Viking invasion.
  Part 3 (ans: bridges [accept roads and bridges; accept brycg-bote, Old Exe Bridge, or Bridge Building Brotherhood; prompt on roads]):
    The third "knot" was to repair these things, many of which were built by a medieval brotherhood founded by Saint Benezet ("bay-nay-ZEH"). Walter Gervase traveled across England to raise funds for one of these things called "Old Exe."

[B3] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman gives birth to several noseless daughters after her former husband tears off her nose in a work by this author that provided a term for "werewolf" in French. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marie de France):
    Name this medieval author who probably worked in the court of King Henry II. This author wrote several tales inspired by the oral traditions of Brittany, such as Lanval.
  Part 2 (ans: Tristan AND Iseult [accept Isolde in place of Iseult]):
    Two answers required. Marie de France's Breton lai "The Chevrefoil" retells a meeting of these two characters in a forest. These two legendary characters fall in love while one takes the other to marry his uncle Mark.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    Marie also published a set of Anglo-Norman translations of Aesop's Fables, which she translated from this author's Old English version. This first king of the Anglo-Saxons had the epithet "the Great."

[B4] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Before one battle, this ruler reportedly blew into a piece of sandstone, which legendarily signaled victory for anyone who could generate a sound from it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    Name this king from Wessex who is the only English king to be known as "the Great." He signed the Treaty of Wedmore after defeating the Vikings.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward [accept Edward the Elder; accept Edward the Confessor]):
    Alfred was joined in many of his conquests by a son with this name. A later king with this name was the only English king to be canonized.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Tettenhall [or Battle of Wednesfield; or Battle of Wodnesfeld]):
    Edward led the allied Wessex and Mercian forces at this 910 battle. After this battle, no Danish armies raided English territory again. All Viking commanders involved in this battle were killed.

[B5] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions on early medieval British leaders, not all of whom were English:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred the Great [also accept "the wise elf"]):
    This late-9th century king of Wessex is the only English king to be dignified with the epithet 'the Great' for his success in stemming the Viking onslaught and only giving them half the country as the Danelaw.
  Part 2 (ans: Hywel Dda [accept Hywel the Good or Hywel ap Cadell but do not accept or prompt on "Hywel ap Rhodri Molwynog/Hywel, Son of Rhodri the Bald and Grey"]):
    This 10th century ruler created the kingdom of Deheubarth [deh-HAY-barth] and leveraged his submission to Athelstan to unite most of modern Wales. His namesake law code was the basis of Welsh law before the Edwardian conquest.
  Part 3 (ans: the Picts [also accept the toponyms Pictland or Pictavia; prompt on Caledonians as it's unclear how much the later term "Picti" overlaps with earlier Roman authors' use of "Caledonii"]):
    The terms "Scots" and "Scotland" were first applied to the region during the reign of Hywel Dda's contemporary Constantine II, the first ruler to be called "King of Alba" rather than "King of" these people.

[B6] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This learned monarch translated works of Boethius and St. Augustine into English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred the Great [or Aelfred the Great]):
    Name this monarch who signed the Treaty of Wedmore with Guthrum after the Battle of Edington. This only English monarch with the epithet "Great" ruled Wessex.
  Part 2 (ans: Danelaw [or Danelagh; or Dena lagu; or Danelagen]):
    This region defined by the Treaty of Wedmore lay to the north east of Alfred's Doom Book-governed realm. Viking customs predominated in this region, which was governed in counties called wapentake [WAH-pen-tahk].
  Part 3 (ans: Great Heathen Army [or Great Danish Army; Great Viking Army; Mycel Heathen Here; prompt on partial answers]):
    Alfred the Great defeated this military force, once commanded by Ivar the Boneless, at the Battle of Edington. It was supposedly founded by the sons of Ragnar Lodbrok.

[B7] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the rulers of pre-Norman England, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    With name meaning "wise elf," this ruler fought against Ivar the Boneless, won a major victory at the Battle of Edington against Guthrum the Old and issued the Doom Book. He gained his epithet from defeating the Vikings.
  Part 2 (ans: Wessex):
    Alfred the Great ruled over this Anglo-Saxon kingdom with capital at Winchester was first ruled by Cerdic, and it was symbolized by the wyvern, a two-legged dragon.
  Part 3 (ans: Edward the Elder):
    The son of Alfred the Great was this "King of the Anglo-Saxons," who conquered other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms like Mercia and East Anglia and feuded with Northumbria, leading to the Battle of Tettenhall.

[B8] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This kingdom was centered in Modern-day Staffordshire and reached its zenith under Offa, who built a giant dike on the border with Wales. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mercia):
    Name this Anglo-Saxon kingdom which dominated the Heptarchy in the 8th century and was once ruled by the victor at the Battle of Hatfield Chase, Penda.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    This "great" King of Wessex divided Mercia with Guthrum by signing the Treaty of Wedmore.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Ashdown):
    Before becoming king, Alfred won this battle after allegedly summing troops with the Blowing Stone. Bagsecg and his five earls all died here, but the invasion of The Great Heathen Army wasn't ended until the Battle of Edington seven years later.

[B9] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This king reorganized the Fyrd militia and won the Battle of Edlington. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    Name this monarch who signed the Treaty of Wedmore.
  Part 2 (ans: Wessex):
    Alfred the Great ruled this kingdom, which was located mostly to the south and west of the Thames.
  Part 3 (ans: Pastoral Care [or Liber Regulae Pastorilis or Regula Pastoralis]):
    Alfred is known for making a translation of this book by Pope Gregory I, which outlined the proper standards and practices for clergymen.

[B10] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This kingdom controlled much of what is now the English Midlands and was ruled by Penda in the seventh century. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Mercia):
    Name this Anglo-Saxon kingdom, which reached the height of its power under Offa.
  Part 2 (ans: Aethelflaed):
    This woman was known as the "Lady of the Mercians" and ruled in her own right after the death of her husband. She was known for her military prowess and fought the Danes alongside her brother Edward the Elder.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    Aethelflaed was the daughter of this king of Wessex, who was the first to call himself king of the Anglo-Saxons. He created walled towns called burhs to defend against further attacks after beating the Vikings at Edington.

[B11] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about the semi-legendary career of the Viking ruler Ivar the Boneless, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Kingdom of Dublin [or Dubh Linn or Dyfflin]):
    Ivar ruled this city and established a large slave market in it. The Vikings were briefly expelled from this city following the Battle of Clontarf in 1014.
  Part 2 (ans: The Great Heathen Army):
    Ivar was a leader of this combined Viking force, which landed in England in 866 and captured York the following year.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred the Great [or Aelfred the Great]):
    Much of our knowledge about the Great Heathen Army's assault on York comes from the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, which was begun during the reign of this King of Wessex who won the Battle of Edington.

[B12] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: According to the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, this kingdom was founded by Cerdic and his son Cynric, who curiously have Celtic names, which has led to several theories regarding their ancestry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wessex):
    Name this member of the Heptarchy which signed a treaty with the Danish king Guthrum and became Christian with the baptism of Cynegils by the bishop of this place, Birinus.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    The most notable ruler of Wessex was, of course, this man, who signed the aforementioned Treaty of Wedmore with Guthrum after defeating the Danish king at the Battle of Eddington. Other accomplishments by this man include translating the Consolation of Philosophy into Old English.
  Part 3 (ans: burhs):
    To defend against Viking attacks, Alfred developed a system of earthen walls and ditches surrounded by palisades that were known by this name. Some historians consider these structures to be the forerunners of medieval towns, and they were also the center of coin production for a short time.

[B13] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Great Heathen Army, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    The Viking army was led by Guthrum when it was defeated by this man at the Battle of Edington. This king of Wessex, known as "the Great," was noted for his educational and legal improvements.
  Part 2 (ans: Ragnar Lothbrok [or Regner Lodbrok; or Regnar Lodbrog; or Ragnarr Lodbrok]):
    Legendarily, the Great Heathen Army was led by the sons of this legendary Norse ruler, the father of Ivar the Boneless and Bjorn Ironside. He was thrown into a pit of snakes by Aella of Northumbria.
  Part 3 (ans: Mercia):
    The Great Heathen Army also attacked this Anglo-Saxon kingdom, whose rulers included Offa and Penda.

[B14] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Henry of Huntingdon's Historia Anglorum contains the first use of this term, and this collection of kingdoms included Kent and East Anglia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heptarchy):
    Identify this collection of seven Anglo-Saxon kingdoms that ruled Britain until Egbert of Wessex managed to consolidate them in the late 800s.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred the Great):
    Wessex was one of the main members of the Heptarchy. This king of Wessex defeated the Danes at the Battle of Ashdown, created a network of fortresses called Burhs, and translated Boethius' Consolation of Philosophy
  Part 3 (ans: Mercia):
    This other member of the Heptarchy had its capitol at Tamworth and was ruled by a line of kings including Penda and Offa.
