=== STOCK CLUES: John Trumbull ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: John Trumbull
  - After this artist received criticism in London for his choice of subjects, he attempted to curry favor with The Sortie made by the Garrison of Gibraltar. [PWR]
  - This artist chose to exclude 14 men whom he could not find reliable pictures of from a painting by him that shows captured British flags on the back wall. [PWR]
  - The reverse of the (*) two-dollar bill contains a painting by this man showing five men standing to the left of a table opposite a seated John Hancock.
  - For 10 points, name this American artist of a famous version of the Declaration of Independence. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A member of this family wears a black gown in a portrait resembling Gilbert Stuart's "Athanaeum" portrait of her husband. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Washington [or George Washington; or Martha Custis]):
    Name this family, another member of which Crosses the Delaware in an Emanuel Leutze painting.
  Part 2 (ans: John Trumbull):
    Martha Washington wears a pink hat in a painting by this painter, who presented his Washington at Verplanck's Point to Martha. This "Painter of the Revolution" created depictions of the Battle of Bunker Hill.
  Part 3 (ans: Corcoran School of the Arts and Design [or CSAD; prompt on George Washington University, or GW]):
    Eliphalet Frazer Andrews, who created a portrait of Martha Washington, also served as director at this art school in Washington, D.C. This school's gallery faced controversy in 1989 for canceling Robert Mapplethorpe's The Perfect Moment exhibition.

[B2] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several life-like portraits of this person during his diplomatic stay in France are among the best known paintings of Joseph-Marie Duplessis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin Franklin [accept Benjamin Franklin Drawing Electricity from the Sky]):
    Name this historical figure. Cherubs hold a string and curiously touch scientific instruments in a Benjamin West painting showing this person's 1752 experiment with a kite in a lightning storm.
  Part 2 (ans: John Trumbull):
    This artist showed Franklin as the right-most of five figures presenting the title document in his Declaration of Independence. This "Painter of the Revolution" created depictions of the Battles of Bunker Hill and Quebec.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Antoine Houdon):
    This French sculptor created marble busts of Franklin as well as other Enlightenment figures like Diderot, Voltaire, and Jefferson.

[B3] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter's body, along with that of his wife, were moved from beneath the Art Gallery he designed at Yale to the grounds of Yale's Street Hall. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Trumbull):
    Name this American painter, for whom Asher Durand worked as an engraver. Durand engraved this man's portrait of Thomas Jefferson, as well as his Declaration of Independence.
  Part 2 (ans: United States Capitol Building [or the Capitol or Capitol Building]):
    Trumbull's Declaration of Independence is housed in this building's rotunda. Located in Washington, D.C., it also contains Constantino Brumidi's The Apotheosis of George Washington.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin West):
    As Trumbull's mentor, this other artist encouraged him to paint Revolutionary scenes. It is not Albert Ryder, but this man painted Death on the Pale Horse.

[B4] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two sets of red curtains appear on each side of the room in which this work is set, along with four captured military flags wrapped around spears that hang on the back wall. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Declaration of Independence):
    Name this painting depicting 47 men, of whom only Stephen Hopkins wears a hat. Asher Durand built a great reputation as an engraver by copying this painting, in which five people hand the title document to a seated man.
  Part 2 (ans: surrender of Lord Charles Cornwallis [prompt on "British surrender in the American Revolution," etc.]):
    Declaration of Independence is located in the Capitol Rotunda, just like a painting of this scene in which a general rides his horse between two rows of soldiers, one flying a white flag and the other the stars and stripes.
  Part 3 (ans: John Trumbull):
    Both of the aforementioned paintings were created by this early American artist. The image on the front of the 10 dollar bill is based on this man's portrait of Alexander Hamilton.

[B5] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One painting of this man was destroyed during an air raid on Bremen during World War II; fortunately, the second version of that work survived and is now at the Met. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: George Washington):
    Identify this patriot who is shown crossing the Delaware River in a painting by Emmanuel Leutze.
  Part 2 (ans: Gilbert Stuart):
    This earlier American artist never finished his so-called "Athaneum" portrait of Washington, but that version of Washington's face still adorns the one-dollar bill.
  Part 3 (ans: John Trumbull):
    This contemporary of Gilbert Stuart painted several other portraits of Washington, including one where he resigns his commission. However, he may be better known for a massive canvas which depicts the signing of the Declaration of Independence.

[B6] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about paintings in the U. S. Capitol Building.
  Part 1 (ans: George Washington):
    Constantino Brumidi depicted this man surrounded by heavenly figures on the ceiling of the rotunda in his "apotheosis." This man was also shown as a child in Grant Wood's Parson Weems' Fable.
  Part 2 (ans: Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze):
    Washington Crossing the Delaware was painted by this German-American artist, whose painting Westward the Course of Empire Takes its Way is also located in the Capitol Building.
  Part 3 (ans: John Trumbull):
    Also within the rotunda is this artist's Declaration of Independence, which appears on the backside of the two dollar bill. His other works include Surrender of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown.

[B7] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify these early American portraitists, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gilbert Stuart):
    This man created both Landsdowne and Athaneum portraits of George Washington, the latter of which appears on the U.S. One-Dollar Bill.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Wilson Peale):
    This man depicted himself lifting up a red curtain to reveal a vast gallery in The Artist in his Museum. He also had some sons named Raphael and Rembrandt and painted some people digging up bones in Exhumation of the Mastodon.
  Part 3 (ans: John Trumbull):
    In addition to depicting Richard Montgomery's death during the failed invasion of Canada, this man painted The Declaration of Independence, which now hangs in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda
