=== STOCK CLUES: Spanish Civil War ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 71 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 84 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Spain [or Espana; accept Spanish Civil War or guerra civil espanola or guerra de Espana; prompt on Catalonia] (The photograph of the woman wearing heels is Woman training for a Republican militia by Gerda Taro.)
  - A photograph taken in this country depicts a woman wearing heels who kneels on a beach while aiming a pistol.
  - In 2010, nearly 4000 smuggled photographs taken in this country were discovered in three cardboard boxes in a closet in Mexico City.
  - Those photographs were taken in this country by the Polish photojournalist David "Chim" Seymour and a pair of Jewish refugee lovers who covered a war in this country using the pseudonym of a fictitious American journalist.
  - The female German photojournalist Gerda Taro died during a battle in this country.
  - The best-known image of a war in this country depicts a rifle slipping out of a man's hand as he seems to recoil from being shot in the head.
  - For 10 points, Robert Capa may have staged his photograph The Falling Soldier during what country's 1930s civil war? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola] (The first two poems are Pablo Neruda's "What Spain Was Like" and Cesar Vallejo's "Spain, Take This Cup From Me.")
  - A poem set during this conflict envisions a nation that "was a taut, dry drum-head / Daily beating a dull thud" before describing it as "made of petals and bullets / Unique, alive, asleep - resounding." The image of "Jackals that the jackals would despise" appears in a poem set during this conflict that opens, "You are going to ask: and where are the lilacs? and the poppy-petaled metaphysics?" A poem inspired by this conflict instructs, "lower your voice, the song of the syllables" before concluding, (*) "Go out, children of the world, go look for her!" A poem which warns this conflict will bring about an "age of concave temples" is partly titled "Take This Cup From Me." A poem set during this conflict ends with the line "Come and see the blood in the streets!" and is titled "I'm Explaining a Few Things." For 10 points, name this war during which Federico Garcia Lorca was assassinated. [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Spanish Civil War (the first novel is Nada by Carmen Laforet)
  - An existential novel set in this conflict's aftermath centers on the orphan Andrea moving to her grandmother's run-down home and befriending Ena at university. [PWR]
  - Natalia struggles in relationships with Quimet and Antoni in The Time of the Doves, a novel set in this conflict. [PWR]
  - A memoir of this conflict describes how its author survived a sniper wound to the neck and fought alongside Georges Kopp. [PWR]
  - Pascal Duarte's life ends during this conflict in a novel by Camilo Jose Cela.
  - An author fought in the (*) POUM in this conflict, which is the setting of a novel in which the protagonist gets his palms read by Pilar, Pablo's wife.
  - The Generation of '36 primarily wrote during this conflict.
  - Robert Jordan blows up a bridge in, for 10 points, what war, the setting of Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls and Orwell's Homage to Catalonia? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Spain [or Espana; or Kingdom of Spain, Reino de Espana, Regne d'Espanya, or Espainiako Erresuma; accept Spanish Civil War or Guerra Civil Espanola; accept (Second) Spanish Republic or (Segunda) Republica Espanola; prompt on Catalonia until read] (The first poem is Sylvia Townsend Warner's "Journey to Barcelona.")
  - A poem titled for a "Journey to" a city in this country calls it a "country of bone" and ends by calling for "Rain from the red cloud." Another poem about this country, which compares events in its past like "the abolition of fairies and giants" to "the shared cigarette" and "cards in the candlelit barn" of the present, states, "The stars are dead.
  - The animals will not look." A collection about this country features poems written by Sylvia Townsend Warner while serving with the Red Cross; Stephen Spender edited that collection, which includes a W.
  - H.
  - Auden poem that repeats, "to-day the struggle." The author of a memoir about this country recounts being shot in the neck by a sniper and failing to free Georges Kopp from prison before escaping the suppression of its Communist POUM  militia.
  - For 10 points, what country's civil war is the subject of George Orwell's Homage to Catalonia? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 European Drama Packet (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Spanish Civil War (Four Hearts with Break and Reverse is by Enrique Jardiel Poncela)
  - In the essay "Theater of the Masses," a critic of this conflict identified commercial interests, old realists, and young practitioners of poetic theater as the three "minorities" of drama during this conflict.
  - James McCarthy analyzed two lost plays written during this conflict that he termed "militant marionettes." In a play set during this conflict, a boy is killed while fishing because of his shabby cap and the title character keeps bread baking in the oven throughout the play. [PWR]
  - The comedic play Four Hearts with Brake and Reverse was premiered during this conflict. [PWR]
  - After participating in this conflict, George Leeson wrote the play (*) This Trampled Earth about this conflict. [PWR]
  - It's not the Thirty Years' War, but Helene Weigel played the title character in a Bertolt Brecht play titled for her "rifles" set during this conflict.
  - Simple and straightforward plays produced during this conflict were referred to as "urgent theater." Max Aub and Rafael Alberti were exiled following this conflict.
  - For 10 points, Federico Garcia Lorca was assassinated during what conflict? [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Peninsular War [accept Spanish War of Independence; accept Guerra de la Independencia; accept Napoleon's invasion of Portugal or Napoleon's invasion of Spain or Napoleon's invasion of Iberia until "invasion" is read; prompt on Napoleonic Wars; reject "Spanish Civil War"]
  - A city in this war was defended by the "Prince Regent's Bum," one of the "Grand Mortars" commanded by Thomas Graham.
  - During this conflict, irregular troops nicknamed "land corsairs" were allowed to keep any spoils of war. [PWR]
  - The War of the Oranges foreshadowed this conflict, called an "ulcer" by one side that collaborated with Manuel Godoy. [PWR]
  - At a meeting in (*) Bayonne that provoked this conflict, Charles IV  and his son both abdicated in favor of the host ruler's brother.
  - Andre Massena was forced to retreat during this conflict due to secret forts constructed along the Lines of Torres Vedras.
  - The term "guerrilla" was coined during this conflict in which the Battle of Salamanca was won by the Duke of Wellington.
  - For 10 points, name this invasion of Portugal and Spain by Napoleon. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola; prompt on Guerra Civil or La Guerra]
  - Paul Preston controversially labelled this war a "holocaust" in a history of it. [PWR]
  - This war was presaged by a miners' strike that was supported in parliament by the feminist Margarita Nelken.
  - An aerial bombardment in this war destroyed a town's sacred 600-year-old oak tree. [PWR]
  - One of its causes was the CEDA's fall from power, which prompted a coup led by Jose Sanjurjo. [PWR]
  - Following this war's Battle of Teruel, an unsuccessful attack on the bend of a river was ordered by Prime Minister (*) Juan Negrin. [PWR]
  - During this war, Emilio Mola coined the term "fifth column." Units in this war included the German "Condor Legion," and "International Brigades" such as the Abraham Lincoln Brigade.
  - Battles at the Ebro and Guernica were fought during, for 10 points, what war that brought Francisco Franco to power in an Iberian country? [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Spanish Civil War
  - This conflict inspired a now-lost mural of a sickle-holding peasant called The Reaper.
  - In a painting whose artist claimed was a prediction of this conflict, a shriveled head emerges from a knife-shaped leg being grasped by an arm that itself emerges from another limb.
  - A series memorializing this war consists of different arrangements of black and white ovals and squares.
  - This war inspired Soft Construction with Boiled Beans and an abstract expressionist "elegy" by Robert Motherwell.
  - In a painting inspired by this conflict, a flower grows from a disembodied arm holding a broken dagger.
  - That black-and-white painting also includes a stabbed horse screaming in pain, and a mother holding her dead child under a bull.
  - For 10 points, name this war that inspired Pablo Picasso's Guernica. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Spanish Civil War
  - One side of this war received supplies from an allied country through the dummy companies HISMA and ROWAK. [PWR]
  - Piracy during this war was addressed at the Nyon Conference, and this war caused the cancellation of the People's Olympiad. [PWR]
  - During this war, the Assault Guard clashed with the POUM and the CNT in the May Events. [PWR]
  - After the outbreak of this war, Alexander Orlov transported a (*) gold reserve to Moscow. [PWR]
  - The term "fifth column" was coined by a general in this war who, like his colleague Jose Sanjurjo, died in a plane crash.
  - The Abraham Lincoln Battalion was one of the International Brigades that fought in this war.
  - The Condor Legion assisted one side of this war.
  - For 10 points, name this war which included the bombing of Guernica and was won by the leader of the Falange, Francisco Franco. [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra civil espanola]
  - A Christy Moore song about Irish volunteers who fought in this war was inspired by a 1979 book by Michael O'Riordan.
  - Just before the start of this conflict, outrage followed the summary execution of anyone who owned a gun in the town of Casas Viejas.
  - The losing side of this war surrendered after Juan Negrim's government failed to recapture Tereul.
  - International supporters of one side during this conflict fought in units named for James Connolly and Abraham Lincoln as part of the International Brigades.
  - During this war, the German Condor Legion bombed the Basque town of Guernica.
  - For 10 points, name this war where the Nationalist forces of Francisco Franco defeated the Second Republic of an Iberian nation. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Spanish Civil War
  - George Steer's reporting for The Times helped foster international outrage for an incident during this conflict.
  - A key siege during this war saw a woman called "Passionflower" give the non-French "They shall not pass!" speech.
  - One side in this war sent 510 tons of gold to Moscow soon after its outbreak, saw one of its cities destroyed in Operation Rugen, and lost the bloody Battle of Teruel.
  - A clandestine faction working against that side within its cities was given the name "fifth column" by a general in this war who soon died in a plane crash, Emilio Mola.
  - This war, in which Republican forces were crushed at the Battle of the Ebro, also included the Condor Legion's bombing of the Basque city of Guernica.
  - For 10 points, name this 1930s conflict won by Francisco Franco's fascists. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil de Espana]
  - According to one poem, this war was between the "vast military empires of the shark and the tiger" that transformed the "sabbath of witches" and "adoration of madmen" of yesterday into "to-day the struggle." In a story set in a frigid hospital cellar during this war, a Belgian priest tends to three prisoners fated to be shot against the title structure. [PWR]
  - It was detailed in a journalistic work by a volunteer in the POUM militia who escaped its ravages after being shot in the (*) throat by a sniper.This war, the setting ofSartre's "The Wall," provides the backdrop of a novel in which the earth shakes every time the protagonist has sex with his lover, a former rape victim named Maria. [PWR]
  - During this war, Anselmo, Pilar, and Pablo lead a guerrilla band plotting to blow up a bridge and are joined by Robert Jordan.
  - For 10 points, name this war, the setting of Homage to Catalonia and For Whom the Bell Tolls, during which the author Federico Garcia Lorca was killed by Franco's supporters. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of indoor images taken during the 1930s by a photographer from this modern-day country led her to be known as the "Queen of the Leica." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Germany [or Federal Republic of Germany or Bundesrepublik Deutschland]):
    Name this home country of photographer Ilse Bing. Depictions of a superstore and a flat river bank are among two highly-priced images taken by a contemporary photographer from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: wars [accept war photography; accept battles; accept Spanish Civil War]):
    German photojournalist Gerda Taro made her name covering the frontline of one of these events in Spain. Robert Capa's The Falling Soldier depicts a Loyalist dying during these events.
  Part 3 (ans: Magnum Photos [accept Magnum Foundation]):
    Another German photographer, Maria Eisner, helped found this photography collective once led by Robert Capa. In 2007, this collective created a foundation that helps fund marginalized documentary photographers.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Eoin ("owen") O'Duffy's Blueshirts launched a protest against seized goods from this industry that resulted in the Copley Street Riot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cattle industry [or meat industry; or beef industry; accept Coal-Cattle Pact]):
    Name this industry whose exports decreased by 35% during the "Economic War." As part of a 1935 pact, the UK lowered tariffs on this industry's exports in exchange for Ireland lowering tariffs on coal.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    O'Duffy's Blueshirts merged with the National Corporate Party's Greenshirts to form the Irish Brigade during this war in support of Francisco Franco.
  Part 3 (ans: The Emergency):
    O'Duffy is later believed to have secretly met with Nazis during this period of Irish history which coincided with World War II. Buildings around Turkman Gate were demolished during a period with this name in a different country.

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem by this author asks, "Forgive me, Lord: I've died so little!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cesar Vallejo [or Cesar Abraham Vallejo Mendoza] (The unnamed poem is "The Black Heralds.")):
    Name this poet of "Agape" who penned the line "There are blows in life, so powerful...I don't know!" in another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: stones [accept "Black Stone on a White Stone"; accept "Sunstone"]):
    Vallejo's poem titled for a "Black [one of these objects] on a White [one]" describes the speaker predicting their death "in Paris with a rainstorm." A 584-line poem by Octavio Paz titled for a "sun" one of these objects opens "willow of crystal, a poplar of water."
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Vallejo wrote about "Children, / sons of fighters" in a poem about this conflict asking its central country to "Take This Cup From Me." Pablo Neruda's poem "I Explain a Few Things" is about this conflict, during which the Generation of '36 was active.

[B4] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Nicholas Farringdon becomes a missionary and is executed in Haiti after being inspired by another character's piety. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Girls of Slender Means):
    Name this novel about the inhabitants of the May of Teck club. In this novel, Selina rushes back into a crumbling house to retrieve a dress instead of helping Joanna Childe.
  Part 2 (ans: Muriel Spark [Muriel Sarah Spark]):
    This author of The Girls of Slender Means also created a teacher who calls her students the "creme de la creme" in her novel The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Miss Jean Brodie inspires Joyce Emily to go fight and die in this conflict. This conflict is the setting of Maria Duenas' novel The Time in Between.

[B5] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about historical periods depicted in the books of Adam Hochschild, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Leopold II of Belgium [prompt on Leopold]):
    Hochschild's most famous book is named for this king's Ghost. This king of Belgium oversaw the Congo Free State as a personal fiefdom and directed his Force Publique to carry out forced amputations to collect rubber.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    A 2016 Hochschild book surveys American involvement in this war, including Texaco chairman Torkild Rieber supplying one side with cheap oil. The mixed brigades fought on one side of this war alongside the POUM and CNT-FAI.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonard Wood ):
    Hochschild's most recent book, American Midnight, describes how Woodrow Wilson tasked this veteran of the Philippine-American War with breaking up strikes in the Midwest. This general ran unsuccessfully in the 1920 Republican presidential primary.

[B6] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title story of a collection by this author follows a revolutionary who dies by jumping into a furnace while trying to escape a labor camp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Danilo Kis [or Daniel Kiss]):
    Name this Serbian author of the short story collection A Tomb for Boris Davidovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    The title story of A Tomb for Boris Davidovich depicts the terror during the reign of this leader. Alexander Solzhenitsyn was sent to a gulag for criticizing this Georgian-born Soviet leader.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War ("The Wall" is by Jean-Paul Sartre.)):
    A story from A Tomb for Boris Davidovich describes Verschoyle's actions in this conflict. The protagonist unknowingly reveals his allies' location in "The Wall," a story by a different author set during this conflict.

[B7] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A white figure emerges from an orange tree in a painting in this medium titled The Kitchen Garden on the Eyot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tempera [or egg tempera]):
    Name this artistic medium. A giantess enshrouded in golden wheat is circled by geese in a 20th-century painting in this medium, which was also used for late medieval paintings, such as those by Duccio.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonora Carrington):
    This artist used eggs to depict eggs in her tempera paintings The Giantess (The Guardian of the Egg) and The Kitchen Garden on the Eyot. A self-portrait by this British-born artist shows her sitting next to a lactating hyena.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Carrington wrote that the egg was "the dividing line between the Big and the Small" during her stay at a sanatorium during this conflict. This conflict also inspired Pablo Picasso's Guernica.

[B8] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novella by this man, the photographer Jansen is deeply affected by the death of Robert Capa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Patrick Modiano):
    Name this French author of the collection Suspended Sentences. In this author's novel Missing Person, a man who goes by the name Pedro tries to discover more about his past escape into Vichy ["vee-shey"] France and Switzerland.
  Part 2 (ans: John Steinbeck [or John Ernst Steinbeck]):
    This author recounted collaborating with Robert Capa in his work A Russian Journal. In another of his travel accounts, he recounts traveling around America in his van, Rocinante.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Early in his career, Capa took the photograph "Falling Soldier" during this war. George Orwell recounted his experiences fighting in this war in Homage to Catalonia.

[B9] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's Sonnets of Dark Love were likely inspired by his relationship with Juan Ramirez de Lucas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Federico Garcia Lorca [or Federico del Sagrado Corazon de Jesus Garcia Lorca]):
    Name this poet, whose collections include a set of Romani-inspired Ballads, as well as Poet in New York.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    The Sonnets of Dark Love contain some of Garcia Lorca's last poems before he was killed in 1936 by Francisco Franco's supporters during this Iberian conflict.
  Part 3 (ans: Luis de Gongora ("GOHN-goh-rah") [or Luis de Gongora y Argote; or Luis de Argote y Gongora; prompt on Luis de Argote]):
    The poet "sends his love a pigeon" with "sweet eyes and white feathers" in one of Garcia Lorca's Sonnets titled for imitating this earlier Spanish poet. This poet wrote The Fable of Polyphemus and Galatea and the Soledades.

[B10] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The artist who put forth this goal tried to fulfill it by creating a series of collages depicting flamenco dancers that incorporated sandpaper and nails. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "I want to assassinate painting" [or word forms]):
    Name this goal stated by an artist who also expressed a desire to "break their guitar" when describing the Cubists. That artist also produced a series of Burnt Canvases late in his career in an effort to accomplish this goal.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    That quote's author, Joan Miro, was commissioned to paint the mural The Reaper shortly after the outbreak of this conflict, which inspired Salvador Dali's Soft Construction with Boiled Beans and Pablo Picasso's Guernica.
  Part 3 (ans: peasants [or serfs; prompt on farmers]):
    Miro painted an abstract series depicting the Head of a Catalan[one of these people]. Dali used his paranoiac-critical method to reinterpret The Angelus, a Jean-Francois Millet painting of two of these people praying.

[B11] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author of this ethnicity wrote a 1988 story collection about the "individuals and things" of an "interior landscape," titled Obabakoak. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Basque [or Euskara]):
    Name this ethnicity, whose literary form was established in the late 1800s in short prose pieces by the Arana brothers. In an epic poem, Ganelon betrays his army in a battle against soldiers of this ethnicity.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    Txillardegi (chee-ARK-deg-ee), who wrote the first Basque novel, was much inspired by this Basque-born Spanish-language author of the Generation of '98, whose "nivolas" include Niebla and Abel Sanchez.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    The development of Basque literature almost ceased for two decades after this war. In Sartre's 1939 story The Wall, Ramon Gris is accidentally betrayed by Pablo Ibbieta during this war, and ends up shot by Nationalists.

[B12] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: "¡No pasaran!" became a rallying cry during a siege of this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Madrid):
    Name this city, where that siege ended with the National Defence Council's formation and subsequent surrender. The Valley of the Fallen near this city honors the dead from the war during which that siege took place.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    The Siege of Madrid lasted for most of this conflict, in which Republican forces were eventually defeated by the Nationalists under Francisco Franco.
  Part 3 (ans: transferring the Spanish gold reserves to the Soviet Union in exchange for arms [accept any answer discussing giving up the gold reserves; prompt on buying arms or buying supplies or related answers with "buying with what?"]):
    Description acceptable. Francisco Franco's supporters villainized past prime minister Juan Negrin for performing this action during the war during his time as Minister of Finance. This action was seen as ceding control of the Republican government to an outside influence.

[B13] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: William Shirer examined the "collapse" of this government in a book subtitled "An Inquiry into the Fall of France in 1940." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: French Third Republic):
    Name this French government, which lasted from 1870 until France's occupation by Nazi Germany. Its last prime minister was the traitorous Pierre Laval.
  Part 2 (ans: Popular Front [or Front populaire]):
    Before France completely fell apart, it achieved historic reforms under this left-wing government headed by Leon Blum. This government signed the Matignon Accords, which guaranteed a 40-hour work week.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    The Popular Front fell apart over whether or not to intervene in this conflict, which saw Hitler send the Condor Legion. Francisco Franco established a fascist dictatorship following this conflict.

[B14] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man founded the Solidarios, a terrorist group within the "National Confederation of Trabajo," or CNT trade union, and he often yelled "We renounce everything except victory!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Buenaventura Durruti Dumange [accept the Durruti Column]):
    Name this man who fought alongside philosopher Simone Weil in a namesake military unit of 3,000 anarchists that operated without any direct command.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    The Durruti Column fought in this conflict, trying to retake Zaragoza from General Emilio Mola. An infamous bombing was carried out by the Condor Legion in this conflict.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Sanjurjo [or Jose Sanjurjo y Sacanell]):
    Durruti was killed in 1936, the same year that this Nationalist leader died in a plane crash, reportedly because he insisted on taking heavy luggage back to Spain with him. The death of this commanding general allowed Mola to take over full army command, until he too died the next year.

[B15] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's author describes living in the abject filth of a boarding house run by the Brooker family and also describes "fillers" toiling in a coal mine in an oft-excerpted chapter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Road to Wigan Pier):
    Name this George Orwell book whose second part argues that the "prevalence cranks," including "sandal wearers," and "bearded fruit-juice drinkers," drives working-class people away from socialism.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Gollancz ("guh-LANTS")):
    This editor, who commissioned Orwell's The Road to Wigan Pier, famously disavowed his comments about middle-class socialists in fear that they would alienate members of the Left Book Club.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    Orwell derided Gollancz as "part of the Communism-racket" when he refused to publish Homage to Catalonia, which documents Orwell's time fighting in this conflict with the POUM militia.

[B16] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is betrayed by a member of her "set" named Sandy Stranger, who later becomes a nun. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miss Jean Brodie [or Jean Brodie]):
    Name this teacher at the Marcia Blaine School for Girls who mentors six students she calls the "creme de la creme."
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Miss Brodie encourages her student Joyce Emily to fight in this conflict, leading to Joyce Emily's death. Another British author described being shot in the throat by a sniper in an account of this conflict.
  Part 3 (ans: George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]):
    This author fought for the Republican army during the Spanish Civil War, which was recounted in Homage to Catalonia. He allegorized Hitler and Stalin as pigs in the novella Animal Farm.

[B17] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author inserted the word "tra-la" at varying places to upset the rhythm of his poem "The Taxis." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis MacNeice):
    Name this author. Another poem by this author states "It's no go the Yogi-Man, it's no go Blavatsky / All we want is a bank balance and a bit of skirt in a taxi."
  Part 2 (ans: Wystan Hugh Auden):
    MacNeice collaborated with this other poet on their travel book Letters from Iceland. This poet wrote "we must love one another or die" in his poem "September 1, 1939."
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    Auden wrote "The stars are dead. The animals will not look" near the end of a poem about this event. Pablo Neruda wrote "Come and see the blood in the streets" in "I Explain a Few Things," which is also about this event.

[B18] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A possibly-sensationalized account relates how the sides in this war competed to see who could carry out the most gruesome executions from atop a stone "New Bridge" that spanned a massive chasm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Name this conflict, which may have become economically unwinnable for the losers after they were cut off by the Gipuzkoa Campaign, which helped the victors win the War in the North.
  Part 2 (ans: Trajan [or Marcus Ulpius Traianus; accept Trajan's Column]):
    As its name suggests, the Puente Nuevo is not nearly as old as the Alcantara Bridge, a Roman structure built by this successor of Nerva. This man's victory in the Dacian Wars is commemorated on a namesake monument.
  Part 3 (ans: Fitna of al-Andalus [or Andalusian Succession war; or Succession War of the Cordoba Caliphate; prompt on answers involving civil war and either al-Andalus or Cordoba; do not accept anything about the Reconquista or Christians fighting Muslims]):
    The Puente Nuevo allows access to Ronda, a city that became a key strategic center during this conflict, which led to the rise of the Hammudids. It was triggered by the assassination of Abd al-Rahman Sanchuelo, the son of Almanzor.

[B19] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The USSR started Operation X to ship weapons to one side in this conflict. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Name this conflict, during which international units, including the Abraham Lincoln Brigade and Garibaldi Brigade, fought on the Republican side.
  Part 2 (ans: Francisco Franco Bahamonde):
    This Generalissimo was dictator of Spain until his 1975 death.
  Part 3 (ans: Manuel Azana Diaz):
    The Spanish Civil War broke out during the term of this leftist President, who ordered Spain's gold reserve to be sent to the Soviet Union before his government was driven out of Madrid and then Barcelona.

[B20] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A plane crash during this war killed the general Emilio Mola, who coined the term "fifth column." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    Name this war, whose leaders included Jose Sanjurjo, who also died in a plane crash. During this war, the German Condor Legion bombed the Basque town of Guernica.
  Part 2 (ans: Francisco Franco [or Francisco Paulino Hermenegildo Teodulo Franco Bahamonde]):
    This man led the victorious Falange during the Spanish Civil War. This Generalissimo was succeeded by Juan Carlos I after his death in 1975.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Teruel):
    During this battle of the Spanish Civil War, the Republican army attempted to capture a namesake Nationalist provincial capital. Antonio Aranda led the counterattack at this battle, which reached this location's "tooth."

[B21] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A seamstress stitches a secret code into her dresses to aid one side in this conflict in Maria Duenas's novel The Time In Between. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola] (The story is "The Wall" by Jean-Paul Sartre.)):
    Name this war, the setting of a story that ends with the narrator laughing hysterically after he learns that a soldier whom he pretended to betray to escape execution was actually found hiding in a cemetery.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Koestler [or Artur Kosztler]):
    This author described his imprisonment during the war in his book Spanish Testament, and drew on his time in prison to chronicle Rubashov's confinement in his novel Darkness at Noon.
  Part 3 (ans: Number 1 [or No. 1]):
    In Darkness at Noon, Joseph Stalin is implicitly represented as this character. Hare-Lip is executed after he confesses that Rubashov attempted to poison this figure.

[B22] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Jose Sanjurjo, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    Sanjurjo was a general for Francisco Franco's Nationalist faction in this conflict.
  Part 2 (ans: Rif [prompt on "Morocco"; prompt on "Atlas Mountains"]):
    Sanjurjo received the nickname "Lion of" this region after defeating Abd el-Krim's guerrilla resistance. This region is still home to the Spanish cities of Ceuta and Melilla.
  Part 3 (ans: Emilio Mola [or Emilio Mola y Vidal]):
    Both Sanjurjo and this fellow general died in plane crashes, leaving Franco as the sole Nationalist leader. This man coined the term "fifth column" during the siege of Madrid.

[B23] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer took the "Magnificent Eleven" photographs during the D-Day landings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Friedmann]):
    Name this Hungarian photographer of The Falling Soldier.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    The Falling Soldier depicts a death during this conflict, which was also depicted in Children Playing in the Ruins. It also inspired Calder's Mercury Fountain and Picasso's Guernica.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    Capa founded Magnum Photos with this French photojournalist, who captured the "decisive moment" in works like Children Playing in the Ruins. Two of his most famous photos depict a bicycle from the top of a staircase and a smug-looking boy holding two wine bottles.

[B24] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about Mathieu trying to get money for Marcelle's abortion in the novel The Age of Reason. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Paul Sartre):
    Name this author who shacked up with Simone de Beauvoir and detailed Antoine Roquentin's existential distress in Nausea.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    Sartre's short story "The Wall" takes place during this war. The novel The Shadow of the Wind is set in the aftermath of this war, in which George Orwell served.
  Part 3 (ans: Orpheus [or Black Orpheus]):
    Sartre wrote a preface to a major anthology of the Negritude movement published by Senghor. That preface is named after this Greek mythological figure.

[B25] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet described objects "bare like nude giant girls that have no secret," located on hills whose "secret... was stone." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Stephen (Harold) Spender):
    Name this only US Poet Laureate to live outside the US, and author of "The Pylons," a poem so infuential that critics ofen called this man and other modernists of the 1930s the "pylon poets."
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher (William Bradshaw) Isherwood):
    Spender ruminated on his complex sexuality in his letters to this author, who wrote about William Bradshaw's friendships with a German Communist Party member and the worldly Sally Bowles in The Berlin Stories.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    In his autobiography World Within World, Stephen Spender describes how he chased an ex-lover who went to fght in this confict, which George Orwell provided a journalistic account of in Homage to Catalonia.

[B26] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this war, Emilio Mola coined the term "fifth column" to describe secret opponents of the government. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    Name this conflict which also featured the participation of the Mackenzie-Papineau Battalion and the Abraham Lincoln Brigade.
  Part 2 (ans: Generalisimo Fransisco Franco y Bahamonde):
    This victor of the Spanish Civil War seized power and combined the Falange with Carlism. He ruled as dictator of Spain for the next 36 years.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabella II [prompt on Isabella]):
    Carlism was founded in the 1830s to oppose the succession of this queen to the Spanish throne. She was eventually deposed in the Spanish Glorious Revolution and replaced with Amadeo of Savoy.

[B27] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel has his first sexual experience with his wife by raping her on top of his brother Mario's grave. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Family of Pascual Duarte [or La Familia de Pascual Duarte]):
    Name this novel whose protagonist murders El Estirao, the lover of his sister Rosario and his wife Lola. It is written as two "found" letters written by the title character in prison.
  Part 2 (ans: the Spanish Civil War):
    Camilo Jose Cela, the author of The Family of Pascual Duarte, set The Hive at the end of this war. This war is the setting for Ernest Hemingway's For Whom The Bell Tolls.
  Part 3 (ans: George Santayana):
    This other Spanish author moved to America as a child and wrote about Oliver Alden in the novel The Last Puritan, though he is better known as a philosopher.

[B28] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This event culminated when four ships, whose loading was supervised by Francisco Mendez Aspe, landed in Odessa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Moscow Gold affair [or Oro de Moscu; prompt on Gold of the Republic or Oro de la Republica; accept Paris gold; accept anything that suggests Spain sending its gold reserves to Russia/USSR]):
    Name this event in which a European republican government shipped nearly three-fourths of its reserves of a certain precious metal to a friendly ally in exchange for arms.
  Part 2 (ans: Spain [or Espana; or Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil de Espana; prompt on partial answer]):
    The Moscow Gold affair was the shipping out of the gold reserves of this European country that was embroiled in a 1930s civil war involving the Republicans and the Nationalists.
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Negrin y Lopez):
    This Republican minister of finance persuaded Francisco Largo Caballero to make the gold transfer to Moscow. He took over for Largo's successor, Manuel Azana, to become prime minister, a position he held in exile until 1945.
