=== STOCK CLUES: Beaune Altarpiece ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Nicolas Rolin, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Beaune Altarpiece [by Rogier van der Weyden]):
    Rolin commissioned this huge nine-panel altarpiece, sometimes called The Last Judgment, for its namesake hospice. Its central panel shows Jesus sitting on a rainbow above the Archangel Michael, who is weighing souls.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    More famously, Chancellor Rolin commissioned this artist to paint him with the Madonna. He worked on the Ghent Altarpiece with his brother Hubert.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Luke [or Luke the Evangelist]):
    The Madonna of Chancellor Rolin was basically copied for a Rogier van der Weyden painting of the Virgin Mary being drawn by this saint. Early modern European painters' guilds were often named for this saint.

[B2] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Saint Nicodemus gazes at a skull at the bottom of this painting, whose spandrels contain tiny crossbows, indicating it is a commission from the archer's guild at Leuven. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rogier van der Weyden's The Descent from the Cross [or Rogier van der Weyden's The Deposition; prompt on partial answers; prompt on "Rogier" if given in place of "van der Weyden"]):
    Name this scene and its artist. In this scene, this artist depicted a servant that climbs a ladder whose foot is in front of the cross, but whose top is behind it. Also, the blue-clad Mary swoons, adopting a similar pose as her lifeless son. Name both the scene and artist.
  Part 2 (ans: Museo del Prado):
    During the Spanish Civil War, van der Weyden's Deposition was evacuated from this museum in Madrid, which houses hundreds of paintings by El Greco, Velazquez, and Goya.
  Part 3 (ans: Beaune Altarpiece):
    Rogier van der Weyden created a massive nonaptych for a church in this French city. That altarpiece, which magnificently portrays The Last Judgment, was most likely painted in response to the Ghent Altarpiece.
