=== STOCK CLUES: Braque Triptych ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Braque Triptych [or The Braque Family Triptych]
  - The rightmost fgure in this work is a woman who grasps an alabaster jar of perfume and has barely noticeable tears running down her face.
  - A cross bearing an excerpt from the Book of Sirach is located on the exterior of this work, which also features a sheaf of wheat above a skull resting against a brick.
  - The central fgure of this altarpiece holds a globus cruciger and is nearly identical to a depiction of the same fgure in the artist's earlier Last Judgment.
  - This work is notable for sinuous Latin inscrip-tions and talk balloons that fow around four of the fve main fgures and foat toward the top of the canvas.
  - John the Baptist holds a partially-open book on the right panel of this altarpiece, whose center panel contains a depiction of Christ Salvator Mundi fanked by John the Evangelist and the Virgin Mary.
  - Completed seven years afer its artist's Miraflores Altarpiece, for 10 points, name this small triptych, commissioned as a private devotional for the namesake Flemish family from Tournai, painted by Rogier van der Weyden. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The five people in this altarpiece are juxtaposed with five floating Latin inscriptions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Braque Triptych):
    Name this devotional triptych commissioned by a family from Tournai. Its center panel depicts Jesus holding a globus cruciger with John the Evangelist on his left and the Virgin Mary on his right.
  Part 2 (ans: Rogier van der Weyden):
    This Flemish painter, a contemporary of Robert Campin and Jan van Eyck, painted the Braque Triptych as well as a Descent from the Cross in which a blue-robed Virgin Mary faints, mimicking the pose of the body of Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: a skull):
    When closed, the Braque Triptych shows a cross on the right side, and one of these objects resting on a brick on the left. An anamorphic one of these objects can be seen in the bottom half of Hans Holbein's The Ambassadors.

[B2] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: John the Baptist is depicted at the left of this painting wearing red and pointing to the right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Braque Triptych [or The Braque Family Triptych]):
    Name this painting, in which Jesus holds a golden globus cruciger while staring at the viewer. Words are shown around the heads of each of the five people in this painting, the only one its artist created for public display.
  Part 2 (ans: skulls):
    When folded, the left panel of the Braque Triptych shows a large one of these objects resting on a block of wood, representing a vanitas motif. Saint Jerome is often depicted with one of these non-book inanimate objects.
  Part 3 (ans: The Ambassadors):
    This painting by Hans Holbein the Younger shows a large anamorphic skull at the bottom. Two men in this painting rest their arms on a table which contains a globe.

[B3] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Angels with progressively darker colors and yellow banners with inscriptions accompany the title events of this altarpiece in chronological order from left to right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Seven Sacraments Altarpiece):
    Name this triptych, now held in Antwerp, with a middle scene depicting a large crucifixion above the Eucharist. It employs dramatic linear perspective to give the illusion of depth to its setting, the interior of a cathedral.
  Part 2 (ans: Rogier Van Der Weyden [or Roger de la Pasture]):
    The Seven Sacraments Altarpiece is a masterwork by this early Flemish artist, who showed the body of Christ being lowered in his Descent from the Cross.
  Part 3 (ans: The Braque Triptych [or The Braque Family Triptych]):
    Van der Weyden created this triptych as a memorial for Jehan of Tournai. The landscape in the background is continuous across panels depicting John the Baptist, Jesus with Mary and John, and Mary Magdalene.
