=== STOCK CLUES: Miraflores Altarpiece ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An implied shape of a crossbow in this painting is supposed to reference its commission by a guild of archers, and a man in red catches a swooning woman in a bright blue robe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Descent of Christ from the Cross [or The Deposition of Christ]):
    Name this T-shaped painting in which Joseph of Arimethea and Nicodemus facilitate the title action occur.
  Part 2 (ans: Rogier van der Weyden [or Roger de la Pasture]):
    The Descent from the Cross was painted by this Flemish artist of the Seven Sacraments Altarpiece.
  Part 3 (ans: Miraflores Altarpiece [or Triptych of the Virgin; or The Altar of Our Lady; or the Mary Altarpiece]):
    Among the other multi-paneled works of van der Weyden is this altarpiece that contains panels of the birth, death, and resurrection of Jesus. It was named for its donation to a Spanish church.

[B2] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some paintings whose authorship has recently been re-evaluated:
  Part 1 (ans: Miraflores Altarpiece):
    This painting's Berlin version has recently been confirmed as the original. It is a tryptich showing the Pieta behind a gothic arch in a chapel, and shares compositional structure with its painter's Altar of Saint John.
  Part 2 (ans: Merode Altarpiece):
    Nobody really has any idea who painted this rendering of the Annunciation, which shows the Virgin facing the viewer while reading and features Joseph at a workbench on the right panel. It is traditionally attributed to Robert Campin, who may or may not have been the Master of Flemalle.
  Part 3 (ans: John the Baptist):
    A less-disputed piece by Campin is the Werl Altarpiece, which features its commissioner standing next to this figure, who kneels in prayer. This figure makes a guest appearance in severed head form in numerous paintings of Herod or Salome.
