=== STOCK CLUES: Gleizes ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Smoke from industrial factories in Clichy can be seen in the background of one painting of this location. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isle of La Grande Jatte [or Island of La Grand Jatte; or Ile de la Jatte; or Ile de la Grande Jatte]):
    Name this location where a woman holds a monkey on a leash in another painting showing "Sunday Afternoon" on this location.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Gleizes ("glez")):
    The Bathers was among five depictions of La Grand Jatte by this artist. This artist reproduced The Bathers for his manifesto Du Cubisme, written alongside Jean Metzinger ("met-san-ZHAY").
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    Gleizes paid homage to Seurat again in Harvest Threshing, the largest Cubist painting along with this artist's La Ville de Paris. This artist and his wife Sofia co-founded Orphism.

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Orson Welles directed a 1974 documentary interviewing a Hungarian artist who created works with this characteristic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: forgeries [or F for Fake; or answers indicating fake art]):
    Name this characteristic of paintings like The Supper at Emmaus by Han van Meegeren. Elmyr de Hory created artworks with this characteristic.
  Part 2 (ans: Henri Matisse [Henri Emile Benoit Matisse]):
    De Hory's forgeries first came to light after he attempted to sell an alleged painting by this artist to the Fogg Museum. This Fauvist artist's legitimate works include The Joy of Life and The Dance.
  Part 3 (ans: Albert Gleizes):
    John Myatt began forging art after his painting of a mountain village imitating this artist was accepted by Christie's. This artist of Portrait of Jacques Nayral wrote the treatise Du Cubisme with Jean Metzinger.

[B3] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The central figure in this work has a "24" embedded on his collar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Soldier at a Game of Chess [by Jean Metzinger]):
    Name this artwork, representative of its artist's distilled Crystal Cubism era. Its central poilu is depicted playing the title game against a blue background.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Gleizes):
    Jean Metzinger collaborated with this artist and philosopher on the first theoretical treatise on Cubism. This artist's La Chasse depicts a man with a golden hunting horn, with a group of hunting dogs to his right.
  Part 3 (ans: Section d'Or [or the Puteaux Group]):
    Metzinger was a co-founder of this artist collective associated with Cubism and Orphism. Josephin Peladan coined the primary name for this group due to his fascination with the quantity phi.

[B4] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Cezanne retrospective at the 1907 iteration of this exhibition helped to inspire Analytical Cubism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Societe du Salon d'Automne [or Autumn Salon; do not accept or prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this annual art exhibition spearheaded by Frantz Jourdain in 1903. The term "Fauvism" was coined in response to its 1905 iteration.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Braque [brahk]):
    In 1908, the Salon d'Automne infamously rejected this man's painting Houses at l'Estaque, which led Louis Vauxcelles [voh-SELL] to coin the term "Cubism."
  Part 3 (ans: Albert Gleizes [glehz] (The other co-author was Jean Metzinger.)):
    This artist chronicled the fortunes of the Salon d'Automne in his The Epic: From Immobile Form to Mobile Form. This painter of Portrait of Jacques Nayral co-wrote the manifesto Du "Cubisme".

[B5] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Works in this art movement include La guitare and La Femme au Cheval. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cubism):
    Name this art movement pioneered by Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso in which things are painted or sculpted in an angular manner.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Leon Gleizes):
    This man collaborated with Jean Metzinger on the book Du "Cubisme" as well as painting Man on a Balcony and Woman with Phlox.
  Part 3 (ans: Section d'Or):
    Gleizes and Metzinger were key figures in this artistic group associated with the Cubist and Orphist movements. Sometimes called the Puteaux Group, they met in the house of Marcel and Jacques Duchamp.

[B6] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artwork's background depicts red mountains behind a lake that has a white sailboat in it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paysage colore aux oiseaux aquatiques [or Colored Landscape with Aquatic Birds]):
    Name this proto-cubist painting showing three title birds--including a pink flamingo--around a pond. It was painted by Jean Metzinger.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Gleizes):
    Jean Metzinger may be better known for co-authoring On Cubism with this other painter. This advocate of "crystal cubism" painted works like The Hunt.
  Part 3 (ans: pointillism [accept word forms]):
    Before Metzinger's cubist period, he went through a divisionist phase, which is a form of this style with larger brush strokes. This branch of neo-impressionism was used in an 1884 painting depicting a monkey on a leash.

[B7] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist co-wrote a manifesto of Cubism with Jean Metzinger. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albert Gleizes):
    Name this painter of a portrait of Jacques Nayral, the almost entirely grey Woman with Phlox, and a painting called La Chasse, or The Hunt.
  Part 2 (ans: Salon des Independants [or: Societe des Artistes Independants, Salon/Society of Independent Artists]):
    Gleizes' painting The Bathers was exhibited at the 1912 edition of this salon, founded in 1884 in opposition to the government-sponsored Salon. In 1910, a painting by a donkey named Lolo was exhibited here.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges-Pierre Seurat):
    This artist's Bathers at Asnieres was exhibited at the first Salon des Independants. This pointillist also painted A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.
