=== STOCK CLUES: White Noise ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 58 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Answer: noise [accept shot noise, white noise, pink noise, one-over-f noise, Poisson noise, or Johnson-Nyquist noise]
  - A form of this phenomenon studied by Aldert van der Ziel that occurs in the abelian sandpile model is sometimes named for the fact that it obeys an inverse power law with an exponent between 1 and 2.
  - So-called "dark current" occurs due to a type of this phenomenon discovered via experiments in vacuum tubes.
  - A form of this phenomenon is modelled as a Poisson process and occurs due to electric charge quantization.
  - Thermal agitation produces a form of this phenomenon named for Johnson and Nyquist.
  - A form of this phenomenon has a constant power spectral density across all frequencies and is called its "white" form.
  - For 10 points, name this random fluctuation of a signal, which in audio devices is responsible for the sound of static. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The supermarket in White Noise [accept Blackside's until read]
  - Description acceptable.
  - In this location, a character tells another that his wife has "important hair" after she goes "to an area [his] doctor told him to stay out of." In the middle of another interaction in this place a character hears "a dull unlocatable roar, as of some form of swarming life just outside of the range of human comprehension." During that interaction one character compares this location to the Bardo, because "We can walk towards the sliding doors... [PWR]
  - The place is sealed off, self-contained. [PWR]
  - Its timeless." and acknowledges how its filled with (*) "Waves and Radiation." At the end of the book in which this location appears, the protagonist notices, "Everything we need that is not food or love is here...
  - The miracle-vitamins, the cures for cancer....
  - The cults of the famous and the dead" after looking at a tabloid rack.
  - For 10 points, name this brightly colored location named Blackside's in Don DeLillo's White Noise. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: White Noise
  - During an event in this novel, a family walks while all wrapped together in "a single large sheet of transparent polyethylene." In this novel, a character laments that "the insertion curve isn't as smooth as we would like" but tells others to "make allowances for the fact that everything we see tonight is real." Steffie, Denise, and their family evacuate to an abandoned Boy Scout camp in this novel.
  - Heinrich tries to get his father to take a disaster in this novel seriously after seeing a black cloud caused by Nyodene D from the roof of his house.
  - The derailment of a train carrying vinyl chloride in Ohio was noted for its eerie similarity to this novel's "airborne toxic event." For 10 points, name this novel about the Hitler Studies professor Jack Gladney, by Don DeLillo. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Answer: noise [accept intrinsic noise; accept Nyquist-Johnson noise; accept Schottky noise; accept white noise; accept answers to the effect of stochastic terms or forces; accept answers to the effect of fast or microscopic variables; accept answers mentioning Wiener or Brownian processes; accept Levy processes; accept fluctuations before mention; prompt on answers mentioning randomness or similar by asking 'what name is given to the nondeterministic term in that case?']
  - This phenomenon is integrated over in the construction of the Onsager-Machlup  functional to find a functional measure for hydrodynamic variables in the Martin-Siggia -Rose Theory. [PWR]
  - This phenomenon can be called intrinsic when it arises from discreteness in the underlying physics. [PWR]
  - When this phenomenon is multiplicative, the Stratonovich  and Ito  choices differ. [PWR]
  - This phenomenon has an exponential memory kernel in processes named for (*) Ornstein and Uhlenbeck . [PWR]
  - A term representing this phenomenon with a delta function autocorrelation can be found in Langevin  equations.
  - The Schottky  type of this phenomenon may be modelled with a Poisson  distribution and the Nyquist-Johnson type of this phenomenon can be predicted by the fluctuation-dissipation theorem.
  - For 10 points, TV static is sometimes described as a 'white' type of which phenomenon? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Answer: white noise [prompt on noise or Gaussian noise before "Gaussian"]
  - Taking the autocorrelation of this phenomenon as a time series gives the Dirac delta function, since its autocorrelation at nonzero lag is zero.
  - The integral of this phenomenon gives a Wiener process, or equivalently, a generalized time derivative of Brownian motion gives this phenomenon. [PWR]
  - Adding the constraint that samples of this phenomenon have zero mean and are normally distributed creates its "additive Gaussian" type, which is used as a channel model for (*) deep space communication. [PWR]
  - The discrete time version of this phenomenon is a series of i.i.d. random variables.
  - This phenomenon has flat power spectral density.
  - An FM radio set to a nonexistent station estimates, for 10 points, what type of noise with equal intensity across frequencies, named in analogy to light containing all colors? [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Science
     Answer: shot noise [accept shot noise after "noise" is read; prompt on noise until "noise" is read; prompt on white noise until "white" is read; prompt on Poisson noise until "Poissonian" is read]
  - Deterministic scattering in quantum dots or other mesoscopic cavities with long dwell times suppresses this phenomenon. [PWR]
  - Using Landauer's formula, the dependency of the zero-temperature spectral density of this phenomenon on the transmission probabilities T-sub-n is shown to be: the sum over n of the product of T-sub-n and the quantity one minus T-sub-n.
  - Walter Schottky proposed measuring the elementary charge with this phenomenon after he observed it in a (*) vacuum tube. [PWR]
  - This type of noise dominates in nonequilibrium conditions with high frequency current fluctuations.
  - When assumed to be Poissonian, this type of noise's spectral density varies linearly with current.
  - Unlike thermal noise and flicker noise, this type of noise is white and temperature independent.
  - For 10 points, name this type of noise caused by the discreteness of electrical charge. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: White Noise
  - Police in this novel consult the psychic Adele T to find the Treadwells, but she leads them to two kilos of heroin instead. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of this novel discusses with his son whether to trust his senses in deciding if it is raining. [PWR]
  - The protagonist learns German from a part-time (+) meteorologist and discusses whether Elvis was a mama's boy with his friend Murray. [PWR]
  - Winnie Richards investigates a mysterious pill, designed to treat fear from death, called (*) Dylar, and she worked with the protagonist at College-on-the-Hill, where he works as a professor of Hitler studies. [PWR]
  - The protagonist becomes frustrated while talking to a SIMUVAC worker at a boy scout camp.
  - For ten points, name this novel in which Nyodene D spills from a train car, causing an "airborne toxic event", written by Don DeLillo. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: White Noise
  - A character in this novel explains that if she heard the phrase "speeding bullet," she would duck for cover.
  - Another character in this novel plans to break the world record for longest time spent in a cage of venomous snakes.
  - This novel's protagonist argues with his son over the metaphysics of whether it is raining.
  - In this novel, Murray Jay Siskind hopes to create a course on Elvis at the College-on-the-Hill.
  - In this novel, the experimental drug Dylar reveals an affair between Willie Mink and the protagonist's fourth wife, Babette.
  - A derailed train in this novel releases a black cloud of Nyodene D into the air, an event known as "The Airborne Toxic Event." For 10 points, name this novel about Jack Gladney, written by Don DeLillo. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: White Noise
  - A chapter in this novel opens with instructions on how to pay the cable bill, and its protagonist is fascinated by one character's ambition to set a record for sitting in a cage full of poisonous snakes.
  - Its main character adds an initial to his name to be taken more seriously as an academic and studies German with Howard Dunlop in preparation for a conference.
  - This novel's protagonist's former wives are all connected to the intelligence community, unlike his current wife, who obtains the experimental drug Dylar by engaging in an affair with Willie Mink.
  - Its protagonist is exposed to Nyodene D following the "Airborne Toxic Event." For 10 points, identify this novel about Professor of Hitler Studies Jack Gladney, a work of Don DeLillo. [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: White Noise
  - One character in this novel compares the supermarket to the Tibetan afterlife because it contains "psychic data." In this novel, one of the protagonist's sons cries for seven days without explanation.
  - One of this novel's characters, Orest Mercator, hopes to break the world record for longest time spent in a cage of poisonous snakes.
  - The protagonist's wives are all connected to the intelligence community except Babette, who discusses sunsets at the end of this novel.
  - In this novel, Willie Mink sells the drug Dylar, which alleviates the protagonist's fear of death.
  - In this novel, the Airborne Toxic Event affects Hitler Studies Professor Jack Gladney.
  - For 10 points, name this novel by Don DeLillo. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: The University of Washington's ADMX experiment uses these devices as RF amplifiers to search for evidence of axions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: SQUIDs [or Superconducting Quantum Interference Devices]):
    Name these devices containing superconducting loops that can detect extremely weak magnetic fields, down to about 5 quintillionths of a tesla.
  Part 2 (ans: noise [accept shot noise or white noise]):
    SQUIDs are extremely sensitive because they experience very little of this random fluctuation in an electric signal. The intensity of this phenomenon's "white" type does not depend on frequency.
  Part 3 (ans: Josephson junctions [or JJs]):
    SQUIDs contain two of these devices, which are made of an insulator sandwiched between two superconductors. Observations of quantum tunneling in these devices were awarded the 2025 Nobel Prize in Physics.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Science
     Leadin: Since Fourier transforms for random stationary processes do not exist, the Wiener-Khinchin theorem obtains one of these values by taking the Fourier transform of the autocorrelation function. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: spectral densities [or spectral density; accept power spectral density; accept energy spectral density; prompt on S; prompt on Sxx ("S-sub-x-x"); reject "density"]):
    Name these values. Parseval's theorem allows one to integrate a form of these values to obtain the average power of a signal.
  Part 2 (ans: bandwidth [or spectral linewidth]):
    This quantity for a signal can be defined as the range of frequency for which the power spectral density is nonzero. Taking the difference between the minimum and maximum frequencies emitted by a source gives this quantity.
  Part 3 (ans: noise [accept background noise or white noise]):
    The system bandwidth can be defined as a signal's ability to reduce the bandwidth of this phenomenon. A constant spectral density is possessed by the "white" form of this phenomenon.

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: The standardized sample mean of independent and identically distributed random variables converges to a random variable with this distribution by the central limit theorem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: normal distribution):
    Name this distribution with a "bell curve" shape, which is also called a Gaussian distribution.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaussian error function [or erf]):
    The cumulative distribution function of a Gaussian distribution can be computed using this function. This function is the normalized integral between zero and z of the quantity "e to the negative t squared."
  Part 3 (ans: Gaussian white noise [prompt on Gaussian noise]):
    The values of this random process at any pair of times are independent and identically distributed Gaussian random variables. Usually added to PDEs to create stochastic PDEs, it is the derivative of Brownian motion.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. David Foster Wallace's essay "E Unibus Pluram" praises the "complicated ironies" of a lengthy passage about this location. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the most photographed barn in America [accept descriptions of a barn that is photographed; accept the barn from White Noise; prompt on barn]):
    In a 1985 novel, the protagonist and his colleague, a professor of pop culture who seeks to specialize in "Elvis Studies," visit what tourist destination, which "no one sees" despite extensively documenting it?
  Part 2 (ans: television [or TV]):
    "E Unibus Pluram" traces this medium's influence on U.S. fiction. Jack Gladney's kids are addicted to this medium in Don DeLillo's novel White Noise, whose title refers to the visual static produced by it.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Pynchon [or Thomas Ruggles Pynchon Jr.] (The second novel is The Crying of Lot 49.)):
    This author featured zombie-like, TV-obsessed "Thanatoids" in his novel Vineland. After returning from a Tupperware party, one of this author's protagonists stares at a TV upon hearing she will execute Pierce Inverarity's will.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: This type of noise is commonly used in random number generators, such as Random.org, as well as to mask tinnitus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: white noise):
    Name this type of noise defined by a power spectrum in which all frequencies have equal intensity. It is named for light that contains all wavelengths in the visible spectrum.
  Part 2 (ans: pink noise [or one-over-f noise; or 1/f noise]):
    This other type of colored noise is characterized by a power spectrum in which the intensity is inversely proportional to the frequency. Audio of this type of noise is described as sounding like a waterfall.
  Part 3 (ans: one over f-squared [or 1/f²; or f to the negative two power; or inverse-square; or equivalents]):
    Random walk or Brownian noise is qualitatively similar to pink noise, but its power spectral density has this frequency scaling, which corresponds to a drop-off of 6 decibels per octave. Give your answer in terms of f.

[B6] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Jean Baudrillard's Simulacra and Simulation may have influenced the decision to include the company SIMUVAC, which uses a real-life disaster to prepare for fake ones, in this novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: White Noise):
    Name this novel. To escape the fear of death, characters in this novel essentially place themselves into a simulation by consuming the drug Dylar.
  Part 2 (ans: barns [or "The Most Photographed Barn in America"; prompt on farms]):
    Jack's friend Murray espouses Baudrillard's ideas of the "simulacra" by claiming that "every photograph reinforces the aura" of one of these places. In White Noise, Jack and Murray visit the "most photographed" one of these places "in America."
  Part 3 (ans: Don DeLillo [Donald Richard DeLillo]):
    Despite incorporating Baudrillard's concept of the "simulacra" into many of his novels, this American author of White Noise rejected the label given to him of a "postmodern novelist."

[B7] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While visiting America's most-photographed barn in this novel, Murray Jay Siskind observes, "Once you've seen the signs about the barn it becomes impossible to see the barn." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: White Noise):
    Name this novel by Don DeLillo in which Hitler Studies professor Jack Gladney is exposed to the Airborne Toxic Event.
  Part 2 (ans: Dylar):
    Jack's wife Babette obtains this drug, intended to treat her fear of death, by having sex with a man she calls Mr. Gray. A side effect of this drug causes Mr. Gray to curl into the fetal position when Jack says "Falling plane."
  Part 3 (ans: tricycle [or trike]):
    Jack and Babette's son Wilder is unafraid of death, as shown at the end of White Noise when he uses this object. Two elderly women watch as Wilder plays with this object and almost gets run over on the expressway.

[B8] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this work believes her "old cells" will be "distant, foggy memories" after she completes this novel's title activity with a litany of substances like "Neuroproxin, Maxiphenphen, Valdignore." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: My Year of Rest and Relaxation):
    Name this novel by Ottessa Moshfegh whose protagonist strives to sleep as much as possible with the assistance of the quack Dr. Tuttle and the artist Ping Xi after she is fired from her gallery job.
  Part 2 (ans: 9/11 [or September 11, 2001 attacks; or World Trade Center attacks; or equivalents]):
    In My Year of Rest and Relaxation, the narrator's former roommate at Columbia dies in this event, which is depicted in Falling Man and Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close.
  Part 3 (ans: Don DeLillo (The novel is White Noise.)):
    This author wrote about the title performance artist re-enacting a scene from 9/11 in Falling Man. In another novel by this author, Babette takes the drug Dylar to avoid the fear of death.

[B9] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about fictional drugs in contemporary American literature, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Foster Wallace [prompt on DFW]):
    Hal Incandenza may have consumed the hallucinogenic drug DMZ after some was put on his toothbrush near the end of the lengthy novel Infinite Jest, which was written by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: My Year of Rest and Relaxation):
    The protagonist of this 2018 novel by Ottessa Moshfegh takes prescription drugs like Silencior and Maxiphenphen and sleeps through much of 2000 and 2001 after she is fired from an art gallery.
  Part 3 (ans: White Noise [by Don Delillo]):
    In this novel, Babette has an affair with Willie Mink in exchange for the drug Dylar. Babette's husband is Jack Gladney, a professor of Hitler Studies who narrates this novel.

[B10] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One pill used to cure this disorder also causes its user to believe that words said around them are actual objects, like "falling airplane." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fear of death [or thanatophobia; accept equivalents like fear of dying or being scared of death; prompt on fear or similar answers]):
    Name this disorder. To receive an experimental drug for it, Babette repeatedly has an affair with the pseudonymous Mr. Gray.
  Part 2 (ans: White Noise):
    Babette takes the experimental drug Dylar to treat her fear of death in this novel, in which her husband Jack pioneers the academic field of Hitler Studies.
  Part 3 (ans: Don DeLillo):
    White Noise is a novel by this postmodern American author, who described the life of Lee Harvey Oswald in his novel Libra and wrote Underworld and Mao II.

[B11] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A book by this author includes the autobiographical essay "Tristes Tropiques," which discusses the experience of "twinning" with a loved one referred to only as SL. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hilton Als):
    Name this New Yorker theater critic who included people like Malcolm X's mother in the title category of his book White Girls. He won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for Criticism.
  Part 2 (ans: Vogue):
    White Girls also includes a portrait of Andre Leon Talley, the former editor-at-large of this fashion magazine currently helmed by Anna Wintour ("winter").
  Part 3 (ans: White Noise):
    An essay from White Girls about Eminem shares its title with this novel in which Jack Gladney is spooked by the Airborne Toxic Event.

[B12] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Maximilian Aue (OW-uh) is arrested for biting this location's principal occupant on the nose in a novel by Jonathan Littell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Fuhrerbunker [or Adolf Hitler's bunker; or obvious equivalents]):
    Name this location, whose inhabitants deliver dramatic monologues in a cycle of "poems in progress" written by W. D. Snodgrass. A search for a porn film made in this location is the subject of the novel Running Dog.
  Part 2 (ans: White Noise):
    Jack Gladney hosts the first Hitler Studies Conference and struggles to cope with the threat of the Airborne Toxic Event in this novel by the author of Running Dog, Don DeLillo.
  Part 3 (ans: The Kindly Ones [or Les Bienveillantes]):
    The aforementioned nose-biting occurs in this French-language novel by Jonathan Littell. Structured after the seven sections of a Bach suite, this novel consists of Maximilian's war memoirs.

[B13] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A drug in this novel makes people unable to distinguish words from things, so simply saying "speeding bullet" would cause a character using the drug to duck for cover. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: White Noise):
    Name in this novel in which Babette takes the aforementioned drug, Dylar, to try to overcome her fear of death. The fear is intensified by the "airborne toxic event" that occurs in the second part of this novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Don DeLillo):
    White Noise is a novel by this postmodern American author, who also wrote about Lee Harvey Oswald in Libra and waste management executive Nick Shay in Underworld.
  Part 3 (ans: a tricycle [or trike; do not accept "bicycle"]):
    In the final chapter of White Noise, Wilder Gladney improbably crosses a highway using this method of transportation.

[B14] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: Identify these types of sound. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: White Noise):
    This hissing sound has equal power in any band of a given bandwidth, but is not in fact perceived as equally loud at all frequencies, unlike its "grey" equivalent.
  Part 2 (ans: Shepard Tone):
    This sound consists of superimposed sine waves based on rising or falling tones an octave apart. The tones fade in and out to give the illusion of a single tone that is continually rising or falling but never goes anywhere.
  Part 3 (ans: Square Wave):
    Common in electronic music, this type of wave alternates between fixed minimum and maximum values, with the same duration at minimum and maximum and a theoretically instantaneous transition between the two.

[B15] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this novel claims that men's strength is homicidal rage, while another claims that The Long Hot Summer is a play by Tennessee Ernie Williams. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: White Noise):
    Name this Don Delillo novel in which non-Germanophone Hitler Studies professor Jack Gladney is exposed to chemicals during the Airborne Toxic Event. It also describes his wife Babette taking Dylar to cure her fear of death.
  Part 2 (ans: Point Omega):
    An anonymous man watches 24 Hour Psycho at the beginning and end of this latest DeLillo novel, in which the poetry-loving ex-Department of Defense scholar Richard Elster retires to a desert to contemplate deep time.
  Part 3 (ans: 9/11 [or September 11; or World Trade Center bombing; or equivalents]):
    DeLillo's novel Falling Man, named for a performance artist who leaps out of buildings, opens with this event. Keith Neudecker, who survives this event, has a son who fears the imaginary Bill Lawton.

[B16] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: This phenomenon is characterized by an additional root-mean-square current equal to the square root of two times the electron charge times the mean current times the bandwidth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: shot noise [prompt on "noise" and "white noise," but not any other type of noise!]):
    Name this process in which the discrete nature of charge causes the current in an electrical component to fluctuate.
  Part 2 (ans: power):
    Shot noise is a type of white noise, in which this quantity has a flat spectral density. Irradiance and intensity are equal to this quantity divided by area.
  Part 3 (ans: frequency):
    In flicker noise, the power spectral density falls off as one over this quantity. The energy of a photon is equal to Planck's constant times this quantity.
