=== STOCK CLUES: Charles Ives ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 62 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 20 found, 60 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives [or Charles (Edward) Ives]
  - Johnny Reinhard reconstructed this composer's last work, whose 20 musical lines only coincide every 8 seconds. [PWR]
  - Church bells marked ppppp (five p's) conclude the "Communion" movement of this composer's Third Symphony.
  - This composer's Fourth Symphony has an offstage ensemble of harp and violins, requiring two conductors.
  - In one work by this composer, offstage strings underlay four flutes and an atonal trumpet motif. [PWR]
  - A piano sonata by this composer instructs the performer to play tone clusters by depressing the keys with a (*) piece of wood and has movements named for Emerson and Thoreau. [PWR]
  - In one work that this composer paired with Central Park in the Dark, a woodwind quartet becomes increasingly agitated each time it answers the title motif "asked" by a solo trumpet.
  - For 10 points, name this American composer of the Concord Sonata and The Unanswered Question. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives]
  - After describing his relatively melodious third violin sonata as a "weak sister," this composer concluded that to write worthwhile music he "must keep away from musicians." The opening Moderato movement of this composer's piano trio repeats a 27-bar section three times, leaving out the violin the first time and the cello the second.
  - A "distant Amen" concludes the second movement of this composer's brief fourth violin sonata, which is subtitled "Children's Day" and has a finale titled "Allegro (Con slugarocko)." This composer often overlapped quotations of American folk songs in his scherzi, which have descriptive titles like "In the Barn" and "This Scherzo is a Joke." A soft, calm B-flat major quotation of the fate motif from Beethoven's Fifth Symphony opens a movement by this composer titled "The Alcotts." For 10 points, name this American composer of the Concord Sonata. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - Gayle Sherwood Magee's biography [this composer] Reconsidered responds to Maynard Solomon's claim that this composer backdated his pieces.
  - The first complete catalogue of this composer's works was assembled by James Sinclair. [PWR]
  - This composer's fourth symphony includes a part for an "ether organ." A piano piece by him includes optional parts for flute and viola and quotes the four-note fate motif from Beethoven's fifth symphony in (*) each movement.
  - That sonata instructs the performer to depress the keys with a long piece of wood in the second movement, which is titled "Hawthorne." Another piece by this composer depicts a monument sculpted by Augustus St.
  - Gaudens in its first movement, and the Housatonic River in its third movement.
  - For 10 points, name this American composer of the Concord Sonata and Three Places in New England. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - This composer wrote the words "actual notes" above the following melody of half- and quarter-note triplets: (read slowly) long B-flat, low C-sharp, low E, long high E-flat, C.
  - A ppp (triple piano) string chorale slowly shifts between widely spaced, non-dominant, diatonic chords to form the static background of a piece by this composer.
  - This composer's Two Contemplations initially paired that piece with one that calls for a grand piano and a player piano, and contrasts eerie strings with ragtime music.
  - In a short piece by this composer, seven repetitions of an atonal trumpet melody are interspersed with increasingly frenetic woodwind quartet phrases.
  - A long wooden plank in used in his piano sonata that quotes Beethoven's 5th in all four movements, including "Hawthorne" and "The Alcotts." For 10 points, name this composer of The Unanswered Question, Central Park in the Dark, and The Concord Sonata. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - Gender scholars like Judith Tick cite this composer's quip that Impressionism was "easy music for the sissies" and obsessive opposition to "feminine" music as evidence of misogyny.
  - The ending of a piece by this composer was described as strings "quietly prolonging" a G major triad "into eternity." "The Rock Strewn Hills" is the setting of the second movement of this composer's Orchestral Set No. 2.
  - In a piece by this composer, flutes play increasing atonal melodies as responses to seven notes played by a trumpet.
  - A pastiche of Civil War songs makes up much of a movement that this composer set at "The Saint-Gaudens," which is followed by one at "Putnam's Camp." For 10 points, name this composer of The Unanswered Question and Three Places in New England. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - A very short song by this composer alternates between the two whole tone scales and ends with a boy wondering "is life anything like that?" This composer wrote a song whose melody paraphrases the hymn "There is a Fountain Filled With Blood" every time the singer asks "Are you washed in the blood of the lamb?"; that piece, which sets text by Vachel Lindsay, is General William Booth Enters into Heaven. [PWR]
  - A trumpet is the only brass instrument in one work by this composer that uses an (*) offstage string orchestra playing triple piano the entire piece; that work, The Unanswered Question, was originally paired with his Central Park in the Dark. [PWR]
  - A block of wood is used to play a cluster chord in this composer's sonata that has movements named after the Alcotts and Thoreau.
  - For 10 points, name this American insurance salesman and composer of the Concord Sonata. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - This man's last symphony employs a "distant choir" of violins and harps that play in a separate rhythm from the rest of the orchestra in the finale; the third movement of that piece has a fugue based on this man's first string quartet and was later arranged by his friend Bernard Herrmann.
  - The first movement of another work by this man consists of the same 27 measures three times, though the violin and cello are silent for the first and second iteration, respectively.
  - The song "Columbia, Gem of the Ocean" is quoted in this composer's Second Symphony, his Holidays Symphony, and a piece with a movement titled "Putnam's Camp." A symphony called The Camp Meeting and the Concord Sonata are by, for 10 points, what American composer of Three Places in New England? [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: symphonies of Charles Ives [prompt on partial answer]
  - Composer and genre required.
  - Johnny Reinhard realized an unfinished example of these pieces, whose underlying rhythm is based on repeated "basic units" of sixteen seconds.
  - A "distant choir" of a harp and violins plays separately from the main orchestra in the final movement of the fourth of these pieces, which is so complex that it often requires multiple conductors.
  - One of these pieces includes a second movement "comedy" which juxtaposes a quiet pilgrims' hymn with cacophonous marches and popular songs.
  - The second one ends with an abrupt final chord frequently compared to a raspberry or Bronx cheer, and was premiered by Leonard Bernstein in 1951.
  - The third one was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in 1947, and includes movements called "Children's Day" and "Old Folks Gatherin'." For 10 points, name this set of orchestral works that includes pieces nicknamed "Universe" and "The Camp Meeting," written by the composer of The Unanswered Question. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - A piece by this composer was called a "cosmic drama" in a lecture series by Leonard Bernstein titled for it.
  - This composer referred to one of his pieces, in which a crescendo building up to a C-major chord is shot through with a dissonant B from the horn, as the "Black March." The opening bars of Beethoven's 5th symphony are quoted in each movement of a piece by this composer that calls for a 14 and 3/4-inch long block of (*) wood to play a cluster chord. [PWR]
  - For another of his pieces, the strings and woodwinds are to each be placed separately from a trumpet soloist who plays a non-tonal phrase seven times.
  - This composer of The Unanswered Question depicted Stockbridge, Putnam's Camp, and "Saint Gaudens" in Boston Commons in an orchestral piece.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of the "Concord" sonata and Three Places In New England. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - This composer parodied "polite salon music" with an interlude for solo viola and piano in one of his symphonies, which calls for a "distant choir" of strings in its fourth movement.
  - Optional parts for the flute and viola appear in a piano sonata by this composer, which was published immediately after the explanatory "Essays Before a Sonata." In another piece by him, increasingly dissonant woodwinds represent "Fighting Answerers" struggling in vain against a solo trumpet.
  - Writers such as the Alcotts, Thoreau, and Emerson title the movements of this composer's Concord Sonata.
  - Another of his pieces pays homage to Robert Gould Shaw and his black regiment.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of The Unanswered Question and Three Places in New England. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - In one piece, this composer memorialized an incident in which a crowd waiting at a train station spontaneously broke out into song.
  - Nicholas Slonimsky instructed part of his ensemble to play four measures in the same time that another part played three to evoke dueling bands in his rendition of another "orchestral set" by this composer.
  - He instructed the pianist to create a tone cluster by hitting the keys with a piece of wood in the "Hawthorne" movement of another work.
  - This composer used minor thirds in his quotations of songs like "Old Black Joe" in the first movement of his most famous piece, which depicts the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial.
  - For 10 points, name this American composer of Concord Sonata and Three Places in New England. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Ives
  - This composer's Second String Quartet depicts four men who "converse, discuss, argue...fight, shake hands, shut up - then walk up the mountainside to view the firmament!" One of this composer's song texts posits a "place in the soul all made of tunes," a phrase which titles J. [PWR]
  - Peter Burkholder's authoritative study on this composer's use of musical borrowing. [PWR]
  - This composer theorized a dichotomy between musical "substance" and "manner" in the Epilogue to his Essays Before a Sonata. [PWR]
  - The dissonances of one movement by this composer were supposedly inspired by the sound of two different (*) marching bands playing simultaneously, and he wrote a piano piece that features optional flute and viola parts. [PWR]
  - That piece contains a "human faith" melody that is thematically related to quotations of the "Fate" motif from Beethoven's Fifth.
  - For 10 points, name this composer who depicted figures like Emerson and Thoreau in his Concord Sonata. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Piano Sonatas by Charles Ives [piano not needed after mentioned]
  - One of these works by this composer twice contains the dizzying syncopation of playing six notes in the right hand while playing five in the left and uses a portion of the melody from Carl Foeppl's Ever of Thee. [PWR]
  - The first of these works contains a bass line written in three-fourths time despite the 4/4 time signature in its setting of the ragtime melody "In the Inn" and was premiered by William Masselos. [PWR]
  - One of these works is known as the (*) "Three Page" one.
  - The best known of these works repeatedly quotes the opening of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, has the player strike the keyboard with a fourteen and three quarter inch long piece of wood, and contains sections titled "Emerson," "Hawthorne," and "Thoreau." For 10 points, name these piano pieces including the second, nicknamed Concord. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a live recording by this conductor, the trombones missed an entry due to an audience member suffering a heart attack. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonard Bernstein):
    Name this American conductor and composer who broadcast Young People's Concerts while music director of the New York Philharmonic. This conductor made several recordings of his own works like West Side Story.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Mahler's Symphony No. 9):
    Bernstein's only recording with the Berlin Philharmonic was a live recording of this symphony, which contains a Rondo-Burleske third movement. Bernstein suggested that a syncopated rhythm in the first movement of this symphony represents its composer's heartbeat.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives] (The piece is The Unanswered Question.)):
    Bernstein named his Norton lectures after a piece by this composer that contrasts increasingly dissonant woodwind parts with serene strings that represent "the Silence of the Druids" in response to a solo trumpet.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the much-delayed premiere of this symphony, Lou Harrison failed to restore the dissonant "shadow lines" its composer removed from the original pencil sketches. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Ives's Symphony No. 3 [or Charles Ives's Third Symphony; or The Camp Meeting]):
    Name this symphony for chamber orchestra depicting the religious gatherings that also inspired its composer's fourth violin sonata. Fading church bells marked with five p's end this symphony's "Communion" finale.
  Part 2 (ans: Pulitzer Prize for Music):
    Ives grumbled about "badges of mediocrity" after winning this prize for The Camp Meeting. Columbia University awarded William Schuman the first iteration of this prize alongside those for Letters and Drama.
  Part 3 (ans: Amy Beach [or Amy Marcy Cheney Beach]):
    Jonathan Blumhofer declared "the finest symphony by an American composer before Ives" to be this Boston-based composer's E minor Gaelic Symphony.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This American composer's fourth symphony is so complex that it required three conductors at its 1965 posthumous premiere. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives]):
    Name this composer who layered American hymns, popular songs, and other musical quotations in compositions like Three Places in New England.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Serebrier ("SAIR-uh-bree-YAIR")):
    Along with David Katz, this Uruguayan conductor assisted Leopold Stokowski at the premiere of Ives's Fourth. His many recordings with the Bournemouth Symphony include complete symphony cycles of Dvorak and Ned Rorem.
  Part 3 (ans: Gunther Schuller [or Gunther Alexander Schuller]):
    This composer and French hornist served as editorial consultant on the Performing Edition of Ives's Fourth. This president of the New England Conservatory from 1967-77 wrote the book Early Jazz and coined the term "third stream."

[B4] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sometimes one orchestra just isn't enough. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elliott Carter):
    This composer scored for three orchestras in his piece inspired by a Hart Crane poem, "A Symphony of Three Orchestras." This composer used metric modulation in his double concerto for harpsichord and piano, which is additionally scored for two chamber orchestras.
  Part 2 (ans: Karlheinz Stockhausen):
    This avant-garde German composer scored for three orchestras in his Gruppen. His other works include the seven-opera cycle Licht, the sixth of which includes his "Helicopter" string quartet.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Ives):
    Although not involving separate orchestras, performances of this composer's fourth symphony often require two conductors and a separate percussion ensemble. This composer wrote The Unanswered Question.

[B5] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of courses in this city were funded by the Theater and Music Branch of the American Military Government and administered by Everett Helm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Darmstadt, Germany [accept Darmstadt School; accept Darmstadter Ferienkurse]):
    Name this city whose summer courses on contemporary classical music attracted composers like Luigi Nono and Brian Ferneyhough to its namesake "school."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives]):
    During courses at Darmstadt, the musicologist Leo Schrade lectured on this "Americanist" composer's use of polytonality in pieces like his Second Piano Sonata. This composer's Second Symphony quotes "Camptown Races" and ends with a chord often likened to a blown raspberry.
  Part 3 (ans: twelve-tone technique [or dodecaphony; or Zwolftontechnik; prompt on serialism]):
    The Darmstadt school was criticized by Franco Evangelisti for having a sort of "police" enforcing this compositional technique. This technique is named for the number of pitches it employs and was popularized by Arnold Schoenberg's ("SHERN-bergʼs") use of tone rows.

[B6] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer used the rare time signature of 1/1 [one one] in the prestissimo Scherzo of their Symphony No. 2, which features near-continuous staccato quarter notes except in its Trio section. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Porfiryevich Borodin):
    Name this composer. The first movement of that symphony opens with a theme consisting of long whole note B, eighth notes B, B, C, E, D-sharp, B, a quarter-note D-natural, and whole note B.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives's Piano Sonata No. 2, Concord, Mass., 1840-60 / 'Concord Sonata' [prompt on partial answers]):
    This piano sonata mostly lacks time signatures, but does have a single bar of 4½/4 [four-and-a-half four] in its third movement. This piano sonata is also notable for including parts for viola and flute, and directing that a block of wood be used in its second movement.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rite of Spring):
    This ballet by Stravinsky is noted for its rhythmic complexity, with its final 'Sacrificial Dance' featuring time signatures including 3/16 [three sixteen], 4/16, and 5/16.

[B7] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The American Academy of Arts and Letters awards eight prizes named for this composer each year: two worth 15,000 dollars and six worth 7,500 dollars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Ives (The latter piece is Three Places in New England.)):
    Name this composer who quoted the song "Columbia, Gem of the Ocean" in his Symphony No. 2, as well as in a piece that contains a musical depiction of Augustus St. Gaudens' monument to Robert Gould Shaw.
  Part 2 (ans: piano sonata [prompt on sonata]):
    One of the two inaugural Charles Ives Prizes went to John Kirkpatrick, who gave the 1939 premiere of Ives's second piece in this genre, titled "Concord." One of Beethoven's 32 pieces in this genre is named "Appassionata."
  Part 3 (ans: symphonic poem [or tone poem] (The second piece is An American in Paris.)):
    The other inaugural Ives Prize went to Joseph Schwantner, who won a 1979 Pulitzer for a piece in this genre titled Aftertones of Infinity. In a piece in this genre by an American composer, the A section presents a so-called "walking theme," and an F minor violin cadenza marks the transition to the wistful, bluesy B section.

[B8] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about famous groups of composers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: France):
    The members of Les six (SEE), a group including Francis Poulenc and Arthur Honegger, hailed from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Mily Alexeyevich Balakirev):
    Among the composers in Russia's Mighty Handful was this man, who composed the notoriously difficult piano piece Islamey. He is generally regarded as the leader of the group.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Ives):
    Perhaps less famous than the previous two groups was the so-called "American Five," which included this composer of the Concord Sonata.

[B9] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Midway through this piece, strings continue to play in Molto adagio tempo while the rest of the orchestra accelerates and crescendos to tempo con fuoco. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Central Park in the Dark [accept A Contemplation of Nothing Serious]):
    Name this 1906 piece written for strings, two ragtime pianos, and a street band.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives]):
    This composer published Central Park in the Dark alongside a thematically-similar piece titled The Unanswered Question.
  Part 3 (ans: John Philip Sousa ("SOO-zuh")):
    Central Park in the Dark repeatedly quotes the song "Hello! Ma Baby" as well as a piece by this composer of El Capitan and "The Thunderer."

[B10] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer quoted the "minor seventh leap and half step down" theme from the slow movement of Beethoven's "Emperor" Concerto to open his song "There's a Place for Us." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonard Bernstein):
    Name this conductor, composer, and educator who wrote the legendary Broadway flop 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue and symphonies named Jeremiah and the Age of Anxiety.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives (That series of lectures is The Unanswered Question)):
    A televised series of Bernstein lectures was titled for a composition by this other American composer. Bernstein conducted the world premiere of this composer's Symphony No. 2 three years before this man died in 1954.
  Part 3 (ans: joy [or freude]):
    Bernstein's 1989 Berlin concert replaced this word with "freedom" in a line from Beethoven's Symphony No. 9. It titles an "Ode" adapted by Beethoven from a Schiller poem.

[B11] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these composers of unusual piano sonatas, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Pierre Boulez):
    This member of the Darmstadt School wrote that "Schoenberg Is Dead" some four years after composing his twelve-tone Piano Sonata No. 2, whose fourth and final movement is a difficult fugue marked "Vif".
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives]):
    This composer called for a long block of wood to depress a dissonant tone cluster in the "Hawthorne" movement of his Concord Sonata.
  Part 3 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    This composer used four staves for the dense chords in parts of his piano sonata, which, like Ives's piano sonata, was championed by John Kirkpatrick. It was written around the same time as his scores for the ballets Billy the Kid and Rodeo.

[B12] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This tone poem features a pair of pianolas having a "ragtime war" and repeatedly quotes the popular song "Hello ma Baby." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Central Park in the Dark):
    Name this polytonal piece depicting a summer evening, which its composer described as a "contemplation of nothing serious."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives):
    Central Park In The Dark was written by this American composer and insurance executive, who paired it with his The Un
  Part 3 (ans: Concord Sonata [or Piano Sonata No. 2, Concord, Mass., 1840-1860]):
    This other Charles Ives piece quotes Beethoven's Hammerklavier Sonata, and features an optional part for flute, representing Henry Thoreau, in its final movement.

[B13] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these American composers who worked for at least some time in the American Northeast, none of whom are that cacophonous and nightmare-inducing jerk Conlon Nancarrow.
  Part 1 (ans: Roger Sessions [or Roger Huntington Sessions]):
    The trombone plays the first five notes of the B minor scale at the beginning of the Violin Concerto with violin-less orchestra by this composer, who composed eight symphonies and wrote the libretto for an opera with a part-Nahuatl libretto, titled Montezuma.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives]):
    This composer paid homage to Yale sports with his pieces Yale-Princeton Football Game and Calcium Light Night, but is best-known for a piece that depicts the "Housatonic at Stockbridge," titled Three Places in New England.
  Part 3 (ans: William Schuman [or William Howard Schuman]):
    This composer adapted tunes by William Billings, such as "Chester" and "When Jesus Wept," in his New England Triptych, and has an uncannily similar last name to a Romantic composer.

[B14] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about composers who brought American folksong into classical music, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ruth Crawford Seeger):
    Henry Cowell claimed that the third movement of this composer's modernist string quartet was the greatest ever written for such an ensemble. She collaborated with Carl Sandburg, setting several of his poems to music, and compiled a number of books intended to teach folk songs at the elementary level.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives):
    This composer profusely quoted folk, hymn, and patriotic tunes like "Columbia, Gem of the Ocean" in pieces like his "Holidays" Symphony. He also called for the player to hit the keys with a piece of wood in his Concord Sonata.
  Part 3 (ans: Symphony No. 4):
    Ives quoted the hymn "Bethany" both in his unfinished "Universe Symphony" and in this piece which usually requires two conductors to perform due to its incredibly complex polyrhythms.

[B15] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work, like Central Park in the Dark, sets melodies against a background chorale of strings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Unanswered Question ):
    Name this composition, whose main theme is introduced by the trumpet and responded to by a flute quartet.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives):
    The Un
  Part 3 (ans: William Schuman):
    This other composer based his New England Triptych off of hymns by William Billings. He transcribed Ives' piece Variations on "America" from organ to band and wrote a two-movement violin concerto. His Mail Order Madrigals sets text from the 1897 Sears catalog as choral pieces.

[B16] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the first of these works, the English horn melody in the second movement is strongly reminiscent of the English horn melody from Dvorak's Symphony From the New World. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Symphonies by Charles Ives [prompt on partial answer]):
    Name these works by a certain composer that include the first one in D minor as well as an unfinished one that had planned sections titled "Past," "Present," and "Future" and is called the "Universe" one of these works.
  Part 2 (ans: Three Places in New England):
    The sections "Putnam's Camp" and "The Housatonic at Stockbridge" appear in this Ives composition, which depicts a certain region of America.
  Part 3 (ans: Central Park in the Dark):
    This other Ives work is one of the "Two Contemplations." It quotes popular early twentieth century songs like "Washington Post March" and "Hello! Ma Baby."

[B17] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about American composers who depicted places in their music.
  Part 1 (ans: George (or Jacob) Gershwin):
    This composer included four taxi horns in the instrumentation for his tone poem An American in Paris.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives):
    This composer of Three Places in New England sought to capture the "spirit of transcendentalism" or some such crap in his Concord Sonata.
  Part 3 (ans: El Salon Mexico):
    Aaron Copland wrote this one-movement composition depicting a dance hall, incorporating themes from the folk music of the title country.

[B18] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This symphony's final chord consists of all twelve pitches played at once, imitating a sardonic Bronx cheer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Ives' Symphony no. 2):
    Name this five-movement symphony, which was written in 1901, but not premiered until 1951. Its second movement quotes the songs "Wake Nicodemus" and "Bringing in the Sheaves," and its final movement climaxes with a boisterous quotation of "Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean."
  Part 2 (ans: Stephen Foster):
    Ives's second symphony also quotes this composer's song "Old Black Joe." Christy's Minstrels specialized in performances of this composer's songs, such as "Old Folks at Home" and "Camptown Races."
  Part 3 (ans: Michael Tilson Thomas):
    This renowned interpreter of Ives conducted the recording Charles Ives: An American Journey. Since 1995, he has been the music director of the San Francisco Symphony.

[B19] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some 20th-century American composers:
  Part 1 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    This man used a theme from his Fanfare for the Common Man in this third symphony. He is also known for ballets like Appalachian Spring and Rodeo.
  Part 2 (ans: Elliott Carter):
    Like Copland, this composer was a student of Nadia Boulanger. He wrote Eight Etudes and a Fantasy for woodwind quartet, and also composed Night Fantasies for solo piano.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Ives):
    Movements named "Children's Day" and "Communion" appear in this man's third symphony, nicknamed The Camp Meeting. He left his Universe Symphony unfinished at his death.

[B20] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Johnny Reinhard made one of the first performable versions of this man's final symphony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Ives):
    Name this composer of The Unanswered Question who included "Putnam's Camp" and "The Housatonic at Stockbridge" in his Three Places in New England.
  Part 2 (ans: Concord Sonata):
    This Ives piano work repeatedly quotes from Beethoven's fifth symphony, has movements like "Emerson" and "Thoreau," and even includes a part for flute, which Thoreau played.
  Part 3 (ans: quarter-tone or quarter-step):
    Ives also wrote three pieces for two pianos that are tuned this interval apart. Though this interval does not appear in the western twelve-tone scale, they can be produced on string instruments simply by bending a note up or down, and on brass instruments this interval can be achieved with the addition of an extra valve.
