=== STOCK CLUES: William Blake ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 84 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 36 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - /Replacement: Barry Miles and Peter Orlovsky produced a 1969 folk/jazz album based on the poetry of this man.
  - In one poem, a phrase that links an entities' "buildings" to "judgment" is often read to allude to a creation of this man. [PWR]
  - The speaker of one poem remembers memories of this man after he "rushed up enchanted." A "tragedy among the scholars of war" is described by a light of this person in one poem. [PWR]
  - A collection by this author was set to music by (*) Allen Ginsberg after this author apparently appeared to Ginsberg while he was masturbating and read the poem "Ah! [PWR]
  - Sunflower." This poet inspired the description of Moloch in "Howl" by creating a figure that embodies law and order and holds an architect's tools named Urizen.
  - For 10 points, name this poet who inspired Allen Ginsberg with his cosmology of the Four Zoas and poems like "The Sick Rose." [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 MUSES III (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake (The second sentence refers to the Visions of the Daughters of Albion; the fifth sentence refers to The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.)
  - In one section of an epic work by this writer, human bodies are woven by looms in a city built from the primordial Furnaces. [PWR]
  - A short poem by this writer follows a woman who "hid in Leutha's (ley-OO-thaz) Vale" and is sexually assaulted before consummating her marriage to Theotormon (thee-oh-TOR-mon). [PWR]
  - This writer stated, "I must create a system or be enslaved by another man's" in an epic poem that describes the city of Golgonooza and the marriage of the muse (+) Enitharmon (ee-nih-THAR-mon).
  - This writer retold his Book of Ahania from the point of view of a fallen smith in his Book of Los (rhymes with "dose"). [PWR]
  - Aphorisms like "The fox provides for himself, but God provides for the lion" and "Exuberance is beauty" are included in a prophetic book by this writer that begins with the (*) roaring of Rintrah.
  - This writer described how the gods Urthona (ur-THOH-nah), Tharmas, Luvah, and Urizen (you-REE-zen) are emanations of a primordial giant in the book The Four Zoas.
  - For 10 points, name this author who created his own mythology about the downfall of Albion that figures into his epic poems Jerusalem and Milton. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: John Milton [accept "On Not Being John Milton"] (The epic poem is Milton by William Blake.)
  - A poem named for this person refers to "my Cahier d'un retour au pays natal," and quotes, "Tidd the Cato Street conspirator who wrote: / Sir, I Ham a very Bad Hand at Righting." That Tony Harrison poem is titled for "Not Being" this author, who names the meter in which "Poor Poll" and the poems in The Testament of Beauty were written.
  - That "syllabic" meter was developed after a study of this author's use of elision was penned by Robert (*) Bridges.
  - A skylark who turns into the girl Ololon looks for this writer in an epic poem in which he takes the form of a falling star to enter the poet's foot.
  - That epic titled for this writer opens with the line "And did those feet in ancient time," which became the hymn "Jerusalem." For 10 points, A. [GIVE]
  - E.
  - Housman's "Terence This is Stupid Stuff" says that malt "does more" to "justify the ways of God to man" than what author of Paradise Lost?

[T4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: illustrations [accept illustrations for Salome or The Boy's King Arthur; or equivalents; accept book cover illustrations or frontispieces; prompt on title pages by asking "what aspect of the title page?"; prompt on books by asking "what aspect of the book?"] (The second clue is N. C. Wyeth's cover for The Boy's King Arthur. The third clue is William Blake's title page for Songs of Innocence and Experience.)
  - White-edged black circles in the upper left of a work in this genre refer to a comparison of hair to "clusters of black grapes." In another work in this genre, a red-draped horse bears a knight in green raising his sword back over his shoulder in a motion mirrored by another knight.
  - A pair of nudes hunch over at the bottom of a pink-toned work in this genre with curving tendrils of flame stretching across.
  - A figure with snake-like hair floats in the center of a black-and-white ink drawing in this genre.
  - A crouching old man holds a golden compass in a William Blake print in this genre.
  - A girl tries on a shoe in an engraving in this genre by Gustave Dore.
  - Aubrey Beardsley made plates in this genre for Oscar Wilde's Salome.
  - For 10 points, what artistic genre accompanies fairy tales like Cinderella? [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - In one play, a poem by this author is recited by Phaedra, a girl dressed in a fairy costume who ran away from her stepfather. [PWR]
  - Johnny "Rooster" Byron tells tall tales in that play named for a poem by this author and written by Jez Butterworth.
  - A poem by this author describes objects like a "bow of burning gold" and "arrows of desire," and coined the phrase "chariot of fire." Before Sir (*) Hubert Parry turned that poem by this author into a patriotic hymn, it was known by its first line, "And did those feet in ancient times." In another poem, this author describes a creature that is "meek" and "mild" and asks it "Dost thou know who made thee?" For 10 points, name this British poet of "Jerusalem" who included "The Lamb" in his Songs of Innocence. [PWR,GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: translation [or word forms such as translating; accept any more specific answers involving specific forms, languages, works, or authors, such as translating poetry, translating translating into German, translating William Blake, or translatingEugene Onegin]
  - Sophie and Hans meet to have sex and do this action in Hans's inn room throughout Andres Neuman's The Traveler of the Century.
  - Dizzy plans to make a living from this activity, which he introduces to the astrologer Janina in Olga Tokarczuk's Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead.
  - The terms "tilt" and "scud" were introduced in an essay that an author wrote to accompany a product of this action, "Notes on Prosody ." Willa and Edwin Muir  frequently collaborated on this activity, as did the married scholars Pevear and Volokhonsky.
  - Edith Grossman completed an acclaimed instance of this action in 2003.
  - Edmund Wilson hated a work of this type by Vladimir Nabokov, who also performed it on his own Russian works.
  - For 10 points, what action brings works like Don Quixote to anglophone readers? [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: William Blake
  - A painting by this artist literally illustrates a simile about a "naked new-born babe" by depicting a woman on a flying horse reaching down to snatch an infant.
  - Arthur Boyd depicted one of this artist's subjects "on fire falling over a waterfall" after viewing his painting of a mad king with long fingernails crawling on all fours.
  - This artist used the term "fresco" to describe the monotypes he executed on millboards, including his twelve "large color prints." Those prints include Pity, Nebuchadnezzar, and an image of a nude man sitting on a rock and drawing with a compass.
  - This artist of Newton also depicted Urizen using a compass in his The Ancient of Days, a frontispiece for one of his books.
  - For 10 points, name this artist who illustrated his Songs of Innocence and of Experience. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - One of this author's title figures was "taught...to sing the notes of woe" because he "was happy upon the heath." That figure notes in one of this author's poems that they have "gone to praise God and his Priest and King, Who make up a heaven of our misery." A poem by this author describes "thousands of" the title figures named "Dick, Joe, Ned, & Jack... locked up in coffins of black" That poem's protagonist was sold when his (*) "tongue / Could scarcely cry " 'weep! 'weep! 'weep! 'weep!" This author described the ""fearful symmetry" of a beast "burning bright / In the forests of the night" in another poem.
  - For 10 points, name this poet who included two versions of "The Chimney Sweeper" in addition to "The Tyger" in his Songs of Innocence and Experience. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - The speaker of one of this author's poems describes how "mournful lean Despair / Brings me yew to deck my grave".
  - This author described a bard who has heard "The Holy Word / That walk'd among the ancient trees".
  - One poem by this author ends with a character stating that "God and his priest and king" "make up a heaven of our misery." He wrote a poem in which an angel with a bright key opens several coffins to lead "Dick, Joe, Ned, and Jack" to a green plain.
  - Characters cry "'Weep!' 'Weep!'" in that poem by him, about Tom Dacre, whose hair is stained with soot.
  - The speaker of one of his poems describes an animal "burning bright / In the forests of the night." For 10 points, name this English poet who included "The Chimney Sweeper" and "The Tyger" among his Songs of Innocence and Experience. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: William Blake
  - The astrologer John Varley commissioned this artist to render grotesque versions of such people as the occultist Cornelius Agrippa and the murderer Catherine Hayes in the series Visionary Heads.
  - That series inspired this artist to make a miniature painting in which a muscular title animal uses his tongue to lick a bowl of blood.
  - Dante faints in an engraving by this artist, in which Paolo and Francesca are part of a heavenly light and not a whirlwind of sinners.
  - This artist of The Ghost of a Flea and The Lover's Whirlwind also painted a work depicting a blue-skinned monster with seven heads raising a mace and a sword.
  - That painting is "The Beast from the Sea," which, like "Woman Clothed with the Sun," is part of a series by this man named for The Great Red Dragon.
  - A depiction of Urizen as the Ancient of Days was made by, for 10 points, what artist, who also illustrated his books Songs of Innocence and Experience? [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - Harold Bloom argues that the title concepts of one of this man's poetry collections are "not only... satires upon each other, but they exist in a cyclic relation".
  - This writer's mythopoeia includes Rintrah, a rebellious spirit representing wrath, and the celestial Ahania who is a feminine emanation of the cruel god of reason, Urizen.
  - This author of Europe A Prophecy wrote a poem in which the title creature is described as having "softest clothing woolly bright", and asks "Dost thou know who made thee?".
  - A companion poem to that work asks "What immortal hand or eye / Could frame thy fearful symmetry." For 10 points, give this author of the Songs of Innocence and Experience. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: William Blake
  - In one work by this artist, a radiant sun appears at the top of a ribbon-like spiral staircase suspended in a starlit sky.
  - In another work, this man was inspired by lines from Macbeth to show a small child leaping up from a dead body into the arms of a woman on a white flying horse.
  - This artist of Jacob's Ladder and Pity created a series of watercolors about a beast with white stars on its wings who stands oppressively over a lady in bright yellow, described as "the woman clothed with the Sun." This artist of a series about the Great Red Dragon showed one of his own creations, the bearded Urizen, crouching down from the Sun to measure the void with a compass in Ancient of Days.
  - For 10 points, name this English painter who also illustrated his own Songs of Innocence and of Experience. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - The title location of one poem by this author is "filled with graves, and tomb-stones where flowers should be: and priests in black gowns." The first poem in that collection by this author states "I hear the Father of the ancient men" and opens "Earth rais'd up her head, From the darkness dread and drear." This author of "The Garden of Love" and "Earth's Answer" wrote another work about an animal that "found out thy bed of crimson joy, and his dark secret love does thy life destroy." The speaker of another of his poems asks "What the hammer? what the chain, in what furnace was thy brain?"; that poem asks "What immortal hand or eye, dare frame thy fearful symmetry?" For 10 points, name this author whose Songs of Experience contains "The Sick Rose" and "The Tyger." [GIVE]

[T14] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - One of this author's poems contains the metaphor of a "dismal shade" extending over the head of mankind, which is nibbled at by a "caterpillar and fly." This poet described a location where the "sun does never shine," the "fields are bleak and bare,"and the "ways are flled with thorns," stating simply: "It is winter there." He weirdly phrased the line "like the harmonious thunderings of Heaven among" to rhyme with "song" in another poem, which describes characters "walking two and two, in red and blue and green." This poet related that "The Gods of the earth and sea" seek a tree in vain, because "There Grows one in the Human Brain." He beckons the reader to "cherish pity, lest you drive an angel from your door," at the end of a poem describing a procession of children walking into St.
  - Paul's Cathedral.
  - This author wrote about "a little black thing among the snow" who is sold by his father before he could cry "weep! weep! weep! weep!" For 10 points, name this poet of "The Human Abstract," whose "Holy Thursday" and "The Chimney Sweeper" each appear in two contrasting versions in his Songs of Innocence and Experience. [GIVE]

[T15] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: William Blake
  - This artist depicted a bearded king crawling on the floor of a cave with talon-like toenails in his picture of Nebuchadnezzar. [PWR]
  - In one of his pictures, dying men writhe on a woven mat on the floor while Death floats above them. [PWR]
  - In one of this artist's paintings, the title creature stands on a star-studded stage with curtains and extends its tongue towards a bowl of blood in its left hand.
  - The (*) House of Death is an illustration this artist of The Ghost of a Flea made of scenes from Paradise Lost.
  - His most famous illustration shows the bearded title figure leaning out of the sun among the clouds and holding a compass.
  - For 10 points, name this English Romantic who depicted Urizen in The Ancient of Days and illustrated his own The Marriage of Heaven and Hell. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - In contrast to Da Vinci's belief that the navel was the center of the human body, this artist believed that the genitals were the center of the human body, as can be seen in a work depicting a certain figure rising.
  - A white donkey, a flying bat and an owl can be seen along with three women in this artist's Hecate.
  - He also made a series of artworks about a figure carrying the Woman of the Sun.
  - This artist depicted a muscular scientist using a compass in Newton.
  - This artist produced many of his works using a technique called relief etching or illuminated printing.
  - The main figure in his Ancient of Days also uses a compass, but it is instead made of light and is used to create the world.
  - This artist produced works such as The Book of Thel and a series depicting Orc and Urizen.
  - His apocalyptic beliefs led him to create illustrations of The Great Red Dragon as well as the book Europe: A Prophecy.
  - For 10 points, identify this artist, who illustrated Songs of Experience and Songs of Innocence, which are also two books of poetry by him. [GIVE]

[T17] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - This author created a world containing emanations such as Enitharmon and Vala which was divided into parts like Tharmas and Urizen after the division of Albion. [PWR]
  - One of this author's poems asks if the title location "was builded here / Among these ($) dark Satanic Mills" and begins by asking "Did those feet in ancient times / Walk upon England's mountains green?" Another of this author's poems mentions how "thy life" is destroyed by "the dark secret love" of a (*) "invisible worm, / That flies in the night / In the howling storm." For ten points, identify this poet of "Jerusalem" and "The Sick Rose," whose Songs of Experience include "The Tyger." [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Blake
  - In one poem by this author, the speaker says that he will stroke the silver hair of another character, who will then love him. [PWR]
  - That poem's speaker recounts how his mother told him that we are put on earth to "learn to bear the beams of love." He described an "invisible worm, / That flies in the night, / In the howling storm" in a poem in which "his dark secret love / Does thy (*) life destroy." In another poem, he commanded "Bring me my bow of burning gold" and "Bring me my chariot of fire" before proclaiming that he will not cease a mental fight until the title city has been built "In England's green and pleasant land." This author of "The Sick Rose" and "Jerusalem" asked "what art / Could twist the sinews of thy heart" and "What immortal hand or eye / Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?" For 10 points, name this author of "The Tiger" who wrote some Songs of Innocence and Experience. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: George Orwell took the title for his autobiographical essay "Such, Such Were the Joys" from this author's poem "The Echoing Green." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Blake):
    Name this early Romantic poet whose collection Songs of Experience is referenced by the title of Rudyard Kipling's story "Tiger! Tiger!"
  Part 2 (ans: W. Somerset Maugham [or William Somerset Maugham] (The novel is Of Human Bondage.)):
    A phrase from "Ode to a Nightingale" titles this author's short story "The Alien Corn." This author, whose travels in the Pacific inspired the story "Rain," took the title for a long novel from a section of Spinoza's Ethics.
  Part 3 (ans: M. R. James [or Montague Rhodes James]):
    A Robert Burns poem provides the title for "Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad," one of several ghost stories this author set in his native Suffolk.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Bolts join this figure's limbs to his body in an Eduardo Paolozzi (pow-LOHT-zee) sculpture outside the British Library inspired by a print in which this figure sits on an algae-covered rock. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isaac Newton):
    Name this person, who, in that print, is naked and bends down as he uses a compass on an unfurling scroll.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This artist and poet, who made the monotype Newton, illustrated his own poetry collection, Songs of Innocence and Experience.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Wright of Derby (DAR-bee)):
    The central figure of this artist's A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery(AWR-uh-ree) is thought to have been modeled on Newton. This artist also painted An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump.

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the opening of a play, Phaedra recites a poem titled for this city as her voice is drowned out by music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerusalem):
    Name this city that titles a play about the wanted man Rooster set on St. George's Day by Jez Butterworth.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This author, who wrote a "prophetic book" titled Jerusalem: The Emanation of the Giant Albion, inspired Jez Butterworth with a poem that opens "and did those feet in ancient time."
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Butterworth's play The Winterling was a dark homage to this author, who Butterworth said had a "ginormous influence" on him. This author wrote the plays The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.

[B4] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book notes that "To be alone and poor is, in a sense, everybody's fate" in the section "Solitary Confinement." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  The Sense of an Ending [or The Sense of an Ending: Studies in the Theory of Fiction]):
    Name this book by the literary critic Frank Kermode that discusses the effect of apocalyptic thought on literature.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake ):
    The opening epigraph of Kermode's The Sense of an Ending is from this author's poem A Vision of the Last Judgment. Northrop Frye's book Fearful Symmetry is a study of this author of the poem "The Tyger."
  Part 3 (ans: Julian Barnes [or Julian Patrick Barnes]):
    This British author claimed to not know about Frank Kermode's book The Sense of an Ending after he chose the exact same title for a 2011 novel in which Tony Webster's friend Adrian commits suicide.

[B5] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, the River Wye defends "memorable Bards" like Geoffrey of Monmouth from fools "that all Antiquitie defame," while the River Dee criticizes Caesar's "envious pen." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poly-Olbion):
    Name this topographical epic poem published with maps anthropomorphizing the towns and rivers of England and Wales. In "The Aleph," Borges remarks that this "bulky" work is still less boring than Daneri's poetry.
  Part 2 (ans: sonnet sequence [prompt on sonnet or sequence] (The unnamed sequence is Philip Sidney's Astrophil and Stella.)):
    Michael Drayton, the poet of Poly-Olbion, praised the River Anker in Idea, a work in this form. A work in this form begins with a poem in which a Muse tells the speaker to "look in thy heart, and write."
  Part 3 (ans: William Blake):
    The title of Poly-Olbion puns on the name "Albion," which this poet used for his mythology's primordial man. This poet wrote The Marriage of Heaven and Hell and "Jerusalem."

[B6] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect frequently considered light in his designs, as exemplified by his Project for a Metropole. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Etienne-Louis Boullee):
    Name this French neoclassical architect, whose only remaining work in Paris is the Hotel Alexandre.
  Part 2 (ans: Isaac Newton 1.):
    Boullee is perhaps best known for his proposal for a cenotaph to this man, which consists of a massive sphere surrounded by rows of cypress trees.
  Part 3 (ans: William Blake):
    This English artist portrayed Newton as a man bending over himself to draw with a compass. This artist is known for a drawing depicting Urizen crouching against a circular background.

[B7] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem titled for this phrase, "28 reporters and an essayist" write up an animal "imported at great expense from / Kuala Lumpur" who is "indifferent to beauty or brutality." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "fearful symmetry" (The poem is William Blake's "The Tyger.")):
    Give this two-word phrase. A 1794 poem's opening stanza asks, "What immortal hand or eye, / Could frame thy [this two-word phrase]?"
  Part 2 (ans: W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]):
    This poet wondered if any tiger could "drink martinis ... as we do" in the haiku "Symmetries and Asymmetries." This poet also wrote "September 1, 1939."
  Part 3 (ans: Basil Bunting [or Basil Cheesman Bunting]):
    This contemporary of Auden described the "profitable likeness" of a tiger in the poem "Fearful Symmetry." This poet wrote a long autobiographical poem about Northumbria titled Briggflatts.

[B8] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author noted Swinburne's poetic contributions despite the fact that "we do not greatly enjoy" him and "the more serious condemnation" that "at one period ... we did enjoy him and now no longer." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot] (The "immature poets" line is from the essay "Philip Massinger.")):
    Name this author of "Swinburne as Poet" who claimed, "Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal." This author thought the line "Beauty is truth, truth beauty" a "serious blemish" on John Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    Eliot's collection of literary criticism, The Sacred Wood, includes an essay about this author who included "The Lamb" and "The Tyger" in his Songs of Innocence and Experience.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe; accept "Some Notes on the Blank Verse of Christopher Marlowe"] (The play is Doctor Faustus.)):
    Eliot disputes Swinburne's claim that this author was "the father of English tragedy" in "Some Notes on the Blank Verse of" this author. In a play by this author, Helen of Troy is asked to "make me immortal with a kiss."

[B9] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: John Anster Fitzgerald's nightmarish, drug-fueled paintings enjoyed success during the Victorian-era craze for paintings of these creatures. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fairies [or fay or faeries or fair folk; accept fairy painting]):
    What mythical beings feature in paintings of scenes from A Midsummer Night's Dream, such as Joseph Noel Paton's The Quarrel of Oberon and Titania?
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    Fairies dance around Oberon, Titania, and Puck in a watercolor by this artist, who also painted creatures like The Ghost of a Flea and the Great Red Dragon. Urizen appears as The Ancient of Days on one of his frontispieces.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Dadd):
    This artist's ovular painting Contradiction shows a chaotic quarrel between Titania and Oberon. This founder of the art group The Clique painted The Fairy Feller's Master-Stroke while interred in an asylum for murdering his father.

[B10] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about antinatalism in British poetry, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: William Blake):
    This author's "Infant Sorrow" is told from the perspective of a "helpless, naked, piping loud" baby who is extremely unhappy to be born. His other poems about children include "The Little Black Boy."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    The warning "get out as early as you can / and don't have any kids yourself" ends this poet's "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: Louis MacNeice [or Frederick Louis MacNeice]):
    An unborn child fears "those who would freeze my humanity" in this poet's "Prayer Before Birth," which was one of several poems in which he implicitly criticized Ireland's neutrality during World War II.

[B11] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Lorna Simpson's photograph Waterbearer is paired with an excerpt from this writer that says, "She saw him disappear by the river. They asked her to tell what happened, only to discount her memory." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Phillis Wheatley [or Phillis Wheatley Peters]):
    Name this poet who described being transported to America as a slave in "On Being Brought from Africa to America."
  Part 2 (ans: chimney-sweeper [or equivalents like sweeping chimneys] (The second poem is by William Blake.)):
    In Robert Hayden's poem "A Letter from Phillis Wheatley," a boy asks Wheatley if she works in this job. Tom Dacre works in this job in a poem whose speaker is sold before he can cry "'weep! 'weep! 'weep!"
  Part 3 (ans: Yusef Komunyakaa [prompt on James William Brown]):
    This poet's "Lament and Praise Song" envisions Wheatley "on the streets of Cambridge, / in her heroic couplets." This poet contemplates the names on the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in the poem "Facing It."

[B12] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A book titled for this place envisions the utopian city Golgonooza and has a frontispiece that depicts Los entering the Door of Death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerusalem [or Yerushalayim or al-Quds; accept Jerusalem: The Emanation of the Giant Albion]):
    Name this city that titles a prophetic book that describes the fall of the giant Albion. This city also titles Hubert Perry's musical setting of a poem that begins "and did those feet in ancient time."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This poet and artist incorporated his personal mythology into his book Jerusalem. This poet's collection Songs of Innocence and of Experience includes his poem "The Tyger."
  Part 3 (ans: "dark Satanic mills"):
    Blake's poem "Jerusalem" asks if the title city was built among places described by this specific three word phrase, alluding to Blake's distrust of the nascent Industrial Revolution.

[B13] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In Les Miserables, the plucky orphan Gavroche ("gah-VROSH") sings a ditty that repeats "Tis the fault of [one of these two people]...Tis the fault of [the other of them]" while being shot at by soldiers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Voltaire [or Francois-Marie Arouet] AND Jean-Jacques Rousseau):
    Name these two people who are told, "You throw the sand against the wind / And the wind blows it back again" in a poem that taunts them to "mock on."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This poet of "Mock on, Mock on, Voltaire, Rousseau" described the "fiery cloud of Voltaire, and thund'rous rocks of Rousseau" in his poem "The French Revolution." This poet also wrote "The Chimney Sweeper."
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Isaac Newton):
    Blake's "Mock On, Mock On" declares that the ideas of Democritus and this person "are sands upon the Red sea shore / Where Israel's tents do shine so bright." A line by Alexander Pope declares that "God said 'Let [this person] be,' and all was light."

[B14] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author exclaims "Let them weep! let them weep!" and describes children who are "binding up their hearts away from breaking, / With a cerement from the grave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett Browning or Elizabeth Barrett Moulton-Barrett; prompt on Browning]):
    Name this poet who criticized child labor conditions in the poem "The Cry of the Children." This poet also wrote the abolitionist dramatic monologue "The Runaway Slave at Pilgrim's Point."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    "A little black thing among the snow" cries "weep! 'weep!" in this poet's "The Chimney Sweeper" which is collected in his Songs of Innocence and of Experience.
  Part 3 (ans: Trollope [accept Frances Milton Trollope; accept Anthony Trollope]):
    An author with this surname wrote about a boy who escapes from an industrial mill in the novel Michael Armstrong, the Factory Boy. Another author with this surname wrote the Chronicles of Barsetshire series.

[B15] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building includes a massive work in which Mary and Christ are surrounded by over 300 figures, including a portrait of the artist as Saint Bartholomew holding his own skin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sistine Chapel):
    Identify this building in which Michelangelo painted his massive Last Judgment fresco, and he painted this building's ceiling.
  Part 2 (ans: Hans Memling):
    Saint Michael wears armor and holds scales to judge the dead in this artist's Last Judgment triptych, which ended up in Danzig after pirates stole it.
  Part 3 (ans: William Blake):
    This artist's A Vision of the Last Judgement was lost but reconstructed by the artist in a letter to Ozias Humphrey. Other paintings made by this artist depict his visions of the god Urizen as well as the Great Red Dragon.

[B16] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the two authors who won the Nobel Prize in Literature just last month. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Handke):
    This Austrian novelist and winner of the 2019 prize collaborated with director Wim Wenders to turn his novels The Goalkeeper's Anxiety at the Penalty Kick and Wings of Desire into movies.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    The Polish winner of the 2018 award, Olga Tokarczuk ("toh-KAR-chook"), borrowed the title of her novel Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead from the "Proverbs of Hell" of this poet's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
  Part 3 (ans: pick up your pen (s) [accept "Citizens of the world, pick up your pens!" or "Black Spring! Pick up your pen, and weeping"):
    A vignette from Tokarczuk's Flights about the Muslim woman Jasmine instructs the "citizens of the world" to perform this action. Boris Pasternak's "Black Spring" orders the reader to perform this action and "weep."

[B17] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's main character forces his former friend Wesley to perform a Morris dance in exchange for cocaine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerusalem):
    Name this 2009 play by Jez Butterworth about a caravan of misfits led by the aging Johnny "Rooster" Byron, who is being threatened with dispossession by the Kennet and Avon council.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    Jerusalem is named for a poem by this author which begins "And did those feet in ancient time / Walk about England's mountains green." This mystic also wrote The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
  Part 3 (ans: "dark Satanic mills" [prompt on partial answer]):
    The second stanza of Blake's "Jerusalem" asks "And was Jerusalem builded here / among" these places. Critics have usually interpreted these places as references to the factories of the Industrial Revolution.

[B18] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Aldous Huxley's relationship with drugs, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: soma):
    In Brave New World, this population-placating drug is described as having "all the advantages of Christianity and alcohol and none of their defects."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    Huxley's description of a mescaline trip makes up the bulk of his book The Doors of Perception, which takes its title from this author's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
  Part 3 (ans: The Devils of Loudun):
    Huxley wrote about drugs as an avenue of escape in the epilogue to this non-fiction novel about Urbain Grandier, who was accused of being responsible for the demonic possession of a group of Ursuline nuns.

[B19] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his depiction of the gates of Hell, this artist puzzlingly shows a series of four hills on the other side which shouldn't be there. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: William Blake):
    This English artist's last commission was a complete illustration of Dante's Divine Comedy. Throughout the illustrations, this artist pays a characteristic attention to the musculature of the human body also seen in his monotype of Newton with a compass.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Dore):
    This artist's depiction of Farinata was used by Steve Bell in a cartoon in The Guardian on the day after the death of Margaret Thatcher. In another of this artist's illustrations to the Comedy, Dante leans over a pair of feet which are surrounded by smoke.
  Part 3 (ans: Salvador Dali):
    This artist's depiction of 'the Blasphemers' consists of a skull stretched diagonally across an empty landscape before flowing over the edge of a ledge in a similar way to objects in his painting The Persistence of Memory.

[B20] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This print was the basis for a bronze sculpture by pop artist Eduardo Paolozzi (pow-LOHT-see), found in the piazza (pee-AHT-sah) outside the British Library. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Newton):
    Name this monotype that depicts the title man naked, seated on a mossy rock while writing on a scroll with a compass.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This British artist of Newton depicted Urizen crouching in front of the sun holding a giant compass beneath him in The Ancient of Days, which originated as the frontispiece of his book Europe a Prophecy.
  Part 3 (ans: watercolor [or aquarelle]):
    Blake often colored his etchings using this method, in which paints are made from pigments suspended in an aqueous mixture.

[B21] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This figure is the primary subject of four paintings, one of which depicts him astride a blue five-headed "beast from the sea." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Great Red Dragon [prompt on "dragon" or "red dragon";]):
    Name this figure shown before a muscular white man pointing to the viewer's left in the painting The Number of the Beast Is 666.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This English artist painted the Great Red Dragon series. He invented a form of relief etching using copper plates and acid to produce illustrations for his poems, which include The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
  Part 3 (ans: Woman Clothed in Sun [or Woman Clothed with the Sun; accept The Great Red Dragon and the Woman Clothed with the Sun or The Great Red Dragon and the Woman Clothed in Sun]):
    Two of Blake's Great Red Dragon paintings depict the dragon with this angelic figure with golden wings.

[B22] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "There are two things scarce matched in the Universe: the Sun in Heaven and the Thames on Earth." For 10 points each, answer some questions on the River Thames in poetry.
  Part 1 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet writes in "Remembrance of Collins" that in the Thames's waters "may be seen / The image of a poet's heart".
  Part 2 (ans: "Composed upon Westminster Bridge, September 3, 1802"):
    This poem by Wordsworth describes how the Thames "glideth at his own sweet will", and how "Earth has not anything to show more fair" than London viewed from the poem's title landmark.
  Part 3 (ans: William Blake):
    Not everyone shared Wordsworth's views. In one poem, this poet claimed to see "in every face I meet / Marks of weakness, marks of woe" when wandering "near where the chartered Thames doth flow".

[B23] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's speaker vows not to "cease from mental fight" until we have built the title city "in England's green and pleasant land." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Jerusalem"):
    Name this poem that denounces the country's "dark Satanic Mills" and opens "and did those feet in ancient time / walk upon England's mountains green?" It was written as a preface to its author's epic Milton: A Poem.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This English poet and artist wrote "Jerusalem." Northrop Frye's study of this author, Fearful Symmetry, takes its title from this man's poem "The Tyger."
  Part 3 (ans: chariot of fire [accept chariots of fire; prompt on "chariots"]):
    In the third stanza of "Jerusalem," the speaker calls on the addressee to bring to him "my bow of burning gold," "my arrows of desire," "my spear," and this object, which is denoted by a three-word phrase taken from 2 Kings 2:11 ("Second Kings chapter 2, verse 11").

[B24] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Thomas Wolfe story titled in reference to this poem, Spangler recounts the sudden killing spree of an African American man named Dick Prosser. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Tyger" (by William Blake)):
    Name this poem. A phrase from this poem titles a critical study whose style of symbolic analysis was expanded on by its author, Northrop Frye, in Anatomy of Criticism.
  Part 2 (ans: Look Homeward, Angel):
    The author of "The Child by Tiger," Thomas Wolfe, also wrote this novel about North Carolina-resident Eugene Gant. This novel was followed in a trilogy by Time and the River and The Web and the Rock.
  Part 3 (ans: autobiography [or autobiographical novel; or memoirs]):
    The original draft of Look Homeward, Angel was called O Lost and was intended to be a book of this type. Alex Haley ghost-wrote one of these books about Malcolm X.

[B25] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this book, the protagonist encounters fairies such as "Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby" and Mother Carey. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Water Babies, A Fairy Tale for a Land Baby):
    Name this children's book in which the protagonist, a chimney sweep named Tom, drowns and is transformed into one of the title beings, in an odd melding of both religion and evolution, which this book was written in support of.
  Part 2 (ans: Ireland [or Eire]):
    The author of The Water Babies, the Reverend Charles Kingsley, referred to people living on this island as "white chimpanzees", referring to a common British stereotype. Oscar Wilde was born on this island.
  Part 3 (ans: William Blake):
    "The Chimney Sweeper" is the title of two poems written by this man. In one of these poems, a youthful speaker describes an angel who rescues the young boys who work as chimney sweepers, while in the other poem, an adult encounters a child chimney sweep abandoned in the snow.
