=== STOCK CLUES: Albrecht Dürer ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 85 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer's Self-Portrait at Twenty-Eight [accept Albrecht Durer's 1500 Self-Portrait; accept Selbstbildniss in place of "Self-Portrait"; prompt on Self-Portrait or Selbstbildniss] (Joachim Camerarius and Karel van Mander both referred to Durer's hair in the portrait.)
  - Camerarius questioned the freehand creation of a part of this painting that was mistakenly described by Karel van Mander as gilded.
  - Joseph Koerner connects this painting to Cusanus's thought and acheiropoieta  like the sudarium of St.
  - Veronica, and mentions a lost gouache -on-cambric piece that the artist sent to Raphael.
  - This painting in the Alte Pinakothek  was created in the year of a cultural revival planned by Conrad Celtis, whose assistant composed its Latin inscription mentioning "coloribus aetatis." This portrait's artist eschewed the three-quarters view he used for earlier works in silverpoint that feature a thistle, instead using a frontal view.
  - This portrait's subject grasps his fur robe, with his Christlike hair shown next to the date 1500 and the artist's monogram.
  - For 10 points, name this portrait at age 28 of, and by, a German engraver. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht [accept Albrecht Altdorfer or Albrecht Durer; accept Albert; accept Alberto] (The first painting is Durer's St. Jerome in the Wilderness.)
  - An artist with this first name depicted a red comet on the back of a painting that features a lion based on Venetian emblems. [PWR]
  - A pathetic red dragon fights St. [PWR]
  - George in the bottom right of a lush forest scene by an artist with this first name. [PWR]
  - The Sun sets over a distant Nile River in a world landscape by an artist with this first name inspired by the Battle of Vienna. [PWR]
  - An artist with this first name led the Danube School and included a giant suspended (*) tablet explaining his painting The Battle of Alexander at Issus. [PWR]
  - An angel praying next to a polyhedron and a lion sleeping below a monk writing the Vulgate are two "master prints" by an artist with this first name.
  - For 10 points, give this first name shared by the painter surnamed Altdorfer and the engraver Durer. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer self-portraits [prompt on partial]
  - Note to players: Name of artist and type of work required Vasari notes that a lost one of these works was sent to Raphael 'executed in gouache [gwaash] on transparent cambric, so that the design appeared the same on both sides'. [PWR]
  - In one of these works, a detailed reflection of a window can be seen in an eye. [PWR]
  - In an earlier one of these works, produced on parchment for its artist's betrothal, the subject is holding a sprig of sea-holly, or thistle. [PWR]
  - The chronologically second of the three surviving painted examples of these works, depicting its subject with a black and white hat sitting by a window, was painted in (*) 1498. [PWR]
  - The last known one of these paintings was designed to reflect the iconography of Salvator Mundi, and portrays its subject frontally with the artist's monogram and the date 1500 left of their long flowing hair and fur collar.
  - That Christ-inspired work depicts their artist at age 28.
  - For 10 points, name these works depicting the artist of Knight, Death and the Devil. [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer
  - This artist's Diary of His Journey in the Netherlands recounts the detour to Zeeland that resulted in his watercolor of a Head of a Walrus. [PWR]
  - The Getty Museum pairs this artist's quote that "art is omnipresent in nature" with his drawing of a stag beetle. [PWR]
  - Among this artist's many works in the Albertina museum is a highly naturalistic watercolor of a Young Hare. [PWR]
  - He drew on first-hand accounts from Lisbon, despite (*) never seeing the title creature himself, for a sketch showing the title Indian animal with a body resembling plate armor. [PWR]
  - In another of this artist's works, a lion slumbers in the foreground as the title saint transcribes the Vulgate.
  - A sketch of a Rhinoceros and a grayscale version of Saint Jerome in His Study were done by, for 10 points, what German engraver of Melencolia I? [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer
  - This artist depicted six horses, each accompanied by a wreath-bearing woman, pulling a king surrounded by four cardinal virtues in an ornate chariot. [PWR]
  - A group of merchants living in Venice commissioned a painting by this artist that depicts St. [PWR]
  - Dominic handing out flower crowns to worshippers. [PWR]
  - This artist of Large Triumphal Carriage and Feast of the Rosary used passages from Martin Luther's translation of the Bible to accompany a diptych  currently housed at the (*) Alte Pinakothek . [PWR]
  - This artist of The Four Apostles completed a work that shows a skull on the windowsill and a lion and dog sleeping on the floor as the title haloed man writes.
  - In another of his works, a lizard runs to the right beneath a skeletal figure and an armored man, both on horseback.
  - For 10 points, name this German artist of prints like St. [GIVE]
  - Jerome in His Study and Knight, Death, and the Devil.

[T6] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Durer [accept Albrecht Durer or Albrecht Durer the Elder or Barbara Durer]
  - A "diptych" depicting a married couple with this surname positions them in three-quarters view against a muted green background, clutching rosary beads.
  - An artist with this surname contributed illustrations to his godfather's publication of a Hartmann Schedel book during his time apprenticed to Michael Wolgemut . [PWR]
  - The "old crow" Agnes Frey married an artist with this surname, who used a sheet of handmade blue paper for a sketch of an apostle's hands clasped in (*) prayer.
  - A person with this surname appears as an effeminate man wearing a pair of silk gloves and a low-cut chemise , and again, Christ-like, in a fur-trimmed coat, in a pair of self-portraits completed at ages 26 and 28, respectively.
  - That artist with this surname positioned a magic square and an hourglass above a brooding, winged figure in a 1514 "master print." For 10 points, give this surname of the engraver of Melencolia I , Albrecht. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer (The clues are all about his 1500 self-portrait.)
  - Georg Vischer used one of this artist's paintings as the model for Christ in his painting of Christ and the woman taken in adultery.
  - Art historians have debated the proper translation of the Latin word proprius in an inscription composed by Conrad Celtes' secretary for a painting by this artist. [PWR]
  - That painting by this artist is often compared to his Christ as Man of Sorrows. [PWR]
  - A Robert Mapplethorpe ["maple"-thorp] photograph simply titled "Patti Smith" imitates a self-portrait by this artist.
  - In a self-portrait, this artist is flanked by his (*) initials and an inscription saying that he "painted [himself] with indelible colors," both written in gold paint. [PWR]
  - That self-portrait, which he painted just before his 29th birthday, shows him wearing a coat with a fur collar.
  - For 10 points, name this German artist who controversially adopted the iconography of Christ for a 1500 self-portrait in which he holds his hand up to his chest. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Durer's Rhinoceros [accept any answer mentioning Albrecht Durer and rhinoceros; prompt on partial answers]
  - Recreations of this artwork include a statue by Salvador Dali in Puerto Banus depicting its subject "dressed in lace," an engraving on the door of the Pisa Cathedral, and a chiaroscuro piece by Willem Janssen.
  - An engraving by Philippe Galle depicting a subject known as "Abada" is similar to this work.
  - An inscription at the top of this work, which notes that its subject is "fast, lively, and cunning" and has the color of a "speckled tortoise," was largely drawn from a text by Pliny the Elder.
  - This work's subject was originally given to Afonso de Albuquerque by Sultan Muzaffar Shah II and was later sent as a gift from Manuel I of Portugal to Pope Leo X.
  - The artist never saw the subject of this work, which was the first of its kind in Europe since the 3rd century.
  - Anatomically incorrect armored plates are shown protecting the subject of, for 10 points, what woodcut of a single-horned ungulate by the artist of Melencolia I? [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer
  - This artist drew his face, an enlarged hand, and a pillow on the front side of a sheet and six studies of pillows on the back. [PWR]
  - A self-portrait by this artist features the words "My affairs will go as ordained on high" and may reference his marriage to Agnes Frey with a plant whose name means "husband's fidelity." A sketch depicts this artist naked, pointing at his abdomen under the caption "Where the yellow spot is located...there it hurts." This artist depicted himself holding a paper noting that the work took him 5 months to complete in the right background of his Feast of the Rosary. [PWR]
  - This artist of a self-portrait "holding a thistle" also painted himself (*) flamboyantly dressed in a low-necked shirt and a tasseled hat in a self-portrait "at 26." A self-portrait by this artist evokes icons of Christ due to his piercing stare, blessing-like hand gesture, and long, wavy hair.
  - For 10 points, name this German artist who signed his self-portraits with with "AD" monogram. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer
  - This artist's signature hangs from a branch clutched by a parrot, which is held in Adam's hand, in one of this artist's depictions of Adam and Eve.
  - He used his wife Agnes as a model for a painting of St.
  - Anne.
  - Konrad Celtis stands next to a self-portrait of this artist in a painting by him that shows the massacre of Roman forces at Mount Ararat by the army of Shapur I.
  - A gourd hangs from the rafters in the upper-right corner of a painting by him in which a dog and a lion lie sleeping together.
  - This painter of The Martyrdom of the Ten Thousand showed a rhombohedron near a ladder, leaning against a wall that features a magic square, in a painting in which a moping angel holds a compass.For 10 points, name this German artist of the engravings St. [GIVE]
  - Jerome in His Study and Melancolia I.

[T11] 2015 VICO (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer
  - A classic monograph on this thinker analogized his career to "the effect of two interfering waves of light or sound in physics," and thus divided this artist's career into short segments like "Five Years of Rational Synthesis." This thinker was probably the first person to depict solids using "nets." One of his most famous works fused iconographic depictions of the vice of sloth and the art of geometry, while another of his works may have been inspired by Erasmus's (*) Handbook. [PWR]
  - Erwin Panofsky summarized this artist's contradictions by noting that, although he "subjected the human body to a system of lines and circles no less rigid than a construction in Euclid" in works like Four Books on Human Proportion, this artist had "a devotion...akin to religious worship" in painting "every grass and herb in a piece of turf" and "every hair in the fur of a little hare." The title winged figure holds a compass and rests her head on her fist underneath an hourglass and a magic square in an engraving by this artist.
  - For 10 points, name this German Renaissance creator of Knight, Death, and the Devil and Melencolia I. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer [1]
  - The wings of an altarpiece by this painter use heraldry featuring a red cross and a stag's head below an image of the crucifixion to represent the saints George and Eustace, whose faces were modeled on the donors Lukas and Stephan. [PWR]
  - A bag of coins sits in the hands of an old woman with missing teeth and a sagging breast hanging out of her red dress in this artist's Avarice. [PWR]
  - In an early self-portrait, this artist of the Paumgartner Altarpiece sits by a window wearing a fancy black-and-white shirt and cap influenced by his trip to Italy, while an even earlier self-portrait shows him in a red tasseled cap and holding a (*) thistle in his hand. [PWR]
  - The Habsburg crest sits in the corner of this man's depiction of the pomegranate-holding Maximilian I, who was this artist's patron in his late years.
  - This man's best-known self-portrait shows him with long hair, touching the fur of his coat as he makes a hand gesture alluding to Christ.
  - For 10 points, name this German portraitist also known for woodcuts like Melencolia I. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer's woodcuts [prompt on woodcuts; prompt on Durer's prints]
  - Two sets of these images by this artist were accompanied by Neo-Latin verses penned by Benedict Chelidonius.
  - One of these artworks, which amusingly contains a waterspout with a rooster on the handle, a flute player, and a beer drinker, is titled The Men's Bath House.
  - The creator of these artworks sued Marcantonio Raimondi for ripping them off and using the artist's signature.
  - Most of these artworks by this artist appear in series such as the Great Passion and the Little Passion.
  - A bow and empty scales are carried by Pestilence and Famine in the most famous of them.
  - For 10 points, name these images, such as The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, that were carved onto plant tissue by the Renaissance German artist of Melancolia I. [GIVE]

[T14] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Durer
  - This man kneels with Raphael before the throne of art in a Franz Pforr painting from the Nazarene school.
  - One of this man's own works shows a ball with the letters OGH written on it above four nude women.
  - This artist painted a portrait of his mother holding a rosary, which is often grouped together with a similar portrait of his father.
  - This artist of The Four Witches also painted The Holy Family with the Dragonfly and a study of a pair of praying hands.
  - His realistic watercolor paintings of nature include Young Hare and the botanically-improbable Great Piece of Turf.
  - This creator of a fifteen-work series on the Book of Revelation created a work in which Death holds an hourglass while one of the other title figures rides by on a horse, as well as one which features a prominent magic square.
  - For 10 points, name this German woodcut artist behind Knight, Death and the Devil and Melencolia I. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist collaborated with Matthias Grunewald ("GRUH-nuh-vald") on the Heller Altarpiece. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer (The engravings are Saint Jerome in his Study and Melancolia I.)):
    Name this artist who depicted a dog and lion sleeping before a studying saint in one work. Another work by this artist shows an angel brooding next to a rhombohedron.
  Part 2 (ans: landscapes [or landscape paintings or Landschaft; accept world landscapes or Weltlandschaft]):
    Durer added a large lake in his Landauer Altarpiece as an homage to Albrecht Altdorfer, an artist known for this genre of paintings that depict the natural scenery of an environment.
  Part 3 (ans: Dresden [accept Dresden Altarpiece; accept Dresden Triptych]):
    The central panel of Durer's first altarpiece, named for this city, features a scene of Mary Adoring the Child. Mary sits on a throne draped with an oriental carpet in a triptych named for this non-Ghent city by Jan van Eyck.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 1955, an artist tried to bait one of these animals to attack copies of Vermeer's painting The Lacemaker while painting with bread crusts balancing on his head. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rhinoceros [accept, BUT DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL Durer's Rhinoceros]):
    Name these animals, one of whom was gifted from Manuel I to Pope Leo X and is depicted wearing a breastplate with rivets in a 1515 woodcut.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Salvador Dali's rhino obsession began with this German engraver's inaccurate woodcut. Unfinished geometric designs lay about a workshop in Melancholia I, an engraving by this artist of Knight, Death, and the Devil.
  Part 3 (ans: George Stubbs):
    This artist created a 1790 painting of an alcoholic rhino owned by Gilbert Pidcock. This British painter of horses once smacked his subject Whistlejacket over the head with a palette when the animal attacked his painting.

[B3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a notoriously ugly Nuremberg sculpture inspired by this artist, a huge hare with a golden eye topples off a box. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Name this artist of the remarkably realistic 1502 watercolor The Young Hare, which is similar to his unfinished preparatory sketches like Praying Hands.
  Part 2 (ans: Vienna [or Wien] (The cathedral is St. Stephen's Cathedral.)):
    In 2020, an excavation above a cathedral gift shop in this city revealed an underdrawing by Durer, despite there being no record of him visiting. The Young Hare is one of over 100 Durer works held in this city's Albertina Museum.
  Part 3 (ans: Ship of Fools [or Das Narrenschiff; or Stultifera Navis; or Daß Narrenschyff ad Narragoniam]):
    Another Nuremberg sculpture depicts a skeleton and a dog as tributes to Durer's woodcuts for this literary work as a journeyman in Basel. Anonymous artists like the "Master of the Haintz Narr" are credited for the third of this work's illustrations not by Durer.

[B4] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 4x4 magic square summing to 34 appears in a work by this artist that also features a peculiar polyhedron with two visible irregular pentagonal faces. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer [or Ajtosi Adalbert ("eye-TOW-shee")]):
    Name this artist who created that etching, Melancholia I, for his Meisterstiche ("MEYST-ur-STISH-uh") or "master engravings," along with Knight, Death and the Devil and Saint Jerome in His Study.
  Part 2 (ans: Erwin Panofsky):
    This art historian wrote repeatedly about Melancholia, including in his biography The Life and Art of Albrecht Durer. He is also known for his magisterial study of Early Netherlandish Painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Nemesis (The Great Fortune)):
    In this other Durer engraving, the title winged deity holds a bridle and the "cup of reward" while balancing atop a small sphere floating above a rural landscape.

[B5] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A watercolor landscape by this artist shows a group of broken tree trunks separated from a grove of living pines by a pond. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Name this artist whose other watercolor landscapes include The Water Drawing Mill. This man painted several watercolors showing deserted courtyards in Innsbruck Castle while traveling to Italy.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    This other German artist painted what is considered one of the earliest pure landscapes on oil. That work by this artist shows the titular footbridge between a gatehouse and a larch tree.
  Part 3 (ans: rivers [accept Danube School or Hudson River School]):
    Altdorfer was part of a school of landscape painting named for one of these geographic features. An American movement named after one of these things included Thomas Cole.

[B6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Bill Viola recreated a painting by this artist as a video piece in which a pregnant woman whispers, "Can you help me?" to an older woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacopo Pontormo [or Jacopo da Pontormo or Jacopo Carrucci]):
    Name this Renaissance artist of The Visitation, who depicted a crowd of figures clad in pale blues, oranges, and pinks surrounding the body of Christ in his Deposition from the Cross.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Pontormo's The Visitation copies the composition of its four figures from this artist's Four Witches. This German artist signed engravings like Knight, Death and the Devil with his trademark "AD" monogram.
  Part 3 (ans: Cosimo de' Medici [or Cosimo I de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany; or Cosimo I; prompt on Cosimo; prompt on Medici]):
    Pontormo's Portrait of a Halbedier has been claimed to depict this leader as a youth. Pontormo's adopted son, Bronzino, painted this ruler's wife wearing an ornately-brocaded dress and served as his court painter.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A letter in Jan van Eyck's small panel portrait of this figure implies that the painting actually depicts Niccolo Albergati. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: St. Jerome [accept the Vision of St. Jerome or St. Jerome in his Study]):
    Name this figure, who wears only a red loincloth in a painting titled for his "Vision." The same Mannerist artist depicted this figure standing near marble columns in the bottom right of another painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio [or Domenico di Tommaso Curradi di Doffo Bigordi]):
    This artist's St. Jerome in his Study for the church of Ognissanti shares many similarities with van Eyck's painting. This artist's Adoration of the Shepherds depicts a line of visitors walking along a narrow cliffside trail to meet Jesus, who rests in front of a grey sarcophagus.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer [or Albrecht Durer or Albrecht Duerer]):
    This German engraver depicted St. Jerome in his Study in one of his "Master Prints," which also include his Knight, Death, and the Devil.

[B8] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the Last Supper scene at the center of an altarpiece named for this town, an artist inserted a portrait of himself as a waiter and a portrait of a priest as one of the apostles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wittenberg):
    Name this town inhabited by a man who is shown wearing a floppy black hat in a 1529 portrait. An artist from this town used a winged-serpent signature and painted Adam and Eve against a black background.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [or Lucas Cranach der Altere]):
    That portrait of Martin Luther is by this sometime Mayor of Wittenberg, who also painted The Stag Hunt of Elector Frederick the Wise. He is known as the "Elder" to distinguish him from his son, an artist of the same name.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    The Lutheran Church officially venerates Cranach the Elder and this other artist on April 6. This artist became a rival of Cranach the Elder due to the success of his woodcuts, like Melencolia I and Knight, Death, and the Devil.

[B9] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first artwork to include this feature was a depiction of The Holy Family named for the tiny insect in its bottom right, and it also appears on the cover of the Four Books on Human Proportion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer's monogram [or Albrecht Durer's initials; accept answers that mention an A and a D; accept anything that mentions Albrecht Durer and words like symbol; prompt on Albrecht Durer's signature]):
    Name this feature that an artist was given exclusive rights to in a successful suit against Marcantanio Raimondi over his copies of it. This feature is unusually absent in a plaque under a parrot in a depiction of Adam and Eve.
  Part 2 (ans: the Devil [or Knight, Death, and the Devil; or Ritter, Tod und Teufel]):
    Raimondi had dastardly copied over 70 of Durer's engravings. Thankfully, Durer sued him before he could copy his "master" engraving depicting a knight, death, and this third title figure who is given a goat's head.
  Part 3 (ans: Bellini [accept Giovanni Bellini]):
    In Venice, Durer befriended a member of this family named Giovanni who painted The Feast of the Gods. Although Antonello da Messina did not introduce oil paint to Venice, he still influenced that artist from this family.

[B10] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about a famous artist:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    This German artist's watercolour works include one depicting a young hare and another titled "The Large Piece of Turf", but they're perhaps better known for engravings such as "Melencolia I" and "Knight, Death, and the Devil".
  Part 2 (ans: St. Jerome in his Study (oder Der Heilige Hieronymus im Gehaus)):
    Another notable engraving by Durer is this one, which depicts the author of the Vulgate bent over his desk while a lion and dog sleep in front of him.
  Part 3 (ans: Rhinoceros):
    In 1515 Durer made a woodcut depicting one of these animals which hadn't been seen alive in Europe since Roman times. Durer's depiction gives the animal skin like plated armor and was generally wacky enough for Salvador Dali to make a sculpture of it.

[B11] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This method of analysis is described as the search for "intrinsic meaning or content" beyond mere "knowledge of literary sources" in a 1939 book that studies humanist themes throughout the Renaissance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: iconology):
    Name this concept that is the third level of Erwin Panofsky's art historical method. It analyzes why an artist chose to represent textual references like Christian imagery the way they did, building on the lower level of iconography.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    After writing Studies in Iconology, Panofsky wrote a book on this German Renaissance printmaker. Panofsky drew on Erasmus's Handbook of a Christian Knight to analyze this artist's woodcut Knight, Death, and the Devil.
  Part 3 (ans: Aby Warburg ("VAR-boork")):
    While iconology was popularized by Panofsky, this art historian was the first to use the term. He established a private library in Hamburg that moved to London, and tried tracing the development of symbols through the Renaissance with his Mnemosyne ("nih-MOSS-in-ee") Atlas, a series of wooden panels displaying over nine hundred photographs.

[B12] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one work, this artist depicted Barteil Flatheads in front of a flowering aubergine plant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Utagawa/Ando Hiroshige):
    Name this artist of the series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo, which was completed by his son of the same name.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Probably the most notable European exponent of the woodcut was this German Renaissance artist who used the technique for multiple series of Bible illustrations. He also engraved Knight, Death, and the Devil.
  Part 3 (ans: Gwen Mary Raverat):
    This English artist used woodcuts to produce the Six Rivers around London series and the original illustrations for The Cambridge Book of Poetry for Children. She also wrote the memoir Period Piece.

[B13] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Three cartoonishly-rendered examples of these animals accompany the Holy Family in a 1496 woodcut. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Young Hare [or jackrabbit; or Lepus; do not accept "rabbit"]):
    Name this animal, the subject of an extremely-detailed watercolor often grouped with its artist's similarly-realistic Great Piece of Turf.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    This pre-eminent early 16th-century German artist painted Young Hare and made such engravings as Knight, Death, and the Devil and Melencolia I.
  Part 3 (ans: Adam and Eve):
    Durer's Young Hare was a preliminary study for his 1504 engraving of these two people, whom he depicted using Vitruvian proportions. Durer later painted these two people in the first full-scale nude in German art.

[B14] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Three members of this group from Nuremberg, including Georg Pencz, were dubbed "godless painters" and imprisoned for promulgating the views of Thomas Muntzer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Little Masters [accept Kleinmeister]):
    Name this 16th-century group of engravers whose other leading lights included Heinrich Aldegrever and Albrecht Altdorfer. They got their name for their focus on producing detailed, postage stamp-sized prints.
  Part 2 (ans: Beham [accept (Hans) Sebald Beham or Barthel Beham]):
    The other two "godless painters" were two brothers, Barthel and Sebald, with this surname. Their works include Christ and the Sheep Shed and Death and the Standing Nude.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Pencz served in the atelier of this man, a major influence on the Little Masters. His own engravings include Knight, Death, and the Devil and Melencolia I.

[B15] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the quest for "divine proportion" in Renaissance art, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vitruvius [or the Vitruvian Man]):
    This Roman theorized that a man lying supine with outstretched limbs could form a square and circle centered on his navel. That theory was illustrated by da Vinci's drawing of a man named for this thinker.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca [accept either name]):
    Double-entry bookkeeping pioneer Luca Pacioli also penned a treatise on geometrical proportions in the human form, but Vasari alleges that he stole those ideas from this artist of the History of the True Cross fresco series.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    This later artist of The Triumphal Arch filled his Four Books on Human Proportion with ridiculously mechanical and awkward drawings of human figures.

[B16] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This museum grew out of a collection established by Duke Wilhelm IV, who commissioned Albrecht Altdorfer's massive The Battle of Alexander at Issus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alte Pinakothek [or Old Pinakothek; or Old Gallery]):
    Name this Munich art museum that is known for its collection of works by European Old Masters.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    The Alte Pinakothek is home to many works of this artist, including his The Four Apostles and a Christ-like self-portrait in which he looks directly at the viewer while raising his hand to touch his brown fur coat. A lion and a dog appear in the foreground of his Saint Jerome in His Study.
  Part 3 (ans: Knight, Death, and the Devil [or Ritter, Tod und Teufel]):
    In this Durer engraving, an armored man on horseback encounters a ghastly figure holding an hourglass. A goat-headed figure holding a spear stands at his rear.

[B17] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these people depicted the Labors of Hercules in a print that was only 6 square inches. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Little Masters [or Kleinmeisters]):
    Name this group of German printmakers which included Hens Beham, George Pencz, and Heinrich Aldegrever. One of their members, Albrecht Altdorfer, is better known for his paintings, such as Battle of Alexander at Issus.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    The Little Masters mimicked the style of this German Renaissance artist of Saint Jerome in his Study and Knight, Death, and the Devil.
  Part 3 (ans: An hourglass):
    It's not a scythe, but Durer depicted Death holding one of these objects up to the Knight in Knight, Death, and the Devil. One hangs from a wall next to a magic square in Melencolia I.

[B18] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer these questions about engraving.
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Melancholia I and Knight, Death, and the Devil are both engravings by which artist of the German Renaissance?
  Part 2 (ans: Burin):
    Derived from the French for 'cold chisel', what tool is used to engrave the metal plate in engraving?
  Part 3 (ans: Hendrik Goltzius):
    The deformed right hand of which Dutch painter and engraver of the early Baroque period enabled him to handle the burin with special dexterity?

[B19] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's painting of the Head of Christ in the Met is based on a now-lost Van Eyck painting, but adds gory new details such as blood dripping down from the Crown of Thorns to Christ's chest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Petrus Christus):
    Identify this Netherlandish artist who brought geometric perspective and the vanishing point to Northern Europe with his Virgin Enthroned with Saints Jerome and Francis. This artist of Portrait of a Carthusian was Bruges' leading painter, along with Memling, in the generation after van Eyck.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard David):
    The medieval craze for the Veil of Veronica, or Holy Face, led many other artists to paint small devotional portraits of Christ, such as this Flemish artist whose Judgment of Cambyses was one of the first Northern Renaissance paintings to include Italian-style putti.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    This later artist's Munich Self-Portrait is a riff on the Holy Face motif. This German artist of Praying Hands and The Four Apostles holds a thistle in an early self-portrait.

[B20] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's insignia was a winged black snake holding a ruby ring in its mouth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    Name this Wittenberg-based painter, who depicted the title figures standing in front of a stag and covering their genitals with apple branches in his version of Adam and Eve.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Cranach was a contemporary of this other German artist, with whom he now shares a feast day. This man included a magic square in his Melancolia I.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Jerome in His Study [or Der heilige Hieronymus im Gehaus]):
    A skull lies on the window-sill at the left of this Durer engraving, which features a sleeping lion and dog in the foreground and the title figure seated in the background.

[B21] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting, this person appears under a triumphal arch with hanging green silk brocade, attended to by Seigneur de St. Antoine. For 10 point s each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles I [prompt on Charles]):
    Name this king, who emerges from a thicket, wearing full black armor and riding a pony in an equestrian portrait by Anthony van Dyck.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    The Equestrian Portrait of Charles I was inspired in part by this German woodcut master's engraving Knight, Death, and the Devil.
  Part 3 (ans: triple portrait [or portrait from three different positions; accept anything suggesting that there are three of the subjects being portrayed]):
    Bernini modeled a bust on van Dyck's 1636 portrait of Charles I, which had this unique attribute. Norman Rockwell also produced a self-portrait with this attribute, which spawned a parody in which Walt Disney looks at a mirror while drawing Mickey Mouse.

[B22] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Some loser on Pawn Stars sold a reproduction of this masterpiece for way less than he should have, and the first title figure of this work was probably inspired by Erasmus's Handbook of a Christian Knight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Knight, Death, and the Devil or [Ritter, Tod und Teufel]):
    Name this engraving which depicts a figure holding an hourglass with serpents around his crown, as well as a man in armor riding a horse with a lance over his shoulder.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Knight, Death, and the Devil is a work of this artist who created St. Jerome in His Study and Melancholia I.
  Part 3 (ans: The Four Apostles [or Die vier Apostel]):
    Durer's painted works includes this diptych, which depicts a group of Biblical figures that represent the medieval temperaments.

[B23] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A demon floating underneath a rainbow holds a banner with the title of the painting written on it in the background, and a bell, hourglass, and a scale are hanging from a building in the right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Melancholia I):
    Identify this woodcut which shows an angel resting his head on his hand, sitting next to a polyhedron and a building with a magic square inscribed on it.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Melancholia I is a work by this German Renaissance artist, who is also famous for a series of self-portraits and for a biologically incorrect depiction of a rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Schongauer):
    Both Durer and this other German printmaker created a depiction of the Ecce Homo scene. His depiction of St Anthony in mid-air surrounded by demons was believed to have inspired Michelangelo's work on the same subject.

[B24] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work's central panel shows the main subject with crossed arms in a blue dress and a white headdress looking up towards the heavens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seven Sorrows Polyptych):
    Name this work of art, originally made at the behest of Frederick III of Saxony. Its other portions show such scenes as the Flight to Egypt, Christ Among the Doctors, and the Via Crucis.
  Part 2 (ans: Knight, Death, and the Devil):
    This work, by the same artist as the Seven Sorrows Polyptych, shows a skull and a plaque reading "1513" at the bottom right while a dog runs beneath an armored soldier riding a horse.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    This early Renaissance artist executed the Seven Sorrows Polyptych and Knight, Death, and the Devil. He also is known for Melancolia I and his depiction of St. Jerome in his Study.

[B25] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting, this figure stands above the seven-headed "beast from the sea." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Great Red Dragon):
    Name this figure from the Book of Revelation, who appears in two watercolors along with "the woman clothed with the sun."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This artist painted those watercolors of the Great Red Dragon, as well as The Ancient of Days. He also illustrated his poetry collection Songs of Innocence and Experience.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    The Book of Revelation inspired this artist's engraving The Seven-Headed Beast and the Beast With Lamb's Horns. During the Northern Renaissance, he created many detailed studies of nature such as Young Hare and The Great Piece of Turf.
