=== STOCK CLUES: A Severed Head ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Originally created to adorn an exedra, this work humorously depicts the rump of a foreshortened brown horse on its right, in front of a frightened man in a chariot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Mosaic [or Battle of Issus Mosaic]):
    Name this work. Possibly a copy of a lost painting by Philoxenus of Eretria, this artwork created with the opus vermiculatum technique depicts its namesake on horseback within its largely-lost left side.
  Part 2 (ans: Pompeii):
    The Alexander Mosaic was originally found in this city, where pornographic wall paintings were found in the House of the Centenary. This city's House of the Faun was preserved by ash from the nearby Mount Vesuvius.
  Part 3 (ans: the head of Medusa [prompt on a severed head by asking "to whom did that head belong?"; prompt on Medusa; prompt on a person, body, corpse, or other answers indicating someone who is dead] (The last work described is Cellini's Perseus with the Head of Medusa.)):
    In the Alexander Mosaic, Alexander's breastplate features this object. Two circular paintings by Caravaggio depict this object, which is held aloft in a 1554 bronze sculpture commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici for the Loggia dei Lanzi.

[B2] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A John Quidor painting depicts a man fleeing through this town, where a grey-headed Black musician "had been the itinerant orchestra of the neighborhood for more than half a century." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sleepy Hollow [accept "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"]):
    Name this farming town near the Tappan Zee and a swampy haunted brook. At a Dutch family's mansion in this town, a music teacher dances with his pupil, but she marries a jerk who rides the steed Daredevil after he disappears.
  Part 2 (ans: headless [or decapitated or a severed head or equivalents; accept the headless horseman; prompt on dead]):
    "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" drew on European legends of Dullahan and the Wild Hunt to depict a Hessian ("HESH-in") with this trait. Being hit by a cannonball during a "nameless battle" gave this trait to the story's ghostly horseman.
  Part 3 (ans: Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Persons]):
    Vincent buys a painting of a headless girl carrying a headless hawk's cage in a story from this author's horror collection A Tree of Night. This author wrote about making fruitcakes in his nostalgic story "A Christmas Memory."

[B3] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel fictionalizes Carlos Slim as the telecommunications mogul Max Monroy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Destiny and Desire):
    Name this novel about Josue and Jerico, who meet while at boarding school when Jerico beats up boys bullying Josue. Jerico ends up becoming the right-hand man to the corrupt president Valentin Pedro Carrera.
  Part 2 (ans: nose):
    The boys bullying Josue in Fuentes' Destiny and Desire were making fun of the largeness of this bodily feature of his. Saleem Sinai also suffers from having an unusually large one of these features in Midnight's Children.
  Part 3 (ans: a severed head):
    Destiny and Desire is narrated by one of these objects. Martin Lynch-Gibbon appears in an Iris Mudroch novel titled for one of these objects. Nearly every possible heterosexual pairing of the characters occurs over the course of that novel.
