=== STOCK CLUES: Iris Murdoch ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 40 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Iris Murdoch [or Dame Jean Iris Murdoch]
  - This author took inspiration from tapestries in Paris' Cluny Museum for a novel in which Hannah accepts her imprisonment inside Gaze Castle after pushing her lover off a cliff. [PWR]
  - A character in a novel by this author blames the young Titus' drowning on the husband of a childhood crush he attempts to kidnap away from him. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, a man who volunteered to test possible cures for the cold worries that he's violating the privacy of his roommate by adapting their conversations into a book inspired by (*) Wittgenstein. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a novel in which a former dramatist obsesses over Mary Hartley Fitch while exiling himself in a cottage in the fictional coastal village of Shruff End.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Under the Net, who created Charles Arrowby in The Sea, The Sea. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: (Jean) Iris Murdoch
  - The narrator of a novel by this author makes phallic references to the Post Office Tower near his apartment. [PWR]
  - In that novel by this author, which ends with "Post-Scripts" by "Dramatis Personae," Bradley Pearson is convicted for the murder of Arnold Baffin. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another novel by this author goes on a bar crawl after finding a note stating "gone to the pub," and later searches for his ex-girlfriend Anna Quentin in Paris on Bastille Day. [PWR]
  - In that novel by this author, a dog named (*) Mr. [PWR]
  - Mars is kidnapped by a man who adapted his conversations with Hugo Bellfounder into the book The Silencer.
  - This creator of Jake Donaghue wrote a novel in which the playwright Charles Arrowby encounters his lost lover Mary Hartley Fitch.
  - For 10 points, name this Irish-born British author of The Black Prince, Under the Net, and The Sea, The Sea. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Iris Murdoch [or Dame Jean Iris Murdoch]
  - In a late novel by this author, Jack Shearwater engages in a menage a trois with his wife Franca and mistress Alison, while, Alfred Ludens seeks out his former teacher Marcus Vallar to heal his friend Patrick Fenman.
  - This author of The Message to the Planet wrote a novel in which Toby Gashe discovers the title object at the bottom of a lake, while the prospective nun Catherine Fawley is driven mad by her love for the schoolmaster Michael Meade, the owner of Imber Court.
  - The protagonist of her first novel plots to kidnap the movie star dog Mr.
  - Mars and adapts his conversations with Hugo Belfounder into the book The Silencer.
  - Charles Arrowby retires to a cottage where he encounters his former love Mary Hartley Fitch in another novel by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this Irish-English author of The Bell, Under the Net, and The Sea, The Sea. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: (Jean) Iris Murdoch
  - In one novel by this author, the protagonist watches a woman slice paper with a samurai sword, and then later has to decide which of three letters to send to apologize for drunkenly beating up that Jewish anthropologist in his cellar, after spilling wine on the carpet of his wife's lover. [PWR]
  - One of this author's protagonists abruptly breaks off contact with a friend out of guilt for transcribing their philosophical conversations into a novel without asking the friend's permission.
  - The psychoanalyst (*) Palmer Anderson tries to steal Antonia, the wife of Martin Lynch-Gibbon, in a novel by this author.
  - A book titled "Elegy for" this author chronicled her struggle with Alzheimer's and was written by her husband John Bayley.
  - With the help of "Finn" O'Finney, the aging canine actor Mister Mars is kidnapped by the philosophical author Jake Donaghue in her breakout novel.
  - For 10 points, name this 20 th-century British author of A Severed Head and Under the Net. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Iris Murdoch
  - In a novel by this author, the protagonist is saved from a whirlpool by his levitating Buddhist cousin and sees a dragon in the ocean after taking LSD.
  - In one novel by this author, some characters escape the police by blowing a hole in the wall of a Roman amphitheater, which then collapses.
  - One novel by this author includes a woman who rescues a butterfly on a train but forgets her husband's hat and luggage.
  - This author created a protagonist who decides to steal a film star dog named Mister Mars after breaking into a bookseller's flat.
  - This author's novels include one set at Michael Meade's community at Imber Court, one about the retirement of theater director Charles Arrowby, and one about a man who plagiarized The Silencer from his friend Hugo, Jake Donahue.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Bell, The Sea, The Sea, and Under the Net. [GIVE]

[T6] 2014 MGMT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Iris Murdoch
  - A character in one of this author's novels is haunted by an audiotape of an argument he had with his wife three days before her death, and that character invents a therapy patient named Magnus Bowles to allow his neighbour to regularly sneak out to see his mistress.
  - This author who wrote about Blaise Gavender's affair in The Sacred and Profane Love Machine wrote a novel in which the playwright Charles Arrowby attempts to kidnap his first love, Mary Fitch, to try to convince her to elope with him.
  - In another novel by this author, the protagonist searches for his old friend Hugo Belfounder after finding a copy of his own novel, The Silencer, in an apartment he is staying in after being kicked out of Madge's place.
  - For 10 points, name this Irish novelist of The Sea, the Sea and Under the Net. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Dame Iris Murdoch
  - In one of this author's novels, George McCaffrey sees a flying saucer after attempting to drown his former professor John Robert Rozanov.
  - Another of this author's novels follows Bradley Pearson, who incriminates himself in Rachel Baffin's murder of her husband Arnold.
  - This author of The Philosopher's Pupil also wrote a novel whose title object is thrown into a lake near Imber Abbey after a nun refuses to disclose an affair.
  - She had a lifelong affair with Philippa Foot, despite being married to John Bayley, and won the Booker Prize for a novel in which Charles Arrowby becomes obsessed with his first love, Mary Fitch.
  - Before writing The Black Prince and The Bell, she began her literary career with a novel about the aspiring author Jake Donaghue.
  - For 10 points, name this 20th century British author of The Sea, The Sea and Under the Net. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist writes a book titled The Silencer and a translation of the novel Le Rossignol de Bois ("luh ro-sih-nyol de bwah"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Under the Net):
    Name this novel in which the writer Jake Donaghue attempts to break into Sammy Starfield's flat to obtain a stolen manuscript, re-encountering his ex Anna and former philosopher friend Hugo.
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Under the Net was the first novel by this English author who also wrote The Sea, the Sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Murphy (by Samuel Beckett)):
    In Under the Net, Jake Donoghue takes this novel with him when being evicted from Madge's flat. This novel's protagonist is mentored by Neary, a practitioner of self-induced cardiac arrests.

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: When police raid a socialist gathering in a film studio, the protagonist escapes by carrying out this character, who pretends to be dead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mister Mars [or Marvelous Mister Mars; or Mr. Mars]):
    Name this fictional actor who the protagonist of a 1954 novel kidnaps from Sammy Starfield's apartment in order to ransom him for the manuscript of his translation of a Jean-Pierre Breteuil novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch [or Dame Jean Iris Murdoch] (The unnamed novel is The Sea, the Sea.)):
    The dog Mister Mars is kidnapped in Under the Net, a novel by this author. In a Booker-winning novel by this author, the secluded Charles Arrowby unexpectedly meets his first love Mary Hartley Finch.
  Part 3 (ans: Prix Goncourt [or Goncourt Prize]):
    In Under the Net, Jake Donaghue becomes upset about Jean-Pierre becoming a good writer after he wins this prestigious French literary award named for two literary brothers who collaborated on a journal.

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Journal entries about caring for a woman with this disease form the "Now" chapter of a memoir titled Elegy for the author's wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alzheimer's disease [prompt on dementia]):
    Name this disease. That woman's last year with this disease was chronicled by her husband in a book titled for her and the Friends. After her death from this disease, her husband wrote Widower's House.
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch [or Jean Iris Murdoch]):
    Those books were written by John Bayley about this British novelist and moral philosopher. Her novels include The Sea, The Sea and The Bell.
  Part 3 (ans: Alice Munro [or Alice Ann Laidlaw]):
    Grant cares for Fiona as she lives with Alzheimer's in "The Bear Came Over the Mountain," a story by this prolific Canadian short story writer, who wrote the collection The Moons of Jupiter and won a Nobel in 2013.

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The definition of masculinity in postwar British literature was represented by men with this job such as Tom Beeson, the love interest in Martyn Goff's novel The Plaster Fabric. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: soldier [accept guard] (The unnamed character is Septimus Smith from Mrs. Dalloway.)):
    Name this profession of a character whose friendship with Evans has been read as a sign of repressed homosexuality. That man with this former job takes a walk in the park with his wife Lucrezia.
  Part 2 (ans: Lady Chatterley's Lover):
    The Plaster Fabric is characterized by a repressed nature of sexual writing that was typical in Britain until a 1960 obscenity trial failed to uphold the censorship of this D. H. Lawrence novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Iris Murdoch (The second novel is The Sea, The Sea.)):
    Another repressed 1950s British homosexual is Toby Gashe, who confesses to kissing Michael in this author's novel The Bell. In a novel by this author, Charles Arrowby obsesses over Mary Hartley Fitch while living at a coastal cottage.

[B5] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author told her biographer Peter Conradi that she was "sailing into the darkness" as she wrote a novel in which Marian Berran disappears on the eve of her wedding with Edward Lannion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iris Murdoch [or Dame Jean Iris Murdoch] (the memoir is titled Elegy for Iris, the film is titled Iris)):
    Name this author whose last novel, Jackson's Dilemma, was poorly received. This author's husband John Bayley wrote about caring for her after her Alzheimer's diagnosis in a memoir adapted into a 2001 film.
  Part 2 (ans: The Sea, The Sea):
    Neuroscientists examined Murdoch's language decline in a paper comparing the vocabulary of Jackson's Dilemma to that of this earlier Booker-winning novel by her, in which the playwright Charles Arrowby secludes himself to write his memoirs.
  Part 3 (ans: butler [or manservant; or valet]):
    Reviewers of Jackson's Dilemma compared its manipulative title character, who has this profession, to the highly competent and intelligent Jeeves, who serves in this role in a series of novels by P.G. Wodehouse.

[B6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about Charles Arrowby, an obsessive playwright who decides to live in seclusion but encounters his first love, in The Sea, the Sea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iris Murdoch (MUR-dock) [Jean Iris Murdoch]):
    Name this author, who also wrote The Black Prince, The Bell, and Under the Net. As a philosopher, she wrote The Sovereignty of Good, which revived Platonism in analytic moral philosophy.
  Part 2 (ans: John Banville):
    This other author wrote The Sea, a novel that won the 2005 Man Booker Prize. It narrates the life of art historian Max Morden as he comes to terms with the death of loved ones.
  Part 3 (ans: Republic of Ireland [or Poblacht na hEireann; do not accept or prompt on "Northern Ireland"]):
    Iris Murdoch and John Banville are both from this country, the birthplace of James Joyce.

[B7] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Hermes narrates most of a novel by this author, which concerns the assembly of the Godley family as they await their patriarch Adam's death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William John Banville):
    Name this Irish author of The Infinities. In this author's novel The Sea, Max Morden witnesses the drowning deaths of Chloe and Myles Grace.
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Xenophon apparently inspired the title of this author's The Sea, The Sea, which focuses on the egomaniacal Charles Arrowby. She also wrote about Jake Donaghue in the novel Under the Net.
  Part 3 (ans: John Griffith "Jack" London):
    This author's The Sea-Wolf depicts the struggles of Humphrey van Weyden after he is rescued from a shipwreck by the tyrannical Wolf Larsen. This author also really liked dogs, as evidenced by his novels The Call of the Wild and White Fang.

[B8] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist asserts that a failed kidnapping attempt was the result of him being "in love with his own youth". for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sea, The Sea):
    Name this novel, where Arrowby becomes obsessed with a former flame, Mary Hartley Fitch.
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    The Sea, the Sea is a Booker Prize winning novel by this British author, who also wrote An Unofficial Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: Jackson's Dilemma):
    This last novel by Murdoch was examined by researchers at UCL who deemed the novel's comparatively reduced vocabulary a result of the author's onset of Alzheimer's disease.

[B9] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author introduced his recurring character Zack Busner in his short story collection The Quantity Theory of Insanity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Will Self):
    Name this contemporary British novelist of The Book of Dave and How the Dead Live. The painter Simon Dykes wakes up one morning to find the world overrun by chimpanzees in his novel Great Apes.
  Part 2 (ans: psychoanalyst [or psychiatrist; or psychotherapist]):
    In Self's fiction, Zack Busner has this profession. In a Philip Roth novel, Portnoy narrates his history to a man with this profession named Spielvogel.
  Part 3 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    The psychoanalyst Palmer Anderson appears in this author's novel A Severed Head. Her first novel follows the aspiring writer Jake Donaghue, who loses his manuscript translation of a bad novel by Jean-Pierre Breteuil.

[B10] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about women who have won the Man Booker Prize, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    This only woman to have won this award twice, for Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies. She stirred up controversy with a London Review of Books article about Kate Middleton
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Another Booker winner was this prolific Irish-born author, who won in 1978 with The Sea, the Sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Eleanor Catton for The Luminaries ):
    Give the author and work that received the 2013 prize.

[B11] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The text of this novel ends with a number of postscripts by the characters, who supposedly read the main text and then offered their own versions of the story. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Black Prince):
    Name this novel in which Bradley Pearson is convicted for the murder of Arnold Baffin after falling in love with Baffin's daughter Julian.
  Part 2 (ans: The Sea, The Sea):
    This other novel is narrated by the arrogant, retired playwright Charles Arrowby, as he recalls his past loves and encounters some possibly supernatural monsters in the title location near his house.
  Part 3 (ans: Dame [Jean] Iris Murdoch):
    The Black Prince and The Sea, The Sea are by this novelist and philosopher, who wrote Under the Net.

[B12] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points, each answer the following about psychiatrists in literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Ian McEwan):
    Jed Parry, a stalker, ends up in a psychiatric hospital at the end of this author's Enduring Love. This novelist may be better known for Amsterdam and Atonement.
  Part 2 (ans: Equus):
    Psychiatrist Martin Dysart dreams about presiding over human sacrifices as an ancient Greek priest in this play. In this Peter Shaffer play, Dysart is in charge of treating Alan Strang after Alan blinds six animals.
  Part 3 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Martin Lynch-Gibbon discovers that his wife Antonia wants to leave him for her psychoanalyst Palmer Anderson in A Severed Head, a novel by this author of The Sea, the Sea and Under the Net.

[B13] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The revival of her works by Virago Press led to interest in her lesbian partnership with Valentine Ackland. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Sylvia Townsend Warner):
    Name this English author who advised readers to take the scenic route in "Go the long way, the long way home." She wrote about a spinster's escape into witchcraft in her popular novel Lolly Willowes.
  Part 2 (ans: Angela Carter):
    The founder of Virago Press, Carmen Callil, frequently supports the work of this English author. She wrote the novel The Magic Toyshop and a story based on Red Riding Hood entitled "The Company of Wolves."
  Part 3 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Another lady often featured in Virago is this Irish-born author of Under the Net, who wrote about Dora Greenfield and the religious community of Imber in her novel The Bell.
