=== STOCK CLUES: Under the Net ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist writes a book titled The Silencer and a translation of the novel Le Rossignol de Bois ("luh ro-sih-nyol de bwah"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Under the Net):
    Name this novel in which the writer Jake Donaghue attempts to break into Sammy Starfield's flat to obtain a stolen manuscript, re-encountering his ex Anna and former philosopher friend Hugo.
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Under the Net was the first novel by this English author who also wrote The Sea, the Sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Murphy (by Samuel Beckett)):
    In Under the Net, Jake Donoghue takes this novel with him when being evicted from Madge's flat. This novel's protagonist is mentored by Neary, a practitioner of self-induced cardiac arrests.

[B2] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Sammy Starfield plots with the film star Sadie Quentin to steal a manuscript by the protagonist of this novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Under the Net ):
    Name this novel in which the protagonist kidnaps Sammy's dog while trying to retrieve his translation of Le Rossignol de Bois. The protagonist of this novel uses his conversations with Hugo Bellfounder as the basis of his book The Silencer.
  Part 2 (ans: Raymond Queneau ):
    Iris Murdoch's novel Under the Net is dedicated to this French author of Pierrot Mon Ami. The neologism "Doukipudonktan" begins this author's novel Zazie in the Metro.
  Part 3 (ans: pubs [or bars or taverns or saloons or other equivalents; prompt on restaurants or similar answers that do not expressly imply that it is an establishment that primarily serves alcohol]):
    In Under the Net, Jake Donaghue's search for Hugo leads him to visit many of these establishments, such as the "Skinner's Arms." One of these places is the setting of Eugene O'Neill's play The Iceman Cometh.
