Brazil	Latin America and the Caribbean	South American giant, former Portuguese colony independent since 1822 under Pedro I; region's largest economy.
Tang Dynasty	East Asia	Chinese dynasty (618-907) marking a cosmopolitan golden age, capital Chang'an, flourishing Silk Road trade.
Japan	East Asia	East Asian island nation from feudal shogunates through Meiji modernization to WWII and postwar recovery.
Han Dynasty	East Asia	Chinese dynasty following the Qin; established Confucianism as state ideology and opened the Silk Road.
Argentina	Latin America and the Caribbean	Southern Cone republic independent from Spain; marked by Peronism and the 1970s-80s Dirty War.
Sri Lanka	South Asia	Island nation off India, formerly Ceylon; site of a long Sinhalese-Tamil civil war.
Ethiopia	Africa	East African kingdom under the Solomonic dynasty; resisted colonization except brief Italian occupation under Haile Selassie's era.
Portugal	Colonialism, Decolonization, and Global Conflict	Iberian seafaring power whose empire spanned Brazil, African colonies, and Goa and Macau in Asia.
Egypt	Middle East and Central Asia	North African/Middle Eastern nation of ancient civilization, Muhammad Ali's modernization, and Nasser-era Arab nationalism.
Ming Dynasty	East Asia	Chinese dynasty (1368-1644) known for Zheng He's naval voyages and construction of the Forbidden City.
Ottoman Empire	Middle East and Central Asia	Turkish Islamic empire ruled by sultans from Constantinople, controlling the Balkans, Middle East, and North Africa.
Jawaharlal Nehru	South Asia	First prime minister of independent India, Congress Party leader, and founder of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Song dynasty	East Asia	Chinese dynasty noted for economic and technological flourishing, gunpowder and movable type, lost north China to the Jin.
Taiwan	East Asia	Island state that became the Republic of China after 1949 under Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomintang.
Indonesia	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian archipelago nation, former Dutch colony, led to independence by Sukarno.
Khmer empire	Southeast Asia	Cambodian empire that built Angkor Wat and dominated mainland Southeast Asia for centuries.
Mexico	Latin America and the Caribbean	North American nation built on Aztec heritage, conquered by Spain, transformed by its 1910 revolution.
Nigeria	Africa	West African nation of Igbo, Yoruba, and Hausa peoples; former British colony wracked by the Biafran civil war.
Afghanistan	Middle East and Central Asia	Central/South Asian crossroads nation, site of a Soviet occupation and later Taliban rule.
Kwame Nkrumah	Africa	Ghanaian independence leader and first president; leading advocate of Pan-Africanism.
Madagascar	Africa	Island nation off East Africa home to the Malagasy people; former French colony.
New Zealand	Oceania and the Pacific	Pacific nation home to the indigenous Maori; British colony bound by the Treaty of Waitangi.
Peru	Latin America and the Caribbean	Andean nation at the heart of the Incan Empire, conquered by Francisco Pizarro.
Simon Bolivar	Latin America and the Caribbean	Venezuelan revolutionary "the Liberator" who led independence movements across northern South America.
gold	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Precious metal and key trade commodity across Africa and the Americas that drove exploration and conquest.
Jamaica	Latin America and the Caribbean	Caribbean island nation, former British colony built on a sugar plantation economy.
Baghdad	Middle East and Central Asia	Abbasid capital and center of Islamic Golden Age learning, home to the House of Wisdom before its 1258 Mongol sack.
Mughal empire	South Asia	Islamic empire ruling much of India, founded by Babur; peaked under emperors Akbar and Aurangzeb.
Abbasid Caliphate	Middle East and Central Asia	Islamic caliphate succeeding the Umayyads, capital Baghdad, height of the Islamic Golden Age.
Chile	Latin America and the Caribbean	South American nation whose elected Allende government was overthrown by the Pinochet dictatorship.
Democratic Republic of the Congo	Africa	Central African nation, former Belgian colony ruled long-term by dictator Mobutu Sese Seko.
Haiti	Latin America and the Caribbean	Caribbean nation and first Black republic, born of the Haitian Revolution led by Toussaint Louverture.
Malaysia	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian nation, former British colony with a multiethnic Malay, Chinese, and Indian population.
Oda Nobunaga	East Asia	Japanese daimyo who began the unification of Japan during the chaotic Sengoku period.
Songhai empire	Africa	West African empire succeeding Mali under rulers Sunni Ali and Askia Muhammad, centered on Timbuktu.
Great Zimbabwe	Africa	Southern African stone-walled city and kingdom built by Shona-speaking peoples.
Kenya	Africa	East African nation where the Mau Mau Uprising challenged British rule; led to independence by Jomo Kenyatta.
Mongols	Middle East and Central Asia	Central Asian nomadic empire under Genghis Khan that conquered much of Eurasia.
Paraguay	Latin America and the Caribbean	South American nation devastated by the War of the Triple Alliance; later ruled by Stroessner.
Qing Dynasty	East Asia	Last Chinese imperial dynasty, ruled by Manchus, fell in 1912.
Singapore	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian city-state, former British colony transformed economically under Lee Kuan Yew.
Suharto	Southeast Asia	Indonesian authoritarian president whose New Order regime followed the 1965 anti-communist coup.
Zanzibar	Africa	East African island sultanate, hub of the spice and slave trade, later united with Tanganyika as Tanzania.
Colombia	Latin America and the Caribbean	South American nation, Gran Colombia successor, marked by the FARC conflict and the Escobar drug era.
France	Colonialism, Decolonization, and Global Conflict	European colonial power that ruled Indochina, much of West Africa, and Haiti.
Incan Empire	Latin America and the Caribbean	Andean empire centered at Cusco, built Machu Picchu, conquered by Francisco Pizarro.
Maori	Oceania and the Pacific	Indigenous Polynesian people of New Zealand.
Republic of South Africa	Africa	Southern African nation whose apartheid regime ended with Nelson Mandela's presidency.
salt	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Trade commodity that drove trans-Saharan caravan trade and was heavily taxed across many empires.
Buddhism	South Asia	Religion originating in ancient India that spread across Asia via monastic missions and trade routes.
China	East Asia	East Asian civilization with the world's longest continuous dynastic and state tradition.
Delhi	South Asia	Indian capital city, seat of the Delhi Sultanate and later the Mughal empire.
Iran	Middle East and Central Asia	Middle Eastern nation, former Persia, ruled by the Pahlavi dynasty before the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Mapuche	Latin America and the Caribbean	Indigenous people of southern Chile and Argentina who resisted both Inca and Spanish conquest.
Myanmar	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian nation formerly Burma, a former British colony long ruled by military juntas.
Safavid Empire	Middle East and Central Asia	Persian empire that established Shia Islam as state religion and rivaled the Ottomans.
Tenochtitlan	Latin America and the Caribbean	Aztec capital built on Lake Texcoco, site of present-day Mexico City.
Aurangzeb	South Asia	Mughal emperor who expanded the empire to its greatest extent through strict Islamic policies.
Australia	Oceania and the Pacific	Oceania nation founded as a British penal colony, home to Aboriginal peoples.
Deng Xiaoping	East Asia	Chinese leader after Mao who launched market reforms and Special Economic Zones.
Guatemala	Latin America and the Caribbean	Central American nation of Maya heritage, site of the 1954 Arbenz overthrow and a long civil war.
India	South Asia	South Asian nation, formerly the British Raj, independent since 1947 under Nehru and Gandhi.
Kingdom of Kongo	Africa	Central African kingdom that converted to Christianity before later European colonization.
Korea	East Asia	East Asian peninsula historically divided among kingdoms, later split into North and South states.
Sejong the Great	East Asia	Korean Joseon king who created the Hangul writing system.
South Korea	East Asia	East Asian nation that industrialized rapidly after the Korean War under leaders like Park Chung-hee.
War of the Triple Alliance	Latin America and the Caribbean	War pitting Paraguay against Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay; devastated Paraguay's population.
Algeria	Africa	North African nation, former French colony that won independence via the Algerian War.
Berbers	Africa	Indigenous North African ethnic group predating Arab conquest of the region.
Delhi Sultanate	South Asia	Series of Islamic dynasties ruling North India before the Mughal empire.
Kingdom of Morocco	Africa	North African monarchy that avoided full European colonization.
Kublai Khan	East Asia	Mongol ruler and grandson of Genghis Khan who founded China's Yuan dynasty.
Mali Empire	Africa	West African empire famed for Mansa Musa's wealth and lavish hajj to Mecca.
Mao Zedong	East Asia	Chinese Communist leader who founded the PRC and launched the Great Leap Forward and Cultural Revolution.
Samarkand	Middle East and Central Asia	Central Asian Silk Road city, capital of the Timurid empire.
Somalia	Africa	East African nation of clan-based society that suffered state collapse and civil war.
Thailand	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian nation, formerly Siam, the only country in the region never colonized.
Vietnam	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian nation, former French colony divided during the Cold War and reunified after the Vietnam War.
Yemen	Middle East and Central Asia	Middle Eastern nation on the Arabian peninsula, site of an ongoing civil war.
Burma	Southeast Asia	Former name of Myanmar, a British colony in mainland Southeast Asia.
