Commonwealth of Australia	Oceania and the Pacific	Formal name of Australia, federated in 1901 from former British colonies.
Cuba	Latin America and the Caribbean	Caribbean island nation, site of the Castro-led 1959 revolution and Cold War Soviet alliance.
Indira Gandhi	South Asia	Indian prime minister, Nehru's daughter, declared the Emergency and was later assassinated.
Janissaries	Middle East and Central Asia	Elite Ottoman infantry corps recruited via the devshirme levy of Christian boys.
Lebanon	Middle East and Central Asia	Levantine nation wracked by a long multi-sectarian civil war and Hezbollah's rise.
Liberia	Africa	West African nation founded by freed American slaves; later suffered brutal civil wars.
Nanjing	East Asia	Chinese city, site of a 1937 massacre by Japanese forces and former Nationalist capital.
Sun Yat-Sen	East Asia	Chinese revolutionary leader who founded the Kuomintang and helped end the Qing dynasty.
Akbar the Great	South Asia	Mughal emperor who greatly expanded the empire and promoted religious tolerance.
Angola	Africa	Southern African nation, former Portuguese colony, site of a long Cold War-era civil war.
apartheid	Africa	South Africa's system of institutionalized racial segregation, ended in the early 1990s.
Atahualpa	Latin America and the Caribbean	Last independent Inca emperor, captured and executed by Francisco Pizarro at Cajamarca.
Aztec empire	Latin America and the Caribbean	Mesoamerican empire centered at Tenochtitlan, conquered by Hernan Cortes.
Bengal	South Asia	Indian region partitioned by the British; later split between India and Bangladesh.
El Salvador	Latin America and the Caribbean	Central American nation that endured a brutal civil war between the government and FMLN guerrillas.
Fidel Castro	Latin America and the Caribbean	Cuban revolutionary leader who ruled Cuba as a communist state for decades.
Ghana	Africa	West African nation, formerly the Gold Coast, first sub-Saharan colony to gain independence under Nkrumah.
Republic of Indonesia	Southeast Asia	Formal name of Indonesia, former Dutch colony led to independence by Sukarno.
South Africa	Africa	Southern African nation defined by Dutch and British colonization and later apartheid.
Sui Dynasty	East Asia	Short-lived Chinese dynasty that reunified China and built the Grand Canal.
Tibet	East Asia	Himalayan Buddhist region annexed by the People's Republic of China in 1950-51.
Armenians	Middle East and Central Asia	Caucasus Christian people who suffered genocide under the late Ottoman Empire.
Damascus	Middle East and Central Asia	Ancient Syrian capital, seat of the Umayyad Caliphate.
Dominican Republic	Latin America and the Caribbean	Caribbean nation sharing Hispaniola with Haiti, long ruled by dictator Rafael Trujillo.
Federative Republic of Brazil	Latin America and the Caribbean	Formal name of Brazil, former Portuguese colony and largest Latin American state.
Haitian Revolution	Latin America and the Caribbean	Slave uprising led by Toussaint Louverture that made Haiti the first Black republic.
Korean Peninsula	East Asia	Landmass divided into North and South Korea after the Korean War.
Kuomintang	East Asia	Chinese Nationalist Party founded by Sun Yat-Sen, later led by Chiang Kai-shek.
Mogadishu	Africa	Capital of Somalia, site of the 1993 "Black Hawk Down" battle.
People's Republic of China	East Asia	Communist state founded by Mao Zedong in 1949 after the Chinese Civil War.
Philippines	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian archipelago, former Spanish then American colony, led by Aguinaldo and later Marcos.
Republic of Chile	Latin America and the Caribbean	Formal name of Chile, site of the Allende government and Pinochet dictatorship.
Sukarno	Southeast Asia	Indonesia's first president, led the independence movement against Dutch rule.
The Philippines	Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian archipelago, former Spanish then American colony, later led by Ferdinand Marcos.
Timbuktu	Africa	West African city in the Mali Empire, renowned center of Islamic scholarship and trade.
Tokugawa Ieyasu	East Asia	Japanese daimyo who unified Japan and founded the Tokugawa Shogunate.
Tokugawa Shogunate	East Asia	Japanese military government (1603-1868) that enforced isolationist sakoku policy.
Uganda	Africa	East African nation infamous for Idi Amin's brutal dictatorship.
Uruguay	Latin America and the Caribbean	South American nation between Argentina and Brazil, buffer state born of regional wars.
Zheng He	East Asia	Ming dynasty admiral who led massive treasure fleet voyages across the Indian Ocean.
Cairo	Middle East and Central Asia	Egyptian capital, seat of Mamluk and later Muhammad Ali Pasha's rule.
Cecil Rhodes	Africa	British colonialist and businessman whose ambitions gave Rhodesia its name.
diamonds	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Precious gemstone whose African mining fueled colonial fortunes and later conflict economies.
Falklands War	Latin America and the Caribbean	1982 war between Argentina and Britain over the South Atlantic islands.
Guangzhou	East Asia	Southern Chinese port city (Canton), historic hub of foreign trade.
guano	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Seabird excrement fertilizer whose export fueled Peru's and the War of the Pacific's economies.
Heian period	East Asia	Era of Japanese history marked by refined court culture and works like The Tale of Genji.
Idi Amin	Africa	Ugandan dictator notorious for brutal repression during the 1970s.
Joseon	East Asia	Long-lasting Korean dynasty (1392-1897) that adopted Confucian governance and created Hangul.
Majapahit Empire	Southeast Asia	Powerful Javanese Hindu-Buddhist empire dominating much of the Indonesian archipelago.
Mamluks	Middle East and Central Asia	Slave-soldier caste that ruled Egypt and Syria, defeated the Mongols at Ain Jalut.
Morocco	Africa	North African monarchy that resisted full European colonization.
Non-Aligned Movement	Colonialism, Decolonization, and Global Conflict	Cold War-era bloc of states, led by figures like Nehru and Tito, refusing alignment with either superpower.
Operation Condor	Latin America and the Caribbean	Coordinated campaign of political repression among South American military dictatorships.
Potosi	Latin America and the Caribbean	Andean mountain and colonial city whose silver mines fueled the Spanish empire.
Quebec	Colonialism, Decolonization, and Global Conflict	French-speaking Canadian province, former New France colony, later site of separatist movements.
rice	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Staple grain and major agricultural commodity across Asian economies.
Safavid Dynasty	Middle East and Central Asia	Persian ruling dynasty that made Shia Islam the state religion of Iran.
Shanghai	East Asia	Major Chinese treaty port, center of foreign concessions and international trade.
Silk Road	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Trans-Eurasian trade network linking China to the Middle East and Europe.
slaves	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Enslaved people, the commodity at the center of the transatlantic and Indian Ocean slave trades.
Tanzania	Africa	East African nation formed by the union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
Venezuela	Latin America and the Caribbean	South American nation, Bolivar's birthplace, later marked by Chavez-era oil politics.
Yuan dynasty	East Asia	Mongol-ruled Chinese dynasty founded by Kublai Khan.
Zimbabwe	Africa	Southern African nation, former Rhodesia, long ruled by Robert Mugabe.
Alberto Fujimori	Latin America and the Caribbean	Peruvian president who defeated Shining Path insurgents amid authoritarian rule.
Ashoka the Great	South Asia	Mauryan emperor who embraced Buddhism after the bloody Kalinga war.
bananas	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Tropical export crop linked to Central American "banana republic" economies.
Bolivia	Latin America and the Caribbean	Andean nation, former Inca territory, home to the Potosi silver mines.
British East India Company	Colonialism, Decolonization, and Global Conflict	English chartered trading company that conquered and administered much of India before 1858.
Canada	Colonialism, Decolonization, and Global Conflict	North American Commonwealth nation, former French and British colony.
Coffee	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Major export crop central to Latin American and East African colonial economies.
Dahomey	Africa	West African kingdom known for its all-female Amazon warrior corps and slave trade role.
Ecuador	Latin America and the Caribbean	Andean nation named for the equator, part of Bolivar's Gran Colombia.
Empress Dowager Cixi	East Asia	Qing dynasty regent who dominated Chinese politics in the empire's final decades.
Ghana Empire	Africa	Early West African trading empire that predated and was distinct from modern Ghana.
horses	Trade, Commodities, and Material Culture	Animal reintroduced to the Americas by Spanish conquest, transforming indigenous warfare and trade.
Hulagu Khan	Middle East and Central Asia	Mongol khan who sacked Baghdad in 1258, ending the Abbasid Caliphate.
Ibn Battuta	Middle East and Central Asia	Medieval Muslim scholar whose extensive travels across Afro-Eurasia are recorded in the Rihla.
Java	Southeast Asia	Indonesian island, historic seat of the Majapahit empire and Dutch colonial power.
