=== STOCK CLUES: The Destructors ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, Maling has a condition which makes his stomach mimic sounds, leading it to cut short a company meeting when it imitates air raid sirens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene] (The story in the lead-in is "Alas, Poor Maling.")):
    Name this British author who used the Blitz as the backdrop for his novels The Ministry of Fear and The End of the Affair. This author also wrote The Power and the Glory.
  Part 2 (ans: Maurice("Morris") [accept Maurice Bendrix; accept Maurice Hall]):
    The End of the Affair follows a man with this first name who is almost killed by a V-2 rocket. A posthumously published E. M. Forster novel is titled for a man with this first name who has same-sex relationships with Clive Durham and Alec Scudder.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Destructors"):
    This short story by Greene describes how Mr. Thomas's house, which miraculously survived the Blitz, is torn apart a decade after World War II by a gang of boys.

[B2] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Graham Greene's The Ministry of Fear, Arthur Rowe is given a cake containing some secret film just before his house is destroyed in this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Blitz [or German bombing of London during World War II; or air raids on London; prompt on "bombing of England," "Battle of Britain," "World War II," or similar]):
    Identify this historical event. The Pevensie children are evacuated from the city to escape this event in C. S. Lewis's The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. Description acceptable.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Destructors"):
    In this Graham Greene short story, the only house in a neighborhood not damaged by the Blitz is demolished by the teenage "Wormsley Common gang."
  Part 3 (ans: The End of the Affair):
    In this novel by Greene, Sarah Miles promises God that she will stop committing adultery with Maurice Bendrix if Maurice revives after apparently dying during a Blitz bombing.
