=== STOCK CLUES: Arundhati Roy ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 49 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Roy [or Arundhati Roy or Anuradha Roy]
  - An author with this surname depicted the orphan Mukunda, whose property developer job takes him to the riverfront house where he grew up.
  - An author with this surname created characters who are cast in a stage version of Norman, Is That You?
  - Another author with this surname wrote An Atlas of Impossible Longing.
  - An author with this surname created the police chief Thomas Mathew, who is alarmed when a Communist worker at Paradise Pickles and Preserves is unjustly arrested.
  - Unrequited love for Father Mulligan causes Baby Kochamma to convert to Catholicism in a novel by an author with this surname.
  - The novelist Anuradha has this surname, as does an author who depicted the incestuous relationship between the twins Rahel and Estha.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author who wrote The Ministry of Utmost Happiness and The God of Small Things. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Dalits [or Dalita; accept Untouchables; accept Scheduled Castes or SCs; accept Chamar or Jatav; accept An Anthology of Dalit Literature; prompt on outcastes; prompt on Malayali, Keralite, Marathi, Indian people, sweepers, or latrine cleaners by asking "of what class?"] (Baby Kamble wrote The Prisons We Broke. The fourth sentence is from A Fine Balance by Rohinton Mistry. Anand's novel is Untouchable. Arundhati Roy wrote The God of Small Things.)
  - In 1992, autobiographical writings by these people were collected in Poisoned Bread and an anthology co-edited by Eleanor Zelliot.
  - A modernist novel is titled for one of these people who prizes a hockey stick and the "fashun" of Tommies from the British barracks.
  - Latin American testimonios inspired the writings of women from this group like Bama and the author of The Prisons We Broke.
  - An uncle and nephew from this group ride the morning express in the prologue of a novel in which they work as tailors for Dina and are later sterilized.
  - One of these people named Bakha titles a 1935 novel by Mulk Raj Anand.
  - A Communist member of this group who works at Paradise Pickles & Preserves is beaten to death after he is blamed for the murder of Sophie Mol by Baby Kochamma.
  - For 10 points, Ammu transgresses the "Love Laws" with a member of what caste named Velutha in The God of Small Things? [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 STANIEL Packet (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Roy [accept "Anuradha Roy" or "Arundhati Roy"]
  - An author with this surname wrote about the rickshaw driver and ceramicist Elango, who creates a sculpture that gets him and his lover Zohra banished, in The Earthspinner. [PWR]
  - That author with this surname wrote about Nomi Frederiksen in (**) Sleeping on Jupiter. [PWR]
  - A man nicknamed "Commander Gulrez" fathers one of two girls named Miss Jebeen in a novel by another author with this surname.
  - For 10 points, name this surname of the author who wrote about the architect (*) Tilo and the intersex woman Anjum in The Ministry of Utmost Happiness. [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Arundhati Roy [or Suzanna Arundhati Roy]
  - A novel by this author depicts a group of attackers as "saffron parakeets"; in that novel by this author, a mother realizes that "two words do not make a language" while examining her newborn fourth child.
  - A character created by this author follows Bombay Silk to Khwabgah and later constructs a guest house named after the Urdu word for Paradise in a graveyard.
  - This author, who created a hijra named Anjum, wrote a different novel in which unrequited love for Father Mulligan causes the enduring bitterness of Baby Kochamma; in that novel by this author, which is set in Ayemenem, Estha experiences a traumatic sexual assault and eventually reunites with his twin sister, Rahel.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness and The God of Small Things. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: (Suzanna) Arundhati Roy
  - In a novel by this author, a planned college performance of Norman, Is That You? is cancelled due to a political assassination.
  - In another novel by this author, the ideas "It's Best to be Prepared" and "Anything can Happen to Anyone" are called one character's Two Thoughts, with capital T's.
  - This author wrote about marching through the forest at the invitation of a group of Maoist insurgents in "Walking with the Comrades" and criticized the Iraq War in "The Algebra of Infinite Justice." She wrote a novel in which an Englishman's abandoned home is called the History House.
  - In that novel by this author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness, Sophie's drowning is blamed on a Communist Dalit who is beaten to death by the police, and the twins Estha and Rahel commit incest.
  - For 10 points, name this Indian author of The God of Small Things. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Arundhati Roy [or Suzanna Arundhati Roy]
  - This author, who once turned down an offer to model khakis for The Gap, calls herself the "twin" of Uruguayan author Eduardo Galeano. [PWR]
  - She's not Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, but this author used the epithet "Never again will a single story be told as though it's the only one" from collaborator John Berger for her breakthrough novel.
  - This author donated the prize money from a 1997 literary award to fight dam construction by funding the group Narmada Bachao Andolan. [PWR]
  - This critic attacked (*) Gandhi as a "Saint of the Status-Quo" who did not sufficiently renounce the caste system in an essay collected in The Algebra of Infinite Justice.
  - She created a hijra character named Anjum who witnesses a massacre in Gujarat in a novel published 20 years after a debut featuring the Orangedrink Lemondrink Man, who assaults Estha.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness and The God of Small Things. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: (Suzanna) Arundhati Roy (The first two sentences describe "The End of Imagination" and The Ministry of Utmost Happiness)
  - This author describes one government saying, "The desert shook," and another replying, "The whole mountain turned white" in the opening of an essay decrying their government's nuclear testing.
  - A fashion designer marries a guest of the Jannat Guest House named Saddam Hussein in a novel by this author featuring the hijra Anjum.
  - A woman in a novel by this author hates a factory worker after she is forced to wave a flag by Communist protesters.
  - A boy is molested by the Orangedrink Lemondrink Man during The Sound of Music in a novel by this author.
  - After the drowning of Sophie Mol, police beat Velutha for crossing caste lines in a novel by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this author who created the twins Rahel and Estha in their novel The God of Small Things. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Arundhati Roy <GDC>
  - In one of this author's novels, a major murders a human rights activist and later flees to the United States claiming that he was the victim of the torture he had subjected others to.
  - Musa meets his wife in a stationary shop where there is a grenade explosion in a novel by this author.
  - In another novel by this author, a woman starts an affair 'by night' with a man whom her children 'love by day'.
  - In that novel by this author a woman is sexually assaulted in a cinema by the Orangedrink Lemondrink Man and Ammu has an affair with Velutha, who is a member of the dalit caste.
  - For 10 points, the incestous twins Esta and Rachel are the main characters of The God of Small Things by which Indian author? [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: (Suzanna) Arundhati Roy
  - In an essay, this author recalled passing a friend a napkin inscribed with words articulating "the only dream worth having," which is "to love.
  - To be loved.
  - To never forget your own insignificance." This author declared that "another world is not only possible, she is on her way," in an essay adapted from a speech delivered at the 2003 World Social Forum on the subject of "Confronting Empire." This author's first major essay, a broadside against nuclear testing titled "The End of Imagination," reflects on the success of a novel in which policemen arrive at the "History House" and fatally beat up a Communist worker at a pickle factory.
  - This author correctly forecast that the invasion of Afghanistan would spread "more terror across the world" in a September 2001 Guardian piece that she made the title essay of her collection The Algebra of Infinite Justice.
  - For 10 points, name this political activist and leftist Indian author who wrote about the twins Estha and Rahel in her novel The God of Small Things. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Singaporeans like an over-the-hill pop singer and a Lake Tahoe chambermaid appear in a 2017 Amanda Lee Koe collection titled for one of these institutions "of Moral Panic." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ministry [accept Ministry of Moral Panic; accept Ministry of Utmost Happiness]):
    Name this type of institution that titles a novel whose central characters include an intersex hijra woman and an architecture student, who meet at the former's guest house.
  Part 2 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    This Indian author published The Ministry of Utmost Happiness twenty years after her debut novel, The God of Small Things.
  Part 3 (ans: The Inheritance of Loss):
    The MetalBox guest house appears in this Booker-winning 2006 novel by Kiran Desai, which contrasts the lives of the U.S. immigrant Biju and Judge Patel's granddaughter Sai.

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 2023 novel by Smriti Ravindra, Meena is accused of being a witch by the residents of a Nepalese village after performing this title action in the dead of night. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: climbing a tree [accept descriptions like living or staying in a guava tree; accept The Woman Who Climbed Trees]):
    Name this action. After being fired from his job for stripping naked and dancing in a fountain at a wedding, the protagonist of another novel befriends a gang of monkeys and becomes a holy man after performing this action.
  Part 2 (ans: The Inheritance of Loss):
    Apart from Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard, this other Kiran Desai novel contains a scene in which the orphaned Sai climbs a tree to see her math tutor Gyan approaching, foreshadowing their relationship.
  Part 3 (ans: Roy [accept Arundhati Roy; accept Sumana Roy]):
    An author with this surname discussed Tagore's habit of naming the plants in his garden in a book titled How I Became a Tree. An author with this surname wrote about the twins Estha and Rahel in The God of Small Things.

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a factory continues to manufacture banana jam illegally after the Food Products Organization bans it for being neither jam nor jelly. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arundhati Roy (The novel is The God of Small Things.)):
    Name this author who wrote about a family that owns Paradise Pickles and Preserves. In that novel by this author, Sophie drowns while going to the History House with her twin cousins.
  Part 2 (ans: India [or the Republic of India]):
    Arundhati Roy is from this country. A plane named after one of the gardens of Paradise explodes in mid-air in The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie, who was born in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: graveyards [or cemetery or cemeteries]):
    In Roy's most recent novel, The Ministry of Utmost Happiness, the hijra Anjum eventually founds the Jannat Guest House, named after the Urdu word for "Paradise," in one of these places.

[B4] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel from this country, an Elvis impersonator begins handling drugs with his friend Redemption to earn extra money. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Federal Republic of Nigeria (The unnamed novel is Half of a Yellow Sun by Chimamanda Adichie.)):
    Name this country, the setting of the novel GraceLand. In another novel from this country, a woman burns her lover Richard's manuscript after she finds out that he had an affair with her twin sister.
  Part 2 (ans: The God of Small Things (by Arundhati Roy.)):
    In this novel from another country, a boy calls his twin sister a "Refugee Stick Insect" whenever she calls him "Elvis the Pelvis." Baby Kochamma is forced to wave a Communist flag by a protestor in this novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Khalil Gibran [or Jibran Khalil Jibran]):
    In addition to books on karate and religion, the real Elvis was a big fan of novels by this Lebanese author. Elvis owned a copy of this author's novel about a man from Orphalese named Al Mustafa titled The Prophet.

[B5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Saleem Sinai uses telepathy to gather together those born at the instant that India became independent in this author's novel Midnight's Children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salman Rushdie [or Ahmed Salman Rushdie]):
    Name this Indian-born author, who had a fatwa issued against him for writing The Satanic Verses.
  Part 2 (ans: pickle factory [or preserves factory; or chutney factory; or jam factory; accept Paradise Pickles & Preserves; accept Braganza Pickles; prompt on factory by asking "What does the factory make?"]):
    In the final chapter of Midnight's Children, Saleem first meets his wife-to-be at one of these businesses, which is run by Saleem's former nanny, Mary. In a novel by a different author, the Dalit Velutha ("vay-LOO-tah") works for one of these businesses owned by Mammachi ("MAH-mah-chee").
  Part 3 (ans: The God of Small Things (by Arundhati Roy)):
    Pickle factory employee Velutha is beaten to death by police after being falsely accused of complicity in the drowning of Sophie Mol in this novel.

[B6] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel set in this city, Murugan learns about a mysterious cult that tries to guide scientific research on malaria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kolkata [or Calcutta; accept The Calcutta Chromosome]):
    Name this city that partially titles a genetics-based historical fiction thriller by Amitav Ghosh. Supratik mobilizes an agrarian uprising in another novel set in this city, The Lives of Others.
  Part 2 (ans: Mukherjee [accept Bharati Mukherjee; accept Neel Mukherjee]):
    The Lives of Others is by an author with this surname and first name Neel. Another author with this surname and first name Bharati co-authored the memoir Days and Nights in Calcutta.
  Part 3 (ans: Roy [accept Arundhati Roy; accept Anuradha Roy]):
    Anuradha, an author with this surname, depicts three generations of a family from Kolkata in An Atlas of Impossible Longing. The author of The God of Small Things has this surname and first name Arundhati.

[B7] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Amitav Ghosh argues that the modern novel has failed to grapple with this phenomenon in his book The Great Derangement. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: climate change [or global warming]):
    Name this phenomenon. Greta Thunberg's book No One is Too Small to Make a Difference collects her speeches about this phenomenon.
  Part 2 (ans: Arundhati Roy (The unnamed novel is The God of Small Things.)):
    Ghosh uses this author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness as an example of a writer whose climate activism is limited to non-fiction. The twins Rahel and Estha commit incest at the end of a novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: monarch butterflies [or In the Time of the Butterflies]):
    One of Ghosh's recommended climate novels is Barbara Kingsolver's Flight Behavior, which follows the discovery of these animals in Appalachia. These animals title a Julia Alvarez novel set during the Trujillo dictatorship.

[B8] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After escaping being shot when Vasco Miranda's heart abruptly explodes, Moraes Zogoiby flees to one of these places. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: graveyards [or cemetery or equivalents]):
    Name this type of place home to the Jannat Guest House and residents like the hijra Anjum in The Ministry of Utmost Happiness.
  Part 2 (ans: (Suzanna) Arundhati Roy):
    This author, who wrote about the Kashmiri insurgency in The Ministry of Utmost Happiness, created the twins Rahel and Estha in The God of Small Things.
  Part 3 (ans: The Moor's Last Sigh):
    Kashmiri author Salman Rushdie began this novel with Moraes Zogoiby's flashback in a graveyard. This novel follows a family descended from Vasco da Gama and is titled for a story about Boabdil's surrender of Granada.

[B9] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In Akhil Sharma's introduction to this novel, the title character's position in the Indian Administrative Service is likened to being a movie star. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English, August):
    Name this Upamanyu Chatterjee novel in which the title character spends much of his time in the parochial town of Madna smoking, masturbating, and reading Marcus Aurelius.
  Part 2 (ans: The Ministry of Utmost Happiness (by Arundhati Roy)):
    English, August opens with Agastya's friend telling him he's "going to get hazaar fucked in Madna" while they smoke in New Delhi. This 2017 novel focusing on Anjum, a Muslim hijra, is set in New Delhi and Kashmir.
  Part 3 (ans: A Confederacy of Dunces):
    A blurb from the NYRB edition of English, August draws parallels between it and this John Kennedy Toole slacker novel centering on obese New Orleans pseudo-intellectual Ignatius J. Reilly.

[B10] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about literature set in Kolkata.
  Part 1 (ans: Amitav Ghosh):
    Identify this author who wrote about Antar tracking L. Murugan in The Calcutta Chromosome. He also wrote about the trade of opium in Sea of Poppies, as well as other books in his Ibis trilogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    Estha becomes mute after being "returned" to live with his father in Kolkata in The God of Small Things, a novel by this Indian author.
  Part 3 (ans: Apu):
    Bibhutibhushan Bandhopadhyay wrote a series of novels about this boy from rural Bengal. This boy attends college in Kolkata in Aparajito, the second book about him.

[B11] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one scene in this novel, an owl looks in on a sleeping woman who is dreaming about a weevil teaching ethics. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Ministry of Utmost Happiness):
    Name this novel whose characters include the transgender woman Anjum, who is caught in a massacre of Hindu pilgrims, and the architecture student Tilottama.
  Part 2 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    This author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness wrote a novel in which Baby Kochamma blames Sophie's drowning on an Untouchable, The God of Small Things.
  Part 3 (ans: Rahel):
    In The God of Small Things, this woman partially narrates the story. She gets married and goes to America before returning and committing incest with her twin brother Estha.

[B12] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel from this country, Nyai Ontosoro, the concubine of Herman Mellema, becomes the mentor to a young writer named Minke. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Indonesia):
    Name this Asian country where Pramoedya Ananta Toer (pra-MOOD-yah Ananta TOOR) narrated stories to his prison cellmates, which became This Earth of Mankind, the first volume of the Buru Quartet. Multatuli's Max Havelaar was also set here.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher John Koch):
    The wizened reporter Cookie recounts the romance between the journalists Guy Hamilton and Jill Bryant in this Australian novelist's The Year of Living Dangerously, in which the dwarf Billy Kwan expounds on the moral sense of Indonesian wayang kulit (wah-YAHNG koo-LIT) puppet plays.
  Part 3 (ans: Arundhati Roy [Suzanna Arundhati Roy]):
    The dangerous Communist rallies in The Year of Living Dangerously resemble those that Baby Kochamma suspects her dalit servant Velutha of joining in The God of Small Things, by this Indian writer.

[B13] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Historical events that feature in this novel include the anti-Muslim riots in Gujarat in 2002 and the insurgency in Kashmir. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Ministry of Utmost Happiness):
    Name this novel which follows the activist Tilo and the hijra Anjum, the latter of whom creates the Jannat Guest House in a graveyard in Delhi.
  Part 2 (ans: The God of Small Things):
    In this other novel by the author of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness, set mostly in Kerala, Sophie Mol drowns while on a boat with the twins Estha and Rahel, who commit incest at the end of this novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    The God of Small Things and The Ministry of Utmost Happiness are the only two novels written by this Indian author, who devoted much of the 20 years between their publication to controversial political advocacy.

[B14] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel describes the childhood of two fraternal twins, Estha and Rahel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The God of Small Things):
    Name this novel set primarily in Aymanam in which the two twins form a relationship with Untouchable Velutha.
  Part 2 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    The God of Small Things is by this Booker winning author. The title essay of her collection The Algebra of Infinite Justice criticised American foreign policy under George Bush.
  Part 3 (ans: India):
    Arundhati Roy is from this country which has produced other such literary figures as the mother-daughter authors Kiran and Anita Desai.

[B15] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One story in this collection concerns a storytelling stair-sweeper who becomes ostracized from her community, while another tells of a woman who attempts to drive for the first time to the fish market but gets into a car accident. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Interpreter of Maladies):
    Name this short story collection, whose title character is a tour guide who saves a character named Bobby from wild monkeys.
  Part 2 (ans: India):
    Interpreter of Maladies is a short story collection by Jhumpa Lahiri that focuses on the immigrant experiences of people from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    This Indian author created the fraternal twins Rahel and Estha in The God of Small Things.

[B16] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Indian authors:
  Part 1 (ans: Upamanyu Chatterjee [prompt on partial answer]):
    This author wrote about a sexual deviant in Weight Loss and described the journey of Agastya Sen, a civil servant who is thrust into a rural atmosphere, in his novel English, August.
  Part 2 (ans: R.K. Narayan [or Rasipuram Krishnaswami Iyer Narayanaswami]):
    Raju fasts hoping to make it rain and encourages Rosie in her dreams of becoming a dancer in this author's novel The Guide, which, like many of his other books, is set in the town of Malgudi.
  Part 3 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    The essays in The Algebra of Infinite Justice were penned by this woman who wrote about the drowning of Sophie and created the twins Estha and Rahel in The God of Small Things.

[B17] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author criticized BJP exuberance in the immediate aftermath of the Pokharan test in an essay which presents "an apocalyptic vision of nuclearization." For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Arundhati Roy):
    Name this author whose most significant works of nonfiction include "The End of Imagination" and a 2001 essay which criticized the knee-jerk response of the Bush administration to 9/11.
  Part 2 (ans: The God of Small Things):
    Roy's only novel is this work partly set in her native Kerala, in which the mute Estha and his twin sister Rahel are molested in their youth by the Orangedrink Lemondrink Man and commit incest at the very end.
  Part 3 (ans: Midnight's Children):
    In The God of Small Things, Mammachi runs a pickle factory, as does Mary Pereira in this Rushdie novel whose major characters have superpowers because they were born between 11:00 and 12:00 the night of the partition.
