=== STOCK CLUES: egg tempera ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: tempera [or egg tempera; reject "fresco"]
  - The Birmingham Group learned this technique from a handbook translated by Edwardian artist Christiana Herringham.
  - Paul Cadmus and Jacob Lawrence contributed to a 20th-century revival of this technique, which Andrew Wyeth learned from Peter Hurd and used for Christina's World.
  - Cennino Cennini's Craftsman's Handbook provided ratios for this medium, which was used with encaustic for the Fayum mummy portraits.
  - A plaster and rabbit-skin glue mixture called gesso  was first developed as a ground for this medium, which may use casein  glue.
  - Medieval panel painting like the gold-leaf-adorned work of Duccio was painted in this medium, which was fully supplanted by oil painting during the Renaissance.
  - For 10 points, what medium mixes pigments into binders such as egg yolk? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Older examples of these paintings were created on hollowed-out wooden boards fastened together by back slats. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russian icons [or Eastern Orthodox icons or Byzantine icons; prompt on religious paintings; prompt on miniature paintings]):
    Name these paintings whose "material frame" is defined by the area of their recessed ark. Some of these paintings are protected by a decorative gold or silver cover called a riza ("ree-zah").
  Part 2 (ans: egg tempera):
    Like other panel works at the time, most medieval Russian icons were painted using this medium. Before being supplanted by oil painting, this was the most popular painting medium in Medieval Europe.
  Part 3 (ans: papier-mache [or paper mache; prompt on newspaper; prompt on cartons; prompt cardboard]):
    Instead of wooden boards, artists from Palekh painted their icon miniatures onto this material. This material is more known for its use in pinata creation.

[B2] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting, which was described by Henry James as the "saddest work of art in the world," has a 15 minute time limit for viewing due to its condition. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Supper [or Il Cenacolo or L'Ultima Cena]):
    Name this Leonardo da Vinci painting that depicts a table with the twelve apostles and Jesus, whose feet are cut off.
  Part 2 (ans: tempera [accept egg tempera]):
    A primary reason for the Last Supper's deterioration is its innovative but unstable mixture of oil paints with this other type of paint. This medium often involves the use of egg yolks.
  Part 3 (ans: Giorgio Vasari):
    Less than 60 years after its painting, this artist described The Last Supper as a "muddle of blots" that was nearly unrecognizable. This artist wrote about many Renaissance artists such as da Vinci in his pioneering work Lives of the Great Artists.

[B3] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A white figure emerges from an orange tree in a painting in this medium titled The Kitchen Garden on the Eyot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tempera [or egg tempera]):
    Name this artistic medium. A giantess enshrouded in golden wheat is circled by geese in a 20th-century painting in this medium, which was also used for late medieval paintings, such as those by Duccio.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonora Carrington):
    This artist used eggs to depict eggs in her tempera paintings The Giantess (The Guardian of the Egg) and The Kitchen Garden on the Eyot. A self-portrait by this British-born artist shows her sitting next to a lactating hyena.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War [or Guerra Civil Espanola]):
    Carrington wrote that the egg was "the dividing line between the Big and the Small" during her stay at a sanatorium during this conflict. This conflict also inspired Pablo Picasso's Guernica.

[B4] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Early Renaissance panel paintings were prepared with animal fat and gypsum-based gesso before being painted with this type of paint. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tempera paints [accept egg tempera]):
    Name this type of paint used by European painters before the invention of oil paints in the 15th century. This thin and matte-colored paint was made using eggs.
  Part 2 (ans: lime plaster):
    Tempera paints were used when painting fresco, which by definition involves painting on this material. Typically the arriccio type of this material was applied to a brick wall before the application of the finer intonaco type.
  Part 3 (ans: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni [accept either underlined portion]):
    The Creation of Adam is a fresco painting by this artist, part of his Sistine Chapel ceiling.

[B5] 2018 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Cennino Cennini's Craftsman's Handbook includes recipes for paints used in this medium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: illuminated manuscripts [prompt on partial answer]):
    Name these hand-painted books, first created in monasteries, that were decorated with gold or silver leaf.
  Part 2 (ans: egg tempera):
    Cennini's Handbook is the first extensive document to discuss this paint medium, which uses egg yolk as a binder. This medium was largely replaced by oil painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    The fact that Cennini's Handbook mentions oil painting disproves Giorgio Vasari's claim that oil painting was invented by this artist, who may have worked on an illuminated manuscript called the Turin-Milan Hours. He often signed his paintings with a Flemish motto meaning "As I can."

[B6] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about visual art techniques, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: egg tempera):
    In this paint medium, egg yolk is commonly used to bind the pigments. In order to prevent it from cracking, it must be applied in thin layers, which often creates a translucent appearance.
  Part 2 (ans: Japan [or Nippon; or Nihon]):
    This country's art forms include "pictures of the floating world," or ukiyo-e prints, created by artists such as Katsushika Hokusai.
  Part 3 (ans: intaglio [also accept aquatint since all the clues apply to that as well]):
    In this other printmaking technique, the image is inscribed into a surface and ink is poured into the resulting grooves, after which paper is pressed onto the surface from above to transfer the ink. Francisco Goya utilized this in creating his Caprichos and Disasters of War series.

[B7] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about some art terms from the Italian Renaissance, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: egg tempera):
    This medium, described in detail in a work by Cennino Cennini, involves using egg yolk to bind pigments. It was largely supplanted by oil painting around 1500.
  Part 2 (ans: linear perspective):
    All lines converge into one to three vanishing points in the linear form of this technique, which provides the illusion of depth for a two-dimensional painting.
  Part 3 (ans: tenebrism [accept word forms like tenebrist]):
    This term comes from the Italian word for "obscure". It was frequently employed by Caravaggio and is characterized by works with a mainly dark tonality.
