=== STOCK CLUES: Robert Henri ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 TOWNS (2024) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: Platte River (Cozad, Nebraska is the home of the Robert Henri Museum. The Bailey Yard is located in North Platte.)
  - While living on this river, John Cozad killed a man in a land dispute, leading him to flee, change his name, and father the artist Robert Henri . [PWR]
  - The STAR WARS committee sanctions private residential communities on artificial lakes that dominate many cities on this river, including Valley and North Bend. [PWR]
  - The west side of a city named for a tributary of this river is home to the largest railroad yard in the world, which is named for former Union Pacific president (*) Edd Bailey. [PWR]
  - While running parallel to this river, I-80 is spanned by a faux-wood archway filled with historical dioramas.
  - This river flows to the south of Columbus near its confluence with the Loup River.
  - This river was variously described as "too thick to drink, too thin to plow" and "a mile wide and an inch deep" by pioneers going west.
  - For 10 points, name this tributary of the Missouri River that flows through Kearney  and Grand Island in Nebraska. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist was given frozen crows as models for one painting, but because the work was started near spring, the crows began to thaw. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Winslow Homer (The latter painting is Snap the Whip.)):
    Name this artist whose largest painting is the aforementioned The Fox Hunt. In another painting by this artist, a line of boys play the title game in front of a red schoolhouse.
  Part 2 (ans: sharks [accept Watson and the Shark]):
    Homer's painting The Gulf Stream depicts several of these animals around a shirtless Black man. Another of these animals titles a painting by John Singleton Copley depicting an incident in Havana Harbor.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Henri):
    In praise of Homer's realist paintings, this later American said "The big strong thing can only be the result of big strong seeing." This artist of several portraits of Edna Smith promoted "art for life's sake" in The Art Spirit.

[B2] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The name of this movement originated in the caption of a drawing from the Philadelphia Record that was disparaged by the cartoonist Art Young. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ashcan School [prompt on The Eight]):
    Name this artistic movement whose works depicted ubiquitous scenes of urban life. An artist from this movement illustrated a street scene filled with people in his painting Cliff Dwellers.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Henri [or Robert Henry Cozad]):
    The origins of the Ashcan School can be traced back to this organizer of "The Eight." This man's teachings are collected in The Art Spirit, in which he encouraged interest in color and light as "means of expression."
  Part 3 (ans: George Wesley Bellows):
    Robert Henri taught this member of the Ashcan school. Dempsey and Firpo and Stag at Sharkey's are two of this artist's many paintings of boxers.

[B3] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted his second wife, the newspaper cartoonist Marjorie Organ, against a plain black background in his portrait The Masquerade Dress. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Henri [or Robert Earle Henri]):
    Name this artist who collected his teachings in his book The Art Spirit, and painted a carriage rolling down a street surrounded by brownstone apartment buildings in Snow in New York. He organized "The Eight."
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan School):
    "The Eight" later developed into this realistic American art movement, best-known for its gritty depictions of lower-class New York City.
  Part 3 (ans: John Sloan [or John French Sloan]):
    Henri organized the Exhibition of Independent Artists with the help of this fellow member of "The Eight," whose sympathetic portrayals of working-class New Yorkers include Wake of the Ferry and McSorley's Bar.

[B4] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted his second wife Marjorie Organ in The Masquerade Dress, and his portrait of Isadora Duncan in a red dress is called The Little Dancer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Henri):
    Name this American artist of Salome and La Neige who wrote The Art Spirit helped found a group of New York artists that included John Sloan, George Luks, and Everett Shinn.
  Part 2 (ans: Ashcan school):
    Along with four other members of "The Eight," Henri belonged to this artistic movement that sought to capture the nitty-gritty realistic scenes of daily street life in New York.
  Part 3 (ans: George Bellows):
    This other American realist painter was a student of Henri and did paintings of boxers such as Both Members of This Club and Dempsey and Firpo.

[B5] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter's nudes include Mata Moana and Figure in Motion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Henri [or Robert Henry Cozad]):
    Name this painter whose philosophy of art is set out in the book The Art Spirit.
  Part 2 (ans: Armory Show [or the International Exhibition of Modern Art]):
    Henri's Figure in Motion was exhibited at this 1913 show, at which Nude Descending a Staircase was also exhibited.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    Nude Descending a Staircase is by this artist who made a bunch of readymades and turned a urinal into a sculpture called Fountain.

[B6] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A Princeton professor published an article in 2011 about how Matthew Chan wears his iPad earbuds the same way this woman wore her scarf. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isadora Duncan):
    Name this dancer who died when her caught scarf launched her out of her car in Nice.
  Part 2 (ans: Gertrude Stein):
    This author of Tender Buttons and lover of Alice Toklas wryly said that Isadora Duncan's trouble with her scarf demonstrated that "affectations can be dangerous." Chan, obviously, would be wise to listen.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Henri (HEN-rye)):
    This artist depicted Isadora Duncan in The Little Dancer. He also painted Spanish Gypsy.
