=== STOCK CLUES: Vladimir Nabokov ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 68 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 29 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov; or Vladimir Sirin]
  - At a party hosted by the Selznicks, this author asked John Wayne, "what do you do for a living?" This author once reenacted the opening of The Killers over a drink with his biographer Alfred Appel Jr., whose son Richard is the showrunner of Family Guy. [PWR]
  - In an adaptation of a novel by this author, a drunk man wearing a bedsheet like a toga is shot after playing "Roman table tennis." Questions like "do they teach you how to feel, finger to finger?" precede phrases written by this author like "interlinked" and "a tall white fountain played" in the (*) replicant baseline tests in Blade Runner 2049. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a 400-page screenplay for a 1962 film version of his best-known novel, which a director who shared his passion for chess heavily edited to conform to the Hays Code.
  - The poster of that film depicts heart-shaped sunglasses under the text "how did they ever make a film of [his best-known novel]?".
  - For 10 points, Stanley Kubrick adapted what author's novel Lolita? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov; accept Vladimir Sirin; accept Nabokov's Dozen] (The first sentence refers to "The Admiralty Spire.")
  - A story by this author consists of a letter to a "lady novelist" whom the narrator accuses of fictionalizing his own first love, but with all the facts wrong. [PWR]
  - This proponent of the "divine detail" wrote a story whose narrator fails to confess his love to the wife of a mediocre expatriate writer before a car crash kills her at the title "cloudy and dull" seaside town.
  - A book of this author's "dozen" collects a story that ends with a man reading the labels of jelly jars as a phone rings, as well as (*) "Spring in Fialta." This author implied there were two plots in a story about a couple whose son is treated for "referential mania." This author switched to English for the story "Signs and Symbols" and a novel in which he anagrammed himself as Vivian Darkbloom.
  - For 10 points, what Russian emigre created Humbert Humbert? [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pushkin [or Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin] (Vladimir Nabokov's essays are collected in Strong Opinions.)
  - In a story by this author, which is narrated to Miss K.I.T., Burmin falls to his knees in front of Maria after realizing she is the woman he jokingly married four years prior during the title event.
  - While translating a work by this author, an author whose essays are collected in Strong Opinions wrote a set of "Notes on Prosody." This author of "The Blizzard" wrote a collection framed as the stories of the mysterious landowner Ivan Belkin.
  - Vladimir Nabokov feuded with Edmund Wilson over a translation of a work by this author composed of sonnets ending with masculine and feminine rhymes.
  - This author wrote a poem in which Lensky challenges the title dandy to a duel after Tatyana's name-day celebration.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of Eugene Onegin. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - In a story by this author, a female Devil offers a man a chance to select a harem of eager women for the afterlife, but only if he chooses an odd number of them. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, a biology professor scares his much younger wife to death by placing a skeleton in their bed. [PWR]
  - In a third story by this author, a man gets trapped inside a portrait by Sebastiano del Piombo. [PWR]
  - The title fearsome creature awakens from an ancient slumber only to be used as an advertising marquee for competing tobacco companies in this author's story "The Dragon." Some of this author's earliest stories, which often focused on fantasy creatures in the contemporary world, were published under the name (*) V. [PWR]
  - Sirin.
  - Among this author's most anthologized stories is one in which a boy suffers from "referential mania" as he thinks everything in the world somehow relates back to him, and another in which an acrostic and spiritualist influence explains a reference to icicles and parking meters.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the short stories "Signs and Symbols" and "The Vane Sisters." [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - One work by this critic describes Ezra Pound as a "total fake" and a "venerable fraud" as well as calling Hemingway and Conrad "writers of books for boys." In a letter, this critic declared he disliked Jane Austen and was "prejudiced, in fact, against all women writers." Many of the works of this author of Strong Opinions were edited by his wife Vera. [PWR]
  - This Cornell professor created a quiz to determine whether his students were "good" or "bad" (*) readers. [PWR]
  - This critic praised The Double despite "intensely [disliking]" other works by Dostoyevsky.
  - This critic's unrhymed, literal translation of Eugene Onegin sparked a feud with his once friend Edmund Wilson.
  - For 10 points, name this critic, who wrote Pale Fire and Lolita. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Sirin]
  - This author termed the swerving way Austen depicts Fanny Price's emotions the "knight's move" in a reading of Mansfield Park that stresses its "play theme." This author, whose favorite word is "mauve" according to Ben Blatt, suggested that instructors prepare diagrams of Leopold Bloom's Dublin in his Lectures on Literature.
  - "The cradle rocks above an abyss" in this author's memoir, which discusses the governess Mademoiselle O.
  - In his translation of a 1833 poem that includes the essay "Notes on Prosody," this author removed masculine and feminine rhymes from each of the poem's 14-line stanzas.
  - This translator of Eugene Onegin wrote a novel in which a poem about how "I was the shadow of the waxwing slain" is erroneously interpreted to be about Zembla by Charles Kinbote.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Speak, Memory; Pale Fire; and Lolita. [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - When asked what scenes he would liked to have filmed, this critic replied "Herman Melville at breakfast, feeding a sardine to his cat." This critic urged readers to absorb a book's "stereographic charm" by creating detailed maps of Mansfield Park and Dr. [PWR]
  - Jekyll's London.
  - To introduce a series on the great European novels, this critic dismissed "bad readers" who use fiction "to learn something about life in gay Paree or in sad Russia." A novel by this critic opens with the parody quotation (+) "all happy families are more or less dissimilar; all unhappy ones are more or less alike." This critic consistently rated Tolstoy as great, Turgenev as "pleasant," and Dostoevsky as "mediocre." This critic feuded with his erstwhile friend Edmund Wilson, who criticized his overly literal prose translation of (*) Eugene Onegin. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author whose 19th century literary homages include Ada and a novel about the poet John Shade. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - This author experienced an "absolutely Homeric retching" during a hospital stay which he escaped by jumping out the fire escape in a hospital gown.
  - This author included maps of Leopold Bloom's Dublin and sketches of the beetle Gregor Samsa in his collected "Lectures on Literature." He created a character who loses his luggage with his papers, which may be the wrong ones, while giving a guest lecture, and is insulted by the book's narrator V. [PWR]
  - V. [PWR]
  - This author of (*) Pnin  worked his interest in chess into his character Luzhin in The Defense.
  - This lepidopterist described his synesthesia in his autobiography Speak, Memory, and created a professor who wrote a 999-line poem beginning "I was the shadow of the waxwing slain." That poem by John Shade is annotated by the allegedly Zemblan professor Charles Kinbote.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Pale Fire. [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - A poem in one of this author's novels calls the title character "Wanted, wanted" and ends by stating "And the rest is rust and stardust." This author wrote about a man who envisions a "white fountain" while reading a poem titled for a line from Timon of Athens.
  - One of this author's protagonists hands over a death sentence resembling T.
  - S. [PWR]
  - Eliot's "Ash Wednesday" before shooting his nemesis; the childhood love of that protagonist dies of typhus and is named for Edgar Allan Poe's poem (*) "Annabel Lee." In a novel by this author, the line "I was the shadow of the waxwing slain" opens a 999-line poem by John Shade.
  - The playwright Clare Quilty pursues this author's best-known character, the 12-year-old Dolores Haze.
  - For 10 points, what author wrote about the pedophile Humbert Humbert's love for a "nymphet" in his novel Lolita? [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pushkin ("Racing Stars" is by Vladimir Nabokov.)
  - A different author's poem "Racing Stars" describes [emphasize] this author composing a poem in which the speaker's chest is ripped open by a snake, who deposits a "blazing shard of coal" before being called to "burn Man's heart" with God's word.
  - This author of "The Prophet" died "with lead in breast and vengeful fire" due to "gossip" according to a poem that opens "The Bard is dead!" That poem about this author is titled (*) "The Death of the Poet." A narrative poem by this author contrasts the "eternal sleep" of the nature-conquering Peter with a river that "hurls itself" on the city that Peter built.
  - In that poem, a man witnesses the demise of his beloved Parasha in the flood of the Neva before being chased by the title statue.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Bronze Horseman." [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - The "beings of uncertain provenance and purpose" that appear in this author's works are the subject of the essay "Dream Textures," which appears in another author's collection Campo Santo.
  - After a fictionalized version of this author meets the painter Max Ferber on a mountain in Montreux, Ferber obsesses over creating a portrait of him.
  - This author wrote some "notes on prosody" as an appendix to a work that inspired a feud with Edmund Wilson, this man's translation of Eugene Onegin.
  - This writer described his encounter with an old, fat swan to presage the death of his Swiss-French governess, Mademoiselle O, in his autobiography Speak, Memory.
  - In this man's best-known novel, the playwright Clare Quilty is murdered by the narrator, who abducts his step-daughter Dolores Haze.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian-American author who invented Humbert Humbert in his novel Lolita. [GIVE]

[T12] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - A story by this author follows a couple whose institutionalized son thinks that "everything is a cipher and of everything he is the theme" due to his "referential mania." In one of his stories, the narrator catches sight of a shadowless icicle and a red-shadowed parking meter; the last paragraph reveals that those sights were caused by the ghosts of Cynthia and Sybil. [PWR]
  - This author of "Signs and Symbols" describes seeing an old swan trying to climb into a boat at the end of a piece about his Swiss governess.
  - This author of "The (*) Vane Sisters" included "Mademoiselle O" in a memoir that also discusses his love of butterfly-collecting.
  - In a novel by this author, the protagonist shoots the playwright of The Enchanted Hunters, Clare Quilty, for kidnapping the title character.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Speak, Memory and Lolita. [GIVE]

[T13] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Vladimir Nabokov
  - The title character of one novel by this author becomes confused between football and soccer and wonders about the height of his ex-wife's son, Victor. [PWR]
  - That character, an emigre who is baffled by "unpredictable America," is a professor at Waindell College.
  - Another of his works sees an ugly daughter of Sybil drown herself after an unsuccessful date with Pete Dean. [PWR]
  - He wrote about (*) butterflies and synesthesia in an "Autobiogrpahy revisited" titled Speak, Memory.
  - This author of Pnin wrote a novel that consists of commentaries by Charles Kinbote and a 999-line poem by John Shade.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Pale Fire. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: When faculty pushed for this author to be hired at Harvard, Roman Jakobson replied, "even if one allows that he is an important writer, are we next to invite an elephant to be Professor of Zoology?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov]):
    Name this author of the book Lectures on Literature whose proctoring and office hours were handled by his wife Vera. While teaching at Wellesley, this author published his novel The Real Life of Sebastian Knight.
  Part 2 (ans: Cornell University):
    Nabokov spent most of his academic career at this university, where he taught Thomas Pynchon. Another of his students, Richard Farina, fictionalized this university in his novel Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me.
  Part 3 (ans: reading [accept close reading]):
    On a lecture tour, Nabokov quizzed students on traits held by people good at this action. Nabokov advocated for the "close" ("clohss") form of this action, which one is often advised to do "like a writer."

[B2] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's most famous novel, written whilst on a trip collecting butterflies, appears in the title of a memoir by Azar Nafisi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov, accept Vladimir Sirin]):
    Name this Russian-born author of Lolita.
  Part 2 (ans: Pnin):
    Nabokov taught literature at Wellesley College, inspiring this book, whose title character is a professor of Russian at the fictional Waindell College. The title character of this novel gives a football to the drawing savant Victor, the son of his ex-wife.
  Part 3 (ans: Bend Sinister):
    Before writing Pnin, Nabokov wrote this dystopian novel set in a land ruled by the 'Party of the Average Man'. This novel features many references to the 'left', such as the left side of the moon appearing in shade, and a guard shooting off part of a philosopher's left ear.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay distinguishes between old-fashioned artists, up-to-date non-artists, and up-to-date artists, placing Borges ("BOAR-hays") and Beckett at the forefront of the last category. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Literature of Exhaustion"):
    Name this essay that compares the great author to a "Thesean hero" who can forgo a labyrinth to cut "straight through the maze to the accomplishment of his work."
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov; or Vladimir Sirin]):
    John Barth's essay "The Literature of Exhaustion" compares recomposing Beethoven's Sixth Symphony to this author's translation of Pushkin, and praises this author's novel Pale Fire.
  Part 3 (ans: realism [or realist literature; accept hysterical realism]):
    Barth questioned the usefulness of novels within this broad literary genre. The scholar James Wood added the word "hysterical" to the name of this genre to categorize novels such as David Foster Wallace's Infinite Jest and Zadie Smith's White Teeth.

[B4] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about novels in which scholars lack basic language competency in an area of ostensible expertise, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Don DeLillo [or Donald Richard DeLillo]):
    Jack Gladney tries to hide the fact that he does not know German despite being a professor of "Hitler studies" in this author's novel White Noise.
  Part 2 (ans: Herzog (by Saul Bellow)):
    Despite giving long pronouncements on Dostoevsky and the Russian Church, the scholar Shapiro admits "my Russian is not what it could be" in this novel. Late in this novel, a scholar gets in a car crash while visiting his daughter and is arrested for possession of a firearm.
  Part 3 (ans: Pnin [or Timofey Pavlovich Pnin] (The novel is Pnin by Vladimir Nabokov.)):
    Leonard Blorenge, a colleague of this character, reads and speaks no French despite being Chair of French Literature and Language. This Waindell College professor boards the wrong train for a lecture at the start of a novel.

[B5] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the foreword to a novel, this author compared his rereading of it to chess master Adolf Anderssen recalling the "Immortal Game." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov (The novel is Pale Fire.)):
    Name this author of a novel in which the imprisonment of "The Beloved" is likened to a solus rex chess puzzle. In that novel by this author, a poet plays chess with his wife after their daughter Hazel drowns in an icy lake.
  Part 2 (ans: The Defense [or The Luzhin Defense]):
    The protagonist is mentored by the ruthless Valentinov in this Nabokov novel that culminates in a disastrous chess match against the Italian grandmaster Turati, after which the protagonist jumps out of a "frosted window."
  Part 3 (ans: Lolita):
    Nabokov's Poems and Problems includes 18 original chess puzzles alongside the poem "Lilith," which is sometimes read as a precursor to a later novel about this title "nymphet" pursued by Humbert Humbert.

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This woman is called "the Allmaziful, the Everling" in a chapter that describes a "mamafesta" she wrote to defend her husband, but which was never properly delivered. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna Livia Plurabelle [or ALP; or Anna Livia Plurabelle; accept Alma Luvia, Pollabella or Alma Luvia, Pollabella]):
    Name this mother of Shem and Shaun. She imagines herself as the River Liffey in a monologue that begins, "Soft morning, city!" and ends the novel in which she appears by wrapping back to its first word, "riverrun."
  Part 2 (ans: Finnegans Wake):
    Anna Livia Plurabelle appears as the wife of Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker in this famously difficult final novel by James Joyce.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Vane Sisters" (by Vladimir Nabokov)):
    In this story by another author, Cynthia realizes that the name of the river Alph from "Kubla Khan" is linked to Anna Livia Plurabelle's initials. This story's narrator is fascinated by "a family of brilliant icicles."

[B7] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this writer's most famous works is presented as a 999-line poem written by fictional poet John Shade. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Name this Russian writer behind works such as Pale Fire and The Gift.
  Part 2 (ans: Lolita):
    Nabokov's most famous work is this 1955 novel. This controversial novel follows the unreliable narrator Humbert Humbert as he sexually predates the 12-year-old title character.
  Part 3 (ans: postmodernism):
    Nabokov inspired many writers in this literary movement including Don DeLillo. This literary movement uses techniques like irony and metafiction in order to critique the grand narratives and hyperrealism of previous fliterary movements.

[B8] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a story finds that this technique occurs four times in Shakespeare's sonnets before remarking how everything "seemed yellowly blurred, illusive, lost." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: acrostics):
    Name this literary technique used to recall icicles and a parking meter after the deaths of Sybil and Cynthia Vane.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov; accept Vladimir Sirin] (The clued novel is Pale Fire.)):
    This author of "The Vane Sisters" is sometimes wrongly credited with inventing the Russian crossword. This author's character Charles Kinbote goes from live to dead in five while playing "word golf" with John Shade.
  Part 3 (ans: Antiterra [or Demonia; prompt on the world of Ada; prompt on the alternate universe from Ada or equivalents]):
    In this world, two siblings play a wordplay-heavy game of scrabble called by the anagrammatical name "Flavita." Endnotes by Vivian Darkbloom explain punning terms from this world's provinces of Estoty and Canady.

[B9] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator asserts that, knowing the author's "subtle sense of harmonic balance," this line "would have completed the symmetry of the structure" of the poem it belongs to. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the last line of Pale Fire [or line 1,000 of Pale Fire; prompt on the missing line of Pale Fire or unfinished line of Pale Fire; prompt on "I was the shadow of the waxwing slain" by asking "which line of the poem?"]):
    [emphasize] Describe this line of poetry that was left unwritten because its author was shot by the supposedly insane assassin Jack Grey, who was actually aiming for a former king.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov; or Vladimir Sirin]):
    The fictional Charles Kinbote argued that the unwritten thousandth line mirrored the first line about "the waxwing slain" in John Shade's poem Pale Fire, which titles a novel by this author of Lolita.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost] (The first poem is "Questioning Faces.")):
    This poet's image of an owl banking to pass the window glass inspired the "waxwing slain" by the windowpane. Michael Wood compared Shade's "richly rhymed life" to a spider in this writer's poem "Design."

[B10] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's collection Lost in the Funhouse opens with a one sentence "Frame-tale" intended to be cut out and turned into a Mobius strip. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Barth [or John Simmons Barth]):
    Name this postmodern author of Giles Goat-Boy and The Sot-Weed Factor.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov; or Vladimir Sirin]):
    Barth's postmodern manifesto "The Literature of Exhaustion" points to this author of "Signs and Symbols" and the novel Lolita as a major precursor.
  Part 3 (ans: Louise Erdrich [or Karen Louise Erdrich]):
    This author of the 2020 Pulitzer winner The Night Watchman studied creative writing under Barth. This author's debut novel expands stories like "The Red Convertible" and "The World's Greatest Fisherman."

[B11] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play jumps up and down and shouts "oooooh!" while making "paw gestures," prompting another character to ask her, "What makes you think you're happy?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Look Back in Anger (by John Osborne)):
    Name this play by the author of The Entertainer. This 1956 play focuses on the working-class Jimmy Porter and his middle-class wife Alison, who play "bears and squirrels" upon reuniting.
  Part 2 (ans: A Doll's House [or A Doll House; or Et dukkehjem]):
    Nora is belittlingly called a "little squirrel" by her husband Torvald, whom she later leaves by symbolically slamming the door in this Henrik Ibsen play.
  Part 3 (ans: Pnin ("puh-NEEN") (by Vladimir Nabokov)):
    Squirrels frequently appear as portents of misfortune for the title character of this novel. This novel's protagonist recalls the death at Buchenwald of his former lover Mira Belochkin, whose last name means "squirrel."

[B12] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Cynthia devotes herself to spiritualism after the suicide of Sybil in this author's short story "The Vane Sisters". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Name this author, who wrote about an elderly couple who decide to bring ten jars of jelly to their child suffering from "referential mania" in the short story "Signs and Symbols".
  Part 2 (ans: unreliable narrators):
    "The Vane Sisters" has one of these narrators. Exemplified by Humbert Humbert in Lolita, these narrators provide 1st-person accounts which cannot be trusted due to character flaw.
  Part 3 (ans: dwarfism [or dwarves; Nabokov's story is "The Potato Elf".]):
    In a 1929 Nabokov short story, the circus performer Fred Dobson is ridiculed for having this physical trait. In an earlier story, characters with this trait save a princess by cutting the laces of a corset.

[B13] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a passage from Jenny Offill's novel Dept. of Speculation, the narratorclaims that women rarely become "art monsters" and that, instead, this woman licked stamps and folded umbrellas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vera Nabokov [or Vera Nabokova; or Vera Slonim; prompt on Vera or Nabokov; prompt on Vladimir Nabokov's wife]):
    Name this woman who spent 17 years with her husband at the Montreux Palace Hotel in Switzerland after leaving the United States. A Pulitzer-winning biography of her by Stacy Schiff draws on research by Brian Boyd.
  Part 2 (ans: Lolita):
    Schiff's biography recounts how, on several occasions, Vera Nabokov stopped her husband from burning this novel, which is about Humbert Humbert's obsession with the title "nymphet."
  Part 3 (ans: Speak, Memory [or Speak, Memory: An Autobiography Revisited]):
    The last chapter of this memoir by Vladimir Nabokov is presented as a second-person address to Vera. This memoir includes chapters on Nabokov's mother and on his passion for butterflies.

[B14] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The foreword and commentary of this novel were written by a man who claims to be a king nicknamed "The Beloved." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pale Fire):
    Name this novel that contains stories of King Charles II of Zembla, and details the assassin Gradus' accidental murder of John Shade, the author of the title poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov]):
    This Russian-American author of Pale Fire also wrote about Humbert Humbert's disconcerting affections for the title character in Lolita.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Quixote [or "Lectures on Don Quixote; or Alonso Quijano or Alonso Quijano; or Alonso Quixano; or Don Quijote]):
    In a 1950s series at Harvard known as "Lectures on [this character]," Nabokov created a count of "Victories and Defeats" to refute Joseph Wood Krutch's claim in Five Masters that "never by any chance does [this character] win."

[B15] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A character with this surname writes that "Death was not better than D minus, but definitely better than Life minus D" in a French exam paper described as a "passport to a casual Elysium." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vane [accept Sybil Vane or Cynthia Vane; accept "The Vane Sisters"]):
    Give this surname. Unable to sleep, the narrator of that story connects the first letters of each word in several Shakespearean sonnets, a process that yields a message from two characters with this surname involving "icicles" and a parking "meter" when applied to that story's final paragraph.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    This author had to explain the acrostic hidden in "The Vane Sisters" to the editor of The New Yorker after they rejected it. Both that story and this author's novel Lolita use the unreliable narrator trope.
  Part 3 (ans: barber [or hairdresser; accept The Barber of Seville; prompt on servant] (The Nabokov story is "Razor.")):
    In another Nabokov story, a Russian officer who adopts this profession after moving to Berlin realizes that a customer is a higher-up who once tortured him. The title character with this profession tries to arrange a meeting between Rosine and the Count in a play by Pierre Beaumarchais.

[B16] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author alluded to the use of the initials H.C.E. in James Joyce's Finnegans Wake with the pseudonyms of the protagonist of his story "Time Considered as a Helix of Semi-Precious Stones." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Delany (That novel is Dhalgren.)):
    Name this author of Babel-17. In reference to Finnegans Wake's cyclical format, the last and first sentences of this author's novel, set in the ruined city of Bellona, complete the phrase "I have come to wound the autumnal city."
  Part 2 (ans: John Barth):
    Brian McHale has compared Finnegans Wake's structure with that of a story by this author that consists of the words "Once upon a time there was a story that began." This postmodern author used his home state of Maryland as the setting for the title story of Lost in the Funhouse.
  Part 3 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Charles Kinbote imagines lecturing university students about Finnegans Wake in Pale Fire, a novel by this Russian-Amerian author of Lolita.

[B17] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, Victor declines to join Nina and her husband Ferdinand for a car journey, and later learns that they have died in a crash. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Name this author, whose story 'Signs and Symbols' ends with an unnamed couple's telephone ominously ringing a third time after they have already received two misdials from a girl asking for Charlie.
  Part 2 (ans: a sanatorium [accept an asylum or a psychiatric hospital; prompt on hospital]):
    In Nabokov's story 'Signs and Symbols', the main couple tries to take a set of fruit jellies to their son in one of these locations. In a novel, a character meets Settembrini and Naphta in one of these locations, after going there to visit his cousin Joachim.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This German author wrote about Hans Castorp visiting a sanatorium in the Alps in his novel The Magic Mountain.

[B18] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Edmund Wilson slammed an English translation of this work by attributing to it "a lack of common sense" and the translator's desire to "torture both the reader and himself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eugene Onegin ("ohn-YAY-ghin") [or Yevgeniy Onegin]):
    Name this novel written in a form of iambic tetrameter that alternates masculine and feminine rhymes, known as its title character's "stanza." Its title character incites a duel when he attends Tatyana's name day celebration.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov]):
    This writer earned Wilson's ire for his extremely literal translation of Eugene Onegin, which he accompanied with an analysis of Russian and English verse called Notes on Prosody ("PRAH-zuh-dee").
  Part 3 (ans: elision):
    In Notes on Prosody, Nabokov writes that the beauty of this device in English is "the delicate sensation of something being physically preserved by the voice" and finds that it is absent in Russian. Robert Bridges explains syllabic variation between lines in Paradise Lost with this device in Milton's Prosody.

[B19] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The constant reappearance of circus posters in this short story prefigures the death of two of the central characters in an accident with a circus truck. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Spring in Fialta" [or "Vesna v Fial'te"]):
    Name this short story in which the narrator, Victor, relates his memories of a fleeting love affair with a woman named Nina, whom he encounters after several years in a Mediterranean resort town.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov]):
    This author, whose early novels include King, Queen, Knave and The Luzhin Defence, wrote the story "Spring in Fialta."
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pushkin [or Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin]):
    Nabokov included a discussion of Russian poetic meter titled Notes on Prosody as an appendix to his translation of and commentary on Eugene Onegin, a poem by this Russian author of The Bronze Horseman.

[B20] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Name some novels that concern university English professors, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stoner):
    The title character of this 1965 John Williams novel leaves his parents' farm to become an English professor at the University of Missouri. It became a surprise bestseller across parts of Europe in the 2010s.
  Part 2 (ans: Ravelstein):
    The title philosophy professor of this Saul Bellow novel has an ex-wife named Vela and a male lover named Nikki.
  Part 3 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Charles Botkin teaches at Wordsmith College in this author's Pale Fire.

[B21] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by this author is structured around the narrator's walking tour of Suffolk and discusses topics like Thomas Browne's skull and the history of silkworms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Winfried George Sebald):
    Name this author who interspersed black-and-white photographs throughout his novels, including one in which a man who was raised in Wales investigates his parents' fate in the Holocaust.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Sebald was influenced by this writer, who briefly appears in his novel The Emigrants. This author wrote novels like Pnin and Lolita after leaving his native Russia.
  Part 3 (ans: Speak, Memory):
    The Emigrants contains a photograph of Nabokov with a butterfly net. Nabokov himself wrote about his hobby of lepidoptery in this memoir, which also describes his governess Mademoiselle O in its fifth chapter.

[B22] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about a famously difficult literary task.
  Part 1 (ans: translating Kafka into English [or equivalents]):
    The first people to perform this task were the husband-and-wife team Edwin and Willa Muir, working in the 1930s. Princeton professor Stanley Corngold has devoted most of his career to carrying out this task.
  Part 2 (ans: Ungezeifer):
    One of the key tasks for a Kafka translator is determining how to interpret this German word in the first sentence of The Metamorphosis. Literally meaning "an animal unfit for sacrifice", this word has been translated as "vermin", "insect", "cockroach", and even "bedbug".
  Part 3 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    This author argued that translations such as "cockroach" were objectively incorrect due to the physical description offered in the text, concluding "He is merely a big beetle." His own translation work included getting into a fight with Edmund Wilson over the proper way to translate Eugene Onegin from his native Russian.

[B23] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Alexander Pope's work of this type was produced a decade after his rendition of an earlier work, but was half ghost-written by William Broome and Elijah Fenton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: translation of Homer's Odyssey into English):
    Name this type of work. Robert Fagles used the phrase "man of twists and turns" in the opening lines, for a phrase which Robert Fitzgerald rendered as "man skilled in all ways of contending".
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [or Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov]):
    This Russian author's Notes on Prosody accompanied his much-maligned translation of Eugene Onegin. He was responsible for the Russian translation of his own novel Lolita.
  Part 3 (ans: Edith Grossman):
    This woman was called the "Glenn Gould" of translators by Harold Bloom for her translation of Don Quixote. Along with Gregory Rabassa, she is the standard English translator of Gabriel Garcia Marquez.

[B24] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This event is planned after one of its participants flirts with Olga at the name day ceremony of Olga's sister Tatiana. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the duel between Eugene Onegin and Vladimir Lensky [or the duel in the poem Eugene Onegin; or obvious equivalents]):
    Name this fatal incident related in fourteen-line stanzas, which Guillot and Zaretsky, the seconds, do not prevent. It is survived by a dandyish St. Petersburg socialite.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pushkin):
    This part-black poet of The Bronze Horseman wrote the duel scene as part of his long poem Eugene Onegin.
  Part 3 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    This author of King, Queen, Knave harshly criticized Walter Arndt's English translation of Eugene Onegin before producing his own.

[B25] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work by this author, Nikolai cheats with Sasha Lebedev and shoots himself right as the rest of the cast jumps to his defense against the doctor Eugene Lvov. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anton Chekhov):
    Name this author of Ivanov who also wrote about the affair between Dmitri and Anna in his short story "The Lady with the Dog".
  Part 2 (ans: The Cherry Orchard [accept Vishnevyi sad]):
    In this play by Chekhov, Lyuba Ranevsky returns home to Russia after living in France for five years. This play concludes with Lyuba selling her family's estate to Lopakhin after refusing to build cottages on it.
  Part 3 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov [That novel is Ada.]):
    This other author both praised and criticized Chekhov's prose writings in his Lectures on Russian Literature. The planet of Anti-Terra provides the setting to a novel by him in which Van Veen falls in love with his sister.
