=== STOCK CLUES: Hans Memling ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Hans Memling
  - The landscape in Fra Bartolomeo's Madonna and Child with the Young Saint John the Baptist quotes from the background of this artist's Virgin and Child and Two Angels in the Uffizi. [PWR]
  - The crowned title figure kneels next to a wheel and spike and has a ring placed on her finger by Jesus in one of his works. [PWR]
  - He's not Hugo van der Goes, but a kneeling Tommaso Portinari and his wife flank the bottom corners of a Jerusalem cityscape by this artist with 23 scenes from the Passion of Christ. [PWR]
  - The Met owns his (*) Mystic Marriage of St.
  - Catherine.
  - Portinari's partner, Jacopo Toni, commissioned a triptych by this artist seized by pirates which depicts souls entering the Gate of Saint Peter on the left and an armored Michael balancing souls on a scale in its center panel.
  - For 10 points, name this student of Rogier van der Weyden, a German artist best known for his circa 1466 painting Last Judgement. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Hans Memling's The Last Judgment [or Hans Memlinc's The Last Judgment]
  - When this artwork is closed, one can see kneeling donor portraits of Angelo Tani and Caterina Tanagli in front of grisaille statues of the Virgin and Child and reptilian demons clinging to the armor of St.
  - Michael.
  - Though it is not the Portinari altarpiece, Tommaso Portinari can be seen in this painting, in which he is carried by an angel with peacock wings that is wearing a red brocaded robe and armor made of gold.
  - The left side of this painting features angels sitting on a Gothic facade, as people are led up a crystal staircase.
  - The center of this polyptych features a lily of mercy and red sword of justice levitating above the head of Jesus Christ, who appears in a red robe as he rests his feet on a sphere of gold.
  - The bottom of the central panel of this triptych features St.
  - Michael using a scale and crosier to separate the damned and the saved.
  - For 10 points, name this triptych depicting the end times, which was created by Hans Memling. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Hans Memling [or Memlinc] Tiebreaker
  - This artist used whitish tones to depict St.
  - Christopher and St.
  - Anthony Abbot as statues in alcoves on the backside of one work.
  - In the front center panel of that triptych, a man kneels while wearing a collar of gilt roses, demonstrating his Yorkist allegiance as Jesus crumples a page in the Virgin's book and reaches toward a pear.
  - The manger behind the Virgin in his Adora-tion of the Magi features a circular room with stone arches, and he used multiple 90-degree turns to generate hook patterns in his namesake carpets.
  - Tommaso Portinari kneels naked in a golden pan while a red-caped Christ rests his feet on a golden ball in another painting.
  - This student of Rogier van der Weyden showed the life of a Breton princess on a miniature gilt reliquary shaped like a gothic chapel in the Shrine of St.
  - Ursula.
  - For 10 points, name this Bruges-based Netherlandish artist who showed a gold-armored Archangel Michael weighing souls at the center of his Last Judgment. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Hans Memling [or Hans Memlinc]
  - One triptych by this man consists of a withered dead body with a skull for a head on the left, a plump woman vainly looking in a mirror in the center, and a horned demon with a second face on its stomach stomping damned souls with its chicken feet on the right. [PWR]
  - This artist painted the panels housed in gold-gilded wood frames in the St. [PWR]
  - Ursula shrine, found in his adopted hometown. [PWR]
  - Another triptych by this painter of the Triptych of (*) Earthly Vanity and Divine Salvation was captured by pirates and taken to its current place of display in Gdansk. [PWR]
  - In that painting, St.
  - Peter guides saved souls up a staircase to a magnificent palace on the left, a golden-armored Saint Michael weighs naked people using some giant scales in the center, and cast-off sinners tumble into the inferno on the right.
  - For 10 points, name this Northern Renaissance painter from Bruges, a student of Rogier Van Der Weyden who painted a Last Judgment triptych. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Nursery is a triptych from this country that was lost when the Vrouw Maria sank while carrying it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Netherlands [or Nederland; or United Provinces of the Netherlands; or Dutch Republic; accept Dutch Golden Age; accept Holland]):
    Name this home country of Gerrit Dou ("KHAIR-it DOH"), a painter from its Golden Age. The ship Santo Christo di Castello was wrecked while carrying two paintings by another artist from this country, Rembrandt.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum [or ISG]):
    Rembrandt's only seascape, The Storm on the Sea of Galilee, was stolen in 1990 from this Boston art museum, which was founded by and named after a female arts patron.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Judgement by Hans Memling [or Hans Memling's Last Judgement; prompt on The Last Judgement by asking "by whom?"]):
    Title and artist required. Though it wasn't lost, this painting commissioned by Angelo Tani ended up in Gdansk after being stolen at sea by Paul Beneke. The donor Tommaso Portinari may have commissioned his namesake altarpiece from Hugo van der Goes ("hoose") because of this painting.

[B2] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Northern Renaissance altarpieces that went on eventful boat journeys, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  triptych s [accept  Portinari  Triptych ]):
    It took some eight years, and eventually the help of "sixteen burly porters", for a boat to finally travel up the Arno to deliver the Portinari Altarpiece , which is one of these paintings made up of three panels.
  Part 2 (ans:  The  Last Judgment [by Hans Memling]):
    This triptych was stolen at sea by the pirate Paul Beneke and taken to Danzig, frustrating its commissioner Angelo Tani. Coincidentally, Tommaso Portinari was the basis for a figure who sits in a scale in this triptych.
  Part 3 (ans: Matthias  Grunewald):
    A large proportion of this German artist's output was lost at sea while being taken by boat to Sweden. Thankfully, however, this painter's Isenheim Altarpiece survives.

[B3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about portraits of pious donors in Northern Renaissance masterpieces, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Prado Museum [or Museo del Prado or Museo Nacional del Prado; accept Master of the Prado"Adoration of the Magi"] (He was possibly a student of Rogier van der Weyden and contemporary of Hans Memling.)):
    An anonymous Netherlandish master known for this museum's Adoration likely painted donor portraits with Saint Anne to commemorate a birth in his Presentation in the Temple. This Madrid museum displays Las Meninas.
  Part 2 (ans:  Merode Altarpiece [or Merode Triptych; prompt on Annunciation Triptych] (Ingelbrecht means "angel bringer" and Srynmakers means "cabinet-maker" or "shrine-maker.")):
    The enclosed garden in this triptych's left panel contains the praying donors Peter Ingelbrecht and Margarete Scrynmakers, whose surnames influenced its annunciation and workshop scenes. This altarpiece is attributed to Robert Campin.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Fouquet [or Jehan Fouquet]):
    In the left panel of this artist's Melun Diptych, the donor Etienne Chevalier prays next to his own patron saint, Stephen. This miniaturist illuminated a book of hours for Chevalier at the court of Charles VII of France.

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted harbor scenes on the sides of a chapel-shaped reliquary for the bones of Saint Ursula housed in Bruges ("broozh"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hans Memling [accept Memling rugs]):
    Name this student of Rogier van der Weyden who names a style of Orientalist rugs in Renaissance paintings. Saint Michael holds scales underneath a giant rainbow in this artist's version of The Last Judgment.
  Part 2 (ans: triptych [accept the Donne triptych]):
    A non-poet John Donne commissioned one of these artworks by Memling depicting his family praying with musical angels. Robert Campin's Merode Altarpiece is one of these artworks consisting of three folding panels.
  Part 3 (ans: grisaille):
    On the outer wings of the St. John Altarpiece, Memling unusually depicted saints in realistic colors instead of this technique, in which figures are drawn in monochromatic shades to emulate statues. The outside of The Garden of Earthly Delights depicts the Earth with this technique.

[B5] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Carla Gannis created an animation of this artwork that gives its figures rapidly changing emoji heads. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Garden of Earthly Delights):
    Name this work that includes the words "For he spoke, and it came to be; he commanded, and it stood firm" near God, who looks at a translucent, half-filled sphere. A possible self-portrait in this painting depicts a giant with a cracked, egglike torso being impaled by a tree.
  Part 2 (ans: Hieronymous Bosch [or Jheronimus van Aken]):
    This Dutch artist painted The Garden of Earthly Delights as well as multiple triptychs of The Last Judgment.
  Part 3 (ans: Bruges, Belgium (the second painter is Hans Memling)):
    Bosch's Last Judgment scene held in this city features a pink-clad Christ and is more hellish than his Vienna and Munich scenes. A painter who succeeded Petrus Christus as this city's most prominent painter showed St. Michael wearing gold armor and holding scales in his The Last Judgment.

[B6] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building includes a massive work in which Mary and Christ are surrounded by over 300 figures, including a portrait of the artist as Saint Bartholomew holding his own skin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sistine Chapel):
    Identify this building in which Michelangelo painted his massive Last Judgment fresco, and he painted this building's ceiling.
  Part 2 (ans: Hans Memling):
    Saint Michael wears armor and holds scales to judge the dead in this artist's Last Judgment triptych, which ended up in Danzig after pirates stole it.
  Part 3 (ans: William Blake):
    This artist's A Vision of the Last Judgement was lost but reconstructed by the artist in a letter to Ozias Humphrey. Other paintings made by this artist depict his visions of the god Urizen as well as the Great Red Dragon.

[B7] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some things about painters who were active in the Netherlands, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jesus Christ [accept either or any reasonable equivalent]):
    Though he's mostly known for his wood cuts, Albrecht Durer also painted a Self-Portrait at 28, in which he bears a striking resemblance to depictions of this religious figure. Durer also painted this figure Among the Doctors.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck [the work is the Ghent Altarpiece]):
    A crowned Jesus is also painted holding a scepter at the center of this Netherlandish painter's most famous work, now housed in the Cathedral of St. Bavo in present-day Belgium.
  Part 3 (ans: Hans Memling):
    This man's triptych "The Last Judgment" depicts Jesus seated atop a rainbow above an armored St. Michael weighing people on a human-sized balance. He also carved and painted a reliquary for the relics of St. Ursula.

[B8] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A floating red sword points at Jesus, who sits on a golden ring in the center panel of one work by this artist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hans Memling [or Hans Memlinc]):
    This artist carved a Shrine of St. Ursula and made a Passion Polyptych and also showed an armored Archangel Michael weighing souls in the lower center of a triptych of The Last Judgment.
  Part 2 (ans: Flanders [antiprompt on "Antwerp" or "Bruges"; prompt on "Belgium" or "The Netherlands"]):
    Hans Memling worked in this region, which was one of the focal points of the Northern Renaissance. Rubens was another prominent painter from this region.
  Part 3 (ans: Joachim Patinir [or Patenier]):
    This late 15th and early 16th century Flemish artist pioneered the landscape with works like The Baptism of Christ and Landscape with the Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah.

[B9] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following artists who have created paintings of the apocalypse, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopoulos]):
    Nude figures take shelter under green and yellow cloths as a man in blue waves his arms in the air in this artist's The Opening of the Fifth Seal. He also painted a notable View of Toledo.
  Part 2 (ans: Hans Memling [or Hans Memlinc]):
    This man's Last Judgment Triptych, where Jesus sits on a rainbow above an armored angel, was once stolen by the privateer Paul Benecke. This German-born artist of the Flemish Renaissance also created the Shrine of St. Ursula.
  Part 3 (ans: Luca Signorelli):
    This artist from Cortona created the confusing School of Pan and a series of works for the Chapel of the Madonna di San Brizio including the Preaching of the Antichrist and the Damned Consigned to Hell.

[B10] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One work by this artist shows its commissioner, Sir John Donne of Kidwelly, kneeling in front of a red-clothed Virgin Mary, who holds a baby Jesus reaching for a piece of fruit held by an angel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hans Memling [or Hans Memlinc]):
    Name this Netherlandish painter of the Donne Triptych, who is also known for painting six scenes of the titular saint's life on the Shrine of St. Ursula.
  Part 2 (ans: Jesus Christ's Descent from the Cross [or the Deposition of Jesus Christ]):
    Hans Memling was a pupil of Rogier van der Weyden, who painted ten people in this scene in a relatively small amount of space. In that work, a woman in blue has fainted in front of Joseph of Arimathea, who is supporting a dead body.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    Another Flemish painter active at the same time as van der Weyden was this man, whom Vasari claimed invented oil painting with his brothers Lambert and Hubert. He painted a newlywed couple in The Arnolfini Wedding.

[B11] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of this man's altarpieces shows a skull and a cross when closed and has a central panel showing Mary, Jesus, and John the Evangelist, and is called the Braque Triptych. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rogier van der Weyden):
    Name this Flemish painter whose version of the Descent from the Cross notably depicts weeping mourners around Christ. This man was an apprentice of Robert Campin.
  Part 2 (ans: Hans Memling):
    This student of Rogier van der Weyden painted twenty-three images of the life of Jesus in his Scenes from the Passion of Christ, as well as a triptych of the mystic marriage of St. Catherine and a portrait of Falco Portinari.
  Part 3 (ans: Last Judgment):
    Hans Memling painted a version of this scene which shows lots writhing, naked bodies surrounding an armored angel holding a spear. Another version of this scene shows the artist as St. Bartholomew holding his flayed skin.

[B12] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He depicting a man wearing a metal funnel performing brain surgery in his The Extraction of the Stone of Madness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hieronymous Bosch):
    Name this Netherlandish painter of The Garden of Earthly Delights triptych.
  Part 2 (ans: The Ship of Fools):
    An owl sits in a tree from which hangs a pink banner as people sing, eat, drink and vomit aboard the title conveyance in this painting by Bosch, a fragment of a partially lost triptych.
  Part 3 (ans: Hans Memling):
    An armored archangel weighs souls beneath a red-robed Christ in this earlier Netherlandish master's The Last Judgment triptych. His most famous depiction of the Virgin and Child is called the Donne Triptych.
