=== STOCK CLUES: Adonis ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Adunis [or Adonis or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]
  - In one poem, this author included equations stating that the title place plus the title place equals "a hole in the earth's aura leaking rivers of madness," and the title place minus the title place equals "the sun." This author ended a collection with an elegy that concludes, "Dust, gathering on the seasons' windowpanes, / covers the mirrors / and collects on your hands." That collection by this author has sections titled "The Sorcerer of Dust" and "The Knight of Strange Words." The lines (*) "Up to now, Earth has been drawn as a pear / I mean breast" open a poem by this author whose section addressing Walt Whitman repeatedly declares, "the hour announces the time." This author made the first complete translation of The Metamorphoses into Arabic. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, "A Grave for New York" and Songs of Mihyar are by what Syrian poet with a mythological pen name? [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Adonis [or Adunis; or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]
  - This author declares that the 21st century belongs to cats and dogs, in a poem which describes carts full of them floating on the street toward Walt Whitman. [PWR]
  - This author wrote that "I toy with my nation. [PWR]
  - I see its future glimpsed through the eyelashes of an ostrich," in one of the prose "Psalms" found in his best-known book. [PWR]
  - This author described the Statue of Liberty holding up a rag called "freedom" with one hand, and "choking a child named Earth" with the other, in his poem "A Grave for New York." A book by this author examines the parallels between Surrealism and Sufism. [PWR]
  - This poet's most ambitious work is a three-volume epic whose speaker, employing the poet (*) al-Mutannabi as a guide, travels throughout the sixth- to ninth- century Arab world, titled simply The Book, or Al Kitab. [PWR]
  - This author adopts the guise of a different medieval Arab poet in his best-known collection.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Songs of Mihyar the Damascene, a dissident Syrian poet with a Greek mythological pseudonym. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Adonis [accept Ali Ahmad SaidEsber (either underlined name) before "character with this name"]
  - One author with this name described a man "on the mouldy side of the rock of the world" who cries, "Crumble, O statues of liberty, O nails planted in breasts." That author with this name wrote a collection whose title character is "neither a star, nor a prophet's inspiration" but "a king whose dreams are palaces" "in the dominion of the wind." A character with this name is compared to a "dive-dapper peering through a wave" when his "pure shame and awed resistance" lead him to be called a (*) "thing like a man, but of no woman bred." That character laments, "My day's delight is past" after his horse runs off with a mare. [PWR]
  - The lover of that "rose-cheek'd" character with this name compares him to a deer while asking for kisses and denounces Death as a "Grim-grinning ghost" after he dies while hunting.
  - For 10 points, give this shared name of the author of Songs of Mihyar of Damascus and a Shakespearean lover of Venus. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Venus and Adonis
  - This poem describes how "poor birds, deceived with painted grapes, do surfeit by the eye and pine the maw." This poem uses the metaphor of an "oven that is stopp'd," which "burneth more hotly," to demonstrate the strength of concealed feelings.
  - One character in this poem calls another character a "cold and senseless stone" and a "statue contenting but the eye alone." The latter character says "Affection is a coal that must be cool'd" to explain to another character why his horse ran away to pursue a mare.
  - After the death of her beloved, the first title character of this poem asks Death, "Grim-grinning ghost, earth's worm, what dost thou mean to stifle beauty and to steal his breath?" Earlier, the first title character of this poem "seizeth on" the other's "sweating palm" and repeatedly entreats him to kiss her.
  - For 10 points, name this Shakespeare poem whose second title character dies after being gored by a boar. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A long prose poem by this author asks "Does it happen much, that you are awakened from one dream by another, itself the interpretation of the dream?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    Name this author whose poem Memory for Forgetfulness opens "Out of one dream, another dream is born." The refrain "Write down! / I am an Arab," appears in this Palestinian poet's "Identity Card."
  Part 2 (ans: wine [prompt on alcohol]):
    Darwish's poem "A Soldier Dreams of White Lilies" compares love to a glass of this substance. A line in Omar Khayyam's Rubaiyat mentions "a Jug of [this drink], a Loaf of Bread-and Thou."
  Part 3 (ans: Adonis [or Adunis; or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]):
    Darwish's poem "We Fear for a Dream" appears in the volume Victims of a Map, which he co-wrote with Samih al-Qasim and this poet of "Worries (A Dream)." This Syrian poet of Songs of Mihyar the Damascene created the first complete Arabic translation of Ovid's Metamorphoses.

[B2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The Greek woman Mrs. Brewing resides in this city in a poem that calls it a "woman seated in the arc of the wind," "a civilization on four legs," and "a straw woman." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York [or New York City or NYC; accept "A Grave for New York"]):
    Name this city that is the addressee of a 10-part poem that repeats the phrase "the hour announces the time" and claims "Up to now, Earth has been drawn as a pear / I mean breast."
  Part 2 (ans: Adunis ("ah-doh-NEES") [or Adonis; or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]):
    "A Grave for New York" is by this poet, who also wrote a poetry collection that transports the 11th-century poet Mihyar into modern times.
  Part 3 (ans: Lebanon [or Lebanese Republic or Lubnan or al-Jumhuriyya al-Lubnaniyya]):
    In "A Grave for New York," this country "poured a river of anger," where Adunis rose on one bank and this country's author Kahlil Gibran rose on the other.

[B3] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the influence of the 17th-century Italian poet Giambattista Marino, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Baroque poetry):
    Marino was a key figure in the development of this style of heavily ornamented and formally complex poetry. Marino's Spanish admirers Francisco de Quevedo and Luis de Gongora also wrote in this pan-European style.
  Part 2 (ans: Adonis [or L'Adone; accept "Lament for Adonis"]):
    Much of Marino's reputation rests on his once widely-read epic poem titled for this mythological figure. A "lament" for this figure, who suffers a thigh wound, is the only complete surviving poem of the Greek lyric poet Bion.
  Part 3 (ans: de' Medici family [or Marie de' Medici; Lorenzo de' Medici]):
    Marino was patronized by Marie, a member of this powerful Florentine family. Niccolo Machiavelli wrote The Prince for Lorenzo, another member of this family.

[B4] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A verse of this poem's 'Threnos' section laments 'Truth may seem, but cannot be: / Beauty brag, but 'tis not she; / Truth and beauty buried be.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Phoenix and the Turtle):
    Name this poem. In it, Reason is 'confounded' by the love between the title animals whose incompatibility leads to their death.
  Part 2 (ans: Venus and Adonis):
    In this Shakespeare poem about a doomed love affair, a digression in which a horse chases after a mare contrasts with its owner's refusal of the other title figure, a goddess who 'murders with a kiss' their protestations.
  Part 3 (ans: Roman Catholic):
    The Phoenix and the Turtle's line 'For these dead birds sigh a prayer' has been used to argue that Shakespeare secretly belonged to this Christian denomination. Other evidence for that theory includes the Ghost's references to Purgatory in Hamlet.

[B5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet born in this city was influenced by his sister's suicide to write progressive collections like Childhood of a Breast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Damascus [or Dimashq; accept "The Jasmine Scent of Damascus" or "A Damascene Ballad" or Songs of Mihyar the Damascene or "Mawwal Dimashqi" or Aghani Mihyar al-Dimashqi] (Those poets are Nizar Qabbani and Adonis.)):
    Name this city whose "Jasmine Scent" titles a poem by that author. A poet who called this city "a rush of wind" in his poem "A Grave for New York" is best known for a collection about Mihyar, a man from this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Arabic [or al-'arabiyyah]):
    Adonis writes in, and Nizar Qabbani wrote in, this national language of Syria.
  Part 3 (ans: Lebanon [or the Lebanese Republic] (The unnamed poet is Kahlil Gibran.)):
    Adonis wrote Songs of Mihyar the Damascene while in exile in this country. An author from this modern-day country wrote the aphorism-laden poem "Sand and Foam" and a book of prose poems about a native of Orphalese ("OR-fuh-leez").

[B6] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet was nearly shot to death by his rival Gaspare Murtola, with whom he also exchanged sonnets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giambattista Marino [or Giovan Battista Marini; accept Marinism]):
    Name this Italian Baroque poet who lends his name to a highly ornate style of poetry that uses elaborate metaphors and numerous rhetorical devices.
  Part 2 (ans: antithesis):
    Marinism is characterized by the use of this rhetorical figure, which presents two ideas that represent its namesake contrast. As its name suggests, this figure of speech juxtaposes two opposites, as in the biblical "Many are called, but few are chosen."
  Part 3 (ans: Adonis [accept L'Adone or Venus and Adonis]):
    Marino's most famous poem is an epic titled for this mythological figure. In his own lifetime, Shakespeare's most popular published work was a poem titled for this handsome man and his divine lover, Venus.

[B7] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about poets featured in Alejandro Jodorowsky's autobiographical film Endless Poetry.
  Part 1 (ans: Adonis [or Adunis, or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]):
    This poet and pal of Jodorowsky doesn't actually feature in the narrative of the film, but appears as an actor playing the role of filmmaker Andres Racz. This Syrian poet is considered a strong Nobel prize contender.
  Part 2 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    Jodorowsky recounts meeting his girlfriend Stella through this Chilean poet, her former lover. This author of "The Viper" and Antipoems is also considered a perennial Nobel contender; as of 2017 he was still eligible for the prize, having reached the age of 103.
  Part 3 (ans: Paris):
    After befriending the author of the "Surrealist Manifesto," Andre Breton, young Alejandro decides to leave Chile and join the surrealists in this city. This city was also home to Paul Eluard and Antonin Artaud.

[B8] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After this perennial Nobel Prize candidate, and notable classical nom de plume user, lost out to Tomas Transtromer he helped popularize his work in the Arab world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ali Ahmad Said Esber (accept Adonis)):
    Name this Syrian poet and author of The Songs of Mihyar the Damascene who also wrote of being accompanied on a literary journey through Arabia with al-Mutanabbi in a book called al-Kitab.
  Part 2 (ans: Nizar Qabbani):
    This astoundingly popular Syrian poet wrote of his capital in Jasmine Scent of Damascus and is noted for his eroticism in Childhood of a Breast and poems like "In the Summer".
  Part 3 (ans: Underwater (accept word equivalents or "Full fathom five")):
    One of Qabbani's most performed poems is a letter from this sort of place where "your father lies" in a Shakespeare poem.

[B9] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote his novel Kontakion for You Departed in memory of his deceased wife, which recounts his time managing Diepkloof Reformatory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alan Paton [Alan Stewart Paton]):
    Name this author who wrote about Prem being arrested for using a whites-only library in the "Defiance Campaign" section of his novel Ah, But Your Land is Beautiful, inspired by his time in South Africa's Liberal Party.
  Part 2 (ans: Cry, the Beloved Country):
    Paton is best known for this novel, which Maxwell Anderson adapted as the Broadway play Lost in the Stars. In it, Stephen Kumalo deals with the consequences of the killing of Arthur Jarvis by his son Absalom.
  Part 3 (ans: Syria [or Suriyah] [That poet is Adonis]):
    A kontakion is a type of Orthodox liturgical poem developed in this modern-day Middle Eastern country. A contemporary poet born here wrote a collection about his alter-ego Mihyar, and took a pen name from Greek myth.

[B10] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's 1960 collection Songs of Mihyar the Damascene is often seen as the defining modernizing spark in his native language's poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adonis or Ali Ahmad Sa'id):
    Identify this contemporary poet who analyzed the "imitation and innovation" of his language in his critical masterpiece The Fixed and the Changing.
  Part 2 (ans: Arabic):
    Being all Syrian and stuff, Adonis's groundbreaking work is written in this language, whose famous works include The Thousand and One Nights and Layla and Majnun.
  Part 3 (ans: Lebanon):
    Works like The Story of Zahra and Women of Sand and Myrrh have helped make Hanan al-Shaykh, an author from this country, perhaps the most prominent female writer in Arabic literature. Other writers from this country include Elias Khoury and the author of a poetic work set as Almustafa awaits a ship in Orphalese.
