=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Albert Bierstadt ===
(Questions where 'Albert Bierstadt' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 6 found, 39 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2021 The Geography Front (2021) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: Gaspe Peninsula
  - An exposure of the Escuminac (es-ku-MEE-nak) Formation on the shore of this peninsula's Miguasha (mi-GWA-sha) Point contains the largest source of sarcopterygian (sar-kop-te-RI-jan) fish fossils, the ancestors of land-dwelling tetrapods.
  - Its cod fisheries are noted for the only new world use of the Jersey Norman dialect.
  - Albert Bierstadt traveled to this peninsula to paint its salmon fishermen at work on the Cascapedia (kas-ka-PEE-dee-ya) River.
  - Roche Perce (rosh per-SAY), an offshore arched rock, stands at the tip of this peninsula's Bonaventure (bo-na-VEN-tur) National Park, as does Cap Bon-Ami, part of a park created through extortion of landowners on the Forillon Peninsula which contains its nation's tallest lighthouse.
  - The younger McGerrigle and much older Chic-Choc (SHIK-shok) Mountains, the northeasternmost extension of the Appalachians, is located on this peninsula.
  - For 10 points, what is this peninsula south of the St.
  - Lawrence Seaway upon which Jacques Cartier first landed, the southeasternmost extension of Quebec?

[TM2] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: buffalos [or American bison]
  - These animals are the "thunder" in a painting by Sherry Blanchard Stuart.
  - It's not a deer, but one of these animals is called a "monarch" in the name of a sculpture by Henry Merwin Shrady.
  - A photograph of some of these animals by AIDS activist David Wojnarowicz [VOY-nuh-ROH-vitch] was used as the album art for U2's 1992 single "One." Albert Bierstadt's last large landscape painting depicts several (*) carcasses of these animals in the foreground as a man on a white horse drives his sp
  - James Earle Fraser depicted one of these animals on the reverse side of a nickel he designed.
  - Alfred Miller created an imagined scene of some of these animals being driven off a cliff.
  - For 10 points, name these animals that provide the most meat in the hunting section of The Oregon Trail.

[TM3] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: the American West [or the Wild West; accept Westward or Westward, Ho! or Westward the Course of Empire Takes its Way; accept answers indicating the Western part of the United States of America; prompt on Rocky Mountains or Rocky Mountain School by asking "What general region are the Rocky Mountains part of?"]
  - A painting titled after this general region features vignettes of Columbus, Heracles, and the three wise men in its ornate border.
  - Charles Marion Russell is known for his paintings of people from this region.
  - A group of people rest on a rocky outcrop while heading toward this region in an Emanuel Leutze painting titled for the (*) "Course of Empire." In the best known work by John Gast, a white-dressed woman holding a telephone line floats across a landscape toward this region.
  - A sect of the Hudson River School including Albert Bierstadt and Thomas Moran was known for landscapes of locations within this general region.
  - Frederic Remington's Bronco Buster depicts a horseman traditionally from this region.
  - For 10 points, name this part of the United States to which settlers travel in paintings representing manifest destiny.

[TM4] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Hudson River School [prompt on landscape art]
  - A painting by an artist from this movement hangs to the left of a portrait of Washington in the Oval Office.
  - Another painting from this movement is framed by an arch and green curtain as a man reclining atop a column gazes out toward a cathedral, a Roman complex, and a pyramid.
  - A painting from this movement depicts its founder holding a recorder while talking to the poet (*) William Cullen Bryant.
  - Albert Bierstadt and the artist of Kindred Spirits, Asher Durand, are painters from this movement.
  - A painting from this movement includes a small self portrait of its artist in the foreground and is set during a thunderstorm over the Connecticut River.
  - For 10 points, name this art movement founded by Thomas Cole, a group of landscape painters who often depicted its namesake New York river.

[TM5] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: boats [or ships; or watercraft; or sailboats; prompt on sails or other parts of a sailing ship until "angels" is read]
  - A large one of these objects appears beside a smaller one behind a house to the left in the background of Albert Bierstadt's Gosnold at Cuttyhunk.
  - Fitz Hugh Lane's work focuses on these objects, which feature in his painting of Owl's Head.
  - One of these objects owned by Dr.
  - Isaac Hayes appears in the bottom left of Frederick Edwin Church's Aurora Borealis.
  - Some of these objects can be seen inside the title container in the painting Titan's Goblet.
  - In a set of paintings by that same artist, a group of angels, the frontmost of which holds an hourglass, make up one of these objects; that series is The Voyage of Life by Thomas Cole.
  - For 10 points, name these vehicles which Hudson River School artists often depicted on water in their landscapes.

[TM6] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Hudson River School [accept luminism]
  - One member of this art movement depicted flames inside a castle situated on a hill with clouds over it.
  - That painter of The Spirit of War is named Jasper Francis Cropsey.
  - Another member of this movement painted an encampment in front of a lake fed by a river coming from Lander's Peak.
  - One member of this group painted a pyramid, a Gothic cathedral, and a Greek temple in The Architect's Dream.
  - Works by this movement include a painting of two men on an outcropping in the Catskill Mountains and a series of five works showing the growth and decline of a city.
  - Those works are Kindred Spirits and The Course of Empire.
  - For 10 points, name this group whose members included Albert Bierstadt, Asher Durand and Thomas Cole.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: John Constable painted hundreds of studies of these objects at Hampstead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: clouds [accept cloudscapes; accept Sky Above Clouds IV]):
    Name these objects, cone-shaped examples of which were commonly depicted by Albert Bierstadt. These objects are rendered as rows of rectangles as viewed from above in a Georgia O'Keeffe painting in a stairwell at the Art Institute of Chicago.
  Part 2 (ans: Declaration of Independence):
    Abraham Lincoln's head is traced by clouds in a Barry Faulkner mural next to this document at the National Archives. This object is signed in a John Trumbull painting on the $2 bill.
  Part 3 (ans: Iowa [or IA; accept the Iowa people or Iowa tribe] (The painting is American Gothic by Grant Wood.)):
    George Catlin painted a green handprint on the face of White Cloud, a chief of the tribe that names this US state. A painting set in this state depicts a couple in front of the Dibble House.

[BM2] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many members of this movement worked out of the newly-built West Tenth Street Studio Building in New York City. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Name this nineteenth-century American landscape art movement named for a landform and led by Thomas Cole.
  Part 2 (ans: Asher Durand [or Asher Brown Durand]):
    This Hudson River School artist depicted Cole alongside his friend William Cullen Bryant in the Catskill Mountains in his painting Kindred Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Dusseldorf [or Dusseldorf Academy]):
    Another Hudson River School artist, Albert Bierstadt, studied for three years at this German city's Academy. This city is also renowned for its School of Photography, where Andreas Gursky captured two views of the Rhine.

[BM3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A chapter on the "impulse" represented by these objects in Svetlana Alpers's The Art of Describing connects a depiction of one of them to later paintings by Jasper Johns and Albert Bierstadt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: maps [or word forms of mapping; accept charts or atlases; accept cartography or word forms; reject "globes"]):
    What sort of object created by Claes Visscher ("clahss VISS-er") bears the Latin inscription "Descriptio" in a painting in which it appears behind a golden chandelier?
  Part 2 (ans: The Allegory of Painting [or The Art of Painting, The Painter in His Studio, The Artist's Studio, The Painter and His Model, De Schilderkunst, Allegorie op de Schilderkunst, or De schilder en zijn model]):
    That detailed map appears in this Vermeer painting, which depicts an artist and a model in blue who holds a trumpet and a book.
  Part 3 (ans: Hendrik Goltzius):
    Alpers's analysis of the "mapping impulse" discusses landscapes by this virtuosic Dutch Mannerist engraver. During a trip to Rome, this friend of Karel van Mander created an engraving of the back of the Farnese ("far-NAY-zay") Hercules.

[BM4] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After immigrating as a young man to New Bedford, this artist returned to Dusseldorf to study art in his native Germany before joining several expeditions out west. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Name this artist who depicted a Native American holding a feathered spear while hunting on horseback in the painting The Last of the Buffalo.
  Part 2 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Albert Bierstadt was a German-born member of this American school of painting and was known for his large, sweeping landscapes. Its other members include Thomas Cole and Asher Durand.
  Part 3 (ans: storms [accept snow storms or thunderstorms or tempests]):
    A Native American camp appears beneath Lander's Peak in Bierstadt's painting of one of these events "in the Rocky Mountains." J. M. W. Turner's painting of Hannibal crossing the Alps is titled for one of these events.

[BM5] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Prisoners of war held at Fort Marion during the Red River War produced a form of "ledger art" designed to imitate drawings on the hides of these animals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: buffalo [or The Last of the Buffalo; accept American bison]):
    Name these large mammals. A native American on horseback dramatically thrusts a spear at one of these animals in a painting by Albert Bierstadt.
  Part 2 (ans: Yellowstone National Park [accept Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone]):
    Bierstadt's fellow Rocky Mountain school artist, Thomas Moran, is likely best-known for a painting that depicts the "Grand Canyon of [this national park]". Other paintings of this national park by Moran commissioned by the US Geologic Survey are said to have inspired President Grant to federally pro
  Part 3 (ans: Oklahoma (The group of artists is the Kiowa Six; the museum is Oklahoma City's art museum)):
    The Fort Marion ledger artists heavily inspired Stephen Mopope, a member of a group of six artists from this state that bridged ledger art with the flat-style of Plains art. A museum in this state houses a 55-foot blown glass tower by Dale Chihuly dedicated to its founder Eleanor Blake Kirkpatrick.

[BM6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist died of a cold at age 26 in Hoosick Falls, New York, not long after completing his final painting, Meadow Brook. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Bliss Baker):
    Name this student of Albert Bierstadt and Maurits (MAO-ritz) de Haas who created Morning after the Snow and Fallen Monarchs.
  Part 2 (ans: forest [or a pine forest; or the woods; do not accept or prompt on specifically incorrect sorts of forest such as "rainforest" or "redwood forest"]):
    Baker's Fallen Monarchs depicts one of these natural environments. Ivan Shishkin depicted one of these places in a painting titled for its Distance, and Konstantin Savitsky added bears to a Shishkin painting of Morning in one of these places.
  Part 3 (ans: cypresses [or Cupressus; or Cupressoideae]):
    A painting by Kano Eitoku (kah-NOH AY-toh-ku), a National Treasure of Japan, is a screen depicting this kind of tree. Vincent van Gogh painted three scenes of a Wheat Field with these trees at the right, and one of these trees appears at the left of his Starry Night.

[BM7] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about the artist Fitz Henry Lane, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: ships [or boats]):
    Lane is best known for his paintings of these things. The only painting of one of these man-made objects by Rembrandt was stolen from the Gardner Museum in 1990.
  Part 2 (ans: Luminism):
    After his death, Lane was grouped into this American art movement, which gets its name from the painters' focus on light. John I. H. Baur coined the name of this movement and included artists such as Alfred Thompson Bricher in it.
  Part 3 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Several artists from this other school of American landscape artists, such as Albert Bierstadt, made Luminist works. This movement was founded by Thomas Cole.

[BM8] 2017 Delta Burke (2017) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Albert Bierstadt is considered part of this group of artists despite moving West later in his career. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Though famous for his depictions of South America, like Cotopaxi and Heart of the Andes, Frederic Church is considered part of what school of American landscape painters?
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Cole):
    The most important painter of the Hudson River School is this artist of series like The Course of Empire and The Voyage of Life, who was depicted talking to William Cullen Bryant in the painting Kindred Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: The Oxbow):
    The violence of a storm is contrasted with the placid weather near the title bend of the Connecticut River in this painting by Cole.

[BM9] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An Erwin Panofsky essay argues that this painting's title object was inspired by Norse mythology, in contrast to Theophilus Stringfellow Jr., who argued that it is a "microcosm of man." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Titan's Goblet):
    Name this landscape by Thomas Cole that depicts a vast sea, a Greek temple, and architectural ruins within and on the rim of the title object.
  Part 2 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Thomas Cole is a member of the school of painting named for this river in New York. Its other painters included Albert Bierstadt and Frederic Church.
  Part 3 (ans: J. M. W. Turner):
    In an article about The Titan's Goblet, Ellwood Parry argued that the painting was inspired by this artist's Ulysses Deriding Polyphemus; his other classical-inspired paintings include Ovid Banished from Rome.

[BM10] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted several wigwams at an Indian camp near a waterfall at Lander's Peak in one work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Name this German-American artist of the Rocky Mountain School who showed an Indian on a rearing horse attacking one of the title animals in The Last of the Buffalo.
  Part 2 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Albert Bierstadt was also considered to be a part of this art movement that included many landscape painters like Asher Durand and Thomas Cole.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Moran):
    This other Rocky Mountain School painter traveled through the Grand Canyon, which inspired him to create many paintings of the area such as two with the title Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone.
