=== STOCK CLUES: Albert Bierstadt ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ARCHIVE (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albert Bierstadt
  - This artist borrowed from the Barberini Faun for the man sleeping next to a dog in the foreground of his painting of a Roman fish market by the Arch of Octavius. [PWR]
  - After selling a painting to English railroad tycoon James McHenry for $25,000, this artist built an estate called Malkasten. [PWR]
  - A shipwreck prematurely ended an Alaskan journey undertaken by this artist, but did serve as inspiration for his gloomy painting The Wreck of the (+) Ancon. [PWR]
  - One of this artist's best-known paintings was adapted from sketches and photographs he took while on the Honey Road Survey Party. [PWR]
  - A lowlight for this artist was the rejection of his massive canvas The Last of the Buffalo for the 1889 Paris Exposition. [PWR]
  - One of this artist's best-known paintings was exhibited for twenty five cents at a private venue in Boston in 1863 and depicted a feature sometimes known as Saber Tooth. [PWR]
  - This artist's masterpiece, The (*) Rocky Mountains, Lander's Peak, is often compared to Frederic Edwin Church's Heart of the Andes.
  - For 10 points, name this Hudson River School artist who was born in Germany. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albert Bierstadt
  - This artist, the owner of the massive house Malkasten, often enlisted his impoverished friend Charles Sanders Peirce  in invention schemes such as transformable train cars.
  - Ten years after Congress refused to pay this artist a hefty 80,000 dollars for a pair of paintings for the Capitol, he staged an unauthorized exhibition in the House Chamber to secure the commission.
  - This painter's late-career paintings of the tropics include The Shore of the Turquoise Sea.
  - This artist mostly stopped painting after the 1889 Paris Exposition Universelle rejected his "old-fashioned" painting The Last of the Buffalo.
  - Due to similarities such as a central waterfall, this man's breakout painting is often compared to The Heart of the Andes by Fredric Edwin Church, an earlier Hudson River School painter.
  - The 1863 painting The Rocky Mountains, Lander's Peak is by, for 10 points, what German-American landscape painter? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: William Keith belonged to a Tonalist art movement in this state, which also included a painter who depicted 71 people in front of a train. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: California [or CA; accept Early California Artists]):
    Name this state whose group of "Early Artists" included Thomas Hill. Elk are dwarfed by mountains in a painting depicting this state.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Among the Sierra Nevada was a painting by this German-American member of the Hudson River School. This artist depicted a Native American on horseback in his painting The Last of the Buffalo.
  Part 3 (ans: Impressionism [or Impressionists]):
    California artists Guy Rose and William Merritt Chase were members of this art movement. Non-American artists from this movement included Claude Monet.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Artists like Susie Barstow and Eliza Greatorex appeared in the Catskills exhibition "Remember the Ladies" about women artists from this movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Name this American movement of landscape painters founded by Thomas Cole.
  Part 2 (ans: Niagara Falls [accept Horseshoe Falls; accept Niagara]):
    Louisa Davis Minot painted finger-like rocks below this location. In 1857, that painting of this location was exhibited in a darkened gallery where viewers saw a dead tree David Huntington compared to "imminent doom."
  Part 3 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Shoshone women appear camped by a Rocky Mountain lake in a painting by this artist set at Lander's Peak. This German-American painter depicted elk dwarfed by mountains in his Among the Sierra Nevada, California.

[B3] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A straw-hat wearing figure in this painting points with a stick to the ravine at the center of this work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kindred Spirits):
    Name this painting which shows William Cullen Bryant and one of the artists recently deceased friends standing together on a rocky outcropping.
  Part 2 (ans: Asher Brown Durand):
    This artist commemorated his friend Thomas Cole in Kindred Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Like Durand, this later painter did some work in New Hampshire's Pinkham Notch region, though this non-Thomas Moran artist is probably better known for painting landscapes of the Rocky Mountains and scenes of western expansion like The Last of the Buffalo.

[B4] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist of Storm in the Mountains painted many views of Yosemite National Park and has a lake in Colorado named after him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Name this German-born member of the Hudson River School.
  Part 2 (ans: luminism):
    Bierstadt occasionally painted in this style which succeeded the Hudson River School. This term was coined by John Baur in 1954 to describe works of John Frederick Kensett and Fitz Hugh Lane which have dominant skies and clear light.
  Part 3 (ans: George Caleb Bingham):
    Another occasional luminist was this painter of Shooting for the Beef and Fur Traders Descending the Missouri.

[B5] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted several wigwams at an Indian camp near a waterfall at Lander's Peak in one work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albert Bierstadt):
    Name this German-American artist of the Rocky Mountain School who showed an Indian on a rearing horse attacking one of the title animals in The Last of the Buffalo.
  Part 2 (ans: Hudson River School):
    Albert Bierstadt was also considered to be a part of this art movement that included many landscape painters like Asher Durand and Thomas Cole.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Moran):
    This other Rocky Mountain School painter traveled through the Grand Canyon, which inspired him to create many paintings of the area such as two with the title Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone.
