=== STOCK CLUES: Tosca ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 54 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charlie Chaplin [or Charles Chaplin, Jr.; or Charles Spencer Chaplin] (The theme inspired by Tosca is "Smile," from Modern Times.)
  - This composer was assisted by David Raksin, who later scored Laura, in scoring a film with a theme inspired by the first-act love duet from Tosca. [PWR]
  - In 1966, this composer was adamant that then-16-years-dead Al Jolson sing his song "This is My Song," which was finally sung by Petula Clark. [PWR]
  - This composer, who was the uncle of Jefferson Airplane drummer Spencer Dryde, was the son of an alcoholic father and asylum patient mother, whom he supported by clog dancing. [PWR]
  - At age 84, this composer won his only competitive Oscar for a song known as "Terry's Theme" or "Eternally," due to the 1973 re-release of (*) Limelight. [PWR]
  - Michael Jackson's favorite song was this composer's "Smile," the love theme for a film starring his then-wife Paulette Goddard.
  - Alfred Newman arranged this musician's score for a film that cribbed the habanera "La Violetera" as a leitmotif for a blind florist.
  - For 10 points, name this composer whose first score for films he himself directed was 1931's City Lights. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Italian [or italiano; or lingua italiana; accept Tuscan or dialetto toscano or Florentine or dialetto fiorentino or vernacolo fiorentino] (Guido Cavalcanti's "Donna mi prega" translates to "A lady asks me.")
  - In a poem in this language, a poet asks the protagonist if he wrote the line "Ladies who have intelligence of love." That line appears in a poem in this language in which Love tells a poet in Latin, "ego dominus tuus," or "I am your lord." T.
  - S.
  - Eliot quoted a poet who wrote in this language with the line "Because I do not hope to turn again." That poet, who wrote a song whose title is translated as "A lady asks me," founded a literary school that influenced a prosimetrum on courtly love in this language.
  - Works in the sweet new style movement in this language include the love poem The New Life.
  - In a long narrative poem in this language, Beatrice and Virgil act as guides to a poet traveling through hell, purgatory, and heaven.
  - For 10 points, name this language used by Dante to write The Divine Comedy. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Tosca
  - The tenor character in this opera blasts the notes "C-sharp, F-sharp, F-sharp" and "F-sharp, A-sharp, A-sharp" in the same rhythm during a scene in which the words "Vittoria! [PWR]
  - Vittoria!" are sung out of excitement.
  - A church choir in this opera, directed by the sacristan, celebrates a general's presumed defeat at the Battle of Marengo by singing the Te Deum  while this opera's villain exclaims, "You make me forget even (*) God." In this opera, after his hiding place in a den in a wall is discovered, the former consul of the Roman Republic, Angelotti, kills himself to avoid being captured by agents. [PWR]
  - A character who sings "Vissi d'arte"  in this opera jumps to her death after Cavaradossi is killed.
  - For 10 points, name this opera about the title diva by Giacomo Puccini. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Grand Duchy of Tuscany [or Granducato di Toscana; accept Kingdom of Etruria; prompt on Duchy of Florence or Ducato di Firenze until "Florence" is read by asking "what larger state was that part of during the era clued?"]
  - The creation of a Guianese colony for this duchy was the aim of the Thornton expedition. [PWR]
  - This duchy signed secret anti-Ottoman treaties with the celali  Ali Janbulad and the Druze emir Fakhr al-Din, who then had to flee to its capital. [PWR]
  - A science patron from this duchy, Christina of Lorraine, was the addressee of a letter reconciling Copernicanism and scripture. [PWR]
  - An enlightened despot from this duchy sponsored a Febronian church reform at the Synod of Pistoia and made it the first state to abolish the death penalty in 1787. [PWR]
  - France gave (*) Spain territory in this duchy in exchange for Louisiana in the Third Treaty of San Ildefonso.
  - This duchy was ruled by Ferdinando I and by Joseph II's brother, Leopold I.
  - This duchy home to Galileo became "grand" when it replaced a state named for its capital under Cosimo I.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian duchy once ruled by the Medicis from Florence. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Tuscany [or Toscana; accept Tuscan or dioletto toscano; prompt on Italy; prompt on the Italian Peninsula] (The unnamed poets are Compiuta Donzella and Cecco Angiolieri.)
  - Following her arranged marriage, the first known female poet from this region lamented, "I live each hour in great torment; / neither flower nor leaf rejoices me." An essay from this region jests that, if inhabitants of a neighboring region forgot about the letter "z," they would have to invent a new language. [PWR]
  - A comic poet from this region, who compared himself to a cattle-prod and his contemporary to an ox, wrote an anaphora-heavy poem that begins, "If I were fire, I would consume the world." An author from this region criticized scripture for giving (*) speech to woman before man in an essay written in exile that examines the eloquence of vernacular language. [PWR]
  - A poet used this region's dialect rather than Latin for a prosimetrum on his love for a woman whom he first met at age nine.
  - For 10 points, what region's dialect was used by the author of La Vita Nuova? [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Answer: Tuscany [or Toscana; prompt on Florence until read; prompt on Chianti and Valdichiana by asking "what broader region is that in?" until "Chianti" is read; prompt on Italy until "Italian" is read] (The foods in the first two clues are lampredotto and schiacciata alla Fiorentina, and the "stale bread salad" is panzanella.)
  - A unique street food served in this region's largest city is made by slow-cooking the fourth stomach of a cow and is named after its resemblance to lamprey eels. [PWR]
  - An orange-zest flavored sponge cake served in this region during Carnival is traditionally topped with a fleur-de-lis  dusted in cocoa. [PWR]
  - A tomato and onion salad from this region is named after the (*) stale bread that it repurposes. [PWR]
  - As an homage to a legend of a medieval border dispute between two rival provinces in this region, a black rooster appears on "classico" bottles of a red wine that is made in a part of this region, chianti , as designated by its former Grand Duke Cosimo III.
  - For 10 points, what central Italian region is home to the cities of Siena and Florence? [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Tosca
  - During a performance of this opera, Maria Callas's  hair caught on fire, leading Tito Gobbi to leap onto her to put it out. [PWR]
  - This opera opens with the recurring motif of three loud, spooky, brassy major chords on B-flat, A-flat, and E. [PWR]
  - A character in this opera trades his last possession of a ring to deliver a letter to the title character, leading him to sing about how "the Earth was scented" in the aria (*) "E lucevan le stelle" . [PWR]
  - This opera's title character sings the aria "Vissi d'arte"  after Baron Scarpia attempts to blackmail her, and in its finale, the title character kills herself by jumping off a parapet after the execution of her lover Mario Cavaradossi.
  - For 10 points, name this opera about the title singer by Giacomo Puccini. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Tosca [The 'bouncing' version refers to Tosca reappearing after jumping off the castle due to replacement of a mattress with a trampoline]
  - One aria in this opera begins in E-flat minor, starting with a descending Eb-Db-Bb-Ab phrase, before shifting to E-flat major.
  - The naturalist Gerald Durrell is one of a number of people who refer to a 'bouncing' version of this opera, though none have ever been corroborated.
  - At the start of this opera, a character looks for a key hidden in the feet of a statue of the Virgin Mary.
  - This opera's most celebrated aria is often performed lying down; that aria, 'Vissi d'arte', is sung by the title character after she has been offered her lover's freedom in exchange for sex with Baron Scarpia.
  - For 10 points, name this melodramatic opera by Giacomo Puccini which ends with its title character jumping off the Castel Sant'Angelo. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Floria Tosca
  - Giulio Gatti-Casazza claimed that the longest ovation he had seen at the Met was when Maria Jeritza sang this character's most famous aria while entirely lying prone. [PWR]
  - An aria signifying a letter written to this woman is introduced by a clarinet solo and begins with repeated C sharp and F sharp notes: that aria is "E lucevan e stelle." This character, who sings the aria "Non la sospiri, la nostra casetta," claims that she always decorated altars with flowers in an aria beginning E-flat, D-flat, B-flat, A-flat. [PWR]
  - In the aria (*) "Recondita armonia," a blonde model for Mary Magdalene is contrasted with this dark-haired character, who betrays the hiding place of Angelotti.
  - After this soprano finds out that her lover Cavaradossi's fake execution was actually real, she commits suicide by jumping off the Castel Sant'Angelo.
  - "Vissi d'arte" is sung by, for 10 points, what title woman of a Giacomo Puccini opera? [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Tosca
  - In the first act of this opera, choir boys who mistakenly believe Michael von Melas has won a battle sing a "Te Deum" chorus; in that same act, "Recondita armonia" is sung comparing a lover to a painting. [PWR]
  - A character reassures his lover of his fidelity with the aria "Qual'occhio al mondo." That lover later sings an aria in which "I donated jewels to the Madonna's mantle" and "I never harmed a living soul," (*) "Vissi d'Arte," after she feels abandoned. [PWR]
  - That character later stabs and kills Scarpia, reneging on an agreed plan; Mario Cavardossi is then killed via firing squad.
  - For 10 points, name this opera which ends with the title singer jumping off Castel Sant-Angelo following the death of her lover, a work composed by Giacomo Puccini. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2024, Christian Thielemann took over as principal conductor of this city's Staatskapelle orchestra from Daniel Barenboim. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Berlin [accept West Berlin; accept Berlin Philharmonic or Berlin Philharmoniker or Staatskapelle Berlin]):
    Name this capital city whose philharmonic orchestra was briefly led by Leo Borchard before he was shot by American occupiers after its conductor Wilhelm Furtwangler fled from Gestapo arrest.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergiu Celibidache ("CHELL-ee-bee-DAH-kay")):
    Borchard was replaced by this conductor, a pupil of Furtwangler. The Berlin Philharmonic's election of Herbert von Karajan so angered this Romanian conductor that he did not return to the orchestra for nearly 50 years.
  Part 3 (ans: radio network [or radio network or broadcasting network or public broadcaster; accept radio station; accept radio symphony; accept TV network; prompt on NBC or National Broadcasting Corporation or Hessischer Rundfunk by asking "what kind of business is that?"; prompt on media company] (Toscanini founded the NBC Symphony Orchestra.)):
    Arturo Toscanini, who founded an early orchestra operated by one of these companies, criticized Wilhelm Furtwangler for his perceived Nazi association. Frankfurt's hr-Sinfonieorchester ("H-R symphony orkester") is named for its management by one of these companies.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A president of this country led the Massacre of Salsipuedes ("sahl-see-PWAY-dace") to eradicate the Charrua ("chah-ROO-ah") people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Uruguay):
    Name this country whose independence movement was led by the 33 Orientals. The defense government was formed during a siege in the Guerra Grande ("GAIR-ah GRAHN-day") civil war in this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Montevideo):
    An intervention by Brazil and Argentina allowed the Colorados to hold onto this Uruguayan capital city during the Guerra Grande.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Fructuoso Rivera y Toscana):
    The Colorados were founded by this general, who fought for Uruguayan independence in the army of Jose Gervasio Artigas ("hair-BAH-see-oh ar-TEE-goss"). This man served as president three times and was succeeded by Venancio Flores ("bay-NAHN-see-oh FLOH-race") upon his death.

[B3] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A 2010 Nature article analyzed the preserved remains of a chief of this Indigenous people upon their 2002 return by France, where he was one of four final members publicly exhibited in the 1830s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charrua [accept garra charrua; prompt on pampidos] (The massacre is the Salsipuedes massacre.)):
    Name these people massacred in 1831 at a site meaning "get out if you can." Modern citizens of the country whose government eradicated these people often use their name patriotically in honor of their tenacity, or "garra."
  Part 2 (ans: Fructuoso Rivera [or Jose Fructuoso Rivera y Toscana]):
    The Charrua genocide was orchestrated by this first president of Uruguay. This founder of the Colorado Party faced off with the Blanco Party of the rival caudillo Manuel Oribe in the Guerra Grande.
  Part 3 (ans: Guarani [accept Guarani-Kaiowa or Nandeva or Chawuncu or Chiriguano or Simba Guarani or Ava Guarani; accept Guarani War; prompt on Tupi-Guarani]):
    Uruguayan national hero Jose Gervasio Artigas adopted the honorific "Karai-Guasu," meaning "grand sir," while living in exile among this indigenous people of Paraguay.

[B4] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera was controversially referred to as a "shabby little shocker" by musicologist Joseph Kerman in his 1956 book Opera as Drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tosca):
    Name this opera. After Kerman's scathing remarks, the conductor Thomas Beecham responded by saying that anything Kerman says about this opera's composer "can safely be ignored."
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini [or Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini]):
    Tosca is an opera by this composer. The Jonathan Larson musical Rent is based on his opera La boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: Enrico Caruso):
    Puccini considered casting this young operatic tenor as Cavaradossi for the premiere of Tosca, but selected the older Emilio De Marchi instead, which he later regretted. This Italian tenor sold over a million copies of his recordings of "Vesti la giubba" ("VESS-tee la JOOB-bah") from Pagliacci ("pahl-YAH-chee").

[B5] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This conductor published a controversial letter in support of the composer Paul Hindemith, who had been banned as a "degenerate artist" by the Nazi Party. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wilhelm Furtwangler ("FURT-veng-ler")):
    Name this German conductor whose opposition to the Third Reich partly led to his rivalry with Herbert von Karajan ("KAH-rah-yon").
  Part 2 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    Before the Nazis interfered, Furtwangler was offered to be the principal conductor of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, succeeding this conductor. This Italian conductor also led the NBC Orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: Berlin [accept Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra or Berliner Philharmoniker]):
    Furtwangler and Karajan were both conductors of this German capital city's philharmonic orchestra.

[B6] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Despite being extremely popular in his day, Antonio Vivaldi's music went largely ignored after his death until the 20th century. Name some things about his revival, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: violin):
    Fritz Kreisler helped spur interest in Vivaldi's music by writing a Concerto in C, in the Style of Vivaldi, for this instrument. This instrument is also featured in Vivaldi's own L'estro Armonico and Four Seasons.
  Part 2 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    This conductor programmed a Concerto Grosso by Vivaldi for the first-ever concert of the NBC Symphony Orchestra, held on Christmas Day 1937. He led that orchestra for 17 years.
  Part 3 (ans: Gloria [or Gloria in excelsis Deo; or RV 589]):
    Alfred Casella organized a Vivaldi Week in Siena in 1939, during which this sacred piece was revived. The motets Longe Mala and Ostro Picta were written as introduzioni to this piece, the second of only two of Vivaldi's pieces of its kind to survive.

[B7] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Gustavus Adolphus was assassinated at a court ball in 1789, and while Scribe and Auder based a grand opera on the plot, it needed to be disguised in Austrian-dominated Italy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Viva Vittorio Emanuele Re d'Italia):
    While the politics of the composer of Un ballo in maschera are ambiguous, this slogan was associated with Risorgimento. It supported the ascension of the first king of a united Italy since the 6th century.
  Part 2 (ans: Va, pensiero [accept Chorus of the Hebrew Slaves]):
    At Verdi's funeral, 28,000 people lining the streets sang this chorus from Nabucco in the spirit of the movement. Inspired by Psalm 137, the first line means, "Go, thought, on wings of gold."
  Part 3 (ans: Alberto Toscanini):
    The performance of "Va, pensiero" at Verdi's funeral was led by this Italian conductor. He gained fame as the first conductor of the NBC Symphony Orchestra, and was known for his brisk style.

[B8] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This singer made her 1944 debut as Elena in Mefistofele, an opera she later recorded under the baton of Tullio Serafin in 1958, singing the role of Margherita. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Renata Tebaldi):
    Name this lyric soprano who was featured opposite Mario del Monaco in a series of classic recordings of Puccini and Verdi operas for Decca.
  Part 2 (ans: James Levine):
    Tebaldi had an extremely productive relationship with the Met Opera. Her retirement roughly coincided with the appointment of this American conductor, who served as the Met's music director from 1976-2016.
  Part 3 (ans: Tosca):
    Tebaldi and her rival Maria Callas both gave significant performances of this Puccini role, the lover of the painter Mario Cavaradossi and killer of Baron Scarpia.

[B9] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character becomes jealous after noticing that the eyes in her lover's painting of Mary Magdalene are modeled on those of the Marchesa Attavanti. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Floria Tosca [accept either]):
    Name this opera character who leaps off of a wall after finding out that Cavaradossi is dead and that Baron Scarpia has betrayed her.
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo (Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria) Puccini):
    Tosca is by this Italian composer, whose other operas includes Madama Butterfly.
  Part 3 (ans: "Recondita Armonia"):
    This is the aria that Cavaradossi sings while discussing combining Tosca's dark hair and Attavanti's blue eyes in the features of his painting of Mary Magdalene.

[B10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: According to an old joke, a kid asks an old man how to get to this place, to which the man replies "Practice!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carnegie Hall):
    Name this prestigious classical music venue in Manhattan that was established by a steel mogul.
  Part 2 (ans: Elliott Carter):
    Carnegie Hall was where Daniel Barenboim performed this composer's Interventions for his hundredth birthday party. This American composer used a chiasmatic structure for the seven movements of his Double Concerto for harpsichord, piano, and two chamber orchestras.
  Part 3 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    This Italian-born conductor gave a series of concerts at Carnegie Hall as director of the NBC Symphony Orchestra, in which capacity he premiered Barber's Adagio for Strings. Earlier, while conducting Puccini's Turandot, he said, "Here the opera ends, because at this point the maestro died."

[B11] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Leonard Bernstein said that this piece was not a true composition, but rather "a string of separate paragraphs stuck together." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rhapsody in Blue):
    Name this piece by George Gershwin, which premiered at a concert called An Experiment in Modern Music, and which opens with a famous clarinet glissando.
  Part 2 (ans: portamento):
    This Italian term is sometimes used interchangeably with glissando, but in general it refers to a smooth sliding between notes, common in vocal music.
  Part 3 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    A legendary 1942 recording of Rhapsody in Blue was made with pianist Earl Wild, clarinetist Benny Goodman, and this Italian conductor, the first music director of the NBC Symphony Orchestra.

[B12] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The reputation of the composer of this piece as a fomenter of the Risorgimento suffered after historians discovered that Immenso Jehova, and not this piece, was the subject of Milanese encore requests. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Va, pensiero sull'ali dorate" [or "The Chorus of the Hebrew Slaves"; accept Hebrew Slave Chorus or similar alternate formulations]):
    Name this piece from an 1842 opera, which opens by asking thought to fly on wings of gold.
  Part 2 (ans: Nabucco):
    "Va, Pensiero" appears in this Giuseppi Verdi opera about the exiled Jews.
  Part 3 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    At Verdi's funeral, a chorus of 820 singing "Va pensiero" was led by this Italian conductor, who later helmed the NBC Symphony Orchestra.

[B13] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The singer of this aria recalls "sweet kisses and languorous caresses" before sobbing, "I die in desperation / And I never before 6 loved life so much." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "E lucevan le stelle" [or "And the stars were shining"]):
    Name this aria sung by a painter as he awaits execution in a prison cell at the Castel Sant'Angelo.
  Part 2 (ans: Tosca):
    Cavaradossi sings "E lucevan le stele" in the third act of this Puccini opera that concludes with the title singer jumping to her death of the roof of the Castel Sant'Angelo.
  Part 3 (ans: "Vissi d'arte" [or "I lived for art"]):
    Tosca sings this aria in the second act while she deliberates whether she should sleep with the chief of police Scarpia to save her beloved Cavaradossi from execution.

[B14] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these conductors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Serge Koussevitzky):
    This man commissioned the Symphony of Psalms and the fourth symphony of Prokofiev. Identify this conductor of the Boston Symphony Orchestra.
  Part 2 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    This conductor, famed for heading the NBC Orchestra, premiered Grofe's Grand Canyon Suite and Barber's Adagio for Strings.
  Part 3 (ans: Hector Berlioz):
    This composer and conductor is famed for his Requiem, which he conducted after Francois Habeneck took snuff during its premiere. As a composer, he is known for Symphonie fantastique.

[B15] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He conducted the world premiers of Pagliacci, La boheme, and Turandot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    Name this first music director of the NBC Symphony Orchestra, an Italian conductor known for his photographic memory, his brisk and direct conducting style, and his fidelity to the written score.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City):
    From 1928 to 1936, Toscanini was music director of the philharmonic of this city, a position also held by Pierre Boulez and Zubin Mehta. The orchestra plays in this city's Lincoln Center.
  Part 3 (ans: Wilhelm Furtwangler):
    Toscanini's stylistic opposite and artistic rival was said to be this principal conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic from 1922 to 1945, known for his broad and highly flexible tempi.

[B16] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The singer of this aria pretends that her shoe is paining her to send her rich lover, Alcindoro, away. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Musetta's Waltz" [or "Quando me'n vo'"]):
    Name this aria in 3/4 time, whose singer tries to attract Marcello by boasting that "When I walk alone in the street, people stop and stare at me, and everyone stares at my beauty." It is sung at a cafe in the Latin Quarter.
  Part 2 (ans: La Boheme):
    Musetta sings her waltz in this Giacomo Puccini opera. At the end of this opera, the poet Rodolfo bemoans Mimi's death from tuberculosis.
  Part 3 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    This Italian conducted at the premiere of La Boheme. He also conducted the premiere of Adagio for Strings as the music director of the NBC Symphony Orchestra.

[B17] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about mock executions, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Memoirs from The House of the Dead):
    Dostoevsky's experiences with the intellectual Petrashevsky Circle, including being subject to a mock execution, are recounted in this novel about Goryanchikov's experience in a Siberian prison camp.
  Part 2 (ans: Tosca):
    The title character believes her lover Mario Cavaradossi will merely be subject to a mock execution in this opera by Puccini.
  Part 3 (ans: bombing of the USS Cole):
    CIA interrogators used a pistol and a power drill in a mock execution while interrogating Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, a terrorist who planned this operation and the similar Limburg bombing with Jamal al-Badawi.
