=== STOCK CLUES: Rachel Whiteread ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rachel Whiteread
  - This artist complained that the story of their juvenile work restoring coffins in Highgate cemetery had been over interpreted.
  - One work by this artist was created in 193 Grove Road in Mile End.
  - Pre-empting a modern interior design trend, this artist created a library of titleless books in their design for the Judenplatz Holocaust Memorial in Vienna.
  - This artist's Untitled Monument was a resin copy of the fourth plinth on top of which it was placed, and they described the process of "mummifying the air inside a room" in trying to gain funding for the work Ghost.
  - Known for creating sculptures from mouldings of negative space, for 10 points, name this first female winner of the Turner Prize. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Thomas Heatherwick's Vessel is a honeycomb-like structure in New York's Hudson Yards Public Square with 154 of these architectural elements. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: stairs [or staircases; prompt on steps]):
    Name these architectural elements. The "Penrose" type of these things is shown in a paradoxical lithograph by M. C. Escher in which identically dressed men walk in opposite directions on one of these things.
  Part 2 (ans: Olafur Eliasson [accept either name]):
    This Icelandic-Danish artist's Umschreibung("um-sh'RYE-bung") is a staircase in the form of a looping double helix. This artist of The Weather Project also placed waterfalls at four New York City locations, including under the Brooklyn Bridge.
  Part 3 (ans: Rachel Whiteread):
    This artist's plaster sculpture Untitled (Stairs) was created by casting the space above a stairwell. This artist's Fourth plinth sculpture Untitled Monument was an inverted resin cast of the plinth itself.

[B2] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about installation art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Rachel Whiteread):
    This artist, the first female winner of the Turner Prize, filled the Tate Modern's Turbine Hall full of mountains of white, polyethylene boxes in Embankment. She cast an entire Victorian house in concrete in her work House.
  Part 2 (ans: Ai Weiwei):
    This conceptual artist covered a floorspace in the Tate Modern with porcelain seeds in Sunflower Seeds. His series of birdcage-like fence structures, Good Fences Make Good Neighbors, were scattered around New York City from October 2017 to February 2018.
  Part 3 (ans: The Guggenheim (New York) [or Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum]):
    In 1971, Daniel Buren hung a gigantic blue-and-white-striped banner called Peinture-Sculpture down the center of this museum's spiral interior. Frank Gehry designed this museum on Manhattan's Upper East Side.
