=== STOCK CLUES: Allen Tate ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Tate [accept Allen Tate or James Tate]
  - In a poem by an author with this surname, Dr.
  - Bluespire performs the title task by whispering "you look like a god sitting there. / Why don't you try writing something?" That poet with this surname wrote "your face didn't rot like the others" in a poem about his 22-year-old father's death in World War II.
  - The poet of "Teaching the Ape to Write Poems" and "The Lost Pilot" shares this surname with a poet who commanded "Leave now / The shut gate and the decomposing wall: / The gentle serpent, green in the mulberry bush" in a poem that repeatedly describes flying leaves.
  - That poem by an author with this last name begins "Row after row with strict impunity / The headstones yield their names to the element." For 10 points, give this surname of Allen, the author of "Ode to the Confederate Dead." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A cemetery for soldiers in this conflict is described as "half-open...to God's deliberate eye" in the poem "Elegy for the Native Guards." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: American Civil War):
    Name this conflict. A memorial honoring an all-black infantry in this conflict is the subject of Robert Lowell's poem "For the Union Dead."
  Part 2 (ans: Natasha Trethewey):
    "Elegy for the Native Guards" appears in this Mississippi-born poet's collection Native Guard. This woman served as U.S. Poet Laureate from 2012 to 2014.
  Part 3 (ans: Allen Tate [or John Orley Allen Tate]):
    Trethewey contextualized "Elegy for the Native Guards" as a response to a poem by this author that begins, "Row after row with strict impunity," titled "Ode to the Confederate Dead."

[B2] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about poets who wrote about the American Civil War.
  Part 1 (ans: Allen Tate):
    This Southern Agrarian poet and co-author of the manifesto I'll Take My Stand used a recurring image of leaves swirling in a cemetery in his "Ode to the Confederate Dead."
  Part 2 (ans: Boston, Massachusetts):
    Robert Lowell's poem "For the Union Dead" begins at an aquarium in this city and focuses on a statue of Robert Gould Shaw in this city. A Robert Frost collection is titled North of this city.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Timrod):
    This "Poet Laureate of the Confederacy" compared "Dark Sumpter" to a "battlemented cloud" in "Charleston." This poet also wrote an ode that was sung at a grave decoration at Magnolia Cemetery in Charleston, South Carolina.

[B3] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A "creative impulse" like "the electric fire from the clouds" is generated when the "people's poet" Hideho Jones plays at the Zulu Club in a book-length poem by this author whose twenty-four sections are each titled for a letter of the Greek alphabet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Melvin B. Tolson [or Melvin Beaunorus Tolson]):
    Identify this black modernist poet of the posthumously-published collection A Gallery of Harlem Portraits, an examination of black lives patterned after the Spoon River Anthology.
  Part 2 (ans: America):
    In a poem titled for a "Rendezvous with" this place, Tolson called it an "international river with a legion of tributaries!" Langston Hughes called himself the "darker brother" who is sent to eat in the kitchen in a poem bookended by the phrase: "I, too, sing [this place]."
  Part 3 (ans: (John Orley) Allen Tate (The poem is "Ode to the Confederate Dead.")):
    This racist poet called Tolson the first black author to assimilate the "language of the Anglo-American tradition," and once canceled a reception for Hughes so that he wouldn't have to socialize with him. His best-known poem repeats the image of "flying" leaves that "plunge and expire."

[B4] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author defended the role of traditional religion as a grounding of literature in the essay "The Fallacy of Humanism." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Allen Tate (the poem is "Ode to the Confederate Dead")):
    Name this reactionary poet, who opened another poem by describing a grave arrayed "Row after row with strict impunity."
  Part 2 (ans: Stephen Crane):
    This poet of The Black Riders and Other Lines wrote about the Civil War in his most famous novel, The Red Badge of Courage.
  Part 3 (ans: Stephen Vincent Benet):
    A poem on a Civil War theme by this other author describes the body of a man who "had no gift for life" but who "knew how to die." This author wrote "Bury my heart at Wounded Knee" in "American Names."

[B5] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "The old South Boston Aquarium stands / in a Sahara of snow now. Its broken windows are boarded." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    These lines open the title poem of For the Union Dead, a 1964 collection by what American poet?
  Part 2 (ans: Allen Tate):
    The title of Lowell's poem evokes the 1928 "Ode to the Confederate Dead" by this southern poet, who also wrote biographies of Stonewall Jackson and Jefferson Davis.
  Part 3 (ans: "Jonathan Edwards in Western Massachusetts"):
    This other poem in Lowell's For the Union Dead discusses the legacy of a Great Awakening preacher in the inland portion of Lowell's home state, where he "thought the world would end."

[B6] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Civil War literature written from the perspective of Southerners, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: [John Orley] Allen Tate):
    This Modernist writer, in his essay Narcissus as Narcissus, explained the significance of the "inexhaustible bodies that are not / Dead, but feed the grass" in his poem "Ode to the Confederate Dead."
  Part 2 (ans: Gone with the Wind ):
    A line from Dowson's "Cynara" provided the title for this Margaret Mitchell novel, the love story between Rhett Butler and Scarlett O'Hara, set during Sherman's campaign in Georgia.
  Part 3 (ans: Tiger-Lilies):
    This only novel by Sidney Lanier was inspired by his own experiences as a soldier in the war. In it, the Sterling family gathers a bunch of young men in their estate for a deer hunt just before the war breaks out.
