=== STOCK CLUES: Pirandello ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 50 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi Pirandello
  - The title character of a novel by this author complains about Copernicus to the librarian who encourages him to write his story, Don Eligio.
  - In a play by this author, a girl dressed in all white and a black sash clings to a woman whose "wax-like" face is covered by a widow's veil.
  - While caring for his wife, this author wrote a novel in which a character uses his winnings from Monte Carlo to pose as Adriano Meis after he is declared dead.
  - In a play by this author of The Late Mattia Pascal, a man flirts with his former step-daughter in Madame Pace's  brothel.
  - At the end of a play by this author, the deaths of the Child and the Boy lead the Stage Manager to complain, "I've lost a whole day over these people." For 10 points, name this Italian playwright of Six Characters in Search of an Author. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi [accept Luigi Pirandello; accept Luigi Chiarelli; accept Luigi Jannuzzi]
  - Two characters contemplate suicide while sitting next to an abyss in a one-act absurdist comedy by a playwright with this first name entitled A Bench At The Edge. [PWR]
  - In a play by an author with this first name, the adulterous Savina is forced to flee her house by her husband, who claims to have killed her. [PWR]
  - The title character of a play by an author with this first name relates his situation to a sleeping Irish priest being touched on the neck by a flower after learning that his four "private counselors," such as Lolo and Momo, have betrayed him. [PWR]
  - An author with this first name wrote The Mask and the Face, the first play in the "Theatre of the Grotesque" genre.
  - In a play by an author with this first name, one character remembers (*) Matilda's dark hair due to a portrait of her dressed as a famous countess in his "throne room." In that play by an author with this first name, the title character stabs Tito Belcredi after a doctor attempts to "cure" him of his belief that he is the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the Italian playwrights Chiarelli and Pirandello. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi Pirandello
  - A play by this author opens with peasant girls singing hymns and shelling almonds before the jolly title character enters with his three boys mothered by three different women. [PWR]
  - A family created by this author gossips about a mother who is only allowed to visit her daughter by shouting up to her on a balcony five stories above. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about a rake in his rural comedy Liola, the first play in his collection (*) Naked Masks. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, Lady Frola and Mr.
  - Ponza both accuse each other of insanity when they give conflicting accounts of the identity of Ponza's second wife.
  - A metatheatrical play by this author features characters like The Stepdaughter and The Father interrupting a rehearsal of Mixing It Up.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian playwright who wrote Right You Are (If You Think So) and Six Characters in Search of an Author. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Rules of the Game [or Mixing it Up; or Il giuoco delle parti; or the Pirandello play from Six Characters in Search of an Author; prompt on Six Characters in Search of an Author or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]
  - At the end of this play, a doctor ignores a woman asking if her lover is alive while gathering surgical instruments off of a breakfast table. [PWR]
  - A woman in this play delivers a monologue about catching an egg that falls out of the sky and sucking out its yolk, then flirtatiously tosses around an eggshell with her lover. [PWR]
  - This play's second act is set in an apartment tended by a servant nicknamed Socrates, which a later production changed to a garden with a partly-visible fountain basin.
  - In this play, (*) Silia Gala has an affair with Guido Venanzi, prompting her husband Leone to trick Guido into taking his place in a duel.
  - The Leading Man complains about wearing a chef's hat during a production of this play, whose derailment prompts the exclamation "I've lost a whole day over these people, a whole day!" A troupe including two mute characters called The Child and The Boy interrupts a rehearsal of, for 10 points, what real Luigi Pirandello play that is staged in his best-known drama? [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi Pirandello (The first play is Tonight We Improvise.)
  - This author's muse Marta Abba adapted a play by this author in which an aviation officer leaves his wife, causing her to die while singing opera.
  - In that play by this author, Doctor Hinkfuss fails to provide a script.
  - This author set another play in the apartment of a councilman who investigates an employee's claims that he is protective of his second wife because she is believed to be the daughter of Lady Frola.
  - This author of Right You Are (If You Think You Are) created the Director, who is furious when a rehearsal of this author's play "Mixing it Up" is interrupted by a group including the Father, the Boy, and the Stepdaughter.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian author of Six Characters in Search of an Author. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi Pirandello
  - In a work by this author, a woman who remembers a time when she had "plaits over her shoulders" is accused of closing her eyes and commanding "Blind yourself" whenever she is held. [PWR]
  - In one of this author's plays, a woman claims that she is a daughter and a second wife, but nobody to herself.
  - Earlier in that play, an investigator looks in the mirror and asks, "Who is insane among us?" This author described Laudisi's attempts to discover whether Ponza or Signora Frola was telling the truth in (*) Right You Are, If You Think You Are. [PWR]
  - He wrote a play in which the hanging of coats summons Madame Pace, who hires the Step-daughter as a prostitute before the Child drowns in a fountain.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian author who wrote about the title family demanding roles from the Stage-Manager in Six Characters in Search of an Author. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi Pirandello
  - The protagonist of a novel by this author hectors people with the line "Let's reason about this!" while trying to talk up a plan involving marrying his daughter first to a rich older man, then to her poor admirer. [PWR]
  - In a play by this man set on Christmas Eve, a man who has missed a train converses with a man who is dying of a facial epithelioma. [PWR]
  - This author of The Turn created a character who starts wearing sunglasses and adopts the name "Adriano Meis" after winning a small fortune at Monte Carlo and learning that he has been (*) declared dead. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author of The Man With the Flower in His Mouth, coats and hats being hung on a rack attracts Madame Pace to the stage.
  - That play by this author ends with the Boy shooting himself and the Little Girl drowning in a fountain, furthering the consternation of the Stage Manager.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Late Mattia Pascal and Six Characters in Search of an Author. [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi Pirandello
  - In one play by this author, a character admits that he missed the moment when his mother died because he was watching a fly swim in a glass of water.
  - In one play by him, one character is summoned to the stage by actresses hanging up their hats and mantles on clothes-pegs.
  - This author wrote a play in which a child shoots himself behind a tree when a baby is discovered drowned in a fountain.
  - In one play by him, Francesco and Doro nearly duel over their differing interpretations of the love affairs of Delia Morello.
  - The Step-Daughter is discovered at Madame Pace's establishment in a play by him in which a rehearsal of "Mixing It Up" is interrupted when the Father begs the Manager to let his family tell their story on the stage.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian playwright of Each in His Own Way and Six Characters in Search of an Author. [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Luigi Pirandello
  - One character created by his man disdains people who go for medical degrees instead of degrees in law and is stabbed to death after trying to free Frida.
  - In another of his plays, several women hang up their coats and hats after a confrontation at revolver-point breaks out over a child's death in a fountain.
  - This author wrote about four valets who are instructed by Count di Nolli to serve their master for eleven years in one play, in which a masquerade is the site of that master's fall from horseback.
  - Madame Pace runs a brothel where the Step-Daughter works in one of his plays, in which a motley crew rehearses Mixing It Up.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote about a madman believing himself to be an emperor in Henry IV, as well as Six Characters in Search of an Author. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play chides his servants for not living in a dream of history, and thereby "torturing themselves in ceaseless anxiety to know how their fates and fortunes will work out." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry IV [or Enrico IV]):
    Name this play, whose title character is sent to inhabit an 11th century villa after falling and hurting his head during a costume pageant.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This author wrote about the distinction between fiction and reality in plays like Henry IV and Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: pictures [or portraits; or paintings; prompt on artworks]):
    The doctor plots to shock Henry out of his madness by replacing two of these things, the only two modern objects visible in the villa.

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The opening directions of this play relate that the curtain is to be open as the theater is filled, and is to be left up between the first and second acts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]):
    Name this play, in which a man angrily says "He goes and lets it down in earnest" to explain the curtain accidentally falling in a scene set at a fashion house that doubles as a brothel.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    The use of the curtain is a metatheatrical technique employed by this Italian playwright of Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: the Prompter [or suggeritore]):
    Referring to a rehearsal of Mixing it Up, this character reads out of a book, "When the curtain rises, Leo Gala... is busy beating an egg in a cup." Later, the manager asks this character to write down the story of the six characters in shorthand.

[B3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's central character is visited by a woman whose portrait from twenty years ago hangs on the wall, and a man whom he mistakes for Peter Damian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry IV [or Enrico IV]):
    Name this play, about a nobleman whose house is turned into an impression of a residence at Goslar ("GOZ-lahr") after he falls off a horse and starts believing himself to be a Holy Roman Emperor.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Henry IV was written by this Italian Nobel laureate who wrote of a father who propositions his stepdaughter at Madame Pace's ("PAH-cheh") shop in Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: The Man with a Flower in his Mouth [or L'Uomo dal Fiore in Bocca]):
    This play by Pirandello is a one-act dialogue between a businessman who has missed his train and a character dying of an epithelioma. A 1930 production of this play was the first piece of television drama produced by the BBC.

[B4] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, a character says that "they're all actors. The real ones sit tight and don't say a word" after actors in the audience speak up to reveal that they're police spies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Accidental Death of an Anarchist [or Morte accidentale di un anarchico]):
    Name this play, where the Maniac claims to suffer from "histrionomania," which causes him to impersonate a judge, a disabled forensics expert, and a bishop.
  Part 2 (ans: Commedia dell'arte [koh-may-dee-ah dell-ar-tay] [or comedy of the profession; prompt on comedy or commedia]):
    After Dario Fo was appointed as the Professor of Drama at the University of Rome, he ran a seminar on Harlequin and this form of improvisational theater. This form's other characters include Pantalones and Pierrot.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Dario Fo won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1997, becoming the first Italian to win it since this author of Six Characters in Search of an Author.

[B5] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one play, other characters repeatedly insist that this character was "seized by a raptus." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the anarchist from Accidental Death of an Anarchist):
    Name this unseen character inspired by Giuseppe Pinelli. In a play titled for this character, a [emphasize] different man puts on a wooden leg and accidentally swallows his glass eye while impersonating a judge and making a recording.
  Part 2 (ans: Dario Fo):
    The Maniac interrogates the Superintendent about the title character's suspicious death in this Italian playwright's 1970 play Accidental Death of an Anarchist.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Dario Fo received the Nobel Prize in Literature for his plays, much like this earlier Italian playwright of Henry IV and Six Characters in Search of an Author.

[B6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this play spitefully starts a rumor that the other has gone mad, after he insults her beloved, the secretary Molachin ("Mall-uh-kin"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Woe from Wit [or Gore ot Uma; or The Mischief of Being Clever; or The Woes of Wit; or Wit Works Woe]):
    Name this verse comedy in which Chatsky returns to Moscow and discovers that his old sweetheart, Sofia Pavlovna, has fallen in love with Molachin.
  Part 2 (ans: falling off a horse [or horse-riding accident; accept equivalents for "falling"]):
    In Woe from Wit, Sofia Pavlovna faints after watching from the window as Molachin breaks his arm in one of these mishaps. In an Italian play, a nobleman supposedly suffers from delusions that he is Henry IV after one of these mishaps.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    That Italian play, Henry IV, is by this playwright who also wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.

[B7] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In an 1850 essay on this genre, its author argues that it can only represent poetic truth and claims it combines fantasy and documentation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: historical fiction [or historical novels]):
    Name this literary genre in which the fictional plot is set in the real-life past. Examples of this broad genre include Sir Walter Scott's Ivanhoe and Victor Hugo's Les Miserables.
  Part 2 (ans: The Betrothed [or I promessi sposi] (by Alessandro Manzoni)):
    Despite his criticisms of the genre, the author of "On the Historical Novel" is most famous for this historical novel in which the lower-class weavers Renzo and Lucia attempt to marry despite the interference of Don Rodrigo.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Pirandello (The novel is The Late Mattia Pascal.)):
    This author's essay "On Humor" examined the comic relief Don Abbondio provides in The Betrothed. The title man of a novel by this author assumes a new name after his sneaking off to Monte Carlo results in his family identifying another corpse as his.

[B8] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character created by this author develops a taste for "playing the madman" after twenty years of royal pageantry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Name this playwright who wrote about an aristocrat who deludedly believes himself to be the king of Germany in Henry IV. This Italian playwright wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 2 (ans: Ubu Roi [or Ubu the King or King Ubu or King Turd] (by Alfred Jarry)):
    In this absurdist play by a different writer, a cowardly king swears "by my green candle." This play "for actors pretending to be puppets" ends with the title character fleeing to France to escape Bougrelas and the Tsar's army.
  Part 3 (ans: Berenger [accept King Berenger I] (The unnamed play is Rhinoceros by Eugene Ionesco.)):
    This character appears as a four-hundred-year-old monarch who struggles with his impending death in the play Exit the King. Another play ends with this character shouting, "I'm not capitulating!"

[B9] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about European authors who wrote about amnesiacs, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: J. M. G. Le Clezio [or Jean-Marie Gustave Le Clezio]):
    This author memorably depicted the amnesia of Adam Pollo, who cannot remember whether he has deserted the army or escaped from a psychiatric ward while in a seaside town, in his novel The Interrogation. He also wrote Fish of Gold.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This author created an amnesiac aristocrat who falls off his horse and believes himself to be a Holy Roman Emperor in the play Enrico IV. This Italian playwright also wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco (The unnamed novel is Foucault's Pendulum.)):
    Yambo loses his memories after a stroke in this author's novel The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana. In another novel by this author, the computer Abulafia suggests that the Knights Templar are using "telluric currents."

[B10] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character tells a man with this job, "You are reason and your wife is instinct," after he complains about wearing a chef's hat in a play that has "nine or ten" people with this job in "bright cheerful clothes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: actors [or actresses; accept leading lady or leading man; prompt on theatre]):
    Name this profession. At the beginning of a play, a woman with this profession arrives late "dressed in white from head to foot, with... a charming lapdog in her arms."
  Part 2 (ans: the six characters [accept Six Characters in Search of an Author or Sei personaggi or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore; prompt on characters]):
    The actors encounter this group of people, one of whom claims to be possessed by a "Demon of Experiment." These people laugh at the actors for their flawed imitation of them.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This Italian playwright of a "theatre in the theatre" trilogy wrote Six Characters In Search of an Author.

[B11] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character suddenly bursts out into a performance of the cabaret number, singing "Prenez garde a Tchou-Tchin-Tchou" (pruh-NAY gard ah choo-chin-choo). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Stepdaughter):
    Name this character who refuses a gift of a hat from a man in Madame Pace's shop because she is in mourning. This character then chastises him for saying "Let's take off this little frock" rather than "I understand."
  Part 2 (ans: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]):
    The Stepdaughter's scene in Madame Pace's shop occurs in this 1921 play.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This absurdist Italian playwright wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author and Enrico IV.

[B12] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, after a man complains about having to wear a "cook's cap," a character responds by saying that it's not his fault that France doesn't send him any good comedies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]):
    Name this play in which a performance of Mixing it Up is interrupted by the title characters. It ends with the Manager exclaiming "I've lost a whole day over these people" after a wounded boy is carried offstage.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Six Characters in Search of an Author was written by this Italian playwright who wrote about an aristocrat who falls off his horse and believes himself to be the title Holy Roman Emperor in Henry IV.
  Part 3 (ans: Tonight We Improvise [or Questa sera si recita a soggetto]):
    Pirandello also wrote this play about Doctor Hinkfuss' attempts to get actors to perform the title action as part of a staging of the novella Leonora, Addio!. At its end, Hinkfuss apologizes to the audience.

[B13] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, two athletic male sister-nurses accompany an attractive woman afflicted with sleeping sickness, who wards off the advances of Duperret. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marat/Sade [or The Persecution and Assassination of Jean-Paul Marat as Performed by the Inmates of the Asylum of Charenton Under the Direction of the Marquis de Sade; or Die Verfolgung und Ermordung Jean Paul Marats dargestellt durch die Schauspielgruppe des Hospizes zu Charenton unter Anleitung des Herrn de Sade]):
    Name this play, set in the Charenton asylum, in which a play about a pivotal moment in the French Revolution is staged as therapy for the inmates. It was written by Peter Weiss.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    The Little Girl drowns in a fountain and The Boy shoots himself with a revolver, as they attempt to stage the play Mixing It Up in this Italian dramatist's Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Deathtrap):
    In this play by Ira Levin, Sidney Bruhl successfully induces a fatal heart attack in his wife Myra by staging the death of his student Clifford Anderson to obtain the script of the title play, which, as it turns out, is based on the plot to kill Myra.

[B14] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's rehearsal is stopped by a man who says "life is full of infinite absurdities, which, strangely enough, do not even need to appear plausible, because they are true." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mixing it Up [accept The Rules of the Game; or Il Giuoco delle Parti]):
    Name this play, whose designated lead actor complains about having to wear a cook's cap. Its frustrated rehearsal prompts the exclamation "I've lost a whole day over these people!"
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This Italian dramatist wrote Mixing It Up, as well as a play in which several ordinary citizens interrupt its rehearsal, titled Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry [or Enrico; accept Henry IV or Enrico IV]):
    In another Pirandello play, a nobleman starts believing he is an 11th century king with this name after falling off his horse.

[B15] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In the 1950s and '60s, this playwright frequently starred in his own plays alongside his wife Franca Rame. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dario Fo):
    Name this Italian playwright, who wrote about a clever Maniac's impersonation of a judge in his Accidental Death of An Anarchist.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This earlier Italian playwright created an actor whose fall from a horse leads him to believe he's Henry IV. He also wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Each In His Own Way):
    Six Characters in Search of an Author, Tonight We Improvise, and this third play make up Pirandello's "theatre in the theatre" trilogy. It opens with a conversation between Delia Morello and Francesco Savio.

[B16] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character says she is a two-months orphan, then performs a sing-and-dance routine of Prenez garde a Tchou-Tchin-Tchou. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Step-Daughter [do not accept or prompt on "Daughter"]):
    Name this hammy character who has a super-awkward encounter within the backroom of Madame Pace's [PAH-cheh's]dress shop.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    The Step-Daughter and the Father are among this Italian playwright's Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: the curtain falling [or equivalents; prompt on intermission]):
    An argument between the Mother, the Step-Daughter, and the Father over the brothel scene prompts the Manager to repeatedly ask for this process to occur.

[B17] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character, who claims to embody a so-called "Demon of Experiment", is accused of offering a hundred lire in a "pale blue envelope" to a child of his wife and his clerk. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Father):
    Identify this character, who hangs up hats and cloaks in order to summon Madame Pace and is accused by the Stepdaughter of trying to sleep with her, in a 1921 play.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    The Father leads a group who interrupt a rehearsal of Mixing it Up and request that their story be told in Six Characters in Search of an Author, a play by this Italian absurdist.
  Part 3 (ans: Tonight We Improvise [or Questa sera si recita a soggetto]):
    Six Characters, Each in His Own Way, and this other play make up Pirandello's trilogy of metatheater. In this play, a group of actors directed by Doctor Hinkfuss attempt to put on a production of Pirandello's Leonora, Addio!

[B18] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One novel set in this region tells of the troubles that beset a family when an investment in a cargo of lupins is destroyed by a storm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sicily [or Regione Siciliana; anti-prompt on "Catania"]):
    Name this region. In another novel set here, the last prince of a noble family weds his nephew to Angelica, the daughter of a rich bourgeois mayor, of the new regime.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This Sicilian author liked to challenge the nature of truth in such plays as Each in his Own Way and Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: The Late Mattia Pascal):
    In this novel by Pirandello, the title character must decide whether or not to start a new life when his wife and mother-in-law mistake another man's corpse for his own and therefore believe him dead.

[B19] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Public awareness of this organization was raised in the 1960s and 70s by Leonardo Sciascia's novels Equal Danger and The Day of the Owl. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sicilian Mafia [or Cosa Nostra]):
    Name this criminal syndicate which murders Astorre's adopted father Aprile in Omerta, the final book in a trilogy by Mario Puzo.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Carmelo Verga):
    One of the earliest literary portrayals of the Sicilian Mafia was "The Gold Key," a story by this writer who is also known for a novel about Padron Ntoni and his family, including Bastianazzo, who dies in a shipwreck.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This author wrote about Mafia thievery of cattle in "The Dissolution of the League" and wrote a play in which Count de Nolli pays actors to pretend to be court subjects of his uncle, who thinks he's a Holy Roman Emperor.

[B20] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Tito Belcredi is attacked in this play by the protagonist, who believes him to be Peter Damian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Enrico IV [or Henry IV]):
    Name this play, in which a man hits himself on the head after falling off of a horse during a pageant and believes himself to be the title Holy Roman Emperor.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Enrico IV is a play by this Italian playwright, who created the Absurdist play Six Characters in Search of An Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Ugo Betti):
    This Italian playwright and judge found success with Corruption in the Palace of Justice and The Fugitive.

[B21] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is last seen complaining that he has "lost a whole day over these people." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the director in Six Characters in Search of an Author [or the stage manager]):
    Identify this character who is first seen complaining about the lack of good French comedies and mocking Mixing It Up before he is confronted by a father, mother, step-daughter, son, and child.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    The director appears in this absurdist Italian author's play Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Mattia Pascal [or Mattia Pascal]):
    This other Pirandello character starts a new life after erroneously being declared dead. He eventually abandons that identity by faking his death, only to be unable to return to his old life.

[B22] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Characters in this play are forced to put on an absurd comedy because no good ones come from France anymore. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]):
    Name this play that opens with a rehearsal of The Rules of the Game interrupted by a family's entrance. At the end of this play, actors debate whether a character's suicide following a girl drowning in a fountain is real or fake.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Six Characters in Search of an Author was written by this Italian author of Right You Are (If You Think You Are) and Tonight We Improvise.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugenio Montale):
    This other Italian Nobel winner was a frequent contributor to the Corriere della Sera, and published poetry collections like The Storm and Cuttlefish Bones.

[B23] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one of this author's plays, Eugene Ribadier hypnotizes his jealous wife so he can cheat on her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Feydeau):
    Name this author of farces such as The Lady from Maxim's and A Flea in Her Ear.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Feydeau was a precursor to the Theatre of the Absurd, much like this playwright of Tonight We Improvise and Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Marquis de Sade):
    Peter Weiss wrote an absurdist play named after Jean-Paul Marat and this dude, who wrote Juliette and a book made into a movie by Pier Paolo Pasolini.

[B24] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This play opens with a group of men hired by Count Charles Di Nolli impersonating the participants of the debate at Canossa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry IV [or Enrico IV]):
    Identify this play whose title figure is a man who has struck his head upon falling from a horse and become convinced that he is the title Holy Roman Emperor.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Henry IV is a play by this Italian playwright of Six Characters In Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: The Old and the Young [or I Vecchi e i Giovani]):
    This historical novel by Pirandello is set in Sicily following the Garibaldi uprising of 1860 and concern the political machinations of men like Flaminio Salvo, Gerlando Laurentano, and Capolino.

[B25] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this play expresses disappointment at the idea of having to put on a cook's cap and beat eggs, causing his boss to fly into a rage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei personaggi in cerca d'autore]):
    Name this play in which a father, mother, son, step-daughter, boy, and girl interrupt a rehearsal of the play Mixing It Up.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This Italian Nobel Laureate and author of Right You Are (If You Think You Are) and Henry IV wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author
  Part 3 (ans: Tonight We Improvise [or Questa sera si recita a soggetto]):
    This thematically similar play by Pirandello is about a company of actors led by Doctor Hinkfuss who puts on a play about Signora Ignazia and her four daughters Mommina, Totina, Dorina, and Nene.
