Carthage	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Phoenician-founded North African city-state that fought Rome in three Punic Wars; destroyed in 146 BCE.
Germany	Modern Europe & the World Wars	Central European nation unified in 1871; central belligerent in both twentieth-century World Wars.
New Zealand	Oceania & the Pacific	South Pacific nation settled by Maori voyagers, later a British colony under the Treaty of Waitangi.
Australia	Oceania & the Pacific	Island continent colonized by Britain from 1788 as penal settlements; home to Aboriginal peoples.
Canada	Canada & Northern North America	British North American dominion formed by the 1867 confederation of former French and British colonies.
France	Modern Europe & the World Wars	Western European nation, major WWI belligerent alongside Britain and Russia against Germany.
Hittites	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Bronze Age Anatolian empire, early adopters of iron and chariot warfare; rivaled Egypt at Kadesh.
Maori	Oceania & the Pacific	Indigenous Polynesian people of New Zealand who signed the Treaty of Waitangi with the British Crown in 1840.
jade	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Prized green stone carved for ritual objects in ancient China and Mesoamerica alike.
maps	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Cartographic documents; common-link topic spanning ancient geography like Ptolemy's work to the Age of Exploration.
Nineveh	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Capital of the Assyrian Empire under Sennacherib; site of Ashurbanipal's famed library.
Sparta	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Militaristic Greek city-state ruled by dual kings, dependent on helot labor; led the Peloponnesian League.
Teotihuacan	Pre-Columbian & Latin American History	Massive pre-Aztec Mesoamerican city near the Pyramid of the Sun, of uncertain founding people.
Ur	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Sumerian city-state in Mesopotamia, traditional birthplace of Abraham, noted for its great ziggurat.
Ashoka the Great	South & Southeast Asia	Mauryan emperor of India who embraced Buddhism after the Kalinga war and issued rock edicts.
Babylon	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Mesopotamian city on the Euphrates, capital under Hammurabi and Nebuchadnezzar II; legendary Hanging Gardens.
coins	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Metal currency; common-link topic from Lydian invention through Roman and Chinese minting traditions.
cuneiform	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Wedge-shaped writing on clay tablets invented by the Sumerians, later used for Akkadian and Persian.
Egypt	Ancient Egypt & the Nile	Nile River civilization ruled by pharaohs for three millennia, famed for pyramids and mummification.
helots	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Enslaved serf class in Sparta, mostly conquered Messenians, who worked the land for Spartan citizens.
Indus River	South & Southeast Asia	Major South Asian river that gave its name to the Bronze Age Indus Valley Civilization.
iron	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Metal whose smelting ended the Bronze Age; associated with Hittite technology and the Iron Age.
Olmecs	Pre-Columbian & Latin American History	Earliest major Mesoamerican civilization, known for colossal stone heads; predecessors of the Maya and Aztecs.
Pliny the Elder	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Roman naturalist, author of Natural History, who died observing the eruption of Vesuvius in 79 CE.
South Africa	Sub-Saharan & African History	Southern African nation, site of Boer republics and apartheid before the Union formed in 1910.
Sri Lanka	South & Southeast Asia	Island nation off India, formerly Ceylon, a center of Theravada Buddhism and ancient irrigation kingdoms.
Thrace	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Region north of the Aegean inhabited by Thracians, later a Roman province and birthplace of Spartacus.
tin	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Metal alloyed with copper to make bronze; its scarcity drove long-distance Bronze Age trade.
Turkey	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Modern nation spanning Anatolia, successor to the Ottoman Empire, bridging Europe and Asia.
World War I	Modern Europe & the World Wars	1914-1918 global conflict triggered by the assassination of Franz Ferdinand; ended the Ottoman and Russian empires.
Alexandria	Ancient Egypt & the Nile	Egyptian port city founded by Alexander the Great, home to its famed ancient Library and Lighthouse.
chariots	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Wheeled horse-drawn vehicles central to Bronze Age warfare among Hittites, Egyptians, and Mycenaeans.
Clovis culture	Pre-Columbian & Latin American History	Prehistoric Paleo-Indian culture identified by distinctive fluted stone points found across the Americas.
coffee	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Stimulant crop originating in Ethiopia, later cultivated across Arabia, Latin America, and colonial Southeast Asia.
Cyrus the Great	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Founder of the Achaemenid Persian Empire who conquered Babylon and freed the Jews from exile.
Guano	Pre-Columbian & Latin American History	Seabird excrement mined as fertilizer off Peru and Chile, sparking 19th-century Pacific wars over deposits.
Hatshepsut	Ancient Egypt & the Nile	Female pharaoh of the 18th Dynasty who ruled as king and sponsored an expedition to Punt.
Ireland	Modern Europe & the World Wars	Island nation that gained independence from Britain in 1922 after centuries of British rule.
Japan	East Asia	Island nation with an imperial dynasty that industrialized rapidly in the Meiji era and fought in both World Wars.
microhistory	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Historiographical method examining a small-scale subject, like a village or trial, to illuminate broader trends.
Nigeria	Sub-Saharan & African History	West African nation home to Yoruba, Igbo, and Hausa peoples; former British colony, independent in 1960.
Solon	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Athenian lawgiver who reformed debt bondage and laid groundwork for Athenian democracy in the 6th century BCE.
Treaty of Waitangi	Oceania & the Pacific	1840 agreement between the British Crown and Maori chiefs establishing British sovereignty over New Zealand.
water	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Common-link theme covering irrigation, aqueducts, and maritime trade routes across civilizations.
1980s	Modern Europe & the World Wars	Decade of Cold War tension, the Falklands War, and the start of Deng Xiaoping's market reforms in China.
Abydos	Ancient Egypt & the Nile	Ancient Egyptian religious center sacred to Osiris, site of early royal tombs and Seti I's temple.
Afghanistan	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Central Asian nation on the Silk Road, crossed by Alexander the Great and fought over by great powers.
Alexander the Great	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Macedonian king who conquered the Persian Empire and reached India, founding numerous cities named Alexandria.
Bantu	Sub-Saharan & African History	Sub-Saharan language family and migration of peoples that spread agriculture and ironworking across Africa.
Blackbeard	Pre-Columbian & Latin American History	English pirate Edward Teach, active in the Caribbean and American colonies, killed off North Carolina in 1718.
Boudica	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Icenian queen who led a revolt against Roman rule in Britain around 60-61 CE, burning Londinium.
bronze	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Alloy of copper and tin that defined the Bronze Age across the Near East, Mediterranean, and China.
camels	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Domesticated pack animals central to trans-Saharan and Silk Road caravan trade.
China	East Asia	East Asian civilization with continuous dynastic history from Shang through Qing, source of silk and Confucianism.
copper	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Early-smelted metal, alloyed with tin for bronze, mined across Cyprus and the ancient Near East.
Corinth	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Wealthy Greek city-state on the isthmus linking mainland Greece to the Peloponnese, destroyed by Rome in 146 BCE.
Darius I	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Achaemenid Persian king who expanded the empire, built Persepolis, and was defeated at Marathon.
gold	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Precious metal driving ancient trade routes and colonial ventures, from Nubia's mines to the Spanish conquest of the Americas.
Hadrian	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Roman emperor who built Hadrian's Wall in Britain and consolidated the empire's frontiers rather than expanding.
Halicarnassus	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Anatolian Greek city, birthplace of Herodotus, site of the Mausoleum, one of the Seven Wonders.
Herodotus	Ancient Greece & the Aegean	Greek historian called the "Father of History," author of The Histories on the Greco-Persian Wars.
Hispania	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Roman name for the Iberian Peninsula, contested in the Punic Wars and later fully annexed by Rome.
Madagascar	Sub-Saharan & African History	Large island off southeast Africa settled by Austronesian and African peoples, former French colony.
Narmer	Ancient Egypt & the Nile	Early Egyptian king credited with unifying Upper and Lower Egypt around 3100 BCE, depicted on the Narmer Palette.
Nero	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Roman emperor infamous for persecuting Christians and blamed for the Great Fire of Rome in 64 CE.
New South Wales	Oceania & the Pacific	First British colony in Australia, founded in 1788 at Sydney as a penal settlement.
Nubia	Ancient Egypt & the Nile	Region south of Egypt along the Nile, home to the Kingdom of Kush, alternately conquered by and conquering Egypt.
opium	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Narcotic crop at the center of the 19th-century Opium Wars between Britain and Qing China.
Petra	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Rock-cut Nabataean city in Jordan, wealthy from controlling incense and spice caravan routes.
Philippines	South & Southeast Asia	Southeast Asian archipelago colonized by Spain then the United States, site of the Philippine-American War.
purple	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Tyrian purple dye extracted from murex snails, prized in antiquity and named for Phoenician production centers.
rubber	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Latex commodity from the Amazon and later the Congo and Southeast Asia, driving colonial exploitation.
salt	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Preservative mineral traded via trans-Saharan routes and taxed under monopolies like the one Gandhi's Salt March targeted.
Sardinia	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Mediterranean island contested by Carthage and Rome, becoming a Roman province after the First Punic War.
Sassanid Empire	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Last pre-Islamic Persian empire, rival of Byzantium, overthrown by Arab Muslim conquest in the 7th century.
satraps	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Provincial governors of the Achaemenid Persian Empire who administered regions on the king's behalf.
Scythians	The Ancient Near East & Middle East	Nomadic Iranian horse-riding peoples of the Eurasian steppe, known for elaborate gold burial mounds.
Sicily	Ancient Rome & the Mediterranean	Mediterranean island fought over by Carthage and Rome in the First Punic War, later a Roman province.
terracotta	Trade, Technology & Material Culture	Fired clay material used for China's Terracotta Army as well as Greek pottery and figurines.
United Kingdom	Modern Europe & the World Wars	Union centered on Britain, head of a global empire and belligerent in both World Wars.
