=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Rigoletto ===
(Questions where 'Rigoletto' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 11 found, 63 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 23 found, 69 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2024 Purdue IM Housewrite (2024) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giuseppe Verdi [Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi]
  - In an opera by this composer, Leonora's father accidentally shoots himself after she attempts to elope with Don Alvaro.
  - In another opera by the composer of La forza del destino, two characters sing "O terra addio" as they are buried alive.
  - That opera by this composer also contains the arias "O patria mia" and "Ritorna vincitor." The Duke of Mantua sings the aria (*) "La donna e mobile" in an opera by this composer titled for a hunchbacked jester.
  - The titular Ethiopian princess falls in love with the Egyptian commander Radames in this composer's most famous opera.
  - For 10 points, name the composer of Rigoletto and Aida.

[TM2] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Milan [or Milano; accept Milanese Quartets]
  - An opera house in this city staged a Parasite-inspired Rigoletto in 2022 starring Amartuvshin Enkhbat.
  - The younger of two oboist brothers from this city wrote the opera Memet and 65 galant-style fast-slow-fast symphonies in early sonata form listed in the J-C catalog.
  - While working on the opera Lucio Silla, a young Mozart composed six string quartets named for this city.
  - After a conductor was challenged to a duel for refusing to conduct an encore, he (*) banned them entirely at a venue in this city in 1921.
  - The Sammartini brothers worked in this city.
  - Before her Met debut, Leontyne  Price became the first African-American to sing a leading role, Aida, at an opera house in this city.
  - Nabucco, Falstaff, and Otello all premiered at an opera house in this city whose upper balcony hosts opinionated snobs called loggionisti .
  - For 10 points, Arturo Toscanini was the longtime music director of what city's La Scala?

[TM3] 2023 Canadian Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giuseppe Verdi [or Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi]
  - A tenor aria by this composer begins with three D-sharps, followed by dotted F-sharp, E, C-sharp, and was so catchy that performers were forbidden to whistle it in public before the premiere.
  - One opera by this non-Mozart composer opens with a character claiming all women are alike in the aria "Questa o quella" .
  - The opening act of another of this composer's operas features a lively (*) drinking song.
  - One of this composer's characters realizes that his daughter Gilda has been killed by Sparafucile  after hearing a reprise of "La donna e mobile" .
  - In one opera by this composer, the "fallen woman" Violetta dies from tuberculosis.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian composer of Rigoletto and La Traviata.

[TM4] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Duke of Mantua [or Il Duca di Mantova; prompt on Mantua or Mantova]
  - In an aria in act 1, this character boasts that he can defy Argo's hundred eyes if he fancies a girl, but concedes that if he loves one today, he'll love another tomorrow.
  - This character is based on Francis I in Victor Hugo's play Le roi s'amuse, but the composer and librettist changed his name and background to get past censors.
  - Near the start of act 3, this character sings an aria in 3/8 time in B major in which the last measure of the 8-bar melody is frequently left silent by the orchestra.
  - He sings (*) "Questa o quella" in act 1, and secretly carries on an affair with his jester's daughter.
  - Gilda sacrifices herself to save this character from the assassin Sparafucile , and Gilda's father realizes that this character is still alive upon hearing him sing a reprise of his aria "La donna e mobile" .
  - For 10 points, name this tenor role from Verdi's Rigoletto, who is referred to only by his title of nobility.

[TM5] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giuseppe (Fortunino Francesco) Verdi
  - A late piece by this composer uses the unusual scale "C, D-flat, E, F-sharp, G-sharp, A-sharp, B, C." .
  - This composer unusually used a "Scherzo Fuga" as the last movement of his string quartet in E minor.
  - This composer alternated slashing G minor chords with bass drum thwacks in a choral movement that returns in the seventh and final movement.
  - This composer's last major piece was a set of Four (*) Sacred Pieces.
  - This composer imitated Berlioz by using four offstage trumpets to build up the opening fanfare of the "Tuba Mirum" of an 1874 piece.
  - That piece by this composer includes mezzo-soprano and soprano solos in its "Lux Aeterna" and "Libera Me" sections.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian composer of a Requiem in memory of Alessandro Manzoni, who also wrote operas like Otello and Rigoletto.

[TM6] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giuseppe Verdi
  - In the libretto to an opera by this composer, an asterisk marks where a pair of lovers kiss.
  - A villain in another opera of this composer dismisses heaven as an "old wives' tale" while singing that he "believes in an evil God." He closed his final opera with a fugue proclaiming "Everything in the world is a jest." Though not Cesar Cui, one of this composer's characters sings the Ave Maria af
  - The last two libretti written by Arrigo Boito were for operas by this composer, one of which was based on scenes from Henry IV and The Merry Wives of Windsor.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Otello and Falstaff, also known for Rigoletto.

[TM7] 2019 ILLIAC (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giuseppe Verdi
  - One aria by this composer in 3/8 time has the tenor hold an F-sharp for four bars on the e  of "e di pensier" (AY dee pense-YAIR).
  - That aria by this composer has a six-note phrase beginning with three emphatic eighth-note D-sharps before repeating the whole phrase down a step.
  - Spanish gypsies use work tools as percussion in a chorus by this composer.
  - The two main characters of another opera by this composer sing the (*) brindisi, "Libiamo ne'lieti calici." (leeb-YAH-mo nay-lyeh-tee ka-lee-chee).
  - This composer took inspiration from a Dumas fils (fees) work for an opera that ends with Violetta dying in Alfredo's arms.
  - "La donna e mobile" is sung by the Duke of Mantua in an opera by, For 10 points, what Italian composer of La Traviata, Il Trovatore, and Rigoletto?

[TM8] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Disguising themselves [or dressing up as someone else or pretending to be someone else or logical equivalents; accept cross-dressing or dressing up as a woman ONLY UNTIL "Cosi fan tutte" is mentioned, at which point it becomes incorrect]
  - In La Cenerentola, the duet "Zitto, zitto" is sung after two characters have performed this action.
  - The Marchesa Cavaradossi induce Angelotti to seek this means of escape in the first act of Tosca.
  - The two male leads of Cosi fan tutte do this in order to determine the outcome of their bet with Don Alfonso.
  - Gilda sings of "Gualtier Malde" after the Duke has performed this action to seduce her, while Rigoletto instructs her to perform this action before she is killed by Sparafucile.
  - Leonore performs this action in order to rescue Florestan, becoming the fictitious prison guard Fidelio.
  - For 10 points, name this action that causes the Count to confuse his wife with Susanna in The Marriage of Figaro.

[TM9] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Franz Liszt [or Franz Ritter von Liszt; or Liszt Ferenc in either order]
  - This composer counted an arrangement of the quartet from Verdi's Rigoletto among his "concert paraphrases".
  - He included musical depictions of Michelangelo's The Thinker and sonnets by Petrarch in a suite subtitled "Italy", following one subtitled "Switzerland".
  - Stacked fifths, E - B -F-sharp - C-sharp, imitate the devil tuning his violin in the first of four pieces by this composer based on Nikolaus Lenau's version of (*) Faust.
  - This composer of the Years of Pilgrimage and the Mephisto Waltzes portrayed the title character being dragged by a horse in "Mazeppa", the fourth of his Transcendental Etudes.
  - For 10 points, name this 19th-century piano virtuoso who composed the Hungarian Rhapsodies.

[TM10] 2013 Collegiate Novice (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giuseppe [Fortunino Francesco] Verdi
  - In one opera by this composer, the title character sings the aria "Pari siamo!" to describe how his own stabbing words are like the sword used by the assassin Sparafucile.
  - In another opera by this man, the Chorus of the Hebrew Slaves sings "Va, pensiero." This man wrote an opera in which "O, patria mia" is sung by a princess who dies when she is buried alive with her lover, Radames.
  - The Duke of Mantua sings "La donna e mobile" in this man's opera about a hunchbacked court jester.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian composer of Nabucco, Rigoletto, and Aida.

[TM11] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giuseppe Verdi's Messa da Requiem [require both parts; accept Manzoni Requiem; prompt on partial answers]
  - The soprano solo in this non-operatic work was written specifically for Teresa Stolz.
  - In one section of this work, offstage trumpets that begin very quietly are answered by the twelve brass players, three timpanis, and bass drum in an overall gradual crescendo that abruptly quiets before a bass solo.
  - This work's second section begins with four hammer-like chords followed by brass chords on the on-beats and ffff bass drum on the (*) off-beats, giving off the impression of thunder and lightning.
  - This work took parts from a Libera me that was originally part of a collaborative piece in honor of the death of Rossini.
  - Dedicated to writer Alessandro Manzoni, it contains a loud Tuba mirum and a well-known Dies Irae second section.
  - For 10 points, name this funeral mass created by the composer of Rigoletto.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's fondness for adapting plays set in Spain resulted in his operas Don Carlo, Ernani, and La forza del destino, which all feature characters named Don Carlo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi [or Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi]):
    Name this Italian composer better known for Rigoletto and La traviata.
  Part 2 (ans: Il trovatore ("troh-vuh-TOR-ay") [or The Troubadour]):
    In this Verdi opera set in Spain, Azucena ("ah-zoo-CHAY-nuh") accidentally threw the wrong baby into the fire, meaning the title character Manrico is actually his rival's brother. This opera contains the "Anvil Chorus."
  Part 3 (ans: Leonora [accept Leonore; accept Leonore Overtures]):
    This first name is shared by the soprano lead in Il trovatore and Don Carlo's sister in La forza del destino. Beethoven wrote three operatic overtures titled for this true name of Fidelio.

[BM2] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A child of this country's president played the Duke of Mantua in an extravagant 2018 production of Rigoletto staged in its capital. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nicaragua [or Republic of Nicaragua; or Republica de Nicaragua]):
    Name this country where protesters have uprooted the expensive Trees of Life planted by its Vice President and First Lady, Rosario Murillo.
  Part 2 (ans: a canal between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans [or a ship canal]):
    Daniel Ortega's son Laureano headed a failed plan to build one of these infrastructure projects in Nicaragua with Chinese funds. An expansion for another of these projects completed in 2016 added support for vehicles classified as "New Panamax."
  Part 3 (ans: Tlatelolco massacre):
    Nicaraguan Vice President Sergio Ramirez won the Cervantes Prize in 2017. Another winner, Elena Poniatowska, gained fame for covering this 1968 massacre of students in Mexico's Plaza de las Tres Culturas.

[BM3] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a setting of this specific text, thundering G minor chords alternate with bass drum hits. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dies Irae" [accept "The Day of Wrath"]):
    Name this section of the Requiem mass, the first in the Sequentia. An oft-quoted Gregorian chant setting of this text begins with the notes [read slowly] "F, E, F, D, E, C, D."
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    This composer included an apocalyptic "Dies Irae" in his Requiem. This composer is better known for his many operas, such as Rigoletto and Aida.
  Part 3 (ans: Stabat Mater dolorosa):
    Verdi created a setting of this hymn as part of his late collection Quattro pezzi sacri. Giovanni Pergolesi's most famous sacred piece is a setting of this Latin hymn.

[BM4] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these works opens with shimmering runs and octaves marked "a capriccio" before introducing the andante theme from Rigoletto's "Bella figlia dell'amore." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: piano transcriptions by Franz Liszt [accept concert paraphrases, arrangements, partitions, or reminiscences by Franz Liszt] (The latter work clued is Reminiscences de Don Juan.)):
    Composer and type of piece required. Name these works inspired by other composers. They include solo arrangements of Beethoven's symphonies, as well as a work that contrapuntally juxtaposes a "statue" theme with the Champagne Aria.
  Part 2 (ans: lieder [prompt on art songs]):
    Liszt's transcriptions of works in this genre often incorporate broken chords around the vocal line, as in his version of Schumann's Widmung. Liszt also transcribed Der Erlkonig and many other Schubert examples of these songs that set poetry to music.
  Part 3 (ans: La Campanella [or Etude No. 3 in G-sharp minor from Liszt's Grandes etudes de Paganini]):
    This notoriously hard Liszt etude incorporates a transcription of another composer's Ronde a la clochette. In this G-sharp minor piece, the right hand leaps between the melody, played with thumb, and a high D-sharp to depict the title ringing object.

[BM5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many composers were musically inspired by the story of Joan of Arc. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    Giovanna d'Arco is an opera by this composer, who also wrote Rigoletto and La Traviata.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Honegger ("ar-TOOR oh-neh-GAIR")):
    The oratorio Jean d'Arc au bucher, featuring a prominent part for ondes Martenot ("OND mart-NO"), is by this Swiss member of Les Six ("lay seese") and composer of Pacific 231.
  Part 3 (ans: Julius Eastman):
    The Holy Presence of Joan d'Arc is a work for cello ensemble by this African-American minimalist composer, who used indeterminate notation and gave several works provocative titles like Gay Guerrilla.

[BM6] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a climactic scene from this opera, a character throws his gambling winnings at the feet of his lover. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Traviata [or The Fallen Woman]):
    Name this opera in which Violetta dies of consumption after being separated from Alfredo by his father.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    La Traviata is an opera by this Italian composer of tragedies like Aida and Rigoletto.
  Part 3 (ans: "Libiamo ne' lieti calici" [or brindisi]):
    Alfredo and Violetta meet in Act One of La Traviata after singing this lively drinking song as a duet. Either the name of the song or the Italian genre of the song is acceptable.

[BM7] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The mad scene is a storied tradition in Italian opera. Name some operas featuring them for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucia di Lammermoor [accept just Lucia]):
    One famous operatic mad scene is probably the one sung by the title Scottish woman of this Gaetano Donizetti opera. That mad scene begins with this opera's aria "Il dolce suono."
  Part 2 (ans: I Puritani or The Puritans):
    This Vincenzo Bellini opera contains several moments in which Elvira descends into madness after being separated from her lover Lord Arturo Talbo, such as during her Act II aria "Vien, diletto, e in ciel la luna."
  Part 3 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    Lady Macbeth attempts to wash her hands of imagined blood in the mad scene "Una macchia e qui tuttora" from this Italian composer's operatic adaptation of Macbeth. He also wrote Rigoletto and La Traviata.

[BM8] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In 1964, an all-black-and-white performance of this opera was directed by Luchino Visconti, who also featured it in the opening scene of his film Senso. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Il Trovatore [or The Troubadour]):
    Name this opera. In Act 2 of this opera, Spanish gypsies perform a chorus that begins "Vedi! La Forsche" ["for-skay"] while striking anvils.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonard Bernstein (the opera is Candide)):
    Visconti also directed a 1966 production of Falstaff that was conducted by this man. This conductor's own operas include one with the oft-excerpted soprano aria "Glitter and Be Gay."
  Part 3 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    Visconti collaborated with Maria Callas for a production of La Traviata, which, like Il Trovatore, is by this Italian composer of Otello and Rigoletto.

[BM9] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, the dying Violetta Valery receives a letter saying that Alfredo is on his way to her, though he will be too late to save her life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Traviata [accept The Fallen Woman]):
    Name this opera featuring the Act III aria "Addio del passato," in which Violetta sings her goodbye to Alfredo.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi):
    This Italian composer wrote La Traviata as well as Rigoletto and Aida.
  Part 3 (ans: Il Trovatore [accept The Troubadour]):
    Verdi worked on the score for La Traviata while also composing this other masterpiece of his from the 1850s. This opera closes with the cabaletta aria "Di quella pira," in which the hero exclaims that he will rescue his mother from burning at the stake.

[BM10] 2018 Stevenson Memorial Tournament (SMT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character throws a party where the guests sing the drinking song "Libiamo ne' lieti calici." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Violetta [prompt on La Traviata]):
    Name this operatic character. When she lies to another character by telling him she's in love with a baron, she has gambling winnings thrown at her feet.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    Violetta falls in love with Alfredo and dies of tuberculosis in La Traviata, an opera by this composer who also wrote Rigoletto and Aida.
  Part 3 (ans: flower):
    After Violetta coughs violently at the party and the guests leave to let her rest, Alfredo comes to her and gives her one of these objects.

[BM11] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At its premiere, this opera's composer insisted on casting the tenor Carlo Guasco in the role of its title bandit, which is intended for a contralto range. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ernani):
    Name this opera whose third act depicts a visit by Don Carlos to the tomb of Charlemagne. In 1904, it was the first opera to be recorded completely.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    This composer used a drama by Victor Hugo as the basis of his Ernani. This prolific composer of Otello and Rigoletto is sometimes referred to jokingly as "Joe Green," a translation of his name into English.
  Part 3 (ans: Jerusalem [or Gerusalemme; accept Jerusalem Delivered]):
    Verdi also wrote a grand opera titled for this city that centers on the lovers Gaston and Helene. Joseph Haydn's opera Armida is based on a witch from an Italian poem named after this city.

[BM12] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a work set in this country, Renato finds out that Riccardo is wearing a black cloak and red ribbon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United States of America [or the USA]):
    Name this modern-day country, the setting of an opera that ends with Renato stabbing Riccardo. Censors changed the setting of that controversial opera from Sweden to this modern-day country.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    The United States is the setting of A Masked Ball, an opera by this Italian composer of Rigoletto.
  Part 3 (ans: the Anvil Chorus [or "Vedi! le fosche"; prompt on Coro di zingari]):
    In another Verdi opera, Spanish Gypsies sing this famous piece at the beginning of the second act of Il trovatore.

[BM13] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the fourth and final act of the opera, this character sings the prayer "Ave maria, piena di grazia, eletta fra le spose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Desdemona):
    Name this character who repeats the word "salce" ("SAHL-chay") in a song she learnt from her mother's maid.
  Part 2 (ans: a thunderstorm):
    Desdemona appears in Otello, which begins with one of these weather events. The last act of Rigoletto is set during one of these events, using the piccolo to depict lightning.
  Part 3 (ans: Arrigo Boito):
    Verdi came out of retirement to write Otello and Falstaff in large part because of the talent of this librettist. This librettist also wrote the opera Mefistofele.

[BM14] 2015 PACE NSC (2015) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: When the melody of this aria is introduced, the last bar is conspicuously silent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "La Donna e mobile" [or "Woman is flighty" or "Woman is fickle"]):
    Name this aria in which the Duke of Mantua compares the title figure to a feather in the wind.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    "La Donna e mobile" appears in the opera Rigoletto by this composer, who also wrote Aida and Falstaff.
  Part 3 (ans: Sparafucile):
    Rigoletto pays this assassin to murder his master the Duke, but he instead kills Gilda after the latter agrees to take the Duke's place.

[BM15] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: His opera Nabucco is based on stories from the Book of Jeremiah and the Book of Daniel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi):
    Name this composer of Aida and Rigoletto.
  Part 2 (ans: Va, Pensiero [prompt on "Hebrew Slaves Chorus"]):
    This chorus from the third act of Nabucco tells the story of the exiles in Babylon after the destruction of the First Temple in Jerusalem. Sung by a chorus of Hebrew slaves, it begins with words that translate as "Fly, my thought, on golden wings."
  Part 3 (ans: Temistocle Solera):
    Giuseppe Verdi often collaborated with this librettist for his historical operas, such as Nabucco, Giovanna d'Arco, and Atilia. This man claimed that Verdi was a "tyrant" and would often lock him up in a room to write.

[BM16] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This song is sometimes known by its first line, "Vedi! Le fosche notturne", and it describes how women turn days from gloom to bright sunshine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the "Anvil Chorus" [prompt on "the Gypsy Chorus" or "Coro di Zingari"]):
    Identify this piece from act 2, scene 1 of Il Trovatore, in which a group of Spanish Gypsies set to work.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi):
    Il Trovatore was composed by this Italian, whose other operas include Rigoletto and Aida.
  Part 3 (ans: being burned at the stake [or being burned on a (funeral) pyre; or other obvious equivalents involving being burned to death]):
    Il Trovatore also features the aria "Di quella pira", in which Manrico vows to save his mother Azucena from this fate. This fate also befalls Pollione and Norma at the end of a Vincenzo Bellini opera.

[BM17] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: New York's Astor Place Riots began during a performance of this man's opera Macbeth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    Name this Italian composer who created a vengeful jester in Rigoletto.
  Part 2 (ans: The Mastersingers of Nuremberg [or Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg]):
    In 1919, civilians and servicemen rioted in Times Square to protest the Lexington Theater's staging of this Richard Wagner opera that ends with Walther joining the namesake guild after Veit Pogner deems his voice worthy.
  Part 3 (ans: Naples [or Napoli]):
    Another opera that sparked rioting was The Mute Girl of Portici, in which Masaniello leads a revolution in this city. This city's musical tradition includes the popular songs "O Sole Mio" and "Funiculi, Funicula".

[BM18] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several characters in this opera are chided into enlisting in the army by a gypsy in the aria "Al suon del tamburo." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Force of Destiny [or La forza del destino]):
    Name this opera centering on the forbidden love between Don Alvaro and Leonora. It ends after Alvaro mortally wounds Don Carlos, who sought revenge for the accidental death of his father at Alvaro's hands.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    The Force of Destiny is an opera by this Italian composer, who used Egypt as a setting for his opera Aida.
  Part 3 (ans: Francesco Maria Piave):
    The libretto for The Force of Destiny was written by this man, who also provided the librettos for Rigoletto and La Traviata.

[BM19] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This scene is followed by Azucena's singing of "Stride la vampa," which declares her desire to exact revenge on the Count. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Anvil Chorus [accept "Vedi! Le fosche notturne spoglie" before read]):
    Name this song from an opera. It is officially called "Vedi! Le fosche notturne spoglie."
  Part 2 (ans: "La donna e mobile"):
    This song from Rigoletto is sung by the Duke of Mantua. Its title is commonly translated as "woman is fickle."
  Part 3 (ans: A Masked Ball [or Un Ballo in Maschera]):
    Riccardo's "Laughing Aria" appears in this other Verdi opera. In this opera, Riccardo is destined to be killed by Renato, the husband of Riccardo's beloved Amelia, after shaking Renato's hand.

[BM20] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One character in this opera rejoices in the name of her beloved in "Caro Nome". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rigoletto):
    Name this opera, whose title character, a hunchbacked jester, fears that his daughter, Gilda, will become the conquest of the Duke of Mantua, who sings "La donna e mobile".
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe (Fortunino Franceso) Verdi):
    Rigoletto is by this Italian opera composer of Aida.
  Part 3 (ans: (Mary Violet) Leontyne Price):
    Aida was one of the major roles for this African-American Verdi soprano who recorded it twice, once in 1962 led by Georg Solti and once in 1970 led by Erich Leinsdorf.

[BM21] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Italian composers.
  Part 1 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    This composer of operas such as Rigoletto and Aida also composed a requiem mass in memory of Alessandro Manzoni.
  Part 2 (ans: Ottorino Respighi):
    This man's three Ancient Airs and Dances suites are based on Renaissance lute music. He is probably best known for his Roman Trilogy, in which he depicted that city's Fountains, Pines, and Festivals.
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Boccherini):
    This man composed over 100 string quintets. His 30th string quintet is subtitled "Night music of the streets of Madrid," and his 11th string quintet included a noted minuet.

[BM22] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A reprise of this aria is heard when Rigoletto opens a sack to discover his daughter's dead body. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "La Donna e Mobile"):
    Name this aria sung by the Duke of Mantua, whose title translates as "woman is fickle."
  Part 2 (ans: Sparafucile):
    Rigoletto sings the duet "Pari Siamo" with this incompetent assassin, who is hired to kill the Duke of Mantua, but is convinced by his sister Maddalena to kill the next person who enters the room. Unfortunately for Rigoletto, that person is his daughter Gilda.
  Part 3 (ans: "Caro Nome"):
    In the first act of Rigoletto, Gilda sings this aria, in which she declares her love for a student named Gualtier Malde, who is actually the Duke of Mantua in disguise. As foreshadowing, most of its coloratura passages occur on the word "die."

[BM23] 2012 ACF Fall (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, the Duke of Mantua sings "Questa o quella" to show that all women are the same to him, while the most famous aria is "La donna e mobile." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rigoletto):
    Name this opera about the fall of a hunchbacked court jester.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    Rigoletto is an opera by this composer, whose other operas include La Traviata and Il Trovatore.
  Part 3 (ans: Otello):
    This opera by Verdi was based on a Renaissance play. Its fourth act begins with a "Willow Song" and Ave Maria, and its antagonist sings a Credo before setting his plan into motion.
