=== STOCK CLUES: Bizet ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 29 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]
  - The final movement of an orchestral suite by this composer is pervaded by the three-note horn ostinato "G-sharp, E, F-sharp," which mimics a carillon.
  - This composer's best-known piano music is a set of four-hands miniatures with titles like "Soap Bubbles" and "The Spinning Top." A youthful symphony by this composer opens with the tutti melody "C, down to ascending [emphasize italic notes] G-G-C, C-C-E, E-E-G" and was first performed 60 years after his death.
  - This composer quoted the Epiphany hymn "March of the Kings" throughout his two L'Arlesienne suites.
  - An opera by this composer set in Sri Lanka features the friends Nadir and Zurga singing the duet Au fond du temple saint.
  - For 10 points, name this French composer of The Pearl Fishers, who included a habanera and "Toreador Song" in his opera Carmen. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Georges Bizet
  - The opening prelude of an opera by this composer supposedly ends with a song using a "fate" motif that only Satan knew as he was expelled from paradise by Allah. [PWR]
  - Another of this composer's characters calls on "air spirits, spirits of the wave" and takes a three-part oath of chastity in "Je le jure." This composer wrote an opera in which Ralph and Henry Smith duel over the honor of Catherine Glover; in another of his works, two characters echo the line "let us swear to remain friends." This composer wrote (*) "Oh Dieu Brahma" and "Au fond du temple saint," in which Nadir and Zurga promise not to vie for the love of Leila.
  - However, his most famous work features a dancer who seduces the soldier Don Jose, listens to Escamillo sing the Toreador Song, and sings the Habanera.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of The Pearl Fishers and Carmen. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]
  - The allegretto vivace scherzo of one of this man's symphonies opens with a fugato in which first violins, then second violins, violas, and celli in turn enter with the leggiero theme.
  - He used a nearly opposite order of entry in the fugato development of the adagio second movement of another symphony.
  - This composer's aria "De mon amie" was based on that movement, and the symphony borrows heavily from Charles Gounod's Symphony in D.
  - French horns imitate church bells in the "Carillon" movement of one suite by this composer of the Roma Symphony.
  - The prelude to that suite and farandole from a later suite both quote the "March of the Kings," and both came from incidental music for an Alphonse Daudet play.
  - For 10 points, name this French composer who wrote a Symphony in C at seventeen, as well as L'Arlesienne and the operas The Pearl Fishers and Carmen. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Georges Bizet
  - One of this composer's operas is based on Alfred de Musset's Namouna.
  - He also completed Fromental Halevy's unfinished opera Noe.
  - He imitated Donizetti's Don Pasquale in an opera which ends with Odoardo marrying Bettina.
  - He wrote the aria "Comme autrefois," in which Leila recalls happier times, for an opera whose characters include a high priest of Brahma named Nourabad.
  - In that opera, Nadir and Zurga sing the duet "Au fond du temple saint." The title character of his most famous opera compares love to a rebellious bird in an Act 1 habanera.
  - In that opera, Escamillo sings an aria usually known as the Toreador Song.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Don Procopio, The Pearl Fishers and Carmen. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]
  - In one opera by this composer, a character sings that the anger inside him has abated like the storm outside in "L'orage s'est calme".
  - A character in one of his operas sings "Comme autrefois dans la nuit sombre" after describing being given a necklace by a fugitive she saved.
  - In another opera by this composer, a character sings a seguidilla about Lillas Pastia's inn.
  - Two friends sing about falling in love with a Brahman priestess at the same moment in his duet, "Au fond du temple saint".
  - In one of his operas, Leila's hand is sought by the title characters, Zurga and Nadir.
  - The title character of one of his operas sings a habanera, and flirts with Escamillo the toreador and with Don Jose.
  - For 10 points, name this French composer of The Pearl Fishers and Carmen. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Charles Grandmougin ("SHARL gron-moo-ZHAN") wrote the libretto for this composer's oratorio La Vierge ("vee-ERZH"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jules Massenet [or Jules Emile Frederic Massenet]):
    Name this composer of the operas Manon and Thais("tye-EES"), the latter of which features the symphonic intermezzo "Meditation" ("med-i-ta-S'YON") for solo violin and piano.
  Part 2 (ans: Les sirenes [or The Sirens]):
    A text by Grandmougin also inspired this work for solo soprano and three part choir by Lili Boulanger ("BOO-lon-zhay"), whose title creatures are depicted by a pedal F sharp and rising C sharp octaves.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Bizet("zhorzh BEE-zay") [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]):
    This composer also set words by Grandmougin to music, as well as writing incidental music to Alphonse Daudet's ("doh-DAY's") drama L'Arlesienne("lar-lez-YEN"). This composer wrote an opera based on Prosper Merimee's novel Carmen.

[B2] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Orientalism was a frequent inspiration for European opera composers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Turandot):
    Giacomo Puccini used a Chinese folk melody as a motif in this opera. Calaf wins a riddle contest and sings "Nessun dorma" in this opera set in Beijing, whose title princess sings "In questa reggia."
  Part 2 (ans: The Pearl Fishers [or Les pecheurs de perles] (by Georges Bizet)):
    This opera set in Sri Lanka includes the tenor and baritone duet "Au fond du temple saint." That duet in this opera is sung by two characters who are both in love with Leila.
  Part 3 (ans: George Frideric Handel [or Georg Friederich Handel] (The operas are Tamerlano and Serse.)):
    An opera about Tamerlane by this composer contains one of the first starring tenor roles in opera history. Another Middle Eastern monarch in one of this man's operas addresses "Tender and beautiful fronds" in a recitative ("reh-sit-uh-TEEV").

[B3] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these composers who wrote pieces titled Symphony in C. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Bizet):
    This composer was a student of Charles Gounod (goo-NOH) when he wrote his Symphony in C, which he suppressed due to similarities with his teacher's Symphony in D. He wrote the opera Carmen.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Dukas (dyoo-KAHSS)):
    This highly self-critical composer published his Symphony in C, but destroyed all sketches of a planned second symphony. He wrote the ballet La Peri (pay-REE) and the opera Ariadne and Bluebeard.
  Part 3 (ans: Igor Stravinsky):
    This composer of a neoclassical Symphony in C also wrote the single-movement Symphonies of Wind Instruments as a memorial to Claude Debussy and omitted violins from his Symphony of Psalms.

[B4] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two characters in this opera sing the friendship duet "Dio, che nell'alma infondere" (dee-oh, kay nell-AHL-mah in-fon-DAY-ray). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Don Carlos [or Don Carlo] (composed by Giuseppe Verdi)):
    Name this opera whose third act ends with a massive auto-da-fe. An eyepatch-wearing princess tries to seduce this opera's title character while singing the "Veil Song."
  Part 2 (ans: The Pearl Fishers [or Les pecheurs de perles]):
    The friendship duet "Au fond du temple saint" ("oh fawn" du TAWM-pluh SAHNT) is sung by Nadir and Zurga in this opera, in which Nadir and Zurga both love a priestess of Brahma named Leila.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]):
    This man composed The Pearl Fishers. The "Toreador Song" appears in his opera Carmen.

[B5] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first suite of this composition ends with a movement called "Carillon" in which the horns imitate tolling church bells. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: incidental music to L'Arlesienne [or the L'Arlesienne Suites]):
    Name this composition that uses a theme based on the Epiphany carol "March of the Kings" in both its first suite's "Prelude" and its second suite's concluding "Farandole." It was written to accompany an Alphonse Daudet play.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]):
    This French composer of the incidental music to L'Arlesienne and a precocious Symphony in C is best known for his opera Carmen.
  Part 3 (ans: Ernest Guiraud):
    This New Orleans-born French composer arranged the L'Arlesienne Suite No. 2 and two suites of music from Carmen. He also wrote orchestral recitatives for both Carmen and Offenbach's The Tales of Hoffmann.

[B6] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The eternal friendship of two men is threatened when they fall in love with the same woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Pearl Fishers [or Les pecheurs de perles]):
    In this opera set in Ceylon, the woman in question is torn between secular love and her sacred oath as a priestess.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Bizet):
    The Pearl Fishers is by this French composer of the incidental music to L'Arlesienne.
  Part 3 (ans: Habanera [or L'amour est un oiseau rebelle]):
    In Bizet's opera Carmen, the title character describes love as a "rebellious bird that none can tame" in this aria.

[B7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the second act of this opera, a group of women sing the tavern song "Les tringles des sistres tintaient." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carmen):
    Name this opera in which the title character sings "En vain pour eviter," and a village girl expresses her determination to save the protagonist in "Je dis que rien ne m'epouvante."
  Part 2 (ans: a bird [or oiseau]):
    When Carmen appears in the first act, she sings an aria commonly known as the Habanera. In a descending chromatic figure, she compares love to a rebellious one of these creatures in the aria's first line.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Bizet):
    Carmen was composed by this Frenchman, whose other operas include The Pearl Fishers.

[B8] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character prays to God to protect her in her Act 3 aria "Je dis que rien ne m'epouvante." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Micaela):
    Name this soprano role that was not present in the original novella by Prosper Merimee. As an innocent village maiden, she serves as a foil to the brash and indecent title character.
  Part 2 (ans: The Pearl Fishers [or Les Pecheurs de Perles]):
    In this other opera by the same composer, Nadir and Zurga sing the friendship duet "Au fond du temple saint" in spite of their mutual love for the Ceylonese princess Leila.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Bizet):
    This composer of The Pearl Fishers included Micaela's aria and the still more famous "Habanera" in his Carmen.

[B9] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Act Three of the opera in which he appears, this character has his hat shot off of his head by his rival, Don Jose. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Escamillo):
    Name this bullfighter, who sings "Toreador, en garde!" in his aria, "Votre toast, je peux vous le rendre".
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Bizet):
    Escamillo appears in Carmen, an opera by this French composer who wrote an opera about the love triangle between Leila, Nadir, and Zurga, The Pearl Fishers.
  Part 3 (ans: "Au fond du temple saint" [or "At the back of the holy temple"]):
    Nadir and Zurga sing of how they agreed to renounce the woman they both fell in love with, in order to preserve their bond, in this celebrated "friendship duet" from The Pearl Fishers.

[B10] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This ballet features the "Peasant" pas de deux as well as the several dances feature "Grape Harvesters" and "Winemakers." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giselle, ou Les Wilis [or Giselle, or The Wilis]):
    Name this ballet in which Bathilde gifts a necklace to a figure who later tries to prevent Myrtha from killing a man who had earlier disguised himself as a villager.
  Part 2 (ans: Adolphe Charles Adam):
    The music to Giselle was written by this composer who also wrote Le corsair.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]):
    The librettist of Giselle, Saint-George, also wrote the libretto to The Fair Maid of Perth, an opera by this composer of Carmen.

[B11] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The second suite of this name ends with a "Farandole" and was arranged by Ernest Guiraud. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L'Arlesienne):
    Identify this name shared by two orchestral suites arranged from the incidental music its composer wrote for an Alphonse Daudet play.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Bizet [or Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet]):
    This French composer of The Pearl Fishers wrote L'Arlesienne. His final opera ends with the title woman being fatally stabbed by Don Jose.
  Part 3 (ans: "Au Fond du Temple Saint"):
    In Act One of The Pearl Fishers, Nadir and Zurga sing this duet in which they declare eternal friendship after realizing they both fell in love with the same woman.

[B12] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece inspired Balanchine's ballet The Crystal Palace and is scored in the same key as its composer's lifelong pursuit, the "Roma" Symphony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Symphony in C [accept "Bizet's First Symphony"]):
    Identify this work never performed during the lifetime of its composer, who created it while a young student at the Paris Conservatory to pay homage to the D major first Symphony of his teacher.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Bizet):
    This Frenchman composed the Symphony in C at age 17, well before working on the incidental music for Daudet's L'Arlesienne and the opera Carmen.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Gounod):
    Bizet's aforementioned teacher was this fellow, who combined a new melody with the C major First Prelude from Bach's Well-Tempered Clavier to create his Ave Maria. He also composed the opera Faust.

[B13] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two characters in this opera sing the friendship duet "Au fond du temple saint", before one of them admits that he had betrayed the other in a solo aria "Je crois entendre encore". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Pearl Fishers [or Les pecheurs de perles]):
    Name this opera set in Ceylon in which Zurga and Nadir vie for the love of the Brahman priestess Leila.
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Bizet):
    The Pearl Fishers is by this French composer, whose masterpiece portrays a love triangle between Don Jose, the toreador Escamillo, and the title gypsy, Carmen.
  Part 3 (ans: habanera [or "L'amour est un oiseau rebelle"; or "Love is a rebellious bird"]):
    Carmen's impetuousness is made clear in this aria, in which she warns "if I love you, best beware". Bizet unknowingly used a melody written by Sebastian Yradier as the basis for this aria.
