=== STOCK CLUES: Ionesco ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 41 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 27 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu] (The play in the first line is The Picture.)
  - A character in a play by this author miraculously turns into a beautiful maid after her brother, the Fat Gentleman, shoots at her.
  - This author's play Frenzy for Two, Or More is often paired with a play in which a character created by this author shows off his ability to fly.
  - A logician uses a syllogism to prove that a dog is a cat in a play by this author of A Stroll in the Air.
  - In an "anti-play" by this author, which is set in an "English interior, with English armchairs," the Smiths and the Martins engage in surreal conversation after the Fire Chief mentions the title character.
  - In a play by this author of The Lesson, the typist Daisy leaves Berenger after every character except for him turns into the title animal.
  - For 10 points, name this absurdist Romanian-French playwright of The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: kings [or rois; accept Exit the King or Le Roi se meurt (by Eugene Ionesco); accept Ubu Roi or King Ubu]
  - In a play titled for one of these people, the protagonist is credited with inventing the tractor, setting the Thames on fire, and writing all of Shakespeare's plays.
  - In another play titled for one of these people, the protagonist cries in agony after he thinks he is shot by a cannonball, and then literally tears apart a captain who says it was just a cap pistol.
  - In a play, one of these people is told, "You're going to die at the end of the show," by one of his two wives, Marguerite and Marie.
  - A person with this role has a protruding belly depicting a spiral in a play later staged using puppets.
  - The nonsense word "merdre " opens a play titled for one of these people who reneges on a promise to make Bordure  the Duke of Lithuania after they kill Wenceslas.
  - For 10 points, what title is taken by the hero of Alfred Jarry's first play about Ubu? [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]
  - A character created by this author wryly criticizes writers who believe in the "narrow path" of "Historical Necessity" in a conversation with a journalist and moves into a prefabricated house in Gloucestershire. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, a throne room guard announces the entry of a doctor who also functions as "Court Surgeon, Bacteriologist, Executioner, and Astrologist." As a child, this author had the supernatural experience of (*) floating while walking through a whitewashed village, directly inspiring the play A Stroll in the Air. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, Marie and Marguerite are the wives of a 400-year-old man who confronts his impending death.
  - This author wrote a play in which a murderer who drowns his victims haunts a "radiant city." Exit the King and The Killer are by, for 10 points, what playwright whose recurring character Berenger defiantly refuses to transform into a rhinoceros? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]
  - A character in a play by this author addresses "all that is left from humanity" as "leftovers" that can "make a very good soup." In that play by this author, a character greets the Lady, the Photo-engraver, and the Belle while introducing his wife as Semiramis.
  - In that play by this author, the deaf-mute Orator writes "ANGELFOOD" on a chalkboard before the Emperor arrives, causing two elderly characters to jump out of a window.
  - Those characters created by this author, the Old Man and Old Woman, arrange a play's title objects for invisible guests.
  - In another play by this author, Jean's skin turns green and the typist Daisy leaves Berenger, who watches every character but himself turn into the title animal.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Chairs and Rhinoceros. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Eugene Ionesco
  - In 1958, Kenneth Tynan touched off the so-called "London Controversy" by writing a brutally negative review of this author's plays. [PWR]
  - For the past 70 years, two of this author's early plays have been permanently staged by the Theatre de la Huchette in Paris. [PWR]
  - Many of this author's plays depict the irrational growth or proliferation of material things, such as a gentleman trapped in his apartment beneath an ever-increasing pile of furniture, or an expanding (*) corpse whose feet burst through a door.
  - This author's first play, which was originally directed by Nicholas Bataille, includes characters who repeat lines like "How curious, how bizarre, what a coincidence!" This author of The New Tenant and Amedee turned the sentences in an English textbook into a play about the breakdown of language between the Martins and the Smiths.
  - For 10 points, name this absurdist playwright of The Bald Soprano. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Eugene Ionesco
  - In a play by this man based on his short story "Oriflamme," a 15-year-old corpse is discovered by a switchboard operator named Madelain. [PWR]
  - An "invisible" emperor arrives to give a speech in one of his plays, much to the delight of the protagonists.
  - In a one act play by this author, "the Pupil" is stabbed by "The Professor," after which the maid brings in the next pupil to restart the cycle.
  - An old (*) couple commits suicide by defenestrating themselves one of his plays, and in another of his plays the Fire Chief solves the great doorbell debate.
  - The recurring character Beringer was created by--for 10 points--what absurdist playwright of The Chairs, The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros? [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Eug`ene Ionesco (or Eugen Ionescu)
  - One character created by this playwright is wished "cordolences" after the death of his grandfather and ends that play frantically hatching eggs. [PWR]
  - In a prequel, that character rejects a girl on account of her two noses, but ultimately agrees to marry Roberta. [PWR]
  - This playwright, who followed (+) Jack, or Obedience with The Future is in Eggs, created a character who impresses her teacher by naming all four seasons, but the teacher is upset that she can add and multiply but not subtract; that teacher ignores her toothache and (*) stabs her to death.
  - In another play, a cat is trampled, the Logician is identified by his boater hat, Jean's skin turns green, and the protagonist is left by Daisy.
  - For ten points, name this man who wrote The Lesson and of Berenger's refusal to transform in Rhinoceros. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Eugene Ionesco
  - This author wrote a volume of critical essays, interspersed with journalistic "intermezzos" in which he criticized the conservatism of writers in his home country.
  - The protagonist of one play by this author suddenly exclaims "I adore hashed brown potatoes!" and is introduced to the multiple-nosed Roberta and her younger sister Roberta II.
  - This author of Nu wrote up a long conversation in which every attempt to discern the ideology of the title character is met with a chuckle; that character uses a "picture of a colonel" to lure Dany to her death in a bright subsection of a metropolis known as the Radiant City.
  - This author wrote a cycle of plays about Jack as well as The Killer, which introduces a character who is spared the fate of Dudard and Daisy in his most famous work.
  - For 10 points, name this Absurdist playwright who wrote about Berenger in Rhinoceros and hailed from Romania. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This book was its author's first work written after learning French, which he described as "the most difficult task of my life," akin to "putting on a straitjacket." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Short History of Decay [or Precis de decomposition]):
    Name this 1949 book by Emil Cioran that adopts a similarly nihilist perspective to his On the Heights of Despair. This book argues that the decline of civilization allows thought to flourish by escaping old patterns.
  Part 2 (ans: Romania [accept The Transfiguration of Romania or Schimbarea la fata a Romaniei] (The other philosopher is Mircea Eliade.)):
    Cioran moved to France from this country, whose fascist movement he supported in a book on its "transfiguration." Another philosopher from this country theorized an "eternal return" to the "mythical age."
  Part 3 (ans: Ionescu [or Ionesco; accept Nae Ionescu; accept Eugene Ionesco]):
    Cioran and Eliade belonged to the fascist-sympathizing Trairist movement founded by a mystical philosopher with this surname. They were college friends of the absurdist playwright of The Chairs, who had this surname.

[B2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one play, a character with this profession warns a professor that "Philology leads to calamity!", but is ignored. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: maid [accept maidservant; accept housemaid; accept parlormaid; accept housekeeper; prompt on servant, domestic worker, or domestic help]):
    Name this profession. In another play by the same author, a character with this profession claims that Elizabeth and Donald are not husband and wife and is pushed offstage while reciting a poem that lists various items that "caught fire."
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    Those maids appear in The Lesson and The Bald Soprano, plays by this absurdist Romanian playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Genet (Those plays are The Maids and The Balcony)):
    Maids named Solange and Claire role-play the murder of their boss in a play by this French playwright, who wrote a play set in a role-playing-filled brothel, while a revolution rises outside.

[B3] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A play by this author includes stage directions stating that the title object "walks slowly around, circulating widely." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tristan Tzara [or Samuel Rosenstock] (The play is The Gas Heart.)):
    Name this author who used nonsense dialogue like "Statues, jewelry, grilled meats" and "Tangerine and white of Spain" in a play featuring the characters Eye, Neck, Mouth, Nose and Ear.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    Tristan Tzara is a French-language author from Romania just like this playwright of Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: Berenger ("bear-ahn-zhay")):
    In Ionesco's play The Killer, this recurring character meets the killer in the "radiant city." This character shouts "I'm not capitulating!" at the end of Rhinoceros.

[B4] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After finding several dead bodies in this location, the protagonist of one play decides to track down the murderer, who while on stage does almost nothing except for chuckle and shrug. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a swimming pool [accept an ornamental pool]):
    Identify this location. The aforementioned protagonist's love interest, Dany, is found dead in this location after quitting her job as a secretary in the Radiant City.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [accept Eugen Ionescu]):
    Dany is murdered by the Killer, who appears in The Killer, a work by this author of the Berenger plays.
  Part 3 (ans: Rhinoceros):
    In another Berenger play by Ionesco, he concludes the play by screaming "I'm not capitulating!" in reference to turning into one of these animals which title the play.

[B5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character created by this author develops a taste for "playing the madman" after twenty years of royal pageantry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    Name this playwright who wrote about an aristocrat who deludedly believes himself to be the king of Germany in Henry IV. This Italian playwright wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 2 (ans: Ubu Roi [or Ubu the King or King Ubu or King Turd] (by Alfred Jarry)):
    In this absurdist play by a different writer, a cowardly king swears "by my green candle." This play "for actors pretending to be puppets" ends with the title character fleeing to France to escape Bougrelas and the Tsar's army.
  Part 3 (ans: Berenger [accept King Berenger I] (The unnamed play is Rhinoceros by Eugene Ionesco.)):
    This character appears as a four-hundred-year-old monarch who struggles with his impending death in the play Exit the King. Another play ends with this character shouting, "I'm not capitulating!"

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the play in which she appears, this character recites a poem beginning with the line "the polypoids were burning in the wood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mary):
    Name this character, who claims her real name is Sherlock Holmes. This character rambles about two daughters' red and white eyes in an aside that claims Donald is not Donald and Elizabeth is not Elizabeth.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    This author created the maid Mary in The Bald Soprano. This author of Exit the King wrote a play in which Berenger ["bay-rehn-zhay"] refuses to capitulate, Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: The Chairs):
    Ionesco also wrote this "tragic farce," in which the Old Man imitates the month of February. At the end of this play, the Old Man and the Old Woman throw themselves out of a window into the ocean.

[B7] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A four-part poetic drama by this romantic author contains a scene known as the "Great Improvisation," in which a prisoner reproaches God for spurning his songs on the glass harmonica. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adam (Bernard) Mickiewicz ("ah-DOM MITS-kyuh-vits")):
    Name this Polish-Lithuanian poet, who wrote that "our nation is like lava, on the top it is hard and hideous, but its internal fire cannot be extinguished" in that play, Dziady. He also wrote Pan Tadeusz ("tah-DYOOSH").
  Part 2 (ans: Jerzy (Marian) Grotowski ("grow-TOFF-skee")):
    This Polish director illustrated his idea of "Poor Theater" with a production of Dziady and a staging of Stanislaw Wyspianski's ("stah-niss-WOFF viss-pee-YAN-skee's") play Akropolis in which the actors built an Auschwitz crematorium around the audience.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu] ("yo-NESS-koo")):
    One of Grotowski's first notable productions was a staging of this absurdist playright's one-act The Chairs. This French-Romanian author's Berenger cycle includes The Killer and Rhinoceros.

[B8] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A play was originally titled for this adjective after its author learned a series of "astonishing truths" from a textbook, such as the fact that the floor is down and that the ceiling is up. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "English" [or "anglaise"]):
    Name this adjective. At the start of that "anti-play," a middle class interior, two armchairs, and the seventeen strikes of a clock are all described by this adjective.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    After reading an English language primer, this Romanian-French author of Rhinoceros wrote his play The Bald Soprano.
  Part 3 (ans: maids [or maidservants; or Les Bonnes; prompt on servants]):
    In The Bald Soprano, a character with this profession named Mary recites a poem about objects catching on fire to the Fire Chief. In a play by Jean Genet, two members of this profession named Solange and Claire act out sadomasochistic fantasies.

[B9] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of Ubu Roi created Dr. Faustroll, a practitioner of this field, which has been defined as "the science of imaginary solutions." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pataphysics):
    Name this "philosophy" invented by Alfred Jarry, who claimed it would "examine the laws which govern exceptions and...explain the universe supplementary to this one."
  Part 2 (ans: Dadaism):
    Jarry was a major influence on Tristan Tzara, whose play The Gas Heart is the most well-known work of theater from this avant-garde movement of the 1910s and 1920s.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    The College de Pataphysique's members included the Marx Brothers, Marcel Duchamp, and this Romanian playwright. His absurdist works, influenced by both Jarry and Dada, include The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.

[B10] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Asher Nahor coined a colloquial Israeli word that meant getting swayed in a nationalistic fervor out of this play's title. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Rhinoceros [accept Rhinoceros]):
    Name this play that was intended as a satire of French behavior under German occupation. The green skin of the title creatures were meant to represent the green uniforms of the Iron Guard and Orpo.
  Part 2 (ans: Berenger):
    This character is the only one in Rhinoceros that never says, "Well, of all things!" This character is scolded at a cafe by his friend Jean for tardiness in Act I before a rhinoceros starts rampaging.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [accept Eugen Ionescu]):
    Rhinoceros is a play by this Romanian playwright who also wrote of the Smiths and Martins in The Bald Soprano.

[B11] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the start of this novella, one of its protagonists is described as a character 'you can never recall [...] without an inner trembling'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District [accept Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk]):
    Name this novella, in which Katerina betrays her husband Zinovy for Sergei. At the end, Katerina sees the faces of her murder victims in the river before she drowns.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Semyonovich Leskov):
    Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District is a novella by this author, who also wrote about the priest Savely Tuberozov in The Cathedral Clergy. Some of this author's early journalism and literary work was published under the pseudonym M. Stebnitsky.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    A different work inspired by Macbeth, containing a lemonade seller and a butterfly catcher, was written by this playwright. Other works by this Romanian-French playwright include The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.

[B12] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, one character interrupts a recitation with claims of having a toothache. That character also multiplies two ten-digit numbers. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: The Lesson (or La Lecon)):
    Name this play in which the Professor kills his student out of frustration at the end of the play, just as he did to all his previous students.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    The Lesson is a play by this author of The Bald Soprano and a play in which all of Berenger's friends turn into the title animal, Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: Amadeus [accept Amedee, or How to get rid of it]):
    Ionesco published another play titled for the French translation of this first name and subtitled "how to get rid of it". A Peter Shaffer play about a composer's jealousy and eventual murder of his rival is titled for this first name.

[B13] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, the title character and his wife Madeleine discuss what to do about an ever-growing corpse in their living room. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    Identify this playwright of Amedee, or How to Get Rid of It. In this author's The Killer, people are lured to their death with the promise of a picture of a colonel.
  Part 2 (ans: The Fire Chief):
    This character interrupts the dinner between The Smiths and The Martins in Ionesco's The Bald Soprano. This character tells an experimental fable about a dog and a cow.
  Part 3 (ans: Rhinoceros):
    In this Ionesco play, Daisy and Dudard turn into the title animal, a transformation that Berenger resists. The title of this play is ideally pronounced in French.

[B14] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character notes that "when the doorbell rings, sometimes there is someone, other times there is no one," settling an argument between Mr. and Mrs. Smith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Fire Chief [or le capitaine des pompiers]):
    Name this character who is revealed to be the lover of the maid Mary. The play in which this man appears, The Bald Soprano, is named for a character whom this man mentions in passing.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    The Bald Soprano is by this Romanian absurdist playwright. His recurring character Berenger ("bay-ron-ZHAY") appears in Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: "English"):
    The opening paragraph describing the setting of The Bald Soprano uses this adjective 17 times. The armchair, slippers, pipe, newspaper, and fire used by Mr. Smith are all described by this adjective.

[B15] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's name is shared by many of his family members, including his wife, a voice teacher, and all of his children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bobby Watson [accept either name]):
    Name this character whose death notice in the newspaper does not surprise Mr. Smith, even though this man died two years ago. A commercial traveler who shares this man's name rests and sleeps on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Tuesdays, even though there is no competition on those days.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    Bobby Watson is mentioned in a conversation in The Bald Soprano, a play by this absurdist Romanian-born playwright of Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: Fire Chief [or Capitan des pompiers]):
    This character in The Bald Soprano rings the doorbell, then hides himself as a joke before entering. He notes that the title character "always wears her hair the same way."

[B16] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this absurdist play, a young woman claims to be able to count to infinity and states that seven plus one is equal to nine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Lesson [or La Lecon ; by Eugene Ionesco]):
    Name this play by a different author that ends with a man wearing an armband with a swastika on it and then murdering the other main character.
  Part 2 (ans: Russia [or the Soviet Union]):
    Two absurdist playwrights in this country championed the movement by establishing a group to promote "real art" whose name is commonly abbreviated to OBERIU.

[B17] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's narrator becomes the concubine of a character named Villeroy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miracle of the Rose [accept Miracle de la rose]):
    Name this novel, whose narrator describes his experience at institutions like Mettray and Fontevrault. A man named Harcamone awaits execution in this novel.
  Part 2 (ans: The Maids [accept Les Bonnes]):
    The author of Miracle of the Rose, Jean Genet, also wrote this play, in which Solange and Claire's sadistic role-plays culminate in the latter drinking a poisoned cup of tea.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    Another pioneer of the Theatre of the Absurd was this author of The Bald Soprano, whose most famous work, Rhinoceros, ends with Berenger declaring that he is "not capitulating."

[B18] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play ends with an orator making noises like "Heu, heu, gu gou" and writing "ANGELFOOD" on a blackboard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Chairs [or Les Chaises]):
    Name this play in which the Old Man and the Old Woman welcome invisible guests to a gathering on their island before throwing themselves out the window.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    The Chairs is by this Romanian playwright whose other absurdist works include The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: a king [or an emperor]):
    The couple in The Chairs is overcome with emotion when an invisible person with this role enters the room. In another Ionesco play, a character with this profession is told that he will die by his wife Marguerite before disappearing in gray light and a "kind of mist."

[B19] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character appears as a king in a play in which Marie prevents him from finding out about his inevitable death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Berenger):
    Name this character who also appears in a play in which a large animal unexpectedly kills a cat while he talks to Jean in a cafe.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    Berenger was created by this Absurdist playwright of The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: Assimil):
    Ionesco was inspired to write The Bald Soprano by his experience learning English from materials provided by this French language learning company, whose textbook L'Anglais sans peine notoriously opens with the weird sentence "My tailor is rich."

[B20] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonists of this play are overjoyed when the Emperor arrives at their event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Chairs):
    Name this play in which the Old Man and the Old Woman set up a party for invisible guests to a hear speech given by the Orator.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    The Chairs is by this Romanian Absurdist playwright whose recurring character Berenger appears in Rhinoceros, The Killer, and Exit the King.
  Part 3 (ans: Theater of Cruelty [or Theatre de la Cruaute]):
    According to Martin Esslin, Theater of the Absurd was an outgrowth of this style of theater, theorized by Antoine Artaud in The Theater and Its Double. It attempts to assault the audience's senses, stripping words of their meanings.

[B21] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title figure is mentioned by the maid Mary's lover the fire chief, to which Mrs. Smith responds that she always wears her hair the same way. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bald Soprano [or The Bald Prima Donna, or La Cantatrice Chauve]):
    Name this play about the Smiths and the Martins, which was inspired by the playwright's attempt to learn English out of a book.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    The Bald Soprano was the first play by this Romanian-French playwright of The Chairs.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Jarry):
    This other absurdist playwright wrote a set of three plays about a murderous king of Poland. His other works include The Passion Considered as an Uphill Bicycle Race.

[B22] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The only indication that the title objects are occupied occurs at the end of this play. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Chairs [or Les Chaises]):
    Name this play which ends with the Orator leaving and the invisible audience starting to make noise. It begins with the Old Man and the Old Woman preparing for the arrival of the guests.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    The Chairs is by this absurdist playwright of The Bald Soprano and Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: Improvisation, or The Shepherd's Chameleon [or L'Impromptu de l'Alma]):
    In this Ionesco play, the playwright Ionesco is reprimanded and bullied by three versions of Bartholomeus and saved by his housekeeper, Marie. It is subtitled "The Shepherd's Chameleon."

[B23] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character appears in the play Exit the King, in which Marguerite repeatedly tells him that he will die, while Marie attempts to downplay this fact. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Berenger):
    Name this literary character who also appears in a play in which he falls in love with Daisy, who, like him, does not turn into a rhinoceros.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]):
    Exit the King and Rhinoceros are two plays by this Romanian Absurdist playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Henri Jarry):
    This proponent of 'Pataphysics is considered a forefather of Absurdism. Bougrelas and Bordure avenge the death of King Wenceslas of Poland by deposing the title character of his scatological play Ubu Roi.

[B24] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: It ends with the title character and his first wife Marguerite fading into blackness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Exit the King [or Le Roi Se Meurt]):
    Name this work featuring Berenger the First, in which, contrary to the title, almost all the characters but the central one leave the stage.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    Exit the King is by this Franch-Romanian absurdist of pessimistic absurd dramas such as The Chairs and Rhinoceros. Berenger is a recurring character for this creator of The Bald Soprano.
  Part 3 (ans: Pozzo):
    Fellow absurdist and French emigre Samuel Beckett created this character in Waiting for Godot. He becomes blind and has to be led by his slave by a rope he formerly pulled his slave Lucky by.

[B25] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The two main characters in this play end up killing themselves by jumping out of the window. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Chairs [or Les chaises]):
    Name this play in which the Old Man and the Old Woman prepare for the arrival of an orator.
  Part 2 (ans: Eugene Ionesco):
    The Chairs is a work by this Romanian absurdist playwright, who wrote about the inhabitants of a village transforming into animals in his play Rhinoceros.
  Part 3 (ans: an English language primer [accept anything indicating it's a book used for language learning]):
    Ionesco was inspired to write The Bald Soprano by the language used in this type of book.
