=== STOCK CLUES: Lope de Vega ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 27 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lope de Vega [or Lope de Vega y Fernandez; or Lope Felix de Vega y Carpio; accept any underlined portion]
  - In a play by this author, a villainous duke ties his new wife up under a white veil and tricks his son into stabbing her after finding out about the affair they had begun when he rescued her from an overturned coach.
  - A group of men are called "spinning women" and told to wear "headdresses and petticoats" in a monologue written by this author, which is delivered as a call to action by a disheveled woman.
  - In a play by this author, peasants urged on by Laurencia storm a citadel and kill the rapist Commander who had terrorized them, then refuse to name his killer when a judge arrives and tortures them.
  - This author of Punishment Without Revenge wrote some 1,500 plays, including a work set in the town of "Sheep Well." For 10 points, name this Spanish Golden Age dramatist of Fuenteovejuna . [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio
  - A poem by this author inspired the response "Letter to Belardo," written by an anonymous female poet under the alias Amarilis.
  - A woman created by this man asks an aggressive suitor whether he isn't satisfied with the flesh he already has, referring to copious gifts of meat he recently received.
  - In a plot resolution by this author, the servant Tristan fabricates a noble lineage for a secretary.
  - This man created a young man who steals a crossbow from a commander to prevent the commander from raping the woman he loves.
  - In a play by this author, Diana prevents the marriage of Teodoro to her maid in a nod to an Aesop fable.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Dog in the Manger and The Sheep Well, a prolific playwright of the Spanish Golden Age. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Felix Lope de Vega Carpio
  - The Duke discovers his bastard son's tryst with Casandra in this author's play Justice without Revenge.
  - In one play by this author, a servant snuffs out a candle with the toss of a hat to cover up his master's affair. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, a peasant steals a crossbow from awomanizing (*) commander attempting to rape the beautiful Laurencia. [PWR]
  - The Countess Diana marries Marcela's suitor Teodoro in this author's play The Dog in the Manger.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Sheep Well, a Golden Age Spanish playwright. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Lope de Vega
  - In one work by this author, Mengo explains that poetry is like a baker making doughnuts; some poems turn out fluffy, others get burnt.
  - This author caused controversy in his own day for believing that all tragedies should only be three acts long.
  - In one of his works, which takes its title from Aesop, the Countess Diana lusts after her secretary Teodoro.
  - Another of his works opens with the entrance of a knight from the Order of Calatrava before Laurencia, Jacinta and others murder him.
  - That work ends with King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella appearing to pardon an entire village, who repeatedly insist that the title entity committed a crime.
  - This author wrote The Dog in the Manger.
  - For 10 points, identify this author of Fuente Ovejuna, a prolific playwright of the Spanish Golden Age. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Felix Arturo Lope de Vega y Carpio
  - One of this author's plays sees the antagonist's crossbow grabbed while he attempts to rape a girl.
  - That man orders the arrest of Esteban and hanging of Frondoso so that he may have his way with Laurencia. [PWR]
  - In that play, which is set during ($) Ferdinand and Isabella's reign, when asked who killed the tyrannical Gomez de Guzman, all the villagers say the name of the title town. [PWR]
  - In another of this author's plays, Teodoro stops courting Marcela when he receives the attention of the Countess Diana, who, like a grain-hoarding canine in an (*) Aesop fable, refuses to let anyone have that which she does not take.
  - For ten points, identify this Spanish playwright of The Dog in the Manger and Fuenteovejuna. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The gracioso character of this play, Tristan, resolves the central point of honor by making up a string of nonsense Greek names and claiming that his master is actually from a family of Byzantine nobles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dog in the Manger [or The Gardener's Dog; or El Perro del Hortelano] (by Lope de Vega)):
    Name this Spanish Golden Age play in which the Countess Diana falls in love with her social inferior, Teodoro, and refuses to let him marry her lady-in-waiting. This play is titled for a Greek fable.
  Part 2 (ans: cloak and sword [or comedia de capa y espada; accept cloak and dagger]):
    The Dog in the Manger is one of Lope de Vega's many entries in this Golden Age genre. Double weddings, love triangles, and resourceful graciosos were features of this genre, which is named for its gallant costumes.
  Part 3 (ans: clown [or jester; or fool; or buffoon; or joker; accept comic relief; accept trickster; prompt on Zanni]):
    The gracioso represented this theatrical archetype in Spanish Golden Age drama, usually with the job of servant. In commedia dell'arte, Pierrot and Harlequin belong to this theatrical archetype.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about poetry of the Spanish Golden Age, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: feminine rhyme [or rima femenina]):
    Most Spanish Golden age poetry employs this type of rhyme, which involves the final two syllables of each line. In English, the words "fainting" and "painting" exhibit this type of rhyme.
  Part 2 (ans: Lope de Vega [or Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio]):
    Anthologies of Spanish Golden Age poetry almost invariably contain this author's "Sonnet Impromptu." This author is better known for being a prolific playwright of works like The Dog in the Manger and Fuenteovejuna, or The Sheep Well.
  Part 3 (ans: Garcilaso de la Vega [reject "de la Vega"]):
    This poet, not to be confused with a related historian, established the sonnet, lira, and silva as poetic forms in Spain. This author's twenty-third sonnet begins with the line "So long as of red rose and lily white."

[B3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: When investigated over the death of a commander, the residents of a village created by this author all claim that "Fuenteovejuna ("FWEN-tay-oh-veh-HOO-nuh") did it". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lope de Vega ("LO-pay de VAY-ga") [or Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio]):
    Name this author. Diana rejects many aristocratic suitors in a play by this author whose title alludes to a story traditionally attributed to Aesop where the title animal prevents horses from eating grain.
  Part 2 (ans: Spain [accept Spanish Golden Age]):
    Lope de Vega ("LO-pay de VAY-ga") was a playwright from this modern-day country. This country's Golden Age saw a fierce competition between the conceptismo ("kon-thep-TEEZ-moh") and culteranismo ("kool-teh-rah-NEEZ-moh") movements.
  Part 3 (ans: Valencia):
    A play by Lope de Vega titled for "The Widow from" this city features the title character choosing to have a secret affair instead of mourning her husband. In another play by Lope de Vega, Floriano and Erifila ("eh-ree-FEE-la") fall in love during their stay in this city's asylum.

[B4] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. While Altisodra is at the gates of hell, she witnesses two devils hit this book with a tennis racket, then shame its author for not being Cide Hamete [cee-day hah-meh-tay]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fake Don Quixote [accept descriptions of the anonymous Don Quixote sequel; accept The Second Tome of the Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of la Mancha or Segundo Tomo del Ingenioso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha]):
    Name this book whose mistakes, such as calling Teresa Panza "Fat Belly," caused an author to certify the death of one of his characters.
  Part 2 (ans: Lope de Vega [accept either underlined; accept Lope de Vega y Fernandez; accept Lope Felix de Vega y Carpio] (The unnamed play is fuente ovejuna, or The Sheep Well.)):
    Some scholars theorize the fake writer to be this contemporary of Cervantes, whom he called a "Monster of Nature." In a play by this author, villagers blame the death of a cruel Commander on a water fixture.
  Part 3 (ans: a donkey [accept an ass]):
    Gines de Pasamonte, a possible stand-in for the author of the anonymous Don Quixote sequel, steals one of these animals. Sancho Panza rides that animal, who is named Dapple and often disappears throughout the novel.

[B5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Before the premiere of one of his plays in Buenos Aires, this author gave a lecture about a concept that encompasses "everything that has dark sounds." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Federico Garcia Lorca):
    Name this Spanish author of that 1932 play, Blood Wedding.
  Part 2 (ans: duende (DWEN-day) [or "Theory and Play of the Duende"; or "Juego y teoria del duende"]):
    Lorca's play Blood Wedding exemplifies this heightened sense of emotion, whose name comes from a flamenco term, which Lorca addressed in a lecture titled for its "Theory and Play."
  Part 3 (ans: Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio [That play is The Sheep Well.]):
    Lorca's lecture referenced the "duende" present in this author's religious sonnets. The townsfolk insist the title water feature killed the Commander in one of this Spanish Golden Age author's 1,000-plus plays.

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in a novel by this author inadvertently confuses the name of his converso classmate with that of Pontius Pilate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francisco de Quevedo [or Francisco Gomez de Quevedo y Santibanez Villegas]):
    Name this author, who wrote about the protagonist running away with Don Diego to a boarding school owned by Cabra, who starves the students, in his novel El Buscon.
  Part 2 (ans: Lope de Vega [or Lope Felix de Vega Carpio]):
    Quevedo was friends with this other author, who called his lover Elena Osorio "Filis" in his poems. His plays include one where every villager says, while being tortured, that a cruel commander was killed by the town of fuenteovejuna ["fwen-tay oh-vay-hoo-nah"].
  Part 3 (ans: Latin [or The Craze for Speaking Latin; or La culta latiniparla]):
    While attacking culteranismo, Quevedo wrote a book called The Craze for Speaking [this language]. After failing to become a courtier, Quevedo found comfort in the Stoic works of Seneca, who wrote in this language.

[B7] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Playwright Aphra Behn said this fable can be summarized as "Thus aged lovers with young beautys live, keepe off the joys they want the power to give." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the dog in the manger):
    Name this fable in which a certain animal prevents others from using something it itself cannot use.
  Part 2 (ans: Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio):
    This other playwright wrote a play based on that fable in which a countess falls in love with her servant and prevents him from marrying his lover but also refuses to marry him herself.
  Part 3 (ans: Aesop):
    The dog in the manger fable is often attributed to this Ancient Greek collector of fables, but is not included in his original collection.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals Qualifier (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one play by this author, the Countess of Belfor falls for her secretary Teodoro and attempts to disrupt his romance with her servant Marcela. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lope de Vega [or Lope Felix de Vega Carpio]):
    Name this playwright whose comedias include The Dog in the Manger and Fuenteovejuna ("FWEN-tay-ooh-vey-hoo-nuh").
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of Spain):
    Along with Miguel de Cervantes, Lope de Vega is considered one of the leading figures of this country's Golden Age.
  Part 3 (ans: written in three acts [or three-act structure]):
    Lope de Vega's comedias differ from Renaissance tragedies in their rejection of Aristotelian unities and in their use of this structure. In the 20th century, Syd Field began using this structure to explain other media.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After escaping from the villain of this play's citadel, the peasant girl Laurencia leads a revolt against Commander Gomez, resulting in his banners being replaced with those of Ferdinand and Isabella. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fuente Ovejuna [or The Sheep Well]):
    Name this play, where 300 people are tortured by the order of a judge. Despite the torture, all 300 of those people proclaim that "[this play's title location] did it."
  Part 2 (ans: Lope de Vega [or Lope Felix de Vega y Carpio]):
    Fuente Ovejuna is the most popular out of the thousands of plays by this playwright. This Spanish Golden Age playwright also wrote The Dog in the Manger.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Juan):
    Golden Age playwright Tirso de Molina wrote The Trickster of Seville and the Stone Guest, which is a dramatization of this character's legend. This womanizer is killed by the statue-inhabiting ghost of Don Gonzalo.

[B10] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Mateo Aleman details his early life in this city in his picaresque novel Guzman de Alfarache. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seville [or Sevilla; accept El burlador de Sevilla y convidado de piedra or The Trickster of Seville or The Trickster of Seville and the Stone Guest; accept "playboy" or "seducer" in place of "trickster"]):
    Name this city where a young nobleman is killed by the ghost of Gonzalo. That title character of a play by Tirso de Molina is banished from this city when the King learns that Don Pedro lied about that character's identity.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Juan [accept Don Giovanni]):
    The Trickster of Seville is the first written account of this character, a legendary Spanish womanizer.
  Part 3 (ans: Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio):
    This other Spanish Golden Age playwright created the Comendador, who is murdered after tormenting the residents of the title town. This playwright of The Sheep Well also wrote The Dog in the Manger.

[B11] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about theatre in the Spanish Golden Age:
  Part 1 (ans: Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio [prompt on Lope, prompt on de Vega]):
    Goethe once wished he had been able to produce as "vast and colourful" an oeuvre as this playwright. Nicknamed The Phoenix of Wits by Cervantes, his best known works include Punishment Without Revenge, The Dog in the Manger, and Fuenteovejuna.
  Part 2 (ans: Tirsode Molina [accept either underlined section, or Fray Gabriel Tellez]):
    This Baroque dramatist is primarily known for writing The Trickster of Sevilleand the Stone Guest, the play from which the popular character of Don Juan originates. His work is also of particular significance due to the abundance of female protagonists, as well as the exploration of sexual issues.
  Part 3 (ans: Pedro Calderonde la Barca [or any version of his absurdly long name which includes Calderon]):
    This playwright's works, such as the Autos Sacramentales, usually show his vital pessimism, becoming extremely complex allegories of moral, philosophical and religious concepts. The anguish and distress usually found his oeuvre is best exemplified by the character of Segismundo in Life is a Dream.

[B12] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play ends with the murder of a commander of the Order of Calatrava. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fuenteovejuna):
    Name this play in which a rural community turns on that commander, who had been mistreating them. In order to save themselves from the magistrate, the villagers insist that the title village "did it". This ploy ends successfully when they are all pardoned.
  Part 2 (ans: Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio):
    Fuenteovejuna is by this prolific playwright who also wrote The Dog in the Manger among over a thousand other plays, as well as the novel The Pilgrim in his Own Country.
  Part 3 (ans: Spain):
    Lope de Vega was active during the Golden Age of culture in this country. Other major literary figures from this country's Golden Age include the poets Gongora, Quevedo and Calderon de la Barca.

[B13] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman in this play named Laurencia says that her ideal life would consist of eating a lot of food instead of being annoyed by men. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sheep Well [or Fuenteovejuna]):
    Name this play in which the inhabitants of the namesake town kill Commander Guzman after he tries to rape Laurencia and kill Frondoso. When faced with torture, everyone claims that the town itself killed the Commander.
  Part 2 (ans: Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio):
    Fuenteovejuna was written by this ridiculously prolific Spanish Golden Age playwright, who also wrote Fenisa's Hook and The Dog in the Manger.
  Part 3 (ans: Francisco de Quevedo [or Francisco Gomez de Quevedo y Santibanez Villegas]):
    Lope de Vega's Golden Age bros included this author of Los Suenos, a prominent poet who made enemies easily. This pioneer of the conceptismo had a long-running rivalry with the developer of culteranismo.

[B14] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The promiscuous woman Chispa dresses up as a male soldier and sings a marching song in this play, in which her lover Rebolledo helps the villain stage a fake fight to gain entry into an attic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mayor of Zalamea [or El Alcalde de Zalamea]):
    Name this play in which Pedro Crespo exacts revenge upon Don Alvaro for raping and not marrying his daughter Isabel.
  Part 2 (ans: Spain [or Reino de Espana; or Kingdom of Spain]):
    The Mayor of Zalamea was written by Pedro Calderon de la Barca during the "Golden Age" of this country's literature.
  Part 3 (ans: Lope de Vega [or Felix Lope de Vega y Carpio]):
    The character of Pedro Crespo was first created by this other Spanish Golden Age playwright, whose hundreds of plays include The Dog in the Manger and The Sheep Well.

[B15] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one story from this collection, a hospitalized man hears two dogs begin to talk at the stroke of midnight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Exemplary Novels (or Novelas ejemplares)):
    Name this collection written during Spain's Golden Age of literature which contains stories such as "Dialogue between Scipio and Berganza" and "The Lawyer of Glass."
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote (accept The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha or El ingenioso hidalgo don Quijote de la Mancha)):
    The author of the Exemplary Novels, Miguel de Cervantes, also wrote about this windmill-tilting knight who rides a skinny horse named Rocinante.
  Part 3 (ans: Garcilaso de la Vega (prompt on "Vega" but definitely do not accept things like "Lope de Vega")):
    This influential Golden Age poet brought Latin poetic forms to Spain and pioneered verse forms such as the estancia and lira when he wasn't busy serving as a soldier under Charles V.
