=== STOCK CLUES: Petronius ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Petronius [or Gaius Petronius Arbiter]
  - In an 1896 novel, this author's guests realize that "poetry and beauty" have died with this author, who tells his boss to "commit murder, but write no verses" in a letter he reads at a party just before his death.
  - In a book by this author, overzealous firemen allow the protagonist to escape from a party staffed by perpetually singing servants. [PWR]
  - In a novel, the slave Eunice commits suicide alongside this author, who intercedes to have a hostage placed under his nephew (*) Marcus's care. [PWR]
  - This author's time as "Arbiter of Elegance" was fictionalized in Henryk Sienkiewicz's  Quo Vadis.
  - Quartilla forces Giton and Encolpius to participate in an orgy in a novel by this author, who used a lavish feast given by Trimalchio to satirize Roman society.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Satyricon. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the poet Eumolpus ("yoo-MOHL-pus") narrates a "Milesian ("my-LEEZH-in") tale" about seducing his employer's son as a tutor in Pergamum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Satyricon [or Satyrica] (by Gaius Petronius)):
    Name this novel, in which stories about witches and a werewolf are told at a banquet held by a wealthy freedman.
  Part 2 (ans: the widow of Ephesus [or the matron of Ephesus; or matrona Ephesi]):
    In another embedded narrative from the Satyricon, this woman offers her husband's corpse to replace one that was stolen while her lover was on guard duty.
  Part 3 (ans: Vergil [or Publius Vergilius Maro]):
    In another story from the Satyricon, Trimalchio ("trim-ALL-kee-oh") recounts meeting the Cumaean ("koo-MEE-in") Sibyl, one of many of the novel's allusions to the sixth book of this poet's Aeneid ("ih-NEE-id").

[B2] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: After being tricked into drinking a sleep potion instead of poison, a woman from this city wakes up inside a tomb and decides to starve to death, but is freed by robbers who plunder the tomb's silver and gold. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ephesus):
    Identity this home city of Anthia and Habrocomes, who remain devoted to each other despite being separated and captured numerous times in a 2nd century AD Greek novel by a writer from here named Xenophon.
  Part 2 (ans: Tyre (the romance and the play are, respectively, Apollonius of Tyre and Pericles, Prince of Tyre)):
    The Ephesian Tale inspired an extremely similar Latin romance about a man from this city named Apollonius, which John Gower summarizes as an example of incest in his Confessio Amantis. Gower himself narrates a play in which a character from this city wins a tournament wearing rusty armor that had just washed up on shore.
  Part 3 (ans: Satyricon [by Petronius]):
    A widow from Ephesus sleeps with a soldier who finds her faithfully standing guard over her husband's corpse, in a story told in this other ancient novel best-known for its description of the Feast of Trimalchio.

[B3] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these things related to the comic novel Antic Hay, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Leonard Huxley):
    Antic Hay was written by this English author of Crome Yellow as well as Brave New World.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Petronius Arbiter):
    Antic Hay features what may be the first mistaken description of a vomitorium as a place to vomit in an allusion to the Satyricon, a novel by this Roman author.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    The title of Antic Hay comes from Edward II, a play by this author who also wrote about a conqueror who dies after burning a Qu'ran in another work.

[B4] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: If there was one literary genre the Romans didn't take from the Greeks, it was satire. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juvenal (Decimus Iunius Iuvenalis)):
    This poet's famous phrase quis custodiet ipsos custodies in context mocks the decline of womanly virtue, rather than government institutions. His 3rd Satire is all about the horrors of the foreigners packing Rome.
  Part 2 (ans: Martial (Marcus Valerius Martialis)):
    This poet's witty epigrams contain such noble advice as Ride, si sapis. He is also a notable literary source of Roman vulgarity, though he insisted "My poems are naughty, but my life is pure".
  Part 3 (ans: Petronius):
    This author's only known work is the first Roman novel that we have, the Satyricon, known for the Cena Trimalchionis. He may have been the fashion adviser of Nero.

[B5] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Mythology
     Leadin: In this book, Encolpius, Giton, and Eumolpus survive a shipwreck, after which Eumolpus proposes that he take the guise of an childless old man with massive amounts of wealth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Satyricon):
    Name this book in which Encolpius's killing of a sacred goose does little to cure his impotence. His ailment is eventually lessened after Encolpius sleeps with the daughter of Philomela.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Petronius Arbiter):
    The Satryicon was written by this author, who, according to Tacitus, committed suicide by opening his veins and instructing those around him to recite poetry.
  Part 3 (ans: dinners [or feasts; or meals; accept pretty much anything to do with people coming together to eat]):
    The best known scene from the Satyricon is at one of these events, hosted by Trimalchio. During one of these events from Oliver Twist, the protagonist asks "Please, sir, can I have some more."

[B6] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One character in this work owns a mural showing a dog with a chain on its neck that is accompanied with a sign that warns visitors to beware of the dog. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Satyricon [or Satyrica]):
    Name this book in which Encolpius seeks the help of Oenothea to cure his impotence in a ritual that occurs after he accidentally kills a goose. Perhaps its most notable portion contains an episode wherein Encolpius is shocked to eat a fertilized egg with a chicken inside of it.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Petronius Arbiter):
    This man is generally held to be the creator of Trimalchio and the author of the Satyricon.
  Part 3 (ans: The Widow of Ephesus [prompt on partial answer]):
    This character from the Satyricon is seduced by a soldier while mourning the loss of her husband, eventually agreeing to let her husband's body take the place of a condemned man's corpse so that the soldier is not punished for failing in his guard duties.
