=== STOCK CLUES: Schiller ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 50 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 33 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Answer: belief [or believing; accept disagreement before "Schiller"; accept belief without evidence; accept belief in God or religion; accept "The Ethics of Belief"; accept "The Will to Believe"; accept "The Fixation of Belief"; accept "Permission to Believe: Why Permissivism Is True and What It Tells Us About Irrelevant Influences on Belief"; prompt on having faith or being religious]
  - Miriam Schoenfield claimed we shouldn't worry about "irrelevant influences" on this action in a 2014 paper defending permissivism.
  - An essay defending this action, which inspired F. [PWR]
  - C. [PWR]
  - S. [PWR]
  - Schiller's argument that axioms are true because we need them to be, compares it to a man insisting that a woman loves him, thereby causing her to love him.
  - An essay condemns this action by noting that a shipowner who sends a rickety ship on a transatlantic voyage is blameworthy whether or not it sinks. [PWR]
  - An essay arguing for this action states, "'Do not (*) decide, but leave the question open' is itself a decision." A philosopher advocated doing this action to genuine options, which are living, forced, and momentous, in an 1896 lecture responding to W. [PWR]
  - K.
  - Clifford's essay on "The Ethics of [this action]." For 10 points, William James defended "The Will to" do what action, which titles a C. [GIVE]
  - S. [PWR]
  - Peirce  essay on its "Fixation"?

[T2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ancient Greece [or Hellas or the Hellenic culture; accept Greek gods or Greek mythology or muses; accept "The Gods of Greece"] (The first line describes Muses' Almanacs. The poem in the second line is Friedrich Holderlin's "Patmos." The censored poem is "The Gods of Greece" by Friedrich Schiller. The periodical is Athenaeum. The dichotomy is the Apollonian and Dionysian.)
  - Figures from this culture name a literary annual "almanac" that published the major output of the "ballad year" of 1797. [PWR]
  - A figure from this culture is "Near" yet "difficult to grasp" in a hymn titled for an island, written by the author of the elegy "The Archipelago." A 1788 poem that expresses nostalgia for this culture was censored for being anti-Christian.
  - This culture is referenced in the title of a literary periodical founded by August Wilhelm and Friedrich (*) Schlegel. [PWR]
  - Friedrich Holderlin's adoration of this culture inspired a dichotomy of artistic impulses named for two deities from this culture, which Nietzsche examined in The Birth of Tragedy.
  - For 10 points, the mythology of what classical culture inspired Goethe's poems "Ganymed" and "Prometheus"? [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Friedrich Schiller
  - One of this author's characters explains his father's love as "Pure vanity on his part, the besetting sin of all artists in love with their own work, however hideous." In a play by this author, a sword with the words "all-powerful Death dissolves your vow" written on it in blood is presented by a disguised character.
  - Men throw firebrands into a city's powder-magazine while rescuing Roller from the gallows in that play by this author, whose protagonist later upholds an (*) oath he made upon Roller's death by stabbing his betrothed Amelia.
  - This author penned a poem that describes how we enter "fire-drunk" into the "sanctuary" of the title "Daughter of Elysium." For 10 points, name this German author who wrote about the struggle between Karl and Franz Moor in The Robbers and who penned "Ode to Joy." [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 META (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Friedrich Schiller
  - This author explains how successful tragedies devise a moral conflict and a compelling emotional embracement of it in an essay arguing that humans derive pleasure from overcoming our own natures. [PWR]
  - An essay by this author contrasts how modern poets "touch us through ideas" while the title people "touch us through nature" before describing how Homer simply narrates facts and omits his own emotional response; that essay, which explains the separation between modern, rational humans and nature, is entitled "On Naive and Sentimental Poetry". [PWR]
  - "A desire to feel oneself put into a (*) state of passion" is said to have created the title phenomenon in one of this man's essays which argues that it "begins where the domain of secular law leaves off." The 17th chapter of Erich Auerbach's Mimesis discusses this author's play Intrigue and Love.
  - He described how the "form" and "sense" drives combined to create the "play" drive in a series of letters.
  - "Theatre Considered as a Moral Institution" was written by, for 10 points, what German Romantic author of "On the Aesthetic Education of Man"? [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller
  - This man wrote a historical drama about a sixteenth-century Genoese revolt, Fiesco, and collaborated with a friend on a series of distichs making fun of their critics, the Xenien [Zen-ee-ehn]. [PWR]
  - Lady Milford falls in love with the nobleman Ferdinand, who loves the middle-class musician's daughter Louise Miller, a romance both their parents scheme to stop, in this man's play (*) Love and Intrigue. [PWR]
  - Another of this author's characters swears allegiance to the men he leads after Roller and Schweizer die for him, but this conflicts with his love for Amalia.
  - For 10 points, name this German author who created the brothers Karl and Franz Moor in The Robbers, as well as the poem, "Ode to Joy." [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
  - In an essay, this author wondered at the pre-modern "dry truthfulness" with which Homer recorded the unequal value of the arms exchanged by Diomedes and Glaucus.
  - This author agonizes over his ill health and writer's block in Thomas Mann's story "Difficult Hour," which is based on his essay that distinguishes between naive and sentimental poetry.
  - This author responded to Kant's aesthetics in his Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Mankind.
  - As a playwright, he wrote the historical drama Mary Stuart and an early melodrama exemplifying the Sturm und Drang movement about the brothers Franz and Karl Moor.
  - For 10 points, name this German playwright of The Robbers who also wrote the poem "Ode to Joy." [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Friedrich Schiller
  - One poem by this writer recounts the stories of Orpheus and Aphrodite before One poem by this writer recounts the stories of Orpheus and Aphrodite before declaring that the gods and goddesses are crying; that poem begins "Even the beautiful must die". [PWR]
  - This author of (+) N¨anie [NAY-nee-uh] wrote a play in which Melchtal and a council representing three territories agree to postpone a revolt until Christmas.
  - In that play, John Parricida dresses as a monk to visit the title character, who had helped Baumgarten escape during a storm in (*) Ruodi's boat. [PWR]
  - This poet wrote "Every man becomes a brother/ Where thy gentle wings abide" in a work dedicated to the"daughter of Elysium".
  - The protagonist of the aforementioned play is imprisoned by Gessler for refusing to salute a hat on a pole despite shooting an apple from his son's head.
  - For ten points, name this writer of Ode to Joy and William Tell. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
  - One poem by this author laments that "no Caesar, no Achilles" appears on stage because the theater likes only what is "domestic and plain." This author of "Shakespeare's Ghost - A Parody" observed "Dearly I love a friend; yet a foe I may turn to my profit" and "Against stupidity, the gods themselves contend in vain." This author of "The Gods of Greece" wrote another poem describing "a mild sentence from the mouth of the final judge!" This author wrote about the doomed love of Ferdinand von Walter and Luise (*) Miller in his play Cabal and Love.
  - In another of his plays, Max Piccolomini (PICK-oh-low-ME-nee) goes to intercede on behalf of soldiers working for a commander who is aided by Illo and Terzky in secret negotiations with the Swedes.
  - Roller and Schweizer join the title group in a play by this man whose plot hinges on Franz Moor banishing his brother Karl.
  - For 10 points, name this German author of the Wallenstein trilogy and The Robbers. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
  - This author included a soliloquy about the "Fearful key, which locks behind me the prisonhouse of life" in a play in which a character picks up a guitar and sings a dialogue between Brutus and Caesar. [PWR]
  - Taking advantage of a superstition, one of this author's title characters freely paces the corridors of a castle in the mask and habit of a monk. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another play by this author refuses to harbor the murderer Duke John Parricida and personally ferries a fugitive across a stormy lake. [PWR]
  - The antagonist of that play by him commands everyone to bow before a (*) cap he places on a pole. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a play in which the title character seals his own fate by rejecting the Princess de Eboli, because he is in love with his father's wife Elizabeth of Valois, as well as one in which Amalia's murder further drives a wedge between the brothers Franz and Karl von Moor.
  - In his best-known play, a man foils Gessler by shooting an apple off his son's head.
  - For 10 points, name this author of historical plays such as Don Carlos, The Robbers, and William Tell. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character says, "First of all, forget about [the war]" at the beginning of a condensed translation by Robert Pinsky commissioned by the Shakespeare Theatre Company. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht von Wallenstein [or Albrecht Wenzel Eusebius von Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland; or Albrecht von Waldstein; accept the Wallenstein trilogy or Wallenstein's Camp or Wallensteins Lager]):
    Name this character who appears in a dramatic trilogy whose uncut form takes 10 hours to perform. That trilogy about this character includes The Piccolomini and a play about this character's "Camp."
  Part 2 (ans: The Robbers [or Die Rauber]):
    The author of the Wallenstein trilogy was inspired by Johann Anton Leisewitz's play Julius of Taranto to write this play. This Sturm und Drang play focuses on the conflict between the brothers Karl and Franz Moor.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    In 2008, Jason Grote adapted this author's play Maria Stuart into the play Maria/Stuart. This author of the Wallenstein trilogy wrote The Robbers and the poem "Ode to Joy."

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After an exhumation of a mass grave, the apparent remains of this author were claimed and taken home by a friend who decided the largest skull must be his. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller] (The trilogy is Wallenstein. The friend in the lead-in is Goethe.)):
    Name this author whose lost skull is the focus of a poem at the end of the Wilhelm Meister novel series. This author included The Piccolomini in a trilogy of plays about a 17th-century military leader.
  Part 2 (ans: Hamlet):
    The title character of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's Wilhelm Meister novels portrays this Shakespeare character, who rhapsodizes on the skull of his former jester Yorick.
  Part 3 (ans: Emilia Galotti [or Emilie Galotti]):
    After growing bored of Hamlet, Wilhelm's theater troupe puts on this Gotthold Ephraim Lessing play, a retelling of the myth of Virginia in which the title character is stabbed by her father Odoardo.

[B3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The season of Light is contrasted with the "boundless...dominion of the Night" in a poem by this author that asks, "Must the morning always return? Will the despotism of the earth never cease?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Novalis [or Georg Philipp Friedrich Freiherr von Hardenberg]):
    Name this author of Hymns to the Night. This author's title character Heinrich von Ofterdingen dreams about a blue flower, which in turn became a symbol of German Romanticism.
  Part 2 (ans: "Longing for Death" [or "Wanting to Die"; or "Sehnsucht nach dem Tode"; accept reasonable equivalents; prompt on longing or wanting or Sehnsucht; prompt on death or suicide or Tode] ("Wanting to Die" is by Anne Sexton, who symbolized suicides as carpenters.)):
    NOTE TO PLAYERS: DESCRIPTION ACCEPTABLE. The last of Novalis' six Hymns to the Night is titled for this sentiment. An American poem titled for this sentiment describes certain events as carpenters who consider "which tools" but "never ask why build."
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    While a student at the University of Jena ("YAY-nah"), Novalis was a student of this author of "Ode to Joy" and the play The Robbers.

[B4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Harro Hassenreuter gives acting lessons via choruses from a tragedy by this author in Gerhart Hauptmann's play The Rats. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller] (The play is The Robbers.)):
    The brothers Manuel and Cesar both fall in love with their sister Beatrice in what author's play The Bride of Messina? In another play by this author, Karl Moor joins the title outlaws after feuding with his brother Franz.
  Part 2 (ans: William Tell [or William Tell]):
    In another Schiller play, this character kills the tyrant Gessler while the latter is threatening the peasant woman Armgart. Gessler earlier makes this character shoot an apple off his own son's head after he fails to salute him.
  Part 3 (ans: Intrigue and Love [or Kabale und Liebe; or Cabal and Love; or Love and Intrigue; or Love and Politics]):
    President von Walter and his secretary Wurm devise a scheme involving a fake love letter to prevent a marriage in this Schiller tragedy. Ferdinand and his love Luise Miller both die by drinking poison at this play's end.

[B5] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A speech in which this character declares, "So slender is / The boundary that divideth life's two paths," introduced to one language a "winged word" that literally means "eternal yesterday." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht von Wallenstein [or Albrecht Wenzel Eusebius von Wallenstein or Albrecht von Waldstein; accept The Death of Wallenstein or Wallenstein's Death or Wallensteins Tod; accept Wallenstein's Camp or Wallensteins Lager] ("Ewig gestrige" literally means "eternal yesterday," and in adjectival form is used as something of a synonym for the English word "die-hard.")):
    Name this character whom the Irishmen Gordon and Butler murder at the end of a play. A trilogy of plays about this character opens with a one-act prologue titled for their "Camp."
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller] (The original aphorism is "die Axt im Haus erspart den Zimmermann.")):
    This author of Wallenstein coined the aphorism "the axe in the house spares the carpenter" in William Tell.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Song of the Bell" [or "Das Lied von der Glocke"]):
    This Schiller poem introduced the Classical phrase "eye of the law" into German. This "thought-poem" opens with the motto "Vivos voco. Mortuos plango. Fulgura frango."

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Francis Hutcheson linked this concept to moral goodness and believed it was a real property of an object, which we contemplate with an "internal sense." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beauty):
    Name this concept, which Edmund Burke contrasted with the sublime. In the Phaedra, Socrates claims that all men desire this concept and connects it with the good and divine.
  Part 2 (ans: David Hume):
    Similar to Hutcheson, this Scottish thinker's Treatise on Human Nature heavily linked beauty and ugliness with good and bad ethics. This thinker also wrote An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding.
  Part 3 (ans: German [or Deutsch] (Those thinkers are Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten and Frederich Schiller.)):
    Aesthetica, the text that coined the term aesthetics and developed an idea of good and bad taste, was written in this language. Another thinker using this language argued that greater appreciation of art could curb "lawless instincts" in Letters in Aesthetic Education.

[B7] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author denounced rumors that he was secretly a member of the Illuminati in letters about one of his plays, which ends with the Marquis of Posa dying for Dutch liberty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    Name this German playwright who wrote Don Carlos and the poem "Ode to Joy."
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Stuart [or Maria Stuart]):
    This Schiller play begins with the jailer Paulet breaking into the protagonist's desk. The protagonist of this play confronts her cousin and rival in a park outside her prison.
  Part 3 (ans: Wallenstein [or Albrecht von Wallenstein or Albrecht Wenzel Eusebius von Wallenstein or Albrecht Vaclav Eusebius z Valdstejna]):
    The Piccolomini is the second play in a trilogy by Schiller titled for this Bohemian general. Macdonald and Devereux assassinate this character after his plan to enter an alliance with the Swedes is uncovered.

[B8] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This man metaphorically "fell helpless and broken on his knees before the Christian cross" according to an essay titled "How I Got Rid of [this man]." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Wagner ("REE-kard VOG-nur") [or Wilhelm Richard Wagner]):
    Name this man who was also criticized as "a symptom of nihilism" in a book subtitled "A Musician's Problem." This person wrote that only a "total" artwork could reestablish art's community role in his Zurich writings.
  Part 2 (ans: tragedy [accept The Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music or Die Geburt der Tragodie aus dem Geiste der Musik]):
    The Case of Wagner ("VOG-nur") was a reversal from Friedrich Nietzsche's ("NEE-chuhz") earlier praise of Wagner in a book titled for the "birth of" this form of drama often contrasted with comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: Freidrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich Schiller]):
    This other German thinker explained tragedy as when "our sensuous nature feels its limitations, but our rational nature feels its superiority." This thinker asserted that the two title concepts bridge morality and aesthetics in the essay "On Grace and Dignity."

[B9] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, the protagonist shoots a ship captain in the calf during a duel because he believes the captain killed his father, but later learns that his father was saved by the captain's slave-boy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sturm und Drang [or Storm and Stress]):
    Name this play that follows the son of Lord Bushy, who goes by the alias Wild. This play, whose backdrop is set during the American Revolution, ends with Blasius leaving his friends La Feu and Karl to become a hermit.
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [Johann Christoph Friedrich Schiller]):
    Friedrich Klinger's play Sturm und Drang lends its name to a German literary movement that this author's play The Robbers belongs to. This author also wrote William Tell.
  Part 3 (ans: Intrigue and Love [or Cabal and Love; or Love and Intrigue; or Love and Politics; or Kabale und Liebe]):
    This other Sturm und Drang tragedy by Friedrich Schiller ends with Ferdinand scorning his father, President Walter, while dying from the poison that he and his lover Luise Miller drank.

[B10] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel set during this war opens with a tightrope walker playing a trick on some townspeople that causes them to fight over their shoes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thirty Years' War [or Dreissigjahriger Krieg]):
    Name this war during which Daniel Kehlmann's novel Tyll is set. In a play set during this war, a mother tells her daughter to avoid falling for soldiers after hearing the prostitute Yvette sing "The Fraternization Song."
  Part 2 (ans: Bertolt Brecht [or Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht]):
    This author wrote about Anna Fierling's family and their struggles during the Thirty Years' War in Mother Courage and Her Children. This playwright's other "epic theater" dramas include The Threepenny Opera.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    This other author wrote a trilogy of history plays about the Thirty Years' War general Albrecht von Wallenstein and his betrayal by Ottavio Piccolomini. This German author wrote the play William Tell.

[B11] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A myth that Cosimo I de' Medici's son accidentally murdered his own brother inspired the play Don Garzia by this author, who also dramatized the life of Scipio Africanus in Sofonisba. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Count Vittorio Alfieri [or il conte Vittorio Amedeo Alfieri]):
    Name this author whose elaborately-plotted revenge tragedies include Rosmunda. The dramas Octavia, Saul, Myrrha and Timoleone are by this prolific 18th-century "father of Italian tragedy."
  Part 2 (ans: Alcestis [or Alceste; or Alcesti]):
    Alfieri's two-part retelling of this play was posthumously published. The City Dionysia awarded second place to this Euripides play, whose title character agrees to die in place of her husband Admetus.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip II of Spain [or Filippo Secondo di Spagna; or Filippo d'Asburgo; or Felipe Segundo; accept "el Prudente"; accept Philip I of Portugal or Filipe I of Portugal] (The other play is Schiller's Don Carlos.)):
    Alfieri wrote a political drama about the fictional suicide of this real ruler. In a Schiller play, this king shares a dream of his palace on fire with Count Lerma, who becomes the confidante of his traitorous son.

[B12] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the appearance of Mary Stuart in European literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Vittorio Amedeo Alfieri):
    Lord Darnley is dubbed Arrigo in Maria Stuarda in a play by this Italian dramatist, better known for a play in which the title character kills himself after hearing about the approaching Philistine army, entitled Saul.
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    Mortimer kills himself after his plan to rescue Mary Stuart from the prison is discovered in a play by this German playwright, better known for Die Rauber (ROY-ber).
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Brodsky):
    The lovesick speaker "tried shooting myself, but it is so complicated/with the weapons." in the sixth of this author's Twenty Sonnets to Mary, Queen of Scots. He may be better known for the collection A Part of Speech.

[B13] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Fyodor compares Dmitri to this character in The Brothers Karamazov. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Franz Moor):
    This character complains "Must...my projects bend to the iron yoke of a mechanical system?" when considering how to murder his father. He also tries to seduce his brother's lover Amalia.
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Schiller):
    Franz Moor and his brother Karl were created by this German author of Wallenstein and William Tell.
  Part 3 (ans: The Robbers [or Die Rauber]):
    The idealistic Karl Moor becomes an arsonist and opposes his rationalist brother Franz in this sturm und drang play. In this work, Karl ties himself to a tree and demand his men turn him in after killing his lover.

[B14] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This thinker postulated four theories, including a "sensuous-objective theory" of the title subject, in his Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Friedrich von Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    Name this German author of the Kallias letters who also wrote the play Mary Stuart.
  Part 2 (ans: beauty [or the beautiful; prompt on synonyms]):
    Schiller's letters, like a lot of aesthetics, focused on this quality. This concept, which can be defined as aesthetic appeal, is contrasted with the sublime in the works of Edmund Burke.
  Part 3 (ans: play [accept play drive or Spieltrieb; prompt on "Structure, Sign, and Play"]):
    The Aesthetic Letters postulate a "drive" named for this concept and suggest that man is "only fully a human being" when he engages in it. In another context, Jacques Derrida suggested that this concept can manipulate signs via the "movement of supplementarity."

[B15] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character created by this author cries in the bathroom after his bride first returns to his house, since she immediately started throwing his books on the floor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elias Canetti):
    Name this author, who in that novel wrote of Peter Kien, a retiring philologist whose obsession with his 25,000-volume private library eventually leads to him going mad, and burning both his books and his wife in a massive fire.
  Part 2 (ans: Candide):
    In another instance of literary immolation, following the Lisbon earthquake, Dr. Pangloss appears to have been killed in an auto-da-fe in this novella by Voltaire. The title character seeks out "the best of all possible worlds," but is continually stymied.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Schiller):
    This author adapted the legend of Joan of Arc's burning at the stake in an 1801 tragedy. He wrote Don Carlos and The Robbers.

[B16] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some German language playwrights whose work had intersections with classical music, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe):
    Beethoven wrote the overture music to this man's play Egmont, though he is better known for a play in which an elderly scholar sells his soul to Mephistopheles, his two part play Faust.
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Schiller):
    This contemporary of Goethe wrote historically inspired plays like Wallenstein's Camp and The Robbers. Speaking of Beethoven, this guy also wrote the lyrics to Ode to Joy.
  Part 3 (ans: Karl Georg Buchner):
    Several French revolutionaries are guillotined in this other German's Danton's Death. He also wrote the play that was the basis for Alban Berg's opera Wozzeck.

[B17] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This work's title character describes seeing "freely under all the heavens" to his son Walter, explaining that "the corn grows in long, beautiful valleys and the land looks like a garden." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wilhelm Tell [accept William Tell]):
    Name this work about the rivalry between the tyrant Gessler and the title character. The title character ultimately shoots Gessler with a bow and arrow, upon which the liberated peasants call him their "shield and saviour".
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller):
    Wilhelm Tell is a play by this German author, a Weimar Classicist like his friend Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.
  Part 3 (ans: Demetrius):
    This other Schiller play was left as an incomplete fragment upon his death. This play is based on the life of the title character, who was briefly Russian Tsar in 1604, and declares to the Polish diet that he is the son of Ivan the Terrible.

[B18] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Counts Terzky and Illo trick a group of drunk soldiers into signing an oath of loyalty to this man, rather than to the emperor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht von Wallenstein):
    Name this character who is assassinated by Macdonald and Deveroux in his bedroom after his betrayal by General Piccolomini.
  Part 2 (ans: (Joseph Christoph) Friedrich von Schiller):
    The Wallenstein trilogy is by this German poet and playwright, whose other politically and historically-themed plays include The Maid of Orleans and William Tell. He also penned the poem "Ode to Joy."
  Part 3 (ans: Letters on the Aesthetic Education of Man [or Letters Upon the Aesthetic Education of Man; or Uber die asthetische Erziehung des Menschen; accept Aesthetical in place of "Aesthetic" in any translation; also accept Aesthetic Letters, as they are conventionally called that for short]):
    In this epistolary work addressed to Friedrich Christian II of Denmark, Schiller introduces the concept of "play drive," which reconciles the conflicting impulses of "sense drive" and "form drive."

[B19] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this book legendarily escaped from Nazi Germany without any of his books, leading him to write it without direct reference to any of the texts he was discussing. For 10 points,
  Part 1 (ans: Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in Western Literature):
    Name this work, described by biographer Harry Levin as an "imaginary museum," the magnum opus of literary critic Eric Auerbach. It begins with a chapter on "Odysseus' Scar."
  Part 2 (ans: Turkey):
    Mimesis was written during during World War II while Auerbach was living in this country. A contemporary author from this country wrote about a well-digger's romance with a travelling actress in his 2017 novel The Red-Haired Woman, the follow up to A Strangeness in my Mind.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Schiller):
    The only other German writer analyzed in Mimesis is this author, whose play Intrigue and Love forms the basis of the 17th chapter. This author also wrote William Tell.

[B20] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem exhorts "Suffer on, courageous millions! Suffer for a better world!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Ode to Joy"):
    Name this German Romantic poem, which addresses "thou beauteous godly lightning, Daughter of Elysium" that "coaxes flowers from the buds" and "drives the wheel."
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich von Schiller):
    "Ode to Joy" was written by this author of plays such as The Robbers, The Bride of Messina and Wallenstein.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Song of the Bell" [or "The Lay of the Bell"; or "Das Lied von der Glocke"]):
    This Schiller poem details the creation of the title object, which is cast in wax, filled in the ground, released from its mold, and named Concordia. It describes the destruction of a fire and a peaceful evening.

[B21] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this work is told by Pastor Moser that patricide and fratricide are the greatest sins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Robbers):
    Name this play about Karl Moor, who joins the title group after having been disinherited in favor of his brother Franz.
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller):
    The Robbers is a play by this German author of William Tell.
  Part 3 (ans: apple):
    The title protagonist of William Tell is an archer who is forced by the tyrannical official Gessler to shoot one of these fruits from the top of his son's head.

[B22] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This work asks "what living, sentient thing loves not the all-joyous light?" and calls its title subject "holy, unspeakable, mysterious." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hymns to the Night [or Hymnen an die Nacht]):
    Name this work in six parts, which claims that "everlasting and boundless is the dominion of" the title concept and ends with a section called "Longing for Death."
  Part 2 (ans: Novalis):
    Hymns to the Night was written by this author of Heinrich von Ofterdingen, who created the German Romantic symbol of the blue flower.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Schiller):
    Foods named for this German Romantic author's curly hair include types of cream-filled pastries and smoked dogfish belly flaps. He might be slightly better known for his works The Robbers, William Tell, and Ode to Joy.

[B23] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: In one of its many passages on "seriousness," this book claims that "poetry will never rise to the level of seriousness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Homo Ludens):
    Name this 1938 book, the central concept of which is analyzed in law, philosophy, and art, and which is said to have declined in culture due to the rise of total warfare. Its author also wrote The Autumn of the Middle Ages.
  Part 2 (ans: (Carl) Jacob (Christoph) Burckhardt):
    The author of Homo Ludens, Johan Huizinga, was a disciple of this Swiss historian, who popularized the term "Renaissance" with his The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    Surprisingly, Huizinga barely cites this author's account of the "play-drive" from On the Aesthetic Education of Man. This 18th-century German wrote the plays The Robbers and Wallenstein, and the poem "Ode to Joy."

[B24] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Ernst Rietschel sculpted a monument to these two authors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller [accept Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller in place of "Friedrich Schiller"]):
    Name these authors who collaborated on the collection Xenien, which was a response to their critics.
  Part 2 (ans: Weimar):
    The aforementioned monument is in this city, which lends its name to a literary movement started by Goethe and Schiller, among others.
  Part 3 (ans: Faust):
    Goethe wrote this two-part play about a scholar who sells his soul to the devil.

[B25] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character with this last name kills his fiancee Amalia after being forced into a life of brigandy in Bohemia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Moor):
    Name this surname shared by Karl and Franz, the main characters of The Robbers.
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]):
    "This German author of The Robbers and William Tell addressed a "daughter of Elysium" in "Ode to Joy."
  Part 3 (ans: salute a hat [or obvious equivalents; prompt on salute]):
    In William Tell, the title hero is arrested after failing to perform this action in obeisance to the governor.
