=== STOCK CLUES: Elena Ferrante ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 29 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elena Ferrante
  - One of this author's characters is detested "the way you detest a lizard that runs up your bare leg." Another of this author's characters is told that she is "getting the face of" the first character, whose face is blacked out in all of their family photos.
  - A long friendship between two of this author's other characters ends when one writes a book about the disappearance of another's child. [PWR]
  - This author closed the final novel in which those characters appear with the delivery of a package containing the dolls (*) Tina and Nu. [PWR]
  - In another of this author's novels, one character marries the son of Don Achille instead of Marcello, who broke Lenu's bracelet.
  - This author who wrote about Lila in The Story of the Lost Child has been variously identified as Marcella Marmo, Anita Raja, and Anita Raja's husband.
  - For 10 points, name the pseudonym used to publish the Neapolitan Novels series, which includes My Brilliant Friend. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elena Ferrante [prompt on Anita Raja]
  - A character created by this author is punished when activists print a speech she gave about the brutal conditions she faces at a sausage factory.
  - At a New Year's party, a woman created by this author first feels "the outlines of things and people" disappear, a sensation she calls "dissolving margins." At her wedding, a woman created by this author notices that the shoes she gifted her fiance are being worn by another man.
  - In that novel by this author, two girls throw each other's dolls into the basement of the loan shark Don Achille .
  - The novel Those Who Leave and Those Who Stay is the third in a series about Lenu and Lila written by this author, who may be the translator Anita Raja.
  - For 10 points, the novel My Brilliant Friend is the first of what pseudonymous Italian author's Neapolitan Novels? [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Elena Ferrante [glare at them and prompt on Marcella Marmo, Domenico Starnone or Anita Raja before mentioned]
  - A character created by this author is disappointed when people in her neighbourhood are only interested in the sexual passages from a book she has written.
  - Another novel by this author closes with the protagonist being mailed two dolls that she had failed to retrieve from a loan shark.
  - Another of this author's characters is thrown through a glass window by her father for taking the middle school exam.
  - In a novel by this author, the teacher Maestra Oliviero encourages the protagonist not to associate with 'plebs' like the prodigy Lila.
  - Speculation surrounding this author has connected their identity to Anita Raja, among others.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included The Story of a New Name and My Brilliant Friend in their Neapolitan Novels. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elena Ferrante
  - A character created by this author describes the lesson of Joyce's Ulysses to her former elementary school teacher as "that we want only to eat, drink, fuck." A character created by this author gets a grueling job in a pastrami factory from Bruno, the friend of a student she had an affair with while on a summer vacation in Iskia. [PWR]
  - This author described growing up as the child of a seamstress in the memoir Frantumaglia. [PWR]
  - All of the English translations of this author's novels were done by New Yorker editor Ann Goldstein. [PWR]
  - A piece of investigative reporting in the (*) New York Review of Books by Claudio Gatti revealed that this author may be Anita Raja, a Rome-based translator. [PWR]
  - This author's best known works center on the relationship between the narrator and Lila.
  - For 10 points, name this pseudonymous author of My Brilliant Friend, the first of her Neapolitan novels. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Elena Ferrante [or Anita Raja until it is read]
  - A character created by this author orders her daughter to slash her with a paper-cutter whenever she succumbs to depression, which prevents her from getting treatment for her poisoned German shepherd Otto.
  - At the end of one of this author's novels, the dolls Tina and Nu are mail-delivered to a character who lost them by throwing them in the basement of a loan shark gang.
  - This author employed a technique called "dissolving boundaries" to represent the consciousness of a character who experiences the sky as "poisoned egg stars." The protagonist of a novel by this author throws a friend's notebooks into the Arno, in reference to Manzoni.
  - That character, Lenu Greco, competes with her friend Lila across a quartet of novels that begins with My Brilliant Friend.
  - This author of The Days of Abandonment may have been "unmasked" as the translator Anita Raja by Claudio Gatti in October of 2016.
  - For 10 points, give the pseudonym of this author, a contemporary Italian woman who wrote the Neapolitan Novels. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman with this first name recounts her unraveling life in diary entries after learning of her husband's affair in the title story from The Woman Destroyed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Monique [accept Monique Wittig]):
    Identify this first name of an author who created a tribe of warrior women that fight a war of the sexes with knives and rifles in her lesbian feminist novel Les Guerilleres("leh gay-ree-YAIR").
  Part 2 (ans: Simone de Beauvoir ("boh-VWAR") [or Simone Lucie Ernestine Marie Bertrand de Beauvoir] (The magnum opus is The Second Sex.)):
    Monique Wittig often drew on this author of The Woman Destroyed, such as adapting the opening line of her magnum opus for the lecture, "One is Not Born a Woman."
  Part 3 (ans: Elena Ferrante [prompt on Anita Raja]):
    Olga resolves to not be like either The Woman Destroyed or the "poor woman" after her husband unexpectedly leaves her in this author's novel The Days of Abandonment, which her book Frantumaglia("fran-too-MAHL-yuh") discusses along with allusions to "dissolving margins."

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Europa Editions published four novels by this author with controversially tacky covers showing people's backs as they face the ocean. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Name this author whose novel The Story of the Lost Child ends with a woman receiving two long-lost dolls in the mail.
  Part 2 (ans: Ann Goldstein):
    This former New Yorker editor has been Elena Ferrante's English translator since 2005. This person has also translated Pier Paolo Pasolini's Street Kids and Elsa Morante's Arturo's Island.
  Part 3 (ans: shoes [accept baby shoes]):
    In Ferrante's My Brilliant Friend, Lila marries Stefano in part to help finance her project designing these objects. Hemingway apocryphally wrote a six-word story about some of these objects "For sale ... never worn."

[B3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: These two characters own the dolls Tina and Nu, and confront the loan shark Don Achille to accuse him of stealing them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena "Lenu" Greco and Raffaella "Lila" Cerrullo [accept Elena Greco for "Lenu"; accept Raffaella Cerrullo for "Lila"]):
    Name both these central characters of the Neapolitan Novels. One of these two girls is the narrator of the quartet, while the other is her genius friend who becomes a computer programmer.
  Part 2 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Although many debate her actual identity, this is the pen name used by the author of the Neapolitan Novels, including My Brilliant Friend.
  Part 3 (ans: Marie NDiaye):
    This author of the play Papa Doit Manger has, on at least one occasion, been called the "French African Elena Ferrante." She became the first Black woman to win the Prix Goncourt with her novel Three Strong Women.

[B4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Two answers required. An author from one of these two countries set a novel in the other in which a girl falls in love with a Japanese soldier after playing go with him in the town square. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: China AND France [accept Zhongguo in place of "China"] (The novel in the lead-in is Shan Sa's The Girl Who Played Go; the play is Gao Xingjian's Bus Stop.)):
    Name these two countries. A writer from one of these two countries was exiled to the other after writing a play in which characters like Hothead, Glasses, and the Carpenter discuss why they're waiting at the title location.
  Part 2 (ans: Honore de Balzac [or Honore Balzac; accept Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress]):
    Two boys read French literature in a labor camp in a Dai Sijie novel titled for this author and the Little Chinese Seamstress. This author included Pere Goriot and Cousin Bette in the cycle The Human Comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Two French girls devise a literary hoax together in Yiyun Li's The Book of Goose, which has earned it comparisons to this Italian author's depiction of Lenu and Lila's friendship in the Neapolitan Novels.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Guardian article, Sally Rooney described an author from this country's writing as a "very important secret that [she] had been waiting all [her] life to discover." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Italy [or Italia] (All Our Yesterdays is by Natalia Ginzburg. Ann Goldstein has translated Elena Ferrante, among others.)):
    Name this country home to an author who wrote about Anna's experiences in World War II in the novel All Our Yesterdays. Ann Goldstein has translated many novels from this country's language to English.
  Part 2 (ans: Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna "Jhumpa" Lahiri]):
    Goldstein translated a collection of essays by this author titled In Other Words. This Indian-American author now writes only in Italian, but her English-language output includes The Namesake and Interpreter of Maladies.
  Part 3 (ans: Primo Levi [accept Damiano Malabaila]):
    In 2015, Goldstein completed a three-volume translation of this author's work, including a memoir about the horrors of Auschwitz titled If This Is a Man.

[B6] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: After several patrons fall ill in a nightclub, this "magniloquent spoony" writer realizes that he is boring them to death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Less [or Arthur Less]):
    Identify this mediocre author and title character of a 2017 novel who accepts a series of visiting professorships and speaking gigs to avoid the wedding of his ex-lover.
  Part 2 (ans: Pulitzer Prizes [accept Pulitzer Prize for Fiction]):
    Another of Arthur Less's lovers, the Russian River School poet Robert Brownburn, wins one of these awards. In the real world, Andrew Sean Greer's novel Less won one of these awards, which are named for the owner of the New York World.
  Part 3 (ans: Italian [or italiano] (The Story of the Lost Child is the last entry in the Neapolitan Novels by Elena Ferrante.)):
    A "super translation" into this language makes one of Less's novels much better received than the English edition. Ann Goldstein has translated novels such as The Story of the Lost Child from this language.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author wrote this language "covers me like a kind of bark" in an article which compares learning this language to Daphne's transformation into a tree. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Italian [or lingua italiana; accept "Teach Yourself Italian"]):
    Name this language. In an article on learning this language, that author calls English a "sense of failure that is the source of almost all my anxiety" as part of their explanation for no longer writing in English.
  Part 2 (ans: Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]):
    This author discussed their decision to write only in the title language in "Teach Yourself Italian." Previously, this author used English to write Interpreter of Maladies.
  Part 3 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Ann Goldstein, who translated "Teach Yourself Italian" into English, also translated this author. This pseudonymous author, who is suspected of being Anita Raja, wrote the Neapolitan Novels.

[B8] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel set in this city, a character is thrown through a glass window by her father after secretly taking a middle school placement exam. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naples [or Napoli; prompt on Neapolitan Novels]):
    Name this city, the setting of a series of novels whose elderly protagonist reminisces about her childhood friend Lila, who has disappeared after contributing to an expose of the Solara crime family.
  Part 2 (ans: Elena Ferrante [accept Anita Raja until read]):
    This author's breakout success My Brilliant Friend is the first entry in her Neapolitan Novels. In 2016, Claudio Gatti revealed that this pseudonymous author was actually the retired librarian Anita Raja.
  Part 3 (ans: dolls):
    The Neapolitan Novels end mysteriously with Elena receiving two of these objects in the mail that Elena and Lila lost as children after throwing them into the cellar of the town madman, Don Achille.

[B9] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each-answer the following about controversial author attributions in literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Marlowe):
    In 2016, the New Oxford Shakespeare made headlines for using "big data" to attribute the Henry VI plays to this playwright in collaboration with Shakespeare. This man wrote The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
  Part 2 (ans: Primary Colors):
    Donald Foster, who is best-known for his work on Shakespeare authorship, also used stylometry to identify this anonymous bestseller as the work of Joe Klein. This roman a clef is about Bill Clinton's first presidential campaign.
  Part 3 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Textual analysis programs have recently re-reattributed the novels of this author to Domenico Starnone, whose novels Ties and Trick were translated into English by Jhumpa Lahiri. Others believe that this author's works were written by Starnone's wife, Anita Raja.

[B10] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by this author begins when Lila's son rings Elena about Lila's disappearance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Identify this author who wrote a set of four novels entitled the Neapolitan Novels, the last of which centres on Elena's relationship with Nino. This author's identity was a secret for a long time.
  Part 2 (ans: Italian):
    Elena Ferrante is a novelist who writes in this language. Other novelists who wrote in this language include Alberto Moravia and Alessandro Manzoni.
  Part 3 (ans: The Story of a New Name):
    This second novel in the Neapolitan Novels series involves the souring of Lila's marriage to Stephano and her subsequent affair with Nino.

[B11] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A series by this author ends with the narrator receiving two dolls in the mail which she and her friend had thrown away. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Name this reclusive Italian author who wrote about her friendship with Lila and her escape from a poor neighborhood in the Neapolitan Novels. She is possibly the translator Anita Raja.
  Part 2 (ans: brilliant [accept My Brilliant Friend or My Brilliant Career]):
    The first of the Neapolitan Novels describes the precocious Lila as "my [this adjective] friend". A Miles Franklin novel describes the writing career of the independent-minded Sybylla Melvyn with this adjective.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This other modern Italian author wrote about a geographically-encoded labyrinthine library that burns down during the investigations of William of Baskerville and Adso of Melk in The Name of the Rose.

[B12] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author has asserted that "books, once they are written, have no need of their authors." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    This year, a controversial article by Claudio Gatti claimed to identify translator Anita Raja as this elusive pseudonymous best-selling author of La Frantumaglia.
  Part 2 (ans: Luther Blissett):
    This other pseudonym was used to publish the 1999 Italian novel Q, set during the Protestant Reformation. This nom-de-plume has been repeatedly reused by authors and artists, becoming an "open pop star."
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This Italian author sometimes used the pseudonym Dedalus, but used his own name for works like Faith in Fakes: Travels in Hyperreality, Serendipities, Six Walks in the Fictional Woods, and, most recently, Numero Zero.

[B13] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This city is the setting for three novels about the friendship of Elena and Lila, including My Brilliant Friend and The Story of a New Name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naples):
    Name this southern Italian city with a distinctive namesake dialect, the setting for much of the work of a popular reclusive female writer. This city is ruled by King Alonso in Shakespeare's The Tempest.
  Part 2 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    That popular writer is this pseudonymous woman, whose "Neapolitan novels" include the aforementioned My Brilliant Friend and The Story of a New Name.
  Part 3 (ans: The Days of Abandonment):
    This best-known novel by Elena Ferrante opens with the sentence "One April afternoon, right after lunch, my husband announced that he wanted to leave me." It concerns Olga's mental breakdown after the dissolution of her marriage.
