"My Last Duchess"	Victorian Literature	Robert Browning's dramatic monologue in which a duke reveals, unwittingly, that he had his wife killed.
"Oxen of the Sun"	Modernism & the World Wars	Episode of Joyce's Ulysses parodying the history of English prose style, set in a maternity hospital.
"Ozymandias"	Romanticism	Shelley's sonnet on a shattered desert statue of a once-mighty king, mocking the futility of tyrannical pride.
"Porphyria's Lover"	Victorian Literature	Robert Browning's dramatic monologue in which a man strangles his lover with her own hair to preserve the moment.
"Portrait of a Lady"	Modernism & the World Wars	T. S. Eliot's early poem depicting a stifling, one-sided drawing-room relationship.
"Rabbi Ben Ezra"	Victorian Literature	Robert Browning's dramatic monologue affirming old age, opening "Grow old along with me!"
"Resolution and Independence"	Romanticism	Wordsworth's poem in which an old leech-gatherer's stoic endurance steadies the poet's despair.
"Shall I compare thee to a Summer's day?"	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Opening line of Shakespeare's Sonnet 18, praising a beloved's beauty as more lasting than a summer's day.
"Sredni Vashtar"	Modernism & the World Wars	Saki's dark short story of a sickly boy who worships a ferret as a vengeful god against his guardian.
"Tam O'Shanter"	Romanticism	Robert Burns's Scots-dialect narrative poem of a drunk farmer chased by witches after spying their revel.
"Terence, This is Stupid Stuff"	Victorian Literature	A. E. Housman poem defending melancholy verse's value, comparing poetry to Mithridates's gradual self-poisoning.
"The Ballad of Reading Gaol"	Victorian Literature	Oscar Wilde's poem written after his imprisonment, mourning a fellow inmate hanged for murder.
"The Charge of the Light Brigade"	Victorian Literature	Tennyson's poem honoring the doomed cavalry charge into the "valley of Death" at Balaclava.
"The English Mail Coach"	Romanticism	Thomas De Quincey's essay evoking the speed and sublime terror of nighttime mail-coach travel.
"The Garden"	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Andrew Marvell's meditative poem preferring solitary garden contemplation to romantic and social pursuits.
"The Highwayman"	Modernism & the World Wars	Alfred Noyes's narrative poem of a doomed romance between a highwayman and an innkeeper's daughter.
"The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner"	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Alan Sillitoe's story of a borstal boy who deliberately loses a race to defy the institution's authority.
"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"	Modernism & the World Wars	T. S. Eliot's poem of a hesitant, self-doubting speaker who dares not "disturb the universe."
"The Man Who Would Be King"	Victorian Literature	Kipling's story of two adventurers who set themselves up as kings in a remote part of Afghanistan-Kafiristan.
"The Pardoner's Tale"	Middle English Literature	Chaucer's Canterbury tale of three revelers who find death by greedily fighting over gold.
"The Secret Sharer"	Modernism & the World Wars	Joseph Conrad's novella of a young ship captain secretly harboring a fugitive who resembles his double.
"The Whitsun Weddings"	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Philip Larkin's poem observing newlywed couples boarding a train, journeying toward London and uncertain futures.
"The World is Too Much With Us"	Romanticism	Wordsworth's sonnet lamenting that "getting and spending" has estranged humanity from nature.
"There must be more money"	Modernism & the World Wars	Recurring, house-haunting refrain in D. H. Lawrence's "The Rocking-Horse Winner."
"Tintern Abbey"	Romanticism	Wordsworth's poem reflecting on memory and nature while revisiting a ruined abbey on the River Wye.
'Tis Pity She's a Whore	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	John Ford's Caroline tragedy of an incestuous love between a brother and sister that ends in violent ruin.
1910s	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Decade encompassing Edwardian and early-modernist literature, framed by World War I.
1984	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Numeral title of George Orwell's dystopia of surveillance, Big Brother, and protagonist Winston Smith.
A	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Initial shared by literary figures such as Austen, Arnold, and Auden.
A Chaste Maid in Cheapside	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Thomas Middleton's Jacobean city comedy satirizing sexual and financial scheming among London tradesfolk.
A Kind of Alaska	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Harold Pinter's play, inspired by Oliver Sacks's Awakenings, of a woman waking after decades in a sleeping sickness.
a mouse	Romanticism	Small creature addressed in Robert Burns's poem "To a Mouse," source of "the best-laid schemes."
A New Way to Pay Old Debts	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Philip Massinger's Jacobean-Caroline comedy featuring the grasping villain Sir Giles Overreach.
A Woman of No Importance	Victorian Literature	Oscar Wilde's comedy of manners involving a scandalous secret from an aristocrat's past.
A. S. Byatt	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary novelist; Possession, intertwining modern scholars with Victorian poets.
Agnes Grey	Victorian Literature	Anne Bronte's novel drawing on her own experience as a beleaguered governess.
Alice Oswald	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary poet known for nature-focused verse; Dart, Memorial, a retelling of the Iliad's deaths.
All's Well That Ends Well	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare "problem play" in which Helena cures the king and tricks her reluctant husband Bertram into love.
anger	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring emotional theme, notably in Osborne's Look Back in Anger and the Angry Young Men movement.
Anne Bradstreet	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Colonial American Puritan poet, an early figure in the broader English-language poetic tradition.
Anne Elliot	Romanticism	Austen's Persuasion heroine, reunited with her former suitor Captain Wentworth after years of regret.
Anthony Hecht	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	American formalist poet, part of the wider English-language poetic tradition rather than the British canon proper.
Anthony Powell	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Novelist of the twelve-volume sequence A Dance to the Music of Time, tracing 20th-century English society.
Antigone	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Sophoclean Greek tragic heroine who defies the state to bury her brother, a recurring classical touchstone.
Antony and Cleopatra	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare tragedy of the Roman triumvir's ruinous love for the Egyptian queen.
Arabella	Victorian Literature	Coarse, manipulative second wife who traps Jude in Thomas Hardy's Jude the Obscure.
Archibald Macleish	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	American modernist poet, part of the wider English-language poetic tradition rather than the British canon proper.
Arnold	Victorian Literature	Surname of Victorian poet-critic Matthew Arnold.
Arnold Bennett	Modernism & the World Wars	Edwardian novelist; The Old Wives' Tale, chronicling provincial Staffordshire life.
Arthur Hugh Clough	Victorian Literature	Victorian poet and close friend of Matthew Arnold, mourned in Arnold's elegy "Thyrsis."
ashbins	Modernism & the World Wars	Urban squalor imagery characteristic of T. S. Eliot's early modernist poetry.
Atalanta in Calydon	Victorian Literature	Algernon Charles Swinburne's classically styled verse drama on the Greek huntress Atalanta.
aubades	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Dawn-song poetic form used by Donne and later revisited by Larkin.
Barabas	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Vengeful Maltese merchant-villain of Marlowe's The Jew of Malta.
Barchester Towers	Victorian Literature	Anthony Trollope's novel of ecclesiastical rivalry and comedy in the fictional cathedral town of Barchester.
Basil Bunting	Modernism & the World Wars	Modernist poet; Briggflatts, an autobiographical long poem rooted in Northumbrian landscape and dialect.
Beatrice	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Sharp-tongued heroine of Much Ado About Nothing, who spars wittily with Benedick before falling for him.
Bede	Old English & Anglo-Saxon Literature	Anglo-Saxon monk-historian; the Ecclesiastical History of the English People, "the father of English history."
bees	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring natural image across English pastoral and nature poetry.
being old	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring theme of aging, from Browning's "Rabbi Ben Ezra" to Yeats's late poetry.
Bertie Wooster	Modernism & the World Wars	Amiable, dim aristocrat served by the resourceful valet Jeeves in P. G. Wodehouse's stories.
Blasted	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Sarah Kane's shocking debut play juxtaposing a hotel-room encounter with war-zone atrocity.
Bram Stoker	Victorian Literature	Irish author of Dracula, the epistolary Gothic novel that defined the modern vampire.
Brian Friel	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary Irish playwright; Translations, Dancing at Lughnasa, exploring language and Irish identity.
Brighton	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	English seaside town setting of Greene's Brighton Rock.
Byzantium	Modernism & the World Wars	Ancient city Yeats imagines as an eternal artistic refuge in "Sailing to Byzantium."
Cain	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Novel by Portuguese Nobel laureate Jose Saramago reimagining the biblical fratricide, a non-British comparanda.
Carmilla	Victorian Literature	Sheridan Le Fanu's novella of a female vampire preying on a young woman, predating Dracula.
Castle Rackrent	Romanticism	Maria Edgeworth's novel narrated by a family servant, an early regional and historical novel.
Catherine Earnshaw	Victorian Literature	Wild, passionate heroine of Wuthering Heights, torn between Heathcliff and the genteel Edgar Linton.
Catherine Morland	Romanticism	Impressionable heroine of Austen's Northanger Abbey, whose Gothic-novel fantasies are gently mocked.
Charles	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Common name shared by literary figures and characters, including Dickens and Marlow-narrated protagonists.
Charles John Huffam Dickens	Victorian Literature	Full name of Victorian novelist Charles Dickens.
Childe Harold's Pilgrimage	Romanticism	Byron's narrative poem following a disillusioned wanderer through Europe, popularizing the "Byronic hero."
children	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring subject across British literature, from Dickens's orphans to children's authors like Carroll and Dahl.
Christmas	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring festive setting, most famously in Dickens's A Christmas Carol.
Christopher Tietjens	Modernism & the World Wars	Ford Madox Ford's protagonist in Parade's End, an old-fashioned gentleman undone by war and infidelity.
churches	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring setting, notably in Larkin's poem "Church Going."
Clarissa, or, the History of a Young Lady	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Full title of Samuel Richardson's epistolary novel of a woman's ruin at the hands of Lovelace.
Claudius	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Hamlet's uncle, who murders his brother the king, marries the widowed queen, and is finally killed by Hamlet.
