Sprung Rhythm	Victorian Literature	Rhythmic technique invented by Gerard Manley Hopkins, counting stresses rather than syllables per line.
stars	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring celestial image across British poetry, from Sidney's Astrophil and Stella to Hardy's fatalism.
Stella	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Beloved addressed in Sir Philip Sidney's sonnet sequence Astrophil and Stella.
stream of consciousness	Modernism & the World Wars	Narrative technique rendering a character's unfiltered inner thought, pioneered by Woolf and Joyce.
T. H. White	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Mid-20th-century novelist; The Once and Future King, a retelling of the King Arthur legend.
Tamburlaine the Great	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Marlowe's play glorifying the ruthless conqueror's rise from shepherd to world-conquering emperor.
tears	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring emotional motif across British poetry and the Victorian sentimental novel.
Terry Eagleton	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary Marxist literary critic and theorist; Literary Theory: An Introduction.
The Comedy of Errors	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare's farce of two sets of separated identical twins causing chaotic mistaken identity.
The Compleat Angler	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Izaak Walton's mid-17th-century prose treatise celebrating the art and contemplative pleasure of fishing.
The Dream of the Rood	Old English & Anglo-Saxon Literature	Old English dream-vision poem in which the cross (rood) itself narrates Christ's crucifixion.
The Heart of the Matter	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Graham Greene's novel of a guilt-ridden colonial policeman torn between duty, adultery, and Catholic faith.
The History Boys	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Alan Bennett's play following schoolboys preparing for Oxbridge entrance exams under two contrasting teachers.
The Key to All Mythologies	Victorian Literature	Unfinished, ultimately futile scholarly project of the pedantic Reverend Casaubon in Eliot's Middlemarch.
The Line of Beauty	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Alan Hollinghurst's Booker-winning novel of a gay man's entanglement with a Thatcher-era Conservative family.
The Mill on the Floss	Victorian Literature	George Eliot's novel of Maggie Tulliver's conflict between desire and duty in provincial England.
The Person from Porlock	Romanticism	Unwelcome visitor blamed by Coleridge for interrupting his composition of "Kubla Khan."
The Pickwick Papers	Victorian Literature	Dickens's episodic debut novel following the genial Mr. Pickwick and his club on their travels.
The Pilgrim's Progress	Restoration & Augustan Literature	John Bunyan's allegory following Christian's journey from the City of Destruction to the Celestial City.
The Pillowman	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Martin McDonagh's dark play about a writer interrogated over disturbing fairy tales resembling real child murders.
The Revolt of Islam	Romanticism	Percy Bysshe Shelley's long allegorical poem of revolution and idealistic reform.
The Road to Wigan Pier	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	George Orwell's documentary account of poverty among northern English coal miners.
The Satanic Verses	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Salman Rushdie's magical-realist novel that prompted Ayatollah Khomeini's fatwa against him.
The Sea, The Sea	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Iris Murdoch's Booker-winning novel of a retired theater director obsessed with a childhood love.
The Spanish Tragedy, or Hieronimo Is Mad Again	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Thomas Kyd's foundational revenge tragedy, whose grieving father Hieronimo seeks vengeance for his murdered son.
the sun	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring celestial image across British poetry, from Donne's "The Sun Rising" to Blake's symbolism.
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall	Victorian Literature	Anne Bronte's novel of a woman who flees an abusive, dissolute husband to protect her son.
The Third Policeman	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Flann O'Brien's surreal novel of a murderer trapped in an absurd afterlife obsessed with bicycles.
The Two Noble Kinsmen	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Late Shakespeare-Fletcher collaboration of two cousins whose friendship is destroyed by rivalry over the same woman.
The Unconsoled	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Kazuo Ishiguro's dreamlike, disorienting novel following a pianist through a nightmarish, illogical city.
Thomas Chatterton	Romanticism	Pre-Romantic "marvellous boy" poet who forged medieval verse and died by suicide at seventeen.
Thomas Cromwell	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Henry VIII's calculating chief minister, the central figure of Hilary Mantel's Wolf Hall trilogy.
Thomas Dekker	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Jacobean playwright; The Shoemaker's Holiday, a comedy celebrating London tradesmen.
Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There	Victorian Literature	Full title of Lewis Carroll's sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
Thrushcross Grange	Victorian Literature	Genteel Linton family estate contrasted with Wuthering Heights in Emily Bronte's novel.
time travel	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Speculative device introduced to English fiction chiefly through H. G. Wells's The Time Machine.
Time's Arrow	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Martin Amis novel narrating a Holocaust perpetrator's life in reverse chronological order.
Timon of Athens	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare tragedy of a generous Athenian ruined by his fair-weather friends who becomes a bitter misanthrope.
Touchstone	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Witty court fool who accompanies Rosalind and Celia into exile in Shakespeare's As You Like It.
trees	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring natural image across English pastoral and Romantic poetry.
Troilus	Middle English Literature	Trojan prince whose doomed love for Criseyde is chronicled in Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde.
Troilus and Criseyde	Middle English Literature	Chaucer's tragic romance of a Trojan prince betrayed by his beloved Criseyde for the Greek Diomedes.
Trollope	Victorian Literature	Surname of Victorian novelist Anthony Trollope, author of the Barsetshire and Palliser novels.
Under the Volcano	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Malcolm Lowry's novel of an alcoholic British consul's final day in Mexico on the Day of the Dead.
United Kingdom	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Nation whose literary tradition, spanning England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland, forms this unit.
United States of America	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Nation of birth for several writers, such as T. S. Eliot and Henry James, later naturalized British.
universities	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring setting of the campus novel, from Kingsley Amis's Lucky Jim to David Lodge's fiction.
Urania	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Title figure of Mary Wroth's Jacobean prose romance The Countess of Montgomery's Urania.
Vathek	Romanticism	William Beckford's Gothic Orientalist novel of a caliph's descent into damnation through forbidden knowledge.
Verona	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Italian city setting of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet and The Two Gentlemen of Verona.
Welsh	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	National identifier for writers including Dylan Thomas within the British literary tradition.
Wessex	Victorian Literature	Fictional region of southwest England invented by Thomas Hardy as the setting for his novels.
Where Angels Fear to Tread	Modernism & the World Wars	E. M. Forster's first novel, of an Englishwoman's scandalous remarriage in Italy and its tragic aftermath.
William Ernest Henley	Victorian Literature	Victorian poet; "Invictus," written from a hospital bed, declaring "I am the master of my fate."
William Wycherley	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Restoration comedy-of-manners playwright; The Country Wife, known for bawdy wit.
Wit	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Prized literary quality central to Restoration comedy of manners and Wilde's epigrammatic style.
witches	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Prophetic, supernatural figures who set Macbeth's tragedy in motion in Shakespeare's play.
wolf	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring predatory image, echoed in the title of Mantel's Wolf Hall.
Wordsworth	Romanticism	Surname of Lake Poet William Wordsworth, who launched Romanticism with Coleridge.
Yorick	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Dead court jester whose skull Hamlet contemplates, mourning "Alas, poor Yorick."
Zuleika Dobson	Modernism & the World Wars	Max Beerbohm's comic novel of an irresistible beauty whose Oxford visit causes mass undergraduate suicide.
"A Defence of Poetry"	Romanticism	Percy Bysshe Shelley's essay declaring poets "the unacknowledged legislators of the world."
"A Valediction Forbidding Mourning"	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	John Donne's farewell poem comparing separated lovers to the two legs of a drafting compass.
"Among School Children"	Modernism & the World Wars	Yeats's poem, written while touring a schoolroom, asking "how can we know the dancer from the dance?"
"And death shall have no dominion"	Modernism & the World Wars	Dylan Thomas's poem defiantly asserting that death holds no ultimate power over the dead.
"Auld Lang Syne"	Romanticism	Robert Burns's Scots-dialect poem of remembrance, traditionally sung to mark the New Year.
"Burnt Norton"	Modernism & the World Wars	First poem of T. S. Eliot's Four Quartets, meditating on time and a rose garden.
"Counter-Attack"	Modernism & the World Wars	Siegfried Sassoon's World War I poem depicting the brutal chaos of trench combat.
"Epithalamion"	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Edmund Spenser's wedding poem celebrating his own marriage to Elizabeth Boyle.
"Felix Randal"	Victorian Literature	Gerard Manley Hopkins's sonnet elegizing a dying blacksmith parishioner.
"Gunga Din"	Victorian Literature	Kipling's poem honoring a heroic Indian water-carrier who serves British soldiers despite their scorn.
"Hap"	Victorian Literature	Thomas Hardy's poem on the indifferent, blind chance ("Crass Casualty") governing human suffering.
"I am a little world made cunningly"	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	John Donne Holy Sonnet comparing the speaker's soul to a microcosm requiring purification.
"I Am"	Romanticism	John Clare's poem of self-erasure and isolation, written during his confinement in an asylum.
"I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud"	Romanticism	Wordsworth's poem recalling a field of daffodils that later returns to comfort him in solitude.
"Invictus"	Victorian Literature	W. E. Henley's poem declaring "I am the master of my fate: I am the captain of my soul."
"La Belle Dame Sans Merci"	Romanticism	Keats's ballad of a knight seduced and abandoned by a supernatural, merciless lady.
"Lapis Lazuli"	Modernism & the World Wars	Yeats's poem finding tragic joy and artistic gaiety in a carved lapis lazuli scene amid world catastrophe.
"Leda and the Swan"	Modernism & the World Wars	Yeats's sonnet on Zeus's rape of Leda in swan form, framed as setting history's violence in motion.
"Locksley Hall"	Victorian Literature	Tennyson's dramatic monologue of a jilted speaker's bitter reflections on love, progress, and the future.
