The French Lieutenant's Woman	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	John Fowles's postmodern historical novel offering multiple endings for a mysterious Victorian outcast woman.
the moon	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring celestial image across British poetry, from Romantic nature verse to Gothic atmosphere.
The Pearl Poet	Middle English Literature	Anonymous author credited with Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, Pearl, and other alliterative Middle English poems.
The Rivals	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Sheridan's comedy of manners featuring the malaprop-prone Mrs. Malaprop and rival suitors for Lydia Languish.
The Rover	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Aphra Behn's Restoration comedy of exiled English cavaliers pursuing romance in Naples during carnival.
The Sense of an Ending	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Julian Barnes's Booker-winning novel of an unreliable narrator revisiting a friend's suicide decades later.
The Way of the World	Restoration & Augustan Literature	William Congreve's comedy of manners centered on the witty courtship of Mirabell and Millamant.
Thomas Carlyle	Victorian Literature	Victorian essayist and historian; Sartor Resartus and On Heroes, Hero-Worship, and the Heroic in History.
Travesties	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Tom Stoppard's play imagining Joyce, Tristan Tzara, and Lenin crossing paths in wartime Zurich.
Twelfth Night, or What You Will	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Full title of Shakespeare's comedy of shipwrecked twin Viola disguised as a man.
Under Milk Wood	Modernism & the World Wars	Dylan Thomas's radio play giving voice to the residents of a fictional Welsh fishing village over one day.
W	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Initial shared by British literary figures such as Auden, Wordsworth, and Wilde.
wife	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring domestic role and source of conflict across British drama and the novel of manners.
wolves	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring predatory image in British poetry and fable, and namesake of Mantel's Wolf Hall.
"A Modest Proposal"	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Jonathan Swift's satirical essay proposing the Irish poor sell their children as food for the wealthy.
"A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning"	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	John Donne's farewell poem comparing separated lovers to the two legs of a drafting compass.
"Dulce et decorum est"	Modernism & the World Wars	Wilfred Owen's World War I poem condemning the "old Lie" that dying for one's country is sweet and fitting.
"Fern Hill"	Modernism & the World Wars	Dylan Thomas's nostalgic poem recalling an idyllic Welsh farm childhood before the shadow of mortality.
"Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood"	Romanticism	Wordsworth's ode on childhood's visionary "clouds of glory" fading into ordinary adult perception.
"The Circus Animals' Desertion"	Modernism & the World Wars	Yeats's late poem admitting his poetic imagery must now begin "in the foul rag-and-bone shop of the heart."
"The Darkling Thrush"	Victorian Literature	Thomas Hardy's turn-of-the-century poem in which a thrush's song offers fragile hope amid bleak winter landscape.
"The Lady of Shalott"	Victorian Literature	Tennyson's poem of a cursed weaver who dies after leaving her tower to look directly at Sir Lancelot.
"The Second Coming"	Modernism & the World Wars	Yeats's apocalyptic poem declaring that "the centre cannot hold" as a "rough beast" slouches toward Bethlehem.
"The Wreck of the Deutschland"	Victorian Literature	Gerard Manley Hopkins's sprung-rhythm elegy for nuns drowned in a shipwreck.
"This Be The Verse"	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Philip Larkin's blunt poem opening "They fuck you up, your mum and dad."
"Thyrsis"	Victorian Literature	Matthew Arnold's pastoral elegy mourning his friend and fellow poet Arthur Hugh Clough.
"To a Skylark"	Romanticism	Percy Bysshe Shelley's ode addressing the bird as a "blithe spirit" of unearthly joyful song.
"To Autumn"	Romanticism	John Keats's ode celebrating the "season of mists and mellow fruitfulness."
A Passage to India	Modernism & the World Wars	E. M. Forster's novel of a fraught friendship strained by a disputed incident in the Marabar Caves.
A Tale of a Tub	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Jonathan Swift's satirical prose allegory mocking religious and scholarly excess.
Ann Radcliffe	Romanticism	Pioneering Gothic novelist; The Mysteries of Udolpho, known for explained supernatural terror.
Australia	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Commonwealth nation contributing writers like Peter Carey and Patrick White to the broader English canon.
ballads	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Narrative folk-song form revived by Wordsworth and Coleridge's Lyrical Ballads.
Battle of Waterloo	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	1815 battle ending the Napoleonic Wars, referenced across 19th-century British literature.
beauty	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring aesthetic theme, central to Keats's odes and Wilde's Aestheticism.
bicycles	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Comic motif of Flann O'Brien's The Third Policeman, whose "atomic theory" merges men and bicycles.
C. S. Lewis	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Oxford Inkling and Christian apologist; The Chronicles of Narnia, The Screwtape Letters.
cats	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Subject of T. S. Eliot's whimsical Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats, basis for the musical Cats.
Christopher Isherwood	Modernism & the World Wars	Interwar novelist of Weimar Berlin; Goodbye to Berlin, source for the musical Cabaret.
Clive Staples Lewis	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Full name of Oxford Inkling and Narnia author C. S. Lewis.
D	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Initial shared by literary figures such as Dickens, Donne, and Defoe.
D.H. Lawrence	Modernism & the World Wars	Modernist novelist of instinct and sexuality; Sons and Lovers, Lady Chatterley's Lover, The Rainbow.
David Garrick	Restoration & Augustan Literature	18th-century actor-manager who reinvigorated Shakespearean performance and Georgian theatre.
David Lodge	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary novelist of comic campus fiction; Changing Places, Small World.
De Profundis	Victorian Literature	Oscar Wilde's long prose letter written in prison, reflecting on his downfall and relationship with Lord Alfred Douglas.
Death	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Personified or thematic presence across British literature, from Everyman to Donne's "Death, be not proud."
Edward Bulwer-Lytton	Victorian Literature	Victorian novelist and playwright; Pelham, opened a novel with "It was a dark and stormy night."
Elizabeth Bowen	Modernism & the World Wars	Anglo-Irish modernist novelist; The Death of the Heart, known for psychological precision.
Elizabeth I	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Tudor queen whose reign gave its name to Elizabethan literature and who was celebrated in Spenser's Faerie Queene.
England	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Nation whose shifting national identity and landscape recur across the British literary canon.
farms	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Rural setting central to Orwell's allegorical Animal Farm and Hardy's Wessex novels.
Fielding	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Surname of Augustan novelist Henry Fielding, author of Tom Jones and Joseph Andrews.
George Chapman	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Elizabethan-Jacobean poet and playwright best known for his translation of Homer.
ghosts	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Supernatural figures central to Gothic fiction and, in Ibsen's play Ghosts, a non-British touchstone for the theme.
Gothic fiction	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Genre of supernatural dread and ruined settings spanning Walpole and Radcliffe to Shelley and du Maurier.
H. G. Wells	Modernism & the World Wars	Edwardian pioneer of science fiction; The Time Machine, The War of the Worlds, The Island of Doctor Moreau.
Helen of Troy	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Classical Greek figure whose beauty and abduction recur as a literary allusion across English poetry.
In Parenthesis	Modernism & the World Wars	David Jones's modernist long poem blending prose and verse to depict World War I trench experience.
India	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Setting and subject of empire-era and postcolonial writing, from Kipling to Forster and Rushdie.
Ivanhoe	Romanticism	Walter Scott's historical novel of Saxon knight Wilfred of Ivanhoe amid Norman-Saxon tension under Richard the Lionheart.
J	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Initial shared by literary figures such as Joyce, Johnson, and Jonson.
James Bond	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Ian Fleming's suave British secret agent, 007, hero of a Cold War-era spy novel series.
John Gower	Middle English Literature	Middle English poet and contemporary of Chaucer; Confessio Amantis, a collection of moral tales.
Julia	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Common heroine name, notably Winston Smith's lover in Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four.
Latin	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Classical language underlying English literary education and translated by figures like Dryden and Pope.
Malvolio	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Puritanical, self-important steward tricked into absurd behavior in Shakespeare's Twelfth Night.
Mercutio	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Romeo's witty, ill-fated friend in Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, killed by Tybalt.
Middlemarch, A Study of Provincial Life	Victorian Literature	Full title of George Eliot's panoramic novel of provincial English life.
morality plays	Middle English Literature	Medieval allegorical drama genre, exemplified by Everyman, teaching moral lessons through personified virtues and vices.
Mrs. Warren's Profession	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	George Bernard Shaw's play confronting a mother's past as a brothel owner and her daughter's judgment of her.
Muriel Spark	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Scottish Catholic novelist; The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, known for spare, ironic prose.
Ophelia	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Hamlet's beloved, driven to madness and drowning after her father Polonius's death in Shakespeare's tragedy.
Our Mutual Friend	Victorian Literature	Dickens's late novel of inheritance, disguise, and the Thames, involving the "dust heaps" fortune of the Harmon family.
Oxford	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	University city and setting recurring across British literature, home to numerous authors and campus novels.
Oxford University	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Ancient university educating a wide swath of English writers, from Sidney to Auden and Tolkien.
Peter Pan	Modernism & the World Wars	J. M. Barrie's Edwardian play and novel of the boy who refuses to grow up, ruler of Neverland.
Portia	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Clever heroine of The Merchant of Venice who disguises herself as a lawyer to save Antonio.
Reading Gaol	Victorian Literature	Prison where Oscar Wilde was incarcerated, subject of his poem "The Ballad of Reading Gaol."
Romeo and Juliet	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare's tragedy of two feuding Verona families' children whose secret marriage ends in double suicide.
roses	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring symbol, from the Wars of the Roses to Blake's "The Sick Rose" and Shakespeare's "a rose by any other name."
