Never Let Me Go	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Kazuo Ishiguro's novel gradually revealing that its boarding-school narrators are clones raised for organ donation.
Orlando: A Biography	Modernism & the World Wars	Virginia Woolf's novel following a nobleman who lives centuries and changes sex to a woman partway through.
Othello	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare tragedy of the Moorish general destroyed by Iago's manipulation into jealousy over Desdemona.
Paradise Lost	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Milton's epic on Satan's fall and Adam and Eve's expulsion from Eden, justifying "the ways of God to men."
Robinson Crusoe	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Daniel Defoe's novel of a shipwrecked castaway who survives alone on an island before meeting his companion Friday.
sonnets	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Fourteen-line poetic form used across British literature, most famously by Shakespeare, Donne, and Wordsworth.
swans	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring image, notably in Yeats's "Leda and the Swan" and "The Wild Swans at Coole."
The Remains of the Day	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Kazuo Ishiguro's novel narrated by the repressed butler Stevens, reflecting on duty and a lost chance at love.
The School for Scandal	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Richard Brinsley Sheridan's comedy of manners skewering hypocrisy and gossip among London society.
Thomas	Modernism & the World Wars	Shorthand for Welsh modernist poet Dylan Thomas.
Titus Andronicus	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare's earliest, bloodiest tragedy, featuring the Roman general's revenge against Tamora and Aaron.
Volpone	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Ben Jonson's satirical comedy of a Venetian miser who feigns death to swindle legacy-hunters.
William Hazlitt	Romanticism	Romantic-era essayist and critic; Characters of Shakespeare's Plays, known for vigorous prose style.
"Elegy Written In A Country Churchyard"	Romanticism	Thomas Gray's meditation on mortality and obscure rural lives, source of "the paths of glory lead but to the grave."
"The Waste Land"	Modernism & the World Wars	T. S. Eliot's fragmented modernist poem of postwar spiritual desolation, ending "Shantih shantih shantih."
Brave New World	Modernism & the World Wars	Aldous Huxley's dystopia of engineered caste and the pacifying drug soma, with outsider John the Savage.
butler	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring servant figure, epitomized by Stevens in Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day and Jeeves in Wodehouse.
Dorothea Brooke	Victorian Literature	Idealistic heroine of George Eliot's Middlemarch, unhappily married to the pedantic scholar Casaubon.
Edward Morgan Forster	Modernism & the World Wars	Full name of novelist E. M. Forster.
Emily Bronte	Victorian Literature	Victorian novelist of Wuthering Heights, her only novel; also wrote poetry; sister of Charlotte and Anne.
Far From the Madding Crowd	Victorian Literature	Thomas Hardy's Wessex novel of farmer Bathsheba Everdene and her three suitors, including shepherd Gabriel Oak.
Flann O'Brien	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Pen name of Irish comic novelist Brian O'Nolan; At Swim-Two-Birds, The Third Policeman.
Frankenstein	Romanticism	Mary Shelley's novel of scientist Victor Frankenstein and the nameless creature he assembles and abandons.
Grendel	Old English & Anglo-Saxon Literature	Monster slain by the hero in Beowulf, along with Grendel's mother and later a dragon.
Heathcliff	Victorian Literature	Byronic, vengeful foundling of Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights, obsessed with Catherine Earnshaw.
Henry V	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare history play following the young king's rousing leadership at the Battle of Agincourt.
John Millington Synge	Modernism & the World Wars	Irish Literary Revival playwright; The Playboy of the Western World, Riders to the Sea.
Measure for Measure	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare "problem play" of a deputy's abuse of power and a novice nun's moral test.
Northanger Abbey	Romanticism	Jane Austen's novel parodying Gothic fiction through impressionable heroine Catherine Morland.
Of Human Bondage	Modernism & the World Wars	W. Somerset Maugham's semi-autobiographical novel of clubfooted Philip Carey's painful path to maturity.
Oliver Cromwell	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Puritan Lord Protector of England after the Civil War execution of Charles I; subject of Marvell's Horatian Ode.
Samuel Richardson	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Augustan-era epistolary novelist; Pamela and Clarissa, pioneering the novel of interior feeling.
Sense and Sensibility	Romanticism	Jane Austen's debut novel contrasting practical Elinor and passionate Marianne Dashwood.
Siegfried Sassoon	Modernism & the World Wars	World War I poet of bitter anti-war satire; "Counter-Attack," friend of Wilfred Owen.
Ted Hughes	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Poet Laureate known for raw nature poetry; married to Sylvia Plath, whose posthumous Ariel he edited.
The Alchemist	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Ben Jonson's comedy of con artists running elaborate scams from a house in plague-emptied London.
The Dumb Waiter	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Harold Pinter's tense one-act about two hitmen awaiting orders via a dumbwaiter in a basement room.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Muriel Spark's novel of a charismatic, manipulative Edinburgh schoolteacher and her devoted students.
Waiting for Godot	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Samuel Beckett's absurdist play in which Vladimir and Estragon wait futilely for a figure who never arrives.
Wales	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Nation contributing Dylan Thomas and other Welsh voices to the British literary canon.
"The Open Window"	Modernism & the World Wars	Saki's short story in which a girl's invented ghost story terrifies a nervous visitor into fleeing.
"The Rocking-Horse Winner"	Modernism & the World Wars	D. H. Lawrence short story of a boy who predicts racehorse winners by riding his rocking horse into a frenzy.
"Ulysses"	Victorian Literature	Tennyson's dramatic monologue of the aged hero resolving "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."
A Clockwork Orange	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Anthony Burgess's novel of ultraviolent delinquent Alex, narrated in the invented slang Nadsat.
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man	Modernism & the World Wars	James Joyce's semi-autobiographical novel of Stephen Dedalus's coming of age and artistic awakening.
Angry Young Men	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Postwar British writers, including John Osborne and Alan Sillitoe, known for working-class, disaffected protagonists.
G. K. Chesterton	Modernism & the World Wars	Edwardian essayist and novelist; the Father Brown mysteries, The Man Who Was Thursday.
Love's Labour's Lost	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare comedy of a king and his lords who forswear women's company, only to promptly fall in love.
Middle English	Middle English Literature	Stage of the English language, used by Chaucer and the Gawain-poet, between Old English and the modern tongue.
North and South	Victorian Literature	Elizabeth Gaskell's "Condition of England" novel contrasting industrial North and genteel South through Margaret Hale.
Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Honorary royal appointment held over time by Dryden, Wordsworth, Tennyson, Hughes, and Duffy, among others.
Pride and Prejudice	Romanticism	Jane Austen's novel of Elizabeth Bennet's evolving relationship with the proud Mr. Darcy.
Roald Dahl	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	British children's author and short-story writer; Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Matilda, dark adult tales.
Robert Herrick	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Cavalier poet; "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time," carpe-diem lyrics of nature and love.
Robert Southey	Romanticism	Lake Poet and Poet Laureate alongside Wordsworth and Coleridge; wrote "The Story of the Three Bears."
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Tom Stoppard's absurdist play retelling Hamlet from the perspective of its two minor courtiers.
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight	Middle English Literature	Anonymous alliterative romance in which Gawain accepts a beheading challenge from a mysterious green knight.
Sir John Falstaff	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare's comic, cowardly knight and companion to Prince Hal in the Henry IV plays.
Smith	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Common surname shared by British writers including novelist Zadie Smith and poet Stevie Smith.
Stephen Dedalus	Modernism & the World Wars	James Joyce's autobiographical alter ego, protagonist of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and a character in Ulysses.
The Country Wife	Restoration & Augustan Literature	William Wycherley's bawdy Restoration comedy involving the seducer Horner's feigned impotence.
The Importance of Being Earnest	Victorian Literature	Oscar Wilde's farce of mistaken identities built on two men's fictitious "Ernest" personas.
The Merchant of Venice	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare comedy in which moneylender Shylock demands a pound of flesh from merchant Antonio.
The Taming of the Shrew	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare comedy of Petruchio's contentious courtship and "taming" of the sharp-tongued Katherina.
The Waste Land	Modernism & the World Wars	T. S. Eliot's landmark modernist poem of postwar cultural fragmentation, in five sections.
Twelfth Night	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare comedy of shipwrecked twin Viola disguised as a man, entangling Duke Orsino and Countess Olivia.
Wendy Cope	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary poet known for witty, accessible light verse, including parodies of other poets.
Wilkie Collins	Victorian Literature	Victorian sensation novelist; The Moonstone and The Woman in White; friend of Dickens.
William Somerset Maugham	Modernism & the World Wars	Full name of novelist and playwright W. Somerset Maugham.
Wuthering Heights	Victorian Literature	Emily Bronte's novel of the destructive passion between Heathcliff and Catherine Earnshaw on the Yorkshire moors.
"A Room of One's Own"	Modernism & the World Wars	Virginia Woolf's essay on women's need for financial and creative independence to write.
"Kubla Khan"	Romanticism	Coleridge's opium-inspired, unfinished vision of Xanadu and its "stately pleasure-dome."
"Lycidas"	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Milton's pastoral elegy mourning a drowned Cambridge classmate under the shepherd name Lycidas.
A Room with a View	Modernism & the World Wars	E. M. Forster's novel of Lucy Honeychurch's awakening in Florence and choice between suitors.
A Tale of Two Cities	Victorian Literature	Dickens's novel set during the French Revolution, ending with Sydney Carton's self-sacrifice.
Betrayal	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Harold Pinter's play depicting an affair's aftermath told in reverse chronological order.
Caliban	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Enslaved, resentful native of the island in Shakespeare's The Tempest, son of the witch Sycorax.
Charles Lamb	Romanticism	Romantic-era essayist; Essays of Elia, and co-author with sister Mary of Tales from Shakespeare.
Coriolanus	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare tragedy of a proud Roman general whose contempt for the plebeians leads to his banishment.
David Copperfield	Victorian Literature	Dickens's semi-autobiographical novel following its orphaned narrator from childhood hardship to authorship.
