She Stoops to Conquer	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Oliver Goldsmith's comedy of mistaken identity in which a suitor is tricked into thinking a manor house is an inn.
W. Somerset Maugham	Modernism & the World Wars	English novelist and playwright; Of Human Bondage, The Moon and Sixpence, drawing on his semi-autobiographical Philip Carey.
Emma	Romanticism	Jane Austen novel of the meddling matchmaker Emma Woodhouse, who misreads the romantic lives of Highbury's residents.
Ian McEwan	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary British novelist; Atonement, The Cement Garden; known for precise, unsettling prose.
Katherine Mansfield	Modernism & the World Wars	New Zealand-born modernist short-story writer; "The Garden Party," "The Dead" -- influenced by Chekhov.
William Makepeace Thackeray	Victorian Literature	Victorian novelist and satirist; Vanity Fair, narrated by an intrusive authorial "Manager of the Performance."
A Shropshire Lad	Victorian Literature	A. E. Housman's 1896 poetry collection of terse, melancholy lyrics on youth, death, and rural England.
Algernon Charles Swinburne	Victorian Literature	Victorian poet of Decadent, transgressive lyricism and classical meters; associated with the Pre-Raphaelites.
Anthony Burgess	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	English novelist; A Clockwork Orange, narrated in the invented slang Nadsat by delinquent Alex.
Carol Ann Duffy	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Scottish poet, first woman UK Poet Laureate (2009-2019); feminist revisionist collection The World's Wife.
Daniel Defoe	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Augustan-era journalist and novelist; Robinson Crusoe and Moll Flanders, early landmarks of the English novel.
Hamlet	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare's tragedy of the Danish prince who feigns madness to avenge his father, murdered by Claudius.
Lady Chatterley's Lover	Modernism & the World Wars	D. H. Lawrence's controversial novel of an affair between Lady Chatterley and gamekeeper Oliver Mellors.
Sherlock Holmes	Victorian Literature	Arthur Conan Doyle's deductive detective of Baker Street, aided by Dr. Watson and foiled by Professor Moriarty.
Sonnets from the Portuguese	Victorian Literature	Elizabeth Barrett Browning's love-sonnet sequence for Robert Browning, including "How do I love thee?"
"Goblin Market"	Victorian Literature	Christina Rossetti's Pre-Raphaelite narrative poem of sisters Laura and Lizzie tempted by goblin merchants' fruit.
George Herbert	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Metaphysical poet-priest; The Temple, devotional lyrics including shaped poems like "Easter Wings."
Howards End	Modernism & the World Wars	E. M. Forster's novel of class and connection ("only connect") among the Schlegels and Wilcoxes.
Middlemarch	Victorian Literature	George Eliot's panoramic novel of provincial life, centered on idealistic Dorothea Brooke and doctor Lydgate.
Oliver Goldsmith	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Anglo-Irish Augustan writer; She Stoops to Conquer, The Vicar of Wakefield, "The Deserted Village."
Pygmalion	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	George Bernard Shaw's play in which phonetician Henry Higgins transforms flower girl Eliza Doolittle; basis for My Fair Lady.
Richard Lovelace	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Cavalier poet loyal to Charles I; "To Althea, from Prison," "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars."
Thomas De Quincey	Romanticism	Romantic-era essayist known for Confessions of an English Opium-Eater.
William Congreve	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Restoration comedy-of-manners playwright; The Way of the World, prized for epigrammatic wit.
"Dover Beach"	Victorian Literature	Matthew Arnold's poem lamenting faith's "melancholy, long, withdrawing roar" as heard from a Dover shoreline.
A. E. Housman	Victorian Literature	Victorian/Georgian classical scholar-poet; A Shropshire Lad, terse lyrics on mortality and lost youth.
Bleak House	Victorian Literature	Dickens novel satirizing the interminable Chancery lawsuit Jarndyce and Jarndyce; narrated partly by Esther Summerson.
Brideshead Revisited	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Evelyn Waugh's novel of Charles Ryder's entanglement with the aristocratic Catholic Flyte family and their estate.
Charlotte Bronte	Victorian Literature	Victorian novelist; Jane Eyre and Villette, elder of the literary Bronte sisters.
Christina Rossetti	Victorian Literature	Pre-Raphaelite-adjacent poet; "Goblin Market," devotional and love lyrics; sister of Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
Dublin	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Irish capital and setting central to Joyce's Dubliners and Ulysses.
Elizabeth Gaskell	Victorian Literature	Victorian "Condition of England" novelist; North and South, Mary Barton, biographer of Charlotte Bronte.
Finnegans Wake	Modernism & the World Wars	James Joyce's final, densely punning novel, opening mid-sentence with "riverrun" and cycling back to its start.
Laurence Sterne	Restoration & Augustan Literature	18th-century novelist; Tristram Shandy, a digressive, typographically experimental mock-autobiography.
Lucky Jim	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Kingsley Amis's Movement-era campus novel satirizing academic pretension through hapless lecturer Jim Dixon.
Margaret Atwood	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Canadian novelist and poet; The Handmaid's Tale, dystopian and feminist fiction.
vampires	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Gothic figures central to Stoker's Dracula and Le Fanu's Carmilla within British Gothic fiction.
White Teeth	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Zadie Smith's debut novel of multi-generational, multicultural London families.
Wilfred Owen	Modernism & the World Wars	World War I trench poet; "Dulce et Decorum Est," killed in action a week before the Armistice.
"The Dead"	Modernism & the World Wars	Closing story of Joyce's Dubliners, ending with Gabriel Conroy's epiphany as snow falls over Ireland.
Don Juan	Romanticism	Byron's unfinished mock-epic satirizing European society through its rakish (if passive) hero's adventures.
Great Expectations	Victorian Literature	Dickens novel of orphan Pip, the escaped convict Magwitch, and the jilted Miss Havisham.
Horace	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Roman lyric poet and satirist frequently invoked as a classical model for English poetry.
Iris Murdoch	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Irish-born philosopher-novelist; The Sea, The Sea, exploring morality and obsession.
Lewis Carroll	Victorian Literature	Pen name of Charles Dodgson; Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass.
Michael Frayn	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary playwright and novelist; backstage farce Noises Off, historical drama Copenhagen.
Mrs. Dalloway	Modernism & the World Wars	Virginia Woolf's stream-of-consciousness novel following Clarissa Dalloway through a single London day.
Much Ado About Nothing	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare comedy of sparring lovers Beatrice and Benedick alongside the slandered Hero and Claudio.
Sir Philip Sidney	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Elizabethan courtier-poet; sonnet sequence Astrophil and Stella, prose romance The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia.
The Moonstone	Victorian Literature	Wilkie Collins's early detective novel about a stolen Indian diamond, often called the first English detective novel.
The Playboy of the Western World	Modernism & the World Wars	J. M. Synge's Irish Literary Revival play whose hero Christy Mahon is lionized for supposedly killing his father.
The Tempest	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare's late romance of exiled magician Prospero, his daughter Miranda, and spirits Ariel and Caliban.
time	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring thematic preoccupation, from Sterne's digressions to Eliot's Four Quartets and Woolf's fiction.
Tristram Shandy	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Laurence Sterne's digressive mock-autobiography narrated by a man who struggles even to be born within the story.
W. B. Yeats	Modernism & the World Wars	Abbreviated name of Irish Literary Revival poet William Butler Yeats.
A Room of One's Own	Modernism & the World Wars	Virginia Woolf's essay arguing a woman needs money and "a room of her own" to write fiction.
Aldous Huxley	Modernism & the World Wars	Modernist novelist; Brave New World, a dystopia of engineered contentment and the drug soma.
Arms and the Man	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	George Bernard Shaw's anti-romantic comedy about war, deflating heroic notions of soldiering and love.
Arthur Conan Doyle	Victorian Literature	Victorian creator of Sherlock Holmes; also wrote historical fiction and The Lost World.
As You Like It	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare pastoral comedy set in the Forest of Arden, featuring the cross-dressing Rosalind and melancholy Jaques.
Atonement	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Ian McEwan's novel in which young Briony's false accusation destroys the lovers Cecilia and Robbie.
Dubliners	Modernism & the World Wars	James Joyce's short-story collection depicting paralysis and epiphany in early-20th-century Dublin life.
Jean Rhys	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Caribbean-British novelist; Wide Sargasso Sea, a postcolonial prequel imagining Jane Eyre's "madwoman" Bertha.
Kingsley Amis	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Movement-era novelist; Lucky Jim, a satire of provincial academic life; father of Martin Amis.
Macbeth	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare tragedy of a Scottish general driven by prophecy and Lady Macbeth's ambition to murder King Duncan.
Mansfield Park	Romanticism	Jane Austen novel of quiet, principled Fanny Price raised among her wealthy Bertram relations.
Rebecca	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Daphne du Maurier's Gothic novel narrated by a nameless bride haunted by her husband's dead first wife.
Richard III	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare history play of the scheming, physically deformed Richard's ruthless rise to the English throne.
Robert Graves	Modernism & the World Wars	War poet and memoirist; Good-bye to All That recounts his World War I experience; also wrote I, Claudius.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Full title of Sterne's digressive 18th-century mock-autobiography.
To the Lighthouse	Modernism & the World Wars	Virginia Woolf's modernist novel centered on the Ramsay family's deferred visit to a Hebridean lighthouse.
Canada	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Nation contributing Atwood and Munro to the broader English-language literary tradition.
Caryl Churchill	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Contemporary feminist playwright; Top Girls, Cloud Nine, known for formal experimentation.
Dante Alighieri	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Medieval Italian poet of the Divine Comedy, a recurring influence and reference point for English poets.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti	Victorian Literature	Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood founder, poet-painter; brother of Christina Rossetti.
David Herbert Lawrence	Modernism & the World Wars	Full name of modernist novelist D. H. Lawrence.
Endgame	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Samuel Beckett's bleak absurdist play of Hamm and Clov confined together as the world seems to end.
Holy Sonnets	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	John Donne's devotional sonnet sequence, including "Death, be not proud" and "Batter my heart."
John Webster	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Jacobean revenge tragedian; The Duchess of Malfi, on a widowed duchess destroyed by her vengeful brothers.
Lady Windermere's Fan	Victorian Literature	Oscar Wilde's comedy of manners involving a fan, a scandal, and a mysterious Mrs. Erlynne.
