Wife of Bath	Middle English Literature	Chaucer's oft-married, outspoken pilgrim in The Canterbury Tales who argues for female authority in marriage.
William Caxton	Middle English Literature	Introduced the printing press to England in 1476, printing Chaucer's Canterbury Tales and Malory's Morte d'Arthur.
William Cowper	Romanticism	Pre-Romantic poet and hymn writer; The Task, known for gentle, personal verse on nature and faith.
William Shakespeare's sonnets	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	154-poem sequence including the Fair Youth and Dark Lady sequences and "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"
Wystan Hugh Auden	Modernism & the World Wars	Full name of English-born modernist poet W. H. Auden.
"Blackberry-Picking"	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Seamus Heaney poem recalling childhood berry-picking and the inevitable rot that follows abundance.
"Christabel"	Romanticism	Coleridge's unfinished narrative poem of a young woman entranced by the sinister, possibly supernatural Geraldine.
"Digging"	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Seamus Heaney's poem comparing his pen to his father's and grandfather's spades, choosing writing over farm labor.
"Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Alexander Pope's satirical verse letter defending himself against literary enemies, including the portrait of "Sporus."
"Jerusalem"	Romanticism	William Blake's poem, later set as a hymn, envisioning a New Jerusalem in "England's green and pleasant Land."
"Mid-Term Break"	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Seamus Heaney's elegy for his young brother, killed in a car accident, ending "A four foot box, a foot for every year."
"Ode on Melancholy"	Romanticism	Keats's ode arguing that true melancholy is inseparable from beauty and joy's fleeting nature.
"Ode to Psyche"	Romanticism	Keats's ode addressing the neglected goddess Psyche and vowing to become her priest.
"Odour of Chrysanthemums"	Modernism & the World Wars	D. H. Lawrence short story of a miner's wife awaiting her husband, who is brought home dead from an accident.
"Pied Beauty"	Victorian Literature	Gerard Manley Hopkins's sonnet praising God for all things "counter, original, spare, strange."
"Shooting an Elephant"	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	George Orwell's essay on a colonial officer in Burma forced to kill an elephant to save face before a crowd.
"The Birds"	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Daphne du Maurier's story of a Cornish farming community besieged by inexplicably aggressive birds.
"The Decay of Lying"	Victorian Literature	Oscar Wilde's dialogue-essay arguing that art should not imitate life but that "life imitates art."
"The Deserted Village"	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Oliver Goldsmith's poem lamenting rural depopulation and the loss of a idealized English village.
"The Eve of St. Agnes"	Romanticism	Keats's narrative poem of lovers Madeline and Porphyro uniting on a night of medieval superstition.
"The Garden Party"	Modernism & the World Wars	Title shared by Katherine Mansfield's story of a privileged girl confronting death nearby, and Vaclav Havel's Absurdist play.
"The Good-Morrow"	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	John Donne's aubade celebrating awakened, all-consuming love between two united souls.
"The Miller's Tale"	Middle English Literature	Bawdy fabliau from Chaucer's Canterbury Tales involving a cuckolded carpenter and a misdirected kiss.
"The Monkey's Paw"	Victorian Literature	W. W. Jacobs's horror story in which a cursed talisman grants wishes with terrible unintended consequences.
"The Scholar-Gipsy"	Victorian Literature	Matthew Arnold's poem on an Oxford student who abandons society to wander with gypsies in pursuit of secret knowledge.
"The Solitary Reaper"	Romanticism	Wordsworth's poem on a Highland girl's haunting song, heard but not understood by the passing poet.
"The Tyger"	Romanticism	William Blake's Songs of Experience poem asking what immortal hand or eye could frame the tiger's fearsome symmetry.
"To Althea, from Prison"	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	Richard Lovelace's Cavalier poem declaring that "stone walls do not a prison make."
A Handful of Dust	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Evelyn Waugh's satirical novel ending with its betrayed protagonist trapped reading Dickens aloud in the Amazon.
A Midsummer Night's Dream	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Shakespeare comedy of lovers, fairies, and the mischievous Puck tangled in an enchanted forest.
A.E. Housman	Victorian Literature	Victorian/Georgian classical scholar-poet; A Shropshire Lad, terse lyrics on mortality and lost youth.
Adam	Metaphysical & Civil War-Era Poetry	First man, expelled from Eden alongside Eve in Milton's Paradise Lost.
Aethiopica	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Ancient Greek prose romance by Heliodorus, an influential model for later English romance fiction.
Aldous Leonard Huxley	Modernism & the World Wars	Full name of Brave New World author Aldous Huxley.
Amoretti	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Edmund Spenser's sonnet sequence celebrating his courtship of his second wife, Elizabeth Boyle.
Ariel	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Sylvia Plath's posthumously published poetry collection, edited by her husband Ted Hughes.
Arthur Henry Hallam	Victorian Literature	Tennyson's close friend, whose early death inspired the elegy In Memoriam A.H.H.
artist	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring figure of self-reflection, especially in Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
At Swim-Two-Birds	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Flann O'Brien's metafictional comic novel in which characters rebel against their student-author.
Bartholomew Fair	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Ben Jonson's sprawling comedy satirizing Puritan hypocrisy and London fairground life.
Bath	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Georgian spa city setting central to Jane Austen's Northanger Abbey and Persuasion.
Benjamin Disraeli	Victorian Literature	Victorian prime minister and novelist; Sybil, or The Two Nations, on class division in industrial England.
Bertha Mason	Victorian Literature	Edward Rochester's hidden, mad first wife, confined in the attic in Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre.
Bloomsbury Group	Modernism & the World Wars	Circle of early-20th-century writers and artists including Virginia Woolf and Lytton Strachey.
Brick Lane	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Monica Ali's novel of a Bangladeshi immigrant woman's life in London's East End.
Brighton Rock	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Graham Greene's novel of teenage gangster Pinkie Brown's doomed marriage and moral damnation in seaside Brighton.
Caedmon	Old English & Anglo-Saxon Literature	Earliest known named English poet, a herdsman said to have received the gift of song in a dream.
Charles II	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Monarch whose 1660 restoration to the throne ended the Interregnum and reopened the theaters.
Churchill	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Surname shared by wartime statesman and Nobel literature laureate Winston Churchill and playwright Caryl Churchill.
Clarissa	Restoration & Augustan Literature	Samuel Richardson's epistolary novel of a woman's ruin and death after being drugged and violated by Lovelace.
Cloud Atlas	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	David Mitchell's novel of six nested, interlocking narratives spanning past and future.
conversation poems	Romanticism	Term for Coleridge's intimate, meditative blank-verse poems addressed to a silent listener, such as "Frost at Midnight."
Cornwall	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Southwestern English setting for du Maurier's Rebecca and Jamaica Inn.
dancing	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring social ritual in the novel of manners, from Austen's balls to Woolf's parties.
darkling	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Word for growing darkness used in Hardy's "The Darkling Thrush" and Arnold's "Dover Beach."
De Selby	Mid-20th-Century Fiction, Poetry & Theatre	Fictional crackpot philosopher whose theories are footnoted throughout Flann O'Brien's The Third Policeman.
Desiderius Erasmus	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Dutch Renaissance humanist and friend of Thomas More; In Praise of Folly, influential on English humanism.
detective	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring genre figure, from Sherlock Holmes to Agatha Christie's Poirot.
Dr. John Watson	Victorian Literature	Sherlock Holmes's loyal companion and the narrator of most of Arthur Conan Doyle's stories.
dramatic monologue	Victorian Literature	Poetic form perfected by Robert Browning, in which a single speaker reveals character unwittingly.
E	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Initial shared by literary figures such as Eliot and Edgeworth.
E.M. Forster	Modernism & the World Wars	Edwardian-modernist novelist of class and empire; Howards End, A Passage to India, Maurice.
Edward Lear	Victorian Literature	Victorian nonsense poet and illustrator; limericks and "The Owl and the Pussy-Cat."
Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell	Victorian Literature	Full name of Victorian novelist Elizabeth Gaskell.
Eminent Victorians	Modernism & the World Wars	Lytton Strachey's irreverent group biography debunking four celebrated Victorian figures.
epithalamion	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Wedding-poem genre, notably Spenser's own "Epithalamion" celebrating his marriage.
Every Man in His Humour	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	Ben Jonson's comedy satirizing character types defined by their dominant "humour," or temperament.
fairy tales	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Folk narrative genre reworked by Angela Carter in The Bloody Chamber.
Fanny Burney	Restoration & Augustan Literature	18th-century novelist and diarist; Evelina, an early novel of a young woman's entrance into society.
Fanny Price	Romanticism	Quiet, morally steadfast heroine of Jane Austen's Mansfield Park.
First Folio	Elizabethan & Jacobean Literature	1623 posthumous collection of Shakespeare's plays, the first to preserve many of them in print.
Four Quartets	Modernism & the World Wars	T. S. Eliot's four-part meditative poem sequence on time, memory, and spiritual renewal.
Frankenstein's monster	Romanticism	Nameless, articulate creature assembled and abandoned by the scientist in Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.
French Revolution	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Upheaval that shaped Wordsworth's early idealism and the setting of Dickens's A Tale of Two Cities.
friar	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring clerical figure, including Friar Laurence in Romeo and Juliet.
Gaius Valerius Catullus	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Roman lyric poet whose personal, passionate verse influenced English love poetry.
garden	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Recurring symbolic setting, from Milton's Eden to Mansfield's "The Garden Party" and English pastoral verse.
Gawain	Middle English Literature	Arthurian knight who accepts the Green Knight's beheading challenge in the alliterative romance bearing his name.
Girl, Woman, Other	Contemporary & Postcolonial Literature	Bernardine Evaristo's Booker-winning novel told through the interlinked lives of twelve, mostly Black British, women.
Glasgow	Common Themes & Cross-Category References	Major Scottish city and setting recurring in Scottish literary fiction.
