=== STOCK CLUES: L'homme arme ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 17 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: the "Agnus Dei" (AHG-noos DAY-ee) [prompt on "Lamb of God" before "Lamb" is read] [the first sentence refers respectively to Josquin's Missa L'homme arme (LOM AR-mee) sexti toni and Missa L'homme arme (LOM AR-mee) super voces musicales]
  - A movement of this type whose theme is stated forwards and backward at the same time was penned by Josquin des Prez (joe-SCAN deh-PRAY), who may have tried to one-up Johannes Ockeghem (oh-kuh-GHEM) with another of these movements featuring a three-voice mensuration canon.
  - A seventh voice is called for in the second of these movements in the otherwise six-voice Pope Marcellus Mass.
  - This portion of the mass, which Renaissance composers often divided into three parts, contains the "Dona Nobis Pacem" (DO-nah NOH-bis PAH-chem).
  - The phrase "who takes away the sin of the world" is repeated in this part of the mass, which typically follows the Sanctus.
  - This liturgical text is set in a choral arrangement of Samuel Barber's Adagio for Strings, whose inspiration from Virgil's Georgics shares this text's pastoral resonances.
  - For 10 points, name this Latin prayer that hails Jesus as the "Lamb of God." [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: masses [or messe or missa or missi; accept Missa Caput; accept Missa in Cuiusvis Toni; accept Messe de Nostre Dame; accept Missa L'homme Arme; accept Pope Marcellus Mass or Missa Papae Marcelli; accept requiem mass; prompt on requiem with "is an example of what type of piece?"]
  - An anonymous example of one of these pieces features a more than 100 note hold on its final word "caput." Another piece in this genre is named for the fact that it can be sung in either Dorian, Phrygian, Lydian, or Mixolydian.
  - Examples of these pieces from the Franco-Flemish school include one named for the song Pange Lingua.
  - "Parody" examples of these pieces based on the French song "L'homme Arme" were written by Johannes Ockeghem and Josquin des Prez.
  - A piece in this genre apocryphally "saved polyphony" from being banned by the Catholic Church at the Council of Trent.
  - For 10 points, identify this genre of choral music, exemplified by a Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina piece named after Pope Marcellus, which accompany church services. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: "L'homme arme" [accept "The Armed Man"]
  - One work based on this piece includes the Latin riddle "Ubi thesis assint ceptra, ibi arsis et e contra," instructing the tenors to exchange parts with the basses, in inversion.
  - This piece forms the basis of works that begin and end Ottaviano Petrucci's collection of works by one composer.
  - A headmotive based on In Hydraulis opens another work based on this piece; in that work, this piece begins on a progressively higher note of the hexachord in each section.
  - More recently, Peter Maxwell Davies and Karl Jenkins have written works based on this piece.
  - Busnoys may have written this song for Charles the Bold's Order of the Golden Fleece.
  - The lyrics of this piece state that "one should fear" its title figure and that everybody should acquire a "coat of iron mail." Josquin des Prez wrote masses "super voces musicales" and "sexti toni" based on this piece.
  - For 10 points, name this hit song of the 1400s, used as a cantus firmus in many masses. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The melody of this song in 3/4 time begins [read slowly] "G, G, up to C, C, B-flat, A, G." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "L'Homme Arme" ("LUM ar-MAY") [or "The Armed Man"]):
    Name this medieval song whose lyrics state that its title personage "should be feared," and whose melody was used as a cantus firmus in many settings of religious texts.
  Part 2 (ans: Josquin des Prez ("joe-SCAN deh PRAY") [or Josquin des Prez]):
    This man's two masses based on "L'Homme Arme" include one subtitled "super voces musicales." This man wrote Missa Pange Lingua, and was influenced by Johannes Ockeghem ("OCK-uh-ghem") as part of the Franco-Flemish School.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina):
    Seventy years after Josquin, this composer wrote his own "L'Homme Arme" mass. This man is most famous for his "Pope Marcellus" Mass, which, according to legend, saved polyphonic music from being banned.

[B2] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Along with his numerous other missa, like many early Renaissance composers, Johannes Ockeghem used this French secular song as the cantus firmus for one of his missae. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L'Homme Arme [accept The Armed Man]):
    Name this ubiquitous song from the Renaissance era depicting a soldier. This song states the title figure "should be feared" and Josquin set this song in the Hypolydian or "sexti toni" mode. He also used this song for a "super voces musicales" mass.
  Part 2 (ans: Guillaume Du Fay [accept Guillaume Du Fayt]):
    This Franco-Flemish composer is often credited with writing the first mass to use L'Homme Arme as a cantus firmus. This composer also celebrated Filippo Brunelleschi's completion of the dome of the Santa Maria della Fiore with his motet Nuper Rosarum Flores.

[B3] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Some scholars have hypothesized that this song's titular character may be St. Michael the Archangel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L'Homme Arme [or The Armed Man]):
    Name this secular song that was used as a cantus firmus for over 40 ordinary masses. Josquin des Prez notably used this song as a setting for two of his masses, one of which features an Agnus Dei in crab canon arrangement.
  Part 2 (ans: Guillaume Dufay):
    The earliest use of L'Homme Arme as a cantus firmus may have been by this Burgundian school composer who wrote the ballad Resvellies Vous to celebrate the marriage of Carlo Malatesta and Vittoria Colonna.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Palestrina):
    The use of secular songs such as L'Homme Arme as cantus firmus alarmed church leaders during Council of Trent. In an apocryphal story, this composer's Pope Marcellus Mass ended up "saving" polyphony during the Council of Trent.

[B4] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The quodlibet Il sera pour vous by Antoine Busnois (boon-WAH) is based on this melody. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "L'homme arme" (lum ar-MAY) [or "The Armed Man"]):
    Name this secular tune popular in the 15th and 16th centuries. Scholars disagree as to whether Busnois or Guillaume du Fay was the first composer to write a cantus firmus mass based on this tune.
  Part 2 (ans: Josquin des Prez (joe-SCAN deh PRAY) [prompt on des Prez]):
    This Franco-Flemish composer of the Missa pange lingua is best known for his two masses based on the "L'homme arme" melody.
  Part 3 (ans: canon):
    Josquin's Missa l'homme arme super voces musicales makes heavy use of the mensuration type of this imitative musical technique. It titles a D major chamber piece that Johann Pachelbel paired with a gigue (zheeg).

[B5] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer wrote a mass taking his own chanson "Se la face ay pale" as the cantus firmus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Guillaume Dufay [doo-fah-ee] [or Guillaume Du Fayt]):
    Name this 15th-century Burgundian composer who wrote the motet Nuper Rosarum Flores for the consecration of the Florence Cathedral.
  Part 2 (ans: fauxbourdon):
    Dufay was an early and prominent practitioner of this homophonic technique, in which three voices move in parallel motion, with the lower two voices a fourth and sixth respectively below the upper voice.
  Part 3 (ans: "L'homme arme"):
    Dufay is sometimes credited with being the first composer to write a mass based on this ubiquitous cantus firmus tune, which describes a soldier.

[B6] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Motets by this composer include a setting of the Miserere likely inspired by the execution of Savonarola and the four-part Ave Maria...virgo serena. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Josquin des Prez):
    Name this Franco-Flemish Renaissance composer who also commemorated his teacher Ockeghem's death with the piece Nymphes des bois.
  Part 2 (ans: "L'homme arme" [or "The Armed Man"]):
    Like many other Renaissance composers, Josquin composed two masses based on this popular French tune whose title figure "should be feared."
  Part 3 (ans: soggetto cavato):
    Josquin probably invented this technique named by Gioseffo Zarlino, in which a composer derives a tune from solmization syllables that correspond to the vowels in a phrase. He used it in his Missa Hercules dux Ferrariae.
