=== STOCK CLUES: Babbitt ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: soprano [accept dramatic, coloratura, or spinto soprano] (The Babbitt piece is Philomel.)
  - Flute, violin, percussion, and a singer with this voice type are featured in Kate Soper's chamber opera Ipsa Dixit. [PWR]
  - This voice type is sampled over a synthesizer in an Ovid-inspired piece by Milton Babbitt. [PWR]
  - In an orchestral piece, a singer with this voice type echoes the instrumental motif of E - G-sharp - F-sharp in the "Lento e largo-Tranquillissimo" second movement. [PWR]
  - Gepopo from Ligeti's  Le Grand Macabre is a difficult role for singers of this voice type, who often play conceited (*) soubrette roles in traditional operas.
  - A singer with this voice type sings a medieval Polish lament for Mary and a text from a concentration camp wall in Gorecki's  Symphony of Sorrowful Songs.
  - Singers with this voice type have a range between C4 and C6, and can be classified as spinto, dramatic, or coloratura.
  - For 10 points, what highest standard voice part is represented by the "S" in SATB choirs? [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Babbitt [or George Babbitt; or Irving Babbitt; or Milton Babbitt]
  - A character with this surname repeatedly dreams of romantic love in the form of a fairy-child. [PWR]
  - An author with this surname wrote a book which attacked as immoral both the formalism of Francis Bacon and the romanticism of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and, with Paul More, developed the school of New Humanism. [PWR]
  - In 1958, the magazine High Fidelity published an article by a person with this surname which claimed that (*) serious music had little appeal to the public. [PWR]
  - It is the last name of Milton, who wrote "Who Cares if You Listen?," and of Irving, who wrote Democracy and Leadership .
  - A character with this surname goes camping with his friend Paul Riesling in Maine, after which he discovers that Paul shot his own wife, Zilla.
  - For 10 points, give the surname of a Sinclair Lewis character who lives in Zenith. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Babbitt
  - Characters in this novel include a Traction Street Company executive whose daughter elopes with the protagonist's son and a failed poet who writes advertisement jingles.
  - This novel's protagonist, who is friends with Chum Frink and Howard Littlefield, gives an acclaimed speech in Monarch and declares his support for Lucas Prout.
  - The protagonist's best friend, who gave up his dreams of becoming a violinist to join the tar-roofing business, takes a liberating trip to Maine and shoots his wife Zilla.
  - The title character ultimately returns to his ill wife Myra and realizes he will never escape his bourgeois lifestyle.
  - For 10 points, name this novel about a real estate salesman from Zenith, written by Sinclair Lewis. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Babbitt
  - Two characters in this novel quarrel about the usefulness of a correspondence course on boxing after reading an ad that asks "CAN YOU PLAY A MAN'S PART?" One of this novel's chapters parallels awkward dinner parties with the McKelveys and the Overbrooks.
  - Its main character receives a private loan from William Washington Eathorne after helping him publicize the Sunday School of Reverend John Jennison Drew.
  - At the end of this novel, its main character declares that he has wasted his life making "a quarter of an inch out of a hundred possible rods" and encourages his son Ted to become a mechanic.
  - Its main character has a recurring dream about a romantic "fairy child," and rebels against his peers by supporting Seneca Doane during a strike.
  - Tanis Judique has an affair with this novel's title character, who becomes dissatisfied with his life after the incarceration of his best friend Paul Riesling.
  - For 10 points, name this 1922 novel about a conforming real estate agent by Sinclair Lewis. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Babbitt
  - One character in this work goes to his sister's room and dislikes her Joseph Conrad, Vachel Lindsay, and H.L. [PWR]
  - Mencken works before starting to read "The Three Black Pennies" by Joseph Hergesheimer for its good story-telling.
  - The main character of this work gets annoyed by his friend Sidney Finkelstein for explaining jokes, and he commends his son Ted for getting secretly married to his neighbor, Eunice. [PWR]
  - The main character of this novel falls in love with his wife again after she gets appendicitis despite having earlier cheated on her with (*) Tanis Judique. [PWR]
  - This novel's title character is distraught when he finds out that Zilla was shot by her husband Paul Reisling.
  - This novel centers on the father of Verona and Tinka and husband of Myra.
  - For 10 points, name this novel set in Zenith about the title real estate agent, by Sinclair Lewis. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In twelve-tone and serialist theory, two complementary sets of these musical series combine to form combinatorial aggregates. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hexachords [or hexachordon; accept magic hexachord; prompt on hexad or hexatonic]):
    Name these series that share their name with a mnemonic device created by the medieval music theorist Guido of Arezzo. A "magic" one of these series was used by Arnold Schoenberg in his piece Ode to Napoleon Buonaparte.
  Part 2 (ans: Milton Babbitt [or Milton Byron Babbitt]):
    The magic hexachord is one of the six all-combinatorial hexachord sets formulated as part of this composer's serialist theory. This composer attracted controversy for his article "The Composer as Specialist."
  Part 3 (ans: Second Viennese School [or Zweite Wiener Schule; or New Viennese School or Neue Wiener Schule; prompt on Viennese School; prompt on Vienna or Wien]):
    Hexachords are exhibited in the twelve-tone rows popularized by this school of composition based in an Austrian city. Along with Schoenberg, Alban Berg and Anton Webern were leading composers from this school.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man once declared, "I can't believe that people really prefer to go to the concert hall ... unable to repeat something they have missed, when they can sit home ... and hear it as they want to hear it." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milton Babbitt):
    Identify this composer behind the never-staged Broadway musical Fabulous Voyage. In 1948 he developed a system of durations for his Composition for Four Instruments.
  Part 2 (ans: Alex Ross):
    This classical music critic for the New Yorker declared Babbitt "produced music so byzantine in construction that one practically needed a security clearance to understand it." He wrote The Rest Is Noise.
  Part 3 (ans: Salome):
    The Rest Is Noise opens by describing the 1906 premiere of this Richard Strauss opera based on a play by Oscar Wilde. A New York audience covered their eyes during the scandalous "Dance of the Seven Veils" in this opera.

[B3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Current Events
     Leadin: This initiative led to a decrease in browsing on young willow and aspen plants, in turn causing there to be more willows available for beavers in wintertime, in turn causing a nine-fold increase in beaver colonies and dams. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the reintroduction of gray wolves to Yellowstone National Park [prompt on partial answers; prompt on, but do not otherwise reveal, answers mentioning the reintroduction of wolves in Montana, Wyoming, or Idaho]):
    Chad McKittrick's illegal killing of animal number ten and the northward migration of pregnant animal number nine were setbacks to what initiative that commemorated its 25th anniversary in 2020?
  Part 2 (ans: Idaho):
    This state, which shares Yellowstone National Park with its eastern neighbors Montana and Wyoming, initially opposed the wolf reintroduction plan. Mike Crapo ("CRAY-po") is the senior senator from this state.
  Part 3 (ans: Bruce Babbitt [or Bruce Edward Babbitt]):
    This Secretary of the Interior ceremoniously moved the first wolf crate into Yellowstone National Park. This man, who oversaw the creation of the National Conservation Lands, was accused of taking bribes to deny an Indian casino license in the so-called Wampumgate scandal.

[B4] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of a novel learns that his friend Paul Riesling shot his wife Zilla in the arm on the same day he is elected vice-president of this organization. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Zenith Boosters' Club [accept any answer involving a club or organization for boosting businesses; accept, but do not otherwise reveal the Booster Club from Babbitt]):
    Name this organization whose badge that character proudly wears every day. That character's middle name is revealed to be "Follansbee" at a luncheon hosted by this organization, for which he later gives a speech about being an "Ideal Citizen."
  Part 2 (ans: Babbitt):
    The title materialistic real estate agent of this Sinclair Lewis novel flaunts his vice presidency of the Booster's Club of Zenith.
  Part 3 (ans: U.S.A. trilogy [prompt on The 42nd Parallel, 1919, or The Big Money by asking "what larger series is that work a part of?"] (by John Dos Passos)):
    Babbitt has been analyzed through the lens of Thorstein Veblen, who is compared to Socrates in "The Bitter Drink," a biographical passage from this series by a contemporary of Lewis's. The "Body of an American" sketch in this series smashes together dozens of words about the military funeral of "John Doe."

[B5] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a 2009 performance, Diane Luchese actually followed this composer's tempo instructions for the piece As Slow as Possible, resulting a performance nearly fifteen hours long. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Cage):
    Name this composer who had David Tudor sit at the keyboard for the premiere of his piece 4'33".
  Part 2 (ans: Milton Babbitt):
    A 1987 New York Times article compared Cage with this composer of the electronic pieces Philomel and Correspondences as "two extremes of avant-garde music." His own article "The Composer as Specialist" was edited to have the scandalous title "Who Cares if You Listen?"
  Part 3 (ans: Juilliard School [accept Juilliard Quartet]):
    Milton Babbitt taught at this school, whose namesake string quartet has won five Grammy awards for chamber music. Many students at this school dual-enroll at Columbia University.

[B6] 2017 Thought Monstrosity (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Howard Hanson's book The Harmonic Materials of Modern Music introduced many notions important to this theory, including isomeric relations or Z-relations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: musical set theory):
    Name this musical theory developed by Allen Forte which analyses the relationships between collections of pitch classes.
  Part 2 (ans: Milton (Byron) Babbitt):
    Musical set theory also draws on this theorist's work on twelve-tone music. He compared music to advanced mathematics in his controversial article "Who Cares If You Listen?"
  Part 3 (ans: Arnold (Franz Walter) Schoenberg):
    "Who Cares If You Listen?" mostly focuses on serialism, which is exemplified by the twelve-tone technique of this composer of Pierrot Lunaire.

[B7] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's Philomel begins with the soprano soloist simply vocalizing the syllable "eeh" at various pitches, against the backdrop of a synthesizer and a recorded soprano. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milton Babbitt [or Milton Byron Babbitt]):
    Name this American composer who argued that dismissing modern music was just as absurd as dismissing advanced mathematics in the 1958 article "Who Cares If You Listen?".
  Part 2 (ans: John Cage [or John Milton Cage Jr.]):
    This contemporary of Babbitt used electronic instruments such as turntables and tape recordings in his five Imaginary Landscapes, and explored ambient sounds in his entirely silent composition 4 Minutes 33 Seconds.
  Part 3 (ans: Steve Reich [or Stephen Michael Reich]):
    This American composer's string quartet Different Trains is accompanied by tape recordings of interviews with Holocaust survivors.

[B8] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's title character shares his name with a professor who championed the prominent New Humanism movement, which this novel's author attacked for "confining literature to the fight between man's soul and God" or "evil." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Babbitt [by Sinclair Lewis] (the New Humanist professor is Irving Babbitt)):
    Name this novel whose title character takes pride in his "Solid Citizen" uniform, blesses his son Ted's elopement with Eunice, and has an extramarital affair with Tanis Judique.
  Part 2 (ans: Nobel Prize in Literature):
    Sinclair Lewis attacked the New Humanists in his address at the Swedish Academy while accepting this international literary award, whose last American winner was Toni Morrison in 1993.
  Part 3 (ans: H.L. Mencken [or Henry Louis Mencken]):
    This author, who also feuded with the New Humanists, quipped that "the chief goal of Protestantism" was to prove that "God is a bore." This "Sage of Baltimore" savaged the cultural and intellectual deficiencies of the American South in his "The Sahara of the Bozart" ["boh-zart"].

[B9] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: An Oregon state agency recommended that 300 acres of old growth forest be preserved around each known nest location of this species. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Northern spotted owl [or Strix occidentalis]):
    Identify this species whose addition to the "Red Book" in 1989 sparked a controversy between conservationists and loggers.
  Part 2 (ans: Endangered Species Act of 1973):
    The protections offered to the spotted owl and other nearly-extinct critters were codified in this 1973 legislation.
  Part 3 (ans: Bruce (Edward) Babbitt):
    This Secretary of the Interior under Bill Clinton and former Governor of Arizona added "No Surprises" and "Safe Harbor" policies towards enforcing the Endangered Species Act. He was implicated in denying permits to an Indian casino in Wisconsin in Wampumgate.

[B10] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel fires Stanley Graff for cheating his customers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Babbitt):
    Name this novel about a man whose friends include Vergil Gunch and Paul Riesling, who is imprisoned for shooting his wife Zilla.
  Part 2 (ans: Harry Sinclair Lewis):
    This author set Babbitt in the fictional city of Zenith in Winnemac, the same fictional state in which he set his novel Arrowsmith.
  Part 3 (ans: Myra Babbitt):
    This wife of Babbitt falls seriously ill, prompting him to break off his affair with Tanis and renew his devotion to her.

[B11] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Egyptian-American composer Halim El-Dabh created the frst piece using this medium, The Expression of Zaar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: magnetic tape [or tape loops; or prerecorded music; prompt on electronic music]):
    Name this medium, in which Steve Reich achieved "phasing" with his pieces "Come Out" and "It's Gonna Rain."
  Part 2 (ans: John (Milton) Cage Jr.):
    This composer scored his Williams Mix for eight simultaneously-playing magnetic tapes, but is better known for fre-quently consulting from the I Ching, and for his entirely environmental piece 4'33."
  Part 3 (ans: Milton (Byron) Babbitt):
    This American serialist created an electronic music piece that combines synthesizer with a live and recorded soprano's voice, titled Philomel, and defended his music from charges of inaccessibility in a High Fidelity article notoriously titled "Who Cares If You Listen?"

[B12] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following composers of electronic music, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Cage):
    This man called for such odd instruments as turntables and radio receivers in his Imaginary Landscapes. He's probably better known for a piece consisting entirely of silence, 4'33".
  Part 2 (ans: Edgard Varese):
    This man wrote his Poeme electronique for a pavilion at the 1958 World's Fair designed by Le Corbusier. He also composed Density 21.5 to mark the invention of the platinum flute.
  Part 3 (ans: Milton Babbitt):
    This American serial composer combined the synthesizer with both live and recorded soprano in his Philomel. Also noted for his contributions to theory, he examined the state of the avant-garde composer in an article for High Fidelity called "Who Cares if You Listen?"
