=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Carol Ann Duffy ===
(Questions where 'Carol Ann Duffy' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 6 found, 30 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Summoning of Everyman
  - One character in this play claims "I won't look back.
  - Not for all the gold in your chest" to a character who is called a "fool to complain" and is told to "hurry up and die" after suggesting to go into the earth and die.
  - A birthday party featuring the rap "What's God Like?
  - You're God Like" appears in an adaptation of this play by Carol Ann Duffy.
  - A robe wet with the tears of the title character is called a (*) "garment of sorrow" in this play, which ends with the declaration "he whose account is whole and sound, shall live in heaven." Although Five-Wits and Beauty abandon the title character on his journey, Good Deeds accompanies him beyond 
  - For 10 points, name this morality play, whose title character represents all of mankind.

[TM2] 2023 ah's modern poetry packets (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Great Expectations [accept the 59th or final chapter of Great Expectations]
  - The speaker of one poem inspired by this work repeats "God bless you!
  - God forgive you!" and claims, "I have been considerate and good, / I have been bent and broken".
  - That Richard Price poem composed of lines from this work is titled for the line "I am greatly changed".
  - Another poem inspired by this work states, (+)"Spinster.
  - I stink and remember" and ends, "Don't think it's only the heart that b-b-b-breaks".
  - That poem inspired by this work opens, "Beloved sweetheart bastard", and describes "Love's hate behind a white veil" and "the (*) dress / yellowing".
  - For 10 points, name this novel that inspired Carol Ann Duffy's poem "Havisham".

[TM3] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: "Rip Van Winkle"
  - This story titles a Carol Ann Duffy poem whose narrator "found some hobbies for myself," reimagining a character in this story who induces an "obsequious and conciliating nature" in the protagonist and dies from a broken blood vessel "in a fit of passion at a peddler." A man in this story encounters
  - This story's protagonist finds that his favorite inn has painted over one of its portraits to reflect their new head of state.
  - Upon seeing his rusted gun, this story's title character determines that a group of men playing ninepins drugged him in the Catskill Mountains.
  - For 10 points, the title farmer sleeps for 20 years in what story by Washington Irving?

[TM4] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Great Expectations
  - A character from this novel receives the first name Catherine in a novel by Ronald Frame, and warns "don't think it's only the heart that b-b-b-breaks" at the end of a poem by Carol Ann Duffy.
  - Thursday Next is apprenticed to a character from this novel in the literary police force Jurisfiction in Jasper Fforde's Lost in a Good Book.
  - Dolores steals a copy of this novel belonging to the bug-eyed Mr.
  - Watts in a book in which the name of this novel's protagonist is found carved into the sand by soldiers in the civil war on (*) Bougainville Island.
  - This novel's author is fictionalized as Tobias Oates in a novel whose title character gets a job as a servant in Percy Buckle's house while searching for Henry Phipps.
  - For 10 points, name this novel which inspired the novels Jack Maggs, Mister Pip and Havisham.

[TM5] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Barleycorn
  - A poem by Carol Ann Duffy repeatedly calls this figure a "Green Man" and says "I saw him in the Seven Stars, and in the Plough," as well as dozens upon dozens of other places.
  - In another poem, this figure is tied to a cart like a rogue being punished for forgery, then "cudgell'd ... full sore." That poem declares of this figure, "may his great posterity never fail." In a traditional song, this figure has clods thrown on his head after three men take a vow to kill him, but
  - A Jack (*) London novel named after this figure provides an early use of the image of drunk people hallucinating pink elephants.
  - This "inspiring bold" figure is told "what dangers thou canst make us scorn!" in Robert Burns' "Tam o' Shanter." For 10 points, name this personification of whiskey and beer, named after the grain from which they're made.

[TM6] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Everyman
  - Flemish scholars argue that Elckerlijc inspired this play in which one man states that he would rather eat bread and water for five years than accompany the title character, because he has a cramp in his toe.
  - Carol Ann Duffy and Hugo von Hofmannsthal created modern adaptations of this play, and Philip Roth named a novel after its line "Death, thou comest when I had thee least in mind." (*) Confession offers the eponymous protagonist a "precious jewel," while the Doctor reminds the audience that Beauty, F
  - For 10 points, name this 15th-century morality play, about a figure meant to represent a typical person.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author the speaker tells the reader she "made quite sure" a wolf spotted her for the sake of "poetry." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy(The collection is The World's Wife. The second poem is "Anne Hathaway.")):
    Name this poet whose speaker takes an axe to the wolf in "Little Red-Cap." She included a poem in the same collection about Shakespeare's wife who holds "him in the casket of my widow's head."
  Part 2 (ans: British Poet Laureate [or Poet Laureate of the UK; accept Poet Laureate of England; prompt on Poet Laureate by asking "of which country?"]):
    Carol Ann Duffy was the first woman to occupy this position. In 2019, Simon Armitage succeeded her in this position.
  Part 3 (ans: Gawain [or Sir Gawain]):
    Aside from writing poetry, Armitage also translated a middle English poem in which this character, not yet a member of King Arthur's Roundtable, returns to finish a beheading game with the Green Knight started at Christmas.

[BM2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In 2012, this poet published a verse translation of the Alliterative Morte Arthur titled The Death of King Arthur. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Simon Armitage [or Simon Robert Armitage]):
    Name this poet whose 2020 collection Magnetic Field focuses on the village of Marsden, West Yorkshire, where he grew up. In 2019, he succeeded Carol Ann Duffy as Poet Laureate of the UK.
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    In 2000, Armitage edited an anthology of poems by this fellow Yorkshireman. This author of "The Hawk in the Rain" made major changes to Ariel, a collection by his wifeSylvia Plath.
  Part 3 (ans: "V." [reject "five"]):
    Yorkshire is also the setting of this long Tony Harrison poem about finding his parents' gravestones defaced by Leeds United hooligans, including graffiti of the title symbol. It was denounced by Mary Whitehouse and the Daily Mail when it was presented on the BBC in 1987.

[BM3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author was censored in schools in 2008 on the basis of its references to knife crime. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    Name this author of the collection Standing Female Nude. This poet's poem "Education for Leisure" begins "Today I am going to kill something. Anything." and sees its speaker kill a fly and a goldfish.
  Part 2 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    Carol Ann Duffy was the first woman to hold this literary position, which she held from 2009 to 2019. Holders of this position, currently held by Simon Armitage, write verse for national occasions.
  Part 3 (ans: "Dear Norman"):
    Duffy's collection Standing Female Nude contains this other poem, also noted for the use of the voice of an outsider. This poem begins "I have turned the newspaper boy into a diver for pearls.".

[BM4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one poem, the speaker likens this person's words to "shooting stars which fell to Earth as kisses" after calling an heirloom "a spinning world of forests, castles, torchlight, [and] clifftops." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Shakespeare [or "On Shakespeare, 1630"] (The poems are "Anne Hathaway" by Carol Ann Duffy, and "On Shakespeare, 1630" by John Milton.)):
    Name this person who, in a John Milton poem, is addressed as a "son of Memory" that lies under a "star-ypointing pyramid."
  Part 2 (ans: Ariel):
    In "Anne Hathaway," Carol Ann Duffy likens Hathaway and Shakespeare's marriage bed to "seas where he would dive for pearls," potentially alluding to a song which this character sings. This spirit sings "Full Fathom Five."
  Part 3 (ans: Romeo and Juliet):
    In response to the censorship of one of her poems, Duffy wrote "Mrs. Schofield's GCSE," in which she references this Shakespeare play about "star-cross'd lovers" with a line about "Tybalt's death."

[BM5] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about characters from their depiction in Carol Ann Duffy's feminist poetry collection The World's Wife, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Faust [accept Doctor Faustus]):
    This man's wife declares "I keep [his] secret still- / the clever, cunning, callous bastard / didn't have a soul to sell." In Goethe's play about this man, he makes a deal with Mephistopheles.
  Part 2 (ans: Quasimodo [accept Mrs. Quasimodo; prompt on the Hunchback of Notre Dame]):
    After he loses interest in her, this character's wife "sawed and pulled and hacked/I wanted silence back." An 1831 novel ends with this character's skeleton discovered gripping that of a woman who is hanged by an Archdeacon.
  Part 3 (ans: Little Red Riding Hood [or Little Red Cap]):
    The first poem of the collection describes how this "sweet sixteen, never been, babe" "took an axe / To a willow to see how it wept" before cutting a character open. An Anne Sexton poem in "Transformations" named for this character describes an animal's body filled with stones.

[BM6] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: POV: You have two legs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Standing Female Nude"):
    In this poem by Carol Ann Duffy, the narrator imagines that the "bourgeoisie will coo // at such an image of a river-whore". This poem ends with the narrator remarking "it does not look like me" in reference to an artist's completed product.
  Part 2 (ans: "When I consider how my light is spent"):
    This other poem concludes by noting that "they also serve those who only stand and wait". The author of this poem also wrote [emphasize] another poem which notes that the mind "can make a heav'n of hell, a hell of heav'n".
  Part 3 (ans: "Dover Beach"):
    This other poem describes how "the cliffs of England stand" and is about a place where "ignorant armies clash by night". A parody of this poem begins by saying "So there stood Matthew Arnold and this girl".

[BM7] 2023 British Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Carol Ann Duffy poem, one of these objects is gifted instead of a "red rose or satin heart". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: an onion):
    Name this object mentioned in the poem Valentine. Duffy describes this object as a "moon wrapped in brown paper" that will "will blind you with tears/like a lover."
  Part 2 (ans: wedding rings):
    Later in Valentine, Duffy suggests the onion's "Platinum Loops" could shrink to become one of these objects. Another Duffy poem titled for these objects was written for the Royal Wedding in 2011, where these objects were exchanged during the ceremony.
  Part 3 (ans: Simon Armitage):
    Duffy wrote the poem Rings in her role as Poet Laureate. She was succeeded in that role in 2019 by this poet, whose work includes the collection The Not Dead.

[BM8] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Kae Tempest's poetry collection Hold Your Own explores this figure's life through sections such as "Manhood," "Womanhood," and "Blind Profit" and includes an epigraph from Oedipus Rex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tiresias [do not accept or prompt on "Mrs. Tiresias"]):
    Name this figure from Greek mythology. A poem from the view of this character's fictional wife describes how this figure "went out for his walk a man / and came home female."
  Part 2 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    An earlier poetry collection by Tempest, Brand New Ancients, won the Ted Hughes Award, which was funded by this poet. This poet described "Mrs. Tiresias" and other reimagined females in her collection The World's Wife.
  Part 3 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    Both Ted Hughes and Carol Ann Duffy held this position in the United Kingdom, which is currently held by Simon Armitage.

[BM9] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Sixty-Six Books, a project to write one play for every book of the Bible, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Jeanette Winterson (The unnamed novel is Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit)):
    A Brooklyn-accented God, played by Catherine Tate, tweets, "People ask me how I came to be a global brand" in Godblog, a retelling of Genesis by this author. This author's most famous novel, in which a Pentecostal girl discovers that she is attracted to women, has chapters named after books of the B
  Part 2 (ans: Anne Carson):
    For the project, this author wrote The Goat at Midnight based on the Epistle of Jude. This Canadian author wrote about Geryon ("GER-ee-uhn") in her verse novel Autobiography of Red.
  Part 3 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    Recent holders of this post who wrote for the project include Andrew Motion and Carol Ann Duffy. This honorary position appointed by the UK monarch has been held by John Masefield and Alfred, Lord Tennyson.

[BM10] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author discussed the "school of the dead," the "school of dreams," and the "school of roots" in Three Steps on the Ladder of Writing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helene Cixous ("ay-LEN seek-SOO")):
    Name this author who called for women writers to proclaim a "unique empire" in an essay that uses "white ink" as a metaphor for her concept of ecriture feminine.
  Part 2 (ans: Medusa [or la meduse]):
    That Cixous essay is titled for the "laugh" of this figure from Greek mythology. In a Carol Ann Duffy poem, this snake-haired figure describes turning a bee into "a dull grey pebble" with her gaze.
  Part 3 (ans: Clarice Lispector [or Chaya Pinkhasivna Lispector] (That novel is The Hour of the Star.)):
    Cixous's essay "The Hour of [this author]" is titled in reference to a novel by this Brazilian author in which Macabea is hit by a car after having her fortune told.

[BM11] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet with this surname asks, "If swans can rain / white rape from heaven, then what is a girl to do?" in their poem "True Myth." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Erdrich [accept Heid E. Erdrich or Louise Erdrich or Karen Louise Erdrich] (The novel is Love Medicine)):
    Give this surname shared by a sibling who wrote a novel that opens with June Kashpaw dying as she walks home in a snowstorm.
  Part 2 (ans: Elvis Presley [accept either; accept Elvis Aaron Presley; accept "Indigenous Elvis Works the Medicine Line"]):
    Heid. E Erdrich created a "poem film" about a man working at the Medicine Line who resembles this singer. In a Carol Ann Duffy poem, this singer's "twin sister" thinks of Graceland and prays for the "soul of rock n' roll."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Gift Outright" (the Erdrich poem is "The Theft Outright")):
    This Robert Frost poem inspired a Heid. E Erdrich poem which asks, "What's America, but the legend of Rock 'n' Roll?" That Erdrich poem's opening line subverts this poem's opening line, "The land was ours before we were the land's."

[BM12] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A play in this genre was adapted by Carol Ann Duffy for a 2015 production at the National Theatre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: morality play):
    Name this genre of drama, which developed from mystery plays in the fifteenth century. In another play in this genre, Mankind is tempted by a series of demons against the advice of Mercy.
  Part 2 (ans: Everyman):
    Duffy adapted this best-known morality play in which the title character prepares for death by trying to find someone to accompany them beyond the grave; only Good Deeds is able to do this.
  Part 3 (ans: Knowledge):
    This character in Everyman speaks the line 'Everyman, I will go with thee, and be thy guide'. This character accompanies Everyman up to the moment of death, but not beyond.

[BM13] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In "Health Advice," this poet suggested that "If you want to stay alive / sit and read a book." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wendy Cope):
    Identify this poet of the 2018 collection Anecdotal Evidence. This poet lamented "The leaves have fallen / and the snow has fallen and / soon my hair also" in the second of three haikus written as the fictitious Jason Strugnell.
  Part 2 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom [do NOT accept "Poet Laureate of the United States"]):
    Cope expressed distaste for this position, citing Kipling's view that "a poet has no business becoming an employee of the state." Carol Ann Duffy held it until 2019, when she was succeeded by Simon Armitage.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Convergence of the Twain" (The second poem is by Thomas Hardy.)):
    In response to 9/11, Armitage pictured a "half-excoriated Apple Mac" that "still quotes the Dow Jones" in a poem with this title. An earlier poem with this title attributes the sinking of the Titanic to the "Immanent Will that stirs and urges everything."

[BM14] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Carol Ann Duffy poem, this character "took an axe to a willow to see how it wept" and "took an axe to a salmon to see it leapt." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Little Red Riding Hood [or Little Red Cap]):
    Name this fairy tale character who "took an axe to the wolf" and "saw the glistening, virgin white of my grandmother's bones" in that poem. She is named for an accessory with a certain color.
  Part 2 (ans: Angela Olive Carter [or Angela Pearce; or Angela Stalker]):
    In this author's retelling, Little Red Riding Hood sleeps with the wolf instead. This author of Nights at the Circus included many fairy tale retellings in The Bloody Chamber.
  Part 3 (ans: The Handmaid's Tale):
    Outfits featuring red cloaks in this novel allude to Little Red Riding Hood. In this novel, Nick and the Commander are thought to be stand-ins for the huntsman and the wolf.

[BM15] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the start of this novel Freddie Green spends much of his time ogling the title figure from across the quad in the early evening sunlight before blackout. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sparsholt Affair):
    Name this 2017 novel in which the titular event takes place just before the decriminalization of homosexuality while the central character Johnny is married to Connie.
  Part 2 (ans: Alan Hollinghurst):
    The Sparsholt Affair is a novel by this Booker Prize-winning author of The Swimming Pool Library.
  Part 3 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    While at Oxford, Hollinghurst shared a house with Andrew Motion, the predecessor to Carol Ann Duffy in this role.

[BM16] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet compared love to "fish and chips on winter nights" and "blankets full of strange delights". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adrian Henri):
    Name this British Beat poet of "Love Is" and "I Want to Print", who spent the 1970s in a relationship with Carol Ann Duffy.
  Part 2 (ans: Liverpool):
    Henri was a poet from this British city, where he came to prominence as part of its Merseybeat movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Roger McGough):
    Henri co-authored the collection The Mersey Sound with Brian Patten and this other poet, who wrote "Let me die a young man's death." He also presents Poetry Please on Radio 4.

[BM17] 2018 ACF Fall (2018) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: In the poem "Silver Lining," Carol Ann Duffy describes how the flight cancellations of this year enabled her to hear "the music silence summons, that Shakespeare heard." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 2010):
    Name this year in which an eruption of Eyjafjallajokull ["AY-ah-FEE-ut-la-YEH-kee-tull"] volcano created a giant ash cloud over Europe, grounding all flights on the continent from late April to early May.
  Part 2 (ans: Iceland):
    Eyjafjallajokull is located in the Suðurland region of this country. During the 2010 flight disruptions, many tourists were unable to fly out of Keflavik International Airport, which serves this country's capital city, Reykjavik.
  Part 3 (ans: Poland):
    Due to the flight cancellations, many world leaders were unable to attend the 2010 funeral of Lech Kaczynski ["LEKH kuh-CHIN-skee"], the president of this country, who had died in a plane crash unrelated to the volcanic ash cloud.

[BM18] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet of the 2011 collection Family Values was a favorite for Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom in 2009, but the honor went to Carol Ann Duffy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wendy Cope):
    Name this contemporary English poet who closed her collection Making Cocoa for Kingsley Amis with the title poem stating, "I knew it wouldn't be much of a poem / But I love the title."
  Part 2 (ans: The Waste Land):
    Making Cocoa for Kingsley Amis contains a group of limericks summarizing this T. S. Eliot poem beginning "April is the cruelest month." The last limerick ends, "I hope you'll make sense of the notes."
  Part 3 (ans: Edward "Ted" Hughes):
    Cope had previously missed out at becoming the UK's Poet Laureate in 1998, after the death of this man who had held the post from 1984. His poetry collections include The Hawk in the Rain and Birthday Letters.

[BM19] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The first holder of this post was Joseph Auslander, who was succeeded by Allen Tate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United States Poet Laureate [or the even more pretentious Poet Laureate Consultant to the Library of Congress]):
    Name this post, currently held by Natasha Trethaway. Its British analogue has been held by Alfred Tennyson and is currently held by Carol Ann Duffy.
  Part 2 (ans: Gwendolyn Brooks):
    This author of In the Mecca was appointed Poet Laureate in 1985. One of her poems describes a group of figures that "Jazz June" and "die soon."
  Part 3 (ans: Billy Collins):
    This former U.S. Poet Laureate wrote "Horoscopes for the Dead" as well as The Art of Drowning. This author of "The Lanyard" and "Forgetfulness" guest hosted "The Writer's Almanac" in 2013.
