=== STOCK CLUES: Carol Ann Duffy ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 8 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Carol Ann Duffy (The first poem is "Mrs. Beast.")
  - This author ended a poem by referencing Auden with the line, "Bring me the wine-cellar key. [PWR]
  - Let the less-loving one be me." This poet wrote, "we stay trapped in time, / queuing for death," in a poem which begins, "Thought of by you all day, I think of you." A poem by this author which ends with the speaker stating "Long time since I walked / down Lonely Street / towards Heartbreak Hotel" is from a collection also containing a poem whose speaker recounts how her husband "held me upon that (*) next best bed." Chiwetel Ejiofor starred in this author's adaptation of Everyman.
  - This author of Rapture included "Elvis's Twin Sister" and "Anne Hathaway" in a collection told from the perspectives of female counterparts of famous men.
  - In 2019, this poet was succeeded in one honorary position by Simon Armitage.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of The World's Wife, the first female British poet laureate. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Carol Ann Duffy
  - This poet wrote a response to Robert Burns's "Mary Morison" in which the speaker describes "hours and wishes and trysts / less than the shadows of clouds on grass" and says love is "itself a metaphor, rose red." This poet of "Sung" created a speaker who defends gifting their lover an onion by stating "Its platinum loops shrink to a wedding ring / if you like" in "Valentine." This author wrote "If poetry could truly tell it backwards, / then it would" in a poem that inverts (*) Wilfred Owen's "Dulce et Decorum Est." This author eulogized two of the longest-lived veterans of World War One in the poem "Last Post." The statement "It does not look like me" ends this author's poem written from the perspective of an artist's model. [PWR]
  - This author of "Standing Female Nude" wrote the collections Rapture and The World's Wife.
  - For 10 points, what lesbian Scottish author was the British Poet Laureate until May 2019? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Warsan Shire poem set at a center for this process, the speaker calls themselves "bloated with language I can't afford to forget" and has a mouth that "becomes a sink full of blood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: deportation [accept word forms such as being deported; accept deportation to Nigeria, but not to other countries; prompt on expulsion] (The Shire poem is "Conversations About Home (at the Deportation Centre).")):
    Name this process. While living in England, Obinze is forced to undergo this process on the day of his wedding to Cleotilde in Chimamanda Adichie's novel Americanah.
  Part 2 (ans: Scotland [accept Alba; prompt on United Kingdom; reject "England" or "Great Britain"] (The poet is Carol Ann Duffy.)):
    The speaker wonders how to tell her daughter they're being deported in "Whilst Leila Sleeps," a poem by a poet from this country. That poet, Jackie Kay, dated a poet from this country who wrote Standing Female Nude and The World's Wife.
  Part 3 (ans: the Wife of Bath [prompt on "The Wife of Bafa" or The Wife of Willesden]):
    A Patience Agbabi poem reimagines this character as a Nigerian immigrant named "Mrs Alice Ebi Bafa." A Zadie Smith play set in 18th-century Jamaica retells this Chaucer character's tale about what women desire most.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author the speaker tells the reader she "made quite sure" a wolf spotted her for the sake of "poetry." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy(The collection is The World's Wife. The second poem is "Anne Hathaway.")):
    Name this poet whose speaker takes an axe to the wolf in "Little Red-Cap." She included a poem in the same collection about Shakespeare's wife who holds "him in the casket of my widow's head."
  Part 2 (ans: British Poet Laureate [or Poet Laureate of the UK; accept Poet Laureate of England; prompt on Poet Laureate by asking "of which country?"]):
    Carol Ann Duffy was the first woman to occupy this position. In 2019, Simon Armitage succeeded her in this position.
  Part 3 (ans: Gawain [or Sir Gawain]):
    Aside from writing poetry, Armitage also translated a middle English poem in which this character, not yet a member of King Arthur's Roundtable, returns to finish a beheading game with the Green Knight started at Christmas.

[B3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author was censored in schools in 2008 on the basis of its references to knife crime. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    Name this author of the collection Standing Female Nude. This poet's poem "Education for Leisure" begins "Today I am going to kill something. Anything." and sees its speaker kill a fly and a goldfish.
  Part 2 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    Carol Ann Duffy was the first woman to hold this literary position, which she held from 2009 to 2019. Holders of this position, currently held by Simon Armitage, write verse for national occasions.
  Part 3 (ans: "Dear Norman"):
    Duffy's collection Standing Female Nude contains this other poem, also noted for the use of the voice of an outsider. This poem begins "I have turned the newspaper boy into a diver for pearls.".

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker asks if it was "So very hard to die" in a poem in which this figure is asked to stand "Flame-capped, and shout for me," titled for this figure "in the Trench." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Achilles [accept "Achilles in the Trench" or "The Shield of Achilles"]):
    Name this mythological figure whose mother "of the shining breasts / Cried out in dismay" in a W. H. Auden poem about his shield. This man kills Hector in The Iliad.
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    The title man "survives among hills" while "the dust of Achilles and Cuchulain itches" in this author's poem "Dick Straightup." This poet described a "hot stink of fox" in "The Thought-Fox," part of the collection The Hawk in the Rain.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    This poet mythologized David Beckham as Achilles in a poem about Beckham's Achilles tendon injury. Famous men's female counterparts narrate several dramatic monologues in this poet's collection The World's Wife.

[B5] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one poem, the speaker likens this person's words to "shooting stars which fell to Earth as kisses" after calling an heirloom "a spinning world of forests, castles, torchlight, [and] clifftops." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Shakespeare [or "On Shakespeare, 1630"] (The poems are "Anne Hathaway" by Carol Ann Duffy, and "On Shakespeare, 1630" by John Milton.)):
    Name this person who, in a John Milton poem, is addressed as a "son of Memory" that lies under a "star-ypointing pyramid."
  Part 2 (ans: Ariel):
    In "Anne Hathaway," Carol Ann Duffy likens Hathaway and Shakespeare's marriage bed to "seas where he would dive for pearls," potentially alluding to a song which this character sings. This spirit sings "Full Fathom Five."
  Part 3 (ans: Romeo and Juliet):
    In response to the censorship of one of her poems, Duffy wrote "Mrs. Schofield's GCSE," in which she references this Shakespeare play about "star-cross'd lovers" with a line about "Tybalt's death."

[B6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author, "poetry" is given as the reason why a character lets a wolf buy her a drink and then kills him with an ax 10 years later. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    Name this author of "Little Red-Cap." This author collected poems about female counterparts to famous male figures such as Charles Darwin and Pontius Pilate in The World's Wife.
  Part 2 (ans: William Shakespeare):
    In a poem from The World's Wife, this man's widow reflects on being bequeathed his "second best bed." That poem, "Anne Hathaway," is set after this author is buried in his birthplace of Stratford-upon-Avon.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy Wordsworth [accept descriptions involving William Wordsworth's sister; prompt on Wordsworth] (The first poem is "Dorothy Wordsworth's Christmas Birthday." The second poem is "Tintern Abbey" by William Wordsworth.)):
    Description acceptable. In a Duffy poem, this person "ages one year in an hour" waiting to celebrate her "Christmas Birthday." A poem addressing this person as a "dear, dear Friend" notes that "five years have past" since a visit to the title place.

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poetry performance collective named for this city's "Scene" became sufficiently popular to open for Led Zeppelin on a 1969 tour. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Liverpool [accept The Liverpool Scene or Liverpool poets]):
    Name this city. The Sound of this U.K. city's main river names an influential 1960s collection compiling poems by Roger McGough, Adrian Henri, and Brian Patten.
  Part 2 (ans: Penguin Books [or Penguin Modern Poets; or Penguin Modern Classics]):
    The Mersey Sound is an entry in this publisher's "Modern Poets" series. Paperbacks were partly popularized by the "Modern Classics" series released by this British publisher, which is named for a bird.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    Adrian Henri, one of the poets featured in The Mersey Sound, later had a decade-long relationship with this Scottish poet of The World's Wife. In 2009, this poet became the first woman and first lesbian to be selected as British Poet Laureate.

[B8] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Kae Tempest's poetry collection Hold Your Own explores this figure's life through sections such as "Manhood," "Womanhood," and "Blind Profit" and includes an epigraph from Oedipus Rex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tiresias [do not accept or prompt on "Mrs. Tiresias"]):
    Name this figure from Greek mythology. A poem from the view of this character's fictional wife describes how this figure "went out for his walk a man / and came home female."
  Part 2 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    An earlier poetry collection by Tempest, Brand New Ancients, won the Ted Hughes Award, which was funded by this poet. This poet described "Mrs. Tiresias" and other reimagined females in her collection The World's Wife.
  Part 3 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    Both Ted Hughes and Carol Ann Duffy held this position in the United Kingdom, which is currently held by Simon Armitage.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about British literature inspired by Brexit.
  Part 1 (ans: Smith [accept Ali Smith; or Zadie Smith; or Sadie Smith]):
    A Scottish author with this surname wrote the "first serious post Brexit novel," Autumn, about the relationship between a 101-year-old retired songwriter and a young lecturer. Another author with this surname wrote the postcolonial novel White Teeth.
  Part 2 (ans: Ian McEwan [or Ian Russell McEwan]):
    The Cockroach, a recent political satire by this British author, follows a man who wakes up as Prime Minister who must get Britain to leave the EU. This author wrote about the double murder of Clive and Vernon in his novel Amsterdam.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    This author, who was succeeded in May 2019 by Simon Armitage as Poet Laureate, anthropomorphized the UK in her post Brexit poem "Campaign." Three female Magi appear in her poem "Queen Herod," which she included in her collection The World's Wife.

[B10] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Thom Yorke based the Radiohead song "Subterranean Homesick Alien" on a school assignment to imitate the style of a poetry movement named for this sort of creature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martians [or aliens from Mars; accept Martian poetry or Martian school of poetry; prompt on aliens or extraterrestrials or ETs by asking "from where?"; prompt on tripods by asking "piloted by creatures from where?"]):
    Name this sort of figure, the namesake of a school of poetry led by Craig Raine that sought to defamiliarize ordinary life. These creatures invade Earth in H. G. Wells's The War of the Worlds.
  Part 2 (ans: books [accept equivalents including poetry collections and printed books; or incunabula; accept "The Argument of His Book"]):
    Raine's "A Martian Sends a Postcard Home" calls these objects "caxtons" after the man who first made them in England. Robert Herrick listed items like "blossoms, birds, and bowers ("BAO-ers")" in an "Argument" of one of these things.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    This poet of "Warming Her Pearls" is a member of the "New Generation" that succeeded the Martian school. The speaker recalls turning a "buzzing bee" to a "dull grey pebble" in this poet's "Medusa."

[B11] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by this author interweaves the narrative of the recently-bereaved British teenager George and the narrative of the Renaissance fresco painter Francesco del Cossa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ali Smith):
    Name this Scottish author whose Booker Prize-nominated novels include How to be Both and a 2016 novel about centenarian songwriter Daniel Gluck.
  Part 2 (ans: Autumn [do not accept or prompt on "Fall"]):
    That latter novel by Smith, which has been called the first post-Brexit novel, has this title. This season is also the subject of a Keats ode, which describes it as the "season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close bosom-friend of the maturing sun."
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    The Brexit vote also inspired the play My Country: A Work in Progress by this Scottish poet and playwright. Her poetry collections include The World's Wife, and she is the current British Poet Laureate.

[B12] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: According to this collection, Pontius Pilate's fingernails were "like shells from Galilee", and a campanologist "fucked [Mrs Quasimodo] underneath the gaping, stricken bells". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The World's Wife):
    Women of literature and history share their stories in this collection of poems, which opens with Little Red Cap.
  Part 2 (ans: Dame Carol Ann Duffy):
    The World's Wife was written by this feminist Poet Laureate, who also won the T.S. Eliot Prize for her anthology, Rapture.
  Part 3 (ans: Elvis's Twin Sister):
    A nun thinks of her convent as "a land of grace" in this poem in The World's Wife. Its speaker says it has been a long time since she "walked down Lonely Street / towards Heartbreak Hotel".

[B13] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington" and "Charge of the Light Brigade" were both written by a holder of this office. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    Name this honorary literary position in the United Kingdom, holders of which are expected to write poetry for important national events. Alfred Tennyson had this role for 42 years, and Ted Hughes had this role for 14 years.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This first official poet laureate under Charles II received an annual "butt of Canary wine" along with his monetary salary. His works include Annus Mirabilis and the satirical Mac Flecknoe.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    This current British poet laureate is the first woman, Scot, or openly LGBT person to hold the position. She wrote from the perspective of an artist's model in "Standing Female Nude," which also titles her first collection.
