=== STOCK CLUES: The World's Wife ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: wife [or wives; accept The World's Wife or "The Wife's Lament" or The Country Wife or "The Wife of Bath's Tale"]
  - A collection named for this type of person includes a poem whose speaker is a nun who "tends the gardens" and "prays for the immortal soul of rock 'n' roll," entitled "Elvis's Twin Sister." One of these people complains about being forced to live under an oak tree in an "earthen cave" in a "lament" found in the Exeter Book.
  - In a play named after this type of person, Mrs.
  - Squeamish and Sir Jasper Fidget are oblivious to the double entendres in Horner's description of his china collection.
  - After tearing several pages out of a book, one of these people is struck by Jankyn.
  - That one of these people tells the story of a knight who, at the orders of Queen Guinevere, strikes a deal with an old woman to learn what it is that women desire most.
  - For 10 points, one of the Canterbury Tales is told by what type of person from Bath? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author the speaker tells the reader she "made quite sure" a wolf spotted her for the sake of "poetry." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy(The collection is The World's Wife. The second poem is "Anne Hathaway.")):
    Name this poet whose speaker takes an axe to the wolf in "Little Red-Cap." She included a poem in the same collection about Shakespeare's wife who holds "him in the casket of my widow's head."
  Part 2 (ans: British Poet Laureate [or Poet Laureate of the UK; accept Poet Laureate of England; prompt on Poet Laureate by asking "of which country?"]):
    Carol Ann Duffy was the first woman to occupy this position. In 2019, Simon Armitage succeeded her in this position.
  Part 3 (ans: Gawain [or Sir Gawain]):
    Aside from writing poetry, Armitage also translated a middle English poem in which this character, not yet a member of King Arthur's Roundtable, returns to finish a beheading game with the Green Knight started at Christmas.

[B2] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: According to this collection, Pontius Pilate's fingernails were "like shells from Galilee", and a campanologist "fucked [Mrs Quasimodo] underneath the gaping, stricken bells". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The World's Wife):
    Women of literature and history share their stories in this collection of poems, which opens with Little Red Cap.
  Part 2 (ans: Dame Carol Ann Duffy):
    The World's Wife was written by this feminist Poet Laureate, who also won the T.S. Eliot Prize for her anthology, Rapture.
  Part 3 (ans: Elvis's Twin Sister):
    A nun thinks of her convent as "a land of grace" in this poem in The World's Wife. Its speaker says it has been a long time since she "walked down Lonely Street / towards Heartbreak Hotel".
