=== STOCK CLUES: Ted Hughes ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 20 found, 60 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Sylvia Plath's children [or Ted Hughes's children; accept synonyms for children like kids; accept Frieda Hughes AND Nicholas Hughes; prompt on children or synonyms by asking "whose children?"; prompt on Sylvia Plath's family or Ted Hughes's family] (The 2003 film is Sylvia.)
  - Description acceptable.
  - One of these people suddenly cries, "Moon!
  - Moon!" in a poem in which "The moon has stepped back like an artist gazing amazed at a work." An elegy describes these people as "two meteors / wandering loose in a tiny" room.
  - One of these people criticized filmmakers for wanting to "fill the mouth of their monster... who will walk and talk / And die at will" in a poem responding to a 2003 BBC film starring Gwyneth Paltrow. [PWR]
  - In a poem, the "moth-breath" of one of these people "flickers among the flat pink roses." One of these people tries (*) "Your handful of notes; / The clear vowels rise like balloons" in a poem that tells her "Love set you going like a fat gold watch." Poems about these people include "Nick and the Candlestick," "Full Moon and Little Frieda," and "Morning Song." For 10 points, identify these two people, who slept in a room sealed by the poet of Ariel before she killed herself. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ah's modern poetry packets (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Frieda Hughes [or Frieda Rebecca Hughes; prompt on Hughes; prompt on descriptions of the daughter of Sylvia Plath or Ted Hughes before mention]
  - This poet wrote, "If you could look away, / The pedestals of your feet might move" in a poem titled for a figure "Whose young have rooted / In the very flesh of her scalp".
  - This poet of "Medusa" wrote, "they do [a certain action] annually, or weekly, / Some even do it daily" in a poem that describes (+) "peanut eaters, entertained".
  - In that poem, this poet references a February 11, 1963 event by describing "the ability / To imagine the body, head in (*) oven, / Orphaning children". [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this British-Australian poet of "My Mother", the daughter of Sylvia Plath. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes [both answers required; prompt if only one answer given and it's correct]
  - Note to players: two answers required. [PWR]
  - One of these two poets addressed the other in a poem which recalls 'Two days of dangling nothing. [PWR]
  - Two days gratis.' and describes a letter as 'A thunderbolt that could not earth itself.' The poem "Arraignment", by Robin Morgan, makes controversial claims about these two poets.
  - One of these poets described clothes worn by the other in 'The Blue Flannel Suit', set on the day that poet began teaching at Smith College. [PWR]
  - One of these poets addressed the other in (*) "Last Letter", and the other described them as "the brute brute heart of a brute like you". [PWR]
  - These two poets' relationship is depicted in the collection Birthday Letters.
  - One of these poets depicted a 'man in black with a Meinkampf look' shortly after separating from the other.
  - For 10 points, name these two poets, one of whom wrote Ariel, the other a previous British poet laureate. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ted Hughes
  - One poem about this person asks "what fires run, what craving wakes?" within them, and describes this person as a "panther" following the poet.
  - In another poem, this person is equated with the figure of Kindness who hands the poet (*) "two children, two roses". [PWR]
  - Another poem implies that this person was "the vampire who said he was you and drank my blood"; that poem appears in a collection put together by this man in 1965.
  - For 10 points, name this man with a "Meinkampf look" who responded to works like "Daddy" with his own collection Birthday Letters, the poet husband of Sylvia Plath. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In 2012, this poet published a verse translation of the Alliterative Morte Arthur titled The Death of King Arthur. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Simon Armitage [or Simon Robert Armitage]):
    Name this poet whose 2020 collection Magnetic Field focuses on the village of Marsden, West Yorkshire, where he grew up. In 2019, he succeeded Carol Ann Duffy as Poet Laureate of the UK.
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    In 2000, Armitage edited an anthology of poems by this fellow Yorkshireman. This author of "The Hawk in the Rain" made major changes to Ariel, a collection by his wifeSylvia Plath.
  Part 3 (ans: "V." [reject "five"]):
    Yorkshire is also the setting of this long Tony Harrison poem about finding his parents' gravestones defaced by Leeds United hooligans, including graffiti of the title symbol. It was denounced by Mary Whitehouse and the Daily Mail when it was presented on the BBC in 1987.

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker asks if it was "So very hard to die" in a poem in which this figure is asked to stand "Flame-capped, and shout for me," titled for this figure "in the Trench." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Achilles [accept "Achilles in the Trench" or "The Shield of Achilles"]):
    Name this mythological figure whose mother "of the shining breasts / Cried out in dismay" in a W. H. Auden poem about his shield. This man kills Hector in The Iliad.
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    The title man "survives among hills" while "the dust of Achilles and Cuchulain itches" in this author's poem "Dick Straightup." This poet described a "hot stink of fox" in "The Thought-Fox," part of the collection The Hawk in the Rain.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    This poet mythologized David Beckham as Achilles in a poem about Beckham's Achilles tendon injury. Famous men's female counterparts narrate several dramatic monologues in this poet's collection The World's Wife.

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by Seamus Heaney, the speaker says that a collection by this author was like "a bridge I had passed under- / The single span and bull's eye of the one / Over the railway lines at Anahorish." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    Name this author who collaborated with Heaney on the anthology The Rattle Bag. After this poet's death, Seamus Heaney wrote a poem titled "On First Looking Into" this author's collection Birthday Letters.
  Part 2 (ans: Ireland [or Republic of Ireland or Eire; accept "Great Irish Pike"]):
    Hughes and Heaney's mutual friend Barrie Cooke, with whom they went fishing, illustrated a Hughes poem about a "Great Pike" from this country. Seamus Heaney is from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: hawks [accept "The Hawk in the Rain"; prompt on birds]):
    In Heaney's poem "Twice Shy," the speaker compares a walk to these animals' conduct. Hughes wrote about one of these animals mixing "his heart's blood with the mire of the land" in a poem that titles his first collection.

[B4] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title figure of a poem by this author "flies the black flag of himself" after "nailing heaven and earth together." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    Name this English poet of the collection Crow. The speaker of a poem by this author tells the addressee "the jewel you lost was blue" in "Red," a poem from his 1998 collection Birthday Letters.
  Part 2 (ans: Porter [accept Max Porter; accept Katherine Anne Porter]):
    Following the death of his wife, a fictional Ted Hughes scholar is watched over by an immature Crow in Grief is the Thing with Feathers, a prose poem written by an author with this last name. A different author with this surname wrote the brief novel Noon Wine.
  Part 3 (ans: Sylvia Plath):
    Max Porter, a scholar of Ted Hughes himself, stopped reading him after allegations emerged that Hughes abused this addressee of Birthday Letters, a poet whose collection Ariel was published after her suicide.

[B5] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker finds this person's bones "Enlisted in a cramped necropolis" and his "speckled stone askew by an iron fence" in the poem "Electra on Azalea Path." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sylvia Plath's father [or Otto Emil Plath; accept "Daddy"; prompt on father or dad by asking "whose father/dad?"; reject "Ted Hughes"; reject "Plath" alone]):
    Name this person who titles a poem in which he is called "Marble-heavy, a bag full of God," and a "panzer-man" in contrast to the speaker, who "may be a bit of a Jew."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Colossus"):
    "A blue sky out of the Oresteia / Arches above" the speaker in this poem, in which Plath tells her father that he is as "pithy and historical as the Roman Forum" and opens, "I shall never get you put together entirely."
  Part 3 (ans: horses):
    The speaker dreams that she is Oedipus while watching these animals in Plath's "The Eye-Mote." One of these animals "must think it queer" to do the title action in Robert Frost's "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: When God tries to teach this character to say the word "love," he instead produces "Man's bodiless prodigious head" and "woman's vulva," which then become locked in a death struggle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crow [accept "Crow's First Lesson"; accept "Crow's Account of the Battle"; reject "bird" or "corvid" or "raven"]):
    Name this character whose "First Lesson" and "Account of the Battle" are described in poems from a collection illustrated by Leonard Baskin in which he journeys through the universe in search of his female creator.
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    Crow was created by this poet, whose collection Birthday Letters dramatizes his marriage to Sylvia Plath.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Hawk in the Rain"):
    This other Hughes poem describes a bird whose "wings hold all creation in a weightless quiet" and which "hangs still" before becoming trapped by the horizon in the last stanza.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Translations of poems by authors like Paul Valery and Horace are placed throughout this poet's most famous collection. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Muldoon):
    Name this author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning collection Moy Sand and Gravel. This author remembers traveling through "Dunnamanagh and Ballynascreen" in his native Northern Ireland in the poem "Hard Drive."
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    In a eulogy at this author's funeral, Muldoon recalled a time when this author "bounced [him] off like snow off a plough" during a game of football. This countryman of Muldoon penned the collection Death of a Naturalist.
  Part 3 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    Muldoon's poem "Erm" is dedicated to this poet. The title animal "enters the dark hole of the head" after setting "neat prints into the snow" in "The Thought-Fox," one of this author's many poems about animals.

[B8] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer argues with Emmanuel Egudu over whether Africans favor oral literature over print literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Costello [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this writer who appears as an animal rights advocate in The Lives of Animals. Her most famous novel is titled obliquely for Leopold Bloom's house and retells Ulysses from Molly's perspective.
  Part 2 (ans: J.M. Coetzee (coht-SEE-uh) [or John Maxwell Coetzee]):
    The fictional Elizabeth Costello titles a 2003 novel by this South African author. David Lurie's affair with Melanie Isaacs is the subject of this author's novel Disgrace.
  Part 3 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    A Costello lecture uses a poem by this author about an animal whose "stride is wilderness of freedom" to argue that poets can embody animals. This poet's poems "The Jaguar" and "The Thought-Fox" appear in The Hawk in the Rain, which preceded their collection Birthday Letters.

[B9] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these animals visits an unnamed poetry scholar and his two sons after the death of the scholar's wife in Max Porter's 2015 prose poem Grief is the Thing with Feathers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: crows [or Corvus; prompt on ravens or corvids or birds]):
    Name this animal which, in a collection written after Sylvia Plath's death, responds to the question "who is stronger than death?" with the answer "me, evidently" in the poem "Examination at the Womb-Door."
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    This author wrote those dark and grotesque Crow poems after the death of Plath, his first wife.
  Part 3 (ans: screaming [accept word forms of scream; accept "The Scream"; reject "shouting" or "yelling" or "talking" or other answers]):
    The Crow poems include "Lineage," which tells a creation myth that replaces God with this action, which in turn "begat Blood / Who begat Eye / Who begat Fear / Who begat Wing."

[B10] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem about these creatures describes one of them as "more terrible than she ever was, red / Scar in the sky, red comet / Over the engine that killed her." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bees):
    Name these animals, whose "meeting" titles a poem which imagines the speaker as a "pillar of white in a blackout of knives" and "a magician's girl who does not flinch."
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    A speaker in a poetry collection by this author says, "When you wanted bees I never dreamed / It meant your Daddy had come up out of the well." That collection by this poet, titled Birthday Letters, also contains "The Bee God."
  Part 3 (ans: Sylvia Plath):
    Karen Ford argues that Ted Hughes is responsible for the lack of attention to this author's sequence of bee poems. Hughes moved the bee poems to the middle of this author's collection Ariel.

[B11] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Hansy Rilow (Ree-lov) compares himself to Othello and Bluebeard upon burning a pornographic book. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spring Awakening [accept Fruhlings Erwachen or Spring's Awakening]):
    Name this play by Frank Wedekind, subtitled "a children's tragedy," in which Moritz commits suicide after getting bad grades and the atheist Melchior Gabor assaults the masochistic Wendla.
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    Wedekind's play was translated from the German in the 1970s by this British poet laureate, whose collection Birthday Letters contains several poems addressed to his deceased wife, Sylvia Plath.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Franzen):
    Spring Awakening was also translated and modernized by this contemporary American novelist author of Purity and Freedom. This novelist attacked the experimental fiction of William Gaddis in his essay Mr. Difficult.

[B12] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about otters in literature, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gavin Maxwell):
    This author described rescuing the otter Mjibil from Iraq and raising it in Scotland in the autobiographical Ring of Bright Water. This author's relationship with Kathleen Raine disintegrated after she caused the death of Mijbil.
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    This poet describes otters as "Four-legged yet water gifted, to outfish fish" in his poem "An Otter". This former Poet Laureate of the UK explored his relationship with Sylvia Plath in the collection Birthday Letters.
  Part 3 (ans: Kenneth Grahame):
    The chapter "The Piper at the Gates of Dawn" tells of Mole and Rat helping Otter to find his son Portly in the novel The Wind in the Willows, which is by this author.

[B13] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about female poets and their husbands, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    This man, who was married to the author of the collection Ariel, wrote "the dreamer in her had fallen in love with me" about his other wife Assia Wevill in the collection Birthday Letters.
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko]):
    This poet was married to the author of a collection titled The Quiver. She wrote about spending "seventeen months in the prison lines" in a section titled "Instead of a Preface."
  Part 3 (ans: Anne Bradstreet):
    In "To My Dear and Loving Husband," this poet wrote that she prized her husband's love more than "mines of gold" and "all riches of the East" in The Tenth Muse, lately Sprung up in America.

[B14] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This writer chronicled the ways that Joe McGinniss allegedly betrayed the trust of the murderer Jeffrey MacDonald by portraying him as a sociopath in his true crime book Fatal Vision. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Janet Malcolm):
    Name this longtime New Yorker writer who caused a scandal by contending that journalism is "morally indefensible" in The Journalist and the Murderer. Jeffrey Masson sued her for $10 million after she covered the controversy surrounding Masson's book The Assault on Truth.
  Part 2 (ans: psychoanalysis [accept word forms; prompt on therapy; prompt on analysis; prompt on psychiatry; prompt on psychology]):
    Masson practiced this profession. In a book describing it as "the impossible profession," Malcolm profiled an ultra-orthodox practitioner of it named Aaron Green, who described the importance of the rule of abstinence in allowing transference.
  Part 3 (ans: Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes):
    Malcolm's "The Silent Woman" chronicled the tug-of-war between advocates for these two once-married poets over their legacy, which began with the publication of Ariel and Letters Home after one of them committed suicide. Both are required.

[B15] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title creature of this poem "hangs still" at the "master-fulcrum of violence." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hawk in the Rain"):
    Name this poem about a man who tries to avoid the "swallowing of earth's mouth" when he sees a bird whose "wings hold all creation in a weightless quiet."
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    "The Hawk in the Rain" is the title poem of the first collection by this English Poet Laureate and husband of Sylvia Plath.
  Part 3 (ans: "Daddy"):
    Plath wrote this poem about "a bag full of God" who "Bit my pretty red heart in two." The title figure is described as "a man in black with a Meinkampf look."

[B16] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these animals says "I kill where I please because it is all mine," in a poem in which it muses: "It took the whole of Creation to produce my foot... Now I hold Creation in my foot." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hawks [accept"HawkRoosting" and "TheHawkintheRain"; prompton "bird"; acceptAccipter,Accipitridae, and Accipitrinae from fends]):
    Name this animal which is portrayed "roosting" in the aforementioned poem, and which hangs at the "master-Fulcrum of violence" in a poem depicting it "in the Rain."
  Part 2 (ans: (Edward James) Ted Hughes):
    This former British poet laureate wrote those hawk poems, and broke his 35-year long silence about his relationship with Sylvia Plath in poems like "The Blue Flannel Suit."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Thought Fox"):
    In this earliest poem of his, Hughes analogizes the creative process to the entry into the mind of a "sudden sharp hot stink" of the title animal, which "now, and again now, and now, and now / Sets neat prints into the snow."

[B17] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an odd piece of public works product placement, one holder of this position was the subject of a documentary depicting him taking public transportation through Norfolk. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poet Laureate of the UK [prompt on partial answer, but accept "British Poet Laureate" or other English-type things that distinguish from the Poet Laureate of the U.S.]):
    Name this position held by the star of "John Betjeman Takes the Train."
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    This man was appointed Poet Laureate after John Betjeman because Philip Larkin refused the title. His first collection was Hawk in the Rain, and he also wrote Tales From Ovid. He is alleged to have been a "man in black with a Mein Kampf look."
  Part 3 (ans: Sylvia Plath):
    Hughes's final collection, Birthday Letters, is about his depressing marriage to this author of The Bell Jar, who also described him as "the vampire who sucked my blood for a year" in "Daddy."

[B18] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: He stated that he would "construct a religion" that would "make use of water" in his poem "Water." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    Name this English poet who wrote "They fuck you up your mum and dad" in his poem "This Be the Verse."
  Part 2 (ans: "An Arundel Tomb"):
    This Larkin poem speculates on the lives of an earl and countess, who lay "side by side, their faces blurred." This poem concludes "what will survive of us is love."
  Part 3 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    After the death of John Betjeman, Elizabeth II offered Larkin the post of poet laureate, but he turned it down. This author of The Hawk in the Rain and Lupercal took the post in Larkin's stead.

[B19] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Among this poet's collections are The Whitsun Weddings and High Windows. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    Name this poet who also wrote "This Be the Verse."
  Part 2 (ans: "They fuck you up, your mum and dad"):
    The first line of "This Be the Verse" is this famous line about poor parenting skills.
  Part 3 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    When Philip Larkin declined to become Poet Laureate, that title went instead to this one-time husband of Sylvia Plath.

[B20] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of this poem "the ponderous shires crash on" the title creature, and "mix his heart's blood with the mire of the land." FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hawk in the Rain"):
    Name this poem by the author of Lupercal, which says of the title creature, "Effortlessly at height hangs his still eye. His wings hold all creation in a weightless quiet."
  Part 2 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    "The Hawk in the Rain" was written by this English poet laureate, the husband of Sylvia Plath.
  Part 3 (ans: Crow: From the Life and Songs of the Crow):
    This violent 1970 Hughes collection, subtitled "From the Life and Songs of" the title figure, draws on folklore and Christian imagery to create a mythology of the title figure in poems like "Examination at the Womb-Door" and "The Black Beast."
