=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Exeter Book ===
(Questions where 'Exeter Book' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 12 found, 66 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 23 found, 69 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Seafarer
  - In 1960, Ida Gordon became the first scholar to author a standalone translation of this poem.
  - J.
  - R.
  - R.
  - Tolkien's unfinished story "The Lost Road" contains the poem "Monað  Modes Lust mid Mereflode," which is based on this poem.
  - G.V.
  - Smithers argued that the word "anfloga" in this poem refers to a Valkyrie.
  - The ambiguous word "Sylf" appears in this poem's first line, which, along with Beowulf, is the only known text to contain the word "unwearnum." A loose translation of this poem that only goes up to 99 lines states "Bosque taketh blossom, cometh beauty of berries," and "Cuckoo calleth with gloomy cry
  - For 10 points, name this Exeter Book poem where the speaker narrates about being alone on the water.

[TM2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; do not accept "English"]
  - In a poem in this language, a "wise man" muses how "all permanence rests" in the heavens after recounting men who "the bird took off... the gray wolf [shared] with death." A poem in this language describes the churning of butter with innuendo like "push[ing] something stiff [as] the two of them shoo
  - The line "may I for my own self song's truth reckon" opens an inaccurate Ezra Pound translation which tries to preserve this language's alliterative verse.
  - The figurative compound word "earth-stepper" is used to refer to a poem's title "Wanderer" in one of this language's kennings.
  - For 10 points, name this language used for the poems of the Exeter Book and Beowulf.

[TM3] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: wolf [or wulf; accept Wulfstan or Lupus; accept Cynewulf; accept Beowulf]
  - An author nicknamed for this sort of creature earned the epithet "the homilist" for a tract condemning his countrymen for incurring raids.
  - The Wife's Lament is often compared to a poem in which a woman longs for a man named for this creature over her husband Eadwacer .
  - A raven, an eagle, and this creature are the three standard "beasts of battle." A poet partially named for this creature penned the long poems "Christ II" and "Juliana," which appear in the (*) Exeter Book; that poet's name combines "Cyne"  with this animal.
  - Henry Sweet suggested that "bee" and this animal made up a word that was a kenning for "bear" and names a man who wields the sword Hrunting to avenge the mead-hall Heorot.
  - For 10 points, the name of the Old English hero who slays Grendel combines "Beo" and what animal?

[TM4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: riddles [accept chistan; accept Leiden riddle; accept puzzles or quandaries or enigmas before "Exeter Book" and prompt on any of those answers after; prompt on questions]
  - The line "life is [one of these things], give it up" appears in the final couplet of a Hafez ode about being hungover.
  - Arabic examples of these things include muʿamma , whose invention is attributed to Abu Nuwas, as well as uhjiyya  and lughz .
  - The writer Tatwine  likely imitated the Epistola ad Acircium  of Aldhelm, whose poetic examples of these things include De creatura  and the "Leiden"  one.
  - Examples of these things concerning icebergs and onions are among the 94 of them in the (*) Exeter Book, written in Old English.
  - The question "what's in your pocket?" ends an exchange of these things in the dark between Bilbo and Gollum in The Hobbit.
  - A line about a creature that stands on different numbers of legs is the sphinx's example of, for 10 points, what quandaries?

[TM5] 2023 CREEK+ (2023) | Diff: 6 | Other Academic
     Answer: riddles [accept "Riddles in the Dark"; prompt on questions or poems]
  - Two of these texts titled Lorica and Creatura appear in the Epistola of Aldhelm.
  - Onions are claimed to be a "joy to women" in one of these texts.
  - "Thirty white horses on a red hill" are described in one of these texts, over ninety of which appear in the Exeter Book.
  - A character says, "suns on the daisies" in (*) response to one of these texts in a chapter of a novel titled for "[these texts] in the Dark." The question "what have I got in my pocket?" is used as one of these texts by Gollum in a contest with Bilbo Baggins in The Hobbit.
  - For 10 points, name these verbal puzzles that often have surprising answers.

[TM6] 2023 "Questions Based on Wikipedia Links Ophir Sent Me" (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Jesus Christ [or Jesus Christ; prompt on equivalents of God]
  - A poem titled for this character hails the morning star as Earendil, the "brightest of angels." This character's "six leaps" are described in a poem titled for this character that, like the poems Juliana and Elene, contains runes that spell out the name "Cynewulf." This character is the first of two
  - The first (*) three poems of the Exeter Book are titled for this character.
  - After burying this character, his followers cover the title object in gems, silver, and gold in the earliest surviving dream vision poem.
  - For 10 points, name this character whose death is described in The Dream of the Rood.

[TM7] 2022 Medieval Literature Packet (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: riddles [or enigmata]
  - Negligence is called a "most stupid maiden" while Virginity is called a "most bright maiden" in a set of twenty of these works on the virtues and vices by Saint Boniface.
  - One of these works describing an object produced from the "cold womb" of the "damp earth" is called either Lorica or the "Leiden" one of these works.
  - One hundred of these works in Latin hexameter are included along with a treatise on the number seven in the Epistola ad Acircium, written by (+) Saint Aldhelm.
  - One of these works concludes, "Her eye will be wet," after describing an object which is "shaggy below" and "a wonderful help to women." Several of these works, including ones about a butter churn, a key, and an onion, can also be interpreted as having (*) sexual meanings.
  - For 10 points, name these works, over ninety of which are found in the Old English Exeter Book.

[TM8] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: wife [or wives; accept The World's Wife or "The Wife's Lament" or The Country Wife or "The Wife of Bath's Tale"]
  - A collection named for this type of person includes a poem whose speaker is a nun who "tends the gardens" and "prays for the immortal soul of rock 'n' roll," entitled "Elvis's Twin Sister." One of these people complains about being forced to live under an oak tree in an "earthen cave" in a "lament" 
  - In a play named after this type of person, Mrs.
  - Squeamish and Sir Jasper Fidget are oblivious to the double entendres in Horner's description of his china collection.
  - After tearing several pages out of a book, one of these people is struck by Jankyn.
  - That one of these people tells the story of a knight who, at the orders of Queen Guinevere, strikes a deal with an old woman to learn what it is that women desire most.
  - For 10 points, one of the Canterbury Tales is told by what type of person from Bath?

[TM9] 2018 Stevenson Memorial Tournament (SMT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: riddles
  - Northrop Frye suggested that the aspect of poetry Aristotle called opsis is rooted in this sort of text, whereas melos is rooted in the charm.
  - A medieval text of this sort uses phallic imagery to describe an onion being cut by a "proud woman"; that one is collected with over ninety of these texts in the Anglo-Saxon Exeter Book.
  - One of these things that describes "Thirty white horses on a red hill" appears in a (*) chapter of The Hobbit titled for these things "in the dark," in which Bilbo Baggins and Gollum exchange statements of this sort.
  - In Alice and Wonderland, the Mad Hatter gives one of these things that consists of the question "Why is a raven like a writing-desk?" For 10 points, name this type of puzzling statement or question with an answer.

[TM10] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English since Borges taught an English literature class]
  - An upstart scholar of this language at the University of Texas secures a speaking engagement at a conference by attacking the pedagogical methods of his senior colleague Ezra Winthrop in the story "The Bribe." A biography by Edwin Williamson describes how an author and his students would triumphantl
  - Martin Hadis and Martin Arias arranged for the transcription of lecture notes from a 1966 course at the University of Buenos Aires, whose first seven sections examine literature written in this language.
  - (*) Borges never published his essay about Grimur Jonsson Thorkelin, who in 1787 had transcribed a poem in this language from its sole surviving copy in the Nowell Codex.
  - The Book of Imaginary Beings discusses an island that turns out to be a whale, which its author had encountered in R.
  - K.
  - Gordon's translation of this language's bestiary in The Exeter Book.
  - For 10 points, the tombstone of Borges is inscribed with a line from what language's poem "The Battle of Maldon"?

[TM11] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Answer: whales [or cetaceans; antiprompt for order on specific members of Cetacea including dolphins; prompt for type of creature on sea monsters or similar answers]
  - God summons one of these animals to devour corn after King Solomon prays to feed all the creatures in the world.
  - The hunter Natsilane kills his brother-in-law with one of these animals after growing it from yellow cedar.
  - A poem from the Exeter Book titled for one of these mammals describes an encounter with Fastitocalon, an Aspidochelone that behaves like another creature sometimes described as one of these mammals, the Jasconius encountered by Saint (*) Brendan.
  - Big Raven eats mushrooms in order to gain enough strength to move one of these animals, which are preyed upon bythunderbirds.
  - To escape Ruatapu, Paikea rides one of them in a Maori myth.
  - Along with seals and walruses, they were born from the chopped fingers of Sedna.
  - For 10 points, name these mammals exemplified by the Leviathan and the swallower of Jonah.

[TM12] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: rhyme [Accept "The Rhyming Poem", "A Defense of Rhyme," "rhyme royal," "masculine rhyme" and "feminine rhyme" at any point.]
  - The Exeter Book poem whose title mentions this tells of a king's life before and after his fall from grace.
  - One tract that argues for the usage of this technique was written in response to Thomas Campion's Observations in the Art of English Poesie.
  - That defense of it was written by Samuel Daniel.
  - Shakespeare's The Rape of Lucrece is written in a stanza format whose (*) name mentions this technique; that stanza consists of a tercet and two couplets and is called "[this] royale." Depending on the number of syllables matched, this technique is classified as either "masculine" or "feminine." For

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for one of these people describes how all is quiet over the hills, before bidding the listener "Just wait: before long / You, too, shall rest." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a wanderer [accept "Wanderer's Nightsong" or "Wandrers Nachtlied" or "The Wanderer"]):
    Name these people who title the aforementioned "Nightsong" by Goethe. An Old English poem from the Exeter Book titled for one of these people declares "Events always go as they must!"
  Part 2 (ans: heaven [or Himmel; prompt on the sky]):
    One of the nightsongs addresses a person who "hails from" this place. The prologue to Goethe's Faust is set in this place, whose army is commanded by Michael in Paradise Lost.
  Part 3 (ans: a cabin [or a hut; or Hutte; accept Goethe's hut or Martin Heidegger's hut; accept a house in a forest, or one in the wilderness, or one in the Black Forest; or a hunting lodge; prompt on house or home or residence or synonyms by asking "what sort of place is the house in?"] (The latter clue refers to "Todtnauberg.")):
    Goethe inscribed the lines of the second "Wanderer's Nightsong" on the walls of one of these places. The speaker asks "whose name did it record / before mine?" after writing his name in a book at one of these places in a poem by Paul Celan.

[BM2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Craig Williamson claimed that the two "most perplexing" poems "in the entire Old English corpus" are Wulf and Eadwacer("ADD-watcher") and this poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Wife's Lament" [or "The Wife's Complaint"] (The Williamson quote is from the introduction to his edition of The Complete Old English Poems.)):
    Name this elegy from the Exeter Book whose speaker sings "each morning's sorrow / Outside my earth-cave, under my oak tree" after her lover "left hearth and home, / Crossing the sea-road."
  Part 2 (ans: riddles [prompt on puzzles, questions, or enigmas]):
    In between Wulf and Eadwacer and "The Wife's Lament" in the Exeter Book are nearly sixty of these texts. Bilbo Baggins and Gollum engage in a contest involving these things in J. R. R. Tolkien's The Hobbit.
  Part 3 (ans: phoenix [prompt on bird; accept "The Phoenix and the Turtle"]):
    A poem from the Exeter Book about one of these creatures opens by describing a far eastern region "not known by many rulers of middle-earth." William Shakespeare wrote "Truth and beauty buried be" in a poem about one of these creatures and a turtledove.

[BM3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A five-line poem attributed to this author states "none is wiser than the man who considers [...] what judgement his soul will receive after its passing". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bede [or Saint Bede or The Venerable Bede or Bede the Venerable or Beda Venerabilis]):
    Name this author who, according to Cuthbert, reportedly asked for "some pepper, and napkins, and some incense" before composing a poem on their deathbed on Ascension Day, 735.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [accept Anglo-Saxon; begrudgingly prompt on English]):
    Bede's death song is the poem in this language that survives in the largest number of manuscripts. The Exeter Book contains many poems in this language used to write Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: Widsith [accept far-traveller or wide-journey or "The Traveller's Song"]):
    The Exeter Book contains this 143-line poem which surveys the Heroic Age of Northern Europe. This poem gives a list of tribes and writes of how "Hrothwulf and Hrothgar held longest the kinship together".

[BM4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem included in this codex describes "the citadels crumbled" and "the work of giants ruined" in a poem that focuses on a "well-crafted ancient-work." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Exeter Book):
    Name this codex of Old English poems including "The Seafarer." "Master artisans" lie buried for "a hundred generations" in "The Ruin," a poem from this codex.
  Part 2 (ans: elegy [or elegies]):
    "The Ruin" belongs to this genre of Old English poems. "The Wife's Lament" and "The Husband's Message,"both of which are in the Exeter Book, are other examples of these poetic laments for the dead.
  Part 3 (ans: J. R. R. Tolkien [or John Ronald Reuel Tolkien]):
    Old English words used in "The Ruin," including enta and orþonc ("or-thonk"), inspired character and place names used by this author. This author likened Beowulf to an elegy in the essay "The Monsters and the Critics."

[BM5] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Piers Plowman is typically grouped with a loose 14th-century "revival" named for this literary device, which included an account of the death of King Arthur usually titled for this device. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: alliteration [or word forms such as alliterative; accept Alliterative Revival; accept Alliterative Morte Arthure]):
    Name this literary device that was used to join two half-lines divided by a caesura ("suh-ZHUR-uh") in most Old English poetry.
  Part 2 (ans: rhyme [or word forms such as rhyming; accept "The Rhyming Poem" or "The Riming Poem"; accept end rhyme or other forms of rhyme; accept rhyme scheme]):
    Alliteration was supplanted by this other technique, which names a prototypical 87-line poem found in the Exeter Book. This technique may be assigned "schemes" such as ABABA.
  Part 3 (ans: Pearl Poet [or Gawain Poet]):
    This poet, who is often grouped with the Alliterative Revival, used a device called a "bob and wheel" consisting of a pair of stressed syllables and a rhyming four-line stanza. In a poem attributed to this unknown author, a grieving father sees a maiden named for the title object.

[BM6] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: One of the four surviving manuscripts of poetry in this language ended up, for unknown reasons, in the Italian town of Vercelli ("ver-CHELL-ee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English]):
    Name this language whose other poetic manuscripts include the Exeter Book. Beowulf was written in this language.
  Part 2 (ans: Nowell Codex [or Cotton MS Vitellius A XV]):
    Perhaps the best-known Old English poetic manuscript is this codex, which contains the only copy of Beowulf as well as a translation of Judith. The edges of its pages were burned in the 1731 Ashburnham House fire, from which most of it was narrowly saved.
  Part 3 (ans: The Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede or Bæda]):
    The oldest Old English poem, Caedmon's ("KIDE-mon's") Hymn, survives only in copies of this medieval scholar's work Ecclesiastical History of the English People.

[BM7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In "The Monsters and the Critics," J. R. R. Tolkien accepts "without argument" that Beowulf originated in an "age" named for this writer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Venerable Bede ("beed") [or Saint Bede; or Bede the Venerable or Beda Venerabilis]):
    Name this attributed author of a five-line "Death Song." This writer's magnum opus relates how the cowherd Caedmon ("CAD-mun") miraculously received the ability to sing to compose his namesake hymn, which this writer preserved.
  Part 2 (ans: dreams [accept The Dream of the Rood; prompt on sleeping]):
    In Bede's ("beedʼs") account, Caedmon ("CAD-mun") gained the ability to sing during one of these events. One of these events "of the Rood" titles a poem, attributed to Caedmon, in which the cross narrates Jesus's crucifixion.
  Part 3 (ans: riddles [prompt on puzzle or questions or brainteasers or similar]):
    Bede wrote texts of this type in the Aenigmata section of his Liber epigrammatum. "An onion" is the answer to a suggestive text of this kind in the Exeter Book, which likely inspired a contest of these things in The Hobbit.

[BM8] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Symphosius wrote a collection of one hundred of these texts, inspiring a set of one hundred of these texts compiled by the abbot Aldheim. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: riddles [accept enigmas or enigmata]):
    Name these texts, just over ninety of which are preserved in the Exeter Book; two of these texts about onions are often contrasted for their presence and absence of sexual undertones.
  Part 2 (ans: Bilbo Baggins [prompt on Baggins; the answer to the riddle is "egg"]):
    In a game from the chapter "Riddles in the Dark," this character asks Gollum the riddle "A box without hinges, key or lid, / Yet golden treasure inside is hid."
  Part 3 (ans: Why is a raven like a writing desk [accept equivalents; the exact wording is not needed]):
    Lewis Carroll composed the response "Because it can produce a few notes, though they are very flat" to this nonsensical riddle that the Mad Hatter asks Alice. Other popular answers to this riddle include "They both have quills dipped in ink" and "Poe wrote on both."

[BM9] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In an enigmatic poem from the Exeter Book, a woman pines for a man with this one-syllable name before addressing another man named Eadwacer ("EED-wace-er"), who may be her captor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: wulf [or wolf; accept Cynewulf or Beowulf; accept "Wulf and Eadwacer"]):
    Give this syllable, which is merged with "Cyne" ("KIN-uh") in the name of a poet whose signed poems include Elene and Juliana. This syllable ends the name of a poem preserved in the Nowell Codex about a king of the Geats ("GAY-ahts").
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; do not accept or prompt on "Middle English"]):
    The epic poem Beowulf was written in this language used by the poet Cynewulf and by the authors collected in the Exeter Book. This language developed into a later "Middle" form used to write The Canterbury Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: battle [accept beasts of battle; accept "The Battle of Maldon"; do not accept or prompt on related answers like "war"]):
    Beowulf and Elene both use a poetic trope in which a wolf, a raven, and an eagle are the namesake "beasts" of this sort of event. One of these events titles an Old English poem that depicts the "ofermode" ("OH-fer-mode") of the hero Byrhtnoth ("BERT-noth").

[BM10] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This collection contains a fragmentary 9th-century poem about a "strong servant of the Savior," Judith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nowell Codex):
    Name this Old English manuscript, which depicts fantastic peoples such as blemmyae and hostes in the illustrated Wonders of the East. Grimur Jonsson Thorkelin transcribed Beowulf from this text.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Wife's Lament"):
    This Old English elegy from the Exeter Book begins with the compound uhtcearu ("OOT-cha-roo"), meaning "pre-dawn-sorrow." Its speaker predicts, "That man of mine / will drag his days under a mighty mind-caring."
  Part 3 (ans: the dragon):
    This Beowulf character is described by the similar compound term uhtfloga ("OOT-flog-uh"), meaning "dawn-flyer." At the end of the poem, an aged Beowulf slays this character with assistance from Wiglaf.

[BM11] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these poems describes dough as "something that grows in a corner, swelling and standing up, lifting up its covering," which "a proud-minded woman gripped with her hands." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: riddles):
    Name this kind of Old English poem, many of which are collected in the Exeter Book. They often end with an instruction to "say what I am called."
  Part 2 (ans: The Wanderer):
    The Exeter Book contains this poem whose title figure declares that though the "solitary looks for the favor of fortune," the "exile's fate is decreed for him." Its narrator reflects on his days serving as a retainer to his lord.
  Part 3 (ans: wolf OR raven OR eagle [accept any two; prompt on bird]):
    The Wanderer, like Beowulf, includes a depiction of the "beasts of battle," a poetic trope in which these three animals accompany warriors to feast on the bodies of the slain. Name any two of those animals.

[BM12] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: [MODERATOR NOTE: review the answerline to the first part before reading this bonus] The Spectator's contest to determine an answer to this riddle included responses like "one is good for writing books and the other is good for biting rooks." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Why is a raven like a writing desk?" [answers must contain the words raven and desk and must indicate a similarity between the two]):
    Name this absurd riddle posed to Alice by the Mad Hatter during a tea party in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. The exact phrasing is not necessary.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [prompt on English]):
    The Exeter Book contains numerous Anglo-Saxon riddles written in this medieval language, which evolved into a modern language. It was used to write Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Ives):
    A traditional English riddle begins "As I was going to [this place] / Upon the road I met seven wives" who each had seven sacks, with each sack having seven cats, and each cat having seven kits.

[BM13] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Aldhelm was inspired by Symphosius to write some of these works, including ones named for Leiden and one beginning "I am greater than this middle-earth". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anglo-Saxon riddles):
    Identify these works, including one named "Creatura", regarding man's role with other animals as subject to God.
  Part 2 (ans: Caedmon):
    This resident of Whitby Abbey was inspired by a dream to write his namesake Old English hymn which praises God. The account of his life comes from the Venerable Bede.
  Part 3 (ans: Jesus Christ [accept either underlined part or obvious equivalents]):
    Numerous works of Old English literature are collected in the Exeter Book, including a three-part poem of this figure. In The Dream of the Rood, a piece of wood recounts being used in the cross during the Crucifixion of this figure.

[BM14] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these poems is spoken by an onion which asserts "I stand in bed / shaggy somewhere beneath," and states that it makes a woman's eye wet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: riddles [accept enigmata]):
    Name this genre of poems, 95 of which are preserved in the Exeter Book. The subjects of these poems include a shield, dough, and an iceberg.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English]):
    The Exeter Book is the longest surviving manuscript of poetry in this language, which was also used to write Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: wyrd ("wird") [or wyrde] (The line is "Wrætlic is þes wealstan, wyrde gebræcon.")):
    The "elegies" of the Exeter Book, such as "The Wanderer," explore this Anglo-Saxon concept, which is variously translated as "fate" or "personal destiny," and the corresponding impermanence of earthly things. The first line of "The Ruin" claims that this thing broke the walls.

[BM15] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This language was used to write a poem which, translated, begins: 'This masonry is wondrous; fates broke it / courtyard pavements were smashed; the work of giants is decaying.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anglo-Saxon (or Old English)):
    The title character of another poem in this language reminisces that 'Blithe heart cannot know, / through its happiness, what hardships they suffer / who drive the foam-furrow furthest from land.'
  Part 2 (ans: Exeter Book):
    This collection of Anglo-Saxon verse, the largest still in existence, contains The Wanderer, The Ruin, and The Seafarer, as well as 95 shorter riddles.
  Part 3 (ans: Middle Earth (Hail Earandel brightest of angels/ over Middle Earth sent to men - Eala Earendel engla beorhtast / Ofer middangeard monnum sended.)):
    This fictional world takes its name from a line in the poem Christ I, which is included in the Exeter Book. The line in question is preceded by one that declares 'Hail Earendel brightest of Angels'. This was also the name JRR Tolkien used for the central continent where most of the action of the Lor

[BM16] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ezra Pound's translation of this poem opens "May I for my own self song's truth reckon, / Journey's jargon." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Seafarer):
    Name this poem that survives only in the Exeter Book. The title man describes his isolation and "cold-wetness" while journeying in an elegiac style, before concluding with the single word "Amen."
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [prompt on English]):
    As with all the other texts in the Exeter Book, The Seafarer is written in this language, which was used by Caedmon and by the author of Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: riddles):
    Among the components of the Exeter Book are ninety of these obtuse descriptions of various objects and concepts, which are extensively used in Old English literature. Those in the Exeter Book often incorporate double entendres, as shown by one concerning an "erect" and "hairy" onion.

[BM17] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem features many amusing kennings, or compound words used to replace a regular noun like "whale-road" for sea and "wave-floater" for ship. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beowulf):
    Identify this poem which has been translated by J.R.R. Tolkien, who wrote "The Monster and the Critics" about it.
  Part 2 (ans: Grendel):
    The first violent episode in Beowulf features Beowulf defeating this monster by tearing off his arm. John Gardner wrote a novel retelling the poem from this creature's perspective.
  Part 3 (ans: Old English [prompt on just English]):
    Beowulf was composed in this language. Other works in this extinct language include the Exeter Book and Waldere.

[BM18] 2018 ACF Fall (2018) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A work in this genre describes onions as "a joy to women." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: riddles):
    Name this genre of over ninety works collected in the Exeter Book. A work in this genre named for Leiden begins with the line: "The wet ground, incredibly cold, first produced me from its innards."
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [prompt on English; do not accept or prompt on Middle English]):
    The Exeter Book riddles were written in this medieval language. Other works written in this language include the Dream of the Rood and Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: alliteration):
    Most Old English poems, including Beowulf and the Exeter riddles, use this poetic device in lieu of rhyme. Like sibilance, this literary technique is a special form of consonance.

[BM19] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Because one of these texts consists of the single line "A marvel occurred on the road: water turned to bone," it is often combined with the preceding one. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: riddles):
    Name this genre, several Latin language examples of which appear in the Enigmata of the seventh-century abbot Aldhelm, including his Lorica, which was translated into the thirty-third piece of this type in the Exeter Book.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon]):
    Riddles are a staple of the literature of this language, which also includes poems such as Caedmon's Hymn and Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: J.R.R. Tolkien [or John Ronald Reuel Tolkien]):
    This scholar of Old English penned a riddle that reads "A box without hinges, key or lid, / Yet golden treasure inside is hid," whose

[BM20] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This speaker of this poem has a vision of the Cross, in which it recounts its time as a tree and its later time bearing the crucified Jesus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Dream of the Rood):
    Name this poem in alliterative verse which tells the story of the Cross to mirror that of Christ.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [prompt on English or Anglo-Saxon; do not accept or prompt on "middle English"]):
    The Dream of the Rood is written in this language. The Exeter Book is the largest extant collection of literature in this language, and the Nowell Codex, containing a copy of Beowulf, was also written in this language.
  Part 3 (ans: the Pearl Poet [or the Gawain-Poet]):
    This name is given to the Middle English author of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, who described the title virtues in his alliterative poems Patience and Cleanness.

[BM21] 2015 Delta Burke (2015) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: Unferth insults this person, who responds by mentioning his swimming contest with Breca. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Beowulf):
    Name this literary character who helps Hrothgar by killing the monster Grendel.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [prompt on "English"]):
    Beowulf was written in this language, which was also used for the works in the Exeter Book.
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    A new verse translation of Beowulf was created in 2001 by this Irish poet, whose collection Death of a Naturalist contains the poems "Digging" and "Mid-Term Break."

[BM22] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In addition to ninety often double-entendre-heavy riddles, this collection's contents include three allegorical poems about animals, including "The Phoenix", "The Panther", and one describing the "Fastitocalon". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Exeter Book [or the Codex Exoniensis]):
    Name this codex, the source for such anonymous works as "The Whale", "The Wanderer", and "The Wife's Lament".
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on "English"]):
    The poems in the Exeter Book were written in this language, which was also used to write the poems in the Vercelli Book and the Nowell Codex, the latter of which includes Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: Caedmon):
    The fourth major codex of Old English literature is named for this poet, though he almost certainly wrote none of the poems in it. A poem named for him a nine-line hymn describing an illiterate cow-herd singing a song of the creation of the world, and it survives in Bede's Ecclesiastical History.

[BM23] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about Old English poetry.
  Part 1 (ans: kennings):
    These exocentric compound words are poetic devices that figuratively describe an underlying noun. In Beowulf, examples include "whale-road" and "ring-giver."
  Part 2 (ans: alliteration [or alliterative verse]):
    This technique was used rather than rhyme in Old English poems such as Beowulf, which employs it to link the two half-lines of a given poetic line.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wanderer"):
    This poem, found in the Exeter Book, is mostly narrated by a figure who laments his life on the "paths of exile." It notes that "fate is inexorable" in its opening lines, a brief prologue in the author's voice.
