=== STOCK CLUES: Paul Valéry ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 20 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Paul [accept Paul Eluard, Paul Valery, or Paul Verlaine]
  - A writer who took this first name included a poem titled for Max Ernst in his collection Capital of Pain. [PWR]
  - A writer with this first name included Marceline Desbordes-Valmore and an anagram of his own name in an 1884 anthology of "accursed poets." A poet with this first name wrote "The Young Fate" and the lines "The wind is rising! [PWR]
  - We must try to live!" in "The (*) Graveyard by the Sea." An author depicted himself as the "infernal Spouse" of a man with this name in A Season in Hell.
  - This is the first name of a poet who broke away from Parnassianism in favor of Symbolism in his "Songs without Words," which was about his lover Arthur Rimbaud.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the French poets Valery and Verlaine. [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Paul Valery's Great Silence [accept any answers indicating that it's the period of time during which Paul Valery produced no poetry.]
  - A poem set on the first day of this period of time asks "Egoism?
  - The End of Egoism? / The brute powers close in," and was written by Robert Conquest.
  - This period was said to have begun after a "stormy night" during which "lightning [was] so frequent" that it gave the illusion of "broad daylight".
  - A desire to abolish the falsehoods of "literature and sentiment" was responsible for bringing about this phase, which started after a man stayed at an inn in Genoa, reminiscing about a recent love affair.
  - During this 25-year period, a man devoted his intellect to studying mathematics and law, and recorded his thoughts on Leonardo da Vinci in many of his numerous Cahiers.
  - One of the few imaginative works during this span of time was the creation of Monsieur Teste.
  - This phase of a writer's life began around the year 1892, and only ended in 1917, when the author wrote a poem consisting of 512 alexandrines that celebrates the French language titled The Youngest of the Fates.
  - The death of Stephane Mallarme exacerbated, for 10 points, what period during which a French symbolist renounced all of a certain kind of writing? [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Paul Valery [his full name is Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valery]
  - This poet's adaptation of the Faust legend includes a scene in which a woman named Lust seduces Faust in his garden.
  - This author, whose maxims include "a poem is never finished, only abandoned," created a character who says that "stupidity is not my strong suit." This poet wrote a pseudo-Platonic dialogue in which Eupalinos relates the necessary qualities to be an architect.
  - Edmund Wilson relayed an anecdote in Axel's Castle in which this author angered some blowhards by being too well-dressed.
  - One of this author's poems begins by comparing the sighing "single wind" with "distant diamonds dying." The speaker of another of this author's poems climbs to see a "temple of time" and describes an arrow as "flying, but yet not flying." This author broke his "Great Silence" by writing "La Jeune Parque." He wrote of "Zeno, Zeno, cruel philosopher Zeno" in a poem that ends with the command "the wind is rising...we must try to live!" For 10 points, name this author of "The Graveyard by the Sea." [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Paul Valery
  - The title creature of one poem by this writer declares, "Tremble, mortals-I'm strong when my insatiate yawn stretches to snap a spring." This poet wrote, "O rounded dome and perfect diadem, I am what's changing secretly in you.
  - I am the only medium for your fears," in a poem describing death as "that empty skull, that everlasting grin." Another of his poems states, "I must, O Sun, worship this heart where you seek to know yourself," and begins by asking, "Who is that weeping, if not simply the wind?" That poem consists of 512 alexandrine couplets and broke his twenty-year hiatus provoked by the death of Stephane Mallarme.
  - This poet created the persona of Monsieur Teste, and declared "The wind is rising...we must try to live!" in a poem set on a "quiet roof, where dove-sails saunter by." For 10 points, name this French poet of "Sketch of a Serpent," "The Young Fate," and "The Graveyard by the Sea." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem titled for this substance says that she will "dine on your delectable marrow" after threatening to "murder you with love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: food [accept "Food of Love"; reject specific types of food]):
    Name this substance that titles a Carolyn Kizer poem. In Twelfth Night, Duke Orsino commands, "If music be [this substance] of love, play on."
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery [or Ambroise Paul Toussaint Jules Valery] (Merrill's poem is "Lost in Translation.")):
    Kizer borrows this French poet's line "The whole green sky is dying" in a villanelle about the Gulf War. One of his poems is called a "sunlit paradigm" that evokes a "wellspring of authority" in a poem by James Merrill.
  Part 3 (ans: Chinese [or Hanyu or Zhongwen; accept Mandarin or Guanhua or Beifanghua] (The second poem is Li-Young Lee's "Persimmons.")):
    Kizer's "Dejeuner sur l'herbe" ("day-zhuh-NAY soor LAIRB") is a translation of a poem from this non-French language. In another poem, a native speaker of this language is punished for not knowing the difference between "persimmon" and "precision."

[B2] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem states that if we cannot adorn this location with a "bas-relief" sculpted from the "wars of earth and heaven," we should "let this boundary stone say no / To the dark flights of blasphemy hereafter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the tomb of Edgar Allan Poe [accept "The Tomb of Edgar Poe" or "Le tombeau d'Edgar Poe"; prompt on tomb or tombeau by asking "whose tomb?"]):
    Identify this location described in a poem by Stephane Mallarme which claims that it is the place where "the Poet" is "Changed by Eternity to himself at last."
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery):
    This other French poet said that he found the essential connection between Baudelaire and Poe in the first line of Mallarme's poem. He also described visiting tombs in his poem "The Graveyard by the Sea."
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    This Frenchman described visiting his daughter Leopoldine's grave in "Demain des l'aube" ("duh-MAN day LOBE"). This man was best known as a poet in France during his lifetime, but today he is known for Les miserables.

[B3] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote the line "The paths of glory lead but to the grave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Name this writer who described "Some mute inglorious Milton" and "Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" in his poem "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Graveyard By The Sea" [or reasonable translations for "Le cimetiere marin"] [by Paul Valery]):
    This poem, by a different author, begins and ends with images of a quiet roof and dove sails and asks the "cruel philosopher Zeno, / Have you then pierced me with your feathered arrow."

[B4] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet included a five-line stanza consisting of nothing but dots in his poem "The Cistern," and intermittently adopted the persona of Stratis the Sailor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giorgios Seferis [or George Seferis; or Georgios Seferiades]):
    Name this author of the popular poem "Denial," who got his start translating T.S. Eliot into his native language, before publishing poetry of his own in collections such as Turning Point and Mythistorema.
  Part 2 (ans: Modern Greek [or Neo-Hellenic; or Romaic; or Roman]):
    Giorgios Seferis and Odysseus Elytis were the two Literature Nobel laureates who wrote in this language, used in poems such as "Waiting For the Barbarians" and "Ithaca" by Constantin Cavafy.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Valery [or Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valery]):
    Critics often link Seferis's metaphysical poetry to that of this Frenchman, who claimed that "A vivid and a clear-cut pain / Is better than a drowsy torment" in his sonnet "The Bee," which appears in the collection Charms, just like his masterpiece "The Graveyard by the Sea."

[B5] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: G.S. Fraser's translation of this poem opens by asking "Who or what is crying, if not only the wind, at this hour / Only, of uttermost diamonds?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "La Jeune Parque" [or "The Youngest Parca"; or "The Youngest of the Fates"]):
    Name this poem written in 512 lines of rhymed alexandrine couplets by the author of "The Cemetery by the Sea". Its 1917 publication broke its author's nearly-twenty-year "Great Silence" after the death of Stephane Mallarme.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery [or Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valery]):
    Both "La Jeune Parque" and "The Cemetery by the Sea" were written by this last major French symbolist, whose poem "Palme" inspired James Merrill's own poem Lost in Translation.
  Part 3 (ans: Edmond Teste [or Monsieur Teste; or Mr. Teste]):
    Valery wrote a series of essays about this character, an extremely dedicated intellectual whose motto "Que peut un homme?" means "Of what is man capable?". This character also claims that "stupidity is not my strong suit".

[B6] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem opens as the speaker explains that the title vessel "was going down impassive Rivers" and "no longer felt" itself "guided by haulers." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Drunken Boat" (or "Le Bateau Ivre")):
    Name this Rimbaud poem whose title vessel cannot "Follow in the waves of the cotton boats, / Nor cross through the pride of flags and flames, / Nor swim under the eyes of prison ships."
  Part 2 (ans: symbolism):
    Arthur Rimbaud is a member of this literary movement whose other members include Auguste Villiers de l'Isle-Adam and Stephane Mallarme.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Valery):
    This French author of "The Graveyard by the Sea" and "The Young Fate" was also a prominent member of the symbolist movement.

[B7] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The literary style associated with this concept is juxtaposed against a style exemplifed by Dante that tries to give language physical solidity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lightness):
    Name this concept that a novelist outlined as the guiding principle of his artistic method in the frst of his Six Memos for the Next Millennium, which he defned as "the subtraction of weight."
  Part 2 (ans: Italo Calvino):
    This Italian author discussed "lightness" in the first of his Norton Lectures, which he died before delivering. He illustrated "lightness" in the stories from his collection Cosmicomics.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Valery):
    Calvino describes lightness by quoting this poet's aphorism, "One should be light like a bird, and not like a feather". This poet collected his sayings in his diaries titled the Cahiers, and went through a nineteen-year period of "silence" when he did not publish any poetry.
