=== STOCK CLUES: Valéry ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 52 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 62 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Paul [accept Paul Eluard, Paul Valery, or Paul Verlaine]
  - A writer who took this first name included a poem titled for Max Ernst in his collection Capital of Pain. [PWR]
  - A writer with this first name included Marceline Desbordes-Valmore and an anagram of his own name in an 1884 anthology of "accursed poets." A poet with this first name wrote "The Young Fate" and the lines "The wind is rising! [PWR]
  - We must try to live!" in "The (*) Graveyard by the Sea." An author depicted himself as the "infernal Spouse" of a man with this name in A Season in Hell.
  - This is the first name of a poet who broke away from Parnassianism in favor of Symbolism in his "Songs without Words," which was about his lover Arthur Rimbaud.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the French poets Valery and Verlaine. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 DART (2021) | Diff: 4 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Violetta Valery [accept either underlined portion; accept La Traviata; accept The Fallen Woman until mention]
  - This character is humiliated in the aria "Questa donna conoscete." This operatic character sings the duet "Un di felice, eterea" with her lover before telling him to return once a white camellia has withered. [PWR]
  - At the end of Act I, she resolves to always remain free in the cabaletta aria (*) Sempre Libera. [PWR]
  - This operatic character is convinced to abandon her lover by Giorgio Germont.
  - The brindisi "libiamo, ne' lieti calici" is sung by Alfredo after this character's lover Baron Douphol refuses to give a toast.
  - For 10 points, name this title "fallen woman" who dies of consumption in an opera by Giuseppi Verdi. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 RMBAT (2019) | Diff: 4 | Fine Arts
     Answer: La Traviata [accept either part of Violetta Valery, accept the Fallen Woman before mention]
  - The casting of Fanny Salvini-Donatelli as this operatic character elicited scorn due to the singer's age and weight. [PWR]
  - This character says goodbye to past happy dreams in the aria "Addio del passato" as she reads a letter from her lover's father. [PWR]
  - In the aria "Questa donna conoscete," this character's ex-lover denounces her and throws (*) gambling winnings at her feet; at that party, Baron Douphol refuses to give a toast.
  - Giorgio demands this character to end her relationship with his son to save his daughter's engagement.
  - This character asks Alfredo to always love her before dying of tuberculosis.
  - For 10 points, name this character, the title "fallen woman" in an opera by Giuseppe Verdi. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Russia [accept Soviet Union or USSR] (Every person in this tossup was alive during either the formation or the fall of the Soviet Union; the conductors in the first two sentences are Vasily Petrenko and Valery Gergiev, respectively.)
  - A conductor from this country faced calls to resign from the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra in 2013 after he claimed that orchestras "react better" to male conductors. [PWR]
  - A different conductor from this country was music director of the London Symphony Orchestra from 2007 to 2017 and often conducts with a toothpick. [PWR]
  - A composer from this country wrote an opera in which Renata obsessively searches for her love Madiel and is sentenced to be burned at the stake. [PWR]
  - The composer of (*) The Fiery Angel and Love for Three Oranges was from this country, as was a composer who turned away from opera after he was attacked in the article "Muddle Instead of Music" for formalism and coarseness.
  - For 10 points, name this home country of Sergei Prokofiev and Dmitri Shostakovich. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 HFT (2019) | Diff: 4 | Literature
     Answer: France [or French Republic; accept French Empire] (Writer's note: The first poem is Paul Valery's "The Graveyard By The Sea.")
  - A poem from this country depicts a "quiet roof, where dove-sails saunter by" the title location.
  - The speaker describes the title structure as a "sepulchral sewer spewing mud and rubies" in a poem named for "The Tomb of" another author from this country, who called his mistress his "Black Venus" and wrote a poem whose title "prince of cloud and sky" has "giant wings [that] prevent him from walking." That author from this country included "The (*) Albatross" in a poetry collection whose opening section is "Spleen and Ideal," The Flowers of Evil. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this country home to Stephane Mallarme and Charles Baudelaire. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Violetta Valery [accept La traviata or The fallen woman until "La traviata" is read]
  - This operatic character is generally considered to be based on Marie Duplessis, who was a lover of Franz Liszt in her last year. [PWR]
  - Before dying, this character gives a portrait of herself to a man and asks him to imagine her as his angel. [PWR]
  - In Act I, she sings a cabaletta aria explaining her inability to find true love after earlier being the main soprano in a type of German drinking song called a (*) brindisi. [PWR]
  - She sings the aria "sempre libera." In a climactic scene, casino winnings from Flora's party are thrown at this character's feet after she lies and insists that she loves Baron Douphol.
  - Before dying of tuberculosis, this character asks Alfredo Germont to always love her.
  - For 10 points, name this title fallen woman of Giuseppe Verdi's La Traviata. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Paul Valery's Great Silence [accept any answers indicating that it's the period of time during which Paul Valery produced no poetry.]
  - A poem set on the first day of this period of time asks "Egoism?
  - The End of Egoism? / The brute powers close in," and was written by Robert Conquest.
  - This period was said to have begun after a "stormy night" during which "lightning [was] so frequent" that it gave the illusion of "broad daylight".
  - A desire to abolish the falsehoods of "literature and sentiment" was responsible for bringing about this phase, which started after a man stayed at an inn in Genoa, reminiscing about a recent love affair.
  - During this 25-year period, a man devoted his intellect to studying mathematics and law, and recorded his thoughts on Leonardo da Vinci in many of his numerous Cahiers.
  - One of the few imaginative works during this span of time was the creation of Monsieur Teste.
  - This phase of a writer's life began around the year 1892, and only ended in 1917, when the author wrote a poem consisting of 512 alexandrines that celebrates the French language titled The Youngest of the Fates.
  - The death of Stephane Mallarme exacerbated, for 10 points, what period during which a French symbolist renounced all of a certain kind of writing? [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Valery Giscard d'Estaing (or VGE; prompt on "d'Estaing")
  - As part of Operation Lamantin, this leader's military bombed forces of the Polisario Front after their raid on a Mauritanian mining town. [PWR]
  - After a rival politician founded the Rally for the Republic, this man responded by forming the UDF, which was eventually absorbed into the MoDem. [PWR]
  - This man's Minister of Health, Simone Veil, spearheaded a campaign that legalized abortion.
  - This man did not commute Hamida Djandoubi's death sentence, making Djandoubi the last person to be executed in France. [PWR]
  - This leader, who took power after the closest presidential election in French history, was defeated by a politician who put forth (*) "110 Propositions for France." Although this leader received diamonds as gifts from Jean-Bedel Bokassa, his government drove Bokassa out of power and replaced him with David Dacko. [PWR]
  - This leader's re-election prospects were doomed by a lack of support from his rival, Jacques Chirac.
  - For 10 points, name this French president from 1974 to 1981, who was defeated by Francois Mitterrand. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Paul Valery [his full name is Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valery]
  - This poet's adaptation of the Faust legend includes a scene in which a woman named Lust seduces Faust in his garden.
  - This author, whose maxims include "a poem is never finished, only abandoned," created a character who says that "stupidity is not my strong suit." This poet wrote a pseudo-Platonic dialogue in which Eupalinos relates the necessary qualities to be an architect.
  - Edmund Wilson relayed an anecdote in Axel's Castle in which this author angered some blowhards by being too well-dressed.
  - One of this author's poems begins by comparing the sighing "single wind" with "distant diamonds dying." The speaker of another of this author's poems climbs to see a "temple of time" and describes an arrow as "flying, but yet not flying." This author broke his "Great Silence" by writing "La Jeune Parque." He wrote of "Zeno, Zeno, cruel philosopher Zeno" in a poem that ends with the command "the wind is rising...we must try to live!" For 10 points, name this author of "The Graveyard by the Sea." [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Paul Valery
  - The title creature of one poem by this writer declares, "Tremble, mortals-I'm strong when my insatiate yawn stretches to snap a spring." This poet wrote, "O rounded dome and perfect diadem, I am what's changing secretly in you.
  - I am the only medium for your fears," in a poem describing death as "that empty skull, that everlasting grin." Another of his poems states, "I must, O Sun, worship this heart where you seek to know yourself," and begins by asking, "Who is that weeping, if not simply the wind?" That poem consists of 512 alexandrine couplets and broke his twenty-year hiatus provoked by the death of Stephane Mallarme.
  - This poet created the persona of Monsieur Teste, and declared "The wind is rising...we must try to live!" in a poem set on a "quiet roof, where dove-sails saunter by." For 10 points, name this French poet of "Sketch of a Serpent," "The Young Fate," and "The Graveyard by the Sea." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This leader's overthrow was largely foretold by the "Rodrigazo," a series of mass protests against state-mandated hikes in the price of utilities and fuel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isabel Peron [prompt on Peron]):
    Name this leader who tried to regain popular support by returning from sick leave on Loyalty Day. This leader befriended Jose Lopez Rega through mutual interest in the occult.
  Part 2 (ans: Operation Condor [prompt on Dirty War]):
    Even though Isabel Peron was decidedly on the right wing of Peronism, her overthrow was part of this broad US-backed operation in South America that broadly aimed to repress left-wing movements.
  Part 3 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing [or VGE]):
    This European leader directly backed the overthrow of Isabel Peron, as well as much of Operation Condor. This leader also greenlit Operation Barracuda in the Central African Republic after earlier being embarrassed by gifts from Jean-Bedel Bokassa in the "Affair of the Diamonds."

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This country's high-speed rail system was originally to be powered by gas turbines, but the 1973 oil crisis forced a switch to electric trains. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: France [accept French Republic or Republique francaise]):
    Name this country whose TGV network connects its capital to cities like Strasbourg and Lyon.
  Part 2 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing [accept VGE; prompt on d'Estaing]):
    The TGV was constructed during this man's presidency, which also saw the legalization of abortion. He lost an election to Francois Mitterrand in 1981 after it was revealed he accepted diamonds from Jean-Bedel Bokassa.
  Part 3 (ans: Minitel [or Medium interactif par numerisation d'information telephonique; accept TELETEL]):
    Giscard also promoted the creation of this online network, which was connected using telephone lines. Although limited to France, this was the most popular online service before the advent of the World Wide Web.

[B3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem titled for this substance says that she will "dine on your delectable marrow" after threatening to "murder you with love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: food [accept "Food of Love"; reject specific types of food]):
    Name this substance that titles a Carolyn Kizer poem. In Twelfth Night, Duke Orsino commands, "If music be [this substance] of love, play on."
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery [or Ambroise Paul Toussaint Jules Valery] (Merrill's poem is "Lost in Translation.")):
    Kizer borrows this French poet's line "The whole green sky is dying" in a villanelle about the Gulf War. One of his poems is called a "sunlit paradigm" that evokes a "wellspring of authority" in a poem by James Merrill.
  Part 3 (ans: Chinese [or Hanyu or Zhongwen; accept Mandarin or Guanhua or Beifanghua] (The second poem is Li-Young Lee's "Persimmons.")):
    Kizer's "Dejeuner sur l'herbe" ("day-zhuh-NAY soor LAIRB") is a translation of a poem from this non-French language. In another poem, a native speaker of this language is punished for not knowing the difference between "persimmon" and "precision."

[B4] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem states that if we cannot adorn this location with a "bas-relief" sculpted from the "wars of earth and heaven," we should "let this boundary stone say no / To the dark flights of blasphemy hereafter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the tomb of Edgar Allan Poe [accept "The Tomb of Edgar Poe" or "Le tombeau d'Edgar Poe"; prompt on tomb or tombeau by asking "whose tomb?"]):
    Identify this location described in a poem by Stephane Mallarme which claims that it is the place where "the Poet" is "Changed by Eternity to himself at last."
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery):
    This other French poet said that he found the essential connection between Baudelaire and Poe in the first line of Mallarme's poem. He also described visiting tombs in his poem "The Graveyard by the Sea."
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    This Frenchman described visiting his daughter Leopoldine's grave in "Demain des l'aube" ("duh-MAN day LOBE"). This man was best known as a poet in France during his lifetime, but today he is known for Les miserables.

[B5] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man once invited four garbagemen on their morning shift to come into Elysee (ay-lee-ZAY) Palace for breakfast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing (vah-lay-REE zhees-CAR day-STAN)):
    Name this French president who launched the high-speed TGV (tay-jay-vay) rail and oversaw the last execution in France. This leader blamed Jacques Chirac (jock shee-ROCK) as a spoiler candidate after his 1981 defeat to Francois Mitterrand (fron-SWAH mee-teh-ROND).
  Part 2 (ans: diamonds [or diamond necklaces]):
    Giscard d'Estaing's election defeat was in part due to a scandal involving a gift of these objects he received from the brutal Central African Republic dictator Jean-Bedel Bokassa. Marie Antoinette's reputation was tarnished after a trickster impersonated her to acquire some of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: The Republican Party [or The Republicans; or Parti republicain; or PR; or Les Republicains; or LR]):
    Giscard d'Estaing founded this now-defunct French political party in 1977 as an alternative to Jacques Chirac's neo-Gaullists, and Nicolas Sarkozy led a similarly-named party.

[B6] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man appointed Raymond Barre, known as the "best economist in" his home country, to be his Prime Minister upon his attainment of the presidency. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Valery Marie Rene Georges Giscard d'Estaing [GEESE-card duh-STAHNG] [do NOT accept or prompt on d'Estaing alone, prompt on V.G.E., prompt on Giscard, as it is a common sobriquet]):
    Name this statesman who ruled after The Thirty Glorious Years. When he was accused of accepting diamonds as bribes from Central African Republic-dictator Jean-Bedel Bokassa, he argued that industrial diamonds had no value.
  Part 2 (ans: France [accept the French Republic; accept the French Fifth Republic]):
    Giscard d'Estaing was a president of this country, which signed the Evian Accords with the FLN in 1962, leading to Algerian independence from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Operation Lamantin):
    Giscard d'Estaing ordered this operation, named for an aquatic mammal, where Senegalese Jaguar aircraft were used to assist the Mauritanian president against the Western Saharan-independence seeking POLISARIO Front.

[B7] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: In this author's final novel, one of the title beings named Arcade seeks to overthrow Ialdaboth, or God, with his fellow fallen angels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anatole France [or Francois-Anatole Thibault]):
    Name this author, whose novels include The Revolt of the Angels and Penguin Island. He won the 1921 Nobel Prize in literature for his "Gallic temperament."
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery [or Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valery]):
    France's seat on the Academie Francaise was filled by this poet, who published his masterpiece La Jeune Parque after his "Great Silence" following the death of Stephane Mallarme. He also wrote "The Graveyard by the Sea."
  Part 3 (ans: French Revolution):
    Anatole France's The Gods are Athirst is set during this conflict. Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities ends with Sydney Carton giving up his life in this 18th century conflict so that Charles Darnay can survive.

[B8] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Current Events
     Leadin: Through the Grenelle Agreements, this leader guaranteed a 35% minimum wage increase. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Pompidou):
    Name this longest-serving Prime Minister of France, who broke with his presidential predecessor, Charles de Gaulle, after the May 1968 student protests.
  Part 2 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing [prompt on "d'Estaing"]):
    This president, Pompidou's successor, had to deal with the aftermath of the 1973 oil crisis. Abortion was legalized and the death penalty was abolished under his tenure.
  Part 3 (ans: high-speed rail [accept high-speed trains and obvious equivalents; prompt on just "rail" or "train"]):
    Pompidou and Giscard both promoted the development of TGV, an infrastructure program of this kind. Japan's Shinkansen was an early example of this kind of transport, which was brought to the U.S. with Amtrak's Acela Express.

[B9] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote the line "The paths of glory lead but to the grave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Name this writer who described "Some mute inglorious Milton" and "Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" in his poem "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Graveyard By The Sea" [or reasonable translations for "Le cimetiere marin"] [by Paul Valery]):
    This poem, by a different author, begins and ends with images of a quiet roof and dove sails and asks the "cruel philosopher Zeno, / Have you then pierced me with your feathered arrow."

[B10] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Leadin: As president of the regional council of Auvergne in his later years, this politician played a major role in the creation of the theme park Vulcania which was, as its name suggests, volcano-themed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing [accept VGE]):
    Name this French president whose modernization projects included the TGV high-speed rail. This leader of the Union for French Democracy was in office from 1974 until he lost the 1981 election to the Socialist candidate.
  Part 2 (ans: diamonds):
    The newspaper Le Canard Enchaine unveiled a political scandal in which Giscard was alleged to have accepted these precious items from Bokassa. The Cecil Rhodes-founded De Beers Group mines and sells these gemstones.
  Part 3 (ans: Simone Veil):
    Abortion was legalized in France during the presidency of Giscard, mostly thanks to this Minister of Health for whom the law is usually named. An Auschwitz survivor, this woman is one of the most admired in France.

[B11] 2015 PACE NSC (2015) | Diff: 5 | History
     Leadin: Trains! For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland [or UK; or Great Britain; or England]):
    Early trains such as Stephenson's Rocket were developed in this country's city of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. It was the first country to undergo the Industrial Revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: Adolf Eichmann [or Otto Adolf Eichmann]):
    Later, this Nazi was responsible for coordinating most of the train transit of Jews to death camps. He was executed by hanging in 1962.
  Part 3 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing [prompt on "d'Estaing"]):
    This President of France, the leader of the Independent Republicans, supported the TGV high speed rail project, and held power during its groundbreaking in 1975.

[B12] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet included a five-line stanza consisting of nothing but dots in his poem "The Cistern," and intermittently adopted the persona of Stratis the Sailor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giorgios Seferis [or George Seferis; or Georgios Seferiades]):
    Name this author of the popular poem "Denial," who got his start translating T.S. Eliot into his native language, before publishing poetry of his own in collections such as Turning Point and Mythistorema.
  Part 2 (ans: Modern Greek [or Neo-Hellenic; or Romaic; or Roman]):
    Giorgios Seferis and Odysseus Elytis were the two Literature Nobel laureates who wrote in this language, used in poems such as "Waiting For the Barbarians" and "Ithaca" by Constantin Cavafy.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Valery [or Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valery]):
    Critics often link Seferis's metaphysical poetry to that of this Frenchman, who claimed that "A vivid and a clear-cut pain / Is better than a drowsy torment" in his sonnet "The Bee," which appears in the collection Charms, just like his masterpiece "The Graveyard by the Sea."

[B13] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: G.S. Fraser's translation of this poem opens by asking "Who or what is crying, if not only the wind, at this hour / Only, of uttermost diamonds?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "La Jeune Parque" [or "The Youngest Parca"; or "The Youngest of the Fates"]):
    Name this poem written in 512 lines of rhymed alexandrine couplets by the author of "The Cemetery by the Sea". Its 1917 publication broke its author's nearly-twenty-year "Great Silence" after the death of Stephane Mallarme.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery [or Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valery]):
    Both "La Jeune Parque" and "The Cemetery by the Sea" were written by this last major French symbolist, whose poem "Palme" inspired James Merrill's own poem Lost in Translation.
  Part 3 (ans: Edmond Teste [or Monsieur Teste; or Mr. Teste]):
    Valery wrote a series of essays about this character, an extremely dedicated intellectual whose motto "Que peut un homme?" means "Of what is man capable?". This character also claims that "stupidity is not my strong suit".

[B14] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem opens as the speaker explains that the title vessel "was going down impassive Rivers" and "no longer felt" itself "guided by haulers." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Drunken Boat" (or "Le Bateau Ivre")):
    Name this Rimbaud poem whose title vessel cannot "Follow in the waves of the cotton boats, / Nor cross through the pride of flags and flames, / Nor swim under the eyes of prison ships."
  Part 2 (ans: symbolism):
    Arthur Rimbaud is a member of this literary movement whose other members include Auguste Villiers de l'Isle-Adam and Stephane Mallarme.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Valery):
    This French author of "The Graveyard by the Sea" and "The Young Fate" was also a prominent member of the symbolist movement.

[B15] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man's namesake doctrine promised that Italian terrorists who took refuge in France during the Years of Lead would not be extradited. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterrand):
    Name this French president who ordered the bombing of the Rainbow Warrior and appointed Jacques Chirac as PM in 1986, thus beginning the first "cohabitation" period.
  Part 2 (ans: French Socialist Party (or Parti socialiste, or PS)):
    Mitterrand was a member of this left wing party whose most recent president, Francois Hollande, was elected in 2012.
  Part 3 (ans: Valery Marie Rene Georges Giscard d'Estaing (or VGE)):
    Mitterrand became president by defeating this centrist politician in the 198 election.This man lost popularity after he accepted a gift of diamonds from his buddy Jean-Bedel Bokassa.

[B16] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This politician suffered politically due to an affair in which he was offered diamonds by Bokassa I, but his government later ordered Operation Barracuda, which overthrew Bokassa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Valery (Marie Rene Georges) Giscard d'Estaing):
    Name this politician, who also ordered a military intervention against the Polisario Front. His support was weakened in a 1981 election when one of his former Prime Ministers ran for the Rally for the Republic.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacques Chirac):
    This first Prime Minister during Giscard's tenure ran on the Rally for the Republic ticket in 1991. He was the Gaullist leader during the period of "cohabitation" with Francois Mitterrand.
  Part 3 (ans: Socialist party [or Partite Socialiste]):
    Francois Mitterrand's party was this left-wing one, the traditional opposition to Gaullist parties, and the current ruling party under Francois Hollande.

[B17] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The literary style associated with this concept is juxtaposed against a style exemplifed by Dante that tries to give language physical solidity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lightness):
    Name this concept that a novelist outlined as the guiding principle of his artistic method in the frst of his Six Memos for the Next Millennium, which he defned as "the subtraction of weight."
  Part 2 (ans: Italo Calvino):
    This Italian author discussed "lightness" in the first of his Norton Lectures, which he died before delivering. He illustrated "lightness" in the stories from his collection Cosmicomics.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Valery):
    Calvino describes lightness by quoting this poet's aphorism, "One should be light like a bird, and not like a feather". This poet collected his sayings in his diaries titled the Cahiers, and went through a nineteen-year period of "silence" when he did not publish any poetry.

[B18] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man was aided by Alexandre Banza in launching the Saint-Sylvestre Coup targeting Jean Izamo and David Dacko. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Bedel Bokassa [or Bokassa I or Salah Eddine Ahmed Bokassa]):
    Identify this African dictator who massacred 100 schoolchildren for refusing to wear uniforms, who was branded a cannibal after several witnesses at his trial claimed that his walk-in freezer was not walk-out.
  Part 2 (ans: Central African Republic [accept Central African Empire from hardcore Bokassa-ists]):
    Bokassa spent around ten years ruining this geographically-appropriately named African country whose capital is Bangui.
  Part 3 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing):
    Bokassa was best buds with this French president who lost the 1981 election to Mitterrand after it was revealed that Bokassa had been greasing this leader's palms with diamonds stolen from the CAR. His economic program, overseen by Prime Minister Raymond Barre, included the launching of the TGV train.

[B19] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man was President of France from 1974 to 1981, and was succeeded by Mitterrand. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing [accept either underlined part; accept VGE]):
    Name this man who embarrassingly received diamonds from Bokassa I. This man, who lowered the voting age to 18, had a subordinate who labeled his pro-European stance as siding with "foreigners" in the Call of Cochin.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacques Chirac):
    That subordinate of Giscard, who was instrumental in Giscard's election, was this man who was President of France from 1995 to 2007. He also spoke against the US invasion of Iraq.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles de Gaulle):
    Giscard publicly advocated voting "no" on a referendum by this man to reform the Senate, which helped bring about this man's resignation. He had earlier founded the Fifth Republic and in World War II, he led the Free French.

[B20] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Candidates for this position must receive nominations from at least five hundred elected officials; a 2000 referendum cut its term from seven years to five. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: President of France [or obvious equivalents]):
    Name this office, which was won by Francois Hollande in 2012.
  Part 2 (ans: French Socialist Party [or Parti socialiste]):
    Hollande is a member of this political party. Sarkozy defeated its nominee, Segolene Royal, in runoffs in 2007 to win the election.
  Part 3 (ans: Valery Giscard d'Estaing):
    Sarkozy became the first president to serve only one term since this man, president from 1974 to 1981. More recently, this man was the head of the Convention on the Future of Europe, which created a draft for the European Constitution that failed to be ratified in 2004.

[B21] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these orchestra conductors.
  Part 1 (ans: Hector Berlioz):
    This 19th century composer wrote a treatise on conducting, and is often regarded as the first great conductor. He also wrote an influential Treatise on Instrumentation and a requiem that features four offstage brass bands.
  Part 2 (ans: Valery Abisalovich Gergiev):
    This Russian directs the Mariinsky Theatre and has been the principal conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra since 2007. He is known for favoring the Russian opera repertoire and conducting with a toothpick.
  Part 3 (ans: Seiji Ozawa):
    This Japanese conductor worked with the Boston Symphony Orchestra for 27 years, and with the Vienna State Opera in the 2000s. Recent health problems, including esophageal cancer, have kept him relatively inactive.
