=== STOCK CLUES: Francisco de Zurbarán ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Spain [The opening clues refer to Francisco de Zurbaran, Jusepe de Ribera, bodegon paintings by Juan Sanchez Cotan, and Bartolome Esteban Murillo, respectively.]
  - An artist from this country painted Bruno of Cologne witnessing meat turning into ash in front of Carthusian monks.
  - Another painter from this country depicted a bearded woman breastfeeding her baby next to a stone slab.
  - Strings suspending food in windowsills appear in a genre of paintings from this country such as Quince, Cabbage, Melon and Cucumber.
  - Another artist from this country painted The Young Beggar and Children Eating Grapes and a Melon.
  - Cupid holds a pink ribbon and a mirror in front of the title goddess in a painting from this country.
  - A girl steps on a dog on the left of a group portrait from this country around the Infanta Margarita.
  - The Rokeby Venus and Las Meninas were painted in, for 10 points, what home country of Diego Velazquez? [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Spain [accept Kingdom of Spain or Reino de Espana] (the other unmentioned painters are Jusepe de Ribera and Francisco de Zurbaran, respectively)
  - An artist born in this country who painted many scenes showing St.
  - Bartholomew splayed as if coming out of the frame during his Martyrdom also painted a club-footed boy holding a paper asking for alms.
  - That artist from this country formed the Cabal of Naples with an Italian and a Greek painter.
  - A painter from this country depicted a pure white lamb with its feet bound in Agnus Dei and painted a saint wearing plain white robes while chained to a barely-visible tree trunk in The Martyrdom of Saint Serapion.
  - An artist from this country reused the model from his Christ in the House of Martha and Mary for a painting of an old woman frying eggs.
  - That artist from this country showed Cupid holding a mirror to the title Rokeby Venus.
  - For 10 points, name this home country of Diego Velazquez. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Francisco de Zurbaran
  - This artist may have intended an homage to the Virgin Mary with a still-life in which a plate full of lemons, a basket of oranges, and a cup of water with a rose in its saucer are spaced at equal intervals. [PWR]
  - The elderly title character of another of this artist's paintings instructs a young novice in the ways of his religious order as hooded, white-robed monks prepare for a meal. [PWR]
  - He unusually showed four nails rather than three used to crucify Jesus in his painting of Christ Crucified. [PWR]
  - St. [PWR]
  - Hugh in the Refectory is one of many paintings this man did for the Carthusians.
  - This artist also painted a hooded monk with ripped robe clutching an upside-down (*) skull up to his chest in a painting of a saint "in meditation." The title saint of a painting by this artist wears a badge of the Mercedarians and slumps his head to the right as he dies with both of his arms tied to a tree by ropes. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this artist of The Martyrdom of Saint Serapion and many paintings of Saint Francis, a Baroque Spanish painter from Seville. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Depending on the amount of tenebrism used, paintings by an artist from this country can be divided into "cool," "warm," and "vaporous" styles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spain [or Kingdom of Spain or Reino de Espana]):
    Name this birth country of the artist of Boys Eating Grapes and Melon. A portrait of a pope by another artist from this country provides the basis for a "study" of a ghastly figure by Francis Bacon.
  Part 2 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran ("zur-bar-RAWN")):
    Early in his career, Bartolome Esteban Murillo ("moor-REE-yoh") based his art style on the works of this tenebrist nicknamed the "Spanish Caravaggio." This Seville-based artist painted a lamb with its legs tied up in the work Agnus Dei.
  Part 3 (ans: Diego Velazquez [or Diego Rodriguez de Silva y Velazquez]):
    Like Murillo, this artist of Portrait of Innocent X ("the tenth") lightened his use of tenebrism later in his career. This court painter also created Las Meninas.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This black-garbed man kneels and presents his work to a different figure's right hand in the most famous work by Orcagna, the Strozzi Altarpiece. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saint Thomas Aquinas [or Tommaso d'Aquino; accept The Apotheosis of Saint Thomas Aquinas; prompt on Saint Thomas] (The unnamed painting is The Apotheosis of Saint Thomas Aquinas by Francisco de Zurbaran.)):
    Name this title figure of a 1631 altarpiece, that unusually for its artist, does not use tenebrism. A group including Charles V kneels below this man in the clouds in that painting created for a college in Seville.
  Part 2 (ans: Raphael [or Raffaello; or Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino; or Raphael Santi]):
    Thomas Aquinas appears in the bottom right of a painting by this artist, where he turns to the right to face Pope Innocent VIII. This artist's set of four paintings in the Stanza della Segnatura includes La Disputa.
  Part 3 (ans: Carlo Crivelli):
    The most reproduced painting of Aquinas is likely this artist's altarpiece panel of him holding a book and a model church. This Italian artist included a trompe-l'œil fly and a cucumber in his circa-1480 Virgin and Child.

[B3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting of one of these animals shows it laying gloomily on the floor with its legs tied together. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lambs [accept Lamb of God; accept Agnus Dei; accept Adoration of the Mystic Lamb; prompt on sheep]):
    Name this animal. The central panel of the Ghent Altarpiece shows angels surrounding one of these animals "of God" as it bleeds into a golden cup.
  Part 2 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    This artist created the aforementioned painting of the Lamb of God with its legs tied together, entitled Agnus Dei. This artist used chiaroscuro to depict the title white-robed figure hanging lifelessly in a crucifixion-esque pose in The Martyrdom of Saint Serapion.
  Part 3 (ans: seals [accept the seven seals of God; accept Opening of the Fifth Seal or The Fifth Seal of the Apocalypse]):
    Christian iconography often depicted the Lamb of God sitting on a book with these objects hanging from it. A sacrificial lamb may have been painted in the lost portion of an El Greco painting titled for one of these objects depicting a man in blue raising his arms to the sky.

[B4] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: When life gives you lemons, make art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giorgio de Chirico):
    This artist took that idea to its extreme, since he painted his first canvas, Still Life with Lemons, after his father's death in 1906. This Greek-born Italian artist painted Melancholy and Mystery of a Street.
  Part 2 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    This Baroque painter's best-known genre painting is titled Still Life with Lemons, Oranges, and Rose. A small scroll reading "B. Serapius" appears at the right of this painter's dark Martyrdom of Saint Serapion.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil or Republica Federativa do Brasil] (The Egg in question is by Tarsila do Amaral.)):
    The most expensive artwork from this country ever sold by a living artist, titled My Lemon, doesn't actually show any lemons, but rather a bright array of multicolored flowers. Another artist from this country painted several versions of The Egg, which shows a purple snake wrapping around the title object and a red spike.

[B5] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The introduction of this type of work to Spanish painting is credited to the Toledo-born painter Blas de Prado after his travels to the Court of Morocco. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: still-life):
    Name this type of work. Austere, realistic works of this type in their bodegon genre were created by de Prado's student, Juan Sanchez Cotan, and included common pantry items among other elements like fruits and bowls.
  Part 2 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    This later Spanish painter created many still-lives influenced by the earlier works of Cotan. The title Mercedarian Saint slumps his head and dies with arms bound to a tree by ropes in his Martyrdom of Saint Serapion.
  Part 3 (ans: El Escorial [Monasterio de El Escorial or Royal Monastery of San Lorenzo El Real]):
    In addition to introducing the still life genre, de Prado was also a prominent painter for Philip II while housed at this monastery and palace designed by Juan Bautista de Toledo northwest of Madrid.

[B6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The text of this engraving calls its central subjects the "unfortunate fruits" of the object that dominates its center. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hanging [or La Pendaison]):
    Name this engraving, the famous eleventh plate of The Great Miseries of War, which depicts scenes from the Thirty Years' War.
  Part 2 (ans: Breda [accept Siege of Breda or The Surrender of Breda or La rendicion de Breda]):
    About a decade before The Great Miseries of War, Jacques Callot made a series of over 200 engravings of the 1624-25 siege of this Dutch city during the Eighty Years' War. A Diego Velazquez painting, likely made after a study of Callot's engravings, depicts Justin of Nassau "surrendering" this city to the Spanish.
  Part 3 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    The Surrender of Breda formerly hung in the Salon de Reinos in the Buen Retiro Palace alongside The Defense of Cadiz against the English and a cycle on the Trials of Hercules, works by this "Spanish Caravaggio."

[B7] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Ancient Greek kriophoros (kree-oh-FOR-ohs) statues depicted Hermes carrying this kind of animal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rams [accept sheep or lambs or ovis or ovine]):
    Name this type of animal that, in a Spanish artist's Agnus Dei (AHN-yoos DAY-ee), lies with its feet tied on a field of black and gray.
  Part 2 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    The aforementioned Agnus Dei was completed by this Baroque Spanish painter of The Martyrdom of Saint Serapion. He often appears last on alphabetical lists of notable painters.
  Part 3 (ans: Francisco Goya [or Francisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes]):
    This Spanish painter depicted a fancily dressed boy riding a ram in the aptly titled Boy on a Ram. This court painter to Charles IV decorated the walls of the Quinta del Sordo with the Black Paintings.

[B8] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A lamb's feet are bound together in this artist's painting Agnus Dei, and Mary stands above a galleon and a castle in his Immaculate Conception. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    Identify this chiaroscuro-loving artist who depicted Hercules about to bring the club down on the Nemean Lion as part of the ten panels he made on the Labors of Hercules for the Hall of Realms in the Buen Retiro Palace in the 1630s.
  Part 2 (ans: The Defense of Cadiz against the English [or The Rescue of Cadiz against the English or Defensa de Cadiz contra los ingleses]):
    This other Zurbaran painting for the Hall of Realms shared a theme with a play written by Rodrigo de Herrera. The gout-afflicted Duke of Fernandian gestures at his generals from an armchair in the foreground of this painting as a giant sea battle takes place in the background.
  Part 3 (ans: The Surrender of Breda [or Las Lanzas or La rendicion de Breda]):
    The most famous painting originally commissioned for the Hall of Realms is this Diego Velazquez painting, which inspired Stefan Zweig's scenario for the Strauss opera Freidenstag. Ambrosio Spinola receives the keys to the title city in this painting.

[B9] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting by this artist, the massive white scapular worn by the central figure contrasts with the blackness of the background and is evidence that that man, whose head lulls onto his shoulder, has not been disemboweled or partially decapitated yet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    Name this religious, tenebrist painter, whose works include a painting in which Peter appears crucified upside down on the wall before Peter Nolasco, as well as The Martyrdom of St. Serapion.
  Part 2 (ans: Virgin Mary [accept "The Virgin"]):
    In one painting by Zurbaran, this woman descends from pink-clouded heaven with the heads of children or putti emerging from the bottom of her robe; Zurbaran also depicted her sitting with her son Jesus in their house in Nazareth.
  Part 3 (ans: Apotheosis of Saint Thomas Aquinas):
    In 1631, Zurbaran executed a large altarpiece depicting this saint surrounded by the Church Fathers as he looks up at a dove approaching him from the top center, as the painting's Dominican patrons and Charles V look on from below.

[B10] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist showed a man in a flowing white robe whose two hands are held in ropes that blend into the top of the painting in his depiction of Saint Serapion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francisco de Zurbaran):
    Name this painter, known as the Spanish Caravaggio for his use of chiaroscuro, who also executed a notable rendering of the Death of St. Bonaventure.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Velazquez):
    One contemporary of Zurbaran was this court painter of Philip IV of Spain whose notable works include The Surrender of Breda and Las Meninas.
  Part 3 (ans: Bodegon):
    This term is used to refer to still lifes of objects found in pantries, one of which was executed by Zurbaran and shows a dead sheep. It was a common scene amongst early Spanish painters.
