=== STOCK CLUES: Robert Capa ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Capa [or Endre Erno Friedmann]
  - In a picture by this photographer, a woman holding a parasol walks on the side of a dirt road as two men on motorcycles pass her. [PWR]
  - A bald woman holds her baby as a crowd of onlookers march in this photographer's The Shaved Woman of Chartres. [PWR]
  - This photographer's brother Cornell joined a cooperative he co-founded with Henri Cartier-Bresson and David Seymour, Magnum Photos.
  - This photographer's collaborator Gerda Taro may have taken one of his images depicting Federico Borrell Garcia.
  - While in French Indochina, this photographer (*) died after stepping on a landmine. [PWR]
  - The "Magnificent Eleven" images set on D-Day were captured by this photographer, who earlier depicted a loyalist militiaman losing his grip on his rifle after being shot during the Spanish Civil War.
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian war photographer who took The Falling Soldier. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert [accept Endre Erno Friedmann; accept Robert Doisneau or Robert Capa or Robert Mapplethorpe or Robert Michael Mapplethorpe]
  - In one work, a photographer with this first name showed eight bread rolls on a table in front of the arms of Pablo Picasso.
  - The contents of the "Mexican Suitcase" suggested that a photographer known by this first name faked a photo of Federico Borrell Garcia while working with Gerda Taro.
  - A photographer with this first name had two actors stage his work The Kiss by the Town Hall.
  - A photographer known by this first name took the "Magnificent Eleven" photos of D-Day, as well as The Falling Soldier.
  - The Corcoran Gallery hosted a controversial exhibition by a photographer with this first name titled The Perfect Moment, which included many explicit photos of BDSM.
  - For 10 points, give this first name shared by photographers with surnames Doisneau, Capa, and Mapplethorpe. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Capa [or Endre Friedmann; accept Andre Friedman]
  - In a photograph by this artist, sparsely vegetated hills appear behind a Sicilian peasant who uses a long stick to point out troop movements to a crouching soldier. [PWR]
  - Thousands of lost negatives taken by this photographer, Gerda Taro, and David Seymour were rediscovered in 2007, as documented in the film The Mexican Suitcase. [PWR]
  - A blurry photograph by this artist shows a black dog running alongside a woman, the only figure in focus, as she seeks shelter during an air raid. [PWR]
  - This artist famously stated, "If your pictures aren't good enough, you're not close enough." After a darkroom accident, only a fewimages (*) survived of the ones this artist took while wading past metal hedgehogs with the 1st Infantry Division.
  - Those images, known as The Magnificent Eleven, show Omaha Beach on D-Day.
  - In this man's most famous work, a Spanish Loyalist drops his rifle and collapses backward as a bullet enters his head.
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian war photographer who created The Falling Soldier. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Robert Sargent depicted soldiers in this war leaving a Higgins boat in the photograph Into the Jaws of Death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: World War II [or WWII or the Second World War]):
    Name this war in which Joe Rosenthal depicted soldiers lifting the American flag during the Battle of Iwo Jima.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Capa):
    This photographer took over one hundred shots of the D-Day invasion, but only his Magnificent Eleven survive. During the Spanish Civil War, this collaborator of Gerda Taro photographed a soldier identified as Federico Borell Garcia.
  Part 3 (ans: China [or Zhongguo]):
    In 1938, Capa photographed a helmet-wearing child soldier from this country. Henri Cartier-Bresson's photobook named for [this country] In Transition includes a photograph of a crowd of people waiting to exchange gold for money.

[B2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A medal named after this man is the premier award given in the field of war photography. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Erno Friedmann]):
    Name this Hungarian photographer who's picture The Falling Soldier was taken during his time as a photographer in the Spanish Civil War.
  Part 2 (ans: Magnum Photos):
    Capa joined with David Seymour and Henri Cartier-Bresson to found this photography agency. Cartier-Bresson invited Robert Doisneau to join this agency, though he declined.
  Part 3 (ans: Museum of Modern Art [or MoMA]):
    Capa was featured in the Family of Man exhibition curated by Edward Steichen at this museum. Like the Guggenheim, this New York City museum specializes in contemporary pieces.

[B3] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A photo by I. Russell Sorgi shows a woman doing this action in front of the Genesee Hotel in Buffalo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: falling [or jumping; accept committing suicide by jumping; accept synonyms for falling, such as plummeting; accept The Falling Man; prompt on dying or about to die]):
    Name this action that also titles a chilling Richard Drew photograph that shows a man crossing his legs while suspended upside-down in front of the Twin Towers on 9/11.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Erno Friedmann]):
    This war photographer captured a soldier falling backwards after being shot in the head during the Spanish Civil War. This photojournalist later died himself when he stepped on a landmine in Indochina.
  Part 3 (ans: Yves Klein ("eev clan")):
    This artist appears to be falling from a second-story rooftop in his photo series Leap into the Void, which was collected in his artbook Dimanche ("dee-MONSH").

[B4] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Much of this photographer's early work was actually done by his companion, Gerda Taro, who shared his pseudonym. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Friedmann]):
    Name this Hungarian war photographer who claimed to have caught an American soldier being killed by sniper fire in his "picture of the last man to die," titled The Falling Soldier.
  Part 2 (ans: World War II [or WW2]):
    Capa was awarded the Medal of Freedom for his photographs documenting this war, which included his Magnificent Eleven photos of D-Day.
  Part 3 (ans: Magnum Photos):
    Capa co-founded this photography cooperative with others like Henri Cartier-Bresson. Nearly 200,000 works originally made by members of this group were donated to the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin.

[B5] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer some questions about famous war photographers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa [accept Endre Friedmann]):
    The "Falling Soldier" photograph showing the moment immediately after the death of a Spanish Civil War soldier was made by this Hungarian photojournalist who covered several early 20th century conflicts. He died after stepping on a mine in French Indochina.
  Part 2 (ans: Iwo Jima):
    Joe Rosenthal took an iconic image of five marines raising a flag on this Pacific Island during World War II. Clint Eastwood directed a film told from the Japanese perspective called Letters from This place.
  Part 3 (ans: The Soviet Union Flag [accept the flag of the USSR; accept communist flag or hammer and sickle flag]):
    Yevgeny Khaldei took another World War II photo of a soldier raising this object over the Reichstag in Berlin. Khaldei reported that this object was made from three red tablecloths by his uncle.

[B6] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about photographs of people dying in different ways.
  Part 1 (ans: a Buddhist monk burning himself to death [or the monk's self-immolation; or anything implying the suicide of Buddhist monk Thich Quang Đuc by fire]):
    Malcolm Browne is best known for his photo of this event, which took place outside the Cambodian embassy in Saigon in 1963. A description is acceptable.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Capa):
    This photographer's "The Falling Soldier" is said to depict a soldier collapsing during the Spanish Civil War after being shot, although there is some doubt as to whether it was staged. This Hungarian photojournalist is best known for his photos of World War II combat.
  Part 3 (ans: Stanley Forman):
    This photographer won the 1976 Pulitzer and the World Press Photo of the Year for his shot of two girls tumbling from the fifth story of a building in "Fire Escape Collapse." He won another Pulitzer the next year for "The Soiling of Old Glory."

[B7] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about photographs shot immediately after a person was shot, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa):
    A man in a white shirt flings his rifle away with his right hand after being shot in The Falling Soldier by this photographer, whose other works include a series of shots taken during the D-Day landings at Omaha Beach, The Magnificent Eleven.
  Part 2 (ans: Lee Harvey Oswald):
    In a 1963 photo by Robert H. Jackson, a man in a light grey suit and cowboy hat looks shocked toward his left as this man brings his arms to cover his abdomen after having just been shot by Jack Ruby.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary Ann Vecchio):
    In a 1970 John Filo photograph, this then-14-year-old girl kneels screaming beside the face-down body of Jeffrey Miller after he was shot on the campus of Kent State University by a National Guardsman.

[B8] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series originally contained 106 photographs, but most were destroyed by Life magazine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Magnificent Eleven):
    Identify this series of nearly a dozen photographs depicting the Omaha Beach invasion on D-Day. The artist's autobiography takes its name from the caption of some of these photos, "slightly out of focus."
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Friedmann]):
    The Magnificent Eleven is a series by this Hungarian photographer, who captured a "loyalist militiaman at the moment of death" in The Falling Soldier.
  Part 3 (ans: the Soviet Union [or the USSR; or Russia; or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or the Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik; or the CCCP; or the SSSR]):
    In 1947, Capa and John Steinbeck toured this country, producing a photo-illustrated "Journal" of the experience that included some haunting images of the ruins of Stalingrad.

[B9] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer took the "Magnificent Eleven" photographs during the D-Day landings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Friedmann]):
    Name this Hungarian photographer of The Falling Soldier.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    The Falling Soldier depicts a death during this conflict, which was also depicted in Children Playing in the Ruins. It also inspired Calder's Mercury Fountain and Picasso's Guernica.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    Capa founded Magnum Photos with this French photojournalist, who captured the "decisive moment" in works like Children Playing in the Ruins. Two of his most famous photos depict a bicycle from the top of a staircase and a smug-looking boy holding two wine bottles.

[B10] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's journey was delayed by Hurricane Donna and eventually extended from Long Island to Fremont Peak. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charley):
    Name this French poodle whose lack of innoculations prevented his owner from taking a planned route across Canada during the Detroit segment of his journey in a 1960 book.
  Part 2 (ans: John Steinbeck):
    Travels With Charley is a critique of changing America by this author of Sea of Cortez and The Wayward Bus.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Capa):
    Steinbeck's other nonfiction includes 1948's A Russian Journal, which was createdin collaboration with this photographer of The Magnificent Eleven, images of D-Day, and The Falling Soldier.

[B11] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man died after stepping on a landmine in the First Indochina War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Capa [or Endre Erno Friedmann]):
    Name this Hungarian photographer who is credited with photographing a dying militiaman in a work known as Falling Soldier. That work's true origins have been long disputed.
  Part 2 (ans: D-Day [or Invasion of Normandy; or Operation Overlord]):
    A darkroom technician accidentally destroyed all but eleven photographs Capa took of this event, which served as a visual inspiration for the opening sequence of a 1998 Steven Spielberg film starring Tom Hanks.
  Part 3 (ans: Magnum Photos):
    Capa was a co-founder of this international photography cooperative along with men like David "Chim" Seymour and George Rodger. Another member of this group, Eve Arnold, took iconic photos of Marilyn Monroe during the filming of The Misfits.

[B12] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: With her husband Erskine Caldwell, this artist compiled a series about Depression-era Southerners entitled You Have Seen Their Faces, and she also captured the German invasion of Moscow. 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Bourke-White):
    Name this photographer, who depicted Mahatma Gandhi at his spinning wheel.
  Part 2 (ans: Life Magazine):
    Bourke-White provided the photograph for the cover of the first issue of this Henry Luce-edited photojournalism magazine. It famously ran the photograph of the nurse and sailor kissing on V-J Day.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Capa):
    This war photographer and frequent contributor to Life Magazine took a series of photographs of the D-Day landing. He also depicted a soldier with his rifle outstretched as he died in the Spanish Civil War.
