=== STOCK CLUES: Satyajit Ray ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 27 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Kolkata [or Calcutta] (The films mentioned are: Interview by Mrinal Sen; Charulata, Mahanagar, and Apur Sansar by Satyajit Ray. Ray created Professor Shonku and Feluda and was a protege of Jean Renoir.)
  - In a 1971 film, a laundry strike in this city thwarts a man trying to wash his only suit for an interview. [PWR]
  - In a film set in this city, a bored woman peers through her house's blinds at its streets, then stares at her oblivious husband, all through opera glasses. [PWR]
  - A woman wears sunglasses and lipstick for her new job as a saleswoman in this title "big city" of a 1963 film. [PWR]
  - A jobless aspiring novelist in this city marries his cousin on a whim in a 1959 film titled for his "world." Two parks in this city are themed on a director's characters Professor (*) Shonku and Feluda. 1960s films about this city's women include The Cloud-Capped Star and Charulata. [PWR]
  - A director from this city, who began as location scout for The River by Jean Renoir, shot in this city's film hub of Tollygunge  for urban scenes in the two sequels to Pather Panchali .
  - For 10 points, Satyajit Ray  was from what city in West Bengal? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Satyajit Ray ("SHOT-toh-jeet RYE") [or Shottojit Ray]
  - While shooting during a storm, this director's frequent cinematographer used light-colored surfaces to reflect light, thereby creating bounce lighting. [PWR]
  - This director included shots of a balding man grabbing an umbrella and a dog running inside in a sequence that depicts a boy watching his sister spin in the rain. [PWR]
  - Vittoria de Sica's Bicycle Thieves inspired a trilogy by this director, whose first installation features a shot of a brother and sister running through a (*) grassy field to see a passing train.
  - This director, who scouted locations for Jean Renoir's film The River, created coming-of-age films scored by Ravi Shankar that tell the story of an aspiring writer and the struggles of his rural family.
  - That trilogy by this director begins with Pather Panchali.
  - For 10 points, name this Bengali director of the Apu Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Reel Knowledge (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Satyajit Ray
  - This director explained the challenges he faced making his first films in the book Speaking of Films, and contrasted his native country's cinema with that of America and Italy in Our Films, Their Films. [PWR]
  - In one film, this director's camera tracks quickly to keep a close-up on pair of opera glasses as the woman carrying them runs to the windows of a mansion.
  - This director ended one film with a shot behind the protagonist, unusually not showing his eyes, as he walks towards a train under a cloud in the sky. [PWR]
  - In the climax of his first film, this director's camera cuts from distraught parents to a shot that zooms in on the young protagonist, looking stunned while holding an (*) umbrella. [PWR]
  - In a famous scene, the young protagonist of this director's first film, the son of a temple priest, can be seen running through the gaps in a train rolling through a field of pampas grass.
  - That film was the first by this director about a character who moves to Varanasi in the second film and aspires to be a writer in the third.
  - For 10 points, identify this Bengali director behind Aparajito and Panther Panchali, two entries in his Apu Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 META (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Satyajit Ray
  - One of this author's stories about a friendly alien referred to as "Mr.
  - Ang" first appeared in a children's magazine he edited, Sandesh.
  - This author's collection of nonsense poems, Today Bandha Ghorar Dim, contains a translation of "Jabberwocky" into his native language.
  - In one of this author's stories, the fictional writer Jatayu attempted to impress the central characters on a train to Jaisalmer with his collection of knives.
  - In that story, Mukul is kidnapped in an attempt to find hidden treasure in the title Sonar Kella. [PWR]
  - This author created Topshe, who accompanies the detective (*) Feluda in many of his stories. [PWR]
  - This author based a work in a different medium on a Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay novel about the struggles of the Roy family in rural India.
  - For 10 points, name this Bengali author who is better known for directing movies such as Pather Panchali, part of his Apu Trilogy. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this film, a man's blood splashes on a map which states "The sun never sets on the British empire." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: RRR):
    Name this film in which a character claims that it's "not salsa, not flamenco" before performing the number "Naatu Naatu."
  Part 2 (ans: Mayabazar):
    This 1957 film, based on a sub-plot from the Mahabharata popular in Telugu-speaking areas, was shot simultaneously in Telugu and Tamil. It was co-directed by Chakrapani.
  Part 3 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    While not a Telugu speaker himself, this director's films - including the Apu trilogy - massively influenced Telugu directors such as K. Vishwanath.

[B2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Because he found hunting cruel, the director of this film did not direct a rapidly cutting sequence in which its main cast shoot rifles at rabbits and birds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rules of the Game [or Le regle du jeu]):
    Name this 1939 comedy-drama set on the eve of World War II. At its end, the gamekeeper Schumacher mistakenly kills the aviator Andre Jurieux (JOO-rue) instead of Octave.
  Part 2 (ans: French impressionism):
    Jean Renoir's Rules of the Game exemplifies poetic realism, though his earliest films are classified under a movement of this name. A movement in painting with this name is exemplified by the works of his father, Auguste Renoir.
  Part 3 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    This director, who praised The Rules of the Game for refusing to "wear its innovations on its sleeve," was the assistant director for Renoir's The River. This director's own films include Charulata and the Apu Trilogy.

[B3] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film ends with Elizabeth Russell returning to England after she falls in unrequited love with the protagonist, Bhuvan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Lagaan [or Lagaan: Once Upon a Time in India]):
    Name this 2001 epic film, in which soldiers of the British Raj challenge the Indian villagers of Champaner to a game of cricket, in order to decide whether or not they have to pay a colonial tax.
  Part 2 (ans: Bollywood [prompt on Bombay cinema or Hindu cinema]):
    Lagaan is a historical epic from the Indian film industry that is usually known by this name. This film industry is known for its Hindi-language musical numbers and is based in Mumbai.
  Part 3 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    The impact of British colonialism on the Indian rural poor is also depicted in this Indian director's Apu Trilogy, which begins with the film Pather Panchali.

[B4] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about film adaptations of Henrik Ibsen plays:
  Part 1 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    One of this director's final works was 1990's Ganashatru ("GONE-ah-SHAH-thru"), an adaptation of Ibsen's An Enemy of The People. A brother and sister witness a train passing by a crop field in an iconic scene from this director's Pather Panchali ("puh-THERE pun-CHAH-lee"),
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gregory [prompt on My Dinner With Andre]):
    For a 2013 adaptation of The Master Builder, Jonathan Demme ("deh-ME") cast this French-born actor and theater director in the role of Knut Brovik. In another film, this actor meets with a character played by Wallace Shawn in the Cafe des Artistes.
  Part 3 (ans: Anthony Hopkins):
    This actor starred as Torvald Helmer in a 1973 film adaptation of A Doll's House and starred as Dr. Hannibal Lecter in The Silence of the Lambs.

[B5] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: When this character goes to a confessional, the camera reveals that the 'priest' is actually his chess opponent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonius Block [accept either underlined part] (From The Seventh Seal)):
    Name this character portrayed by Max von Sydow. After returning from the crusades, this character challenges Death to a game of chess in order to prolong his life in an Ingmar Bergman film.
  Part 2 (ans: 2001: A Space Odyssey):
    In this Stanley Kubrick film, astronaut Frank Poole resigns his chess game against the seemingly infallible computer HAL 9000. Later in this film, David Bowman becomes the Star Child after encountering a black monolith.
  Part 3 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    In this director's The Chess Players, two nobles become so obsessed with the game that they ignore the impending British takeover of their territory. This protege of Jean Renoir also directed Pather Panchali, which is the first entry in his Apu trilogy.

[B6] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a film in this language, a woman dying of tuberculosis throws herself into her brother's arms and yells "Brother, I want to live! Brother, I will live!"-a cry that echoes throughout the surrounding hills as they swirl around her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bengali [or Bangla]):
    Name this language of movies like The Cloud-Capped Star and The Music Room.
  Part 2 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    Star Bengali directors of the Parallel Cinema era included Ritwik Ghatak, Mrinal Sen, and this director of Aparajito and The Big City. He worked closely with cinematographer Subrata Mitra.
  Part 3 (ans: Bicycle Thieves [or Ladri di biciclette; or The Bicycle Thief]):
    The neorealist aesthetic of Ray's Apu Trilogy and Bimal Roy's Do Bigha Zamin were influenced by this Vittorio de Sica film about Antonio's desperate search for the title stolen vehicle.

[B7] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The script of E.T. may have partly ripped off The Alien, a story by a writer in this language who also wrote science fiction stories about Professor Shonku. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bengali [or Bangla] (the author in the leadin is Satyajit Ray)):
    Name this language, the mother tongue of an author who used English for a 1905 story in which Sultana dreams of Ladyland, a utopia where work days are two hours and electric air-cars have been invented thanks to women taking over society from men.
  Part 2 (ans: Ramayana):
    Long before Rokeya Hossain wrote "Sultana's Dream," proto-sci-fi elements were introduced to Bengali literature by Chandravati's version of this epic that features a flying palace owned by Ravana.
  Part 3 (ans: Amitav Ghosh):
    This contemporary Bengali author won the Arthur C. Clarke prize for his novel about a cult that seeks to use malarial parasites to transmit their consciousnesses to others' bodies, The Calcutta Chromosome.

[B8] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Taal is one deeply musically-oriented movie from this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of India [or Bharat ganrajya]):
    Identify this country whose powerful film industry is popularly known as "Bollywood." Ashwariya Rai is a famous actress from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    This Indian director of Charulata may be best-known for Pather Panchali,Aparajito, and Apur Sansar, which comprise his Apu Trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Devdas):
    This oft-remade Indian film starred Dilip Kumar in 1955 and Shahrukh Khan and Ashwariya Rai in 2002, the latter of which ends with a devastating scene in which Paro collapses at her mansion's gate while her alcoholic beloved dies at the other side.

[B9] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Lewis Carroll inspired an author from this movement to collect nonsense verses in works like Abol tabol and Pagla Dashu. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bengali Renaissance [prompt on Indian Renaissance]):
    Name this 19th and early 20th century literary movement, spearheaded by men like Michael Madhusudhan Dutt and Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay, who coined the national song "Vande Mataram."
  Part 2 (ans: Ray family [i.e., Satyajit Ray]):
    Sukumar was the patriarch of this family involved in the Bengal Renaissance. His son wrote some popular stories about the detective Feluda and Professor Shonku, and created works like The Chess Players and Distant Thunder.
  Part 3 (ans: Rabindranath Tagore):
    This author was heavily involved in the Bengal Renaissance. He portrayed the Swadeshi movement in The Home and the World, and wrote the poetry collection Gitanjali.
