=== STOCK CLUES: Wilkie Collins ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Dickens [prompt on Wilkie Collins until mentioned with "who worked on Frozen Deep with what other author as editor?"]
  - The Inuit statesman Tagak Curley received an apology from this author's great-grandson for "150 years" of pain caused by a play he edited. [PWR]
  - In Culture and Imperialism, Edward Said used the belief of a character created by this author that "the earth was made for them to trade in, and the sun and moon was made to give them light" to illustrate the "overweening self-importance" created by imperial markets.
  - This author heavily edited the play The (*) Frozen Deep for Wilkie Collins, specifically to shift blame for the Franklin Expedition to the Inuit.
  - This author's distaste for George Catlin caused this author to write a racist essay sarcastically titled "The Noble Savage." The fictional Borrioboola-Gha people benefit from the "telescopic philanthropy" of a character created by this author.
  - This (*) author's observations on slavery in the travelogue American Notes provided materials for a novel by this creator of Ms.
  - Jellyby whose title character is apprenticed to Seth Pecksniff.
  - For 10 points, name this author, who often centrally featured colonial trading firms in novels like Dombey and Son. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Collins [accept William Collins or William Wilkie Collins]
  - Because of a laudanum addiction, an author with this surname believed that he was always accompanied by a doppelgаnger whom he called a "ghost" version of himself.
  - A character with this surname draws gasps when he willingly chooses to read Fordyce's Sermons after teatime.
  - That character with this surname absurdly lists his reasons for proposing to his cousin, who promptly tells him that she is the "last woman in the world" who could make him happy.
  - This is the surname of an obsequious clergyman who allies with Lady Catherine de Bourgh in Pride and Prejudice.
  - An author with this surname wrote a detective novel in which Godfrey Ablewhite is revealed to be the one who stole the title diamond from Rachel Verinder.
  - For 10 points, identify this surname of the author of The Moonstone, Wilkie. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: William Wilkie Collins
  - A character created by this author frequently whistles "The Last Rose of Summer" to himself and is assisted by a boy with bulging eyes nicknamed "Gooseberry." An actress in a novel by this author eventually marries Captain Kirke after wooing Frank Clare and discovering that her will was invalidated when her father died in a train crash. [PWR]
  - Another character in a novel by him catches typhus while lying on a roof in the rain to overhear the plot of (*) Percival, who intends to pay his debt using money gained from a marriage to her half-sister Laura Fairlie. [PWR]
  - This author of No Name wrote a novel in which Sergeant Cuff attempts to find the title object, which is stolen from Rachel Verinder by Godfrey Ablewhite.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Woman in White and The Moonstone. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wilkie Collins
  - One of this author's characters whistles "The Last Rose of Summer" and wants to grow roses when he retires.
  - In another of this author's novels, the obese Count Fosco betrays and is murdered by an Italian group called the "Brotherhood." He wrote a work in which art teacher Walter Hartright discovers Laura Fairlie resembles an asylum escapee named Anne, while in another work Godfrey Ablewhite is murdered after pocketing the title object.
  - This author of Armadale collaborated with his friend Charles Dickens in writing the story "A House to Let." In one of his novels, the title object is a stolen diamond eventually returned to India.
  - For 10 points, name this British author, who pioneered detective fiction in The Woman in White and The Moonstone. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This devotee of mesmerism claimed "I have the perfect conviction that I could magnetize a frying pan,"and hypnotized Madame Augusta de la Rue while possibly having an affair with her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens]):
    Name this author of The Mystery of Edwin Drood, who side-hustled as a mesmeric healer and the magician "The Unparalleled Necromancer Rhia Rhama Rhoos."
  Part 2 (ans: The Frozen Deep ):
    Dickens met his mistress Nelly Ternan while writing and acting in this play, in which Clara Burnham sees distant events while under a mesmeric trance. This play was based on the failure of the Arctic Franklin expedition.
  Part 3 (ans: Wilkie Collins [or William Collins] (The novel is The Moonstone.)):
    Dickens wrote The Frozen Deep with this author. In one novel by this author, Franklin Blake recreates the events on a night when he was unknowingly given laudanum to reconstruct a crime.

[B2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In order to become a schoolteacher, a man in this novel reads so much that he nearly becomes blind. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Return of the Native):
    Name this novel in which Clym Yeobright's return to Egdon Heath leads to his unhappy marriage to Eustacia Vye, who still has feelings for her old boyfriend Damon.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    The Return of the Native is set in the fictional Wessex county created by this author of The Mayor of Casterbridge.
  Part 3 (ans: diamond [prompt on gem or jewelry; prompt on the moonstone from The Moonstone by asking, "What specific kind of object is it?"] (The other novel is The Moonstone by Wilkie Collins.)):
    In The Return of the Native, Clym returns to Egdon Heath from Paris since he hated his job of selling these objects. In a different novel, a man who unknowingly drank laudanum takes one of these objects during a birthday party.

[B3] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A story written in this manner ends with Sophonisba deciding to turn the title place into a hospital for sick children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: collaborative fiction [or word forms of collaboration; accept equivalents of being written by a group of or multiple authors; accept chain or mosaic writing] (The Inheritors is by Joseph Conrad and Ford Madox Ford.)):
    Identify this manner in which the 1858 story "A House to Let" was produced. This general method also produced a 1901 novel in which the Fourth Dimensionists plot to take over Earth, titled The Inheritors.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Dickens):
    This author collaborated with Adelaide Procter and Elizabeth Gaskell on "A House to Let" and published it in his magazine Household Words. He also wrote A Tale of Two Cities and Oliver Twist.
  Part 3 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    This man was the fourth author of "A House to Let." He published many of his novels, including an early detective novel about Rachel Verinder's stolen diamond, in Charles Dickens's literary magazines.

[B4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Rosanna Spearman's suicide note accuses Franklin Blake of this novel's central crime, although a reenactment confirms that he was innocent and acting under the influence of opium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Moonstone (by Wilkie Collins)):
    Name this novel in which Sergeant Cuff determines that Godfrey Ablewhite stole the title precious object.
  Part 2 (ans: Sherlock Holmes [or Sherlock Holmes]):
    In "The Adventure of the Mazarin Stone," this detective swaps places with his wax effigy to recover the title diamond from the thief Count Sylvius. Unusually, that story is not narrated by this man's companion, Dr. Watson.
  Part 3 (ans: Lord Peter Wimsey [or Lord Peter Wimsey] (created by Dorothy Sayers)):
    This man recovers a stolen emerald necklace hidden between a church's ornately-carved cherubim ("CHAIR-oo-bim") in the novel The Nine Tailors. This employer of Mervyn Bunter stars in the novels Whose Body? and Gaudy Night.

[B5] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer these questions on Charles Dickens' social circle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lawrence Boythorn [either underlined part acceptable]):
    Walter Savage Landor, a friend of Dickens, was caricatured by this Bleak House character. An old friend of John Jarndyce, this character spends much of the novel warring with Sir Leicester Dedlock over a garden path.
  Part 2 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    Dickens enjoyed a close friendship with this author; they were travelling buddies, and likely solicited sex workers together. Dickens serialised this author's novel, The Woman in White, in his literary magazine All the Year Round.
  Part 3 (ans: William Makepeace Thackeray):
    Edgar Allan Poe fell out with Dickens after this other author, also a friend of Dickens, wrote an article denouncing American poetry. This author's most famous novel is framed as a puppet show, and the main character works as a governess to Sir Pitt Crawley before marrying his son Rawdon.

[B6] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's antagonist boasts about making the prostitute Anna Wetherell miscarry after his horse gets startled and kicks her in the stomach. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Luminaries):
    A "Character Chart" assigns a sign of the zodiac to each of twelve characters at the start of what longest-ever Booker-winning novel, set during a gold rush in the town of Hokitika?
  Part 2 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    Eleanor Catton's The Luminaries is a contemporary example of the "sensation novel," a melodramatic genre that reached its peak with this Victorian author's book The Woman in White.
  Part 3 (ans: opium [or poppy tears; or laudanum]):
    In perhaps the most the Victorian touch of all in The Luminaries, Anna develops an addiction to this drug. Wilkie Collins was himself addicted to this narcotic, which inspired Coleridge to write "Kubla Khan."

[B7] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After Terry Lennox's purported suicide, this character is hired by Howard Spencer to track down the alcoholic writer Roger Wade in The Long Goodbye.For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Marlowe):
    Name this Los Angeles-based private eye, who is hired by General Sternwood to protect his daughter Carmen, in his most famous appearance.
  Part 2 (ans: (William) Wilkie Collins):
    This Victorian author created the gardening-obsessed detective Sergeant Cuff in his early mystery novel The Moonstone.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Belgium):
    Another famous literary detective is Jules Maigret, who was created by Georges Simenon, an author from this country. A non-Danish author from this country wrote about Amelie's time working for the Yumimoto company in Fear and Trembling.

[B8] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's title object was initially stolen during the Siege of Seringapatam. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Moonstone):
    Identify this early detective novel that concludes with Rachel Verinder's marriage to her cousin Franklin, and the return of the title object to the forehead of an Indian statue.
  Part 2 (ans: William Wilkie Collins):
    The Moonstone was written by this English novelist, who also penned the "sensation novel" The Woman in White.
  Part 3 (ans: jugglers [prompt on less specific answers like circus performers]):
    In The Moonstone, a trio of ominous Brahmins sent to recover the gem disguise themselves as members of this profession.

[B9] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the most popular novel in this genre, a woman catches a cold after climbing to a roof in the pouring rain to overhear a plan to kill Laura Fairlie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sensation novels):
    Identify this genre of emotion-rousing crime fiction that became a huge fad in Victorian literature after the 1860 publication of The Woman in White.
  Part 2 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    Armadale and The Woman in White are sensation novels by this Victorian author, who wrote a gripping novel about the theft of an Indian diamond, titled The Moonstone.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Audley's Secret):
    The missing wife of the gold prospector George Talboys had in fact faked her death and started a new life under the name "Lucy Graham" in this sensation novel by Mary Elizabeth Braddon.

[B10] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote about Walter Hartright finding a woman who has escaped from an asylum in one novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    Name this British author of The Woman in White. He also cowrote "A House to Let" with Charles Dickens and some female authors.
  Part 2 (ans: The Moonstone):
    This Collins work, considered to be the first detective novel, features several narrators such as the prim evangelist Drusilla Clack and ends with the title gem being returned to its temple in India.
  Part 3 (ans: Sergeant Cuff):
    This character is the first to realize that no one stole the moonstone. This geriatric policeman wins the friendship of the butler Betteredge and employs a boy with notably bulging eyes, Gooseberry.

[B11] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these Victorian authors of novels about fallen women, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    Ex-prostitute Mercy Merrick adopts the identity of the Franco-Prussian War casualty Grace Roseberry in The New Mag- 7 dalen, an out-of-print novel by this author who's better known for The Woman in White.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    An orphan sweatshop girl is swept into an afair with the rakish aristocrat Henry Bellingham in this author's depressing book Ruth, and the title character's sister Esther becomes a streetwalker in her novel Mary Barton.
  Part 3 (ans: George Moore [the book is Esther Waters]):
    This author wrote a novel in which the kitchen-maid Esther is impregnated by the footman William Latch, but resolves to raise the child despite facing hardships such as her family moving to Australia.

[B12] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this novel is Anne Catherick, a mentally ill woman who dies of a heart condition, after which Laura Fairlie takes her place in the asylum. For 10 points each:.
  Part 1 (ans: The Woman in White):
    Name this novel which ends with the marriage of Laura, who escapes the asylum with the help of Marian, and the art teacher Walter Hartwright, who blackmails Count Fosco into restoring Laura's identity.
  Part 2 (ans: (William) Wilkie Collins):
    The Woman in White was written by this British author, who collaborated with Charles Dickens on No Thoroughfare. He also wrote of Rachel Verinder's inheritance of the title object in The Moonstone.
  Part 3 (ans: No Name):
    Following The Woman in White, Collins published this novel, in which Magdalen and Norah Vanstone lose their inheritance to their older brother Michael because their parents were married for only a few months.

[B13] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Examples of this literary genre include Mrs. Henry Wood's novel East Lynne and Mary Elizabeth Braddon's novel Lady Audley's Secret. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sensation novels [or sensational fiction]):
    Name this popular genre of novels in Victorian England, which focused on the extreme mental states caused by crimes and illicit passions.
  Part 2 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    This author created a mania for sensation novels by writing The Woman in White and The Moonstone.
  Part 3 (ans: Sheridan Le Fanu):
    This author was known as the Irish Wilkie Collins, although he denied that he was a sensation novelist in the "preliminary word" to his novel Uncle Silas. His collection In a Glass Darkly includes his novella about lesbian vampires, Carmilla.
