=== STOCK CLUES: Nadine Gordimer ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 76 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 20 found, 60 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: farms [or coffee plantations; accept The Story of an African Farm; prompt on estates] (The third sentence is from The Conservationist by Nadine Gordimer.)
  - A character who leaves one of these places to look for the woman he loves finds her dying in a hotel, so he crossdresses and gets hired as her nurse. [PWR]
  - In a feminist novel titled for one of these places, Gregory Rose agrees to submit to Lyndall so she will marry him. [PWR]
  - A pig-iron businessman is appalled when the body of a mysterious man is dumped in one of these places before being unearthed by a (*) flood. [PWR]
  - An Olive Schreiner novel is titled for one of these places in Africa.
  - The owner of one of these places has an affair with Denys Finch-Hatton, a big-game hunter who dies in a plane crash.
  - The failure of one of these places caused the author of "Babette's Feast" to return to Denmark.
  - For 10 points, name this kind of place where Karen Blixen set Out of Africa. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - In a novel by this author, the author of a report on education contacts the Bashi former PIP leader Edward Shinza. [PWR]
  - This author described the Gala speaker Mweta  inviting Evelyn James Bray back to his country after gaining independence in A Guest of Honour. [PWR]
  - The gay teenager Terry hitchhikes to avoid conscription in a novel by this author whose protagonist harasses a Portuguese woman on a flight. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author abandons Conrad to enter a relationship with (*) Bernard Chabalier. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, an unknown Black man is buried on the farm that Mehring just bought.
  - This author depicted the life of Rosa, whose father Lionel was a communist and anti-apartheid activist.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Conservationist and Burger's Daughter. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - In a story by this author, a girl named for Charlotte Corday from the play Marat/Sade learns about the affair of her mother, the deceased actress Laila de Morne.
  - In another story by this author, the narrator gifts a suit to the father of a farmhand who asks for a refund of 20 pounds after the wrong body is exhumed from a grave.
  - This author of "A Beneficiary" and "Six Feet of the Country" wrote a novel in which a man is scolded after driving into town to buy supplies and batteries for a radio.
  - Daniel steals a shotgun which was earlier used to shoot two warthogs in that novel by this author, which ends as Maureen runs towards a helicopter.
  - For 10 points, name this author who created the Smales family in her anti-Apartheid novel July's People. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - In a short story by this author, Mrs. [PWR]
  - Bamjee is arrested for distributing leaflets and wears the title "Chip of Glass Ruby." In a novel by this author, the protagonist leverages her connection to Brandt Vermeulen to get a passport to visit France, where she meets Katya. [PWR]
  - One of this author's characters imagines a conversation with Jacobus, the foreman who had found a corpse on his (*) farm.
  - In another novel by this author, a village boy stares into the "blue-steel tunnels" of an object that is later suspected to be stolen by Daniel.
  - In that novel, the disappearance of a bakkie prompts Maureen to confront a former servant.
  - For 10 points, name this writer who examined the conditions of apartheid in their novels The Conservationist, Burger's Daughter, and July's People. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - In a story by this author, a couple places a plaque reading "YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED" on their front gate in a series of escalating security measures, which culminate in their son dying when he climbs into razor wire. [PWR]
  - The protagonist considers Pushkin's frizzy hair and a photo of his own prospector great-grandfather in a story by this author in which Frederick Morris fails in his search for dark-skinned ancestors, after hearing a comment on the radio about a (*) composer's African heritage.
  - This author of the stories "Once Upon a Time" and "Beethoven Was One-Sixteenth Black" wrote a novel in which Bam teaches Daniel how to use a gun, while a servant drives a bakkie that used to belong to the Smales family, who flee from Johannesburg.
  - For 10 points, name this South African author of July's People. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: South Africa [or Republic of South Africa or RSA] (The unnamed playwrights are, in order, Gcina Mhlophe, Nadine Gordimer, and Athol Fugard.)
  - One playwright from this country followed seven different points of view in the 1984 play Black Dog, which starred another playwright from this country who wrote Have You Seen Zandile? [PWR]
  - An old man invited to a campfire in one play from this country is refused wine by one character but told stories by another until he mysteriously dies. [PWR]
  - That play from this country describes the wandering after the home of (*) Boesman and Lena was bulldozed. [PWR]
  - In another play from this country, a character's job as a watchkeeper in a park leaves him with sore feet that his companion prepares hot water baths to soothe.
  - That play from this country describes the title bond between Morris and Zachariah who live in a shack in the "colored" section of town. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this country for which Barney Simon and other playwrights wrote plays criticizing policies like apartheid. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: cockroaches [accept bugs or insects or vermin; accept dung beetles] (The lead-in refers to "Gregor" by Nadine Gordimer.)
  - In a story titled for one of these animals from the collection Beethoven was One-Sixteenth Black, the narrator watches one of them die while working at her typewriter. [PWR]
  - A crablike animal who is boiled and then escapes a house without his legs was created as a reference to one of these animals in the story "Father's Last Escape" by Bruno Schulz. [PWR]
  - Another book refers to one of these animals as "ungeziefer," or "unfit for sacrifice." A couple discusses their (*) "young and voluptuous" daughter on a tram ride after the death of one of these animals, who prizes a picture of a woman in furs. [PWR]
  - Upon awakening from "uneasy dreams," one of these animals is supplied with food by his sister Grete.
  - For 10 points, Gregor Samsa transforms into what kind of animal in Franz Kafka's The Metamorphosis? [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - This author asserted that "caches of old papers are like graves; you shouldn't open them" to open her story "A Beneficiary." In another story by this author, Rad plants explosives in his lover Vera's luggage, resulting in an explosion on a plane.
  - A farm boy is given a stranger's corpse instead of his brother's corpse in a story by this author of "Some Are Born to Sweet Delight." This author of "Six Feet of the Country" wrote the story collection Beethoven Was One-Sixteenth Black.
  - The protagonist of a novel by this author sees a Life magazine photograph depicting the servant girl Lydia carrying books.
  - A yellow truck known as a "bakkie" appears in that novel by this author that ends with Bam's wife Maureen running towards a helicopter.
  - For 10 points, name this author of July's People. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - In one story by this author, a pregnant woman dies when her fiance sneaks a bomb into her luggage, through a last-minute gift, killing everyone on board her flight.
  - A novel by this author begins with a man watching children gather around a clutch of "pale freckled eggs" and includes a scene where the protagonist listens to the howling of a beaten dog on Christmas Day.
  - This author of "Some Are Born to Sweet Delight" created a character who muses on a photo of a white schoolgirl and black woman that appears in a Life coffee-table book.
  - That novel by this author ends with Maureen running towards a helicopter and is about the title servant helping the Smales family escape a black revolution.
  - For 10 points, name this South African author of The Conservationist and July's People. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - One of this author's novels chronicles the disintegrating marriage of Vera Stark, who takes a government position and forces her husband Bennet to join a luggage company.
  - In one novel by this author, Julie builds a relationship with the deported auto mechanic Abdu after visiting his home country and becoming enamored with his family. [PWR]
  - One of this author's characters carries on an affair with the liberal Antonia Mancebo and is constantly disturbed by the image of a body found on his (*) farm.
  - This creator of the industrialist Mehring wrote the short story collection Beethoven Was One-Sixteenth Black.
  - In another novel by this author, Maureen abandons her family to flee in a helicopter after Daniel, a friend of the title servant, steals Bamford Smales' gun to join the black revolutionaries.
  - For 10 points, name this South African author of The Conservationist and July's People. [GIVE]

[T11] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - This author wrote a story in which a chicken breeder on a farm vainly tries to recover the 25 pounds he spent exhuming a corpse that turned out not to be his brother's body.
  - In another story, a woman yells at her new husband for making a vendor run afer their train and ofer half price for a beautifully-carved lion with real fur.
  - This writer interspersed quotes from the Reverend Henry Callaway between chapters of a novel that opens as a circle of children disobey a landowner by playing with eleven freckled guinea-fowl eggs.
  - This author of "Six Feet of the Country" wrote a novel in which hypocritical lefies at the L.A.
  - Cafe mock Julie Summers for dating an illegal immigrant with an economics degree, an Arab mechanic named Abdu.
  - This author wrote a novel in which the homosexual Terry gives clothes to the workers on his father's 400-acre farm where Jacobus buries the corpse of an unknown black man that comes to haunt the title white businessman, Mehring.
  - For 10 points, name this South-African author of The Pickup who wrote The Conservationist and July's People. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - In this author's most recent novel, a character is recruited by the Movement.
  - That character, Jabulile, enters into a controversial interracial marriage with Steve, who makes explosives. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, Baasie criticizes the legacy of the title character's father Lionel, prompting Rosa to return from France. [PWR]
  - This author of No Time Like the Present wrote a novel in which an unidentified (*) black man's body is buried but brought back to the surface after a flood. [PWR]
  - In this author's most famous novel, Bam kills two warthogs with a shotgun, and Maureen chases after a helicopter.
  - For 10 points, name this South African author of Burger's Daughter, The Conservationist, and July's People. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nadine Gordimer
  - One disagreeable character created by this author quotes The Tempest to demand that a woman be "patience on a monument" in exchange for a passport.
  - In that novel, this author described the tutelage of a woman born Colette Swan, nicknamed Katya.
  - In another novel by this author, a photographer publishes a picture of a servant carrying a set of school books on her head in Life.
  - One of her novels contains large excerpts from Bram Fischer's defense speech in order to thwart the censors that banned that novel.
  - She wrote about a civil war between the Blacks and Whites in her most famous novel, which ends with the title character running toward a helicopter.
  - This author wrote about the Communist Lionel, the father of Rosa, in Burger's Daughter.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about a black servant of the Smales family in July's People, the first Nobel Laureate from South Africa. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A bird inflicting people with sokugo, or wandering sickness, plagues the Fulani chief Mai Sunsaye in a novel by Cyprian Ekwensi titled for this substance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: grass [accept The Grass is Singing; accept Burning Grass]):
    Name this substance. Mary Turner strikes the tobacco farm worker Moses across the face with a sambok, an event ultimately leading to her murder, in a Doris Lessing novel titled for this substance.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    The overseer Jacobus discovers a dead body on a farm owned by the white businessman Mehring in The Conservationist, a novel by this author of July's People.
  Part 3 (ans: Olive Schreiner(The novel is The Story of an African Farm.)):
    A religious interlude that opens by recounting a boy praying to God in a farm's fuel-house, titled "Times and Seasons," marks Waldo, Em, and Lyndall's transition to adulthood in an autobiographical novel by this South African author.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The 3,000-stanza epic Utenzi wa Vita vya Uhuru, which chronicles World War II in the style of this country's poetry, is the magnum opus of Shaaban bin Robert, this country's national poet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tanzania [or United Republic of Tanzania or Jamhuri ya Muungano wa Tanzania] (The novel is Paradise.)):
    Name this modern-day country, where Yusuf runs after a column of conscripted men at the start of World War I after returning with Uncle Aziz's caravan at the end of one novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer ):
    This South African author discussed the history of Tanzania in an essay for The Atlantic. This author also wrote Burger's Daughter and July's People.
  Part 3 (ans: Abdulrazak Gurnah ):
    Ilyas searches for his uncle in Germany after World War II at the end of this author's novel Afterlives. This Tanzanian-born author of Paradise won the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature.

[B3] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A literary group that wrote in this language called the "Sixtiers" included authors like Etienne Leroux, who wrote Seven Days at the Silbersteins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Afrikaans):
    Name this language used to write A Chain of Voices and Philida. Ben du Toit investigates the murders of Jonathan and Gordon by the Special Branch in a novel in this language by Andre Brink titled A Dry White Season.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Martin's farm in Brink's Rumours of Rain sometimes draws comparisons to Mehring's farm, at which Jacobus discovers a dead body, in this South African author's The Conservationist. She also wrote July's People.
  Part 3 (ans: Breyten Breytenbach):
    This other member of the "Sixtiers" and frequent collaborator of Ingrid Jonker described his time in prison in The True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist.

[B4] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While in prison, this author meditated on his poetry in the poem "Ballade of Unfaithful Lovers." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Breyten Breytenbach):
    Name this poet who described his imprisonment in The True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist. Along with Ingrid Jonker, this author was involved in a dissident literary movement whose name means "The Sixtiers."
  Part 2 (ans: farms [accept any specific type of farm; accept farmland or agricultural land or plantations]):
    Another member of the Sestigers, Andre Brink, depicted the sale of one of these locations in the novel Rumours of Rain. In another novel, Jacobus finds a dead body at one of these locations owned by Mehring.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    This author depicted racial tensions on Mehring's farm in The Conservationist. This South African author also imagined the end of apartheid in her novel July's People.

[B5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a novel, a woman feels a stream of bubbles against her face after she opens the mouth of the corpse of this character's tongueless servant while she is underwater. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robinson Crusoe [or Robinson Crusoe] (The novel is Foe.)):
    Name this character whom Susan Barton meets along with his servant Friday in a J. M. Coetzee novel titled for his creator, Daniel Defoe.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer (The novel is The Conservationist.)):
    Mrs. Cunningham is compared to the title feature in this author's story "Friday's Footprint." In both this author's short story "Six Feet of the Country" and her novel about Mehring, a corpse turns up on the narrator's farm.
  Part 3 (ans: Bessie Head [or Bessie Amelia Emery Head] (The novel is When Rain Clouds Gather.)):
    In this author's "The Wind and a Boy," Friedman's grandmother makes up a story for him in which Crusoe hunts an elephant. This author wrote a novel in which Makhaya Maseko settles down in a village in Botswana.

[B6] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem in this language describes "the child who became a giant" and "travels through the whole word without a pass." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Afrikaans):
    Name this language of Ingrid Jonker's "The child is not dead" and Breyten Breytenbach's The True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist. Tweede Asem, the Dertigers, and the Sestigers were movements in this language.
  Part 2 (ans: A Dry White Season [or 'n Droe wit seisoen]):
    A time period described in Mongane Wally Serote's "For Don M - Banned" titles this novel by Sestiger Andre Brink, in which Captain Stolz impedes Ben du Toit and Melanie Bruwer's investigation of Gordon Ngubene's murder.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Afrikaner lawyer Bram Fischer inspired this author to write about a Communist activist who raises Baasie alongside his white daughter Rosa, but dies in prison, in Burger's Daughter.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Harvard University Press now publishes the Loeb Classical Library that was first published by this company. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heinemann [or William Heinemann Ltd.]):
    Identify this British publisher whose educational wing printed Leon Comber's Writing in Asia Series and James Currey's Caribbean Writers Series. Both were modeled on this publisher's African Writers Series.
  Part 2 (ans: Abdulrazak Gurnah):
    In 1994, this author was appointed as editorial advisor to the Heinemann African Writers Series. This Zanzibar-born author of By the Sea and Paradise won the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    The series published this author's short story collection Some Monday for Sure in 1976. This South African author is better known for novels such as The Conservationist and July's People.

[B8] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's early short stories were collected in Six Feet of the Country, whose title story involves the discovery of a corpse on a farm, like her later novel The Conservationist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Name this author who defended her fiction in What Happened to Burger's Daughter or How South African Censorship Works.
  Part 2 (ans: "Beethoven Was One-Sixteenth Black"):
    In this Gordimer story, white professor Frederick Morris hears the title claim on classical music radio and wonders about his own somewhat dark-skinned great-grandfather. It titles a 2007 collection that includes "A Beneficiary".
  Part 3 (ans: "Something Out There"):
    The menacing title of this Gordimer novella alludes both to a baboon stalking the white suburbs of Johannesburg and to a multiracial four-person terrorist cell. It titles a 1984 collection.

[B9] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, the farm worker Petrus pays the morgue for the body of his illegal immigrant brother, only to be given the wrong corpse to bury. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Name this author of the story "Six Feet of the Country." A similar situation arises in a novel by this author which incorporates Zulu myth to describe how Jacobus finds the body of a Black man on Mehring's farm.
  Part 2 (ans: apartheid):
    Gordimer's works, like the aforementioned novel The Conservationist, often oppose this policy, according to which White and Black people were segregated in her native South Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludwig van Beethoven [accept Beethoven was One-Sixteenth Black]):
    A white apartheid activist tries to prove his own Black heritage in a Gordimer story titled for how "[this historical figure] was One-Sixteenth Black," which titles a 2008 collection by her.

[B10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Prem Bodasingh refuses to give up her seat on the bus in one scene in this novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ah, But Your Land is Beautiful):
    Name this fictional reworking of Alan Paton's years as an activist, including real characters such as Helen Joseph. The title of this novel refers to the reaction of foreign visitors observing South African politics.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Julie Summers' car breaks down in this other author's novel The Pickup. This writer's other novels include The Conservationist.
  Part 3 (ans: helicopters):
    Another novel by Gordimer ends with Maureen Smales running towards an unmarked one of these vehicles that 'may contain saviors or murderers'. This vehicle arrives at the village where the liberal white Smales family has fled from race war in Johannesburg.

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character who is reluctant to finish this book remembers Lydia's baking after reading this book's accounts of 1628 bread riots. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Betrothed [or I Promessi Sposi]):
    Name this novel in which Don Rodrigo orchestrates a plot to kidnap Lucia and take her to the castle of the Unnamed. Lucia and Renzo's marriage ends this novel by Alessandro Manzoni.
  Part 2 (ans: July's People):
    In this novel, Maureen Smales worries about finishing The Betrothed and being left with nothing to read. Maureen chases a helicopter in this novel after fleeing from home in a yellow bakkie.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    July's People is a novel by this South African author of Burger's Daughter and The Conservationist.

[B12] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one short story by this author, Vera dates a foreign man named Rad who eventually plants explosives in her luggage in order to blow up a plane. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Name this author whose first work was the short story collection Face To Face. In addition to short stories including "Some are Born to Sweet Delight", this author wrote a short novel in which Maureen Smales refuses to finish reading a copy of Manzoni's The Betrothed.
  Part 2 (ans: "Oral History"):
    In this Gordimer short story from the collection A Soldier's Embrace, the village of Dilolo is burned after its chief reveals that it is harboring guerrillas during the Rhodesian Bush War.
  Part 3 (ans: apartheid):
    In Gordimer's short story "The Life of the Imagination", the narrator is anxious that black men will kill her due to anger over this set of policies, which Gordimer agitated against as part of the African National Congress.

[B13] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Binyavanga Wainaina's satirical essay "How to Write About Africa" informs budding writers that, "after celebrity activists and aid workers," people with this profession are "Africa's most important people." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: conservationists [or The Conservationist] (The novel is by Nadine Gordimer.)):
    Identify this profession of people who, according to Wainana, work to preserve "Africa's rich heritage." A novel titled for a member of this profession is set on a 400-acre farm administered by the foreman Jacobus.
  Part 2 (ans: safaris [prompt on big-game hunting]):
    Wainaina advises writers to always use either the word "Africa,""Darkness," or this one in the title of a book. The narrator of Hemingway's "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" dies of gangrene during one of these hunting trips.
  Part 3 (ans: Tropicana Club):
    Wainaina concludes his essay by suggesting that books about Africa should contain a nightclub with this name where "prostitutes and guerillas" hang out. Cyprian Ekwensi's Jagua Nana works at one such nightclub in Lagos.

[B14] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay notes that using words such as "shadow," "drum," "sun," or "bygone" in subtitles is helpful in the title activity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "How to Write About Africa"):
    Name this satirical essay by Binyavanga Wainaina that recommends an "I-expected-so-much" tone and a closing quote about "rainbows or renaissances" by Nelson Mandela to those doing the title action.
  Part 2 (ans: Granta):
    "How to Write About Africa" was originally written as a letter of complaint to this British literary magazine, where it was later published. This magazine was re-launched under the editorship of Bill Buford in 1979 after originally being founded by Cambridge students in the nineteenth century.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    This author's short story "Beethoven Was One-Sixteenth Black" appeared alongside "How to Write About Africa" in a 2005 issue of Granta. That same year, this author published a novel about the environmental activist Paul Bannerman titled Get a Life.

[B15] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book was initially banned in South Africa, but was unbanned three months later. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Burger's Daughter):
    Name this novel in which Rosa deals with the legacy of her father, Lionel, and with the anti-white militant activism of her childhood friend Baasie.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Burger's Daughter was written by this female South African of The Conservationist and July's People.
  Part 3 (ans: Bram Fischer [or Abram Louis Fischer]):
    The Burger family was based loosely on the family of this South African anti-apartheid activist, who led the defense at the Rivonia Trial. Gordimer also wrote a 1961 essay entitled "Why Did [this man] Choose To Go to Jail?".

[B16] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel concerns the story of the adult orphan Rosa, whose anti-apartheid parents were members of the Communist party. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Burger's Daughter):
    Name this novel in which the title character leaves South Africa for the south of France after being unable to prevent a black man from violently beating a donkey in Soweto.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Burger's Daughter is a novel by this South African author of July's People and The Conservationist.
  Part 3 (ans: Zwelinzima Vulindlela (accept either, also accept Baasie)):
    This character is Rosa's childhood friend who was taken in by the Burgers after his father died. When Rosa meets this character again many years later he is dismissive of her for her father's sacrifices which were no greater than those made in the same fight by black people.

[B17] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel written in this language, the narrator is imprisoned for following "Okhela" and is asked to dedicate a volume of poetry to a policeman he calls "Mr. Interrogator." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Afrikaans):
    Name this language of the Sixty-ers, in which the novels True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist and A Dry White Season were written.
  Part 2 (ans: Lionel Burger [prompt on "Burger"]):
    Breyten Breytenbach and Andre Brink both speak Afrikaans, as does this fictional member of the South African Communist Party and anti-apartheid activist who fathered Rosa and took in Baasie.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Lionel appears in Burger's Daughter, a novel by this Nobel Prize-winning author of July's People.

[B18] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: South African literature, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Olive Schreiner):
    This woman described the Hunter's Allegory and created the awesomely-named villain Bonaparte Blenkins in a novel published in 1883, The Story of an African Farm.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Rosa struggles with the legacy of her Communist father in this woman's novel Burger's Daughter.
  Part 3 (ans: Mhudi):
    Olive Schreiner and Nadine Gordimer were both white. The first English novel written by a black South African was this "Epic of South African Life" by the inimitable Sol Plaatje.

[B19] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about South African short stories, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: "Mafeking Road" [pronounced Mah-fe-king]):
    This title story of a collection tells of a mission to kill a man called Baden-Powell. On the way, soldiers lose faith in their commander after he has to ask black men for directions. Stephanus Van Barnevelt explains that he would risk court-martial and refuse to return to the title location of this short story, unless it also meant surrendering to the English.
  Part 2 (ans: Herman Charles Bosman):
    "Mafeking Road" is by this author of Jacaranda in the Night who was put on death row for shooting and killing his stepbrother during an argument. He told the story of his time in prison in Cold Stone Jug.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    This contemporary South African Nobel Prize winner published the short story collection A Soldier's Embrace, but is better known for novels such as The Conservationist.

[B20] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character reveals that she drowned some kittens in a bucket of water. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Maureen Smales [accept either name]):
    Name this woman, who was once photographed as a child with her servant, Lydia, carrying her school case. She's first seen arriving with her husband at a native village and ends the novel by running towards a mysterious helicopter.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    Maureen Smales appears in July's People, a novel by this South African Nobel laureate.
  Part 3 (ans: A Sport of Nature):
    In this 1987 Gordimer novel, Kim Capran renames herself "Hillela" and marries a black member of the ANC, who ends up becoming the fictitious first black president of South Africa.
