=== STOCK CLUES: Rulfo ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 25 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 20 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: ghosts [or fantasmas; or dead people; or spirits; or specters; accept The House of the Spirits or La casa de los espiritus; accept My Father's Ghost Is Climbing in the Rain or El espiritu de mis padres sigue subiendo en la lluvia] (My Father's Ghost is Climbing in the Rain is by Patricio Pron. Pedro Paramo is by Juan Rulfo.)
  - In a novel titled for this type of character, a writer narrates his father's resistance during the Dirty War after finding articles about the janitor Alberto Jose Burdisso's murder.
  - At the end of a novel, a girl leaps "into the void" after some of these characters invite her to the Big Midnight Feast.
  - That novel titled for these characters is set on New Year's Eve at an apartment complex construction site and is by Cesar Aira .
  - These characters' murmurs fill a town at "the very mouth of hell" in a novel in which the hostess Eduviges Dyada , the cook Damiana Cisneros, and the deaf mule-driver Abundio Martinez are revealed to be this type of character.
  - Juan Preciado visits a town inhabited by these characters in Pedro Paramo.
  - For 10 points, Clara del Valle  can communicate with what beings in an Isabel Allende  novel partly titled for them? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Juan Rulfo
  - Gabriel Garcia Marquez has said that he felt blocked as a novelist until reading this man.
  - This man's novel The Golden Cockerel was published in 1980. twenty years after it was originally written.
  - One story by this author is about a father taking his (*) wounded adult son Ignacio to see a doctor. [PWR]
  - That story, Can't You Hear the Dogs Barking, was included along with Tell Them Not to Kill Me in this author's collection "The Plain in Flames".
  - This author's most famous novel is about Juan's promise to his dying mother and his journey to visit his father in the town of Colama.
  - That novel by this author was described by Gabriel Garcia Marquez as a life-changing discovery.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican author of Pedro Paramo. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: firing squads [accept mock firing squad; prompt on executions or mock executions] (The Juan Rulfo story is "Tell Them Not to Kill Me!")
  - Remarkably, four separate instances of these events happened to author Antonio di Benedetto during his imprisonment under the Videla regime. [PWR]
  - In one novel, a former teacher organizes one of these events with a scarecrow after making arbitrary decrees such as animals out after six becoming public property. [PWR]
  - One of these events occurs at the end of a story whose protagonist habitually hides in the hills after hacking a (*) landowner to death with a machete. [PWR]
  - A father addresses his son Justino  before one of these events in that story from The Burning Plain.
  - A character who is said to have survived "fourteen attempts on his life, seventy-three ambushes," and one of these events spends it thinking about the time he saw a diamond-like object at a tinkers' camp.
  - For 10 points, Colonel Aureliano Buendia remembers seeing ice with his father while facing death by what method? [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Juan Rulfo [or Juan Nepomuceno Carlos Perez Rulfo Vizcaino] 2
  - A collection by this author that was first translated into English by Georg D.
  - Schade includes a story in which the narrator and his sick brother's wife Natalia arrange the brother's death during a pilgrimage to a shrine at the title place.
  - The narrator of one of this author's short stories worries that Tacha will end up a whore like her two sisters after a cow is washed away by a flood.
  - Thirty-five years after a dispute over cattle pasturing caused the main character of one of this man's stories to kill Don Lupe Terreros, the arrival of a firing squad prompts that character to make the title plea to his son Justino.
  - This author of "Talpa", "Because We Are So Poor" and "Tell Them Not to Kill Me!" wrote a novel adored by Gabriel Garcia Marquez in which ghosts describe the title character's influence on the town of Comala to his son, Juan Preciado.
  - The collection The Burning Plain was written by, for 10 points, which Mexican author of Pedro Paramo? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this first name wrote a pioneering magical realist novel in which time stops as Hurtado and Julia escape from the bloodthirsty General Rosas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena [accept Elena Poniatowska; accept Elena Garro; accept Helene Poniatowska]):
    Give this first name, shared by the author of Memories of the Future and an author with the surname Poniatowska who wrote an oral history of a massacre of Mexican students in The Night of Tlatelolco.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    Elena Poniatowska wrote a biography of this Mexican author, who was also the husband of Elena Garro. This author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: dogs [accept perros] (The Garro story is "The day we were dogs," and the second story is Juan Rulfo's"Don't you hear the dogs barking?")):
    The protagonists of a short story by Elena Garro wake up one day transformed into these animals. A man carries his wounded son, the bandit Ignacio, in a short story titled for a sound made by these animals.

[B2] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this story, a foreman and an administrator are among a group of people executed in a mock bullfighting game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Burning Plain" [or "El Llano en llamas"; accept "The Plain in Flames" or "The Llano in Flames"] (by Juan Rulfo)):
    Name this story that ends as the main character meets his son after spending years in jail and working to derail a train. This is the title story of a collection that also includes "North Pass" and "They Have Given Us the Land."
  Part 2 (ans: dogs [or perros or perras or perritos; accept The Underdogs] (The Underdogs is the English title of Mariano Azuela's Los de abajo.)):
    "The Burning Plain" begins with the epigraph "Now they killed [one of these animals] / But [her offspring] remain," taken from a popular ballad. Demetrio Macias joins a revolution after government soldiers kill one of these animals in a novel whose 1929 English translation is titled for a word derived from the name of these animals.
  Part 3 (ans: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]):
    The Burning Plain and The Underdogs both depict the bleakness of the 1910s revolution in this country, which is the birthplace of both Juan Rulfo and Mariano Azuela.

[B3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story from Sergio Pitol's ("SAIR-hee-oh pee-TOLL's") collection Mephisto's Waltz, this animal gives the narrator a message of "twelve enlightening words." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: panthers [accept black panthers; prompt on big cats or felines or Cat People; prompt on black leopards] (The novel is Manuel Puig's Kiss of the Spider Woman.)):
    A novel by a different author opens with a man's description of a young woman from the Carpathians painting what type of animal at a zoo?
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; reject "Estados Unidos"] (Octavio Paz wrote "Sunstone.")):
    Pitol's story "The Panther" is included in Sun, Stone, and Shadows, an anthology of stories from this country. This country is home to the author of the poem "Sunstone."
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Rulfo [or Juan Nepomuceno Carlos Perez Rulfo Vizcaino; prompt on Vizcaino] (The novel is Pedro Paramo.)):
    Sun, Stone, and Shadows also includes this author's story "Tell Them Not to Kill Me!", which is part of his collection The Burning Plain. In a novel by this author, the title tyrant lets the town die of hunger out of spite while he is mourning Susana's death.

[B4] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Foreign-language answer acceptable. A book named after one of these places includes the story "It's Because We're So Poor," which is about a family who loses a cow in a flood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: plains [or llanos; or paramos] (Paramo is a Spanish word for a barren plain.)):
    Name this type of place that titles a collection containing the stories "They Gave Us the Land" and "Tell Them Not to Kill Me." A character whose last name is a word for this type of place loves Susana San Juan.
  Part 2 (ans: Juan Rulfo [or Juan Nepomuceno Carlos Perez Rulfo Vizcaino]):
    This author of The Burning Plain wrote about Juan Preciado's time in the ghost-inhabited town of Comala in his novel Pedro Paramo.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answers]):
    This Colombian author allegedly read a gifted copy of Pedro Paramo twice in one night and claimed that he could recite it forwards and backwards. Pedro Paramo influenced his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B5] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about magic realism writers:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Benedetti):
    This Uruguayan author wrote La tregua in the style of the personal diary of the protagonist, Martin Santome. His El cumpleanos de Juan Angel is a novel written in verse, while this author explored other forms of poetry in his Rincon de Haikus.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Gabo, or Gabito, prompt on Garcia]):
    This Colombian novelist wrote about a veteran of the Thousand Days' War who still hopes to receive the pension he was promised some fifteen years earlier for his service in the army of Aureliano Buendia, in No One Writes to the Colonel.
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Rulfo):
    This Mexican writer explored magic realism in his collection The Burning Plain and other Stories. In his novel Pedro Paramo, this author wrote about a man named Juan Preciado who travels to his recently deceased mother's hometown to find his father, only to come across a town populated by spectral figures.

[B6] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Mario Vargas Llosa's Nobel acceptance speech uses several examples of scenes in which literature can provoke the same shudder in people of all faiths. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Madame Bovary):
    The first example is when the title character of this novel swallows arsenic. It is the subject of Vargas Llosa's book The Perpetual Orgy.
  Part 2 (ans: Pedro Paramo [by Juan Rulfo]):
    The final example is when the reader of this novel realizes that all of the residents of Comala are in fact dead.

[B7] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about some geographically-related novels, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Pedro Paramo [by Juan Rulfo]):
    The title character's desire to lure Susana San Juan back to the town of Comala drives much of the backstory of this novel, whose first half is narrated by Juan Preciado.
  Part 2 (ans: Carlos Fuentes Macias):
    The yet-untranslated Federico en su Balcon was the last novel published by this author, who fictionalized the disappearance of Ambrose Bierce in The Old Gringo and wrote The Death of Artemio Cruz.
  Part 3 (ans: Mariano Azuela Gonzalez):
    This author made his name by writing novels of the Mexican Revolution, most prominently a tale of Luis Cervantes and Demetrio Macias called Los de Abajo, or The Underdogs.
