=== STOCK CLUES: Isabel Allende ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 70 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 30 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]
  - One of this author's characters works as a servant for a minister who sits in a plush chair with a hole in the seat and a bucket underneath to defecate into.
  - In that novel by this author, a girl who becomes homeless after the "Revolt of the Whores" ends up working at the Pearl of the Orient with Riad Halabi.
  - This author created a man who has his fiancee's dog made into a rug as a wedding present after it was stabbed to death at their engagement party.
  - The title character of one of this author's novels was conceived while her mother was helping a gardener recover from a snake bite.
  - This author wrote about a girl who goes mute after an assassination attempt on her father instead kills her green-haired sister, Rosa the Beautiful.
  - For 10 points, Eva Luna is by what Chilean author of The House of the Spirits? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona] (The first sentence refers to The Wind Knows My Name.)
  - A novel by this author intertwines the stories of the 7-year-old refugee Anita Diaz arriving in Arizona in 2019 and the 5-year-old Samuel Adler escaping Vienna in 1938.
  - This author created a character who works as a cook and pianist for a traveling caravan of sex workers and ultimately falls in love with an acupuncturist.
  - That character created by this author travels to California disguised as a gay man in search of her lover, who may be the bandit Joaquin Murieta.
  - This author of Daughter of Fortune wrote a novel in which Transito Soto helps a man to rescue his granddaughter, Alba, from a sadistic colonel.
  - In that novel by this author, Blanca and Pedro Tercero flee to Canada with the help of Esteban Trueba following a military coup.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende
  - A newscaster tries to rescue a girl stuck in a mudpit after an avalanche in this author's story "And of Clay Are We Created." In a story by this author, the Colonel becomes sick after being told a secret phrase by Belisa.
  - This author of "Two Words" wrote a novel whose narrator is encouraged to record her stories by the transgender telenovela actress Mimi.
  - A character created by this author is conceived by a gardener on his deathbed after being bitten by a snake.
  - That narrator created by this author leaves the house of Riad Halabi before eventually falling in love with Rolf Carle.
  - This author of Eva Luna wrote a novel that depicts the marriage between Clara del Valle and Esteban Trueba at the hacienda Las Tres Marias.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean author of The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Allende [accept Salvador Allende; accept Isabel Allende] (The first work is Mario Benedetti's "Allende"; the second is Raul Zurita's trilogy.)
  - A poem titled for this surname uses the refrain "to kill the man of peace" in the opening of each stanza. [PWR]
  - The death of that man with this surname began an era chronicled in a Dante-inspired poetry trilogy that begins with Purgatory, then Anteparadise. [PWR]
  - A novel by an author with this surname includes a mummy-collecting nobleman who has sex with native servants in his photography studio, and another character who goes into labor with twins after recovering the (*) severed head of her mother, Nivea , from a car wreck. [PWR]
  - The prostitute Transito Soto frees a character from Esteban Garcia's clutches in that novel by an author with this surname, in which Rosa the Beautiful and the clairvoyant Clara  are part of the Trueba family.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author of The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Allende (aye-EN-day) [accept Salvador Allende or Isabel Allende]
  - A blind man known by this surname travels to his cousin Hunter's estancia with his wife Maria Iribarne (ee-ree-BAR-nay) in Ernesto Sabato's novel The Tunnel.
  - Father Urrutia (oo-ROO-tee-ah) describes the overthrow of a man with this surname in a novel titled By Night In its author's country.
  - An author with this surname created a character who sells clay figurines in Canada and described how porphyria (por-FEER-ee-uh) complications led to a daughter's coma in the memoir Paula.
  - In a novel by an author with this surname, a woman flees Count Jean de Satigny (ZHAHN duh SAT-in-yee), who revealed her relationship with Pedro Tercero (tair-SAIR-oh).
  - In that novel by an author with this surname, poison kills the green-haired Rosa the Beautiful before Esteban can marry her, as predicted by the clairvoyant Clara del Valle (VAH-yay).
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author who created the Trueba (troo-AY-bah) family in The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende
  - In a novel by this author, a maid reveals that a dead body is in the Leroys' car while speaking to the man who hit her own car during a snowstorm. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, weekly flower deliveries to Lark House prompt suspicion that an old lady is meeting Ichimei Fukuda. [PWR]
  - In a third novel by this author, a man escapes Ferula's prophecy that he will "die like a dog," as he dies in the arms of a woman whom he helped rescue from military prison when she was pregnant. [PWR]
  - This author of (*) In the Midst of Winter and The Japanese Lover wrote a novel in which Blanca ignores her father and has an affair with Pedro Tercero Garcia.
  - In that novel by her, a clairvoyant child goes mute for nine years after Rosa dies, before later marrying Esteban Trueba.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Allende Llona]
  - A character in a novel by this author recounts how she grew up amidst "ancient furniture, books in Latin, and human mummies" and "came into the world with a breath of the jungle in my memory." A man who breaks all of his bones during an earthquake is treated by Doctor Cuevas  in another novel by this author, who also wrote a novel whose title character makes fake grenades from "Universal Matter." In a novel by this author, a snake-bitten Indian gardener fathers the title storyteller, who rejects the guerilla fighter Huberto Naranjo  and instead falls in love with Rolf Carle.
  - This author opened a novel with the line "Barrabas came to us by sea." Eva Luna is a novel by, for 10 points, what Chilean author who detailed the life of the Trueba  family in her novel The House of the Spirits? [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende
  - In one short story by this author, a reporter talks to a girl who is buried neck deep in a mudslide for three days. [PWR]
  - In another short story by this author, Belisa Crepusculario begins "selling words" and teaching a colonel public speaking. [PWR]
  - This author of "Two Words" created a boy who has his flute stolen by a homeless woman after his journalist grandmother neglected to pick him up from the airport.
  - That children's book character, Alexander Cold, transforms into a jaguar while undergoing a rite of passage of the (*) People of the Mist.
  - "And of Clay Are We Created" is part of a short story collection by this author which is framed as the stories of a woman who falls in love with Rolf Carle.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean author of City of the Beasts and Eva Luna, who wrote about Esteban Trueba and the clairvoyant Clara del Valle in The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende
  - This author created a protagonist who dreams of marrying Rosa the Beautiful, but marries her younger sister instead, and rescues his granddaughter from prison with the help of Transito Soto, a former prostitute.
  - Another of this author's characters spends several years in Agua Santa in the house of Riad Halabi, and later participates in a guerrilla attack to free political prisoners with the help of her future husband, the journalist Rolf Carle.
  - Much of this novelist's first book is set at Tres Marias, where the illegitimate Esteban Garcia comes to hate his father, Esteban Trueba.
  - For ten points, name this Chilean author of Eva Luna and The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende
  - One character created by this author achieves notoriety after saying "fucked" during a church sermon.
  - In another work by this author, Alex and his grandmother Kate travel to the Amazon rainforest where they meet the "People of the Mist" who guard an ancient secret city.
  - This author of City of the Beasts wrote a novel in which one character's clairvoyance allows her to predict that her sister, Rosa, shall remain silent until her marriage to the brutal Esteban.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean author of The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T11] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Allende Llona]
  - In a novel by this author, a woman plays piano for a traveling caravan of prostitutes while disguised as a homosexual man. [PWR]
  - That woman created by this author disguises herself as a cowboy named Elias in an attempt to find her lover. [PWR]
  - One character created by this author is abandoned by La Senora during the Revolt of the Whores. [PWR]
  - That character helps make fake grenades from Universal Matter to help (*) Huberto Naranjo rescue his comrades. [PWR]
  - Another character created by this author is conceived after her mother Consuelo sleeps with a dying Indian gardener.
  - In a novel by this author of Daughter of Fortune, the prophetess Clara breaks a nine-year silence to announce that she will marry Esteban Trueba.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean novelist of Eva Luna and The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende
  - The title character of one of this author's novels has three love interests, including Juan de Malaga and Rodrigo de Quiroga. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a novel about a certain hero's rivalry with Jean Lafitte and Rafael Moncada for the love of Juliana de Romeu. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, Carmen adopts the half-Vietnamese son of her dead brother and Gregory (*) Reeves serves in Vietnam. [PWR]
  - Two of her novels feature the physician Tao Chi'en and the Sommers family.
  - This author of Zorro and The Infinite Plan is known for a trilogy of children's books, including Forest of the Pygmies.
  - Her first novel takes place at the hacienda Las Tres Marias and its protagonist stops speaking for nine years after the death of her sister Rosa the Beautiful.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Isabel Allende Llona
  - This author created an ex-convict from Chicago who routinely pulled wagonloads of sand with his teeth during his stint as a circus strongman before donning the name Babalu the Bad and becoming a bodyguard for a brothel.
  - The protagonist of another novel by this author is hit so hard by her husband for comparing him to her daughter's summer lover that she loses several teeth and never speaks to him again for the rest of her life.
  - One of this author's characters cross-dresses as a cowboy and a Chinese boy in order to verify if her lover is Joaquin Murieta, but eventually settles with the physician Tao Chien.
  - She wrote about powerful characters like the Count Jean de Satigny and the brothel worker Transito Soto in her chronicle about the family of Alba, Esteban, and Clara Trueba.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean novelist who wrote Daughter of Fortune and The House of the Spirits. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author remarked in her cookbook dedicated to aphrodisiacs that Lucrezia Borgia's "fame as a poisoner has unjustly clouded her talents as a great hostess." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    Name this author of Aphrodite: A Memoir of the Senses, who wrote a novel in which Clara del Valle becomes mute after her sister Rosa the Beautiful dies by poisoning.
  Part 2 (ans: Pink Slime [or Mugre rosa]):
    This novel's narrator cares for the pathologically hungry boy Mauro amid an environmental disaster called the "red wind." Characters in this 2020 Fernanda Trias novel eat a processed, ammonia-laced product called "Meatrite."
  Part 3 (ans: Cesar Aira):
    This native of Coronel Pringles wrote novels like La prueba in both McDonald's and the burger chain Pumper Nic. A child is poisoned by a cyanide-laced ice cream cone in this author's novel How I Became a Nun.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A dictator called the "Caballero" ("kah-bah-YAY-roh") threatens to abort the title musician's son in a novel by this author depicting a "Fetal Rebellion." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ariel Dorfman [or Vladimiro Ariel Dorfman]):
    Name this Chilean author of The Last Song of Manuel Sendero, who depicted the torture victim Paulina Salas in his play Death and the Maiden.
  Part 2 (ans: The Passion According to G.H. (by Clarice Lispector) [or A paixao segundo G.H]):
    This novel by another author concerns a wealthy sculptor who had an abortion years prior. Its protagonist concludes that her Black former maid hated her upon entering her room and finding charcoal drawings of a man, woman, and dog.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    This author, who recounted helping her friend Celina get an illegal abortion in her 2021 memoir Soul of a Woman, also wrote the novels Eva Luna and The House of the Spirits.

[B3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by an author from this country, four mentally disabled brothers murder their sister after watching a maid decapitate a chicken. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oriental Republic of Uruguay):
    Name this country home to Horacio de Quiroga ("o-RA-see-oh de kee-RO-ga") and Eduardo Galeano ("e-doo-ARE-doh ga-lay-AH-no"), who wrote about the exploitation of one continent by right-wing military dictatorships in The Open Veins of Latin America.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Benedetti ("ben-eh-DET-ee")):
    This Uruguayan author rued military coups in a poem that begins "in order to kill the man of peace". This author related a love triangle between Alicia, Miguel ("mi-GHEL"), and Lucas from multiple perspectives in the novel Who Among Us?
  Part 3 (ans: Allende ("a-YEN-day") [or Isabel Allende]):
    Benedetti calls "the man of peace" a fortress in a poem titled for this surname. Another author with this surname wrote about the Trueba ("troo-AY-ba") family in The House of the Spirits.

[B4] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character responds to her lover Rolf Carle's request to tell him a story she has never told anyone before with twenty-three original short stories. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eva Luna [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this storytelling character who, in a novel, lives with La Senora and Riad Halabi before reuniting with guerilla revolutionary Huberto Naranjo.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    Eva Luna is a novel by this Chilean author who wrote about Esteban and Clara Trueba in The House of the Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Mimi [or Melesio]):
    Eva reunites with this character, who becomes her roommate. This character, a transgender telenovela actress, advises Eva about not pursuing Huberto and encourages her to write down her stories.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of a novel by this author learns that his lover Alejandra keeps the decapitated head of her criollo ancestor in a chest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ernesto Sabato (The other novel is El Tunel.)):
    Name this novelist and physicist who wrote On Heroes and Tombs. Another novel by this author begins, "I am the painter who killed Maria Iribarne."
  Part 2 (ans: blindness):
    In On Heroes and Tombs, Alejandra's father Fernando writes a conspiratorial "report" claiming that people with this affliction control the world. This affliction affected Jorge Luis Borges and John Milton.
  Part 3 (ans: Allende [accept Isabel Allende or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona] (The novel is House of the Spirits.)):
    In Sabato's novel El Tunel, the protagonist cuckolds a blind man with this surname. In a novel by an author with this surname, a clairvoyant woman recovers the decapitated head of her mother Nivea.

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: These events impoverish the title character's father in Alberto Blest Gana's novel Martin Rivas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mining booms [accept gold rushes, gold fever, silver rushes, copper rushes, or descriptions of mines or mineral speculation; accept California Gold Rush; prompt on economic booms, rushes, financial speculation, or similar answers] (Gorriti wrote "A Year in California." Eliza Sommers appears in Daughter of Fortune by Isabel Allende.)):
    What sort of event inspired a diary by Vicente Perez Rosales and a serial by Juana Manuela Gorriti? A novel about Eliza Sommers reworks stories of the bandit Joaquin Murrieta from one of these events.
  Part 2 (ans: Maria):
    Efrain's father prospects for gold in Choco in this semi-autobiographical 1867 romantic novel. Jorge Isaacs drew on his Jewish heritage to depict the title conversa of this foundational Colombian novel.
  Part 3 (ans: modernismo [or modernism; or word forms of modernist or modernistas] (The poem is Anarkos.)):
    Miners are compared to a pariah dog in a poem by Colombian author Guillermo Valencia, who is sometimes grouped within this movement led by Nicaraguan poet Ruben Dario.

[B7] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel from this country, Martin Santome hires a young woman named Laura for his accounting firm, though she later dies from heart failure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oriental Republic of Uruguay [or Republica Oriental de Uruguay]):
    Name this home country of Mario Benedetti. Genesis, Faces and Masks, and Century of the Wind make up a trilogy from this country consisting of creation myths and jungle stories, The Memory of Fire.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    The author of The Memory of Fire, Eduardo Galeano, also wrote Open Veins of Latin America, for which this Chilean author of The House of the Spirits wrote a foreword.
  Part 3 (ans: The Savage Detectives [or Los Detectives Salvajes]):
    Uruguayan author Alcira Soust Scaffo, who hid in a bathroom for 15 days, inspired the character of Auxilio Lacouture in this Roberto Bolano novel about Arturo Belano and Ulises Lima's search for Cesarea Tinajero.

[B8] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about literature depicting the Haitian Revolution.
  Part 1 (ans: Isabel Allende (aye-END-ay) [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    The slave Tete (TAY-tay) flees to New Orleans during the Haitian Revolution in Island Beneath the Sea, a 2009 novel by this Chilean author of The House of the Spirits.
  Part 2 (ans: Aime Cesaire (ay-MAY say-ZAIR) ):
    The aftermath of the Haitian Revolution is depicted in The Tragedy of King Christophe, a 1963 play by this author. This author from Martinique wrote a postcolonial reinterpretation of The Tempest titled A Tempest.
  Part 3 (ans: marvelous [or marvelous reality; or the marvelous real; or maravilloso (ma-ra-bee-OH-so); do not accept "magic" or "magical realism"]):
    In the influential preface to The Kingdom of This World, Alejo Carpentier (ah-LAY-ho car-pen-tee-AIR) links visiting historic sites from the Haitian Revolution to literature depicting this concept. The preface ends by stating "But what is the history of America if not a chronicle of this concept in the real?"

[B9] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Mauro Carias attempts to poison the Indigenous people of the Amazon with measles injections disguised as vaccines. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  City of the Beasts [or La ciudad de las bestias]):
    Name this novel in which Alexander Cold travels to the rainforest with his grandmother Kate. Alexander transforms into a jaguar after meeting the People of the Mist, who worship this novel's title creatures.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona; prompt on Llona]):
    This author of City of the Beasts wrote about Tao Chi'en, who determines that poison killed a "singsong girl,"in Daughter of Fortune. This Chilean author wrote The House of the Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa del Valle [or Rosa the Beautiful; prompt on del Valle]):
    In The House of the Spirits, an attempt to poison the politician Severo instead kills this character, whose autopsy renders her clairvoyant sister mute. This green-haired character is often referred to as "the Beautiful."

[B10] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this story first learns what written language is after the wind blows a newspaper to her feet, leading her to realize that "words make their way in the world without a master." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Two Words" [or "Dos palabras"]):
    Name this story in which Belisa Crepusculario is kidnapped to write a speech for the Colonel's presidential campaign. In this story, the Colonel cannot stop thinking of Belinda's "feral scent" and "sweetmint breath" after she gives him the title gift.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Allende Llona]):
    "Two Words" is a story by this Chilean author of The House of the Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Eva Luna [accept The Stories of Eva Luna or Cuentos de Eva Luna]):
    "Two Words" appears in a collection framed as stories told by this character to entertain her lover, the journalist Rolf Carle. In a novel by Allende, this character is conceived when her mother sleeps with a gardener who is dying of a snakebite.

[B11] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Carlos Orozco and the title daughter of a Jivaro ("hee-VAH-ro") chief are betrothed and set to marry in this general location in Juan Leon Mera's novel Cumanda. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Amazon Rainforest [prompt on rainforest or jungle; reject specific countries, e.g. "Peru"]):
    Name this general location where a military officer attempts to keep morale high by hiring prostitutes for his troops in Mario Vargas Llosa's ("YO-suh's") satirical novel Captain Pantoja and the Special Services.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende ("ah-YEN-day") [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona] {The second Allende novel is The House of the Spirits.}):
    Three diamonds are given to Alexander Cold by the indigenous woman Walimai at the end of this author's novel City of the Beasts, in which Cold encounters the "People of the Mist" in the Amazon. The conservative Esteban Trueba manages the hacienda ("uss-YEN-duh") of Tres Marias in a novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Graciliano Ramos [or Graciliano Ramos de Oliveira]):
    The two sons of the vaquero Fabiano dream of visiting the Amazon in Vidas Secas, a novel by this early 20th century Brazilian author. This author wrote about illiterate men in novels about the sertao ("ser-TAO"), such as Caetes ("kah-ay-TAYSS") and Angustia ("ung-GOOSS-chee-uh").

[B12] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This character loses her last forty dollars betting on a fight to the death between a bull and a bear. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eliza Sommers [prompt on Sommers]):
    Name this character who dresses as a man to look for her lover and who then earns a living playing piano as part of a group of traveling prostitutes.
  Part 2 (ans: California Gold Rush):
    In the novel Daughter of Fortune, Eliza leaves Valparaiso in search of Joaquin Andieta, who had stolen a shipment of firearms to buy a ship's passage as part of this historical event.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    This author created Eliza Sommers in her novel Daughter of Fortune; that novel, like her book The House of the Spirits, includes a family with the surname Del Valle.

[B13] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this play tries to trap a different character by including incorrect details in a pre-recorded confession, which the other character corrects while copying it out. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Death and the Maiden [or La muerte y la doncella]):
    Name this play which ends with a mirror being lowered in front of the audience while extracts from Mozart's 'Dissonance' string quartet play. Gerardo gets a flat tire after visiting the president early in this play.
  Part 2 (ans: Ariel Dorfman):
    This Argentine-Chilean author and activist wrote the play Death and the Maiden. Along with Armand Mattelart, this author analysed Disney comics as pro-American propaganda in How to Read Donald Duck.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    Dorfman was forced to flee Chile after an American-backed military coup in 1973, much like this other Chilean author, who wrote the novel The House of the Spirits.

[B14] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the frame story of one collection, this character tells stories like "Two Words," in which Belisa Crepusculario sells people individual words from a dictionary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eva Luna [or Eva Luna; accept The Stories of Eva Luna or Cuentos de Eva Luna or equivalents]):
    Name this character who narrates tales to her lover, a left-wing photojournalist, in a 1989 collection titled for her "Stories." In a novel, this character is encouraged to write stories by her friend, the transgender actress Mimi.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    Eva Luna narrates many stories by this Chilean author, who depicted the Trueba family in her novel The House of the Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]):
    This other Chilean author created more politically unsavory storytellers in the book Nazi Literature in the Americas. Scholars hunt for the writer Benno von Arcimboldi in this author's novel 2666.

[B15] 2021 ACF Nationals Qualifier (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Alexander Cold and his grandmother join an Amazon expedition in this author's novel City of the Beasts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    Name this Chilean author who wrote about the Trueba family in her debut novel, The House of the Spirits.
  Part 2 (ans: staying silent [accept clear equivalents, such as silence or being mute or not talking]):
    The Trueba family seek medical help when Clara chooses to engage in this behavior for nine years, stopping at last on her nineteenth birthday.
  Part 3 (ans: Eva Luna [accept either]):
    This character tells such tales as "Toad's Mouth" and "The Little Heidelberg" in a collection by Allende. She is also the title character of a novel in which she has a romance with the guerrilla fighter Huberto Naranjo.

[B16] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The elderly painter Lorenzo refuses to sell or exhibit his self-portrait despite his family's descent into poverty in a play from this country whose title parodies A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philippines [or Republic of the Philippines; or Republika ng Pilipinas]):
    Name this country. A novelist and ophthalmologist called this country a "lost Eden" in a poem that he wrote while awaiting his execution titled "My Last Farewell."
  Part 2 (ans: Catholicism [or Catholic Church; prompt on Christianity]):
    That author, Jose Rizal, reacted to the abuse by Spanish priests of this religion in novels like Noli Me Tangere ("no-lee may TAHN-gay-ray"). Two Portuguese missionaries of this religion travel to Japan in Shusaku Endo's Silence.
  Part 3 (ans: magical realism [or magic realism; or marvelous realism; or realismo magico; or lo real maravilloso] (The unnamed novel is Isabel Allende's The House of the Spirits.)):
    Nick Joaquin, the author of A Portrait of the Artist as Filipino, contributed to this style with stories like "May Day Eve." Alejo Carpentier's ("ah-LAY-ho car-pen-tee-AIR's") preface to The Kingdom of This World coined the term for this style, which was used for a novel set at the hacienda Las Tres Marias.

[B17] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this novel is told by his wife that "those who have always won will win again," which he turns into a campaign slogan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The House of the Spirits [or La casa de los espiritus]):
    Name this novel in which a clairvoyant character predicts the death of Rosa the Beautiful.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Allende Llona]):
    The House of the Spirits is by this Chilean novelist.
  Part 3 (ans: Alba Trueba de Satigny):
    The novel ends with the revelation that this character is pregnant, as she sits with the dead body of Esteban Trueba. She is the daughter of Blanca and Pedro Tercero.

[B18] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Severed fingers are apparently a prominent motif in literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    Esteban Trueba cuts off three fingers from his daughter Blanca's lover Pedro Tercero in The House of the Spirits, a novel by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: A Prayer for Owen Meany):
    The title character of this John Irving novel, who speaks in all capitals, cuts off his friend's finger with a headstone-cutting tool to get him out of service in the Vietnam War and saves orphans from a hand grenade.
  Part 3 (ans: Sister Dorothea):
    In The Tin Drum, Oskar Matzerath is falsely convicted for killing this nun, whose severed ring finger he finds in a field. When he bumps into her in the middle of the night, he tells her he is Satan, making her faint.

[B19] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a woman gives birth to twins with her mother's head on the dresser, which is later hidden in a hatbox under the bed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The House of Spirits [accept La casa de los espiritus]):
    In this novel, Clara breaks her nine years of silence to announce that she will marry the man who had been engaged to her dead sister, Rosa the Beautiful.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    This Chilean author wrote The House of Spirits, as well as Eva Luna and Daughter of Fortune.
  Part 3 (ans: Pedro Tercero Garcia [prompt on a partial answer]):
    This man first met Blanca on her first visit to Las Tres Marias, when they were found curled up together under the dining room table. He becomes a socialist revolutionary, perhaps inspired by his grandfather's tale of chickens and foxes.

[B20] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's novels include The Garden, The Leather Mask, D'Arsonval, and The Blind Woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benno von Archimboldi [accept Hans Reiter]):
    Name this elusive author who is unsuccessfully sought out by professors Jean-Claude Pelletier, Piero Morini, Manuel Espinoza and Liz Norton in "The Part about the Critics."
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    This Chilean author created the fictional author Benno von Archimboldi in his novel 2666. A group of "Visceral Realists" appear in his novel The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    Bolano condescendingly claimed that this other Chilean author's "attempts at literature range from kitsch to the pathetic." Her novels include Daughter of Fortune, Eva Luna, and The House of the Spirits.

[B21] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This woman married Rodrigo de Quirigo after the death of her lover, Pedro de Valdivia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ines de Suarez):
    Identify this conquistadora of Chile.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende (Llona)):
    Ines de Suarez is the title character of Ines of My Soul, a novel by this Chilean author of Eva Luna and Of Love and Shadows.
  Part 3 (ans: 1849 California Gold Rush [accept equivalents]):
    Eliza Sommers' lover Joaquin Andieta runs off to participate in this event in an Allende novel whose story continues in Portrait in Sepia.

[B22] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book enjoyed a recent resurgence of interest - and even became the second best-selling book on Amazon for a day- when Hugo Chavez presented it as a gif to Barack Obama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Open Veins of Latin America [or Las Venas Abiertas de America Latina]):
    Name this book by Eduardo Galeano, subtitled "Five Centuries of the Pillage of a Continent," that details how foreign powers, from European explorers to modern capitalist corporations, have bled the title location of its resources.
  Part 2 (ans: (Oriental Republic of) Uruguay):
    Eduardo Galeano hails from this Latin American country, which is also the home of the authors Mario Benedetti, Juan Carlos Onetti, and Horacio Quiroga.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    In her foreword to the 1997 edition of the Open Veins of Latin America, this author wrote that it was the only book other than Neruda's Odes that she took with her when she fed Chile. This author of Eva Luna is best known for a novel about the Trueba family.

[B23] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character joins Joe Bonecrusher's traveling band of prostitutes and serves as their chef after she miscarries during a voyage with Tao Chi'en. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eliza Sommers [accept either]):
    Name this character who searches for her lost love, Joaquin Andieta. This character's granddaughter, Aurora del Valle, is the protagonist of Portrait in Sepia.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    Eliza Sommers is the title character of Daughter of Fortune, a novel by this author of Eva Luna.
  Part 3 (ans: The House of the Spirits [or La casa de los espiritus]):
    The frame story of this Allende novel is about the journals kept by Clara. In the main story, Clara can predict the future and marries Esteban Trueba, the man who builds the title structure.

[B24] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the Revolt of the Whores forces La Senora to abandon the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eva Luna):
    Name this novel, whose title woman is conceived by Consuelo when she sleeps with an Indian gardener who was bitten by a snake.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    This Chilean author of The House of the Spirits wrote Eva Luna.
  Part 3 (ans: Huberto Naranjo [or Huberto Naranjo]):
    This sometime lover of Eva takes on the name of Comandante Rogelio after becoming a guerilla leader. His associates include El Negro.

[B25] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Early on in this novel, a prophecy is fulfilled by the death of Rosa the Beautiful. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The House of the Spirits [or La casa de los espiritus]):
    Name this novel in which Esteban becomes enraged at Pedro Tercero after he discovers that Pedro is sleeping with his daughter, Blanca. Esteban later befriends his granddaughter from the liaison, Alba.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    This Chilean author made her name with The House of the Spirits and later penned Daughter of Fortune and Portrait in Sepia.
  Part 3 (ans: Of Love and Shadows [or De amor y de sombra]):
    The relationship between Francisco Leal and Irene Beltran is at the heart of this other Allende novel. Not surprisingly, Irene becomes disenchanted with her fiance, who is nicknamed the Bridegroom of Death.
