=== STOCK CLUES: Roberto Bolano ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 58 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 23 found, 68 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]
  - One of this author's characters frames a letter from Maxim Gorky after publishing a novel about a boy who is abducted by a seaweed-like extraterrestrial.
  - In a novel by this author, a former architect designs the cover of the literary magazine Lee Harvey Oswald, which contained poems from the architect's "poetess" daughters Angelica  and Maria. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, Liz (*) Norton returns to the wheelchair-using Piero Morini, ending their initial search for the pseudonymous author Hans Reiter.
  - In another novel by this author, Ulises Lima and Arturo search for Cesarea Tinajero , the mysterious founder of Visceral Realism.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean novelist who wrote 2666 and The Savage Detectives. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Paris (The first sentence refers to Roberto Bolano's Monsieur Pain.)
  - In a novella set in this city, a Mesmerist tries to reach a dying poet who cannot stop hiccuping.
  - The narrator of a story set in this city feels a "blind gaze" that seems to say, "Save us, save us." This city partly titles a story in which a young woman begins vomiting rabbits.
  - The speaker describes dying in this city "in a rainstorm" in the poem "Black Stone on a White Stone." After stopping a boy from being seduced in this (emphasize) European city, a photographer feels trapped in his own photograph.
  - A man stares into an animal's golden eyes and seems to switch places with the title axolotl in this city, which is the setting of "Blow-Up" and the first half of Hopscotch.
  - For 10 points, name this city where expats such as Cesar Vallejo  and Julio Cortazar were influenced by local authors such as Simone de Beauvoir. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Chile [or Republic of Chile or Republica de Chile] (The first line is from Roberto Bolano's essay "Eight Seconds with Nicanor Parra.")
  - A writer from this country said that he's sure another author's poetry "will endure" in an essay titled "Eight Seconds with [an author from this country]." That author from this country wrote "The Individual's Soliloquy," and often declared "I take back everything I've said." The speaker of a poem by an author from this country describes "the tenderness, light as water and as flour. / And the word scarcely begun on the lips." An author from this country wrote "It so happens I am sick of being a man" in "Walking Around." Nicanor Parra is from this country, as is an author who wrote in a poem that "In you everything sank!" and declared "It is the hour of departure." For 10 points, name this home country of the author of "The Song of Despair," Pablo Neruda. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Buenos Aires [or Autonomous City of Buenos Aires; or Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires] (The description of Roberto Arlt as "to put it modestly, Jesus Christ" was given by Roberto Bolano.)
  - A novel set in this city includes a lengthy discussion of the "built/unbuilt" opposition, as seen in the Mbutu's circular arrangement of huts and in the Aboriginal Dreamtime. [PWR]
  - A description of an author from this city as "to put it modestly, Jesus Christ" is a popular blurb for a novel whose protagonist coats flowers in metal and schemes to kidnap his ex-wife's cousin. [PWR]
  - A novel set in this city ends with a New Year's party on the roof of an unfinished apartment complex. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another novel constructs a makeshift (*) bridge connecting neighboring apartment windows in this city, where he works at a circus before being institutionalized. [PWR]
  - The Seven Madmen by Roberto Arlt and Ghosts by Cesar Aira are set in this capital city, where Horacio heads after meeting the writer Morelli in Paris in a novel whose "Table of Instructions" outlines how its 99 "expendable chapters" can be read out of order.
  - For 10 points, Hopscotch is partly set in what South American home city of Julio Cortazar? [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]
  - A bizarre passage of a novel by this author makes a series of prophecies of the popularity of authors in the future, such as "Paul Eluard shall appeal to the masses in the year 2101." In a novel by this author, a paranoid professor makes a series of geometric drawings featuring the names of philosophers at vertices and hangs a copy of Euclid's Elements from a clothes line. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, the narrator hides in a bathroom stall for thirteen days during a fictionalization of the (*) Tlatelolco  Massacre. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about the investigative journalist Oscar Fate in a five part novel whose notorious fourth section details the aftermath of hundreds of murders in gory detail.
  - The reclusive author Archimboldi is discovered to actually be Hans Reiter in a novel by, for 10 points, what author of Amulet who wrote about the investigation of the murders of women in Santa Teresa in 2666? [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]
  - In a novel by this author, a girl who had won the Laura Damian Prize has an older sister who is "obsessed with the Marquis de Sade and wants to try the spanking thing," according to the bisexual Luscious Skin.
  - A man also known as Quincy Williams works for the Harlem magazine Black Dawn in a novel by this author that ends by recounting the life of Hans Reiter.
  - Sections such as "The Part about Amalfitano" comprise a novel by this author in which the journalist Oscar Fate is sent to cover a boxing match.
  - This author's final novel centers on Benno von Archimboldi and the murders of women in Santa Teresa.
  - Poets such as Ulises Lima search for the "visceral realist" Cesarea Tinajero in a novel by, for 10 points, what Chilean author of The Savage Detectives and 2666? [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Cuba [The fictional author is Ernesto Perez Mason from Roberto Bolano's Nazi Literature in the Americas .]
  - A fictional author from this country published a novel that uses the first word of every chapter to spell out the acrostic "LONG LIVE HITLER." In a poem from this country, the speaker is "proudly consumed in a new labyrinth" after entering the title "obscure meadow." Another poet from this country wrote "Templad mi lira, dadmela, que siento" (taym-PLOD mee LEE-ra, DOD-may-la, kay see-AYN-toe) to begin a poem addressed to Niagara falls. [PWR]
  - Another poet from this country used jitanjaforas (hee-tawn-HA-fo-ras) in poems such as one beginning (*) "yambambo, yambambe / Repica el congo solongo" (yawm-bawm-BO, yawm-bawm-BAY / ray-PEE-ca el COHN-go so-LOHN-go) . [PWR]
  - This home country of Jose Maria Heredia and Jose Lezama Lima is home to the author of a poem in which the speaker's white ancestor says "I'm tired" while his black ancestor says "I'm dying." A poet from this country rhymed the words "franca" (FRON-ka) and "arranca" (a-RON-ka) with the title line of his poem "Cultivo una rosa blanca" (cool-TEE-vo OO-na RO-sa BLON-ca) .
  - For 10 points, name this home country of the author of The Ballad of the Two Grandfathers , Nicolas Guillen, as well as the author of Simple verses , Jose Marti. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 META (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano
  - This author states that "We're human beings, my son, almost birds / Public heroes and secrets" in the poem "Godzilla in Mexico".
  - In another of this author's works, Father Urrutia recounts the time he spent educating Pinochet and his generals about Marxism.
  - Another work by this author of Distant Star is an allegory for a series of femicides in La Ciudad Juarez. [PWR]
  - This creator of Oscar and Rosa Amalfitano wrote a novel in which the Ulises Lima pursues Cesarea Tinajero, and (*) 43 of this author's best-known poems are compiled in the collection The Romantic Dogs.
  - In this author's most famous novel, Archimboldi's nephew Klaus Haas is suspected of murdering hundreds of women in the city of Santa Teresa.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean author of The Savage Detectives and 2666. [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano
  - A novel by this author consists of a single sentence about the experiences of a heroin addict named Beach. [PWR]
  - Another story by this author tells about a relative of Kafka's Josephine, a mouse singer, who instead is a rat policeman. [PWR]
  - In a work by this author, priests become falconers to protect churches from pigeon droppings. [PWR]
  - In another work by this author, an investigation is derailed by a man urinating in churches; that novel has sections including "The Part about the Critics" and "The Part about (*) Amalfitano." In that novel, Oscar Fate is asked to cover a boxing match, while in another novel by him, Cesarea Tinajero is sought by the "visceral realists" including Ulises Lima. [PWR]
  - This author of By Night in Chile wrote his most famous novel about gruesome murders of women in Santa Teresa.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Savage Detectives and 2666. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano (boh-LAHN-yoh) [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]
  - This man created a character who has a one-legged father and a one-eyed mother, steals a copy of Animals and Plants of the European Coastal Region, and becomes obsessed with seaweed.
  - He concluded a novel with a drawing of a rectangle and the question "what's outside the window?" A former Black Panther who wrote the cookbook Eating Ribs with Barry Seaman appears in a book by this man in which a journalist is sent to cover a boxing match.
  - In one of his books, Arturo and Octavio take a Ford Impala into the desert in search of a "visceral realist" poet.
  - He also created four critics who, while seeking the writer Benno von Archimboldi, travel to Santa Teresa, where many women have been murdered.
  - For 10 points, what Chilean author wrote The Savage Detectives and 2666 ? [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano Avalos
  - A poem by this author begins "They visit you in the darkest hour, all of your lost loves" and describes its subject's eyes as "the lighthouse piercing your silence" and "the most sought-after book." That poem is named "The Ghost of Edna Lieberman," after a former lover who is mentioned in many of his novels.
  - A journalist created by this author sees a mural of the Virgin of Guadalupe with one eye closed in a garage, and is shown a snuff film attributed to Robert Rodriguez. [PWR]
  - In a section called "The Part About Fate," that journalist covers a boxing match which he doesn't care about after being sent to Santa (*) Teresa, where he becomes more interested in investigating a series of murders.
  - Those events occur in a novel by this author featuring characters like the the professor Oscar Amalfitano and the mysterious German novelist Benno von Archimboldi, which obsessively chronicles the female homicides in Ciudad Juarez.
  - For 10 points, name this author of 2666. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Roberto Bolano
  - One of this novelist's characters repeatedly hears the phrase "she's laying thousands of eggs" in his sleep after he randomly generates numbers that win him a fortune in a soccer pool.
  - Another of this author's characters desecrates churches with gallons of urine, and becomes known as the Penitent.
  - Azucena Esquivel Plata tells the story of her friend Kelly Parker to the reporter Sergio Gonzalez in this author's final novel, which ends with a section about Hans Reiter.
  - This author wrote two novels about groups of literary cultists, one devoted to Benno von Archimboldi, and another which seeks the visceral realist Cesarea Tinajero.
  - He wrote a novel whose section "The Part About the Crimes" describes the murder of hundreds of Mexican women in Santa Teresa.
  - For 10 points, name this Chilean author of The Savage Detectives and 2666. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for these objects states that its author "has died; they kept hitting him, everyone, even though he does nothing to them." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: stone [or piedra]):
    Name this type of object that titles a poem in which the speaker claims that he will die "on a day I already remember," perhaps "on a Thursday, as today is, in autumn."
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano [Roberto Bolano Avalos]):
    "Black Stone on a White Stone" is by Cesar Vallejo, who was fictionalized as Monsieur Pain in a novel by this author of The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: Surrealism):
    Vallejo's avant-garde poetry collection Trilce, which uses deliberate misspellings and unusual syntax, anticipates features of this literary movement whose "manifesto" was written by Andre Breton.

[B2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A series of poems describes members of this profession as frozen "in the great / refrigerator of Los Angeles" and "lost in the dark city." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: detectives [accept The Savage Detectives or Los detectives salvajes; accept "The Lost Detectives" or "Los detectives perdidos"; accept "The Frozen Detectives" or "Los detectives helados"; prompt on private investigators or private eyes or P.I.s]):
    What profession titles a novel that ends with the narrator being disappointed by a poet's notebooks after taking a road trip to the Sonora Desert with the prostitute Lupe?
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]):
    "The Frozen Detectives" is by this Chilean author, who fictionalized himself and Mario Santiago Papasquiaro as Visceral Realist poets in his novel The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: swans [accept "El Cisne"; accept Swan's Howl or Aullido de cisne; prompt on birds or avians] (The second poem is by Ruben Dario.)):
    Papasquiaro inspired the infrarealists with a collection named for this animal's "howl." "The new Poetry" is conceived under this animal in a poem that begins, "It happened in a divine moment for the human species."

[B3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about metafictional literature exams within postmodern fiction, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Gustave Flaubert ("flow-BAIR") [accept Flaubert's Parrot]):
    In chapter 14 of a Julian Barnes novel about this author's "parrot," Geoffrey Braithwaite quizzes the reader on topics like an epitaph of this author's lover Louise Colet and a psych evaluation of his character Emma Bovary.
  Part 2 (ans: Chile [or Republic of Chile] (The novel is 2666 by Roberto Bolano.)):
    Alejandro Zambra used this country's national aptitude test to structure his novel Multiple Choice. An author from here charted femicides in Mexico and a hunt for the writer Benno von Archimboldi in a huge five-part novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Classics [or classical studies; accept Greek; accept Ancient or Greek or Classical literature or philosophy; prompt on literature or philosophy by asking "of what era?"; reject "history"] (Gareth uses the name Socrates, and the novel is Donna Tartt's The Secret History.)):
    The "Final Exam" that concludes Marisha Pessl's Special Topics in Calamity Physics notes that Gareth used an alias inspired by this subject while murdering people. In a 1992 novel, an elite clique studying this subject at Hampden College murders their friend "Bunny" Corcoran.

[B4] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: As a child, this author was profoundly influenced by the book Animals and Plants of the European Coastal Region. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Benno von Archimboldi [or Hans Reiter]):
    Name this fictional author whose novel D'Arsonval ("dar-sohn-VALL") forms a trilogy with his English-themed The Garden and Polish-themed The Leather Mask. This author's first novel, Bifurcaria Bifurcata, was first translated into Italian in 1988 by Piero Morini.
  Part 2 (ans: 2666 ):
    Archimboldi is a fictional author whose life is recounted in the fifth section of this novel. This novel's third section follows Oscar Fate, an American journalist who is sent to cover a boxing match in Santa Teresa.
  Part 3 (ans: Roberto Bolano (Avalos)):
    Before his death, this Chilean author requested that his novel 2666 be divided into five books corresponding to its five parts.

[B5] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this novel is re-imagined as being a widower in the section "The Fall of the Berlin Wall" of the book Woes of the True Policeman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 2666):
    Name this novel. Four literary critics search for Benno von Archimboldi in the city of Santa Teresa in this novel, which details an epidemic of unsolved homicides involving hundreds of Mexican women.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano (Avalos)):
    2666 is by this Chilean author of The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: Nazi Party [or National Socialist German Workers' Party; or NSDAP; accept Nazi Germany; accept Nazi Literature in the Americas or La Literatura Nazi en America]):
    In 2666, Benno von Archimboldi intentionally avoids joining this organization despite joining the army. Bolano created an ironic fictional encyclopedia by members of this organization, many of whom escaped to South America after the end of World War II.

[B6] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of this novel repeatedly discovers dead fish in the aquarium and notices two suns and two moons in the sky. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Invention of Morel [or La invencion de Morel or Morel's Invention] (by Adolfo Bioy Casares)):
    Name this novel in which the narrator uses the title object, which can record and reproduce reality, to make it appear that he and Faustine are in love on the island of Villings.
  Part 2 (ans: H. G. Wells [or Herbert George Wells]):
    The title of The Invention of Morel alludes to this author's The Island of Doctor Moreau. The narrator meets the Eloi and the Morlocks in this British author's novel The Time Machine.
  Part 3 (ans: Mexico (The Daughter of Doctor Moreau is by Silvia Moreno-Garcia; 2666 is by Roberto Bolano.)):
    Carlota questions her father's hybrid experiments in the Wells-inspired The Daughter of Doctor Moreau, a novel set in this country. The journalist Oscar Fate researches a series of murders in this country in the novel 2666.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This is the first work Angel Flores uses to justify the year 1935 as a literary "point of departure" in his essay "Magical Realism in Spanish-American Fiction." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Universal History of Infamy [or A Universal History of Iniquity or Historia universal de la infamia]):
    Name this collection which includes the short stories "The Uncivil Teacher of Court Etiquette Kotsuke no Suke" and "The Widow Ching - Pirate."
  Part 2 (ans: Jorge Luis Borges [or Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges Acevedo]):
    Flores attributed the growth in magical realism to this author's Franz Kafka translations. This author of A Universal History of Infamy wrote "The Library of Babel."
  Part 3 (ans: detectives [accept The Savage Detectives or Los Detectives Salvajes] (by Roberto Bolano)):
    Flores argued the "well-knit plots" of magical realist novels originate from reading novels in a genre titled for this profession. The visceral realists Belano and Lima track a poet to the Sonora desert in a novel titled for this job.

[B8] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A notorious real-life instance of these events is the basis of the novel American Woman by Susan Choi, which centers on Jenny Shimada, a fictional version of Wendy Yoshimura. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kidnappings [or abductions; prompt on captivity] (Donoghue's novel is Room.)):
    Name these events, another example of which inspired a novel by Emma Donoghue in which one is perpetrated by "Old Nick." Sloane plans one of these events to get revenge on her husband Mickey in Thomas Pynchon's novel Inherent Vice.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    This Chilean author was inspired by the rampant kidnappings and femicides in Ciudad Juarez to include dozens of pages recording similarly graphic crimes in Santa Teresa in his novel 2666.
  Part 3 (ans: Hisham Matar):
    This British-Libyan author recalls his family's attempts to find his father, who was kidnapped by the Gaddafi regime, in his memoir The Return. His novel Anatomy of a Disappearance is also about a kidnapping.

[B9] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the frame story of one collection, this character tells stories like "Two Words," in which Belisa Crepusculario sells people individual words from a dictionary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eva Luna [or Eva Luna; accept The Stories of Eva Luna or Cuentos de Eva Luna or equivalents]):
    Name this character who narrates tales to her lover, a left-wing photojournalist, in a 1989 collection titled for her "Stories." In a novel, this character is encouraged to write stories by her friend, the transgender actress Mimi.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    Eva Luna narrates many stories by this Chilean author, who depicted the Trueba family in her novel The House of the Spirits.
  Part 3 (ans: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]):
    This other Chilean author created more politically unsavory storytellers in the book Nazi Literature in the Americas. Scholars hunt for the writer Benno von Arcimboldi in this author's novel 2666.

[B10] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: After one of these events, a knife sharpener calls a paramedic a "dumbfuck" after making a discovery with an ice cream vendor in a city often believed to be the "hidden center" of the novel it appears in. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Santa Teresa murders [or murders in the novel 2666; prompt on murders of women or femicides or equivalents by asking "in what novel?"]):
    Name these events. Over one hundred of these events are described in the fourth section of a novel that opens with an epigraph from Baudelaire alluding to an "oasis of horror in a desert of boredom."
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano Avalos):
    The Santa Teresa murders occur in 2666, a novel by this Chilean author who created a group of Mexican poets called the Visceral Realists in The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: Benno von Archimboldi [or Benno von Archimboldi; or Hans Reiter; or Hans Reiter]):
    The fifth section of 2666 is titled for this mysterious author, whom three literary critics look for in Mexico in the first section. This character takes his pseudonym from a Mannerist painter.

[B11] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: These punctuation marks are used repeatedly to create a feeling of claustrophobia in Amiri Baraka's poem "An Agony. As Now." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: parentheses (The mentioned poem is cummings's "r-p-o-p-h-e-s-s-a-g-r.")):
    Name these punctuation marks used to intertwine the words "rearrangingly" and "become" at the end of another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: World War One [or The Great War or WWI]):
    David Jones's epic poem In Parenthesis incorporates Welsh mythology into the story of soldier John Ball's service in this war. e.e. cummings's novel The Enormous Room is set during this war.
  Part 3 (ans: Roberto Bolano (Avalos)):
    This author's essays and newspaper columns were assembled into the book Between Parentheses. His poetry collections include The Romantic Dogs, and he helped found a poetic movement called "infrarealism."

[B12] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Andrew Wylie served as this author's literary agent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]):
    Identify this author, whose alter ego Arturo appears in his novel Distant Star.Four scholars studying the reclusive Benno von Archimboldi appear in "The Part about the Critics," the first section of his final five-part novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmen Balcells [or Carmen Balcells Segala]):
    Prior to Wylie, Bolano was represented by this Catalan publicist, whose push for translations of books by her clients Julio Cortazar and Gabriel Garcia Marquez helped propel the Latin American Boom.
  Part 3 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa):
    When he learned of Balcells's death in 2015, this author said, "Carmen dearest, [I'll] see you soon." This Peruvian author wrote Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.

[B13] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Leading Chilean writers like Enrique Lafourcade attended this author's fancy salons, which took place at the same time dissidents were tortured in her basement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mariana (Ines) Callejas (Honores)):
    Name this author, a secret agent for Pinochet who was married to the assassin Michael Townley. In 2008, she was jailed for her role in the bombing of General Carlos Prats.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano (Avalos)):
    This author depicted one of the salons of Mariana Callejas in the final section of his novel By Night in Chile. Hundreds of women in Santa Teresa are mysteriously murdered in his massive novel 2666.
  Part 3 (ans: Oriental Republic of Uruguay [or Republica Oriental del Uruguay]):
    Bolano's novel Amulet is based on a 1968 incident in which a poet from this country, Alcira Soust Scaffo, hid for 15 days during the occupation of UNAM. Another author from this country, Eduardo Galeano, wrote Open Veins of Latin America.

[B14] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A journalist from this country described an earthquake that decimated its capital city in the book Nothing, Nobody. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mexico):
    Name this country home to Elena Poniatowska, who interspersed the poetry of its native son Octavio Paz in her oral history of a massacre of students in this country, The Night of Tlatelolco.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos] [The novel is 2666.]):
    Auxilio Lacouture hides out in a university bathroom during the Tlatelolco Massacre in this author's novel Amulet. Sections titled "The Part about Fate" and "The Part about the Crimes" are set in Mexico in another novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonora Carrington):
    This author and illustrator of Poniatowska's book Lilus Kikus became politically active after the massacre. While living in Mexico, this author wrote a surrealist story in which the title character switches places with a talking hyena, "The Debutante," as well as the novel The Hearing Trumpet.

[B15] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The poem about Kafka observing the end of the world was written by this Chilean author, whose major novels were translated into English by Natasha Wimmer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    Name this writer who lamented that anyone involved in the literary world who hailed from Chile no longer lived there in his essay "Exiles."
  Part 2 (ans: women [or females]):
    In Bolano's novel 2666 , the common plot point of the five narratives is a series of serial murders in which this type of people are being killed in Santa Teresa.

[B16] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this book narrates the tale of a man choking a prostitute and another ends up in jail in Israel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Savage Detectives):
    Name this novel which centres on the author's alter ego and his search with Ulises Lima for the elusive poet Cesarea Tinejro [Tin-EH-ro] who they see as the mother of the Visceral Realists
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano [Bol-anyo]):
    The Savage Detectives was written by this author of 2666, The Third Reich and The Skating Rink.
  Part 3 (ans: Chile):
    Bolano was born in this country which is also home to Pablo Neruda and Isabel Allende [Aye-EN-de]

[B17] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's novels include The Garden, The Leather Mask, D'Arsonval, and The Blind Woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benno von Archimboldi [accept Hans Reiter]):
    Name this elusive author who is unsuccessfully sought out by professors Jean-Claude Pelletier, Piero Morini, Manuel Espinoza and Liz Norton in "The Part about the Critics."
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    This Chilean author created the fictional author Benno von Archimboldi in his novel 2666. A group of "Visceral Realists" appear in his novel The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    Bolano condescendingly claimed that this other Chilean author's "attempts at literature range from kitsch to the pathetic." Her novels include Daughter of Fortune, Eva Luna, and The House of the Spirits.

[B18] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the journalist Oscar Fate takes Rosa Amalfitano to the United States in order to escape an ongoing rash of murders of women in Santa Teresa, a fictionalized version of Ciudad Juarez. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 2666):
    Identify this 2004 novel, published a year after its author's death, whose first part focuses on a quartet of literary critics in search of the reclusive German author "Benno von Archimboldi".
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano Avalos):
    2666 is a novel by this Chilean author who also used Santa Teresa as the setting for part of a novel about the Visceral Realists' search for Cesarea Tinajero, called The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: gauchos):
    Bolano titled a collection of stories and essays for "The Insufferable" one of these figures, pampas-dwelling cattle herders who gave their name to a type of literature exemplified by the epic poem Martin Fierro.

[B19] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a ranty speech about stars by an ex-Black Panther and motivational speaker named Barry Seaman is witnessed by the journalist Oscar Fate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 2666 [or Dos mil seiscientos sesenta y seis]):
    Name this five-part posthumous novel whose third section, "The Part About Fate", follows a section in which a literature professor goes mad, called "The Part About Amalfitano".
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano Avalos):
    This Chilean author of The Savage Detectives set a barely-fictional version of the Ciudad Juarez femicides in the Mexican city of Santa Teresa in 2666.
  Part 3 (ans: Jorge Luis Borges):
    This earlier author's A Universal History of Infamy has been compared to Bolano's Nazi Literature in the Americas, since both survey a ton of fake people. This blind Argentine also created the fake author Pierre Menard.

[B20] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel takes its title from a letter written by Henry James Sr. to his sons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Obscene Bird of Night [or El obsceno pajaro de la noche]):
    Name this novel set mostly in a convent called La Casa del Ejercicios Espirituales de la Encarnacion which follows the narration of several characters, who turn out to be guises of Humberto Penaloza.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Chile):
    Jose Donoso, the author of The Obscene Bird of Night, was a novelist from this South American country, also home to Pablo Neruda and Nicanor Parra.
  Part 3 (ans: Roberto Bolano Avalos):
    This contemporary of Donoso described a search for Mexican poet Cesarea Tinajero in The Savage Detectives and penned the gargantuan novel 2666.

[B21] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The first section of this novel features a group of critics who are searching for the author Benno von Archimboldi in Santa Teresa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 2666 ):
    Name this novel in five books, which, in its last book, reveals that Archimboldi is actually Hans Reiter.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    This author of 2666 also wrote The Savage Detectives, in which Arturo Belano and Ulises Lima search for Cesarea Tinajero.
  Part 3 (ans: Chile):
    Bolano hails from this country, much like Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda.

[B22] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After performing readings of his poetry, this poet would say "I retract everything I just said." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    Name this Chilean poet of Poems and Antipoems and After Dinner Declarations.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    This Chilean wrote the poetry collection The Romantic Dogs, which includes the poem "Godzilla in Mexico." He is better known for his novels, including The Savage Detectives and 2666.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo Neruda):
    This greatest of Chilean poets, who always wrote in green ink, wrote "I like when you are silent because it is as if you are absent" in one poem from Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.

[B23] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, one character named Raymond Chandler is sent to the central location to cover a boxing match. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 2666):
    Identify this novel which is separated into such chapters about a recluse named Benno Archimboldi, and Oscar Amalfintino, a professor of German who goes insane.
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano):
    2666 is a novel by this Chilean author who wrote about strategy board game champion Udo Berger in The Third Reich. This man is perhaps better known for writing about Arturo and Octavio in The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende):
    Roberto Bolano fiercely criticized this other Chilean author who wrote Eva Luna and The House of the Spirits.
