=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Einaudi ===
(Questions where 'Einaudi' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Social Science
     Answer: real [accept imaginary money or real money or real rigidity or real business cycles; reject "RBC"]
  - A Luigi Einaudi essay traces how medieval merchants established this concept as a standard, despite referring to it using the antonym of the modern term.
  - Laurence Ball and David Romer showed how substantial stickiness can arise from rigidity described by this adjective, combined with small frictions.
  - This is the first word in the name of an economic theory whose models often take into account the "time to build" and use the (*) HP filter.
  - This is the first word in the name of a theory pioneered by Kydland and Prescott that proposed that business cycles are the primary driver of economic performance.
  - This adjective indicates that a quantity is pegged to the value of goods or services, and thus is not subject to inflation.
  - For 10 points, economists often contrast nominal GDP with what type of GDP?

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a collaboration with neuroscientist David Eagleman, this man released an eight and a half hour album titled Sleep in 2015. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Richter):
    Name this composer who included "On the Nature of Daylight" in The Blue Notebooks. His other works include the film score to Waltz with Bashir and Vivaldi Recomposed.
  Part 2 (ans: The Four Seasons [or Le quattro stagioni]):
    Richter "recomposed" these violin concerti by Vivaldi. The movements "Winter" and "Summer" are in this set of pieces which opens The Contest Between Harmony and Invention.
  Part 3 (ans: ambient music):
    In addition to minimalism, Richter worked in this genre of slow, repetitive music intended to create a sense of calmness. Brian Eno and Ludovico Einaudi are key musicians in this genre of music, inspired by the "furniture music" of Erik Satie.

[BM2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer layered tape loops of differing lengths for an album whose tracks have names like "1/1" ("one one") and "2/1" ("two one"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Brian Eno [or Brian Peter George St John le Baptiste de la Salle Eno]):
    Name this English musician who was inspired by a flight to Cologne for his 1979 album Music for Airports. This musician's production credits include the Talking Heads album Remain in Light and David Bowie's Berlin Trilogy.
  Part 2 (ans: ambient music):
    Eno's Music for Airports helped pioneer this genre of slow, repetitive music with an "atmospheric" and calm quality. Composers like Ludovico Einaudi have popularized this genre.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Richter):
    This other ambient composer included clips of Tilda Swinton reading Kafka on his album The Blue Notebooks. Neuroscientist David Eagleman helped this composer create the eight-and-a-half-hour album Sleep.

[BM3] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2019, The Guardian reviewed this pianist's performance of his album Seven Days Walking at the Barbican Center and claimed that he was "as cliched and shameless as a Simon Cowell No. 1." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ludovico Einaudi ("ay-NOW-dee")):
    Name this Italian composer whose piece "Nuvole Bianche" ("noo-VOH-lay BYAHN-kay") has been featured in many films and TV shows. He accompanied his playing with synthesized sounds on his album Nightbook.
  Part 2 (ans: ambient music [accept Ambient 1: Music for Airports]):
    Many of Einaudi's compositions are considered part of this genre of slow and repetitive music meant to evoke or accompany particular backgrounds. Brian Eno's album Music for Airports is partly titled for this genre.
  Part 3 (ans: harp [or pedal harp]):
    Einaudi's second album, Stanze ("STAHNT-seh"), was written for Cecilia Chailly ("cheh-CHEEL-ya shy-EE"), a player of this instrument. Yolanda Kondonassis plays this large instrument with 7 pedals and 47 strings.

[BM4] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer recalled how Pitigrilli informed on her family to the Fascist government in a novel titled for her very odd family's colorful idioms, like "il bico del chilo del milo" [eel BEE-koh dell KEE-loh dell MEE-loh]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Natalia Ginzburg):
    Name this Italian author of Family Lexicon and The Little Virtues.
  Part 2 (ans: Levi [accept Natalia Levi; accept Carlo Levi; accept Primo Michele Levi]):
    This was Ginzburg's maiden name. It was also the surname of other Turin-born Jewish writers like Carlo, who wrote Christ Stopped at Eboli, and Primo, whose book If This Is a Man was declined by Ginzburg when she was an editor at Einaudi.
  Part 3 (ans: Faye [accept Faye Greener]):
    The introduction to a 2018 edition of The Little Virtues has an introduction by Rachel Cusk, whose Outline trilogy follows the daily encounters of a writer with this first name. Homer Simpson and Tod Hackett both fall in love with an aspiring actress with this name in Nathanael West's The Day of the
