=== STOCK CLUES: Sebald ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 29 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: W. G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald]
  - A character in a novel by this author repeatedly runs back a video tape to try to discern whether a woman in the background of the footage is his mother Agata, eventually asking his mother's former neighbor Vera. [PWR]
  - In the opening of that novel by this author, the narrator walks through the Nocturama of the Antwerp Zoo before images of the (*) eyes of two animals are juxtaposed with those of two men. [PWR]
  - The narrator of a novel by this author takes a walking tour of Suffolk and meditates on a series of subjects such as the skull and writings of Thomas Browne.
  - The title character of a novel by this author arrived in Wales as an infant via Kindertransport from Czechoslovakia.
  - For 10 points, name this German novelist of The Rings of Saturn and Austerlitz. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Franz Kafka [or "Dr. K Takes the Waters at Riva"] (The unnamed novel is Vertigo by W.G. Sebald.)
  - A chapter of a novel is titled for this author who "Takes the Waters at Riva," which is a reference to a story by this author in which the title hunter, who is already dead, describes wandering around on his boat to a burgomaster. [PWR]
  - In Illuminations, Walter Benjamin discusses a story by this non-Leskov author, which ends with a traveler observing a tablet beneath a table in a tea house. [PWR]
  - In a different story by this author, three bearded lodgers leave a house after encountering a character with an (*) apple lodged in his back. [PWR]
  - In that story by this author, the main character starts planning his death after his sister, Grete, suggests getting rid of him.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Hunter Gracchus" and "In the Penal Colony," who depicted the transformation of Gregor Samsa in "The Metamorphosis." [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: W. [accept Wertach im Allgau, which Sebald's Vertigo explicitly says is the identity of W] (W is pronounced sort of like "Double vie" = "Double life" in French.)
  - In a town with this name, a man sees an apparition of a uniformed figure in an attic, which turns out to be a tailor's dummy wearing a uniform that crumbles when a man touches it. [PWR]
  - A fictional society with this name is governed from a building called the "Fortress," where women are locked up and are periodically taken out so that men can compete to rape them. [PWR]
  - The autobiographical narrator takes a bus trip to a German village with this name for the first time since his childhood in "Il ritorno in patria," the last of the four interlinked narratives in W. [PWR]
  - G. [PWR]
  - Sebald's novel Vertigo.
  - (*) Gaspard Winckler travels to an island off the coast of Tierra del Fuego with this name, where boys are tortured to prepare them to run Olympic-like foot races, in an allegorical novel about concentration camps titled for this letter of the alphabet.
  - For 10 points, a George Perec novel subtitled "Memories of Childhood" is named for what letter of the alphabet, which puns on the French for "double life"? [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: W. G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald; accept the narrator of Vertigo [or Schwindel. Gefuhle] or narrator of The Rings of Saturn [or Die Ringe des Saturn] or narrator of Austerlitz; prompt on "Winfried" or "Georg" or "Max"]
  - In one novel, the symmetry of Fort Breendonk leads this person to imagine it as an "anatomical blueprint of some alien and crab-like creature." This person weirds out a family on a bus by asking for a photo of twins due to their resemblance to Franz Kafka, who stars in the book's next section, "Dr.
  - K Takes the Waters at Riva." In a third novel, this person reflects on Edward Fitzgerald's love for William Browne after leaving the house of his friend Michael Hamburger.
  - At the start of that novel, this person narrates his discharge from a hospital and speculates that Dr.
  - Tulp's anatomy lesson was witnessed by Thomas Browne.
  - Unnamed fictional versions of this author of Vertigo walk around Suffolk in one novel and befriend a man who grew up in Wales after being evacuated from Nazi Prague in another.
  - For 10 points, name this German author who used black-and-white photographs in his novels The Rings of Saturn and Austerlitz. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: photographs in the novels of Winfried Georg Sebald [accept "photographs from Austerlitz" or "photographs from The Rings of Saturn"]
  - One of these works depicts a Chinese quail running about in its cage. [PWR]
  - Daniel Blaufuks was inspired to write a book about Theresienstadt by one of these works which depicts a room full of shelves. [PWR]
  - James Wood noted that some of these works are "fictional twice over," contrasting one depicting a rugby team with one depicting the eyes of Wittgenstein. [PWR]
  - A series of these works which show the eyes of two animals and two humans were inspired by animals which the narrator saw at the Nocturama in Antwerp. [PWR]
  - These works, typically (*) uncaptioned, pepper novels like one about the life story of an architectural historian named Jacques.
  - For 10 points, name these images frequently used by the German author of The Rings of Saturn and Austerlitz. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This good titles a 1996 novel by Alessandro Baricco, in which smuggler Herve Joncour becomes smitten with an Edo-period concubine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: silk [accept silkworms; accept Bombyx mori; accept silk moths; accept Seta]):
    Name this good also peddled by the father of Sir Thomas Browne. They're not ashes, but a 1995 travelog with long asides about the production of this good contemplates why Browne said this good was found in the Urn of Patroclus.
  Part 2 (ans: W. G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald]):
    In this German author's semi-fictional travelog The Rings of Saturn, the narrator discusses the cultivation of silkworms while walking down the English coastline. This author also included photographs in his novel Austerlitz.
  Part 3 (ans: Queen Victoria [or Alexandrina Victoria]):
    The end of The Rings of Saturn dotes on the black silk robes worn by wealthy ladies at this woman's funeral. This royal showed a dying Charles Dickens her journals of visiting the Scottish Highlands with her husband Albert.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The first part of this novel, "Beyle, or Love is a Madness Most Discreet," describes the wanderings of a Napoleonic soldier who, though never revealed, is better known as the author Stendhal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vertigo [or Schwindel. Gefuhle.]):
    Name this novel, sometimes grouped in a trilogy with The Emigrants and The Rings of Saturn. In the fourth part of this novel, the narrator visits his hometown, "W," based on its author's hometown of Wertach.
  Part 2 (ans: W. G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald]):
    Vertigo, The Emigrants, and The Rings of Saturn are by this German author, who also wrote Austerlitz.
  Part 3 (ans: Franz Kafka ):
    The third part of Vertigo describes a period in the life of this author through the lens of his story "The Hunter Gracchus." This author, whom Sebald calls "Dr. K," also wrote "In the Penal Colony."

[B3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A book by an author with this surname ends with servants covering mirrors so that Abraham Anslo's soul can wander to "unimaginable worlds." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Herbert [accept George Herbert; accept Zbigniew Herbert]):
    Give this surname of the Polish author of Still Life with Bridle. He claimed to be a descendent of the English poet George, who included pattern poems like "Easter Wings" in The Temple.
  Part 2 (ans: The Rings of Saturn [or Die Ringe des Saturn: Eine englische Wallfahrt] (by W. G. Sebald)):
    This novel ends by interpolating the last sentence of Herbert's Still Life with Bridle. However, the narrator credits it to Thomas Browne, whose works are cited throughout this novel set in Suffolk.
  Part 3 (ans: Baruch Spinoza [or Benedictus de Spinoza; or Baruch Espinosa; or Bento de Spinosa]):
    This thinker's bed titles a piece in Still Life with Bridle about his legal battles. In Olga Tokarczuk's ("toh-KAR-chook's") Flights, this thinker's friend Philip reflects on his arguments while dissecting his own amputated leg.

[B4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Dunwich, a melancholy Suffolk port village that sank slowly but inexorably into the sea over the centuries, in the imaginations of various authors, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Henry James):
    In The English Hours, this author recalls fondly of Dunwich that "the minor key is struck here with a felicity that leaves no sigh to be breathed." This author wrote The Turn of the Screw after moving to Britain.
  Part 2 (ans: The Rings of Saturn [or Die Ringe des Saturn: Eine englische Wallfahrt] (by W. G. Sebald)):
    The narrator of this novel describes Dunwich as a city "dissolved into water, sand, and thin air," beneath a forlorn photo of the All Saints' Parish. This novel's unnamed narrator meets his friend Michael Hamburger in Middleton.
  Part 3 (ans: Algernon Swinburne):
    This chronically nervous poet found respite in the ruins of Dunwich, and took long walks along its cliffs, inspiring the poem By The North Sea. This Victorian poet wrote Atalanta in Calydon.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: John Hughes's novel The Dogs was removed from the longlist for Australia's Miles Franklin Prize after The Guardian discovered 58 instances of plagiarism from this author's book The Unwomanly Face of War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Svetlana Alexievich [or Svetlana Alexandrovna Alexievich]):
    Name this author and journalist who wrote oral histories like Zinky Boys and Voices from Chernobyl.
  Part 2 (ans: All Quiet on the Western Front [or Im Westen nichts Neues] (by Erich Maria Remarque)):
    Hughes took verbatim the description of a man who crawls "for a full half-mile on his hands, dragging his legs behind him" from this novel about Paul Baumer's ("BOY-mer's") harrowing experiences during World War I.
  Part 3 (ans: The Emigrants [or Die Ausgewanderten] (by W. G. Sebald)):
    Hughes also ripped off this 1992 novel about four Jewish men in exile, including the doctor and gardening enthusiast Henry Selwyn and the narrator's gay great-uncle Adelwarth.

[B6] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author describes "an endless graveyard for a humanity struck by falling sickness" in a quote that he attributes to The Garden of Cyrus by Thomas Browne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Winfried Georg Sebald [or Max Sebald]):
    Name this author who ruminates on a memorial at Waterloo, the iron bridge at Blyth, and Edward Fitzgerald's childhood home while on an "English Pilgrimage" in one novel.
  Part 2 (ans: photographs [prompt on pictures or images]):
    Sebald included one of these artworks depicting the Waterloo memorial with multiple vanishing points in The Rings of Saturn. The title of Don DeLillo's Falling Man references one of these visual artworks.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Holderlin [or Johann Christian Friedrich Holderlin]):
    While in Suffolk in The Rings of Saturn, Sebald connects with Michael Hamburger, a translator of this German author. The title Greecian hermit attempts to topple Turkish rule in this author's epistolary novel Hyperion.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's first published work was a long poem in turn focusing on Matthias Grunewald, Georg Steller, and the author themselves. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: W. G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald or Max Sebald]):
    Name this writer of the long poem After Nature. That poem's English translator, Michael Hamburger, appears in a 1995 novel by this author that includes reflections on Thomas Browne's skull and many black-and-white pictures in the narrative.
  Part 2 (ans: the Holocaust [or Shoah; prompt on World War II]):
    Sebald's poem "Somewhere behind Turkenfeld," like much of his prose, obliquely describes the aftermath of this historical event by alluding to the Dachau death camp.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Celan [or Paul Antschel]):
    Sebald's poetry is often compared to that of this earlier poet, who Michael Hamburger also translated. The line "Black milk of daybreak" is repeated in this poet's Holocaust poem "Death Fugue."

[B8] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright incorporated constant breaking of the fourth wall in a play about the prostitute Shen Te. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bertolt Brecht):
    Name this German playwright, whose essay 'On Chinese Acting' introduced the 'distancing effect' that they used in The Good Person of Szechuan. This author also wrote Mother Courage and Her Children.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Doblin):
    Brecht's interest in Chinese literature was partly sparked by this author's novel The Three Leaps of Wang Lun. This author described Franz Biberkopf's descent into the Weimar underworld in their best-known novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Winfried Georg 'Max' Sebald):
    This German author, who wrote their PhD thesis on Doblin, included anecdotes about a Chinese quail caged near Somerleyton and a Chinese train operating near Southwold in their novel The Rings of Saturn. This author also wrote Austerlitz.

[B9] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these modern German-language authors of philosophical novels:
  Part 1 (ans: Hermann Hesse ("HESS-uh")):
    The title character of this Swiss-German author's coming-of-age novel Siddharta pursues spiritual enlightenment throughout his journey to meet Gautama Buddha.
  Part 2 (ans: W. G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald; or Max Sebald]):
    Immanuel Kant and Henri Bergson's philosophies of time are interwoven throughout this German emigrant author's novels, such as Austerlitz and The Rings of Saturn.
  Part 3 (ans: Ernst Junger):
    This author described his philosophy of the inwardly-free Anarch in his novel Eumeswil ("OY-mesh-vil"), which is set in a post-apocalyptic Morocco ruled by a tyrant named The Condor. His memoir of World War II is titled Storm and Steel.

[B10] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Michael Hamburger, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Todesfugue" [accept "Death Fugue"] (by Paul Celan)):
    Hamburger translated this poem, which begins each of its four sections with "Black milk of daybreak." This poem is narrated by prisoners at a concentration camp, who are forced to dig their own graves by a Nazi.
  Part 2 (ans: German):
    Hamburger is today best known for translating works written in this language, whose authors include Paul Celan. Another author in this language, Friedrich Holderlin, wrote Hyperion and "The Ister."
  Part 3 (ans: W.G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald]):
    This author wrote about his encounter with Michael Hamburger in his The Rings of Saturn. This author's other novels include the lengthy Austerlitz.

[B11] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some German authors who were obsessed with history, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Christian Matthias) Theodor Mommsen):
    This man received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1902 for being "the greatest living master of the art of historical writing," as demonstrated by works like A History of Rome.
  Part 2 (ans: Gunter Wilhelm Grass):
    This other Nobel Laureate depicted the impact of events like the Nazi invasion of Poland and the Cold War on his hometown in the Danzig Trilogy, but was not exactly forthcoming about his own history as a member of the Waffen-SS.
  Part 3 (ans: Winfried Georg Sebald [accept Max Sebald]):
    The title character of this author's Austerlitz is an architectural historian who learns about his family's fate in the Holocaust, a search illustrated by enigmatic photographs, a technique this man also used in The Emigrants and Vertigo.

[B12] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer drew on the findings of the psychoanalyst William Niederland to argue that the "acute of fear of death" made Jean Amery's writing style ironic, so as to avoid "pity and self-pity," in his essay "Against the Irreversible." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: W.G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald]):
    Name this author who discussed the evasion of the past facilitated by before-and-after photographs, such as ones showing Frankfurt in 1947 and 1997, in his essay "Air War and Literature," collected in the volume On the Natural History of Destruction.
  Part 2 (ans: the Holocaust):
    In On the Natural History of Destruction, Sebald discusses the "inner emigration" of Germans who claimed to reject this event's ideological underpinnings, but did not leave the country because of it. Primo Levi's If This is a Man and Elie Wiesel's Night are accounts of survival during it.
  Part 3 (ans: Elias Canetti):
    This writer memorialized the diary of Hiroshima survivor Michihiko Hachiya in his similar collection The Conscience of Words & Ear Witness. Twenty-two years after fleeing Austria in the wake of the Anschluss, this writer examined how masses of people follow rulers in Crowds and Power.

[B13] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Three members of this group from Nuremberg, including Georg Pencz, were dubbed "godless painters" and imprisoned for promulgating the views of Thomas Muntzer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Little Masters [accept Kleinmeister]):
    Name this 16th-century group of engravers whose other leading lights included Heinrich Aldegrever and Albrecht Altdorfer. They got their name for their focus on producing detailed, postage stamp-sized prints.
  Part 2 (ans: Beham [accept (Hans) Sebald Beham or Barthel Beham]):
    The other two "godless painters" were two brothers, Barthel and Sebald, with this surname. Their works include Christ and the Sheep Shed and Death and the Standing Nude.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Pencz served in the atelier of this man, a major influence on the Little Masters. His own engravings include Knight, Death, and the Devil and Melencolia I.

[B14] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by this author is structured around the narrator's walking tour of Suffolk and discusses topics like Thomas Browne's skull and the history of silkworms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Winfried George Sebald):
    Name this author who interspersed black-and-white photographs throughout his novels, including one in which a man who was raised in Wales investigates his parents' fate in the Holocaust.
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Sebald was influenced by this writer, who briefly appears in his novel The Emigrants. This author wrote novels like Pnin and Lolita after leaving his native Russia.
  Part 3 (ans: Speak, Memory):
    The Emigrants contains a photograph of Nabokov with a butterfly net. Nabokov himself wrote about his hobby of lepidoptery in this memoir, which also describes his governess Mademoiselle O in its fifth chapter.

[B15] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This character gives a dazzling speech on the history of fortifcations in his frst appearance in Antwerp's Central Station, and the narrator later learns he is an art history professor obsessed with monumental public buildings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacques Austerlitz):
    Name this title character of a 2001 novel who was adopted by a Welsh minister's family, but goes to Prague to investigate his parents' fate under Nazi rule afer having an epiphany in the Ladies' Waiting Room of Liverpool Station.
  Part 2 (ans: Winfrid GeorgSebald):
    Jacques Austerlitz is the title character of a novel by this German author who is known for using black-and-white pho-tographs in his novels such as The Rings of Saturn and The Emigrants.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Thomas Browne):
    One notable part of The Rings of Saturn concerns searching for the skull of this 17th-century English writer in the medical museum of the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital.

[B16] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these twentieth-century German authors.
  Part 1 (ans: Erich Maria Remarque):
    This author of The Night in Lisbon wrote about boys such as Tjaden and Paul Baumer going to fight in the first World War in his novel All Quiet on the Western Front.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Boll):
    This author wrote about a woman who shoots the intrusive journalist Totges in The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum, but he is best known for a novel about the Faehmel family.
  Part 3 (ans: W.G. Sebald):
    This German is famous for incorporating photographs into the text of his novels, which include The Emigrants and Austerlitz.
