=== STOCK CLUES: Paul Signac ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Paul Signac [3]
  - A brown-and-white cat stands on a Persian rug in a painting by this artist in which a woman in violet stands at the window while her husband sits in a chair and tends an off-panel fire. [PWR]
  - A rooster, a hen, dancers under a tree, a painter with an easel, and bowlers appear in a work by this man showing people relaxing by the sea. [PWR]
  - This artist of Sunday and In the Time of Harmony criticized "muddy mixtures," echoing a Romantic painter's claim that "the enemy of all painting is grey." Another work by this man shows two women chatting as they fill green jugs with water from a seaside well.
  - Green-and-red ripples and yellow stars on blue make up two of the swirling (*) background sections of a portrait by this man showing an anarchist art critic holding a top hat and a white flower, showing his Divisionist style. [PWR]
  - This author of From Eugene Delacroix to Neo-Impressionism frequently depicted scenes at Saint Tropez.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of Portrait of Felix Feneon, a French Pointillist. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Henri Edmond Cross contrasted the "dreamed-of age of happiness and well-being" depicted in this painting with the "poignant misery" of other anarchist paintings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: In the Time of Harmony [or Au temps d'harmonie; or In the Time of Harmony: the Golden Age is not in the Past, it is in the Future; or In the Time of Harmony; the Golden Age is Not Passed, it is Still to Come (Reprise); or Au temps d'harmonie: L'age d'or n'est pas dans le passe, il est dans l'avenir (reprise)]):
    Name this painting subtitled "the Golden Age is not in the Past, it is in the Future." This painting's foreground depicts a man picking a fig from a tree, a woman feeding a fig to her child, and two men playing boules.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Signac ("seen-YAHK") [or Paul Victor Jules Signac]):
    This artist of In the Time of Harmony depicted the title art critic holding a cyclamen flower in front of a colorful, swirling background in his Portrait of Felix Feneon.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Seurat ("soo-RAH") [or Georges Pierre Seurat]):
    Paul Signac collaborated with this artist of Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte to develop pointillism.

[B2] 2018 MALA (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The best thing for a man is not to be born, and if already born, to die as soon as possible. Name some precursors to Fauvism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Gauguin):
    This cloisonnist artist's Vision after the Sermon influenced Fauvism with its solid colors and his later self-exile to Tahiti influenced primitivists like Henri Rousseau.
  Part 2 (ans: Luxe, Calme et Volupte (accept Luxury, Calm and Pleasure)):
    Matisse notably used Divisionist technique for this painting which he would abandon later, depicting several female nudes relaxing on a red beach, this painting is considered the starting point of Fauvism.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Signac):
    This man bought Luxury, Calm and Pleasure and along with Seurat this pointillist inspired Matisse to develop "color structure"; this artist's best known work depicts art critic Felix Feneon, holding a flower and top hat before heavy-swirling colors.

[B3] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Created while its artist was at Pont-Aven in Brittany, this work was inspired by the woodcuts of Hiroshige and Hokusai. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Vision After the Sermon):
    Name this work in which a group of French peasant women in black robes and white bonnets watch on as Jacob wrestles the angel in front of a vibrant red background.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Gauguin):
    Vision after the Sermon is a work by this French Post-impressionist artist of the Yellow Christ. This artist is also known for many colorful depictions of life in Tahiti.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Signac):
    In 1889, many Gauguin's works were debuted at the Volpini Exhibition, which deliberately barred works by neo-impressionists like this artist, who is best-known for his portrait of art critic Felix Feneon in front of a spiraling colorful background, and for developing pointillism with Georges Seurat.

[B4] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter was one of the jurors in charge of awarding the Prix Blumenthal, a grant given to young up-and-coming French artists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Signac [or Paul Victor Jules Signac]):
    Name this artist, who painted art critic Felix Feneon in front of a swirling background of different colors and patterns.
  Part 2 (ans: pointillism [prompt on Neo-Impressionism]):
    Signac was a practitioner of this technique, which uses smaller brushstrokes than the similar Divisionism. Georges Seurat utilized it in his A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of Le Grande Jatte.
  Part 3 (ans: Odilon Redon [or Bertrand-Jean Redon]):
    Along with Seurat and Signac, this French symbolist helped found the Salon des Independants. His works include Eye Balloon and a charcoal work depicting a giant floating head supported by a single wing, Guardian Spirit of the Waters.
