=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Paul Signac ===
(Questions where 'Paul Signac' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 9 found, 53 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Joy of Life [or Le bohnheur de vivre]
  - Paul Signac claimed that this painting's artist had "gone to the dogs" and criticized its "well-defined tint, which, however pure, seems disgusting," referring to bright yellows that are now fading due to the oxidation of cadmium sulfide.
  - This painting quotes Titian's The Andrians with the pose of a woman who appears to have lost her head because the head of the man kissing her is superimposed over it.
  - Landscape at Collioure is a study for this painting, whose artist installed it in Leo and Gertrude Stein's apartment right after they bought it at the (*) 1906 Salon des Independents.
  - This painting borrows its arched tree framing from Cezanne's Large Bathers.
  - It depicts a reclining nude playing two pipes in its foreground and quotes its artist's painting The Dance in the background.
  - For 10 points, name this colorful pastoral painting by Henri Matisse.

[TM2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: colors [accept shades of color, pigments, color mixing, or color theory; accept Theory of Colors or Zur Farbenlehre; accept color sphere or Farbenkreis; accept blue and rose; prompt on light or optics] (The Turner painting is Light and Colour (Goethe's Theory) - The Morning after the Deluge - Moses Writing the Book of Genesis.)
  - These things are the subject of a "sphere" used in modified form for Johannes Itten's Preliminary Course at the Bauhaus and designed by Philipp Otto Runge .
  - J.
  - M.
  - W.
  - Turner referenced an iconoclastic book about these things in the title of a painting that depicts the morning after the biblical flood.
  - A triangle with nine segments that demonstrate these things is often named for Goethe , who used symbolic labels like "unnecessary" in his Theory of them.
  - Charles Blanc's theories about these things "mixing" in the eye inspired Paul Signac  and Georges Seurat to develop Pointillism.
  - Harlequins and sad, lonely subjects respectively characterize two Picasso periods named for these things.
  - For 10 points, name this painting element described by value, saturation, and hue.

[TM3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Felix [accept Felix Feneon; accept Felix Vallotton or Felix Edouard Vallotton; accept Felix Bracquemond or Felix Henri Bracquemond]
  - A critic with this first name called for African and Oceanic art to be shown in museums in the 1920 article "Will they be admitted into the Louvre?" This was the first name of an engraver and Sevres  ceramicist who discovered prints of Hokusai's Manga in packing paper; that popularizer of Japonisme 
  - Eerie landscapes like The Ball and interiors titled Intimites  were painted by an artist with this first name nicknamed the "Foreign Nabi," who was known for woodcuts with large sections of uninterrupted black.
  - The term "Neo-Impressionism" was coined by a critic with this first name who holds a top hat and cyclamen  flower in front of swirling, colorful patterns in an 1890 portrait.
  - For 10 points, Paul Signac  painted a pointillist portrait of a goateed anarchist with what first name and the surname Feneon ?

[TM4] 2021 QB League Season 1 (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Eugene Delacroix
  - For the Chapel of Holy Angels at Saint-Sulpice, this artist painted a colourful mural of Jacob Wrestling the Angels.
  - This artist is the starting point of a theoretical treatise by Paul Signac about Neo-impressionism.
  - This artist was selected to accompany the diplomat Charles Mornay on a trip to North Africa, during which he painted a work that inspired a series of 15 paintings by Picasso.
  - The title king (*) reclines on his bed amidst a violent and chaotic scene in a painting by this artist of The Women of Algiers.
  - This painter of The Death of Sardanapalus showed an allegorical woman wearing a phrygian cap and raising a flag in his most famous work.
  - For 10 points, name this French painter of Liberty Leading the People.

[TM5] 2020 ART NOUVEAU Packets (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Felix Feneon
  - Eight thin vertical lines serve as hair in a comically-elongated caricature of this critic by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, now at the MoMA, and Felix Vallotton painted him bent over a desk "Editing La Revue Blanche." A 2019 Paris exhibition was dedicated to this critic and his "open-minded vision", ex
  - This critic reviewed the eighth and final (**)Impressionist showing in a 43-page booklet, where he opined that Impressionism was being replaced in importance by a certain style.
  - This critic is depicted in profile, holding a white flower against a (*) spiral, patterned background, in a very long-titled painting by a member of the group he supported, Paul Signac.
  - For 10 points, name this champion of the pointillists who coined the term "Neo-Impressionism".

[TM6] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Eugene Delacroix
  - This artist's mural of Jacob Wrestling the Angel in Saint-Sulpice makes use of their principle of distinguishing purples and greens; that principle is compared with the ideas of the Neo-Impressionists in a book by Paul Signac.
  - Artists surround a portrait of this artist in a Homage painting by Henri Fantin-Latour.
  - A man gnaws at the front of a boat containing two poets in one work by this artist.
  - Pablo Picasso made a series of fifteen drawings based on this artist's Women of Algiers in their Apartment.
  - A painting by this artist shows a boy brandishing two pistols standing next to a bare-chested Marianne who brandishes a French flag.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of Liberty Leading the People.

[TM7] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: art critics [prompt on things like writers]
  - One of these people is depicted with an unused monocle in a collage which uses a picture of a vacuum and a newspaper article showing a George Luks painting; that collage is by Arthur Dove.Gabriel von Max's most famous painting satirizes these people as monkeys.
  - In a collage, one of these people has a folded banknote behind his head and a playing card and a shoe on his forehead.
  - That collage is by Raoul (*) Hausmann.
  - In a Manet portrait, one of these people named Zacharie Astruc sits with his hand in his vest.
  - In another portrait, a member of this profession is shown in profile with his distinctive goatee and holds out a flower in front of a background of swirling colors.
  - That portrait is by Paul Signac.
  - For 10 points, name this profession of Felix Feneon.

[TM8] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Eugene Delacroix [or: Ferdinand Victor Eugene Delacroix]
  - This artist's dictum that the color gray is the enemy of painting is quoted in a book which traces the influence of his love of brilliant colors on the Neo-Impressionists.
  - That book was written by Paul Signac.
  - A vast dark hall with a long, brightly lit table is the setting for his painting of the assassination of the Bishop of Liege.
  - In May 2015, a Picasso painting inspired by one of (*) this artist's works set a new record for the most expensive artwork sold at auction.
  - That painting by this artist shows a black woman with her back to the viewer at the right while three women lounge on the ground next to a hookah.
  - This painter of Women of Algiers in Their Apartment is best known for painting a woman holding the tricolor flag.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of Liberty Leading the People.

[TM9] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henri-Emile-Benoit Matisse
  - This artist took the title of one painting from the refrain of Baudelaire's "Invitation to a Voyage," and that work is based on the landscape near Paul Signac's house.
  - This artist was working on a sculpture but accidentally broke it, which inspired him to paint that sculpture in a very angular form that he called Souvenir de Biskra.
  - This artist of Luxury, Serenity and Pleasure painted some (*) Blue Nudes as well as another work in which the tablecloth blends into the wallpaper behind a maid who is arranging fruits on a table for the title Dessert.
  - This artist included one of his own works in the yellow background of a multicolored scene filled with many nudes.For 10 points, name this artist of The Joy of Life and La Danse, the foremost painter of fauvism.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting was rejected by Les XX ("lay vahn") and features a man in a skull mask among a crowd of grotesque festival goers, many of whom represent real life or allegorical figures. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christ's Entry into Brussels in 1889 [accept Entry of Christ into Brussels or L'Entree du Christ a Bruxelles]):
    Name this painting in which the title figure rides on a donkey under a banner reading "Vive La Sociale."
  Part 2 (ans: Pointillism [or Pointillists]):
    The artist of Christ's Entry into Brussels, James Ensor, later split with Les XX over their adoption of this technique of using dots to create paintings pioneered by Georges Seurat ("zhorzh sir-AH") and Paul Signac ("see-NYAK").
  Part 3 (ans: mother [or mom; accept My Dead Mother or Whistler's Mother; prompt on family member or parent]):
    An odd Ensor still life depicts a series of bottles in front of a person with this relationship on a deathbed. A person with this relationship provides the common name to the painting Arrangement in Grey and Black No. 1.

[BM2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Henri Edmond Cross contrasted the "dreamed-of age of happiness and well-being" depicted in this painting with the "poignant misery" of other anarchist paintings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: In the Time of Harmony [or Au temps d'harmonie; or In the Time of Harmony: the Golden Age is not in the Past, it is in the Future; or In the Time of Harmony; the Golden Age is Not Passed, it is Still to Come (Reprise); or Au temps d'harmonie: L'age d'or n'est pas dans le passe, il est dans l'avenir (reprise)]):
    Name this painting subtitled "the Golden Age is not in the Past, it is in the Future." This painting's foreground depicts a man picking a fig from a tree, a woman feeding a fig to her child, and two men playing boules.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Signac ("seen-YAHK") [or Paul Victor Jules Signac]):
    This artist of In the Time of Harmony depicted the title art critic holding a cyclamen flower in front of a colorful, swirling background in his Portrait of Felix Feneon.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Seurat ("soo-RAH") [or Georges Pierre Seurat]):
    Paul Signac collaborated with this artist of Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte to develop pointillism.

[BM3] 2022 Boilermaker Spring Novice (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: According to fellow artist Paul Signac, ("sin-yock"), this artist created "the most beautiful painter's drawings in existence." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Seurat [or Georges Pierre Seurat]):
    Name this French artist who, along with Signac, developed a branch of impressionism that did not mix paints, instead laying down colors in small discrete dots.
  Part 2 (ans: (conte) crayons [accept wax pastels]):
    Seurat's ("sirrah's") sketches were mostly done with graphite conte sticks. Conte sticks are a type of these drawing instruments, which are made from colored wax by brands like Crayola.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres (pronounced "ANG-gruh")):
    One of Seurat's noted sketches is titled The Hand of Poussin, ("poo-san"), After [this artist], which was based on this French Neoclassicist's intricate painting of The Apotheosis of Homer.

[BM4] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After the assassination of French President Sadi Carnot in 1894, this art critic was arrested in what became known as the Trial of the Thirty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Felix Feneon):
    Name this critic. In a profile portrait set against a colorful swirling background, he is depicted with his distinctive goatee as he holds out a white flower.
  Part 2 (ans: pointillism [accept word forms like pointillist]):
    Portrait of Felix Feneon was created by Paul Signac using this painting style. This style, which fills the canvas with dots, was used to create Georges Seurat's massive Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.
  Part 3 (ans: Bathers at Asnieres [or Une Baignade, Asnieres]):
    This other painting by Seurat depicts several men along a bank of the Seine River, including a seated figure wearing red swimming trunks and one in the water with a red cap.

[BM5] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Paul Signac ("sin-YAHK") titled a book after the Dutch landscape painter Johan Jongkind, who influenced a painter in this town named Louis Eugene Boudin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Havre ("AHV")):
    Name this hometown where an artist started out by selling caricatures for twenty francs. At an exhibition at the former studio of the photographer Nadar, a painting of this town was unfavorably compared to unfinished wallpaper.
  Part 2 (ans: Impressionism [or Impression, Sunrise; or Impression, soleil levant]):
    That painting of Le Havre's harbor by Claude Monet lends its name to this artistic movement that aimed to depict fleeting changes in light and color.
  Part 3 (ans: en plein air):
    Boudin taught Monet to paint in this manner, which was made easier by the box easel and pochade box. This technique of painting outdoors has a two or three-word French name.

[BM6] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This critic coined the term tachisme, although it wasn't used regularly until about sixty years later when Pierre Gueguen applied it to French post-war abstract art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Felix Feneon):
    Name this art critic. This critic holds a cane, a top hat, and a white flower in front of a colorful, swirling background in a portrait by Paul Signac.
  Part 2 (ans: pointillism):
    Feneon used the term "Neo-Impressionism" to refer to the art of Signac and Seurat, who used this style of brushwork in which single dots of color were added to the canvas one mark at a time.
  Part 3 (ans: Michel Eugene Chevreul):
    The division of color achieved via pointillist brushwork was a Neo-Impressionism technique based on the color theory of this French chemist. The Delaunays' paintings of abstract patches of color were inspired by this chemist's theory of "simultaneous contrast."

[BM7] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A church in this city known to seamen as "The Good Mother" can be seen across the water in a pointillist work by Paul Signac. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marseilles):
    Another painting shows a woman walking down a gang plank in this city, as, below her, Poseidon, Triton, and three Nereids emerge from the sea.
  Part 2 (ans: Marie de' Medici (prompt on Marie)):
    That painting, Disembarkation at Marseilles, was included in a 24-painting cycle created for the Luxembourg Palace and dedicated to this figure. Jupiter and Hera watch on as a portrait of this figure is held up to the King in another painting in the series.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens):
    This Flemish Baroque artist, fond of painting plump nudes, created the Marie de' Medici Cycle.

[BM8] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the later career of Henri Matisse, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred H. Barr, Jr.):
    Three years before he died, Matisse became the first Modern artist to be the subject of a major biography, which was written by this art critic. He had previously organized a Matisse retrospective as the first director of the MoMA.
  Part 2 (ans: Luxe, Calme et Volupte ("LUKES calm ay vaw-lewp-TAY") [accept Luxury, Calm, and Pleasure]):
    Before Barr's book, this 1904 Matisse painting was almost unknown. This brightly-colored painting of bathing nudes, which uses Paul Signac's post-pointillist "divisionist" technique, is considered the beginning of Fauvism.
  Part 3 (ans: stained glass):
    While being interviewed for Barr's book, Matisse was designing works in this medium for his chapel in Vence ("vawnss"). In the Middle Ages, works in this medium allowed people to learn religious stories by just looking at the windows.

[BM9] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He collected his musings in Novels in Three Lines and was a defendant in the Trial of the Thirty, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Felix Feneon):
    Name this French art critic who championed the Neo-Impressionist movement. Paul Signac's Opus 217: Against the Enamel of a Background Rhythmic with Beats and Angles, Tones, and Tints depicts this man's goatee and shows him carrying a tophat and cane and extending a flower.
  Part 2 (ans: Maximilien (-Jules-Constant) Luce):
    Another defendant in the Trial of the Thirty was this artist who painted Feneon "at Manzas". His other works include The Quai Saint-Michel and Notre-Dame and The Execution of Varlin.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges (-Pierre) Seurat):
    Feneon most notably promoted the work of this artist who painted Bathers at Asnieres and depicted his most famous work hanging on the wall in The Models.

[BM10] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sailboats can be seen in the background of several of this man's paintings, including Capo di Noli and Women at the Well. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Victor Jules Signac):
    Name this French artist who depicted art critic Felix Feneon, the coiner of the term "neo-impressionism", holding a top hat in one hand and a flower in the other in front of a heavily-stippled swirl of colors.
  Part 2 (ans: pointillism [or word forms; prompt on "neo-impressionism" or "divisionism"]):
    Paul Signac used this style of small, distinct dots in many of his works. George Seurat, a pioneer of this style, used it for his Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte.
  Part 3 (ans: Asnieres-sur-Seine):
    Seurat's most famous non-pointillist work is a painting in which a bowler-hatted man and several partially-clothed youths hang out on or near a riverbank, titled for "Bathers at" this location on the Seine in suburban Paris.

[BM11] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting, now housed in the MoMA, shows a man with a goatee who holds both a top hat and a flower. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Portrait of Felix Feneon):
    Name this painting, where the title figure stands in front of several fields of color that spiral out from the center.
  Part 2 (ans: pointillism):
    Paul Signac, the painter of Portrait of Felix Feneon, helped start this art movement, along with Georges Seurat. It uses several small dots of color that together form an image.
  Part 3 (ans: Bathers at Asnieres [accept Une Baignade, Asnieres]):
    This painting by Seurat shows several men reclining along the banks of a river, including one who wears only red trunks and another with a red hat on his head.

[BM12] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Most figures in this painting, such as a woman with a monkey at her feet, hold parasols aloft and face left towards the river. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte [accept either underlined portion; accept Un dimanche apres-midi a l'Ile de la Grande Jatte]):
    Identify this painting, the masterpiece of Georges Seurat.
  Part 2 (ans: Bathers at Asnieres [or Une Baignade, Asnieres]):
    A boy in a red cap stands in the water opposite the Island of La Grande Jatte in this other Seurat painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Felix Feneon):
    Seurat's fellow pointillist Paul Signac painted a notable portrait of this French art critic, who coined the term "neo-impressionism" for Seurat and Signac's work.

[BM13] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A woman in red holding an umbrella and a little girl in white walk toward the viewer in this painting. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte):
    Name this painting that depicts several people lounging on a grassy field next to a waterway. Among the figures depicted are a woman holding a monkey on a leash.
  Part 2 (ans: pointillism):
    Georges Seurat's Sunday Afternoon is a classic example of this form of painting, in which tiny monochromatic dots appear to merge together to form an image.
  Part 3 (ans: Felix Feneon):
    Another famous pointillist painting is Paul Signac's portrait of this art critic, who is depicted holding a cane and top hat in front of a swirling background.

[BM14] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Three nude women, including one who is putting on green socks, stand in front of this painting in the artist's later work, The Models. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte [or Un dimanche apres-midi a l'Ile de la Grande Jatte; or A Sunday Afternoon at the Isle of La Grande Jatte]):
    Identify this painting by a contemporary of Paul Signac whose figures include a man playing a trumpet and four men in white rowing a boat. A man smokes a pipe in the foreground of this work.
  Part 2 (ans: Pointillism [or Divisionism; prompt on "Neo-Impressionism"]):
    Georges Seurat's A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte was painted in this style, which composes images from small dots of pure color.
  Part 3 (ans: Yellow [or jaune]):
    It's not green, but Paul Signac created a pointillist seascape titled for a sail with this color. Van Gogh and Gauguin spent time together in a house of this color on the Place Lamartine, with Van Gogh decorating it with his sunflower paintings.

[BM15] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man gained prominence after defending J.M.W. Turner in his Modern Painters, and this man was once married to Effie Gray, who later married John Everett Millais. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ruskin):
    Name this art critic who was sued for libel after he compared Whistler's Nocturne in Black and Gold to a pot of paint flung into the public's face.
  Part 2 (ans: Felix Feneon):
    This anarchist art critic is shown holding a flower in one hand and a top-hat and cane in the other in front of a spiraling, multicolored background in a portrait by Paul Signac. This critic coined the term "neo-impressionism."
  Part 3 (ans: Roger Fry):
    This member of the Bloomsbury group coined the term "post-impressionism" when he opened the "Manet and the Post-Impressionists at the Grafton Galleries" exhibition. He founded the "Omega Workshops."

[BM16] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted three title figures disrobing next to umbrellas and sun hats as his most famous painting hangs on the wall in The Models. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Georges Seurat):
    Name this friend of Paul Signac and pointillist master of works like The Bathers at Asnieres.
  Part 2 (ans: the Barnes foundation):
    Seurat's The Models is part of the collection belonging to this foundation. Its rich trove of 19th century French paintings includes Van Gogh's The Smoker and Courbet's Woman with White Stockings and was the subject of a 2010 documentary by Don Argott.
  Part 3 (ans: Odilon Redon):
    The Barnes foundation also contains this French painter's St. George and the Dragon. He is best known for painting the title figure emerging over a hill in The Cyclops.
