=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Jenny Saville ===
(Questions where 'Jenny Saville' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: nudes [accept female nudes or nude women, prompting on women or females; accept La maja desnuda]
  - This artistic subject is explored in a discussion of Matrix by Jenny Saville in a critical work by Linda Nochlin.
  - The episode of Ways of Seeing that discusses this artistic subject begins by describing some people who have been raised to constantly think of seeing themselves.
  - In an essay by Nochlin, chapters on this artistic subject alternate with chapters focusing on nature; that essay states on this subject that paintings should also be critically assessed by taking their effect on the viewer into account.
  - A Spanish painter created a setup in which a pulley was used to (*) reveal a painting of this kind of artistic subject by lifting up another.
  - Kenneth Clark called the Kritios Boy the first beautiful one of these things in a book that he wrote about them subtitled "A Study in Ideal Form." For 10 points, name this artistic subject, an example of which is one of Goya's Majas.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Fiona Rae and Sarah Lucas were included in this movement's 1988 exhibit Freeze. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Young British Artists [or YBAs; or Britartists]):
    Name this art movement opposed by Billy Childish, a painter whose name appears appliqued onto a blue tent in an artwork depicting everyone an artist from this movement had slept with.
  Part 2 (ans: Damien Hirst [or Damien Steven Hirst]):
    Several YBA artists met at the Freeze exhibition curated by this artist, who began burning thousands of his polka dot paintings in 2022 in an NFT project. This artist preserved a shark in formaldehyde.
  Part 3 (ans: nudes [accept nude paintings or nude portraits; prompt on paintings of naked people or paintings of unclothed people; prompt on portraits]):
    The YBA Jenny Saville is known for her large depictions of obese women in this genre. The Guerilla Girls protested paintings at the Met in this genre, which overwhelmingly depict women without any clothes.

[BM2] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist carved a mirror-written text by Luce Irigaray directly into the paint of a 7-by-6-foot 1992 self-portrait. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jenny Saville):
    Name this artist whose painting Propped depicts a large nude woman perched atop a wooden post.
  Part 2 (ans: benefits supervisor [prompt on partial answer]):
    Jenny Saville's fascination with nude obese women has often been likened to Lucien Freud, who painted "Big Sue" Tilley in a 1995 portrait titled for a person with this job Sleeping.
  Part 3 (ans: Young British Artists [or YBA]):
    Along with Rachel Whiteread and Tracey Emin, Saville is a member of this group of contemporary artists, who were featured in Charles Saatchi's 1997 exhibit Sensation.

[BM3] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Yuan Chai and Jian Jun Xi jumped onto one of this artist's works to "improve" it as a piece of performance art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tracy Emin):
    Name this artist, who recreated a period of depression by showing a piece with messy everyday objects, My Bed. She also embroidered a tent with the names of her sexual partners in Everyone I Have Ever Slept With.
  Part 2 (ans: Great Britain [or the United Kingdom or England]):
    Tracy Emin, along with Jenny Saville and Sarah Lucas, is an example of a "Young Artist" from this country. The creator of the diamond skull "For the Love of God," Damien Hirst, also hails from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Michael Landy):
    This other member of the Young British Artists is known for his critiques of various consumerist practices. His piece Market is an installation of numerous shop stalls, while he destroyed everything he owned in 2001 for his performance piece Break Down.
