=== STOCK CLUES: Heraclitus ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 71 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Four Quartets [accept answers naming ALL FOUR of Burnt Norton, East Coker, The Dry Salvages and Little Gidding; prompt on partial answer by asking "what group of poems is that part of?"; prompt on Collected Poems 1909-1935 by asking "what is the name of the specific group of poems clued in the question?"] (The thinker in the second line is Heraclitus.)
  - One poem within this collection of poems describes the "flame of incandescent terror / Of which the tongues declare / The one discharge from sin and error". [PWR]
  - An epigraph to another of these poems quotes an ancient thinker in stating "many live as if they have wisdom of their own".
  - Another of these poems describes how "Houses rise and fall, crumble, are extended".
  - One of these poems describes a "sullen, untamed and intractable" entity after stating "I think that the (*) river / Is a strong brown god", while another is echoed in a plaque dedicated to its author that states "in my beginning is my end".
  - The first of these poems, named for a manor house in the Cotswolds, opens by speaking of "Time present and time past".
  - For 10 points, name this series of T. [GIVE]
  - S.
  - Eliot poems which includes Burnt Norton and Little Gidding.

[T2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus of Ephesus
  - This philosopher's statement that "eternity is a child playing at the table" appears in a text likening him to Orpheus, the Derveni Papyrus.
  - Hegel's Lectures on the History of Philosophy claims that this thinker should be considered the teacher of both Hippocrates and Plato.
  - A radical student of this thinker advocates for people to communicate with finger wags in his namesake Platonic dialogue, Cratylus. [PWR]
  - This philosopher used the example of the tension in a (*) lyre or a bowstring to illustrate his "unity of opposites." This so-called "weeping philosopher" believed that the other elements derived from fire. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this philosopher from Ephesus, whose doctrine that the universe is always in flux is often illustrated with the statement that "no man ever steps into the same river twice." [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus 
  - This thinker describes a drunk man as being "led along, stumbling, by a beardless boy" while his soul is moist.
  - According to Diogenes Laertius, this thinker hoped that familiarity would "breed contempt" when he deposited his writings at a temple of Artemis.
  - A book by Shimon Malin is titled for this thinker's claim that "nature loves to hide."It's not Empedocles, but this thinker wrote of fire transforming to water transforming to earth in his "downward path," and championed the unity of strife and justice.
  - Often given the epithet "the obscure" for his self-contradictory statements, this pre-Socratic philosopher from Ephesus promoted the idea of ekpyrosis , or cycles of conflagration and fire.
  - For 10 points, name this "weeping" philosopher, who declared "all things flow" and that one cannot step in the same river twice. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Answer: you cannot step in the same river twice [accept equivalent descriptions that mention the inability to enter the same river twice or that a river is never the same twice; accept panta rhei or everything flows until read; prompt on Heraclitus's doctrine of flux] (Cratylus amended Heraclitus's claim to "you cannot step in the same river even once.")
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - In "A New Refutation of Time," Jorge Luis Borges praises this statement's "dialectical skill" while discussing the memories conjured by his walks around his neighborhood.
  - In the final paragraph of Fear and Trembling, Soren Kierkegaard uses this statement and a later refinement of it to illustrate the philosophical impulse to "go further." Jonathan Barnes stated his preference among Diels and Kranz's three renderings of this statement by citing its originator's similar passage about an emulsified drink disintegrating. [PWR]
  - This statement was strengthened to a seemingly (*) nonsensical version by a radical disciple of its originator named Cratylus. [PWR]
  - This statement is the best-known illustration of a "weeping philosopher's" view that panta rhei, or "everything flows," as well as his doctrine of flux.
  - For 10 points, name this aphorism attributed to Heraclitus about entry into a body of water. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus of Ephesus
  - This thinker, who described people who observe the world around them but do not understand it as having "barbarian souls," also said that "lightning steers the universe." Hegel dated philosophy's origin to this thinker, whom Heidegger's Introduction to Metaphysics interprets as a predecessor to Christianity's "revealed truth" while discussing this thinker alongside Parmenides.
  - This philosopher's statement that "the way up and the way down are one and the same" exemplifies the "unity of opposites".
  - This philosopher believed in a universal "reason" that he dubbed logos.
  - This philosopher's advice to have a "dry" soul follows from his belief that fire was the fundamental element.
  - For 10 points, name this Ephesian Pre-Socratic whose conception of flux is summarized in his statement that one cannot step into the same river twice. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus of Ephesus (The Bataille piece is "Heraclitean Meditation," and Cratylus infamously said you can't step in the same river once.)
  - A text titled for this philosopher that states "I imagine the gift of infinite suffering" was the last in the sequence "The Practice of Joy Before Death," published in Acephale. [PWR]
  - That piece, which begins "I myself am War," is a "Meditation" titled for this philosopher by Georges Bataille .
  - M. [PWR]
  - M. [PWR]
  - McCabe challenged the received understanding of this philosopher's line about an emulsified beverage, arguing that it parallels this philosopher's statement that sea water is good for fish but poisonous to humans. [PWR]
  - This thinker's disciple (*) Cratylus proposed a more extreme version of one of his aphorisms.
  - This is the first known thinker to use the word logos for a general organizing principle.
  - This thinker's observation that the road up is the same as the road down illustrates his idea of the unity of opposites.
  - For 10 points, name this pre-Socratic philosopher who illustrated his focus on constant change by saying that you cannot step in the same river twice. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus
  - Hermann Diels developed an influential system for organizing this thinkers works based upon the author citing him.
  - Book 9 of Lives of the Eminent Philosophers begins with a biography of this thinker, and claims that he once fled society to live alone in the mountains.
  - This thinker said that Homer should have been "beaten with a staff," and also wrote that "war is common" and "strife is justice." This philosopher argued that "all things are in accordance with logos," but humans cannot understand it.
  - Lines like "The name of the bow is life; its work is death" display his "unity of opposites", and, in a Platonic dialogue named for his student, Socrates discusses his saying that one cannot step in the same river twice.
  - For 10 points, name this Greek philosopher who believed the world was in constant flux and made from fire. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus of Ephesus [or Herakleitos ho Ephesios]
  - This thinker is said to have been thinking of the "play of the great world-child" when watching the "games of noisy children" in a later thinker's essay "On the Pathos of Truth." A discussion held in 1966 begins by scrutinizing this thinker's remark that "lightning steers the universe." In History of Philosophy, G.
  - W.
  - F.
  - Hegel states of this philosopher "here we see land; there is no proposition of [his] which I have not adopted in my Logic." In Twilight of the Idols, Friedrich Nietzsche wrote that this thinker will remain "eternally right" for "declaring that Being was an empty illusion" and embracing "becoming." Martin Heidegger delivered a seminar on this thinker's principle of logos and, in a dialogue with Eugen Fink, discussed this philosopher's theory of the unity of opposites, which is exemplified by his claim that the "road up" is the "road down." For 10 points, name this philosopher whose doctrine of flux is exemplified by his assertion that you cannot step into the same river twice. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus of Ephesus
  - In one dialogue, Socrates says this thinker's ideas imply that changes in an object's qualities only reflect changes in the perception of that object. [PWR]
  - That statement, known as the dice paradox, appears in a dialogue which discusses both this thinker and Protagoras. [PWR]
  - This philosopher, who appears in Theaetetus, used the example of how "the same thing in us are living and dead, waking and sleeping, young and old," to illustrate the concept of (*) conflicting harmony. [PWR]
  - Diogenes Laertius called this thinker "the weeping philosopher," and contrasted him with Democritus.
  - To explain his concept of constant flux, this thinker said that "everything flows." For 10 points, name this pre-Socratic philosopher, who said fire was the fundamental element of the universe and a person can't step into the same river twice. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus of Ephesus
  - In a work titled for one of this philosopher's disciples, that disciple's belief that names capture the nature of their referents is opposed to the conventional theory of names argued by Hermogenes.
  - Two of this philosopher's maxims claim that nature loves to hide its meanings and that a man's character is his destiny.
  - This teacher of Cratylus was the subject of a University of Freiburg seminar by Eugen Fink and Martin Heidegger, which discussed his example of the "unity of opposites" through the bow and the lyre.
  - This philosopher believed that fire is the fundamental element and that everything is in flux, and first suggested that the governing principle of the world is logos.
  - For 10 points, name this pre-Socratic Greek philosopher who stated that one could not step into the same river twice. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus of Ephesus [or Herakleitos]
  - Friedrich Nietzsche, in Ecce Homo, wrote that he feels "warmest" in proximity to this philosopher, because this philosopher affirms the need for destruction.
  - Hegel, in his Lectures on the History of Philosophy, claims that his own logic adapts all the thought of this man, who proposed a cosmic "downward path" and "upward path." A finger-wagging follower of this man discusses the nature of words in Plato's dialogue Cratylus.
  - This man's term aletheia was glossed as "disclosure" of truth by Martin Heidegger.
  - This native of Ephesus discussed the attunement of the bow and lyre, and posited a unity of opposites.
  - His belief in nature as "flux" might explain his adage that you can't step in the same river twice.
  - For 10 points, name this pre-Socratic who said all things come from and return to fire. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus
  - In the Platonic dialogue named after a disciple of this man, the title character renounces speech in favor of finger wagging because he's convinced words aren't reliable; that disciple was Cratylus.
  - This Greek philosopher was a strong proponent of dialectical monism, partially due to his belief that up and down were the same.
  - This man was characterized by some of his contemporaries as "the weeping philosopher." This philosopher considered fire to be the most fundamental element.
  - He was the first philosopher to deal seriously with the concept of logos, and his philosophy of change can be summed up by the aphorism panta rhei, or "everything flows." For 10 points, who is this Greek philosopher who is perhaps best known for saying that a man can't step in the same river twice? [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Heraclitus
  - Plato records Socrates arguing that the ones who first named Cronos and Rhea the ancestors of the gods must have agreed with the doctrines of this thinker. [PWR]
  - That conversation is recorded in the Cratylus, while the Theatetus argues that this thinker's major idea renders knowledge through perception impossible. [PWR]
  - This thinker offered the example of the sea being "the purest (*) and most polluted water," to illustrate his doctrine of the unity of opposites, a consequence of this philosopher's theory of the universal principle he called logos. [PWR]
  - This man's work survives only in fragments and his most notable dictum may be a misquote of a fragment which states "Upon those who step into the same rivers, different and again different waters flow." For 10 points, identify this ancient Greek thinker who held who held that the world was in a state of constant flux. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Answer the following about philosophy in Mexico, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: liberation [or liberty; or freedom; or liberacion; accept liberation theology]):
    Mexican philosopher Enrique Dussel is considered an advocate of the "philsosphy" of this concept and wrote a book titled for it. It also names a liberal Catholic "theology" that is popular in Latin America.
  Part 2 (ans: Heraclitus [or Herakleitos]):
    Octavio Paz's book The Bow and the Lyre is titled for an analogy that this earlier philosopher used to describe the "unity of opposites."
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Vasconcelos):
    This philosopher, known as the "cultural caudillo" of the Mexican Revolution, described how all peoples of the world could aggregate their advantages into a "Universopolis" in the book The Cosmic Race.

[B2] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Greek or English answers are acceptable. In Book 7 of Republic, Socrates groups "opinion" and "imagination" into "belief," which is concerned with one of these states, and groups "thought" and "knowledge" into "understanding," which is concerned with the other. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: becoming AND being [accept genesis or coming-to-be or gignomenon for "becoming"; accept ousia for "being"; prompt on changing for "becoming"]):
    Name these two states. Perceptible things in the visible world are in one of these two states, while mathematical objects and Forms in the intelligible world are in the other.
  Part 2 (ans: Heraclitus of Ephesus):
    Although Socrates believed that perceptible things were always becoming, he critiqued this philosopher's follower Cratylus for believing that the whole world was in flux. Cratylus built on this philosopher by claiming that you can't step in the same river once.
  Part 3 (ans: Man is the measure of all things [or panton khrematon anthropon metron einai; accept similar translations like of all things Man is the measure or of all things the measure is Man]):
    Socrates argued that Cratylus' theory of flux derives from this statement, which he also claimed is equivalent to Theaetetus' definition of knowledge. This statement was Protagoras' catchphrase.

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: The author of the Derveni Papyrus is believed to have drawn from this philosopher in describing the Furies as "allies of Justice" and referencing how divine things "escape recognition" due to disbelief. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heraclitus of Ephesus):
    Name this pre-Socratic Greek thinker, dubbed the "weeping philosopher," who claimed fire was the fundamental substance of the universe.
  Part 2 (ans: Symposium):
    The Derveni Papyrus's exhortation to the uninitiated to "close the doors" is a traditional Orphic phrase also referenced by Alcibiades while discussing love in this Platonic dialogue named for a drinking party.
  Part 3 (ans: nous("noose") [or intellect; or mind; prompt on intelligence or mental]):
    The representation of divinity as this concept in the Derveni Papyrus is believed to be drawn from Anaxagoras, who claimed that this concept set a mixture of the ingredients of the cosmos into motion.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Philo of Alexandria used this word to define beings who served as intermediaries between God and the material world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: logos):
    Name this word that designates a "fact-based" appeal separate from ethos and pathos in Aristotle's Rhetoric.
  Part 2 (ans: stoicism):
    Logos spermatikos is the supreme creative force in this philosophical school, which believes virtue is sufficient for happiness. Adherents of this philosophical school included Seneca and Marcus Aurelius.
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus):
    This pre-Socratic philosopher, nicknamed the "weeping philosopher," claimed that logos is the governing principle of the world. This philosopher propounded the view that the universe is in a state of constant flux.

[B5] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Douglas C. Whalin has argued that the phrase "Deus adiuta Romanis" or "God, help the Romans" on this emperor's hexagram coins signals defiance rather than stress and despair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heraclius [or Heraclius I, or Herakleios; do NOT accept or prompt on "Heraclitus"]):
    Name this 7th-century Eastern Roman Emperor who fought a protracted war with the Sassanids and was later defeated by Arab forces at Yarmouk.
  Part 2 (ans: Umayyad caliph [or khalifa; accept Umayyad Caliphate; accept Standing Caliph]):
    The hexagram was rarely struck by the time of Justinian II, whose "Rex Regnantium" coins may have led ʿAbd al-Malik to briefly mint coins with a "standing" holder of this title. Umayyad leaders of the Islamic world held this title.
  Part 3 (ans: Amorium [or Amorion]):
    Although he minted follis coins celebrating victories over the Arabs, the reign of Theophilos also saw the sack of this capital of the Anatolikon theme, which discredited his iconoclastic policies.

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Work of Revision, Hannah Sullivan states that this poem's aim was to trace "the poet's vocation, not his whole life," and notes how it was revised over 50 years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prelude (by William Wordsworth)):
    Name this long autobiographical poem that provides the title of Sullivan's 2023 collection Was It For This. In its first book, the narrator takes an "elfin" boat out onto a lake and is overwhelmed by a distant peak.
  Part 2 (ans: "Howl"):
    Sullivan's The Work of Revision analyzes Allen Ginsberg's release of an "Original Draft Facsimile" of this poem 30 years after its publication. Its second section describes the idol Moloch.
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus [or Heraclitus of Ephesus or Herakleitos; accept "That Nature Is a Heraclitean Fire and of the Comfort of the Resurrection" or "Repeat Until Time: The Heraclitus Poem"]):
    Sullivan's poem "Repeat Until Time" is subtitled for this man. A Gerard Manley Hopkins poem whose title uses this man's name as an adjective ends by stating that "this Jack" is "immortal diamond."

[B7] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Australian philosopher Val Plumwood, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: deep ecology [prompt on ecosophy or ecophilosophy or ecological wisdom]):
    In her paper "Nature, Self, and Gender" Plumwood argues that a view named for what field fails to correctly dissolve the "discontinuity thesis?" Arne Næss ("AR-nuh NESS") coined the name of a "deep" variant of this field.
  Part 2 (ans: feminism [accept ecofeminism]):
    Plumwood criticized philosophy's male-centered past as part of her work in the "eco-" variant of this movement, which opposes the patriarchy.
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus of Ephesus [accept Heraclitean universe]):
    In 1985, Plumwood was nearly killed by a crocodile, leading to her adoption of a view of the food chain that she named in homage to this presocratic philosopher's statement that "everything flows."

[B8] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Answer the following about the different explanations of the arche, translated as "beginning" or "origin," in ancient Greek philosophy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heraclitus):
    This ancient Greek thinker believed the arche was made of fire. The statement "no man ever steps in the same river twice" is attributed to this philosopher.
  Part 2 (ans: Anaximenes):
    This philosopher argued that the arche caused the condensing and rarefying of matter. This last thinker of the Milesian school also argued that Earth was a floating flat disk.
  Part 3 (ans: Parmenides of Elea):
    Modern scholars favor the interpretation that the arche of the pre-Socratics is different than the reality it governs, which informed this thinker's idea that change is only an appearance of the senses in his poetic work On Nature.

[B9] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This author's best-known workis addressed to an "enthusiastic Platonist" and divides its subject matter into Ionian and Italian schools. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Diogenes Laertius [prompt on partial answer; do not accept or prompt on others named Diogenes]):
    Name this author whose Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers is one of the main surviving sources for the ideas of Chrysippus and other Stoics.
  Part 2 (ans: chickens [accept fowls or equivalents; or alektryona]):
    Another Diogenes, a Cynic philosopher from Sinope, is said to have brought a plucked one of these birds into Plato's Academy to refute his definition of man as a "featherless biped."
  Part 3 (ans: air [or mist or vapor] (Thales thought the arche was water; Heraclitus thought it was fire.)):
    Diogenes of Apollonia held that this member of the four elements is the arche, or the source of all being. Unlike Thales and Heraclitus, Anaximenes also believed that this element is the arche.

[B10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This thinker's claim that 'lightening steers the universe' is a key subject of discussion in a 1966 debate that Sallis and Maly described as being between 'logical' and cosmological readings of this philosopher. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heraclitus):
    Name this philosopher, who developed the 'unity of opposites'. Diogenes Laertius referred to this thinker as the 'weeping philosopher'.
  Part 2 (ans: logos):
    This Greek term titles an early lecture by Martin Heidegger on Heraclitus, who claimed that this concept is 'common, though most people live as if they had their own private understanding' of it.
  Part 3 (ans: fire):
    Heraclitus claimed that 'for souls it is death to become water', a substance he often contrasted with this other, hot substance, which he believed to be the fundamental element of the universe.

[B11] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Plato references this thing in Cratylus, after noting that according to another thinker, "all things pass and nothing stays." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a river [accept potamis or potamois]):
    Name this metaphorical object that appears in three fragments from a pre-Socratic philosopher. This is the best-known object used in demonstrating its creator's doctrine of flux.
  Part 2 (ans: Heraclitus of Ephesus):
    The doctrine of flux, as illustrated by a river, is a central tenet of the thought of this Greek philosopher, who claimed fire was the first principle of the universe.
  Part 3 (ans: the unity of opposites [or unity-in-opposites; prompt on partial answers]):
    The extant fragments of Heraclitus's writings also present this notion, which states that seemingly contradictory attributes share a common essence. One fragment gives the example of a road being simultaneously an uphill and downhill route as an example of this idea.

[B12] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: A collection of surviving fragments of this thinker's writings makes up the 22nd chapter of the Diels-Kranz numbering system. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heraclitus):
    Name this philosopher whose best known aphorism expresses his principle of panta rhei. This "weeping philosopher's" concept of a "unity of opposites" is exemplified by him equating "the way up and the way down."
  Part 2 (ans: logos):
    Heraclitus introduced the idea that everything follows a nebulous principle denoted by this Greek word, usually translated as "the Word." In Rhetoric, Aristotle outlines pathos, ethos, and a concept denoted by this Greek word as three modes of persuasion.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Barnes (He's the brother of Julian Barnes.)):
    This contemporary English philosopher and brother of a novelist excerpted passages from Pre-Socratic philosophers in Early Greek Philosophy and wrote The Modes of Skepticism with Julia Annas.

[B13] 2017 Thought Monstrosity (2017) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Walter de Gruyter publishes a "journal for ancient philosophy and science" named after this term. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: apeiron):
    Name this universal principle that was proposed as the arche [AR-kee] by a Milesian philosopher. It produces opposites such as hot and cold and destroys them by joining them together, creating order and structure.
  Part 2 (ans: Anaximander):
    This pupil of Thales formulated the apeiron. He purportedly proposed an early version of the theory of evolution in his lost On Nature, and his similarly-named student replaced his apeiron with air.
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus of Ephesus):
    This "weeping philosopher" from Ephesus also explored the unity of opposites. He believed that "strife is justice," and said that no man ever steps in the same river twice.

[B14] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This philosopher claimed to be a reincarnated daimon in a poem about a mystical cosmogony titled Purifications, of which only about 100 lines survive. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Empedocles):
    Name this philosopher, who believed that the world was a constant struggle between forces he identified as "love" and "strife."
  Part 2 (ans: classical elements):
    Empedocles's cosmogony accounts for the creation of the four classical examples of these things, which include earth, water, air, and fire.
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus):
    This philosopher's writings are sometimes interpreted as stating that fire was the origin of the universe. This man attributed all things to logos and believed they were constantly in flux.

[B15] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Aristotle stated that for Anaximander, this concept was apeiron, and for Thales of Miletus, this concept was water. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: arche):
    Give this Greek word, which means an "ultimate first principle" or "beginning." In pre-Socratic philosophy, this concept is the "first thing" of the world.
  Part 2 (ans: Diogenes Laertius [prompt on "Diogenes"]):
    In his Lives of the Eminent Philosophers, this biographer states that Thales's doctrine "was that water is the universal primary substance, and that the world is animate and full of its divinities."
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus of Ephesus):
    Diogenes Laertius writes of this other philosopher's arche, "All things are composed of fire, and into fire they are again resolved." This thinker is also known for his aphorism Panta Rhei, which is poetically interpreted as "You cannot step into the same river twice."

[B16] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This man stated that "the most beautiful kosmos is a pile of things poured out at random." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heraclitus of Ephesus):
    Name this Presocratic philosopher from Ephesus who was sometimes called "The Weeping Philosopher" and who proclaimed that you cannot step into the same river twice.
  Part 2 (ans: Diogenes Laertius [or Laertius Diogenes; prompt on partial answers.]):
    Most of the known anecdotes about Heraclitus, such as the fact he renounced kingship to allow his brother to rule, are preserved in this man's Lives and Opinions of the Ancient Philosophers.
  Part 3 (ans: daimon):
    Fragment B119 of Heraclitus consists of the words ethos, "anthropoi" and this other Greek word, which is variously translated. Jonathan Barnes translates this word as "fate" in the aphorism "a man's character is his fate," but Kathleen Freeman suggested a translation of "destiny," as in "a man's character is his destiny."

[B17] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Now, have some bonuses on Ancient Greek philosophers. For 10 point each:
  Part 1 (ans: Socrates):
    This philosopher is probably best known as the teacher of Plato, as he produced almost no writing of his own before being sentenced to death for impiety and 'corruption of the youth'.
  Part 2 (ans: Heraclitus):
    This Ephesian philosopher is best known for his philosophy of 'panta rhei' or 'everything flows', often expressed by the aphorism 'you cannot step in the same river twice'.
  Part 3 (ans: Parmenides):
    This philosopher and opponent of Heraclitus is best known for his poem On Nature, in which he argues that everything is ultimately immutable and change is impossible.

[B18] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This man's idea of the doctrine of flux is often embodied in a quote that one cannot step in the same river twice, though he more precisely stated that waters flowing through the same river are always different. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heraclitus):
    Name this Pre-Socratic philosopher who held that fire was the most important of the four elements.
  Part 2 (ans: logos):
    A concept central to Heraclitus's idea of balance was this idea of order. Gnostics placed emphasis on this term, which was used to refer to a divine being by Philo of Alexandria.
  Part 3 (ans: Martha [Craven] Nussbaum [accept either underlined name]):
    This philosopher argued that Heraclitus believed the psyche ended with death in one paper, and provided an interpretation of several classic tracts, in the book The Fragility of Goodness.

[B19] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer these questions about the School of Athens, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Raphael Sanzio [or Raphael Sanzio]):
    It was painted by this Renaissance artist, also known for the Sistine Madonna.
  Part 2 (ans: Apollo):
    In the background, on the left wall, is a relief sculpture of this Greek god. A marble sculpture of this god can be found in the Belvedere Courtyard.
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus):
    Michelangelo was the model for Raphael's depiction of this man, who wears large boots and uses a marble slab as his writing desk apart from the other thinkers. He is thus depicted as "the weeping philosopher."
