=== STOCK CLUES: Diaghilev ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sergei Pavlovich Diaghilev
  - This man praised a contemporary for adhering to the model of a "producer-autocrat" in his article "More About Julius Cae-sar." This man went through the painstaking process of choosing twenty sonatas out of Domenico Scarlatti's 555 to score an adaptation of Carlo Goldoni's The Good-Humored Ladies, the frst of what Constant Lambert termed his "time-travelling" works.
  - He expressed many of his ideas in the periodical he co-founded, World of Art.
  - This man's diferences with Prince Volkonsky led to the cancellation of their planned collaborative staging of Sylvia.
  - This man's collaborator on the choreogra-phy of Les Noces was the younger sister of his lover, who broke up with him in an acrimonious dispute and was diagnosed with schizophrenia.
  - His friends Alexandre Benois and Leon Bakst designed his costumes and sets, and he launched another collab-orator's career by hiring him to compose music for The Firebird.
  - For 10 points, name this collaborator with Igor Stravinsky, the founder of Ballet Russes. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After the commercial failure of a ballet in this city, one choreographer was told he had made the mistake of being "frivolous about serious people." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London):
    Name this city where Ninette de Valois and Frederick Ashton set up the Vic-Wells Ballet. This city's Covent ("CUV-int") Garden area is now home to the Royal Ballet and Opera.
  Part 2 (ans: The Sleeping Beauty [or Spyashchaya krasavitsa] (The Diaghilev and de Valois productions were called The Sleeping Princess.)):
    In 1939, de Valois staged this ballet, with an altered title in reference to Diaghilev's 1921 production. At this ballet's premiere, Carlotta Brianza played the lead role, which in one scene requires standing en pointe on one leg as four suitors in turn take her hand.
  Part 3 (ans: Kenneth MacMillan [or Sir Kenneth MacMillan]):
    In 1970, Ashton was replaced as artistic director of the Royal Ballet by this choreographer, who collaborated with Lynn Seymour on darker ballets like The Invitation and Mayerling.

[B2] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Enrico Cecchetti ("check-KET-tee") mapped basic ballet principles onto six days of the week, with Saturday as the appearance of ballon while performing this action. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: jumping [accept leaping or hopping; accept saute; prompt on being in the air]):
    Name this action done in a pas de chat ("pah duh SHAH") or assemble. Dancers will often begin or end in a demi-plie ("dem-EE-plee-AY") while doing this action.
  Part 2 (ans: barre ("bar")):
    Monday is about strengthening the aplomb, or center of gravity, through repeated exercise on this handrail used for warmups. It is phonetically identical to a long piece of wood or metal.
  Part 3 (ans: Ballets Russes ("roose") [or Les Ballet Russes de Serge Diaghileff; accept the Russian Ballet or Diaghilev's Russian Ballet]):
    Dancers for this ballet company like Anna Pavlova and Vaslav Nijinsky strictly adhered to Cecchetti's weekly schedule. Sergei Diaghilev founded this company, whose members were largely recruited from the Saint Petersburg ballet.

[B3] 2019 ILLIAC (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man variously worked with Natalia Goncharova, Coco Chanel, and Joan Miro to help design sets and costumes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei (Pavlovich) Diaghilev):
    Name this man who employed the dancer Vaslav Nijinsky and the choreographer Michel Fokine in his company, the Ballets Russes (bah-lay roos).
  Part 2 (ans: Les Sylphides [or The Sylphs; prompt on Chopiniana; prompt on Sylphides; do not accept "La Sylphide"]):
    Fokine re-choreographed this plotless ballet blanc for the first season of the Ballet Russes, in which female spirits dance in the moonlight. This ballet's music uses the Military Polonaise and other works by Frederic Chopin.
  Part 3 (ans: en pointe):
    Les Sylphides featured the ballerina Anna Pavlova, who is credited with creating the modern version of shoes for performing this technique where dancers move on the tips of their toes.

[B4] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This ballet's premiere disgusted reviewers from the newspaper Le Figaro, who called its main character "incontinent, with vile movements of erotic bestiality and gestures of heavy shamelessness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Afternoon of a Faun [or L'Apres-midi d'un faune; do not accept "Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun" or "Prelude a l'apres-midi d'un faune"]):
    Name this 12-minute-long ballet. At its premiere, Vaslav Nijinsky made a number of tremendous leaps that Marie Rambert described as "near the stars."
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Diaghilev):
    This flamboyantly gay impresario gave his lover Vaslav Nijinsky the job of choreographing Afternoon of a Faun instead of Michel Fokine, who left this man's Ballets Russes ("ballet ROOSE") company in response.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rite of Spring [or Le sacre du printemps]):
    Diaghilev and Nijinsky's biggest success was this controversial ballet with music by Igor Stravinsky that depicts the sacrifice of a virgin in Bronze Age Russia.

[B5] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Pablo Picasso designed the set and fashioned cubist costumes for this ballet with aid from Giacomo Balla, who helped with the curtains. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Parade):
    Name this ballet choreographed and danced at its 1917 premiere by Leonide Massine.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Diaghilev [or Serge Diaghilev; or Sergei Pavlovich Diaghilev]):
    Like Nijinsky before him, Massine was both an employee and lover of this impresario of the Ballets Russes, who brought star Russian dancers such as Anna Pavlova and Tamara Karsavina with him to France.
  Part 3 (ans: The Dying Swan [or just The Swan]):
    Prior to joining the Ballets Russes, Anna Pavlova became a superstar through her performances of this solo ballet choreographed by Michel Fokine to music by Camille Saint-Saens.

[B6] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The character of Boris Lermontov from Powell and Pressburger's The Red Shoes was based on this man, and he commissioned La Boutique fantasque from Ottorini Respighi and Leonide Massine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei Diaghilev):
    Name this ballet impresario who employed Anna Pavlova, Mikhail Fokine, and Vaslav Nijinsky in his company, the Ballets Russes.
  Part 2 (ans: Parade):
    In 1917 Diaghilev put on this ballet, a collaboration between Erik Satie, Jean Cocteau, and Pablo Picasso. It features three impresarios futilely attempting to get people to enter their theaters, and its title refers to the side acts that end up being the focus of attention.
  Part 3 (ans: Reynaldo Hahn):
    Another Ballets Russes production was Le dieu bleu, with music by this Venezuelan-born composer and lover of Marcel Proust, best known for songs like "Si mes vers avaient des ailes" and "L'heure exquise."

[B7] 2012 Collegiate Novice (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This present-day country is home to the legendary Bolshoi Theater, which houses famed ballet and opera troupes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russia):
    Name this country in which half-Georgian choreographer George Balanchine was born.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei [Pavlovich] Diaghilev [or Serge Diaghilev]):
    This Russian-born founder of the Ballets Russes collaborated with choreographers Michel Fokine and Vaslav Nijinsky.
  Part 3 (ans: Igor [Fyodorovich] Stravinsky):
    Diaghilev commissioned this Russian composer to write his ballets The Firebird and The Rite of Spring.
