=== STOCK CLUES: Willa Cather ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Willa Cather
  - In a story by this author, a poorly-dressed woman with a tic watches an audience like "the granite Ramses in a museum" after "a silence of thirty years." In another story by this author, a boy sneaking in through the basement window of his own house fears that his father will mistake him for a burglar.
  - Aunt Georgiana cries "I don't want to go" after hearing a symphony in a story by this author.
  - In a story from this author's collection The Troll Garden, a boy angers his teachers by wearing a red carnation and works as an usher at Carnegie Hall.
  - In "A Study in Temperament" by this author of "A Wagner Matinee," a boy steals 1,000 dollars and spends it over a weekend in New York before jumping under a train.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Paul's Case" who wrote about the Shimerdas in My Antonia. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Willa Cather
  - This author wrote a short story in which a thief returns a dropped parcel of food and then breaks into a house to steal jewelry only to find his mother there.
  - In one of this author's novels, a woman suspects her husband of having an affair with Nancy, who then escapes to Canada.
  - This author of "A Burglar's Christmas" also wrote a short story in which Paul steals $1000 from a Pittsburgh bank to fulfill his dream of being prosperous.
  - This author of Sapphira and the Slave Girl and "Paul's Case" also wrote a work in which Thea Kronberg rises to opera stardom.
  - Carl Linstrum marries Alexandra Bergson after the death of Emil in this author's most famous work.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote The Song of the Lark and O Pioneers! as part of the Great Plains trilogy. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Willa Cather
  - At the end of a novel by this author, the narrator muses "whatever we had missed, we possessed together the precious, the incommunicable past." A novel by this author is set in Sweet Water and traces Neil Herbert's study of the decline of the title wife of Captain Forrester.
  - She wrote a bildungsroman (BILL-doongs-ro-MAHN) about a woman who moves from Moonstone, Colorado, to Chicago to become an opera singer.
  - This author of A Lost Lady wrote a novel about Thea Kronborg, as well as a nostalgic novel narrated by Jim Burden, who reminisces about his childhood growing up in Nebraska with the title Bohemian girl.
  - For 10 points, name this American author of The Song of the Lark and My Antonia. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Willa Cather
  - In a novel by this author, a hunchbacked man named Blinker admits to torturing a woman until she confesses to killing her son. [PWR]
  - In that novel by this author, the dying Count de Frontenac gifts a glass fruit to the protagonist, the daughter of a Quebecois apothecary. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, Dona Isabella is convinced to reveal her true age so that her daughter Inez can receive her inheritance.
  - The (*) mules Contento and Angelica serve the protagonist, who befriends Kit Carson, in that novel by this author of Shadows on the Rock.
  - Father Vaillant travels to New Mexico with the protagonist of a novel by this author, who wrote a novel in which Anton Cuzak marries Jim Burden's friend, a girl from the Bohemian Shimerda family.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Death Comes for the Archbishop and My Antonia. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Willa Cather
  - This author wrote a novel in which the protagonist ultimately rejects Fred Ottenburg's proposal because of the discovery that he already has an invalid wife.
  - This author of the novel in which Thea Kronborg becomes an opera singer, The Song of the Lark, also wrote a novel in which the protagonist ensures his survival and in which Kit Carson saves the life of the protagonist's close friend, Joseph Vaillant.
  - That novel concerns Jean Latour setting up a diocese in New Mexico.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Death Comes for the Archbishop. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Willa Cather
  - One of this author's title characters leaves the management of her estate to Ivy Peters while she has an affair with Frank Ellinger, much to the dismay of the narrator, Niel Herbert.
  - Another of this author's protagonists falls in love with Fred Ottenburg while on a trip to the pueblos in Flagstaff, Arizona after taking music lessons with Harsanyi.
  - This author of A Lost Lady wrote about Dr.
  - Archie in a novel centering on an opera singer from Moonstone.
  - In another of her novels, the narrator flirts with Lena Lingard and impresses the future lover of Larry Donovan, a member of the Shimerda family.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Song of the Lark and My Antonia. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a short story, Paul follows a character with this profession whose "indefinable air of achievement" he believes "made her a veritable queen of romance." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: opera singer [or vocalist; accept soprano soloist] (The story is "Paul's Case: A Study in Temperment.")):
    Name this profession. In a novel by the same author, Dr. Archie tells a character who aspires to this profession she has been bequeathed six hundred dollars to study in Chicago.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather; accept Wilella Sibert Cather]):
    This author wrote about Thea Kronberg, who aspires to be an opera singer in The Song of the Lark, the second novel of her Great Plains Trilogy. She also wrote My Antonia.
  Part 3 (ans: moonstone [accept Moonstone, Colorado; accept The Moonstone]):
    Thea Kronberg hails from a town with this name in The Song of the Lark. In a novel with this name, Sergeant Cuff discovers that Godfrey Ablewhite stole this title object from Rachel Verinder.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel's protagonist fantasizes of finding her mother homeless and kicking over her begging plate before learning that she died in this manner. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: snakebite [or snake attack; snake venom; or being bitten by a snake; prompt on venom or poisoning or animal attack]):
    Give this cause of death of Cora's mother Mabel in The Underground Railroad. Delia's abusive husband Sykes dies in this manner in Zora Neale Hurston's story "Sweat."
  Part 2 (ans: Jim [accept James] (He appears in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.)):
    A rattlesnake bite in a cave on Jackson's island leads this character to hallucinate a conversation with Voltaire. Those events occur in Percival Everett's 2024 reimagining of this 19th-century literary character's story.
  Part 3 (ans: Willa Cather):
    Jim Burden saves the title Czech farmer's daughter from a rattlesnake in this author's novel My Antonia.

[B3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The Bostonians Helen and Kate move to a seaside town in this author's novel Deephaven, which anticipated her own "Boston marriage" to Annie Adams Fields. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sarah Orne Jewett):
    Name this local color writer of "A White Heron." The narrator poignantly bids farewell to the herbalist Mrs. Todd and other residents of Dunnet Landing, Maine, at the end of her novel The Country of the Pointed Firs.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather]):
    Lilian Faderman's book Surpassing the Love of Men cites a letter Jewett sent to this author questioning her use of a male narrator in the story "On the Gulls' Road." This author dedicated her novel O Pioneers! to Jewett.
  Part 3 (ans: F. O. Matthiessen [or Francis Otto Matthiessen]):
    This writer's study of Jewett was illustrated by his partner Russell Cheney during their time at a cottage in Maine. This critic surveyed 19th-century writers like Emerson and Whitman in the book American Renaissance.

[B4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 2017 novel, a laconic immigrant of this nationality makes his way across the American West while inexplicably growing in size. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Swedish [or Swedish-American; or Swedes; or svenskar] (The short novel is Noon Wine by Katherine Anne Porter.)):
    Name this nationality of a picaresque giant in Hernan Diaz's novel In the Distance. The bounty hunter Homer T. Hatch arrives to capture a harmonica-playing farmhand of this nationality in a book the author called a "short novel."
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather; or Wilella Sibert Cather]):
    The Swedish-American Berglund family works a farm in Nebraska in O Pioneers!, one of this author's novels about immigrant families on the Great Plains.
  Part 3 (ans: Erskine Caldwell [or Erskine Preston Caldwell]):
    This author wrote that every publisher rejected his story "A Country Full of Swedes" for being "a denial of man's nobility." This author made the photobook You Have Seen Their Faces with his wife, Margaret Bourke-White.

[B5] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel about this event, Robert Morison chases a swallow out of his brother Bunny's room with a broom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1918 influenza pandemic [or Spanish flu; prompt on influenza or pandemic]):
    Name this event depicted in William Maxwell's They Came Like Swallows. The newspaper worker Miranda falls in love with a soldier during this event in Katherine Anne Porter's "Pale Horse, Pale Rider."
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather [or Wilella Sibert Cather]):
    Claude Wheeler is spared from the Spanish flu during an outbreak on the ship Anchises in One of Ours, which is a novel by this author of O Pioneers!.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag [or Susan Rosenblatt]):
    This author describes the "near-total historical amnesia" surrounding the 1918 influenza pandemic because it was less useful as a metaphor in their "Illness as Metaphor." This author also wrote "Notes on Camp."

[B6] 2021 ACF Nationals Qualifier (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's fourth section is titled for a white mulberry tree, under which two characters amorously embrace, with fatal repercussions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: O Pioneers!):
    Name this novel about the Bergson family, Swedish-American immigrants living in Nebraska.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather):
    O Pioneers! is by this American author who depicted life in the Great Plains. She chronicled Jim Burden's friendship with the title Bohemian immigrant in My Antonia ("AHN-toh-nee-uh").
  Part 3 (ans: throwing them to wolves [accept something like feeding them to wolves; prompt on anything describing throwing them off a sled by asking "What happened after they were thrown off the sled?"]):
    In My Antonia, Russian immigrants Pavel and Peter became outcasts in their own country after doing this to a bride and bridegroom on the way back from a wedding.

[B7] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The memoir Timebends reveals that this character's surname is not a double entendre but a reference to Otto Wernicke's character in the films of Fritz Lang. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Willy Loman [prompt on Loman]):
    Name this theater role originated by Lee J. Cobb whose size caused one line to be changed from "shrimp" to "walrus." Another line states that this character is "a human being, and a terrible thing is happening to him. So attention must be paid."
  Part 2 (ans: Newman):
    Timebends discusses how the Loman family was inspired by Arthur Miller's uncle Manny and his sons Abby and Buddy, who had this surname. The protagonist of Focus, Miller's only novel, also has this surname.
  Part 3 (ans: Willa Cather):
    Miller also wrote that he chose Death of a Salesman's title in order to juxtapose his clownish protagonist with those of more "austere" books, like this author's novel Death Comes for the Archbishop.

[B8] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This word features twice in the title of a Walt Whitman poem that encourages 'my tan-faced children' to 'take up the task eternal, and the burden and the lesson'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pioneers [accept O Pioneers! or 'Pioneers! O Pioneers!']):
    Give this word. In a novel with this word in its title, Frank Shabata drunkenly shoots Emil and Marie under a white mulberry tree, a crime later discovered by Crazy Ivar.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather):
    O Pioneers! is a novel by this American author. Along with My Antonia, it forms part of this author's Great Plains trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: America [accept 'Let America Be America Again'; accept the USA]):
    A poem about this place interjects 'O, Pioneers!' after it admits being 'Hungry yet today despite the dream'. Earlier, that poem describes this place as 'the pioneer on the plain / Seeking a home where he himself is free'.

[B9] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker hears "the hard trail telephone a far-off horse's feet" in a Rudyard Kipling poem set in one of these places. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a prairie [accept "The Prairie"; accept "Night on the Prairies"]):
    Name this type of place that titles a poem from Leaves of Grass whose speaker thinks "this globe enough, till there sprang out so noiseless around me myriads of other globes" while admiring the stars above one of these places.
  Part 2 (ans: William Cullen Bryant):
    This Romantic-era American poet called prairies "gardens of the desert [...] which the speech of England has no name" in his prairie-praising poem "The Prairies." He also wrote "Thanatopsis."
  Part 3 (ans: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather] (The novel is O, Pioneers.)):
    This author compares youth to "wild roses" against the tedium of prairie life in her poem "Prairie Spring" from her collection April Twilights. A novel by this author named for a Whitman poem is divided into sections like "The Wild Land" and "The White Mulberry Tree."

[B10] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The nicknames "Blanchet" and "Trompe-la-mort" are given to a character in this novel who breaks his thigh-bone after his carriage falls down a gorge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Death Comes For the Archbishop):
    Name this novel that ends with the body of Jean Marie Latour being laid before the altar of a church he built.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather):
    This author used New Mexico as the setting of her novel Death Comes For the Archbishop, though she more characteristically set novels such as My Antonia on the prairie.
  Part 3 (ans: KitCarson [or CristobalCarson; accept any underlined name]):
    In Death Comes For the Archbishop, this man and his wife take in Magdalena when she flees her murderous husband. The penultimate chapter describes a massacre of the Navajo committed by this "misguided friend" of the Archbishop.

[B11] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this short story, the narrator's aunt tells him not to love music so much, since it could be taken away from him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Wagner Matinee"):
    Name this short story in which Clark takes the former music teacher Georgiana to the title event, where she is extremely moved and declares "I don't want to go!" back to her dull life in Nebraska.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather):
    "A Wagner Matinee" is by this author of O Pioneers! and My Antonia.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul):
    In another Cather story, a boy by this name runs away to New York, lives expensively until he goes broke, then throws himself under a train. This is the first name of a poet surnamed Dunbar who wrote "We Wear the Mask."

[B12] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's organization is fractured because its middle section, telling the story of Tom Outland discovering a cliff city in New Mexico, was written by the author earlier than the other sections. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Professor's House):
    Name this 1925 novel about Godfrey St. Peter, an academic at Hamilton University. St. Peter mourns the death of Tom, his prize student, and almost lets himself die during a gas leak in the title structure before being saved by the seamstress Augusta.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather):
    The Professor's House was written by this author, who also depicted frontier life in such novels as My Antonia(AN-tuh-nee-uh) and O Pioneers!
  Part 3 (ans: Thea Kronborg [or Thea Kronborg]):
    In Cather's The Song of the Lark, this protagonist starts out wanting to become a pianist, before becoming a renowned opera singer. She is supported throughout much of the novel by family friend Dr. Howard Archie.

[B13] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Tip Smith tells a story about a destroyed Indian settlement on the title place in this author's "The Enchanted Bluff." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Willa Cather):
    Name this American author whose visit to Native American cliff dwellings at Mesa Verde inspired their appearance in several of her works. She also wrote O Pioneers! and My Antonia.
  Part 2 (ans: The Song of the Lark):
    Cliff-dwellings in a Panther Canyon are described in Part Four of this Cather novel, which follows Thea Kronborg's rise to fame as an opera singer.
  Part 3 (ans: The Professor's House):
    This other Cather novel includes a diary detailing the discovery of an abandoned cliff settlement by Tom Outland, a deceased student of the nostalgic title character, Godfrey St. Peter.

[B14] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Myra Henshawe runs away from Parthia, Illinois to be with Oswald in this author's My Mortal Enemy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather]):
    Name this author who wrote about Paul Wheeler's decision to enlist in World War I in One of Ours.
  Part 2 (ans: My Antonia):
    In this Willa Cather novel, Jim Burden pursues a relationship with Lena Lingard while studying at the University of Nebraska. Earlier, he befriends the title Bohemian girl.
  Part 3 (ans: rattlesnake [prompt on snake]):
    In childhood, Jim Burden initially impresses Antonia by killing one of these animals.

[B15] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this story buys a lot of candy for his wife, joking with the clerk Miss Pearl that he likes his women fat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Neighbour Rosicky"):
    Name this otherwise-plaintive story in which the kindhearted Dr. Ed Burleigh happens to be out of town when the title elderly farmer overexerts himself in his barn and dies.
  Part 2 (ans: "Paul's Case"):
    In this story by the same author, the title character offends his school's faculty by wearing a red carnation in his buttonhole, works as an usher in Carnegie Hall, and throws himself in front of a train to escape punishment for stealing $1,000 to fund a trip to New York City.
  Part 3 (ans: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather]):
    "Neighbour Rosicky" and "Paul's Case" are the best-known stories of this Nebraskan regionalist author of O, Pioneers! and My Antonia.

[B16] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This novel opens with Mrs. Kronborg giving birth to her son Thor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Song of the Lark):
    Name this novel in which Ray Kennedy bequeaths six hundred dollars to Thea Kronborg to study in Chicago, after Ray dies in a train accident. She originally wants to study piano, but Thea becomes a famous singer after Andor Harsanyi hears her voice.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather):
    The Song of the Lark was written by this American author who was known for her novels of frontier life on the Great Plains. She wrote O Pioneers! and My Antonia.
  Part 3 (ans: Dr. Howard Archie (either underlined part)):
    This is the name of the doctor who is assists Mrs. Kronborg in giving birth in the opening scene. He eventually takes part in a venture in the San Felipe silver mine. By the end of the book, he helps Governor Alden get elected.

[B17] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the opening portion of this novel, Carl Linstrum rescues Emil's kitten, which has climbed up a telephone pole. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: O Pioneers!):
    Name this novel about Alexandra Bergson's devotion to her farm.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather [or Willa Sibert Cather]):
    O Pioneers! is by this American author, who wrote of Jim Burden's love for the title Bohemian girl in her novel My Antonia.
  Part 3 (ans: rattlesnake):
    While examining prairie-dog holes in Chapter 7 of My Antonia, Jim and Antonia are attacked by a large one of these animals. Jim then kills this animal with a spade.

[B18] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Aunt Georgiana breaks down in tears afer attending a concert with her nephew Clark in this author's story "A Wagner Matinee." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Willa Cather):
    Name this author of "The Willing Muse" who wrote a story about the corpse of famous sculptor Harvey Merrick return-ing to Harvey's small hometown to be buried.
  Part 2 (ans: "Paul's Case"):
    The title character of this Willa Cather story steals $1, 000 from Denny & Carson's to go on a spree in New York afer his father forbids him from keeping his job at Pittsburgh's Carnegie Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Nebraska):
    In her story "Neighbour Rosicky," Cather describes how the elderly immigrant Anton Rosicky came from Europe to the prairie land of this state, where Cather also set O Pioneers! and My Antonia.

[B19] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Mr Harsanyi is a piano teacher who directs the protagonist to get vocal training with Madison Bowers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Song of the Lark):
    Name this novel in which Thea Kronborg aspires to become a professional musician and eventually gets to perform in the Metropolitan Opera House.
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather):
    This author of The Song of the Lark also wrote a novel narrated by Jim Burden about the Bohemian Shimerdas, My Antonia.
  Part 3 (ans: The Professor's House):
    The title character of this Cather novel accepts death when there is a gas leak in the title abode, but he is rescued by Augusta.
