=== STOCK CLUES: Monteverdi ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 34 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 MUSES III (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi; accept the Monteverdi Choir]
  - In a tenor duet by this composer, a dissonant middle section depicts shepherds wandering lonely in the woods despite earlier singing, "The weather returns and with sweet accents." The song "Burned Remains" opens a Sestina by this composer inspired by the death of the opera singer Caterina Martinelli. [PWR]
  - Three men in the distance listen to a (+) nymph singing with basso ostinato accompaniment in a song included at the end of a songbook by this composer. [PWR]
  - In 2000, a performance group named for this composer went on a massive pilgrimage to dozens of European churches to record Bach's cantatas. [PWR]
  - This composer embraced the musical liberty of his output as a facet of what was deemed the (*) "second practice" by music theorist Giovanni Artusi. [PWR]
  - Songs by this composer such as "Pur ti miro" and "Possente spirto" appear in operas of his that helped pioneer the stile (STEE-ley) concitato (cone-chee-TAH-toh) style.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian composer, whose vocal works include eight complete books of madrigals and operas like L'Orfeo. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 DECAF (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: madrigals by Claudio (Giovanni Antonio) Monteverdi [prompt on partial answer; prompt on descriptions of Monteverdi's songs or canzonetti with "what genre of songs name and comprise those collections?"]
  - Note to players: composer and type of piece required. [PWR]
  - Overlapping voices repeat the rising motif A, B, long C in one of these pieces to depict small flowers reaching for the sun that are "neither hyacinths nor daffodils." In a surprising dissonance, a descending melody starting with a long C overlaps with a similar figure starting on D-flat in a late collection of these works. [PWR]
  - One set of these works depicts a (+) nymph undressing her foot along with a piece whose melody opens with the call quarter note A, half note B, repeated continuously up a minor tetrachord. [PWR]
  - Anonymously cited aspects of these works were called "castles in the air, chimeras founded upon sand" in a dialogue between Luca and Vario; that critique of what are now known to be unpublished examples of these works forms the second part of The Imperfections of Modern Music by Giovanni (*) Artusi. [PWR]
  - The last of these works published in its composer's lifetime appeared in their eighth book, titled "of War and Love,"which contains "Lament of a Nymph." For 10 points, name these secular polyphonic vocal works by the composer of L'Orfeo. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi] (The first sentence refers to the Duo Seraphim from Monteverdi's 1610 Vespers.)
  - A piece by this composer contains a movement in which two tenors represent angels and are joined by a third tenor to symbolize the Trinity.
  - To depict a battle in one work, this composer called for some of the earliest uses of pizzicato and tremolo as part of the "agitated style" or stile concitato .
  - This man's madrigals such as Cruda Amarilli were criticized by Giovanni Artusi; those madrigals used a style in which lyrics govern music known as seconda pratica.
  - He's not Gabrieli, but this music director of St.
  - Mark's Cathedral reused the brassy opening toccata from his most famous opera in a 1610 sacred piece.
  - This man composed The Coronation of Poppea and the Vespers of the Blessed Virgin.For 10 points, what Baroque composer wrote the earliest opera still regularly performed, L'Orfeo ? [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Claudio Monteverdi
  - Giovanni Artusi criticised this composer's licentious use of dissonance.
  - This composer of the songs Si dolce e'l tormento and Chiome d'oro reused the Toccata which precedes his earliest surviving opera as the opening Deus in adjotorium meum intende from what is probably his most famous collection of religious works.
  - Composed for his employer, the Duke of Mantua, the title character of one of this composer's operas descends to the underworld to search for Eurydice.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian Renaissance and Baroque composer of the Vespers of 1610 and the earliest opera still in regular performance, L'Orfeo. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Like his uncle, this composer studied under Orlande de Lassus while working at the court of Duke Albrecht V in Munich. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Gabrieli):
    Name this Venetian composer whose student, Heinrich Schutz, brought the Italian Baroque style to Germany. This composer of many Sacrae Symphoniae wrote the Sonata pian' e forte, one of the first pieces to specify dynamics.
  Part 2 (ans: trombone):
    Gabrieli's Sonata pian' e forte calls for six of these instruments. A large part of the ensemble at St. Mark's Cathedral consisted of these brass instruments that developed from the sackbut.
  Part 3 (ans: the toccata from L'Orfeo [prompt on the opening or beginning of L'Orfeo; prompt on Claudio Monteverdi's toccata by asking "from which piece?"; reject answers that include "prologue," "overture," or "first scene"]):
    In this excerpt by a different composer, four or five trombones play half-note open fifths while trumpets and cornets play a melody beginning with a fast ascent from D to A, followed by a scalar descent to D in dotted eighth-sixteenth note pairs.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An opera by this composer opens with a toccata before the personification of music delivers a prologue. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    Name this Italian composer of the earliest completely surviving opera, L'Orfeo.
  Part 2 (ans: "Possente spirto"):
    The vocal highlight of L'Orfeo is this aria that includes a call and response with the trumpet in one of its verses. Monteverdi wrote two alternative vocal lines for this aria in which Orpheus tries to convince Charon to ferry him across the Styx.
  Part 3 (ans: Ancient Rome [or the Roman Empire] (The operas are L'Incoronazione di Poppea and Giulio Cesare.)):
    Monteverdi's last opera is set in this civilization and ends with the duet "Pur ti miro, pur ti godo." The castrato Senesino ("say-nay-ZEE-no") premiered the role of a ruler of this civilization who sings "Va tacito e nascosto" ("vah TAH-chee-toh ay noss-COAST-oh") in an opera by Handel.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer and Francesco Provenzale ("proh-vaint-ZAH-lay") are often credited with founding a school between the Roman and Venetian schools that included Giovanni Battista Pergolesi ("pair-goh-LAY-zee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alessandro Scarlatti [prompt on Scarlatti]):
    Name this composer of the operas Mitridate Eupatore ("mee-tree-DAH-tay ay-oo-pah-TOH-ray") and L'honesta negli amori ("loh-nay-STAH nail-yee ah-MOH-ree"), who was pivotal in codifying standard da capo ("dah KAH-poh")aria form.
  Part 2 (ans: Naples [or Napoli; accept Neapolitan School; accept Neapolitan chord]):
    Alessandro Scarlatti founded a school in this Italian city, which houses the Teatro di San Carlo. A chord named for this city is a first-inversion flat-two chord.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi]):
    Naples was the site of the 1651 first revival of this earlier composer's opera The Coronation of Poppea. His opera L'Orfeo ("lor-FAY-oh")is the earliest to remain in the standard repertoire.

[B4] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Josquin des Prez set two of his works to a secular one of these melodies, a French song titled "L'homme arme" [Lom Ar-MAY]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cantus firmus [or cantus firmi; or canti firmi; or canto fermo; or canti fermi]):
    Name these monophonic melodies, usually from Gregorian chants, which were used as the basis for many polyphonic 14th- and 15th-century compositions.
  Part 2 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    This composer used cantus firmi in his Vespers for the Blessed Virgin, which combined the older "first practice" and newer "second practice" that he used for an opera ending with the aria "Pur ti miro, pur ti godo."
  Part 3 (ans: mass [or missa]):
    Cantus firmi were most frequently used as settings for the cyclic type of these compositions set for the church, which include the Kyrie, Gloria, Credo, Sanctus, and Agnus Dei movements.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's usage of a ritornello to represent La Musica marks an early example of an operatic leitmotif. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    Name this Italian composer during the Renaissance-to-Baroque transition, who helped popularize opera through musical innovations in The Coronation of Poppea and L'Orfeo.
  Part 2 (ans: recitative):
    Monteverdi built on Jacopo Peri's usage of excerpts of this type, in which the singer follows the rhythm of ordinary speech. The secco, or dry, variant of these excerpts often served as lead-ins to arias.
  Part 3 (ans: toccata):
    L'Orfeo unusually opens with a section in this form that roused audiences by repeating a trumpet fanfare three times. Monteverdi later reused the section to open his Vespers for the Blessed Virgin.

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this composer's 1638 "Lament of the Nymph," outer sections for men's trio surround a middle section for a solo soprano singing "at the tempo of her emotion." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi] (The opera is L'Orfeo.)):
    Name this composer whose operatic setting of the Ariadne myth is lost, except for a five-voice lament in which the title character asks to die. His best-known opera begins with a brass "toccata."
  Part 2 (ans: Venice [or Venezia]):
    Monteverdi spent his last 30 years in this present-day city, where opera theaters and season tickets were invented for shows that coincided with its masked Carnival.
  Part 3 (ans: Barbara Strozzi [or Barbara Valle]):
    At least three Monteverdi libretti were written by Giulio, the adoptive father of this Venetian singer and composer of the aria "Che si puo fare" ("KAY see pwoh FAH-ray") and the cantata "Lagrime mie" ("LAH-gree-may MEE-yay").

[B7] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's 1610 Vespro della Beata Vergine marks the importation of his seconda pratica ("say-KAWN-duh PRAH-tee-kuh") style into sacred music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi]):
    Name this Italian Baroque composer, whose opera L'Orfeo is the earliest that has remained part of the standard repertoire.
  Part 2 (ans: basso continuo):
    Although some of the pieces in the Vespro della Beata Vergine call for elaborate instrumental ensembles, some use this kind of accompaniment, which consists of a bassline and chord progression, usually indicated with figures.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir John Eliot Gardiner):
    The historically-informed vocal group the Monteverdi Choir was formed by this conductor for a 1964 performance of Vespro della Beata Vergine. He also founded the English Baroque Soloists and the Orchestre Revolutionnaire et Romantique.

[B8] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The patriarch of this family, Giulio, included Amarilli, mia bella in his two collections of monodic madrigals entitled Le nuove musiche, written as a member of the Florentine Camerata. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caccini family [accept Giulio Romolo Caccini, Settimia Caccini, or Francesca Caccini]):
    Name this musical family of the Baroque period. It included the soprano Settimia and her sister Francesca, whose La liberazione di Ruggiero is considered the first opera composed by a woman.
  Part 2 (ans: Eurydice [accept Euridice] (The unnamed opera is Monteverdi's L'Orfeo.)):
    Giulio Caccini rushed to publish his own opera named for this person before an identically-named one by Jacopo Peri. Aspects of the seconda prattica are embodied in a 1607 opera in which a man sings the aria "Possente spirto" in lament for this woman.
  Part 3 (ans: it repeats [or word forms; accept repeat sign; accept repetition, recurring, or other synonyms; accept any descriptions of something that keeps happening or happens multiple times/more than once]):
    Some of Caccini's music is strophic, meaning the lyrics change while the music progresses in this manner. A pair of double bars each with two dots indicate that a given musical passage should undergo this action, which is characteristic of all ostinatos. A description is acceptable.

[B9] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This term titles a 2021 album by Michael Spyres on which he sings arias traditionally assigned to disparate ranges. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: baritenor [or baritenore]):
    Name this voice type, a portmanteau between the standard two middle male voices. Rossini's roles for older, aristocratic men are usually described using this term.
  Part 2 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi]):
    In modern times the male leads in this man's operas have been assigned to both baritones and tenors, so they have retroactively been called baritenor roles. This man wrote the 1607 opera L'Orfeo.
  Part 3 (ans: Placido Domingo):
    This notable Spanish baritenor made his debut as a full baritone in a 2009 production of Simon Boccanegra. He founded the Three Tenors alongside Luciano Pavarotti and Jose Carreras.

[B10] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Richard Taruskin was critical of the style of musical performance denoted by this three-word term, claiming that attempting to recreate past practices is an inherently modern goal susceptible to modern biases. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: historically informed performances [prompt on HIP]):
    Name this three-word term for a style of musical performance adhered to by Trevor Pinnock and Christopher Hogwood that uses supposedly period-accurate instruments and mannerisms to perform Baroque-era music.
  Part 2 (ans: harpsichord [or clavecin or clavicembalo]):
    Trevor Pinnock and Christopher Hogwood often lead their ensembles while playing on this Baroque keyboard instrument, whose strings are plucked rather than hit with a hammer like in the modern piano.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi; accept the Monteverdi Choir]):
    Sir John Eliot Gardiner, one of the biggest proponents of HIP, leads a choir named for this composer. That choir was initially formed to perform this composer's 1610 Vespers for the Blessed Virgin.

[B11] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's Opus 3 cantata Il lamento sul Rodano severo is about the 1642 execution of Henri, Marquis of Cinq-Mars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barbara Strozzi [the portrait is titled The Viola da Gamba Player]):
    Name this prolific composer of vocal music in mid-17th century Venice, a member of the Accademia degli Unisoni who is believed to be the one holding a viola da gamba in a notorious portrait.
  Part 2 (ans: madrigals):
    Strozzi's first published work was a set of these works adapting a poem by her father Giulio. Several of these works of "war" and "love" comprise the two symmetric halves of an earlier composer's eighth and final book of them.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi]):
    Strozzi's madrigals often employ the trill-heavy stile agitato developed by this aforementioned Italian composer of the earliest still-widely-performed opera, L'orfeo.

[B12] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer invented the stile agitato ("STEE-lay ah-jee-TAH-toh") by including pizzicati and tremolos in The Combat of Tancredi and Clorinda, which is collected in his eighth book of madrigals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    Name this composer of the opera The Coronation of Poppea.
  Part 2 (ans: seconda prattica [or second practice; prompt on practica or practice or stile moderno]):
    Claudio Monteverdi coined the name for this style to distinguish his emphasis on the words of pieces, as opposed to the melodic emphasis of earlier composers. It is sometimes also called the stile moderno.
  Part 3 (ans: Barbara Strozzi):
    Exemplares of the seconda prattica include this composer, who published eight collections of madrigals and other early Baroque songs before her death in 1677. She was adopted into a noble family by Giulio, a famed librettist of the time.

[B13] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 2019 Budapest production of one opera reconstructed Alessandro Striggio the Younger's original ending for it as a substitute for this plot device. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: deus ex machina [accept " god from the machine "] (Apollo comes down on the cloud to invite the protagonist to Heaven.)):
    Name this plot device that creates a lieto fine for that opera. As an alternative to having the Bacchae murder its protagonist, that opera's finale was rewritten with an example of this plot device in which its protagonist leaves the stage on a cloud.
  Part 2 (ans: Poppea):
    In another operatic use of the deus ex machina, a jealous Empress Ottavia enlists Ottone to kill this character, but because this mistress asked Cupid for a blessing, Cupid thwarts Ottone during the aria "Eccomi trasformato."
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi]):
    This Italian composer integrated the deus ex machina into The Coronation of Poppea as well as the oldest regularly performed opera, L'Orfeo.

[B14] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, three 'Passing Clouds' recount in turn the birth of Dionysus, the myth of Lycurgus, and the myth of Pentheus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mask of Orpheus):
    Name this opera, whose second act sees its title character travel through seventeen arches, beginning with Countryside, and ending with Fear.
  Part 2 (ans: Orphee aux enfers [or Orpheus in the Underworld or Orpheus in Hell]):
    As well as featuring Birtwistle's The Mask of Orpheus, the English National Opera's 2019 season saw Emma Rice direct an adaptation of this comic operetta, in which Public Opinion tries, unasked, to salvage Orpheus and Euridice's unhappy marriage.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    This composer's L'Orfeo is the earliest opera still in regular production. As well as nine books of madrigals, this composer also wrote The Coronation of Poppaea.

[B15] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an opera by this composer, La Tragedia ("trah-jeh-DEE-ah") sings with the shepherds Aminta and Arcetro ("ar-CHET-roh") before the nymph Dafne ("DAHF-nay") arrives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacopo Peri):
    Name this composer who adapted the Orpheus and Euridyce story into his 1600 opera Euridice ("eur-ee-DEE-chay"). His mostly-lost work Dafne is considered the earliest known opera.
  Part 2 (ans: ritornellos [or ritornelli]):
    Euridice's final passage "Biond' arcier, che d'alto monte" ("b'yond ahr-CHYAIR kay DAHL-toh MOHN-tay") is one of these recurring tutti passages common in Baroque operas and concertos. These passages would later inspire the rondo form.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi):
    Peri's operas also inspired this Italian composer, who also used the Orpheus and Euridyce story for his opera Orfeo. He also wrote The Coronation of Poppea.

[B16] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece's soloist is told to sing in the "tempo of the emotions," while the three men sing according to the beat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Lamento della ninfa"):
    Name this piece written over a ground bass in A minor. It was published in a 1638 collection of pieces "guerrieri et amorosi."
  Part 2 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    The "Lamento della ninfa" was published along with pieces like Il Combattimento di Tancredi e Clorinda by this Italian composer of the 17th century.
  Part 3 (ans: perfect fourth):
    In a 1978 article, Ellen Rosand discussed "Lamento della ninfa" and other grounds that descend through this interval as an "emblem of lament." This interval is the inversion of a perfect fifth.

[B17] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Baroque composer Barbara Strozzi, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi]):
    She composed in the seconda pratica style of polyphony, which this composer of the 1610 Vespers had defended against the attacks of the traditionalist Giovanni Artusi.
  Part 2 (ans: madrigal):
    She, like Monteverdi, was a prolific composer of this genre of unaccompanied vocal music, whose secular and emotional lyrics often contrast them from the similar genre of the motet.
  Part 3 (ans: arietta [or ariette; do not accept "aria"]):
    Her Diporti di Euterpe is subtitled for cantatas and these pieces. This word also titles the first piece of the first book of Edvard Grieg's Lyric Pieces, as well as the last movement of the last of Beethoven's piano sonatas.

[B18] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his reply to Giovanni Artusi's criticisms, this composer coined the terms prima prattica and seconda prattica to describe how dissonances were prepared. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    Name this Italian Baroque composer. Works of his that incurred Artusi's wrath included "Cruda Amarilli" and "Anima mia, perdona."
  Part 2 (ans: madrigals [or madrigali]):
    The aforementioned Monteverdi works were all in this genre of generally secular polyphonic vocal music, which often employ word-painting. This musical form is sometimes contrasted with the sacred motet.
  Part 3 (ans: Luca Marenzio [or Luca Marentio]):
    This composer was, along with Carlo Gesualdo, one of the most chromatic madrigal-writers of the late 16th century. "Che fa hogg'il mio sole" was one of this composer's eight madrigals included in Nicholas Yonge's collection Musica transalpina.

[B19] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This critic tried to figure how many classical music concerts he could attend in New York for under 100 dollars in his column "Cheap Seats." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alex Ross):
    Name this classical music critic for the New Yorker who wrote about the trajectory of 20th-century music in The Rest is Noise.
  Part 2 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    An essay from Alex Ross's Listen to This describes how this Italian Baroque composer combined the descending lament figure with the chaconne (shah-KUN) form in his Lamento della ninfa. This composer also wrote the first opera in the standard repertoire, L'Orfeo (lor-FAY-oh).
  Part 3 (ans: Partitas for Solo Violin):
    Ross observes hints of that lament figure in the grueling Ciaccona (cha-KOH-na) movement in D minor from one of these solo violin pieces by J. S. Bach, which are paired with sonatas.

[B20] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work opens with the proclamation of the text "Deus in adjutorium", after which the choir enters accompanied by trumpet fanfares. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vespro della Beata Vergine [accept Vespers]):
    Identify this composition of 1610. It includes the duet "Pulchra es" and concludes with a long setting of the Magnificat.
  Part 2 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    The Vespers of 1610 were written by this Italian composer, whose operas include The Coronation of Poppea and L'Orfeo.
  Part 3 (ans: tenor):
    The motet Nigra sum from Monteverdi's vespers is written for this voice part. The opening recitative "Comfort ye, my people" from Handel's Messiah was written for this voice part, as well as the part of Aeneas in Purcell's Dido and Aeneas.

[B21] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Though supposedly in A minor, this composer's piece "Moro, lasso, al mio duolo" demonstrates his bizarre chromaticism by opening with a C-sharp minor chord. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Don) Carlo Gesualdo):
    Name this Italian Renaissance composer. Stravinsky wrote a ballet named "Monumentum pro [this composer]".
  Part 2 (ans: madrigals):
    Gesualdo mostly composed pieces in this genre, the secular counterpart of the motet. Like some of Gesualdo's works in this genre, Michelangelo Rossi's two books of pieces in this genre also contained a lot of chromaticism.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    This other composer wrote 9 books of Madrigals, as well as operas such as The Coronation of Poppea and L'Orfeo.

[B22] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these composers of battaglia (bah-TAHL-yah), a genre of 16th-century music depicting combat.
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi [or Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi]):
    This composer made some of the first uses of pizzicato and tremolo to depict the fight between a Christian knight and a Saracen warrior woman in The Combat Between Tancred and Clorinda. He also composed nine books of madrigals and the early opera L'Orfeo.
  Part 2 (ans: William Byrd):
    This English composer included the nine-movement piece "The Battle" and a mock battaglia depicting a couples' game called "The Barley Break" in a set of 42 keyboard pieces dedicated to "My Ladye Nevell."
  Part 3 (ans: Clement Janequin (CLAY-mahnt ZHAH-nay-kahn)):
    This French composer's "La Guerre," depicting the Franco-Venetian rout at Marignano (mah-rin-YAH-no), and "Le Chant des oiseaux" (leh SHAHNT deh wah-ZOHZ), depicting birdsong, are among his 286 chansons, many of them programmatic.

[B23] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The antiphonal use of this technique was pioneered by Adrian Willaert ("AH-dree-on VIL-art"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: polychoral writing [prompt on descriptions like "using more than one chorus"]):
    Name this musical technique made famous by works like "In Ecclesiis" ("een ek-CLAY-see-eese") by Giovanni Gabrieli.
  Part 2 (ans: Venice [or Venezia]):
    Polychoral writing was a hallmark of music written for this Italian city's St. Mark's Cathedral. This port was able to afford so many musicians because of its advantageous location in a lagoon on the Adriatic.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio (Giovanni Antonio) Monteverdi):
    This Italian composer took control of music at St. Mark's in 1613. He wrote the 1610 Vespers and early operas like L'Orfeo.

[B24] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's eighth book of madrigals pioneered the stile concitato, in which repeated notes were used to express agitation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claudio (Giovanni Antonio) Monteverdi):
    Name this Italian composer whose fifth book of madrigals included "Cruda Amarilli," which raised the ire of Giovanni Artusi.
  Part 2 (ans: seconda practica [or seconda prattica]):
    In their polemical exchanges with Artusi, Monteverdi and his brother coined this two-word Italian term for their new style of music, which flouts the contrapuntal conventions of Zarlino and Palestrina in service of vivid textual expression. It is sometimes conflated with the stile moderno [STEE-lay moh-DAIR-noh].
  Part 3 (ans: Gian Francesco Malipiero):
    From 1926 to 1942, this Italian musicologist and composer created a complete edition of Monteverdi's works. This composer of L'Orfiede dedicated his opera Giulio Cesare to Mussolini, to curry favor with the fascists.

[B25] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Knud Jeppesen wrote a comprehensive study of this often homophonic vocal genre, whose prominent composers include Bartolomeo Tromboncini and Marchetto Cara. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: frottola [or frottole]):
    Give this umbrella term for several Italian secular genres at the beginning of the 16th century. This kind of work developed from Italian practices of improvising a song and its lute accompaniment.
  Part 2 (ans: madrigals):
    The frottola was a predecessor to this genre of a cappella secular music of the 16th and early 17th centuries, known for its word-painting. Luca Marenzio and Carlo Gesualdo composed many of these pieces.
  Part 3 (ans: Claudio Monteverdi):
    This Italian Baroque composer courted controversy with his Fifth Book of Madrigals, which included "Cruda Amarilli." You may know him better for his operas L'Orfeo and The Coronation of Poppea.
