=== STOCK CLUES: Shigeru Ban ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Japan [or Nihon or Nihon-koku; or Nippon or Nippon-koku] (The transparent toilets were designed by Shigeru Ban. The Church of the Light is by Tadao Ando.)
  - The US Embassy in this country is one of the few buildings to credit the Black architect Norma Merrick Sklarek as having designed it with Cesar Pelli.
  - In 2020, an architect from this country unveiled transparent glass toilet stalls whose walls turn opaque if occupied.
  - An architect from this country designed the glass roof of the Metz  Centre Pompidou.
  - An architect from this country allowed sunshine to penetrate a crucifix-shaped gap in the altar of his Church of the Light.
  - An architect from this country arranged shipping containers as walls of the Christchurch Cardboard Cathedral and often uses recyclable materials like paper.
  - A black lintel and two vermilion pillars often adorn religious structures from this country called torii gates.
  - For 10 points, Shigeru Ban designed earthquake shelters for what country's city of Kobe? [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Shigeru Ban [or Ban Shigeru]
  - This architect included a Universal Floor in a project inspired by an assignment from his Cooper Union teacher John Hejduk called the Nine-Square Grid House, and furthered the idea of a curtain wall in his Case Study House 07. [PWR]
  - An art museum designed by this man has a glass elevator inspired by a gondola from which patrons then "ski" down to the galleries. [PWR]
  - A bamboo hat inspired the hexagonal shell made from timber he used for the roof of a (*) Metz art museum. [PWR]
  - Some of his structures are anchored by sand-filled Kirin beer crates.
  - He designed the Aspen Museum of Art.
  - This man's own summer house on Lake Yamanaka was one of the first to use paper for a building material; he subsequently used paper for his series of refugee houses following the Kobe earthquake.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese winner of the 2014 Pritzker Prize and designer of the Cardboard Cathedral. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Together with Rolf Gutbrod, this architect designed a steel mesh web covered by a transparent polyester fabric to serve as his country's pavilion at Expo 67. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frei (Paul) Otto):
    Name this German architect who promoted lightweight, tensile designs, such as the roof of the main stadium of the 1972 Munich Olympics. He was awarded the 2015 Pritzker immediately after his death.
  Part 2 (ans: Shigeru Ban):
    Otto collaborated with this architect on a pavilion design for Expo 2000 featuring a roof made entirely of paper. Eight shipping containers form the walls of this architect's Cardboard Cathedral in Christchurch.
  Part 3 (ans: Denver):
    Another celebrated example of lightweight, tensile architecture is the Teflon-coated fiberglass peaked roof of the Jeppesen terminal in this American city's international airport, which evokes Native American teepees or the peaks of the nearby Rocky Mountains.

[B2] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For the 1964 New York World's Fair, Texaco sponsored a million-dollar installation to accompany the New York State Pavilion designed by this architect. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    Name this architect who won the first Pritzker Architecture Prize in 1979. This architect based the design of his own Connecticut residence on Mies van der Rohe's ("meese van der roh's") Farnsworth House.
  Part 2 (ans: Montreal):
    Buckminster Fuller designed this Canadian city's Biosphere, a geodesic dome on a narrow island in the Saint Lawrence River, for Expo '67.
  Part 3 (ans: cardboard paper [or paper tubes; prompt on paper] (All of the works are by Shigeru Ban.)):
    After designing the German Pavilion of Expo '67, engineer Frei Otto helped design the Japanese pavilion made out of this material for Hanover's Expo 2000. This material was used to build the Byumba refugee camps in Rwanda, the Takatori Catholic Church in Kobe, and a building for the Diocese of Christchurch.

[B3] 2018 MALA (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about lesser-known architects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: FazlurSainzRahman Khan):
    This architect pioneered the bundle-tubed system while designing the Sears Tower, and he also used X-shaped bracing for the John Hancock Center. Both of these buildings are in Chicago.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucio Costa):
    This other architect designed a museum using materials from the ruins of the Church of Sao Miguel Arcanjo. He may be better known for co-designing a city whose center contains the Monumental Axis.
  Part 3 (ans: Shigeru Ban (accept either underlined portion)):
    This architect won the 2014 Pritzker Prize for his design of the Cardboard Cathedral in Christchurch. He has been praised for his creative use of materials to rebuild destroyed housing developments.

[B4] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect designed the sustainable travelling "Nomadic Museum" for an exhibition by CANADIAN artist Gregory Colbert titled Ashes and Snow. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ban Shigeru [or Shigeru Ban]):
    Name this Japanese architect, who is best known for constructing a transitional Cathedral partially out of cardboard for the Anglican Diocese of Christchurch after a 2011 earthquake.
  Part 2 (ans: environmentalists [or obvious equivalents, such as environmentalism advocates]):
    New York Times art critic Michael Kimmelman referred to Ban as an "accidental" one of these activists, who are exemplified by the director of An Inconvenient Truth, Al Gore. They generally support "green" policies.
  Part 3 (ans: The Blue Marble [prompt on partial answer]):
    This iconic photograph of the Earth taken by the crew of Apollo 17 became iconic in the environmentalist movement. Its name has been used as both byword for the Earth and the name of a series of NASA photographs.
