=== STOCK CLUES: Charles V ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 104 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 33 found, 99 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 UK Varsities (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Charles V [accept Charles I of Spain, prompt on Charles]
  - This ruler faced revolts from a rebel known as the "Hidden One", as well as from a seven-foot tall Frisian pirate named Pier Gerlofs Donia. [PWR]
  - This ruler imprisoned Francis I of France in the tower of Pizzighettone after the Battle of Pavia, which this ruler's army achieved victory at. [PWR]
  - This ruler battled with John Frederick I, Elector of Saxony, over the use of the Tetrapolitan Confession. [PWR]
  - Because of that conflict, this ruler was opposed by the (*) Schmalkaldic League. [PWR]
  - A treaty signed in Augsburg led to this ruler dividing his possessions between "Austrian" and "Spanish" branches of his family.
  - This ruler allied with Pope Leo X at the Diet of Worms  and declared Martin Luther an outlaw as a result.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish Hapsburg monarch and Holy Roman Emperor who reigned during much of the early 16th century. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain or Carlos I of Spain; prompt on Charles or Carlos; prompt on Charles I with "of which country?"]
  - This person sits beside a musician and hands an artist a paintbrush in a painting by Pierre-Nolasque Bergeret . [PWR]
  - This person kneels across from Diego Deza  at the bottom right of Francisco de Zurburan's  The Apotheosis  of Saint Thomas Aquinas . [PWR]
  - A Hans Makart painting depicting this person entering a certain city surrounded by nude virgins gained notoriety in the United States after being denounced by Anthony Comstock. [PWR]
  - The Alte Pinakothek  in Munich  houses a portrait of this person that was likely partly painted by the artist's companion (*) Lambert Sustris.
  - This person "receives the world" in an allegorical portrait by Parmigianino , and he can be seen carrying a spear in an equestrian portrait that depicts him in the aftermath of a victory at the Battle of Muhlberg .
  - For 10 points, name this Holy Roman Emperor and patron of Titian . [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Charles VI of France [or Charles the Beloved; or Charles the Mad]
  - Art historian Anne D. [PWR]
  - Hedeman analyzed the "memory images" of a "mirror of princes" written for this ruler, the Dialogues of Pierre Salmon.
  - After new taxes imposed by his dukes sparked the Harelle revolt, this ruler appointed "the Butcher" Olivier V and seven other "marmousets" as his privy council. [PWR]
  - The chapter "Danse Macabre" of Barbara Tuchman's The Distant Mirror details an event in which this ruler's brother accidentally set fire to four dancers, known as the "Ball of the Burning Men." This ruler's wife Isabeau of Bavaria attempted to mediate the (*) Armagnac-Burgundian Civil War during this ruler's reign.
  - This ruler, who suffered from the delusion that he was made of glass, died shortly after signing the Treaty of Troyes with Henry V.
  - For 10 points, name this French king, whose son of the same name ended the Hundred Years' War with the support of Joan of Arc. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain or Carlos I of Spain; prompt on Charles or Carlos] AND Suleiman I [or Suleiman the Magnificent or Suleiman the Lawgiver or Kanuni Sultan Suleyman; prompt on Suleiman] (The first line refers to the 1522 Siege of Rhodes.)
  - Two answers required.
  - With papal consent, one of these rulers donated land to Philippe Villiers de L'Isle-Adam  after a siege by the other caused L'Isle-Adam to retreat while flying a white flag that read, "In the extremity of my affliction, you are my only hope." To encourage one of these rulers to attack Venetian possessions, Jean de La Foret  spread rumors claiming the other restored the throne of Moulay Hassan.
  - On the disastrous Algiers expedition against one of these rulers, the other was accompanied by Andrea Doria.
  - An admiral for one of these rulers, Hayreddin  Barbarossa, conducted the Siege of Nice  against the other.
  - Pope Paul III organized a Holy League with one of these rulers to challenge the other's naval hegemony at the Battle of Preveza .
  - For 10 points, name these two 16th-century rulers of the Holy Roman Empire and the Ottoman Empire. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Venturi [or Robert Charles Venturi Jr.; accept Venturi, Scott Brown, and Associates]
  - This architect is compared to Howard Roark in an essay that cites Budd Schulberg's idea of "Star Quality." A giant yellow four appears at the top of a fire station designed by this architect in Columbus, Indiana.
  - This architect's partner wrote the essay "Room at the Top?
  - Sexism and the Star System in Architecture," which describes how this architect was given credit for coining the term "duck building." This architect's partner on the Sainsbury Wing of London's National Gallery refused to attend his 1991 Pritzker Prize ceremony since he was given sole awardship on projects like the Seattle Art Museum.
  - Steven Izenour, Denise Scott Brown, and this creator of the Vanna House wrote the book Learning from Las Vegas.
  - For 10 points, name this Postmodern architect who said, "Less is a bore." [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Holy Roman Emperor Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; or Carlos I; prompt on Charles or Carlos]
  - This king's court stood and applauded after Francisco Tenamaztle gave an impassioned speech about human dignity after being captured during the Mixton War, after which this king promptly threw Tenamaztle back into the dungeon, where he died.
  - This man's marriage to the sister of John the Colonizer secured support including a ship known as the Botafogo, which won renown in a naval assault during which this man's troops allegedly recovered incriminating cannonballs bearing the Fleur-de-lys.
  - This king was pressured by the papal bull (*) Sublimus Deus to convene a council where Juan de Sepulveda debated whose advocacy led this king to issue the New Laws. [PWR]
  - This king commissioned the Valladolid debates, where Bartolome de las Casas sought his recognition of indigenous rights in the New World.
  - Hernan Cortes and Francisco Pizarro led conquests under-for 10 points-what Spanish king and Holy Roman Emperor who also captured Francis I of France at Pavia? [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Charles VIII's invasion of Italy [or Charles VIII's Italian War; or the First Italian War; or the 1494 Italian War; or Charles the Affable's invasion of Italy; prompt on the Italian Wars; prompt on answers that mention Charles without specifying Charles VIII]
  - Description acceptable.
  - Sultan Cem, an Ottoman pretender, died accompanying a king in this conflict, who also bought a succession claim from Andreas Palaiologos to prepare for a planned crusade on Constantinople.
  - During this conflict, the Lord of Aubigny's cavalry and pikemen routed Gonzalo Fernandez de Cordoba's swordsmen at the Battle of Seminara.
  - Michael Howard wrote that the instigator of this conflict led the "first modern army" because it included, for the first time, a siege train whose horse-drawn bronze cannons kept pace with infantry.
  - The first recorded syphilis outbreak in Europe occurred during this conflict after an army easily took Naples.
  - A king who was encouraged to enter this conflict by Etienne de Vesc suffered a strategic defeat at the Battle of Fornovo.
  - It began after Ludovico Sforza opened Milan to a foreign army, whose successes drove the Florentine populace to embrace Girolamo Savonarola.
  - For 10 points, identify this 1494-95 conflict, a transalpine invasion by the king of France. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Charles VI of France [or Charles the Well-Beloved; or Charles the Mad; or Charles le Bien-Aime; or Charles le Fou; prompt on Charles]
  - Jean de Carrouges appealed to this king and the Parlement of Paris to overturn Jacques Le Gris's acquittal for rape, leading to a trial by combat related in Eric Jager's The Last Duel.
  - As a minor, this king suppressed the Maillotin [MY-oh-tyne] uprising against taxes imposed by his uncles, whom he later replaced as advisors with a personal clique called the "Marmousets." Riding through the forest of Le Mans, this man suddenly murdered the "Bastard of Polignac." This king and five friends showed up to a masquerade in flax-and-resin-covered "Wild Men" costumes, which disastrously caught fire during the "Ball of Burning Men." This king's wife, Isabella of Bavaria, manipulated him into signing the Treaty of Troyes [TWAH] long after he had lost authority due to his frequent bouts of madness.
  - For 10 points, name this insane Valois king who ruled France during the Hundred Years' War. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Infante Carlos [or Carlos V; or Charles V] <Edited>
  - This person refused to accept a pension in exchange for withdrawing from politics after fleeing to England, which was necessitated by this person's nephew, Michael I, losing the Liberal War. [PWR]
  - Red berets were characteristic of the armies of this person, which were commanded by the ex-Chilean Rafael Maroto in a war in which they fought under the Red Cross of Burgundy. [PWR]
  - This person refused to swear a royal oath of allegiance before his uncle died at the end of the Ominous Decade. [PWR]
  - This person's faction sought to enforce the Salic Law against the (*) Pragmatic Sanction of 1830 and aimed to defend traditional regional rights called fueros.
  - The title "Duke of la Victoria" was given to Baldomero Espartero, the general who defeated this person's forces, by queen Isabella II.
  - The conservative, pro-Catholic principles of this man's supporters were adopted by the Falangists.
  - For 10 points, name this prince, the namesake of a series of 19th century Spanish civil wars. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 FRENCH (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Charles VIII or Charles the Affable
  - Despite being in a weaker bargaining position, this man was once promised Pisa, Livorno, and 200,000 ducats to spare Florence due to the inept bargaining of the Florentine delegation. [PWR]
  - During his minority, the Treaty of Sable was signed by this man's regent and the father of his future wife.
  - This king died soon after striking his head on the lintel of a doorway. [PWR]
  - One of the strongest proponents of this man's most famous action was Etienne de Vesc. [PWR]
  - This king kept (*) Margaret of Austria in his court for two years after reneging on his engagement to her so that he could marry Anne of Brittany.
  - Called a "new Cyrus" by Savonarola, this was, for 10 points, what king of France who invaded Italy in 1494 to pursue a distant claim to the throne of Naples? [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: allegory [or word forms like allegorical, or any of the full titles: "Myth, Allegory, and Faith," Allegory of Justice, Allegorical Portrait of Charles V, Allegory of Venus and Cupid]
  - This word accompanied "Myth" and "Faith" in the title of a recent Stanford exhibition of mannerist prints.
  - Giorgio Vasari painted a helmeted woman with one arm outstretched and the other draped around an ostrich in a work titled (this word) "of Justice." A cherubic Hercules clutches a globe in a painting whose title contains the adjectival form of this word, which describes a portrait of (*) Charles V by Parmigianino. [PWR]
  - An anguished woman tears hair at left in one painting with this word in its title, and one of the title figures clutches his mother's bare breast.
  - For 10 points, name this word that titles a Agnolo Bronzino painting that is also known as "Venus, Cupid, Folly, and Time," and that refers to a type of metaphor. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Charles VIII [prompt on Charles]
  - Early in his reign, this king put down a revolt known as the Fools' War. [PWR]
  - A notable pre-revolutionary Estates General sided with this king's sister Anne de Beaujeu against the scheming Duke of Orleans. [PWR]
  - The succession crisis following the death of Matthias Corvinus enabled this man to poach his wife Anne of Brittany from her husband-by-proxy Maximilian I. [PWR]
  - A punitive expedition in this monarch's lands in response to his decision to back the pretender Perkin Warbeck was ended by the Treaty of Etaples. [PWR]
  - This man launched a campaign in which his soldiers suffered through the first recorded outbreak of syphilis in Western history. [PWR]
  - (*) Girolamo Savonarola heralded the arrival of this king in Florence as the fulfillment of a messianic prophecy, refusing to join the Holy League which Alexander VI formed to oppose this man.
  - This man died soon after his army lost the Battle of Fornovo.
  - For 10 points, name this late-15th century French king who began an invasion of Italy continued by his successors Louis XII and Francis I. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Charles Venturi Jr.
  - This architect designed a building with a hose-drying tower, inscribed with a gold No. 4, in the middle separating the equipment and living quarters, so the whole structure looks like an overturned number four.
  - One building by this architect has a window shaped like a 1930s radio speaker and features a huge number nine beside the front door.
  - This architect created Fire Station No. 4 in Columbus, Indiana while another design puts a basket-weave pattern on a fat-roofed museum addition and includes a wooden "ironic column" inside.
  - This architect of the Lieb House argued for "ugly and ordinary architecture" in a work that divided buildings into "ducks" and "decorated sheds." He created a house that exposes its chimney with a long split gable, and he bunched pilasters to create a concertina-like efect on the fac¸ade of a museum addition co-designed with his wife Denise Scott Brown.
  - This architect of the Sainsbury Wing of the British National Gallery built a powder-blue house in Philadelphia for his mother Vanna.
  - For 10 points, name this postmodern architect who designed the Seattle Art Museum and quipped "Less is a bore." [GIVE]

[T14] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charles VI [or Charles III; or Charles VII; or Charles X; or Charles the Mad; or Charles the Well-beloved; or Charles the Fat; or Charles the Well-served; or Charles the Victorious]
  - One king with this name dressed up as a wild man and was set ablaze at the appropriately-named "Ball of the Burning Men." That king with this name was one of the first monarchs to suffer from the glass delusion.
  - Another king of this name dealt with a Viking siege of his capital by buying the invaders off; that son of Louis the German was the last of the Carolingian line.
  - A later king with this name won the Burgundians over to his side with the Treaty of Arras and was crowned in 1429 thanks to Joan of Arc.
  - Another king with this name conquered Algeria and was deposed in the July Revolution.
  - For 10 points, give the name of these "Mad" and "Fat" French kings, the tenth of whom succeeded Louis XVIII. [GIVE]

[T15] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Charles VIII the Affable Valois
  - This man expelled Perkin Warbeck and agreed to pay a large indemnity at the Treaty of Etaples.
  - This man, who died after hitting his head on a low doorframe, was advised by Etienne de Vesc.
  - During his minority, his sister, Anne of Beaujeau served as regent, and she won the Mad War against a coalition of nobles that included this king's eventual successor at the Battle of Saint Aubin du Cormier.
  - This king created a jure uxoris union with Brittany by marrying Anne of Brittany, and was the final Valois monarch.
  - Savonarola supported this ruler's occupation of Florence, which he took before capturing Naples without a siege and escaping from the League of Venice at the Battle of Fovorno.
  - For 10 points, name this "affable" king of France who started the Italian Wars. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Charles Venturi
  - This architect projected a large X's and O's diagram onto his never-built Bill-Ding-Building for the National Football Hall of Fame in New Brunswick.
  - One structure designed by this architect, located near the Esherick House of one of his employers, was described by Frederick Schwartz as the "first Postmodern anything" for its monumental facade and was designed for his mother Vanna in Philadelphia.
  - Aron Vinegar's I am a Monument is a critical examination of a book co-written by this man, his wife Denise Scott Brown, and Steven Izenour that celebrated roadside decor and the strip of the title city.
  - He called for an eclectic style of "messy vitality" in his book Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture, and designed the Seattle Art Museum and the Sainsbury Wing of the National Gallery.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Learning from Las Vegas, who attacked modernism with the phrase, "less is a bore." [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Charles VII [or Charles the Well-served or Charles the Victorious or Charles le Bien-servi or Charles le Victorieux; prompt on Charles]
  - This man's mother, Isabelle of Bavaria, allied with John the Fearless of Burgundy, causing him to assume leadership of the Armagnac faction. [PWR]
  - His advisors included Arthur de Richemont, duke of Brittany, whom this man made Constable of France. [PWR]
  - This man established the liberties of the Gallic church with the Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges. [PWR]
  - He signed the Treaty of (*) Arras with Philip the Good of Burgundy and suppressed the Praguerie, a rebellion hatched against him by his son, the future Louis XI.
  - He was crowned in Reims in 1429 following a victory in which his forces were led by a person who was later captured at Compeigne and burned as a witch.
  - For 10 points, identify this French king, who won his throne by lifting the English siege of Orleans with the help of Joan of Arc. [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Don Carlos [or Carlos Maria Isidro de Borbon, conde de Molina; prompt on Carlos; prompt on Carlos V; prompt on Charles V]
  - This man was ultimately exiled when his general Rafael Maroto agreed to the Convention of Vergara. [PWR]
  - His brother-in-law Dom Miguel attempted to seize the throne of Portugal, and, like this man, was opposed by the Quadruple Alliance. [PWR]
  - After meeting his supporters in Basque country, he named Tomas de (*) Zumalacarregui as commander of his army. [PWR]
  - He was backed by the apostolicos and the Church in his 1834 campaign against his sister, Isabella II, who was viewed as more liberal.
  - For 10 points, name this son of Charles IV, whose status as pretender to the Spanish throne was supported by the original Carlists. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 MRNA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A massacre in the aftermath of this event granted amnesty to a group of Polish legionnaires who defected from the French army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Haitian Revolution [or Revolution Haitienne; accept Haitian War of Independence; accept the Haitian Revolt or Haitian Uprising or Haitian Rebellion]):
    Name this slave rebellion led by Toussaint L'Ouverture, which led to the 1804 independence of a former French colony.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Jacques Dessalines [accept Jacques I]):
    Polish defectors were spared from the 1804 massacre of French colonists by this Haitian revolutionary leader. After betraying his former ally Toussaint L'Ouverture, this man ruled as the first Emperor of Haiti.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Leclerc [or Charles Victoire Emmanuel Leclerc]):
    Polish legionnaires defected from an army formerly led by this general, Napoleon Bonaparte's brother-in-law. After this general died of yellow fever, his successor Viscount Rochambeau lost the Battle of Vertieres to Dessalines.

[B2] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This physician once publicly burned a copy of Avicenna's Canon of Medicine in the market square. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paracelsus [or Theophrastus von Hohenheim, or Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim]):
    Name this Swiss physician, who argued that humans are composed of the "principle materials" of mercury, sulfur, and salt, challenging ancient Galenic medical theories.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; accept Carlos I or Carlos V; prompt on Charles or Carlos]):
    Contemporarily with Paracelsus, Andreas Vesalius engaged in pioneering research overturning Galenic anatomy while serving as the personal physician of this Holy Roman Emperor and his son, Philip II of Spain.
  Part 3 (ans: four humors):
    Perhaps most crucially, Paracelsus rejected the Galenic theory that diseases are caused by an imbalance in these substances, which include black bile and phlegm.

[B3] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Detailed city planning policies regarding presidios and pueblos were codified by this institution in a compilation of similarly named laws issued in 1573. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Council of the Indies [or the Royal and Supreme Council of the Indies; accept Real y Supremo Consejo de las Indias]):
    Name this institution that compiled a massive survey into the Relaciones geograficas to inform its members. To address government abuses, this institution was restructured under the 1542 New Laws.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor [or Charles I of Spain; accept Carl V or Carlos V or Carlos I]):
    The Council of the Indies was founded under this ruler after the conquests of Pizarro and Cortes. The Spanish and Austrian crowns were united under this ruler.
  Part 3 (ans: Valladolid debate [or La Junta de Valladolid or La Controversia de Valladolid]):
    The Council of the Indies sought out the judges of this event, who had left it without declaring a winner. Juan Gines de Sepulveda and Bartolome de las Casas represented opposing camps during this event.

[B4] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This organization divided its territories into langues ("LAHNG") whose administration was organized by nationality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Knights Hospitaller [or Order of Hospitallers; accept Order of Knights of the Hospital of Saint John in Jerusalem or Knights of Saint John or Order of Saint John; accept Knights of Malta; prompt on Knights of Rhodes]):
    Name this organization that was forced from Rhodes after an Ottoman siege. This organization was led during that siege by Philippe Villiers de L'Isle-Adam ("vill-ee-YAY de LEEL uh-DAHM").
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; or Charles II of Burgundy; prompt on Charles]):
    The Knights Hospitaller were granted Malta by this Holy Roman Emperor in exchange for one Maltese falcon each year. This ruler faced the Protestant Reformation and passed the Spanish throne to his son Philip II.
  Part 3 (ans: Tripoli [accept County of Tripoli]):
    Charles V gave the Knights control over this city, which they ruled until 1551. This city shares its name with a county whose ruler Raymond II gave the Knights the castle of Krak des Chevaliers in 1142.

[B5] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: To protest this ruler's absence from Brussels, locals made many sexually explicit snowmen in the Miracle of 1511. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; prompt on Charles]):
    Name this ruler who lived in the city's Coudenberg Palace while governing the Low Countries. This ruler was served as regent by his aunt, Margaret, Duchess of Savoy, whom he later made governor of the Netherlands.
  Part 2 (ans: House of Habsburg [or Habsburgs]):
    Many of the snowmen built during the Miracle of 1511 depicted inequality between peasants and this ruling house to which Charles V belonged.
  Part 3 (ans: Frisia [or Friesland; or Seignory of Frisia]):
    One snowman depicted Radbod, the final king of this region, as a representation of Satan. The pirate Pier Gerlofs Donia fought a guerrilla war against Charles in this region.

[B6] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This ruler's imperialist ambitions were partially inspired by the advisor Mercurino di Gattinara, who developed them partly from Dante's treatise De Monarchia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain or Carlos I; prompt on just Charles or Carlos] (The latter adviser was William the Silent.)):
    Name this ruler who was also advised by Jean Sauvage and William of Croy. While giving a speech at his abdication, this ruler apocryphally cried on the shoulder of an adviser later killed by Balthasar Gerard.
  Part 2 (ans: Adrian of Utrecht [or Pope Adrian VI; or Adriaan Florensz Boeyens]):
    One of the earliest influences on Charles was this man who served as his first tutor. This man was previously part of the faculty at the University of Leuven and later defeated Giulio de Medici to succeed Leo X as Pope.
  Part 3 (ans: Suleiman the Magnificent [or Suleiman I; prompt on Suleiman]):
    Against the counsel of his advisers, Charles personally led an invasion of Tunis, which was under the control of this Ottoman sultan. Charles sent mercenaries to aid his brother Ferdinand in defeating this sultan's siege of Vienna.

[B7] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This conflict began after the future Pope Adrian of Utrecht was assigned to govern in the new king's absence after the raising of new taxes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Revolt of the Comuneros [or Guerra de las Comunidades de Castilla; accept the literal translation of War of the Communities of Castile]):
    Name this conflict, fought by rebels who initially supported Queen Joanna against the newly elected Holy Roman Emperor. City councils took control during this conflict, which was concurrent with the Revolt of the Brotherhoods.
  Part 2 (ans: Toledo):
    Madrid and this city were the last cities retaken during the Revolt of the Comuneros. This city was the capital of Visigothic Spain and was the chief city of medieval Castille in central Spain.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire [or Charles I of Spain; or Carlos I]):
    The Revolt of the Comuneros was fought against this Spanish king, who inherited Austria and the Low Countries and was elected Holy Roman Emperor in 1519.

[B8] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Six "Letters of Relation" were written to a ruler with this name by the conquistador Pedro de Valdivia during his conquest of modern Chile. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; or Charles of Ghent; or Archduke of Austria Charles I; or Charles II, the Duke of Burgundy and Lord of the Netherlands; accept "Carlos" or "Karl" or "Karel" or "Carles" or"Carolus" in place of "Charles"]):
    Give this name of a Holy Roman Emperor and Spanish king whose extensive dominions included Naples, Burgundy, and much of the New World.
  Part 2 (ans: Welser ("VEL-zur") family):
    Charles borrowed millions of ducats ("DUCK-its") to finance his election from the Fuggers and this other banking family from Augsburg, which claimed descent from Belisarius and founded Coro and Klein-Venedig ("kline feh-NAY-dikh") in Venezuela.
  Part 3 (ans: Seville [or Sevilla; accept Saint Isidore of Seville]):
    New World treasures reached this city, which was home to the Casa de Contratacion ("contra-tass-YON"), where the Spanish Treasure Fleet sailed from. Saint Isidore from this city authored a medieval encyclopedia.

[B9] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Edward Shorter attributed a "delusion" about being made of this material to its relative novelty in the Middle Ages and early modern Europe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: glass [or stained glass; or glass delusion]):
    Name this material, whose "stained" form was included in many European churches.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles VI (the sixth) [or Charles the Beloved; or Charles le Bien-Aime; prompt on Charles; prompt on Charles the Mad; prompt on Charles le Fou]):
    This king reinforced his clothes with iron rods due to the glass delusion he suffered that caused him to be called "The Mad." This king signed the Treaty of Troyes (twah) which attempted to disinherit his Valois (val-wah) heirs and make Henry V (the fifth) of England the next king of France.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Bavaria):
    Princess Alexandra of this kingdom believed she once swallowed a glass grand piano that was in danger of shattering inside her. The last Wittelsbach (VIT-ulz-bahk) monarch of this kingdom abdicated in the Anif (AH-nif) Declaration.

[B10] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This instrument's creator had an unrequited love for Clara Rockmore, who became one of its first virtuosos. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: theremin ("THAIR-uh-min") [or aetherphone; or thereminophone; or termenvox; or thereminvox]):
    What electronic instrument, named after its Russian creator, is played by moving one's hands around two antennas to produce electrical tones? It was often used to make spooky noises in sci-fi films.
  Part 2 (ans: Edgard Varese ("vah-REZZ") [or Edgard Victor Achille Charles Varese]):
    A fingerboard theremin, sometimes called a "theremin cello," was used by this composer in his piece Equatorial. This French composer wrote the 1936 solo flute piece Density 21.5 for Georges Barrere ("zhorzh bah-RAIR").
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Cowell [or Henry Dixon Cowell]):
    This composer collaborated with Leon Theremin in the design of the Rhythmicon, which some have called the first drum machine. This composer also wrote what he called "string piano" pieces, which require the performer to directly manipulate the piano's strings with their hands.

[B11] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Matthaus Schwarz when he wasn't asking artists to paint his butt "large and fat" for the world's first fashion book, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: bookkeeping [accept word forms such as being a bookkeeper; accept three-fold bookkeeping or double-entry bookkeeping; prompt on accounting or finance]):
    Schwarz wrote a book on the "three-fold" method of this practice. Schwarz clarified to Maximilian I that one method of this practice wasn't made by the Devil, but instead by the Franciscan monk Luca Pacioli.
  Part 2 (ans: Fuggers ("FOOG-guh") [accept the Fuggerei]):
    Schwarz worked for this family from Augsburg who feuded with the Welsers and became rich from copper mines in Tyrol. The world's oldest public housing facility in use is named for this family.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles V [or Carlos I of Spain; prompt on Charles or Carlos]):
    In 1531, Schwarz wore six snazzy outfits to this man's wedding in hopes of being made a noble. This Holy Roman Emperor convened the Diet of Worms and was the first to rule over both Spain and Austria.

[B12] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Per Norgard recalled how he snuck one of this composer's scores into a stack of student compositions that he was reviewing with Gyorgy Ligeti. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rued Langgaard [or Rud Immanuel Langgaard]):
    Name this early 20th-century Danish composer who utilized slow-moving cluster textures, as well as an entire offstage orchestra, to depict heaven in his Music of the Spheres.
  Part 2 (ans: piano [or pianoforte; accept prepared piano]):
    Music of the Spheres includes a "glissando" version of this instrument, which used similar techniques to Henry Cowell's The Banshee. Cowell's piece inspired John Cage to develop the concept of "preparing" this instrument.
  Part 3 (ans: Edgard Varese [or Edgar Varese; Edgard Victor Achille Charles Varese]):
    This French composer used a slightly evolved version of tone-clusters in his conception of "organized sound" using "sound-masses," which he employed in works like Hyperprism and Ameriques.

[B13] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the 15th-century kingmaker Yolande of Aragon, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Charles VII Valois [accept Charles the Victorious or Charles the Well-Served or Charles le Victorieux or Charles le Bien-Servi, prompt on Charles]):
    Yolande protected this man, her son-in-law, by secretly shuttling him around her castles in the Loire valley and challenged his mother Queen Isabeau to "come and take him away, if you dare." This disinherited Valois dauphin finally ascended to the French throne at the end of the Hundred Years' War.
  Part 2 (ans: Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d'Arc]):
    In 1429, Yolande encouraged the meeting of Charles and this peasant girl at her castle in Chinon, after which this girl led an effort to lift the siege of Orleans and have Charles crowned at Reims.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [or Duchy of Burgundy or Duche de Bourgogne; accept Burgundians or Bourguignons]):
    Yolande was an early supporter of the Armagnacs, who opposed a faction led by this French duchy. Under the leadership of Philip the Good, this duchy captured Joan of Arc and turned her over to the English to be executed.

[B14] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about vocal works that have been proposed as the hidden theme of Elgar's Enigma Variations.
  Part 1 (ans: "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" [or "Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott"; reject any synonyms for "fortress"]):
    Robert W. Padgett used Elgar's Mendelssohn quotation in the "* * *" ("triple asterisk") movement to support the idea that the solution is a Lutheran chorale whose title states that God is a "mighty" one of these structures.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Battista Pergolesi ("pair-go-LAY-zee")):
    In a YouTube comment, Padgett insulted Ed Newton-Rex's claim that the solution lies in this Italian composer's 1736 Stabat Mater("STAH-baht MAH-ter"). A buffa intermezzo by this composer launched the War of the Buffoons.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Villiers Stanford):
    Marcel Berlins has suggested that the theme is actually the Benedictus from the Requiem of this Irish contemporary of Elgar's. He included "The Blue Bird" in his Opus 119 part songs, and composed the most popular setting of the motet "Beati ("BAY-ah-tee") quorum via."

[B15] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Olivier de Clisson's execution of prisoners after sieges and enemy chevauchees ("shuh-vo-SHAY") launched in Brittany during the reign of this king earned him the nickname "the Butcher." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V of France [accept Charles the Wise or Charles le Sage; prompt on Charles]):
    Name this king who appointed Bertrand du Guesclin ("bair-TRAWN due gay-CLAN") as constable. This king's navy and a Castilian force under Ambrosio Boccanegra defeated the Earl of Pembroke's navy at the Battle of La Rochelle.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Poitiers ("pwaht-YAY")):
    Early in his reign, Charles V was forced to sign the humiliating Treaty of Bretigny ("bray-teen-YEE") to ransom back his father John II, who was captured after this 1356 battle won by Edward the Black Prince.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The Battle of Poitiers and the Treaty of Bretigny ended the Edwardian phase of this lengthy medieval conflict between England and France.

[B16] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Benjamin Keen examined the "Legacy" of this man, who is the subject of a canonization campaign by Helen Rand Parish. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bartolome de las Casas):
    Name this Dominican friar who was appointed Protector of the Indians. He argued against the enslavement of Native Americans in the Valladolid debate.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; prompt on Charles]):
    de las Casas' A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies vilified this Habsburg king's treatment of Native Americans. His son Philip II was also accused of committing atrocities during the Eighty Years' War.
  Part 3 (ans: David Walker):
    Many have also accused de las Casas of instigating the transatlantic slave trade, including this abolitionist who wrote An Appeal to the Coloured Citizens of the World.

[B17] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This pope issued the bull Dudum siquidem ("DOO-dum see-KEE-dem"), which automatically granted "discovered" territories to Spain and Portugal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander VI [or Rodrigo de Borgia; prompt on Alexander; prompt on Borgia]):
    Name this pope who issued three Bulls of Donation, granting Spain and Portugal rights to colonize the New World. Exaggerated accounts of the Banquet of Chestnuts were likely intended to attack this pope.
  Part 2 (ans: Sublimis deus [or Sic dilexit]):
    To remedy the effects of Spanish colonization, Paul III issued this bull, which forbade the enslavement of Native Americans and gave them rights to freedom and private property.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles V [or Holy Roman Emperor Charles V; accept Charles I of Spain; prompt on Charles]):
    Sublimis deus hugely influenced this Holy Roman Emperor in his drafting of the New Laws, which sought to limit the extent of the encomienda system. He was the father of Philip II.

[B18] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler's sack of Mordano united Italian city-states against him in the League of Venice. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles VIII ("the eighth") [or Charles the Affable; or Charles l'Affable]):
    Name this French king who invaded Italy in 1494, beginning the Italian Wars. This ruler's pyrrhic ("peer-ick") victory at Fornovo forced him to leave Italy, and he died from hitting his head on a lintel two years later without returning.
  Part 2 (ans: Naples [or Napoli]):
    Charles invaded Italy in order to press his claim to the throne of this kingdom, after the death of its king Ferdinand I. In 1504, Ferdinand II of Aragon united this kingdom with Sicily, reuniting the Two Sicilies.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludovico Sforza [prompt on Sforza]):
    This duke invited Charles to invade his enemy Naples, but soon joined the League of Venice in fear of France. This ruler armed his soldiers at Fornovo with weapons cast from bronze intended for a colossal equine statue commissioned in honor of his father.

[B19] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Francisco de Vitoria argued for the passage of these laws at Salamanca, while their creation led to a rebellion by Gonzalo Pizarro in Peru that killed the Viceroy Blasco Nunez Vela. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New Laws):
    Name this 1542 set of laws that outlawed native slavery in Spanish America and severely restricted the encomienda system.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain, accept Carlos V or I of Spain]):
    The New Laws were issued by this first Habsburg king of Spain and Holy Roman Emperor, to whom Hernan Cortes wrote a series of letters detailing his conquest of the Aztecs.
  Part 3 (ans: El Escorial):
    After Madrid became the permanent capital of Spain in 1561, this palace was built about thirty miles north of the city with revenue from American silver mines. Designed by Juan Bautista del Toledo, its floor plan may have been based either on a gridiron or on Josephus' description of the Temple of Solomon.

[B20] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Amy Beach based her only symphony on folk tunes from this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ireland [or Eire]):
    Name this country, home to poet-songwriter Thomas Moore and the inventor of the nocturne, John Field.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Villiers Stanford):
    This Anglo-Irish composer brought Irish folk elements into a late romantic style in pieces such as his five Irish Rhapsodies and seven symphonies. As a professor at the Royal College of Music and then at Cambridge, he taught both Vaughan Williams and Holst.
  Part 3 (ans: "Molly on the Shore"):
    This piece by Percy Grainger draws on two traditional reels from Cork, one of which is "Temple Hill" and the other of which shares its name with this piece. Grainger later arranged this piece for military band.

[B21] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man married Anne of Brittany even though she was already married to Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I, although Maximilian, busy with other matters, didn't seem to care. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles VIII [or Charles the Affable; prompt on "Charles"]):
    Name this French ruler who is perhaps best known for dying after accidentally striking his head on the lintel of a door, causing him to fall into a coma shortly afterwards.
  Part 2 (ans: tennis):
    Charles VIII hit his head while on his way to watch a game of this sport. The version he watched is now referred to as the "real" type of this sport, to distinguish it from the modern "lawn" variety.
  Part 3 (ans: Tour de Nesle affair):
    In another ridiculous death of French kings related to tennis, Louis X died after an exhausting game in 1316. Two years earlier, Louis's wife and the wives of his two brothers were arrested and charged with infidelity in this scandal, which proved to be a great embarrassment in the final years of Philip IV's reign.

[B22] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This woman's father, Francis II, was required to get the permission of the King of France in order to marry her off by terms of the Treaty of Sable ending the "Mad War." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anne of Brittany [prompt on Anne]):
    Name this woman, who ended her engagement to Maximilian I when the king became concerned about his realm being encircled by a powerful political couple.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles VIII [or Charles the Affable; or Charles l'Affable; prompt on Charles]):
    This was the king in question, who ended up marrying Anne before launching an invasion of Italy that was halted at Fornovo. Anne also married this ruler's successor, Louis XII, who preferred her to his previous wife Joan of France, whom Louis insisted used witchcraft to impede his sexual performance.
  Part 3 (ans: tennis court [or jeu de paume court; prompt on partial answer]):
    Charles VIII fell into a coma and died shortly after watching a sporting event in one of these places. 576 people swore an oath at one of these places during the French Revolution.

[B23] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This group was organized by Sheikh Haydar of the Safaviya tariqa who made his followers wear twelve-gored turbans of scarlet material, leading to their Turkish derived name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: qizilbash):
    Identify this largely Turcoman group of heterodox Twelvers who formed the dominant military force in the Safavid Empire.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Chaldıran [chal-duh-ran]):
    The proselytising of the Qizilbash in Anatolia was effectively ended by a decisive defeat at this 1514 battle where Shah Ismail I was wounded fighting the forces of Sultan Selim I, who captured Ismail's entire harem.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles V [accept Carlos V or Karl V, prompt on partial answers]):
    Petrus of Monte Libano was sent as an envoy of Shah Ismail I to this Holy Roman Emperor and king of Spain, who defeated Francis I at Pavia and later abdicated in favor of his son Philip II and his brother Ferdinand I.

[B24] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man signed a Treaty of Arras (ah-ROSS) with Philip the Good of Burgundy, despite his men being responsible for killing John the Fearless on Montereau Bridge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles VII [prompt on Charles]):
    Name this French monarch whose epithets include "the Victorious" and "the Well-Served." Soon after the breaking of the English siege at Orleans, he was triumphantly crowned at Reims (RANCE).
  Part 2 (ans: Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d'Arc]):
    Supposedly, the first time Charles met this woman, dubbed the "Maid of Orleans," she was able to identify him as the king despite him dressing up as a commoner.
  Part 3 (ans: Agnes Sorel (on-YES so-REL)):
    Either Jacques Cœur (kurr) or the future Louis XI may have been responsible for poisoning this mistress of Charles VII, who was the first officially recognized French royal mistress.

[B25] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Real men play real tennis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles [or:Charles VIII, Charles IX, Charles X]):
    A king of this name died after bumping his head on a door on the way to a tennis match. Another French king with this name tried unsuccessfully to besiege La Rochelle, and a third was overthrown during the July Revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: "Everything." ANSWER: the Third Estate [or: le tiers-etat; prompt on:Estates-General]):
    During the infancy of the French Revolution, 576 members of this group signed the Tennis Court Oath after being locked out of a different meeting. Abbe Emmanuel Joseph Sieyes published a pamphlet whose title asks "What is" this group - the
  Part 3 (ans: Louis X):
    This French king, whose wife Margaret of Burgundy was one of three women convicted in the Tour de Nesle affair, died after a particularly rousing game of tennis. He succeeded Philip the Fair and was known as "the Quarreler."

[B26] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This leader dealt with a revolt of the anti-feudal Comuneros at the battle of Villalar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V Habsburg [or Holy Roman Emperor Charles V; or Carlos V; or Charles I of Spain]):
    Name this Habsburg monarch of the 16th century who unified his various Iberian possessions into Spain. This rival of Francis I Valois was also Holy Roman Emperor, in which capacity he controlled the Low Countries and Austria.
  Part 2 (ans: he abdicated his rule [or he resigned; prompt on "retirement"]):
    Charles V lived in a monastery at Yuste after taking this action in 1556. This action empowered Charles's brother Ferdinand I and his son Philip II.
  Part 3 (ans: Mesta):
    Charles V dealt harshly with this order of migratory shepherds while attempting to manage Spain's economy. It was founded in Castille in the 13th century and had sway well into the 18th.

[B27] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This rebellion was led by Juan Bravo, Juan de Padilla, and Francisco Maldonado, who supported Joanna the Mad as an alternative ruler in hope that they could control her insanity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Revolt of the Comuneros [or Guerra de los Comunidades de Castilla]):
    Name this general Castillan uprising against the administration of the massive Habsburg empire from 1520-1521.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V [or Karl V; or Carolus V; or Carlos Quinto; or Charles I of Spain; or Carlos I; prompt on "Charles I"; glare at anyone who gives his insanely long list of titles, but give them points regardless]):
    The Revolt of the Comuneros took place under this ruler, who united the Spanish and German halves of the Habsburg domain into an insanely large realm until his abdication in 1556.
  Part 3 (ans: Toledo):
    This was the only city to remain in rebellion after the execution of Maldonado, Bravo, and Padilla. Padilla's wife, Maria Pacheco, led this city's defense for six more months until negotiating a peaceful surrender.

[B28] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This monarch was convinced by his advisors, including the Count of Campomanes, that the Jesuits caused the Esquilache Riots, so he proceeded to expel them from Spain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles III of Spain [or Carlos III of Spain; or Charles VII of Naples; or Charles V of Sicily]):
    Name this ruler who, while he was the 18-year-old Duke of Parma, conquered Naples and Sicily and became their king during the War of the Polish Succession.
  Part 2 (ans: absolute monarchy [accept word forms like absolutism]):
    Charles III, like his contemporary Frederick the Great, was an advocate of the "enlightened" type of this kind of unfettered monarchy. Thomas Hobbes advocated this kind of government in Leviathan.
  Part 3 (ans: Falkland Islands [or Islas Malvinas; or The Falklands]):
    Charles III almost went to war with Britain during a standoff over this territorial possession. A later fight over this possession included the Battle of Goose Greene and the capture and recapture of Stanley.

[B29] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This alliance started with an ahdname in 1536, and a full trade capitulation was granted from one side to the other in 1569. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: French-Ottoman alliance [accept in any order and other equivalent answers such as Franco-Turkish alliance or alliance between France and the Ottoman empire]):
    Name this alliance between a Christian country and Muslim empire, both of which worked together to capture Nice in 1543 because of their mutual dislike of the Hapsburgs.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V of the Holy Roman Empire [or Charles I of Spain; prompt on "Charles"]):
    An impetus behind the alliance was the power gained by this Habsburg ruler, who took the Spanish throne in 1516 and became Holy Roman Emperor three years later.
  Part 3 (ans: Corsica [or Corse]):
    In 1553, French and Ottoman forces collaborated to capture this island. Much later, France paid Genoa in the 1768 Treaty of Versailles to buy this island, which had an independence movement led by Pascal Paoli.

[B30] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This king's mistress, Agnes Sorel, was the first "favorite" to be officially recognized by a French king. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles VII [or Charles the Victorious or Charles the Well-Served or Charles le Victorieux or Charles le Bien-Servi; prompt on Charles]):
    Identify this son of Isabeau of Bavaria and ally of Arthur III, the Count of Richemont. He issued the Pragmatic Sanction of Bourges and his generals won the Battle of Castillon after securing Bordeaux.
  Part 2 (ans: Jeanne D'Arc [or Joan of Arc; prompt on The Maid of Orleans; prompt on Joan]):
    Charles was crowned in Reims in 1429 by this peasant girl, who helped rally French forces at the Siege of Orleans before being captured by the English and burnt at the stake
  Part 3 (ans: Treaty of Troyes):
    Charles' mother, Isabeau, signed this treaty in 1420, recognizing Henry V's claims to France over Charles'.

[B31] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: According to some not so reliable sources, fireworks in the shape of a dragon exploded over the Field of the Cloth of Gold, which was a meeting between this man and Henry VIII. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francis I of France):
    Identify this French king who signed the Treaty of Madrid after being defeated at the Battle of Pavia.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V):
    This Holy Roman Emperor, a son of Joanna the Mad, called the Diet of Worms and kicked Francis I's ass at the Battle of Pavia.
  Part 3 (ans: Holy League of Cognac [prompt on "Holy League"]):
    One year after the Battle of Pavia, Charles V had to battle Francis I again, who decided to form this alliance with Clement VII, Venice, Florence and many other polities. During the war against this alliance, Charles V sacked Rome.

[B32] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man supplied five ships to Ferdinand Magellan's attempt to circumnavigate the world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V [accept Charles I of Spain; prompt on Charles]):
    Name this Holy Roman Emperor during the Protestant Reformation who held the Diet of Worms. Pope Clement VII formed the Cognac League against this ruler, who frequently fought against Francis I for influence in the Italian peninsula.
  Part 2 (ans: Schmalkaldic League [Look into alternate answers]):
    This league, preceded by the League of Torgau, was formed by Lutheran princes in opposition of Charles V. Francis I would join this league, which was defeated by Charles V's forces, under the command of the 3rd Duke of Alba, at the Battle of Muhlberg.
  Part 3 (ans: Swabian League):
    This other league helped Charles V suppress the Peasants' Revolt. Fredrick III called for the formation of this league, whose last major action was the overthrow of Ulrich of Wuttenberg and the sale of his lands to Charles V.

[B33] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This king was nicknamed "the victorious", and his forces controversially assassinated the Duke of Burgundy, John the Fearless, during what was supposed to be a peaceful meeting on a bridge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles VII [prompt on Charles]):
    Name this King of France who is best remembered for fighting alongside Joan of Arc.
  Part 2 (ans: Treaty of Troyes):
    Charles VII led France against the terms of this treaty, signed after the Battle of Agincourt, which had given the French throne to Henry V and his successors.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Patay):
    Following the Siege of Orleans, Joan of Arc and the French won this great victory over the English. The famous English general, John Talbot, was captured here.
