=== STOCK CLUES: Porphyria's Lover ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: God [or obvious equivalents] (The first line references the quip "Well, Miss Barrett, when that passage was written only God and Robert Browning understood it. Now only God understands it" from The Barretts of Wimpole Street; other clues are from Pippa Passes, Sordello, "Rabbi Ben Ezra" and "Porphyria's Lover.")
  - A comedy by Rudolf Besier popularized an anecdote in which a poet tells his wife that only this character understands the meaning of a difficult passage that the poet himself has since forgotten. [PWR]
  - In a verse drama's "Evening" act, Luigi justifies an assassination attempt by claiming to hear this character's voice through the song "A king lived long ago." A statement about this character ends a song that opens, "The year's at the spring." A reference to those "doomed remain a germ" of this character from Book III of Sordello is echoed in a poem that compares this character to one who molds (*) "laughing loves" and "skull-things in order grim" upon a wheel.
  - Another poem ends with the observation that this character "has not said a word!" after the speaker strangles Porphyria with her hair.
  - For 10 points, a "song" from Pippa Passes concludes that "all's right with the world" because what figure is "in his heaven?" [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Prahasana was a genre of plays in ancient Sanskrit falling into this general category, represented by an aesthetic mood termed hasya. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: comedy [or comedies]):
    What type of theater did Aristotle write about in the lost second book of his Poetics? Shakespeare's First Folio categorized his plays as histories, tragedies, and these kinds of plays.
  Part 2 (ans: Kalidasa):
    Another Sanskrit genre, the nataka, comprised plays based on epics, like this ancient author's play The Recognition of Shakuntala, based on a story from the Mahabharata.
  Part 3 (ans: "Porphyria's Lover" (by Robert Browning)):
    Yet another genre, the bhana, was a type of play performed as a monologue. The unrelated 19th century English genre of dramatic monologues includes this poem that ends with the line "And yet God has not said a word!"

[B2] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: John Ruskin said it summarized the Renaissance with its "hypocrisy, ignorance, and [love of luxury]." For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Bishop Orders His Tomb at St. Praxed's Church"):
    Name this poem in which a man requests "peach-blossom marble" and whines to his so-called "nephews" about being cheated by old Gandolf.
  Part 2 (ans: "Porphyria's Lover"):
    In this dramatic monologue by the author of "The Bishop Orders his Tomb," a beautiful woman is strangled with her own hair, and the murderer muses over the lovely corpse.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Browning [accept "Mrs. Browning's Husband"]):
    "The Bishop Orders his Tomb" was written by this poet, whose monologues like "Porphyria's Lover" and "My Last Duchess" were collected in Dramatis Personae.

[B3] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem opens with a description of a storm that "tore the elm-tops down for spite, and did its worst to vex the lake." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Porphyria's Lover"):
    Name this poem in which "God has not said a word!" after the narrator chokes the title character with her own hair.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Browning):
    "Porphyria's Lover" was written by this Victorian poet of "My Last Duchess" and "Fra Lippo Lippi."
  Part 3 (ans: slug-horn):
    Browning's poem "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came" concludes with the title character setting this object to his lips and blowing. Chatterton was the first to use this term to refer incorrectly to an instrument.
