=== STOCK CLUES: Claes Oldenburg ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Claes Oldenburg
  - This man operated a shopfront also known as the Ray Gun Manufacturing Company, and exhibited his sculptures and found objects in the Mouse Museum.
  - This man made a weathering steel sculpture for the en-trance to SEPTA's City Hall Station which embedded the number "76" into a silvery spring.
  - For the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, he designed a piece with his partner Coosje van Bruggen which spans a linden seed-shaped pond.
  - Another piece of his, which was created with cardboard ice-cream cartons, is topped with a foam slice of pickle.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of Philadelphia's Clothespin and Spoonbridge and Cherry whose giant versions of everyday objects such as Floor Burger come in hard and soft varieties. [GIVE]

[T2] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Claes Oldenburg
  - This artist's bookplate features a spilled ink-bottle splashing across a notebook page.
  - This artist was inspired by a Native-American headdress in a Frederic Remington painting and an aerial lawn photograph reminiscent of a tennis court to create a set of four pieces for the sculpture garden at Nelson-Atkins Museum in Kansas City, which depicts large white feathers that must be repainted every year.
  - He once created a set of furry ice cream bars and originally included an infatable balloon at the top of a work that was initially installed on Beinecke Plaza.
  - This sculptor of the Shuttlecock series created a work in which blue bristles fail above a red wheel, with his longtime collaborator Coosje van Bruggen, and assembled an object in the Morse College courtyard at Yale, consisting of a tank-shaped base topped by the title red-tipped, vertical tube.
  - This artist's sculptures include Typewriter Eraser, Scale X and Lipstick Ascending on Caterpillar Tracks.
  - For 10 points, name this Swedish sculptor of sof sculptures depicting massive everyday objects. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Claes Oldenburg
  - In a collaborative show with Jim Dine, this man included his newspaper and wire based "Empire" Ray Gun.
  - In 1986 this artist put on The Course of the Knife in Venice's Arsenale.
  - That show may be considered an evolution of a style of non-verbal artistic performances this artist referred to as "Happenings." Other works of this man include one built on top of a building in Cologne, and a piece that in 1994 dangled from a railing in the Guggenheim.
  - Those sculptures are among the large number of works by this man that are just everyday objects blown up to a massive scale, such as a work on the Yale campus of giant make-up sitting on tank treads.
  - For 10 points, name this sculptor of such works as Dropped Cone, Giant Soft Shuttlecock, and Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Ta-coumba T. Aiken and Seitu Jones placed silhouettes on sidewalks in this city to commemorate influential figures in their artwork Shadows at the Crossroads. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Minneapolis, Minnesota [prompt on Twin Cities; reject "St. Paul"]):
    Name this city whose sculpture garden contains a large yellow version of an artist's Geometric Mouse-Scale A; that sculpture garden in this city contains a curved stainless steel sculpture that straddles a small pond.
  Part 2 (ans: Claes Oldenburg ("CLASS OLD-en-burkh")):
    The Walker Art Center commissioned this Swedish-born sculptor and his wife Coosje van Bruggen ("KOH-shuh fon BRUH-hin") to sculpt Spoonbridge and Cherry for the Minneapolis Sculpture Garden.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Calder):
    The Minneapolis Sculpture Garden contains a black steel sculpture titled Octopus by this artist of mobiles ("moh-beels") such as Lobster Trap and Fish Tail.

[B2] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about some Dutch sculptors, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Claes Oldenburg ("KLAHSS OLD-en-burkh")):
    The Dutch artist Coosje van Bruggen ("KOH-shuh fon BRUH-hin") was the wife and collaborator of this American sculptor, who worked with her on public art pieces like Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks and Spoonbridge and Cherry.
  Part 2 (ans: strandbeesten ("STRAWND-baste-uh")):
    Theo Jansen ("TAY-oh YAWN-sen") makes kinetic sculptures out of PVC that resemble animals and which are able to walk along the beach, propelled by the wind. Those sculptures have this Dutch name.
  Part 3 (ans: Moses [accept Well of Moses]):
    The much earlier sculptor Claus Sluter designed a "well" named for this Old Testament character, who is depicted with horns on his head in a Michelangelo sculpture.

[B3] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of four essays by Brian O'Doherty popularized the use of phrase "white cube" to describe the minimalism of these places. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: art gallery [or museums; or equivalents; or the Iris Clert Gallery]):
    Name these places. An O'Doherty essay titled for these places "as a Gesture" discusses how one of these places was presented by itself in Yves Klein's ("eev klyne's") The Void, which was parodied by the French artist Arman with his piece The Full.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    O'Doherty also discusses this artist's creation of the installations 1,200 Coal Bags and Mile of String for two Surrealist exhibitions. One of this Dadaist's "readymades" is a urinal signed "R. Mutt."
  Part 3 (ans: Claes Oldenburg):
    O'Doherty groups this artist's recreation of a bedroom with pieces by Edward Kienholz and George Segal. This Pop artist is known for his giant versions of mundane objects, such as Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks.

[B4] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Part of a sculpture by this artist was eaten by members of Penn Quizbowl. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Felix Gonzalez-Torres):
    Name this Cuban-American artist who represented the death of his partner Ross from AIDS via billboards showing only an empty bed, as well as a dwindling pile of hard candies which visitors can consume over time.
  Part 2 (ans: Claes Oldenburg):
    Food Burger, an enormous sculpture by this artist, is less edible since it is made of rubber and canvas. This artist of an upside-down ice cream Dropped Cone created many idiosyncratic sculptures such as Lipstick Ascending on Caterpillar Tracks and Penn's giant "button."
  Part 3 (ans: Chicago):
    "The Bean" is the nickname of the extremely inedible, shiny, legume-shaped Cloud Gate, an Anish Kapoor work in this city's Millenium Park. This city contains Alexander Calder's Flamingo and the Sears Tower.

[B5] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Stuck for ideas for your next sculpture? Just take the first thing you see and make it really, really big. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claes Oldenburg):
    With his wife Coosje van Bruggen, this artist has produced sculptures like Spoonbridge and Cherry, a 16-metre spoon with a cherry on the edge, as well as large bows-and-arrows, ice-creams and shuttlecocks.
  Part 2 (ans: Marc Quinn):
    This British artist's works include a monumental ten-metre long sculpture of his baby son at Chatsworth House, as well as some colossal depictions of a contorted Kate Moss in his Sphinx and Siren series.
  Part 3 (ans: eggs):
    Jeff Koons' sculptures include several oversized versions of "cracked" steel examples of these objects. Peter Carl Faberge is best known for his jewel-encrusted versions of these objects.

[B6] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks is located at Yale University. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claes Oldenburg):
    Name this artist, who collaborated with his wife Coosje van Bruggen to create Dropped Cone, a huge vanilla scoop on top of a Cologne shopping center.
  Part 2 (ans: Wayne Thiebaud):
    This painter created Four Ice Cream Cones in 1964 and is known for painting sequences of cupcakes, lipstick, gumball machines, watermelons, and other everyday objects.
  Part 3 (ans: pop art):
    Both Oldenburg and Thiebaud are often associated with this art movement, whose members included images of mass culture in their works. Andy Warhol was also a member of this movement.

[B7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Since the 1970s, this sculptor of the installations Apple Core and Knife Slicing Through Wall has collaborated on most of his work with his wife Coosje van Bruggen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Claes Oldenburg):
    Name this Swedish-born American sculptor of Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks, who participated in the Pop Art movement.
  Part 2 (ans: Yale University):
    Oldenburg's Lipstick is in a courtyard at this university, whose buildings include a free-of-charge art gallery designed by Louis Kahn and a hockey rink designed by Eero Saarinen nicknamed "The Whale."
  Part 3 (ans: soft):
    Many of Oldenburg's sculptures depict distorted household objects described by this adjective. His subjects modified by this adjective include a toilet, a screw, a bathtub, and a shuttlecock.

[B8] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Agricola series by this artist repurposes old farm machinery to depict farmers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Smith):
    Name this modernist American sculptor who welded stainless steel cubes and cylinders together in his Cubi series. The eleventh and twenty-sixth entries in that series can be found in the National Gallery of Art.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    The "Cubes and Anarchy" exhibition of David Smith's work occurred in the Whitney Museum in this city. This city is also home to the Guggenheim and the Museum of Modern Art.
  Part 3 (ans: Claes Oldenburg):
    The Whitney also contains a sculpture of a giant BLT sandwich by this artist, whose other works include Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks at Yale.
