=== STOCK CLUES: Rizal ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Answer: Isaac Luria [or Yitzchak Luria or the Arizal or Ha'Ari or Ha'Ari Hakodosh] (The disciple in the lead-in is Israel Sarug.)
  - A disciple of this thinker discussed one of his ideas in terms of a "folded garment" with 231 "gates." A process discussed by this thinker begins with the formation of the Father and the Small Face among other "faces" in the world of emanation. [PWR]
  - This thinker imagined a cosmic catastrophe in which light emanated from the Primordial Man and then shattered the vessels that were meant to receive it, causing sparks to be trapped in "husks" called (*) qlippoth . [PWR]
  - This thinker lived in Safed and taught Chaim Vital, who collected his teachings like tikkun olam in the book Etz Chaim.
  - According to this thinker, creation began when Ein Sof, the Infinite, performed an act of "withdrawal" or "contraction" called tzimtzum.
  - For 10 points, name this 16th-century rabbi known as "the lion" who pioneered a namesake branch of Kabbalah. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda; prompt on Realonda]
  - In a novel by this author, a "yellowish individual" is crushed by the stone he drops from a crane in a plot to kill the protagonist at the dedication of a school building.
  - Dr.
  - Ferdinand Blumentritt is exclusively famous for his letters to this author, whose idea of the "devil of comparisons" is invoked in several books by Benedict Anderson.
  - In a novel by this author, a jeweler disguised with blue goggles plans to use a pomegranate-shaped lamp to smuggle dynamite into a wedding feast.
  - A dedication by this author vows to use the ancient method of placing the sick on temple steps to treat his country's "social cancer." The friars Salvi and Damaso scheme against the beloved of Maria Clara in a novel this author followed up with El Filibusterismo .
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Juan Ibarra in Noli me Tangere , a national hero of the Philippines. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Jos´e Rizal
  - Charles Derbyshire did a popular translation of this author's most famous poem, which is inscribed on a bronze monu-ment designed by Richard Kissling titled Motto Stella.
  - In that poem's frst stanza the speaker proclaims, "Gladly now I go to give thee this faded life's best, / And were it brighter, fresher, or more blest, / Still would I give it thee, nor count the cost" before concluding, "Beloved creatures all, farewell!
  - In death there is rest!" This author wrote a novel whose protagonist leaves a nitroglycerin-packed lamp set to explode afer twenty minutes as a wedding present afer returning to his home country disguised as the jeweler Simoun.
  - This author wrote "Mi Ultimo Adios" the day before his execution and penned a novel in which Captain Tiago raises Maria Clara and the evil friar Padre Damaso persecutes Crisostomo Ibarra.
  - El Filibusterismo is the sequel to his novel titled afer the Latin words Jesus spoke to Mary Magdalene.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote Noli Me Tangere and is the national hero of the Philippines. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author of this ethnicity wrote an essay about Norman Rockwell's Freedom from Want that was published alongside the painting in The Saturday Evening Post. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Filipino-American [accept Pinoy; prompt on Asian-American]):
    Name this ethnicity of the author who wrote the novel America Is in the Heart based on his experiences as an immigrant.
  Part 2 (ans: The Grapes of Wrath):
    The depiction of Great Depression-era farm work in Carlos Bulosan's America Is in the Heart has led to it drawing comparisons to this novel by John Steinbeck about the Joad family.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Rizal):
    In America Is in the Heart, the narrator asks if there is a Moses of the Philippines and is told "Yes, ... his name is [this author]." This Filipine national hero wrote the novels El filibusterismo and Noli Me Tangere.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Gina Apostol's novel The Revolution According to Raymundo Mata, Raymundo pretends to be a patient seeking treatment for blindness as part of a scheme to meet this exiled author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Rizal (ree-zahl)):
    Name this author of El filibusterismo, who described how the reformer Crisostomo Ibarra attempts to marry Maria Clara and aid Elias's revolutionary schemes in another novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Catholic priest [or clergy; or friar; or father; or padre; prompt on teacher]):
    Raymundo Mata is introduced to Rizal's work by a man with this job, one of whom fathers Maria Clara in Noli me tangere. In another novel, the mestizo betrays an alcoholic man with this job in Mexico.
  Part 3 (ans: Republic of Cuba [or Republica de Cuba]):
    In El filibusterismo, Ibarra returns to the Philippines after fighting for this country's independence from Spain. Poetry by this country's writer and independence supporter Jose Marti was adapted into the song "Guantanamera."

[B3] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem was legendarily hidden inside an alcohol stove and smuggled out of its author's prison cell the day before his execution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mi ultimo adios" [or "My Last Farewell"]):
    Name this poem whose speaker calls their country "my adored Land, region of the sun caressed" and proclaims "to die is to rest" after saying goodbye to their loved ones.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    "Mi ultimo adios" was written by this poet who wrote about the "fair hope of my fatherland" in "To the Philippine Youth." This author wrote about the mestizo Crisostomo Ibarra in Noli Me Tangere.
  Part 3 (ans: Tagalog [accept Filipino]):
    Rizal is often falsely attributed as the writer of "Sa Aking Mga Kabata," which calls for the usage of this language of the Philippines. Rizal wrote mostly in Spanish instead of this native language of a namesake ethnic group.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was credited with popularizing a folktale in which a cunning turtle feeds a monkey's corpse to its friends before tricking them all into drowning. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda] (The folktale is "The Monkey and the Turtle" and the novel is Noli Me Tangere.)):
    Name this author who wrote El filibusterismo as a sequel to his novel in which Maria Clara chooses to become a nun after the death of the mestizo Crisostomo Ibarra.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote (The Unamuno essay is "Rizal: The Tagalog Hamlet." Joaquin's pen name was "Quijano de Manila.")):
    Nick Joaquin, a Filipino author who wrote about Rizal, used a pen name inspired by this character. An essay by Miguel de Unamuno claims that Rizal is an Oriental version of this gentleman of La Mancha created by Cervantes.
  Part 3 (ans: firing squad [prompt on execution; prompt on getting shot]):
    Rizal wrote the poem "Mi ultimo adios," or "My Last Farewell," before dying in this manner. One Hundred Years of Solitude opens with Colonel Aureliano Buendia facing death in this manner.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this series becomes a journalist after he marries the Chinese activist Mei, who dies of malaria in the novel Footsteps. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buru Quartet [or Buru Tetralogy or Tetralogi Buru] (Pramoedya Ananta Toer wrote the series, whose first novel is This Earth of Mankind.)):
    Name this series whose first novel describes the protagonist's courtship of Annelies ("ah-nuh-LEESE"), and the subsequent invalidation of their marriage due to her illegitimacy as a concubine's mixed-race daughter.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal ("ree-SAHL") [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    The protagonist of the Buru Quartet is compared to this author for being a well-educated rebel. This author created the mestizo Crisostomo Ibarra and his lover, Maria Clara.
  Part 3 (ans: execution by firing squad [accept being shot or killed with guns or similar descriptions] (Gabriel Garcia Marquez wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.)):
    Soldiers in the Indonesian National Revolution often recited Rizal's "My Last Farewell," a poem written before his execution in this manner. Colonel Buendia ("bwen-DEE-ah") faces this manner of execution at the start of One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B6] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Three authors from this country collaborated on an anthology translated into English as The Book of Fantasy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]):
    Name this country, home to a novelist who wrote of a machine that allows the title character to live with Faustine forever in The Invention of Morel.
  Part 2 (ans: UNESCO [or United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization]):
    The Book of Fantasy was edited in part by Silvina Ocampo, whose sister Victoria founded the influential magazine Sur. Victoria's villa is now a cultural center managed by this UN agency, whose creations include the Collection of Representative Works and a list of World Heritage Sites.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    The unrelated Ambeth Ocampo discovered this author's unfinished novel Makamisa. This author introduced the idealized Maria Clara in a novel whose sequel describes Crisostomo Ibarra disguising himself as the jeweler Simoun.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The "Mother of the Phillippine Red Cross" Trinidad Tecson joined this organization through the sanguno ritual, in which participants would drink their own blood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Katipunan [accept the Kataastaasan, Kagalanggalangang Katipunan ng mga Anak ng Bayan; accept the KKK]):
    Name this secret society whose leader tore up tax certificates during the Cry of Balintawak, which kickstarted a Revolution in 1896.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal):
    Katipunan's revolt was further enflamed by the execution of this ophthalmologist at Bagumbayan. The Propaganda Movement and the progressive newspaper La Solidaridad published this man's novels Noli Me Tangere and El Filibusterismo.
  Part 3 (ans: Spain [accept Kingdom of Spain or Espana]):
    Rizal denounced the bandala, which was a remnant of the mercantilist system and involved sending local products to this colonial power. This colonial power ceded rights to the Philippines to the United States in the 1898 Treaty of Paris.

[B8] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's virtuous, perpetually sick character Maria Clara was inspired by his star-crossed lover Leonor Rivera. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    Name this author of a novel in which Maria Clara's lover, Crisostomo Ibarra, is arrested for leading a rebellion with which he had no involvement after he returns to his hometown to start a school.
  Part 2 (ans: Catholicism [or Catholic Church; prompt on Christianity]):
    A villainous member of this religious sect is revealed to be Maria Clara's real father in Rizal's novel Noli me tangere. A whiskey-loving member of this denomination fathers Brigitta in Graham Greene's novel The Power and the Glory.
  Part 3 (ans: execution by firing squad [prompt on execution or being shot] (The unnamed novel is One Hundred Years of Solitude.)):
    Rizal wrote the poem "My Last Farewell" just days before dying in this manner. In the opening line of a novel, a man recalls discovering ice with his father while he prepares to die in this way.

[B9] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The collapse of a derrick bearing a block of granite nearly kills this character during the inauguration of a school. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crisostomo Ibarra [accept either underlined portion; or Juan Crisostomo Ibarra y Magsalin]):
    Name this man who frequently clashes with Father Damaso, who schemes to prevent his marriage with the presumed daughter of Captain Tiago. This man later resurfaces as the jeweler Simoun and leads a failed revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    Ibarra is the protagonist of this Filipino writer's novel Noli Me Tangere. This man penned the poem "My Last Farewell" shortly before the Spanish executed him by firing squad.
  Part 3 (ans: the writing on the wall [or Belshazzar's feast]):
    In the novel El Filibusterismo, Rizal alludes to this episode from the Old Testament when Simoun laces Captain Tiago's house with explosives and leaves a warning reading "Mene, Thecel, Pares" ("men-AY tek-ELL PAH-ress").

[B10] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: This rabbi's death is commemorated on Lag B'Omer ("LOG buh-OH-mair"), during which it is customary to light bonfires and for children to play with bows and arrows. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Simeon bar Yochai ("yoh-HY") [or Simeon ben Yohai; or Rashbi, but be careful not to accept "Rashi"]):
    Name this rabbi, who is traditionally credited with writing the Zohar, which was more likely written by Moses de Leon. He was said to have hid inside a cave for thirteen years, living off the fruit of a miraculous carob tree.
  Part 2 (ans: Kabbalah):
    The Zohar is an important text in this Jewish mystical tradition. This tradition is often concerned with the relationships between the ten sephirot ("suh-fee-ROTE"), which are emanations from Ein Sof ("ane SOHF"), the infinite god.
  Part 3 (ans: Isaac ben Solomon Luria [or HaAri or Arizal]):
    Another influential teacher in Kabbalah was this man, whose ideas were collected by Chaim Vital ("KHAH-yeem vee-TAHL") in the Etz Chayim ("etts KHAH-yeem"). This man taught that creation arose when God contracted himself during tzimtzum ("tseem-TSOOM").

[B11] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man wrote the novels El Filibusterism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Rizal):
    Name this Filipino nationalist and national hero who was executed by firing squad. He founded La Liga Filipina.
  Part 2 (ans: Katipunan (accept KKK but only if it is clearly not a random guess)):
    Rizal supported this armed Catholic group which sought independence from Spain and formed the first real constitutional state in the Philippines. They were founded by Andres Bonifacio and wore robes which they believed protected them from bullets.
  Part 3 (ans: The USA):
    The first Philippine republic was ended by military defeat against this nation of which it was a territory until 1946.

[B12] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer's friend Mariano Ponce gave a title to one of his poems, in which he declares "I'll go where there are no slaves, tyrants, or hangmen." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Rizal [Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    Name this writer-slash-ophthalmologist who wrote about Crisostomo Ibarra, who comes into conflict with the corrupt Father Damaso because of the latter's hatred of his father Rafael.
  Part 2 (ans: Spanish [or espanol]):
    Rizal wrote his works in this language, whose standards are overseen by the Royal Academy in Madrid.
  Part 3 (ans: Hong Kong [or Xianggang]):
    Rizal spent some time in exile in this Chinese city, where Louis Cha wrote many wuxia novels, like his Condor Trilogy, under the pen name Jin Yong. It is also the setting of James Clavell's novel Tai-Pan.

[B13] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Sisa goes insane and dies after her sons Crispin and Basilio are accused of stealing from a convent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Noli Me Tangere):
    Name this novel, which ends with the death of the revolutionary Elias. It focuses on the relationship between Maria Clara and Cristostomo Ibarra, who is jailed after being falsely accused of being the mastermind behind a revolt.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal):
    Noli Me Tangere was written by this Filipino nationalist, who also wrote El Filibusterismo before being shot by a firing squad in 1896.
  Part 3 (ans: Padre Damaso Verdolagas [or Father Damaso Verdolagas; or Damaso Verdolagas]):
    This antagonist of Noli Me Tangere excommunicates Ibarra after goading him to violence by insulting his father. This corrupt, fat friar is also the illegitimate father of Maria Clara.

[B14] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of this novel, readers learn that Father Salvi regularly used Captain Tiago's daughter, a nun, for sex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Noli Me Tangere [or Touch Me Not]):
    Name this novel in which Frey Damaso convinces Tiago to disallow Maria Clara from marrying the protagonist after that protagonist gets excommunicated from the Catholic Church.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose [Protacio] Rizal [Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    This Filipino author and revolutionary wrote Noli Me Tangere and its sequel, El Filibusterismo.
  Part 3 (ans: Ocampo [Those writers are Ambeth, Silvia, and Victoria Ocampo.]):
    Ambeth, a scholar with this last name, tried to reconstruct the final novel of Jose Rizal. Other authors with this surname include the only female who helped compile The Book of Fantasy, and a sibling of that author who published the literary magazine Sur.

[B15] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer was conversant in 22 languages, and his namesake law mandates that every school in his native country must offer courses about him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Protacio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda):
    This man wrote about a San Diego landlord, Capitan Tiago, and the son of a businessman, Ibarra, in Noli Me Tangere, as well as the sequel El Filibusterismo.
  Part 2 (ans: Mi ultimo adios [accept My Final Farewell and other close equivalents]):
    Rizal wrote this poem the night before his execution. This poem was later read to the U. S. Congress by Henry Cooper.
  Part 3 (ans: The Philippines):
    Rizal was executed by the Spanish on December 30, 1896, because he desired greater autonomy for this country. Other authors from this country include Francisco Balagtas, who wrote Florante at Laura in Tagalog.

[B16] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man wrote about Spanish abuses in his country in novels like The Social Cancer and The Reign of Greed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda):
    Identify this nationalist who wrote a "Last Farewell" before being executed at Fort Santiago in 1896. His country would eventually be ruled by native-born leaders like Ferdinand Marcos.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of the Philippines [or Pilipinas]):
    Rizal sought reforms, although not independence, for this modern day nation. Its capital, located on the island of Luzon, was largely destroyed during World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: Hukbalahap Rebellion):
    The namesake Communist group in this post-war rebellion in the Philippines fought the Japanese after the fall of Bataan. President Manuel Roxas adopted a "mailed fist" policy against this group.

[B17] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's speaker hopes that a bird landing on his marker will sing "a song of peace," and announces that he goes where there are "no hangmen / Where faith does not kill, where the one who reigns is God." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mi Ultimo Adios" [or "My Last Farewell;" accept any variations involving the phrase "Last Farewell" as translations differ]):
    Identify this poem that ends "Farewell to all I love. To die is to rest," whose title arose organically after it was recovered untitled by the author's close friends and family.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal):
    This national hero and major literary figure of the Philippines wrote "Mi Ultimo Adios" shortly before his execution for supporting the Katipunan. He is best known for his novel Noli me Tangere and its sequel, El Filibusterismo.
  Part 3 (ans: The Grapes of Wrath):
    Another major Filipino author, Carlos Bulosan, is best known for describing his immigration to the U.S. in America is in the Heart, a work often compared to this John Steinbeck novel about the Joad family's flight from the Dust Bowl.
