=== STOCK CLUES: Noli me Tangere ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Noli Me Tangere [accept Touch Me Not]
  - During a thunderstorm, a character in this novel nicknamed either the Lunatic or the Sage debates the philosophy of purgatory. [PWR]
  - The 25th chapter of this novel was omitted from the original edition and is commonly referred to as Chapter X ["ex"]. [PWR]
  - In this novel, a gravedigger explains throwing the disinterred corpse of a character's father into a lake by claiming that "it is better to drown than to be with the Chinese." A 1950s law made this novel and its sequel required reading in schools, though (+) Church opposition meant most students only ever read a heavily redacted version. [PWR]
  - A young boy in this novel is told to "forget not those who have fallen during the night" by the realist Elias.
  - In this novel, Maria Clara gives up a farewell letter used to convict Crisostomo Ibarra for a failed rebellion.
  - For 10 points, (*) El Filibusterismo is the sequel to what Filipino protest novel by Jose Rizal? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's depiction of Crisostomo's failed revolution and framing by colonial authorities using Maria Clara's letter later inspired a real revolution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Noli me Tangere):
    Name this novel. The Rizal law mandates that every high school student read this novel as well as its sequel El Filibusterismo.
  Part 2 (ans: Philippines):
    Noli me Tangere is a national epic from this country, whose author Jose Rizal was executed during its revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Nick Joaquin):
    This Filipino author combined magical realism with Filipino history in his short story "May Day Eve" and novel The Woman who Had Two Navels.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was credited with popularizing a folktale in which a cunning turtle feeds a monkey's corpse to its friends before tricking them all into drowning. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda] (The folktale is "The Monkey and the Turtle" and the novel is Noli Me Tangere.)):
    Name this author who wrote El filibusterismo as a sequel to his novel in which Maria Clara chooses to become a nun after the death of the mestizo Crisostomo Ibarra.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote (The Unamuno essay is "Rizal: The Tagalog Hamlet." Joaquin's pen name was "Quijano de Manila.")):
    Nick Joaquin, a Filipino author who wrote about Rizal, used a pen name inspired by this character. An essay by Miguel de Unamuno claims that Rizal is an Oriental version of this gentleman of La Mancha created by Cervantes.
  Part 3 (ans: firing squad [prompt on execution; prompt on getting shot]):
    Rizal wrote the poem "Mi ultimo adios," or "My Last Farewell," before dying in this manner. One Hundred Years of Solitude opens with Colonel Aureliano Buendia facing death in this manner.

[B3] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Lavinia Fontana's rendition of this scene, Jesus is unusually shown with a straw hat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Noli me Tangere):
    Name this scene also painted by Correggio in which Christ is often depicted with some sort of gardening tool. Titian's early paintings include a version of this scene in which Christ is barely covered with a white cloak.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Magdalene [accept The Penitent Magdalene; do not accept or prompt on "Mary" or "Virgin Mary" or "Madonna"]):
    Jesus is usually shown saying "noli me tangere" to this Biblical woman, who is shown "with a smoking flame" in a chiaroscuro painting by Georges de la Tour ("zhorzh duh la toor").
  Part 3 (ans: Donatello [or Donato di Niccolo di Betto Bardi]):
    This man used wood for an emaciated-looking Penitent Magdalene clasping her hands. This 15th-century sculptor from Florence produced a famous bronze David.

[B4] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Sisa goes insane and dies after her sons Crispin and Basilio are accused of stealing from a convent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Noli Me Tangere):
    Name this novel, which ends with the death of the revolutionary Elias. It focuses on the relationship between Maria Clara and Cristostomo Ibarra, who is jailed after being falsely accused of being the mastermind behind a revolt.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal):
    Noli Me Tangere was written by this Filipino nationalist, who also wrote El Filibusterismo before being shot by a firing squad in 1896.
  Part 3 (ans: Padre Damaso Verdolagas [or Father Damaso Verdolagas; or Damaso Verdolagas]):
    This antagonist of Noli Me Tangere excommunicates Ibarra after goading him to violence by insulting his father. This corrupt, fat friar is also the illegitimate father of Maria Clara.

[B5] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of this novel, readers learn that Father Salvi regularly used Captain Tiago's daughter, a nun, for sex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Noli Me Tangere [or Touch Me Not]):
    Name this novel in which Frey Damaso convinces Tiago to disallow Maria Clara from marrying the protagonist after that protagonist gets excommunicated from the Catholic Church.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose [Protacio] Rizal [Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    This Filipino author and revolutionary wrote Noli Me Tangere and its sequel, El Filibusterismo.
  Part 3 (ans: Ocampo [Those writers are Ambeth, Silvia, and Victoria Ocampo.]):
    Ambeth, a scholar with this last name, tried to reconstruct the final novel of Jose Rizal. Other authors with this surname include the only female who helped compile The Book of Fantasy, and a sibling of that author who published the literary magazine Sur.

[B6] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The model for the title high-priced whore of this painting was also the model for the Darnstadt Madonna and is in the same setting as the artist of this painting's Venus and Amor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lais of Corinth):
    Name this painting in which the title woman holds out her hand, likely to request more coins to add to her small pile of gold which is titled with an inscription on the edge of the stone table.
  Part 2 (ans: Hans Holbein, the Younger):
    Lais of Corinth was painted by this artist, who included a funky looking skull in his double portrait of Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve.
  Part 3 (ans: Noli me tangere):
    Holbein also painted this scene, in which the resurrected Jesus is urged to stay back, with the title phrase, by a terrified Mary Magadalene, who is holding an urn as two angels sit around in the opened tomb.
