=== STOCK CLUES: Andrew Jackson ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 60 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 24 found, 71 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Geography
     Answer: Andrew Jackson [accept Jackson, Mississippi; accept Jacksonville, Florida; accept Jackson Square, New Orleans, Louisiana]
  - Note to players: The answer is a person, but the names of places referenced are also acceptable.
  - The banks of a section of the Pearl River north of a city named for this person are home to LeFleur's Bluff State Park. [PWR]
  - The Cummer Museum is located in a city named for this person that hosts the Gate River Run. [PWR]
  - The St. [PWR]
  - Louis Cathedral is adjacent to a so-called "square" named for this person in New Orleans. [PWR]
  - In a city named for this person home to the Eudora Welty House, the August 2022 failure of the O.B. [PWR]
  - Curtis plant led to a (*) water crisis.
  - A city named for this person is the eastern terminus of I-10, which merges with I-95 to cross the St.
  - Johns River.
  - In 2030, the U.S.
  - Treasury will start phasing out currency with this person on it in favor of currency featuring Harriet Tubman.
  - For 10 points, identify this former president who lends his name to the most populous city proper in Florida, as well as the capital of Mississippi. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: busts [or portrait busts; accept heads until read; prompt on statues or sculptures until read; prompt on portraits until read] (The second line refers to Hiram Powers's portrait bust of Andrew Jackson.)
  - Exaggerated works in this form, such as a grimacing Vexed Man squeezing his eyes shut, were created by Franz Messerschmidt. [PWR]
  - Andrew Jackson removed his false teeth while sitting for a work in this form praised for its realism. [PWR]
  - This form, used for a scowling depiction of an old man from Otricoli, inspired Neoclassicists such as an artist who created non-seated portraits with and without wigs of an aging author in this form; those are Houdon's portraits of (*) Voltaire. [PWR]
  - A modern, more abstract portrait in this form with large almond-shaped eyes depicting Mademoiselle Pogany was created by Constantin Brancusi.
  - An older sculpture in this form is missing a piece of quartz in one eye and sports a strikingly long neck.
  - For 10 points, Nefertiti was sculpted in what form, which includes the upper body and head? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Andrew Jackson
  - In Pennsylvania, protectionist Friedrich List supported this politician in the German-language newspaper "Der Readinger Adler." The editor of the Argus of Western America switched allegiances to this politician, with whom he devised a national system that had a "uniform circulating medium." This president authorized US marshals to arrest violators of federal law who had not been arrested by states with a "force bill." Excessive land speculation led this president to issue the specie circular.
  - The devaluation of poorly-backed paper currency caused by this president's abolition of the Second Bank of the United States led to a financial crisis.
  - For 10 points, the Panic of 1837 was caused by the policies of what US president who ended the nullification crisis and signed the Indian Removal Act? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Andrew Jackson [or "King Andrew the First"; or "General Jackson Slaying the Many Headed Monster"]
  - In "Symptoms of a Locked Jaw", this man sits on a chair as his mouth is sewn shut.
  - This man exclaims "I'll cut stick and fly to Araby!" while recoiling from a flying cape in another image.
  - Another image shows Jack Downing dropping an axe and this man raising a cane against a head wearing a top hat.
  - Thomas Nast drew a statue of this man riding a pig with the inscription "To the Victors Belong the Spoils." Another cartoon calls this man a "general" "slaying the many headed monster." Whigs circulated a cartoon of this man surrounded by phrases such as "HAD I BEEN CONSULTED" and "BORN TO COMMAND." In that cartoon, this man steps on the Constitution and a document labeled "internal improvements" and "U.S.
  - Bank." For 10 points, name this President depicted as a "king" in a political cartoon used against him during the 1832 election. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Andrew Jackson [prompt on Old Hickory]
  - The post office robber George Wilson was executed after refusing a pardon from this president. [PWR]
  - Under this president's administration, one man was arrested after collaborating with Elias Boudinot  on a translation of the Bible.
  - Arthur Schlesinger won his first Pulitzer Prize for a book about this president. [PWR]
  - After Thomas Hart (*) Benton vehemently  denied rumors that this president would appoint him to the Supreme Court, this president appointed Roger Taney  instead.
  - This president said "John Marshall has made his decision; now let him enforce it" after a case in which state jurisdiction over Cherokee land was challenged.
  - That case during this president's tenure was Worcester v.
  - Georgia.
  - For 10 points, name this president under whom the Indian Removal Act was passed, leading to the Trail of Tears. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Andrew Jackson
  - A policy carried out by this president was opposed by Jeremiah Evarts, who circulated essays written under the pseudonym "William Penn" to lobby against it. [PWR]
  - An attempted assassin of this man tried to kill him at the funeral of Warren Evans. [PWR]
  - The editor John Binns attacked this politician's supposed execution of six militiamen in the Coffin Handbill. [PWR]
  - Other than postmaster general Amos (*) Kendall, this president mostly ignored the advice of his kitchen cabinet.
  - This politician beat his attempted assassin, Richard Lawrence, with his cane.
  - This man fought with Nicholas Biddle over the renewal of the Second Bank of the United States' charter, and he removed many Indian tribes to the west of the Mississippi.
  - For 10 points, name this seventh president of the United States, who was nicknamed "Old Hickory." [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Rachel Jackson (or Rachel Donelson; prompt on "Jackson" or "Donelson"; prompt on descriptive answers like "Andrew Jackson's wife")
  - Named answer required Robert Coleman Foster edited a pamphlet of testimony and narratives about this person's past. [PWR]
  - John Overton changed several important dates in testimony about her, and the Nashville Committee was in charge of putting out that pamphlet and deflecting other attacks on her family. [PWR]
  - Her marriage in Natchez had to be redone, among other reasons because the territory only recognized Catholic ceremonies at the time. [PWR]
  - Her future husband was a boarder at the house of Lewis Robards, whom this woman was married to at the time. [PWR]
  - Emily (*) Donelson served as hostess for an estate after this woman's death until Donelson was asked to leave for snubbing Peggy Eaton.
  - This woman's husband blamed her death on his opponents accusations of bigamy and adultery.
  - For 10 points, name this wife of Andrew Jackson. [GIVE]

[T8] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: attempted assassination of Andrew Jackson [or obvious equivalents, do not accept just "assassination of Andrew Jackson" because he didn't get assassinated]
  - A popular conspiracy theory for who caused this event was started by Mordecai Foy and David Stewart, who charged that it was set up by Mississippi Senator George Poindexter, whose false association with this event caused him to be defeated for 3 reelection.
  - This event, which occurred at the funeral of Warren Davis, was done by a man who stood on his porch yelling at neighborhood children and likely had lead poisoning or schizophrenia from his job as a house painter.
  - He claimed he was owed money because he was the King of England, and said he "could not rise" until he got his money back by performing this event.
  - That perpetrator, Richard Lawrence,was thwarted partly by Davy Crockett and partly by his intended victim, who beat him with a cane.
  - For 10 points, give this event where, afer two pistols misfred, the Democratic president who hated the national bank was not shot. [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Andrew Jackson
  - A book by Claude Bowers about the "party battles" was influential in creating his modern image at the slight cost of being often totally made up.
  - William Legget served as this man's radical conscience, according to Robert Remini.
  - Arthur Schlesinger won a Pulitzer for his work about the "age" of this man, who was identified with the ascent of American capitalism by Hofstadter.
  - This general executed Arbuthnot and Ambrister, two British citizens, for selling guns to the Indians, and defeating William Weatherford's Red Sticks at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend.
  - "Sharp Knife" and "King Mob" were nicknames of this president, empowered by Congress via the Force Bill, who signed an executive order requiring gold and silver for government land purchases.
  - Lewis Cass replaced John Eaton in the cabinet of this man, which was upended in the Petticoat affair.
  - The Specie Circular was issued by, for 10 points, what U.S president succeeded by van Buren whose namesake "democracy" reigned during the 1830s? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Thomas Hart Benton's unwavering support for this legislation earned him the nickname "Old Bullion." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Specie Circular):
    Name this executive order whereby Treasury Secretary Levi Woodbury directed that paper money would no longer be accepted for large public land sales. Its role in propagating the Panic of 1837 continues to be debated.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    The Specie Circular was issued by this first Democratic president, whose other economic initiatives included dismantling the Second Bank of the United States.
  Part 3 (ans: wildcat banks):
    The Jacksonian Democrats continued to advocate for free banking after the Panic of 1837, epitomized by the establishment of many of these poorly regulated, state-chartered banks in places like Singapore, Michigan.

[B2] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: A so-called "naughty little girl" theory is used to explain instances of these beings whose telekinetic prowess could simply be attributed to lying attention-seeking children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: poltergeists [accept Enfield poltergeist; prompt on spirits or ghosts or phantoms]):
    Name these "noisy" beings whose presence is characterized by flickering lights, foul smells, and object pelting. Gef the Talking Mongoose is typically identified as one of these beings, as is one responsible for the Enfield haunting.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    The poltergeist-like Bell Witch is said to have literally kicked one of this president's men out of the door. This president's Hermitage Estate in Nashville may still host his ghost, which some have dubbed Old Hickory.
  Part 3 (ans: drum [accept Drummer of Tedworth; accept Drake's Drum]):
    A haunted object of this type was responsible for the poltergeist-like rumblings experienced by a house in Tedworth at night. One of these objects can supposedly be used to summon Sir Francis Drake in defense of Britain.

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The barber Alfred Niger ("nee-ZHER") advocated for Black male suffrage in this state. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rhode Island):
    Name this state whose 1663 colonial charter had property qualifications for voting. This state's governor Samuel Ward King resisted calls to expand the franchise.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorr Rebellion [or Dorr's Rebellion; or Dorr's War]):
    Samuel Ward King faced this rebellion by disgruntled Rhode Islanders wanting universal male suffrage. John Tyler refused King's request for federal troops to stop this rebellion, which was suppressed in 1842.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Increased voter eligibility in the U.S. is widely credited with helping this president win the election of 1828. This president abolished the Second Bank of the United States and signed the Indian Removal Act.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the strange and disastrous political career of Robert Potter, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North Carolina [or NC]):
    Potter was expelled from this state's House of Commons for cheating at cards and waving a gun. William Daley and James Iredell persuaded this state's representatives to approve the Constitution.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Potter's expulsion came three years after he resigned from the 22nd Congress under this president for castrating two men he believed cheated on his wife. This president passed the Indian Removal Act.
  Part 3 (ans: Texas Declaration of Independence [prompt on partial answers; reject "Texas Constitution"]):
    After leaving North Carolina, Potter participated in the Shelby County War after signing this document, which was adopted in 1836 at Washington-on-the-Brazos and founded an independent state whose citizens undertook the Runaway Scrape.

[B5] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about failed presidential assassinations, for 10 points each;
  Part 1 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    This President survived the first presidential assassination attempt and the would be assassin Richard Lawrence later successfully used the insanity defense.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerald Ford):
    This President survived two assassination attempts in 17 days, which were the only assassination attempts carried out by women. One of the assassins was a member of the Manson Family.
  Part 3 (ans: Blair House (accept 1651 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. if they for some reason know that address)):
    Puerto Rican Nationalists Oscar Collazo and Griselio Torresola attempted to assassinate President Harry S. Truman while he resided in this building. Truman was in this building, known as The President's Guest House, while the White House was being renovated.

[B6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: John Quincy Adams spent more than 30 years in various roles in the American government. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Quincy Adams won the 1824 Presidential Election in a Congressional vote despite this war hero and Senator from Tennessee earning more electoral votes. This man proceeded to defeat Quincy Adams in the Election of 1828.
  Part 2 (ans: Russia [or Russian Empire or Rossiya or Rossiyskaya Imperiya]):
    During the 1828 Presidential Election, Quincy Adams was accused of acting as a procurer for the ruler of this country, where he was US Ambassador from 1809 to 1814. What Quincy Adams actually did as ambassador to this country was secure the release of American ships held there.
  Part 3 (ans: Gag Rule):
    After losing the Presidency, Quincy Adams became a Congressman and successfully campaigned against this Congressional Regulation, which prevented the discussion of any antislavery petition in Congress.

[B7] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Kevin T. Barksdale's book on "America's first secession" recounts a short-lived polity led from this modern-day state's city of Greeneville near the Great Indian Warpath. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tennessee [or TN; accept The Annals of Tennessee to the End of the Eighteenth Century] (The book is The Lost State of Franklin. The Hermitage was Andrew Jackson's estate.)):
    Name this state organized from the Southwest Territory after John Sevier led the failed State of Franklin. J. G. M. Ramsey recorded the "annals" of this state, where a woman named Hannah was enslaved at the Hermitage.
  Part 2 (ans: Watauga River [accept Watauga Association or Republic of Watauga; accept Fort Watauga]):
    Many settlers of Franklin joined an earlier "association" named for this Tennessee and North Carolina River, where they founded a nominal "republic" in 1772 and built Fort Caswell near this river's Sycamore Shoals.
  Part 3 (ans: Cherokee [or Tsalagihi Ayeli; or Anigiduwagi; or Aniyvwiyai; accept Chicakamauga Cherokee or Overhill Cherokee]):
    The Watauga Association was opposed by Dragging Canoe of the Chickamauga group of this Native people, whose Overhill group raided Franklin. This people settled in Tahlequah, Oklahoma after the Trail of Tears.

[B8] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's introduction notes how people who were historically called "lubbers" and "clay eaters" have been thought of as "irreparable 'breeds'" throughout American history. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: White Trash: The 400-Year Untold History of Class in America):
    Name this "400-Year" social history by Nancy Isenberg that traces perceptions of poor Americans from colonial times to the 2008 presidential election.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    The fifth chapter of White Trash discusses the "Cracker Country" of this President, whose replacement by Harriet Tubman on the 20-dollar bill is still pending.
  Part 3 (ans: Jon Meacham [or Jon Ellis Meacham]):
    This author drew from the archives at the Hermitage in his biography of Jackson, American Lion. His other studies of the Early Republic include Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power and American Gospel: God, the Founding Fathers, and the Making of a Nation.

[B9] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: In What Hath God Wrought, Daniel Walker Howe traced the benefits of Mexican examples of these institutions, whose supply initially came from goods made by the proto-industrial putting-out system. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: markets [or marketplaces; accept free markets or open markets or market economy or market competition; accept Market Revolution or The Market Revolution: Jacksonian America, 1815-1846]):
    Name these economic institutions that Charles Grier Sellers blamed for "bourgeois hegemony" during their antebellum "revolution." In 19th-century America's capitalist economy, these competitive systems of exchange were "free."
  Part 2 (ans: internal improvements):
    The Whigs promoted access to markets by advocating these projects, like canals, tunnels, and the National Road. This alliterative two-word phrase refers to infrastructure championed by Henry Clay's "American System."
  Part 3 (ans:  King Andrew the First [prompt on descriptions like "the cartoon of Andrew Jackson" or "the one with Andrew Jackson as a king"]):
    This Whig cartoon's title figure tramples on the phrases "internal improvements" and "U.S. bank" alongside the Constitution. This cartoon's title figure wields a scepter next to the phrase "of veto memory."

[B10] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: In the book that introduced this historical framework, its author argues that since it ushered in a period of "liberal capitalism," it ultimately made slavery the "Great Contradiction" of America. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Market Revolution):
    Name this framework introduced in a 1991 book by the historian Charles Grier Sellers. It was theorized by Sellers to explain a shift in the U.S. from an agrarian society to a capitalist one.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Sellers introduced the Market Revolution paradigm in a book about this U.S. president, who waged the so-called "Bank War" against the Second Bank of the United States.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles River Bridge vs. Warren Bridge [accept either underlined part]):
    Sellers cites this 1837 Supreme Court case as a check against the Market Revolution, in which Taney's court ruled that the Massachusetts state legislature had not violated the Contract clause.

[B11] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Opponents accused this candidate of cannibalizing the Native Americans whom he defeated in the Creek War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Name this general who narrowly lost to John Quincy Adams in the election of 1824 because of a "corrupt bargain" in the House of Representatives.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of New Orleans):
    The "Coffin Handbills" accused Jackson of executing six of his militiamen at this battle. Edward Pakenham died storming the earthworks at this battle without the ladders that Thomas Mullins was supposed to provide.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Arbuthnot AND Robert Ambrister):
    Two answers required. Jackson sparked a diplomatic incident with the British during the First Seminole War, when he court-martialed and executed these two British agents who were supplying the Indians.

[B12] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This character holds a scepter in his right hand and a veto in his left hand. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: King Andrew the First [or King Andrew the First; prompt on Andrew or Andrew Jackson]):
    Name this satirical character, who wears a crown and fancy robes. The phrases "Had I been consulted" and "Born to command" surround the frame of the cartoon in which this character appears.
  Part 2 (ans: Second Bank of the United States [or BUS]):
    In the cartoon, King Andrew stands on top of the constitution and "internal improvements" of this institution. Andrew Jackson fought a so-called "war" against this institution when it was led by Nicholas Biddle.
  Part 3 (ans: Specie Circular):
    Jackson's defeat of the bank led to the proliferation of state banks that issued unbacked paper money. This edict, which was carried out by Levi Woodbury, demanded payment for land in gold and silver in an attempt to fix that problem. However, this edict instead likely caused the economic Panic of 1837.

[B13] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Leadin: This figure first appeared as a dog with a rabbit's head in a cornfield and later returned as Kate Batts to break off Betsy's engagement to Joshua Gardner. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Bell Witch):
    Name this ghost who haunted its namesake family in Adams, Tennessee by quoting sermons and poisoning the patriarch John. This ghost was was the subject of an 1894 "Authenticated History" by M. V. Ingram.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson [accept Old Hickory]):
    Ingram's book alleges that this historical figure visited the Bell home in 1819 with a man claiming to be able to kill the witch with a silver bullet. This man's ghost allegedly haunts the Rose Room of the White House.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary Todd Lincoln [accept either underlined part]):
    This First Lady claimed to hear Andrew Jackson swearing in the Rose Room. She hosted seances in the White House after the death of her son Willy and is shown with the ghost of her husband Abe in a hoax photo by William Mumler.

[B14] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The history of political parties in the United States has not been smooth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Second Party System):
    This political party system began in 1828 following the "corrupt bargain" of 1824. This system saw the rise of the Jacksonian Democrats and the Whigs after the fracturing of the Democratic-Republicans.
  Part 2 (ans: John Tyler):
    This man succeeded William Henry Harrison and was later expelled from his own party, becoming a pro-slavery Democrat who pursued annexing Texas.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrew Jackson's veto message regarding the Second Bank of the United States [or Jackson vetoing extending the charter of the Second Bank of the United States; or equivalents that mention a veto]):
    This major document defining Jacksonian democracy was authored by either Roger Taney or Amos Kendall. It praises government that, "as Heaven does its rains, shower[s] its favors alike on the high and the low," and warns of $8.5 million in shares held by Great Britain.

[B15] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Wilma Mankiller, who despite her name, was not a serial androcidal maniac. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cherokee Nation):
    Mankiller was the first female chief of this American Indian nation, whose bilingual newspaper, the Phoenix, used a script invented by Sequoyah.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Mankiller was a candidate to replace this president on the $20 bill. This president signed the Indian Removal Act, which forced the Cherokee to relocate to the Indian Territory.
  Part 3 (ans: Dawes Rolls):
    Mankiller limited membership in the Cherokee Nation to those who could claim an ancestor classified as "Cherokee by Blood" on this census of the Five Civilized Tribes living in the Indian Territory from 1898-1914. As a result, Cherokee Freedmen were excluded from being part of the Cherokee Nation.

[B16] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Secretary of the Treasury Levi Woodbury developed the idea behind this order, and Thomas Benton tried to push through an act in Congress that advocated a similar goal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Specie Circular):
    Name this executive order that required anyone who purchased government land to pay in gold or silver. It was one of the factors that led to the Panic of 1837, since it heightened the devaluation of paper money.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    The Specie Circular was issued by this seventh US president, who slew the many-headed demon of the Second Bank of the US in a famous political cartoon.
  Part 3 (ans: Locofocos):
    This faction, which broke off from the Tammany Hall Democrats in 1835, championed the Specie Circular. This faction grew out of the Workingmen's parties and achieved its goals with the passage of the Independent Treasury Act.

[B17] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This tariff was enacted during the tenure of John Quincy Adams, and Democrats attempted to derail it by adding restrictions on shipping. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tariff of 1828 or the Tariff of Abominations):
    Name this highest US Tariff which was widely opposed by Southerners for the prohibitive effect it had on the Southern Agrarian economy to the benefit of the Northern Industrial economy shielded from European dumping, following the Napoleonic breakdown in trade.
  Part 2 (ans: South Carolina):
    The Tariff of Abominations provoked the Nullification crisis in this state. It was the home state of senator John C. Calhoun and the first shots of the Civil War were fired at its Fort Sumter.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Calhoun served and later resigned as vice president under this 7th President of the United States. He was the first Democratic president and had served as a general in the conquest of Florida and the War of 1812

[B18] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Hamilton and 1776 aren't the only musicals about American history. A rock musical about this president insists "sometimes you have to shoot the storyteller in the neck." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Name this "Bloody Bloody" president, whose politics are laid out in "Populism, Yea Yea." He's peeved to learn about his legacy regarding Indian Removal, especially before he dies.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Frank):
    On a less humorous note, the Jason Robert Brown musical Parade concerns the lynching of this Jewish factory owner in Atlanta, which led to the creation of the Anti-Defamation League.

[B19] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This case arose from a law which prohibited non-Native Americans, including the white missionary who names the case, from residing on Native American lands without a license. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Worcesterv. Georgia):
    Name this 1832 case in which the Supreme Court held that states did not have criminal jurisdiction over the Native American tribes within their borders.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    When Georgia's governor at first refused to comply with the decision, this president, a hero of the Battle of New Orleans, declined to exert Federal force.
  Part 3 (ans: Cooper v. Aaron [accept either name]):
    The issue of states ignoring Supreme Court decisions rose again in this unanimous 1958 decision, which arose out of Arkansas and held that states cannot choose to ignore the Court.

[B20] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This organization's creation was opposed in a speech by John Taylor that declared that creating this organization could result in the emancipation of Southern slaves. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Second Bank of the United States [or equivalents, such as Second U.S. Bank; prompt on Bank of the United States; do not accept "First Bank of the United States"]):
    Name this organization, whose second president was Langdon Cheves. This institution's final president was Nicholas Biddle, whose push for an early recharter in 1832 led to its demise.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    This Democratic president fought against the renewal of the Second Bank's charter by appointing Roger Taney as Treasury Secretary and withholding federal funds from the bank.
  Part 3 (ans: Amos Kendall):
    This Kentucky-born Postmaster General under Jackson edited the Washington Globe and turned it into the Jackson administration's mouthpiece. He also drafted Jackson's veto of the Second Bank's charter.

[B21] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: During this man's presidency, North Carolina congressman Robert Potter resigned after personally castrating two men he believed were carrying on an affair with his wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Name this president, who endured the much-less interesting Peggy Eaton affair, leading to his unofficial advisement by the Kitchen Cabinet.
  Part 2 (ans: William J. Duane or Louis McLane [or William John Duane]):
    Jackson alienated his Cabinet further by reassigning his first Secretary of the Treasury to Secretary of State, and outright firing the new Secretary of the Treasury, because both had refused to remove deposits from the Second Bank of the United States and reassign them to state banks. Name either secretary.
  Part 3 (ans: Rachel):
    Jackson received flak during the 1828 election because his wife, who had this first name, had never finished divorcing her first husband, so she was portrayed as being bigamous.

[B22] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Current Events
     Leadin: Support for this effort led to a lawsuit by Image Entertainment over Kodak Eastman's right to trademarks in a certain country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: South African Divestment [accept South African Disinvestment; accept South African Boycott; accept anything involving apartheid and divestment; prompt on anti-apartheid demonstrations; prompt on divestment]):
    Name this effort that led to students successfully getting many colleges to dump stock in companies like Ford and the Rand to rapidly decrease in value.
  Part 2 (ans: General Motors [or GM]):
    The Sullivan Rules that aided the divestment campaign were put together by a board member of this company. Despite popular cars like the Corvette, this company sold its plants in South Africa to the Delta Motor Corporation.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrew Jackson Young):
    This Georgia Congressman was an especially strong supporter of South African divestment. He would become the first African-American Ambassador to the United Nations under Jimmy Carter.

[B23] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: During his time in Florida, he became known as "Sharp Knife." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Name this general who executed two British subjects during his warring against the Seminole tribes. The subject of the Coffin Handbills, this man lived on a plantation known as the Hermitage.
  Part 2 (ans: a national bank [or federal bank; or the Second Bank of the United States]):
    As President, Jackson staunchly opposed the renewal of the charter of one of these institutions. That example of these institutions was led by Nicholas Biddle and modeled on an older one proposed by Alexander Hamilton.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Lawrence [prompt on "(King) Richard (III)"]):
    This mentally delusional house painter, who believed he was a former king of England, unsuccessfully tried to kill President Jackson in 1835. Both of his guns misfired during the attempt, which allowed Jackson time to beat this man with a cane.

[B24] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This speech quotes Carlyle in highlighting a dichotomy between supporting the "idle holders of idle capital" and the "struggling masses," and it supports bimetallism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cross of Gold Speech):
    Name this speech, delivered by William Jennings Bryan at the 1896 Democratic National Convention, famous for saying that mankind shall not be crucified upon the title object.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson):
    Bryan claims that, instead of fearing a Robespierre, we instead need this person, whose actions he compares to Cicero's defeat of the Catiline Conspiracy. This president passed the Force Bill to expand the power of the federal government in collecting import duties.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Teller):
    This man led the Silver Republicans during the Election of 1896, most of whom supported Bryan. He also sponsored an amendment to an 1898 resolution that prevented the U.S. annexation of Cuba.
