=== STOCK CLUES: Dover Beach ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 24 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: a beach [or "Dover Beach"; prompt on the sea or a seashore]
  - A character at one of these places plays the same three notes on a reed while being confronted by a man who had previously attacked him. [PWR]
  - An action taken at one of these locations is compared to "knocking four quick times on the door of unhappiness." In a poem titled for one of these locations, the speaker tells the addressee to "come to the window." At one of these places, the likely pimp (*) Raymond's arm is slashed by a knife. [PWR]
  - A poem set at one of these locations describes a place "swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight." The heat of the sun at one of these locations supposedly causes Mersault to shoot an Arab in The Stranger.
  - For 10 points, "ignorant armies clash at night" at what type of location in Dover in a poem by Matthew Arnold? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: beaches [or the seaside; or the shore; accept cliffs; accept a headland overlooking the sea; accept Beachy Head; accept "Dover Beach"; accept "Sonnet on Being Cautioned against Walking on a Headland"]
  - The speaker of a sonnet set at one of these places envies a lunatic "who seems (uncursed with reason) not to know/ the depth or the duration of his woe." A long blank verse poem set at one of these places includes 64 endnotes giving the scientific names of plants and explanations of historical events. [PWR]
  - A four line poem describes one of these places after stating "though the great song return no more/ there's keen delight in what we have." The speaker reflects on a hermit, the Norman invasion, and natural history in a long poem addressed to one of these places by (+) Charlotte Smith. [PWR]
  - "The Nineteenth Century and Everything After" responds to a poem set at one of these places.
  - A parody poem set at one of these places imagines a woman angry at being addressed as a "sort of (*) mournful cosmic last resort." For 10 points, name this kind of place where the speaker states "ah, love, let us be true/ to one another!" in a poem by Matthew Arnold. [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Rahul and Jack's Links (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: reciting "Dover Beach" [accept equivalents]
  - Elaine Hadley wrote an essay subtitled "The Fantasy of Agency" about a character who performs this action and is told "You wrote that" by a man diagnosed with Huntington's disease.
  - Before another instance of this action, a character feels like he's "in the middle of an empty desert" and is asked "why do people want to hurt people?" afterwards. [PWR]
  - Daisy Perowne performs this action to calm down Baxter in a climactic scene from (*) Ian McEwan's Saturday, while in another novel, the protagonist follows up this action by telling a woman to "go home and think of your dozen abortions". [PWR]
  - In that novel, this action causes Mrs.
  - Phelps to break down crying and is justified with the excuse that firemen are allowed to bring home one old book a year.
  - For 10 points, name this action that includes the lines "Ah, love, let us be true" that is performed by Guy Montag in Farenheit 451. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: "Dover Beach" (The Odets play is titled Clash by Night.)
  - This poem's final line provides the title of a Clifford Odets play about a love triangle between Earl, Jerry, and May, which Fritz Lang adapted into a film.
  - This poem was written shortly after its author married Frances Wightman, who is the implied addressee of its line "Come to the window, sweet is the night-air!" This poem likens religion to an entity that "Lay like the folds of a bright girdle furled," but retreated to expose "the vast edges drear / And naked (*) shingles of the world," giving off a "melancholy, long, withdrawing roar" in the process. [PWR]
  - This poem, which imagines the "turbid ebb and flow / Of human misery" heard by "Sophocles long ago," exhorts "Ah, love, let us be true / To one another!" For 10 points, name this poem about a "darkling plain" where "ignorant armies clash by night," by Matthew Arnold. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: "Dover Beach"
  - Daisy's recitation of this poem moves the criminal Baxter to tears in the climactic scene of Ian McEwan's Saturday.
  - A character yells "Go home and think of your first husband divorced and your second husband killed in a jet and your third husband blowing his brains out" after reading this poem, which causes his wife to lock herself in the bathroom and take sleeping pills, and causes Mrs.
  - Phelps to cry. [PWR]
  - The title character of a poem based on this one "had read (*) Sophocles in a fairly good translation and caught that bitter allusion to the sea." A pejorative is substituted for the last word in this poem's title in a parody by Anthony Hecht. [PWR]
  - This poem's speaker says "Ah, love, let us be true to one another!" and compares the world to "a darkling plain ... where ignorant armies clash by night." For 10 points, name this Matthew Arnold poem. [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: beaches [accept: "On the Beach at Night Alone" or "On the Beach at Night" or "Dover Beach"]
  - A work titled for this type of place describes an "old mother... singing her husky song" where "a vast similitude interlocks all." A father and his young daughter observe "burial-clouds that lower victorious soon to devour all" in a work set at one of these places that suggests that there is something "more immortal even than the (*) stars." "The eternal note of sadness" is heard in another of these locations "where ignorant armies clash by night." "The sea is calm tonight" at - for 10 points - what sort of locale described by a Matthew Arnold poem set in Dover? [PWR,GIVE]

[T7] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: "Dover Beach"
  - One response to this poem is a quatrain which reads, "Though the great song return no more there's keen delight in what we have: the rattle of pebbles on the shore under the receding wave." The title character of another response to this poem thinks about "what his whiskers would feel like on the back of her neck" and says "one or two unprintable things" because she is angry at being "addressed as a sort of mournful cosmic last resort" by the author of this poem while they are standing "with the cliffs of England crumbling away behind them." This poem is read to Mildred by Guy Montag to convince her of the worth of literature in Fahrenheit 451, and it is parodied in an Anthony Hecht poem about a "bitch." For 10 points, name this poem which compares life to "a darkling plain swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight," written by Matthew Arnold. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, Henry Perowne gets into a car accident while driving to squash practice and escapes the ensuing fistfight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ian McEwan (The unnamed novel is Atonement.)):
    Name this author who wrote about a day in the life of a neurosurgeon during an Iraq War protest in the novel Saturday. Briony Tallis misinterprets a tryst she stumbles upon in a library in another novel by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses):
    Many critics compare McEwan's Saturday to this James Joyce novel, which follows a day in the life of Leopold Bloom.
  Part 3 (ans: beach [accept "Dover Beach"; accept On Chesil Beach]):
    In Saturday, Henry makes a criminal cry by reciting a poem about this kind of place. One of these places titles a McEwan novel about Florence and Edward, while another is the setting of an episode of Ulysses following Gerty.

[B2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a later work, this poem's addressee gets angry after being brought "All the way down from London" and treated as "a sort of mournful cosmic last resort." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dover Beach" (by Matthew Arnold)):
    Name this poem whose "bitter allusion to the sea" is critiqued in that poem by Anthony Hecht. This poem describes a "darkling plain" where "ignorant armies clash by night."
  Part 2 (ans: Daljit Nagra):
    This Punjabi British poet referenced "Dover Beach" in his poem "Look We Have Coming to Dover!," whose immigrant speaker imagines "babbling our lingoes, flecked by the chalk of Britannia" upon reaching England.
  Part 3 (ans: the world):
    Exact word required. The epigraph of Nagra's poem quotes the line, "So various, so beautiful, so new" from "Dover Beach," which describes this thing that "seems to lie before us like a land of dreams."

[B3] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: POV: You have two legs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Standing Female Nude"):
    In this poem by Carol Ann Duffy, the narrator imagines that the "bourgeoisie will coo // at such an image of a river-whore". This poem ends with the narrator remarking "it does not look like me" in reference to an artist's completed product.
  Part 2 (ans: "When I consider how my light is spent"):
    This other poem concludes by noting that "they also serve those who only stand and wait". The author of this poem also wrote [emphasize] another poem which notes that the mind "can make a heav'n of hell, a hell of heav'n".
  Part 3 (ans: "Dover Beach"):
    This other poem describes how "the cliffs of England stand" and is about a place where "ignorant armies clash by night". A parody of this poem begins by saying "So there stood Matthew Arnold and this girl".

[B4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: At the start of this novel, the surgeon Henry Perowne spots a burning airplane in the sky, but is later relieved to find out that it was just a cargo plane experiencing a malfunction and not a terrorist incident. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saturday):
    Name this Ian McEwan novel in which Henry observes an anti-Iraq War protest, plays a game of squash, and has a car accident with the criminal Baxter.
  Part 2 (ans: "Dover Beach" {"Dover Beach" is by Matthew Arnold.}):
    In the climactic scene of Saturday, Baxter is talked out of sexually assualting Henry's daughter Daisy after she recites this poem. This poem begins "The sea is calm tonight. / The tide is full, the moon lies fair / Upon the straits."
  Part 3 (ans: William Shakespeare's 80th Sonnet [or "O, how I faint when I of you do write"]):
    In another poetry-related scene from Saturday, Daisy stubbornly corrects her grandfather John Grammaticus when he quotes from this poem, "My saucy bark inferior far to his / On your broad main doth wilfully appear." "My love was my decay" ends this poem, whose speaker compares himself to a "worthless boat."

[B5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author included the line "shy traffickers, the dark Iberians come" in a poem that opens "go, for they call you, shepherd, from the hill." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Matthew Arnold):
    Name this poet whose elegy for Arthur Hugh Clough is titled for a shepherd from the Eclogues. This author included the poem "To Marguerite: Continued" within the dramatic poem "Empedocles on Etna."
  Part 2 (ans: "Dover Beach"):
    This poem by Matthew Arnold describes waves that "bring the eternal note of sadness in." It ends with the image of "a darkling plain / swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight."
  Part 3 (ans: "dreaming spires" [prompt on spires]):
    Matthew Arnold's poem "Thyrsis" describes Oxford as a "sweet city" with these structures. Give the two-word phrase from the poem.

[B6] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author begins by imploring "Go, for they call you, shephard, from the hill." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Matthew Arnold):
    Name this poet of "The Scholar-Gypsy" who is better known for a poem that describes the "turbid ebb and flow / Of human misery."
  Part 2 (ans: "Dover Beach"):
    The aforementioned poem is this one, in which Arnold describes an "eternal note of sadness" heard by "Sophocles long ago" as well as a "darkling plain" where "ignorant armies clash by night."
  Part 3 (ans: "Thyrsis"):
    The speaker of this Arnold poem, an elegy for his friend Arthur Hugh Clough, describes how "Time, not Corydon, hath conquered thee."

[B7] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is implied to be having an affair with the narrator, who sometimes brings her a bottle of Nuit d'Amour, and becomes angry that she is being treated as a "cosmic last resort." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Dover Bitch (prompt on the addressee of "Dover Beach," prompt on Matthew Arnold's wife, lover, girlfriend, etc.)):
    Name this woman who catches a "bitter allusion to the sea" and spaces out while a man is addressing her, thinking instead about enormous beds and perfumes in France.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Hecht):
    This American poet whose "The Transparent Man" is narrated by a woman dying of leukemia also wrote "The Dover Bitch."
  Part 3 (ans: the Holocaust (or the Shoah; prompt on "World War II")):
    Hecht's poem "More Light! More Light!", in which a Pole is forced to dig a grave for himself and two Jews, focuses on the atrocities of this event. Yevgeny Yevtushenko's "Babi Yar" also memorializes victims of this event.

[B8] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem ends with "some grave Tyrian trader" journeying "outside the Western Straits." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Scholar-Gipsy"):
    Name this poem about a man "born in days when wits were clear and fresh" "before this strange disease of modern life." It is based on a story told by Glanvill about a man who leaves Oxford.
  Part 2 (ans: "Dover Beach"):
    "The Scholar-Gipsy" was written by Matthew Arnold, who is best known for this poem about the once-full "Sea of Faith." The speaker of this poem describes a place "where ignorant armies clash by night" on some cliffs.
  Part 3 (ans: darkling):
    In "Dover Beach," the speaker claims that "we are here as on a...plain" described by this adjective. "An aged thrush, frail, gaunt and small" is described by this adjective in the title of a poem by Thomas Hardy.

[B9] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's speaker notes how "round me too the night in ever-nearing circle weaves her shade." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Thyrsis"):
    Name this poem which instructs the title figure to "let in thy voice a whisper often come, to chase fatigue and fear" reminding him that "still our tree is there!"
  Part 2 (ans: Matthew Arnold):
    "Thyrsis" was written by this Victorian poet who wrote "Thou waitest for the spark from Heaven" in his poem "The Scholar-Gipsy."
  Part 3 (ans: "Dover Beach"):
    Arnold may be best known for writing this poem about declining religiosity which describes an "eternal note of sadness" and begins with the line "The sea is calm tonight."
