=== STOCK CLUES: Naguib Mahfouz ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 70 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 24 found, 72 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - In a novel by this author, a character's guilt troubles him when he hears a sermon from a preacher who "believes in two things: God in heaven and adolescent boys on earth." As part of her work with Doubleday, Jackie Kennedy Onassis oversaw the translation of a series by this author. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, a woman tells her husband and brother that her sons' names have the same ring to them as a former prime minister. [PWR]
  - After leaving the house without her husband's permission, (*) Amina is hit by a car and shatters her collarbone in the first part of a series by this author. [PWR]
  - The last part of a series by this author is titled after the residence of Kadijah, al-Sayyid Ahmad's daughter.
  - The lives of the al-Jawad family are described by, for 10 points, what author who included Palace Walk and Sugar Street in his Cairo Trilogy? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz [or Naguib Mahfouz Abdelaziz Ibrahim Ahmed Al-Basha] (The unnamed novels are The Children of Gebelawi and The Thief and the Dogs.)
  - In a novel by this author, a man gets drunk and dances after convincing his brother to try to steal their father's will. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, a man is chased and killed by police in a cemetery after mistakenly killing a doorman and a lodger. [PWR]
  - In that novel, the title character seeks revenge on his ex-wife and two former friends after he is released from prison. [PWR]
  - This author was (*) stabbed in the neck for writing a novel in which characters representing Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, and modern science successively control parts of an alley.
  - After defying her husband's orders to stay home, Amina is hit by a car in a novel by this author that he followed with the sequels Palace of Desire and Sugar Street.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included Palace Walk in his Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz (na-GHEEB ma-FOOZ) [Naguib Mahfouz Mbdelaziz Ibrahim Ahmed Al-Basha]
  - s: 22.
  - In a story by this author, a merchant gives the names My Fate and My Destiny to his conjoined sons.
  - While at Doubleday, Jackie Kennedy oversaw the publication of the first translation of this author's major work by William M.
  - Hutchins.
  - A journalist visits a group of addicts living on a houseboat Adrift on the title river in a novel by this author.
  - A novel by this author includes four characters' views on the beautiful peasant Zohra, who turns up at Mariana's title hotel.
  - This author described how a student protest leads to the shooting of Fahmy in a series in which a woman disobeys her husband, leaves the house, and is hit by a car.
  - In that series by this author of Miramar, Amina discovers the infidelity of her husband al-Sayyid Ahmad.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included Palace Walk and Palace of Desire in the Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz [or Naguib Mahfouz Abdelaziz Ibrahim Ahmed Al-Basha]
  - A short story by this author depicts the tension between a spice seller's conjoined twin sons, whose names translate as "My Fate" and "My Destiny." A character created by this author imagines turning into a goat or a grain of sand after killing his brother.
  - In a novel by this author, Adham sees the makeshift tin and stick hut built by his exiled brother, just after Adham himself has been exiled for trying to see his father's forbidden book.
  - In that novel by this author, the scientist Arafa causes the death of the title character, whose four sons represent Adam, Moses, Jesus, and Muhammad.
  - Amina breaks her collarbone during a car accident in this author's trilogy about the al-Jawad family.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Children of Gebelawi and the Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - One of this author's characters meets his wife while working as a donkey-boy, but divorces her to marry a prostitute before becoming the chief of the title group.
  - Idris convinces his brother's wife to steal the title man's will in a novel by this author.
  - In that novel by this author, hearing his grandfather's voice in the desert inspires a man to save all the souls near the title character's house before that man is murdered. [PWR]
  - After (*) disobeying her husband and leaving the house, a woman created by this author collapses from the heat, is hit by a car, and breaks her collarbone.
  - This author of The Harafish and The Children of Gebelawi wrote a series about Al-Sayyid Ahmed's family, which begins with Palace Walk.
  - For 10 points, name this Egyptian author of The Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - In one novel, this author described how the kneading of bread serves as the alarm clock for a family whose matriarch washes her husband every night for 25 years. [PWR]
  - Another character created by this author takes over a street with the help of the Desert Rats, but is eventually replaced by the magician Arafa. [PWR]
  - This author faced an assassination attempt at age 82 due to his defense of Rushdie's Satanic Verses and for a novel that allegorized (*) Muhammad in the character Qasim; that novel by this author also includes depictions of Jesus and Moses, all of whom live in an alley. [PWR]
  - This author wrote three novels about the al-Jawad family, each named after streets in a capital city.
  - For 10 points, name this Egyptian author of The Children of Gebelawi and the Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - A work-obsessed bureaucrat created by this author claims that 'the State is an exhalation of the spirit of God, incarnate on earth' to one of his two wives.
  - A woman created by this author has a beer glass thrown in her face after being seen in a carriage and chased by her fiance.
  - That character created by this author changes her name to Titi to please English punters and refuses to marry the barber Abbas.
  - This author of Respected Sir also wrote a novel in which the title characters represent the three Abhrahamic religions.
  - In one novel by this author, the law student Fahmy agitates against British occupation, and al-Sayyid Ahmad cheats on his wife Amina.
  - Midaq Alley and the Cairo Trilogy are by, for 10 points, which Egyptian author? [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - This author claimed that reading a countryman's "New Magazine" in college taught belief in "science, socialism, and tolerance." Before managing the Good Loan Project, this author worked at the Ministry of Religious Endowments, whose beneficiaries inspired some of his protagonists. [PWR]
  - Portraits by this author's friend, the artist Seif Waly, accompany each of the autobiographical stories from this author's book Mirrors.
  - This author of The Heart of the Night characterized the late 1970s as the "abyss of the (*) infitah" in one novel and was stabbed in 1994 for openly supporting Salman Rushdie. [PWR]
  - A scene from one of this author's novels in which British soldiers shoot an activist at a protest recalls his youthful membership in the Wafd Party.
  - His novel The Day the Leader Was Killed draws on his experience with chaos in the aftermath of Anwar Sadat's murder.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz [accept The Beggar before "this man"]
  - Omar's existential crisis and love affairs are documented in this man's work The Beggar.
  - A man is unable to escape from a carnival in one of this man's late short stories, collected in The Dreams and Dreams of Departure. [PWR]
  - One character created by this man is unsettled by seeing his father playing the tambourine at a courtesan's house; that character's mother (*) fractures her collarbone after fainting on her return from a mosque. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about Randa's family's disapproval of her engagement to Elwan due to the latter's inability to furnish a flat in The Day the Leader was Killed.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Palace Walk, the first novel of the Cairo Trilogy, a Nobel Laureate from Egypt. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - A prostitute in one of this man's novels takes on the nickname Titi; when her fiance discovers her with British troops and throws a beer glass at her, he is beaten to death.
  - In addition to writing about Hamida and the barber Abbas in one novel, this author wrote a work about Arafa's attempts to overthrow the Chief Strongman, the latest in a series of such rulers. [PWR]
  - The title figures of that work by this author represent the three (*) Abrahamic religions. [PWR]
  - The conservative wife Amina is hit by a car in one of this author's novels, which centers on the marriage of Aisha, the daughter of the adulterous Al-Sayyid Ahmad.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Midaq Alley, Children of Gebalawi, and Palace Walk, the last of which is part of his Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - In a novel by this author, a drug-addicted man hallucinates about Napoleon and Nero and writes a whole report without realizing his pen is out of ink. [PWR]
  - In another of his novels, a poet is replaced by a radio for entertainment in a cafe run by Mr. [PWR]
  - Kirsha and frequented by Abbas. [PWR]
  - Another of his novels ends with the story of Arafa, who may represent modern science; it begins with Idris tempting Adham to look at his father's estate documents. [PWR]
  - This author of Adrift on the (*) Nile wrote about a man who outrages his father by writing about Darwin and becoming a teacher; his family, including the activist Fahmy, the libertine Yasin, and the quiet Amina, finds out about the conservative Abd al-Jawad's debauchery.
  - This author of Miramar and Midaq Alley wrote about Kamal's family in a series including Palace Walk and Sugar Street.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Children of Gebelawi (GEBB-ul-OW-ee) and The Cairo Trilogy. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Naguib Mahfouz
  - One character created by this author is killed by several soldiers after smashing a beer glass against the face of a woman he covets who had been prostituted by a pimp. [PWR]
  - Another character created by this author is met by nobody after being released from a four-year prison stint and seeks revenge on Ilish, as well as his ex-wife. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a novel in which a character is banished from her house after being (*) hit by a car and fracturing her collarbone, and that novel centers around the wedding of Aisha, the daughter of the philandering Al-Sayyid Ahmad. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a novel in which three of the title characters represent Moses, Jesus, and Mohammed.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Thief and the Dogs and Children of Gebelawi, whose novel Palace Walk appears in his "Cairo Trilogy." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author analyzed Jesus Christ's crucifixion and resurrection in plays such as Project for Discussion and Death and Resurrection. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz [or Naguib Mahfouz Abdelaziz Ibrahim Ahmed Al-Basha]):
    Name this Egyptian author better known for writing about the al-Jawad family in his Cairo Trilogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Tawfiq al-Hakim):
    This Egyptian playwright fictionalized the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus in his play The People of the Cave. He wrote a sequel to Arabian Nights in which the title Shahrazad leaves behind his anger to discover the source of life.
  Part 3 (ans: Theatre of the Absurd [or theatre de l'absurde]):
    Many of Egyptian playwright Lenin El-Ramly's plays, including In Plain Arabic, are described by this four-word phrase coined by Martin Esslin, which denotes plays analyzing the meaninglessness of the modern world.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In its original run, an absurdist play set at this type of location was always preceded by a performance of Lu Xun's ("loo shoon's") The Passerby. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bus stop):
    Name this type of location, where the Hothead and Glasses get into an argument while waiting in an absurdist play by Gao Xingjian ("cow sheeng-t'shyen").
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz [or Naguib Mahfouz Abdelaziz Ibrahim Ahmed Al-Basha]):
    A series of unsettling occurrences, like a couple having sex in public, lead commuters to believe they are being filmed in this author's story "At the Bus Stop." This author also wrote the Cairo Trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Augusto Boal):
    Two actors staged a political argument at a bus stop in one instance of the "invisible theater" promoted by this Brazilian creator of the "Theater of the Oppressed."

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After writing a doctoral thesis on an "obscure English poet," Mustafa Sa'eed returns to the village of Wad Hamid in this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sudan [or Republic of the Sudan; or Jumhuriyyat as-Sudan]):
    Name this country, where Mustafa recounts his affairs with British women before drowning himself in Tayeb Salih's novel Season of Migration to the North.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz ):
    Mustafa drowns himself in the Nile River, which is also the setting of this author's novel Adrift on the Nile. This author included Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street in his Cairo Trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: dates [or tamr; accept "A Handful of Dates"]):
    In a short story by Salih, the protagonist sticks a finger down his throat to throw up this title food after witnessing his grandfather extort their neighbor, Masood.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author recalled his childhood in this country in the three-volume autobiography The Days. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Egypt [or Arab Republic of Egypt or Jumhuriyat Misr al-Arabiyah]):
    Name this home country of Taha Hussein. In a novel from this country, Amina is exiled from her house after being hit by a car and fracturing her collarbone.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz [or Naguib Mahfouz Abdelaziz Ibrahim Ahmed Al-Basha]):
    Amina's son Kamal pines over his unrequited love in Palace of Desire, which appears with Palace Walk and Sugar Street in this Egyptian author's Cairo Trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: The Thief and the Dogs [or al-lis wal-kilab]):
    Mahfouz described dissatisfaction with Egypt's police system and revolution in this novel. The protagonist of this novel seeks revenge on Rauf Ilwan and is eventually shot by police while thinking of his daughter Sana.

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A Catholic girls' school set on this geographical feature titles a Scholastique Mukasonga novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nile River [or an-Nil; or Our Lady of the Nile; or Adrift on the Nile] (The novel in the second sentence is Season of Migration to the North by Tayeb Salih.)):
    Name this geographical feature that titles a novel in which Anis Zani and his fellow drug addict friends are written about by the journalist Samara. In another novel set on this geographical feature, the unnamed narrator returns home and learns about the mysterious Mustafa Sa'eed.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Adrift on the Nile is a novel by this Egyptian Nobel laureate who also wrote the Cairo Trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Hercule Poirot [accept either underlined name] (Those novels are by Agatha Christie.)):
    This character's trip aboard the Karnak is detailed in the novel Death on the Nile. This Belgian man dies in the novel Curtain.

[B6] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's background as a physician inspired the hematologist Refaat Ismail, who appears in The Legend of the House and the other entries in this author's over eighty-book series Beyond Nature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ahmed Khaled Tawfik [or Ahmad Khalid Tawfiq]):
    Name this pioneer of Arabic science-fiction and adventure literature.
  Part 2 (ans: Egypt [or Arab Republic of Egypt or Jumhuriyat Misr al-ʿArabiyyah] {The series of novels is Naguib Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy.}):
    Tawfik was from this country, where Netflix commissioned the wildly popular series Paranormal based on his novels. The maid Umm Tanafi outlives the patriarch of the al-Jawad family in Sugar Street, the last volume of a series of novels set in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Utopia {Utopia is by Thomas More.}):
    In a Tawfik novel with this English title, the development of the artificial fuel biroil causes Egypt to become stratified into a bubble of northern elites and a vast society of poor "Others." A character in another book with this title recalls how he argued against the death penalty for thieves during a meeting at Cardinal Morton's house.

[B7] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The name Ahmed is given to the biologically female eighth child of the Suleyman family after their first seven children were all girls in a novel from this country titled The Sand Child. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Morocco [or Kingdom of Morocco; or al-Magrib or Maroc]):
    Name this home country of Tahar ben Jelloun. Two children are killed in the 2012 novel Chanson douce by this country's author Leila Slimani, which is variously translated as Lullaby or The Perfect Nanny.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz [or Naguib Mahfouz Abdelaziz Ibrahim Ahmed Al-Basha]):
    As in The Sand Child, an abusive patriarch called Ahmad appears in works by this author. In a novel by this author, Ahmad punishes his wife Amina when she breaks her collarbone after leaving the house without permission.
  Part 3 (ans: nights [accept One Thousand and One Nights or Arabian Nights or Alf Laylah wa-Laylah; accept The Sacred Night or La nuit sacree]):
    Tahar ben Jelloun's sequel to The Sand Child is titled for a "Sacred" example of these time periods. Stories featuring Ali Baba are told to King Shahryar in a collection titled for 1001 Arabian examples of these time periods.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this author's story "Wild," Ada accidentally reveals that her well-behaved cousin Chinyere's "brother" is actually her son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lesley Nneka Arimah):
    Name this Nigerian author who collected stories like "Glory" and "Who Will Greet You at Home?" in her 2017 book What It Means When a Man Falls from the Sky.
  Part 2 (ans: naked [or nude]):
    Arimah won the 2019 Caine Prize for African Writing for a story in which all women are required to live this way until they marry. Reverend Hartman sees Kate Swift praying in this way in Sherwood Anderson's story "The Strength of God."
  Part 3 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    The Caine Prize is cosponsored by all four Nobel Prize in Literature winners from African countries: Wole Soyinka, Nadine Gordimer, J. M. Coetzee, and this deceased author, who set the story "Zaabalawi" and the novel Midaq Alley in his native Cairo.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This country was the origin of the Nahda, an Arabic literature renaissance whose pioneers include Rifa'a al-Tahtawi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Egypt [the unnamed novel is Palace Walk by Naguib Mahfouz]):
    Name this country. Fahmy learns of his father's affair with the wedding singer Jalila in a novel from this country about the al-Jawad family.
  Part 2 (ans: Syria [or Syrian Arab Republic]):
    The Nahda included Butrus al-Bustani, an early agitator for the existence of this country. This country is the home of the poet of A Time Between Ashes and Roses, who completed the first Arabic translation of Ovid's Metamorphoses.
  Part 3 (ans: Psalm [or Psalm 23; or Book of Psalms]):
    Adunis wrote "I amuse myself with my country" at the beginning of a poem named for this word. "The Lord is my Shepherd" opens the 23rd work known by this word in a Biblical book.

[B10] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about rivers in literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz ("mah-FOOZ")):
    This author wrote a 1966 novel about the drug addict Anis Zani in Adrift on the Nile. The Nile River also serves as a backdrop in his other novels such as Palace Walk, which is part of his Cairo Trilogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Salim):
    This protagonist of V. S. Naipaul's novel A Bend in the River buys a business at the title location from Nazruddin and sets up a store. His store is later shut down by the dictatorial "Big Man."
  Part 3 (ans: Sri Lankan-Canadian [accept Sinhalese or Tamil] (Brand collaborated with Krisantha Sri Bhaggiyadatta. Shyam Selvadurai wrote Funny Boy.)):
    Toronto Poet Laureate Dionne Brand collaborated on Rivers Have Sources, Trees Have Roots, a collection of interviews dealing with racism in Canada, with a poet of this ethnicity. Another Canadian author of this ethnicity won the Lambda Literary Award for gay male fiction for his 1994 novel Funny Boy.

[B11] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A short story by this author begins with a young boy asking his father what he has done to deserve to attend his first day of school. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Name this author of the short story "Half a Day," which ends with the boy coming out of the school day to find that he is now old and the world has changed. This author also wrote a short story about police shooting people at a bus stop in "Under the Shelter."
  Part 2 (ans: Midaq Alley):
    This novel by Mahfouz tells the story of the lives of the Kirshas, who own a cafe, a young woman named Hamida, and other residents of the titular street.
  Part 3 (ans: Egypt):
    Mahfouz is the only Nobel prize winner from this Arabic-speaking country where his Cairo trilogy is set.

[B12] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play from this country, a convicted murderer is blasted into space for 300 years, before returning to earth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Egypt):
    The Voyage of Tomorrow is a play from what country, which also produced the absurdist play A Bullet in the Heart about Bahadir killing his wife Bihana to nourish an orange tree.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Tawfiq el-Hakim, the author of those plays, should be better known than this Egyptian novelist behind the Cairo Trilogy. This author was stabbed at the age of 82 for the alleged blasphemy of their novel Children of Gebelawi.
  Part 3 (ans: a cave):
    el-Hakim also adapted the Islamo-Christian Seven Sleepers legend into a play titled for this kind of location. Jose Saramago adapted a Platonic allegory about this kind of location into a short story about Cipriano Elgar.

[B13] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The racist photographer Julien becomes obsessed with an Algerian immigrant named for this character in a Leila Sebbar novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Scheherazade [or Sherazade; or Shahrzad]):
    Name this character whose "sister" titles a novel by Algerian author Assia Djebar about the wives Isma and Hajila. In the first section of an earlier book, this.character's sister visits her bedroom as part of a prearranged ploy.
  Part 2 (ans: Arabian Nights and Days):
    Scheherazade distrusts King Shahryar after being spared by him in this 1979 novel, a sequel to One Thousand and One Nights that includes stories like "Nur Al-Din and Dunyazad" and "The Cap of Invisibility."
  Part 3 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Arabian Nights and Days is by this Nobel laureate. The Nights is one of the books that inspires Kamal to study at the Teacher's College instead of a law school in this author's Cairo Trilogy.

[B14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: When this man flees his homeland after the death of Amenemhat, he crosses a river near a sycamore tree. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sinuhe):
    Name this virtuous man who becomes a high-ranking member of a foreign tribe, defeats a powerful rival in single combat and prays for the gods to return him to Egypt, where he lives out his life in royal favor.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph):
    In a reversal of Sinuhe's tale, this Biblical man becomes a high-ranking official in Egypt before returning to Israel. This man's brothers are jealous of the "coat of many colors" given to him by his father Jacob.
  Part 3 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    This author included an adaptation of the story of Sinuhe in his short story collection Voices from the Other World. Very mildly similar to Sinuhe, various people panic after the death of the country's ruler in his novel The Day the Leader Was Killed.

[B15] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character expelled his son from his mansion because he tried to read this man's secret will. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gebelawi):
    Name this character from a controversial novel whose descendants end up living in a filthy alley near his mansion. His family members symbolize various figures from Christianity, Judaism, and Islam.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    The novel Children of Gebelawi, also known as Children of the Alley, was written by this man, who was stabbed in 1994 by Islamic extremists who took offense at the book. This author also wrote such books as Palace of Desire and Sugar Street.
  Part 3 (ans: Cairo):
    Both Palace of Desire and Sugar Street are part of a trilogy of novels by Mahfouz named after this Egyptian city where all three books are set.

[B16] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about a man who tells his son, Kamal, to show him a single statue of a teacher when Kamal tells him that he wants to attend the Teachers College. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Name this author of a trilogy of novels titled for the residences of members of the al-Jawad family: Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street.
  Part 2 (ans: Cairo):
    That trilogy is named for this Egyptian city, which is also the setting of Mahfouz's other novels like Midaq Alley and The Thief and the Dogs.
  Part 3 (ans: British soldiers [accept obvious equivalents like British occupation troops; prompt on answers like British or English people]):
    Kamal befriends a number of these people, angering his older brother Fahmy; he also sees Fahmy's crush, Maryam, waving at one of these people named Julian. These people kill Fahmy at the end of Palace Walk.

[B17] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At age 82, this author was non-fatally stabbed twice in the neck while sitting in his car. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Name this author, who wrote about the assassination of his country's leader in the novel The Day the Leader was Killed. He also wrote Miramar.
  Part 2 (ans: Egypt):
    Mahfouz was a Nobel Prize-winning novelist from this African country.
  Part 3 (ans: Tawfiq al-Hakim):
    This prominent Egyptian playwright of the 20th century wrote The People of the Cave and A Bullet in the Heart.

[B18] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title characters of this book represent Adam, Moses, Jesus, Mohammed, and a magician. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Children of Gebelawi [or Children of the Alley]):
    Name this novel about five sons of a tyrannical patriarch, which earned its author a 1994 assassination attempt.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    This author of Children of Gebelawi described several generations of the Abd al-Jawad family in the novels Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street.
  Part 3 (ans: Kamal Abd al-Jawad):
    This possibly autobiographical character begins Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy as a curious and happy child. This man eventually becomes a teacher and carries his dying father home from an air raid shelter.

[B19] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this work, al-Sayyid's demands that his song Fahmi reduce his engagement in politics go unheeded. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palace Walk):
    Identify this novel in which Fahmi falls in love with his family's neighbor, Maryam.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Palace Walk is a novel by this Egyptian author of the Cairo Trilogy
  Part 3 (ans: Yasin Abd al-Jawad):
    In Palace Walk, this older brother of Fahmi is pleased to discover that he shares many similar deboucherous hobbies with his dictatorial father, al-Sayyid.

[B20] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This city is the setting of a work of literature recounting an affair between an expatriate British schoolteacher and a wealthy, mysterious woman named Justine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexandria):
    Name this city, which the title character "loses" in the poem "The God Abandons Antony."
  Part 2 (ans: Greece):
    Although the poet of "The God Abandons Antony", Constantine Cavafy, lived in Alexandria for his whole life, his poetry is written in the language of this nation.
  Part 3 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Another novel with multiple narration set in Alexandria is Miramar, penned by this Egyptian author of The Cairo Trilogy.

[B21] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this novel is a cafe owner named Tarzan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Thief and the Dogs [or El-Lis wa el-Kilab]):
    Name this novel about Said Mahran, the title criminal recently released from jail in Cairo. While seeking vengeance on his betrayers, he meets Rauf Ilwan, a former revolutionary leader who has abandoned his principles.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    The Thief and the Dogs is a novel by this Egyptian author of the Cairo Trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Miramar):
    This Mahfouz novel takes place at the title boarding house. Various characters represent Egyptian political philosophies and most are entranced with the servant girl Zohra.

[B22] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about a man that searches out Zaabalawi because he is struck with an incurable disease in a story from his collection God's World. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Name this author, who also wrote the novel Arabian Nights and Days.
  Part 2 (ans: Cairo [accept Cairo Trilogy]):
    Naguib Mahfouz wrote a trilogy of novels named for this city, which details the el-Gawad's lives in it during the 20th century. That trilogy consists of Palace Walk, Palace of Desire and Sugar Street.
  Part 3 (ans: Children of Gebelawi):
    Mahfouz also used Cairo as the setting of this novel, some of whose title figures are Rifa'a, Qasim and Gabal, representations of Christianity, Judaism and Islam.

[B23] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Residents of this city include a prostitute named Hamida, who lives on Midaq Alley. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cairo [or al-Qahira]):
    Name this city where one might find Palace Walk.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Palace Walk is the first novel of the Cairo Trilogy by this Nobel laureate from Egypt.
  Part 3 (ans: The Yacoubian Building [or 'Imarat ya'qubiyan]):
    Another novel set in Cairo is this Alaa al-Aswany novel about the residents of the title structure, who include a gay man named Hatim Rasheed.

[B24] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this novel is hit by a car on the one occasion that she does leave her house at the urging of her children and in direct defiance of her husband. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palace Walk [or Between the Two Palaces; or Bayn al-qasrayn]):
    Name this novel about the family of Al-Sayyid Ahmad Abd al-Jawad, who in its opening pages returns at an ungodly hour partying in a decidedly un-Islamic fashion to his wife Amina, who stays up waiting for him.
  Part 2 (ans: Naguib Mahfouz):
    Palace Walk is the first entry of the Cairo Trilogy written by this Egyptian Nobel Laureate, who wrote about the historic assassination of Sadat in The Day the Leader Was Killed.
  Part 3 (ans: Kamal):
    Mahfouz represented himself in the Cairo Trilogy as this character, whose struggle to become a writer is the focus of much of Palace of Desire. He pines after Aida, gets a degree in philosophy, and eventually becomes a schoolteacher.
