=== STOCK CLUES: Norman Foster ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Foster [accept Norman Foster; accept Hal Foster]
  - Adolf Loos inspired a critic with this surname to attack the proliferation of "design" in the collection Design and Crime. [PWR]
  - In The Art-Architecture Complex, that critic named Hal examined the "technocratic utopianism" of the "diagrid" motif used by an unrelated architect with this surname.
  - After leaving Team 4, that architect with this surname founded his country's largest architectural firm, named for him "plus Partners." Maintenance cranes looking like "cannons" are mounted on the roof of a building designed by an architect with this surname; that building is the (*) HSBC Main Building. [PWR]
  - "The Spaceship" is the nickname of the circular Apple Park designed by an architect of this surname who oversaw the reconstruction of the Reichstag.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of a British architect who designed a London skyscraper called "the Gherkin." [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Norman Foster [or Norman Robert Foster; or Baron Foster of Thames Bank]
  - This architect used a hollow concrete shaft with a diameter of 4.5 meters to support a ten-story pod in his guy-wire-supported Torre de Collserola .
  - One of his buildings incorporates a cast-stone base designed by Joseph Urban and features a "diagrid" facade that forms huge concave corner window structures known as "bird's mouths." This architect designed the world's tallest bridge, the Millau  Viaduct, as well as Manhattan's Hearst Tower.
  - He placed a mirror-paneled cone surrounded by two helical ramps under a cupola  that he added to a building that was wrapped by Jean-Claude and Christo before its 1990s reconstruction.
  - Swiss Re  is the primary occupant of a skyscraper he designed at 30 St Mary Axe that is popularly known as "the Gherkin." For 10 points, name this British high-tech architect who restored the Reichstag . [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Norman Foster
  - One of this architect's buildings has two concrete cannons on the roof to combat bad feng shui from a nearby building designed by I.
  - M. [PWR]
  - Pei. [PWR]
  - He put "bird's mouth" indents in the corners of a tower that was built on top of a 1928 building by Joseph Urban.
  - This architect worked with engineer Michel Virlogeux to design a bridge over the Tarn River; that bridge is the Millau Viaduct and is the tallest in the world. [PWR]
  - He placed an inverted-cone-shaped assembly of mirrors in the center of a structure that can be climbed via a spiral walkway. [PWR]
  - This architect of the (*) Hearst Tower and the Hong Kong HSBC Building designed a glass dome for the restored Reichstag building, as well as a skyscraper with a distinctive ovoid shape at 30 St Mary Axe.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of London's "Gherkin" building. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Norman Foster [or Lord Norman Robert Foster of Thames Bank]
  - This architect designed the zero-emission Eurogate as part of his redevelopment project of Duisburg, Germany.
  - A city hall designed by this architect has a bulbous shape in order to reduce the area exposed to direct sunlight, causing it to be nicknamed "The Glass Gonad." A 2003 meeting of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions inspired him to create a pyramid with a 62 by 62 meter base with four "hands of peace." Besides creating the Khan Shatyr Entertainment Centre and the Palace of Peace and Reconciliation in Astana, this architect formed a partnership called Team 4 with Richard Rogers.
  - Following German reunification, this architect added a steel and glass dome to the Reichstag.
  - For 10 points, name this British architect who designed the new Wembley Stadium and a London skyscraper known as the Gherkin. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two answers required. A building designed by one of these two architects, the Lloyd's Building, sits across the street from the other's Willis Building. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Norman Foster AND Richard Rogers):
    Name these pioneers of high-tech architecture who met at Yale. These two architects and their future spouses, Su Brumwell and Wendy Cheesman, founded the firm Team 4, which designed the Reliance Controls factory.
  Part 2 (ans: London, England):
    Both the Lloyd's Building and the Willis Building are in this city, where Foster later designed The Gherkin.
  Part 3 (ans: Renzo Piano (The buildings are the Centre Pompidou and The Shard.)):
    After separating from Foster, Rogers collaborated with this architect on a building whose exterior is covered with color-coded tubes. This architect also designed the tallest building in London.

[B2] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The 9th Aga Khan Award for Architecture recognized two buildings named for this company that use an eight-pointed star floor plan inspired by the Rub el Hizb. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Petronas [accept Petronas Towers]):
    Name this state-owned company that names a pair of Cesar Pelli-designed towers connected by an iconic sky bridge.
  Part 2 (ans: minarets [or manara or midana; accept Qutb Minar]):
    The Petronas Towers' star-shaped floor plan has drawn comparisons to Delhi's Qutb complex, the site of one of these tall, slender towers found at mosques.
  Part 3 (ans: Norman Foster [or Norman Robert Foster]):
    This architect's star-shaped complex for the Petronas University of Technology won in the 10th Aga Khan Award cycle. This architect's firm designed Hong Kong International Airport and the HSBC Building.

[B3] 2023 British Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Geography
     Leadin: The Haberdashers, Lightmongers, and Skinners are some of the 111 livery companies headquartered in this district. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: City of London [prompt on the City, prompt on the Square Mile; do NOT accept or prompton "London" or "Greater London"]):
    Name this district, home to the biggest financial district in the UK.
  Part 2 (ans: the Gherkin):
    One of the most iconic buildings in the City of London is this skyscraper, with a name referencing its 'cucumber' shape. This skyscraper is officially known as 30 St. Mary Axe.
  Part 3 (ans: Norman Foster):
    The Gherkin was designed by this British architect's firm. This architect also designed the restored Reichstag building, and the Apple Headquarters in California.

[B4] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The New York Times's architecture critic, Michael Kimmelman, was nominated for a 2018 Pulitzer Prize for a series that discusses the need to reduce this metric in building projects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: carbon footprint [prompt on environmental impact or similar; prompt on carbon emissions]):
    Identify this metric. The 2019 "Architects Declare" manifesto lists several methods for reducing this metric, including life cycle assessment, upgrading buildings rather than demolishing them, and switching to "low embodied" materials.
  Part 2 (ans: Norman Foster):
    The founding signatories of the manifesto included this architect, who designed a zero-carbon, zero-waste city named Masdar for the United Arab Emirates. He designed London City Hall in the shape of a "glass testicle" to improve its energy efficiency, and his other London buildings include "The Gherkin."
  Part 3 (ans: David Chipperfield):
    Another British signatory was this museum-loving architect, whose work includes the Hepworth Wakefield museum, the Neues Museum in Berlin, and a recent extension to the St. Louis Art Museum. He is currently working on a sustainable redesign of the Met's modern and contemporary art wing.

[B5] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the Hong Kong headquarters of HSBC, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Norman Foster):
    The building was designed by this man, a British architect best known for his restoration of the Reichstag and his work on "the Gherkin."
  Part 2 (ans: cannons):
    At the top of the HSBC Hong Kong, two cranes made to look like these implements were installed to aim at the nearby Bank of China building to combat its bad feng shui.
  Part 3 (ans: lions):
    Two statues of these animals sit outside of the building, and are actually replicas of a pair outside of the HSBC Shanghai. Two statues of these royal cats outside of the New York Public Library are named Patience and Fortitude.

[B6] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these locations on Boylston Street in Boston features a glass spiral staircase, while the one near the Burj Khalifa has windows made out of carbon fiber rods that open when temperature rises. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Apple stores [prompt on electronics stores; reject "Apple Park"]):
    Name these typically sleek and minimalist retail locations that sell products such as the iPhone and the Macbook.
  Part 2 (ans: Norman Foster [or Norman Robert Foster, Baron Foster of Thames Bank]):
    The Apple Park and many Apple stores were designed by an architectural firm named for this architect "plus Partners." This architect also designed the Hearst Tower in Manhattan and the HSBC Tower in Hong Kong.
  Part 3 (ans: Jony Ive [accept Sir Jonathan Paul Ive]):
    This former chief designer at Apple designed Apple Park along with Foster and Partners. He is credited with implementing the translucent plastic shell on the iMac G3 and the decision to move away from the skeuomorphic design for the interface of IOS 7.

[B7] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man designed structures like the Zentrum Paul Klee and the New York Times Building. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Renzo Piano):
    Name this Italian architect, whose other works include the Shard and the Centre Georges Pompidou.
  Part 2 (ans: Japan):
    Piano designed an international airport on an artificial island in this country. Frank Lloyd Wright designed a hotel in this country which withstood a 7.9-magnitude earthquake.
  Part 3 (ans: Norman Foster):
    This architect of Hong Kong International Airport also designed Heathrow's new Terminal 2. He also designed Manhattan's Hearst Tower and a building located at 30 St. Mary Axe.

[B8] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: Answer these questions about arcology, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arizona [the building is Taliesin West]):
    Paolo Soleri built the earthwork-inspired arcology of Arcosanti in this state. A nearly acoustically-perfect hexagonal cabaret theater can be found in this state, in a building that features a sunken garden surrounded by sloping plastic-covered roofing to permit only horizontal light flow.
  Part 2 (ans: New Orleans):
    A 2011 proposal called for a futuristic arcological megastucture in the shape of a pyramid emerging from the Mississippi in this city. As it still lacks the money to rebuild countless homes after Katrina, residents did not care.
  Part 3 (ans: Norman Foster):
    Abu Dhabi's planned arcological city of Masdar is being overseen by this man's firm, which built the Khan Shatyr Center and Palace of Peace and Reconciliation in Astana. His trademark glass dome work can be seen in Berlin's Reichstag.

[B9] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist designed the San Cataldo Cemetery as well as the newest version of the Carlo Felice Theater. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aldo Rossi):
    Name this architect of the Bonnefanten Museum in Maastricht and the Quartier Schutzenstrasse in Berlin.
  Part 2 (ans: Norman Foster):
    This British architect of "the Gherkin" in London made the design for the 1990's reconstruction of the Berlin Reichstag.
  Part 3 (ans: a quadriga):
    Johann Gottfried Schadow designed one of these sculptures to top the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin. Venice's Horses of Saint Mark's form one of these sculptures, defined as a chariot drawn by four horses.
