=== STOCK CLUES: Infinite Jest ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 28 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 32 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: "This is Water" [prompt on Infinite Jest before second line with "What work's opening anecdote was lifted from Infinite Jest?"]
  - At an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting in one novel, the biker Bob Death recounts the opening anecdote from this work to a character who used to close elevator doors on his square-shaped head. [PWR]
  - After being told to "Have a nice day" by "a voice that is the absolute voice of death," the speaker of this work enters a lengthy diatribe that is interrupted by loud applause about the "most disgustingly selfish vehicles" while stuck in a traffic jam.
  - In this work, the speaker argues that "the only thing [that is] (*) capital-T True" is how people choose to think when confronted with the "boredom, routine, and petty frustration" of adult American life.
  - In this speech's opening "didactic little parable," two young fish are confused by an older fish who asks a question about the title substance.
  - For 10 points, name this 2005 Kenyon College commencement speech delivered by David Foster Wallace. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "the Entertainment" [or Infinite Jest; or the videotape from Infinite Jest; or the entertainment cartridge from Infinite Jest; or "the samizdat"; accept James Orin Incandenza's final film or equivalents until "Incandenza" is read]
  - While discussing this object, a character recalls his "Mummykins" finding his father's letters addressed to a Maury Linville in Korea.
  - During a fever, a character dreams that he is discovering this object before the appearance of an angelic woman who isn't wearing underwear and a boy whose face says "Too Late." A character analogizes this object to a group of students volunteering for a treatment used for epilepsy in rats.
  - The Antitoi brothers are given this object, which is first encountered by a medical attache treating Toblerone-induced maxillofacial yeast.
  - This object is sought after by Hugh Steeply and Remy Marathe, who fear its use by the Quebecois A.F.R.
  - This work is the last one by a man attempting to cure his son's anhedonia who commits suicide by sticking his head in a microwave.
  - For 10 points, name this fatally addictive final film of James Incandenza that shares its title with the novel it appears in. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Infinite Jest
  - A character in this novel has an inexplicable tattoo reading "Pamela" on his hip and uses a SteelSak to kill animals. [PWR]
  - Another character in this novel dresses entirely in black clothing, hence his nickname "The Darkness." The tour in the wake of this book's publication was the subject of David Lipsky's book Although Of Course You End Up Becoming Your Self. [PWR]
  - U.S.O.U.S. officer Hugh Steeply, who often disguises himself as "Helen," liaises with Remy Marathe, a quadruple agent ostensibly working for a (*) Quebecois separatist group in this novel. [PWR]
  - The deformed Mario and Phoenix Cardinals punter Orin are members of this novel's central family.
  - Another member of that family included an apology delivered by Joelle van Dyne in a film known as "the Entertainment" because it obsesses anyone who views it.
  - For 10 points, name this novel set largely at the Enfield Tennis Academy, starring many members of the Incandenza family and written by David Foster Wallace. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Infinite Jest
  - One character in this novel recounts how he ended his depression by saving the life of a woman in a "metal hat" on a Provincial Auto-route, and in another scene, Balbalis sets up a mirror on a road to get a bus to swerve off-road. [PWR]
  - One character is said to be deformed by Molly Notkin, though that character wears a veil because she claims anyone who sees her falls in love with her. [PWR]
  - Remy Marathe is a member of the A.F.R., and the members of another group include the killer of M. [PWR]
  - DuPlessis, (*) Don Gately, as well as Joelle Van Dyne, Orin's girlfriend; those characters attend a Drug and Alcohol Recovery House.
  - This novel includes a film that is too pleasurable to watch, and the Year of Glad marks the end of the Subsidized Time chronology of it.
  - For 10 points, name this novel about the Incandenza family whose member James founds the Enfield Tennis Academy, by David Foster Wallace. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Infinite Jest
  - One character's inability to "make [him]self understood" in the chronologically last scene of this novel may be due to the effects of the drug DMZ.
  - On Interdependence Day, that character watches a game of Eschaton degenerate into chaos after a heated argument over the map-territory relation.
  - Another character develops an attraction to the P.G.O.A.T while serving as an on-site Staffer at Ennet House.
  - Don Gately appears in this novel, in which Hugh Steeply is a cross-dressing agent who meets with a member of the Wheelchair Assassins and attempts to locate the titular "Entertainment." This work largely occurs during the Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment, and it is partially set at the Enfield Tennis Academy, where Hal Incandenza is a student.
  - For 10 points, name this footnote-heavy magnum opus of David Foster Wallace. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about increasingly elusive films from postmodern American novels, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    A deadly film listed in the endnote filmography of James Incandenza serves as a MacGuffin in this meganovel.
  Part 2 (ans: Running Dog):
    Moll Robbins, a reporter for the title Rolling Stone-esque magazine, searches for a pornographic film of Adolf Hitler in this 1978 novel by Don Delillo.
  Part 3 (ans: Antkind (by Charlie Kaufman) (Iain Reid wrote I'm Thinking of Ending Things.)):
    In this novel, the only copy of a monumental three-month-long film by Black Florida director Ingo Cutbirth is destroyed, leaving the film critic B. Rosenberger Rosenberg as the only person alive who had seen it. This novel is the debut of the film director who adapted Iain Reid's first novel.

[B2] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Hilary A. Clark defined this genre as prose concerned with the discovery and ordering of knowledge, and wrote a 1992 paper titled for this genre's "Discourse." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: encyclopedic novels [or encyclopedic prose or encyclopedic literature; accept "Encyclopedic Discourse"; do not accept or prompt on encyclopedia (s)]):
    Two essays by Edward Mendelson originated the term for what genre of books such as Moby-Dick that attempt to "render the full range of... a national culture"?
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Pynchon):
    One of Mendelson's original essays was titled "Gravity's Encyclopedia" in reference to this author's encyclopedic novel Gravity's Rainbow.
  Part 3 (ans: endnotes to Infinite Jest [do not accept or prompt on footnotes]):
    Three hundred and eighty eight of these things that appear in a 1996 novel provide encyclopedic elements such as definitions of drugs, information on the layout of a tennis academy, and a filmography.

[B3] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author created a character whose oddities may stem from eating a piece of mold or an encounter with the drug DMZ. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Foster Wallace (The novel is Infinite Jest.)):
    Name this author who created Hal, a genius who memorizes the Oxford English Dictionary and smokes weed in tunnels beneath a tennis academy.
  Part 2 (ans: David Auburn):
    In a play by this other David, Hal learns that a mathematical breakthrough attributed to his dead advisor Robert was really written by Robert's daughter Catherine. That play, Proof, won the 2001 Pulitzer Prize for Drama.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur C. Clarke [or Arthur Charles Clarke]):
    Perhaps the most classic Hal/David pair, HAL 9000 and Dr. David Bowman, comes from this science fiction author's 2001: A Space Odyssey.

[B4] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This man savaged Sven Birkerts as a "critic who seems unaware of the inner workings of his own profession" in "The Man Who Would Be Sven," a piece whose meanness he would later regret. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dale Peck):
    Name this longtime literary critic for The New Republic. The line "Rick Moody is the worst writer of his generation" opens his essay collection Hatchet Jobs.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Pynchon (The novel is Inherent Vice.)):
    In an essay on David Foster Wallace, Peck argued that this other author hasn't produced one "recognizably human character" in his 30-year career. Private investigator Doc Sportello squares off against Detective "Bigfoot" Bjornsen in a novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    Peck argued that David Foster Wallace's analogy of entertainment addiction to drug addiction in this novel was fundamentally flawed; in it, the title James Incandenza movie turns any viewer into an addict.

[B5] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following novels that are exhaustively laden with footnotes and endnotes, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: House of Leaves):
    Footnotes, some of which contain further footnotes, and some of which appear struck through and/or in red text, litter this Mark Z. Danielewski novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    This doorstopper's 388 endnotes appear under the header "Notes and Errata," and range from details about the Enfield Tennis Academy to the complete filmography of James O. Incandenza.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mezzanine (by Nicholson Baker)):
    This novel opens with a description of a cashier girl offering the narrator a straw for his carton of milk, prompting a page-long, digressive footnote chronicling society's transition from paper straws to plastic straws.

[B6] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The final, May 2016 issue of this site features a review of On the Abolition of All Political Parties that imagines the final thoughts of its author, Simone Weil, as she lay dying in a rural English sanatorium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bookslut.com [or Blog of a Bookslut]):
    Identify this influential literary blog that often highlighted books by women and people of color who were ignored by mainstream publishers. It was founded in 2002 as a side venture by Jessa Crispin, who was working for Planned Parenthood in Austin at the time.
  Part 2 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    In her "Slutlesson" "How To Talk Like You've Read Something You Haven't," Crispin suggests referencing a scene from early in this novel in which Orin Incandenza traps cockroaches in upside down glasses because he's afraid to kill them.
  Part 3 (ans: Michiko Kakutani [or Michi Kakutani]):
    In a 2006 interview with the overlooked author A.M Homes, Bookslut decried the savaging of her novel This Book Will Save Your Life at the hands of this "increasingly irrelevant New York Times hitwoman." To her credit though, reviews written by this Japanese-American critic have pissed off both Nassim Taleb and Jonathan Franzen.

[B7] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This work of Ergodic literature centers on The Navidson Record, a film that documents "the Five and a Half Minute Hallway" and five explorations of the randomly terrifying abyss behind the door. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: House of Leaves):
    Name this novel about Johnny Truant's move into Zampano's apartment and the manuscript he finds there, a work by Mark Z. Danielewski.
  Part 2 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    This 1996 novel's title refers to a film that causes viewers to lose interest in anything other than watching it. Its author, David Foster Wallace, also included copious amounts of footnotes in it.
  Part 3 (ans: The Tunnel):
    In this William Gass novel, the Nazi studies professor Kohler digs a massive hole in his basement while reflecting on his troubled life.

[B8] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a story after the death of a high school classmate named Neal that begins with the line "My whole life I've been a fraud". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Foster Wallace):
    Name this author whose story "Good Old Neon" appears in the collection Oblivion. His story about the Jeopardy-winning Julie appears in his first collection, Girl with Curious Hair.
  Part 2 (ans: Brief Interviews with Hideous Men):
    This Wallace collection includes a second-person story about a boy's thirteenth birthday at a swimming pool, "Forever Overhead", as well as "The Depressed Person". Many of its stories consist of questions and
  Part 3 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    Wallace's most famous work is this novel about the Incandenza family, whose member James founds the Enfield Tennis Academy.

[B9] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Michael Pemulis is the greatest ever player player of a hybrid apocalyptic war and tennis game called Eschaton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    Name this David Foster Wallace novel nominally about the Incandenza family.
  Part 2 (ans: Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment [prompt on "Y.D.A.U."; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]):
    Exact

[B10] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's title refers to a film created by the protagonist's father, which is the targeted by Quebecois terrorists who hope to use it to prevent the annexation of a polluted New England into Canada. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    Name this novel ending in the "Year of Glad," whose protagonist, Hal Incandenza attends the Enfield Tennis Academy. Other settings in this novel include the Ennet House Drug and Alcohol Recovery House.
  Part 2 (ans: David Foster Wallace):
    Infinite Jest is the masterpiece of this late postmodern American author whose other works include the posthumously published The Pale King and the article "Federer as Religious Experience."
  Part 3 (ans: "Consider the Lobster"):
    In this essay that Wallace first published in Gourmet magazine, the neurobiology of the title creature is detailed to highlight the fact it can feel pain, a subject that garnered controversy when it was published.

[B11] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay collection discusses the paradoxical strategy to sell John McCain as "not-for-sale" in "Up, Simba" and describes the annual Adult Video News awards in "Big Red Son." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Consider the Lobster):
    Name this 2006 essay collection whose title piece discusses a trip to a food festival in Maine and asks whether it is right to inflict pain on the title creature in order to eat it.
  Part 2 (ans: Infinite Jest):
    This very, very long novel by the author of Consider the Lobster, David Foster Wallace, is titled for a video called "The Entertainment" whose viewers become so engrossed that they forget to do anything but watch it.
  Part 3 (ans: Joelle van Dyne [or Joelle van Dyne; or the Prettiest Girl of All Time]):
    The star of the title film in Infinite Jest is this girl, who runs a radio show called "60 min +/-" under the name Madame Psychosis and wears a veil to hide her face.
