=== STOCK CLUES: Pinter ===
Tossup questions: 16 found, 82 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 32 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter(The second play is No Man's Land.)
  - In a play by this author, a woman mysteriously repeats the line "and there's lots of insects there" in a speech beginning "six years ago, I went to America". [PWR]
  - At the end of a play by this author, an intellectual who mistakenly saw a body in an icy pond is told that they inhabit a place which "never moves and never changes". [PWR]
  - This author created a misogynistic character for one play who assumes the "diseased" nature of a woman that had made him "a certain proposal". [PWR]
  - This author's first wife Vivien (*) Merchant starred in a 1973 adaptation of that work, in which thephilosopher Teddy leaves his family home without his wife Ruth.
  - Ben points his gun at Gus at the end of another play by this author in which the two are sent restaurant orders by the title device.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright whose 'comedies of menace' include The Homecoming and The Dumb Waiter. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - In a play by this author, a character remarks, "I hate brandy... it stinks of modern literature" while at an Italian restaurant.
  - In that play by this author, that character reminisces about taking a speedboat to Torcello to read Yeats alone.
  - At the end of a different play by this author, a character who had left to get a drink of water returns stripped of some of his clothing and his gun.
  - A character in that play by this author yells "Kaw!" after reading about a "child of eight" killing a cat and a "man of eighty-seven" crawling under a lorry.
  - Two characters in a play by this author argue about the difference between the phrases "light the kettle" and "put on the kettle" and send items like a stale Eccles  cake up the title device.
  - For 10 points, what playwright of Betrayal wrote about the hitmen Gus and Ben in The Dumb Waiter? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - A play by this author ends with a man being told his son "was a little prick" by Nicolas, implying his son is dead.
  - With Arthur Miller, this playwright visited imprisoned authors in Turkey, whose treatment inspired his play One for the Road.
  - This author denounced the U.S. invasion of Iraq in "Art, Truth & Politics," his 2005 Nobel Lecture.
  - Instructions like "shut the door behind him [...] without divulging your presence" are repeated by characters who receive twelve matches in a play by this author, which ends with a gun pointed at the lavatory door.
  - Wilson's orders and the phrase "light the kettle" are disputed by the hitmen Ben and Gus in a play by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Dumb Waiter. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: physicist [accept particle physicist or nuclear physicist; prompt on (nuclear) scientist] (The first two sentences refer to Attempts on Her Life by Martin Crimp and Applicant by Harold Pinter.)
  - In one play, an unseen character named Anne is implied to have this occupation during a scene in which she is said to own an ashtray and speak five languages. [PWR]
  - Before being subjected to a bizarre screening process carried out by the "efficient" Miss Piffs, a character claims this profession is his "whole life" in a sketch by Harold Pinter. [PWR]
  - A character with this occupation claims that the "the faster you ski, the better you (*) think", while another repeatedly refers to a poker game in which he "bluffed himself" by misreading his cards. [PWR]
  - One character with this occupation claims the "bomb had already gone off" inside his colleague's brain during a meeting in Denmark.
  - For 10 points, name this occupation held by the two protagonists of Michael Frayn's Copenhagen, featuring a meeting between Werner Heisenberg and Niels Bohr. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 On Cinema at the Buzzer (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - In a screenplay by this writer, based on a novel by a different writer, Robert repeatedly says "My father was a very big man. [PWR]
  - All his life he wore a black mustache." In another screenplay by this writer, Hugo Barrett manipulates Tony into becoming an alcoholic who is totally dependent on him.
  - This author, who adapted Ian McEwan's The Comfort of Strangers into a screenplay for Paul Schrader, collaborated with the director Joseph (*) Losey on films like The Servant.
  - This screenwriter worked with Di Trevis on an as-yet-unproduced adaptation of In Search of Lost Time.
  - William Friedkin directed an adaptation of a play by this author in which Goldberg and McCann terrorize Stanley.
  - For 10 points, name this British author who wrote screen adaptations of his plays Betrayal and The Birthday Party. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - Two characters in a play by this author never play squash together despite repeatedly mentioning it, though one of them played regularly with Casey.
  - One of this author's characters angrily yells that "We've got nothing left!
  - Nothing!
  - Do you understand?" in a play in which he had earlier shown his friend a picture of "The First Eleven." At the end of a play by this author, a character who had left to get a glass of water stumbles back in, stripped of some clothing and his gun, before the curtain falls.
  - Robert reveals he was aware of Jerry's affair with his wife Emma in a play by this author in reverse chronological order.
  - In a play by this author of Betrayal, the mysterious Wilson sends orders through the title device to hitmen Ben and Gus.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Dumb Waiter. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - In a play by this author, a character professes "you dazzle me, you jewel, my jewel" before asking "catatonia, do you know the state of catatonia?" In another play by this author, a character frightens his wife when he tells her that a mysterious van with a wheelbarrow is coming to look for a "certain person." At the start of a play by this author, the writer Roger Casey is the subject of a conversation between Emma and Jerry, whose affair unfolds in reverse chronological order.
  - In a scene written by this author, a character gets his glasses broken and attempts to rape Lulu during a game of blind man's bluff.
  - In that play by this author, Meg gives Stanley a toy drum, which is broken during a night with Goldberg and McCann.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of Betrayal and The Birthday Party. [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - One character in a play by this author reports being told to 'piss off' by a monk in Luton because he asked for a pair of shoes.
  - This playwright's authorised biographer Michael Billington argued that Sidcup acts as a 'Kentish Eldorado' in their works.
  - In another play by this author, a woman refuses to 'go the whole hog' in a sexual encounter with Joey.
  - A play by this author begins with Aston inviting the homeless Davies into his flat and later offering him the title job, while in another, a speaking tube delivers instructions to the hitmen Ben and Gus, who receive food through the title device.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright who portrayed Ruth's Homecoming and wrote The Caretaker, whose 'comedies of menace' also include The Dumb Waiter. [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - Two characters in a play by this author sing a song that follows the play's title with, "If the women don't get you, the liquor must." At the end of that play by this author, Rebecca repeatedly tells Devlin that she doesn't "know of any baby." A character created by this playwright doesn't go "the whole hog" during a two-hour sexual encounter, but tells his brother Lenny that he was satisfied anyway.
  - Ruth, the only female character in that play by him, abandons her husband Teddy to work as a prostitute for his other family members.
  - In another play by this author of Ashes to Ashes, two characters discuss the unseen character Wilson, as well as requests that they receive for "Ormitha Macarounada." In that play by this author, the hitman Ben is hired to kill his partner Gus, an order that he receives from the title conveyance.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "comedies of menace" such as The Homecoming and The Dumb Waiter. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - In one of this author's plays, Nicolas incessantly asks Gila if she has been raped as he tortures her and her husband Victor after killing their son Nicky.
  - In a play by this man, a group of brothers euphemize sex as "going the whole hog" (+) during a scene in which one of them is secretly upstairs with another's wife. [PWR]
  - That play by this man ends with Ruth stepping over Sam's motionless body to approach Lenny, Teddy's brother. [PWR]
  - This man who contrasted the search for truth in art with truth in politics in his Nobel Prize Acceptance speech (*) "Art, Truth, and Politics" wrote a play in reverse chronology which reveals the lengthy affair between Jerry and Emma. [PWR]
  - Ben is instructed to shoot Gus at the end of a play by, for 10 points, what British author of The Homecoming, Betrayal and The Dumb Waiter? [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - One play by this author opens with a character looking for a pair of scissors to cut out an article from last Sunday's newspaper. [PWR]
  - In that play by this author, a woman agrees to stay in London and work as a prostitute for three men while her husband returns to America. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, two men circle each other with chairs raised above their heads after one of them kicks a man in the stomach, but they are interrupted by a woman with a (*) toy drum. [PWR]
  - This author of The Homecoming wrote a play in which two characters argue about the phrase "light the kettle" before it is revealed that one of them has been hired to assassinate the other.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Birthday Party who wrote about Gus and Ben receiving food via the titular conveyance in The Dumbwaiter. [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - A woman in one of this author's plays gives a monologue beginning "I remember you lying dead" that relates how she almost suffocated her husband with dirt from a flowerpot.
  - This author wrote a play in which Anna admits to borrowing Kate's underwear and letting Deeley look up her skirt.
  - In another of his plays, Pauline and Hornby try to help Deborah come to terms with her new life after she wakes from a 30-year coma.
  - This playwright of Old Times and A Kind of Alaska wrote a play in which Mick smashes a statue of the Buddha while arguing with Davies, a tramp whom Aston has invited to stay at their home.
  - For 10 points, what Nobel-winning British playwright of The Caretaker created hitmen named Ben and Gus who receive mysterious directives in his The Dumbwaiter? [GIVE]

[T13] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - A play by this author ends with a woman's speech about looking at her roommate's dead body, then covering the face of a man with dirt from a flower box.
  - In a play by this author, a character taunts another for being upstairs with a woman for two hours without going "whole hog" and is enraged when his cheese roll is eaten. [PWR]
  - In that play's last scene, a chauffeur reveals Jessie's affair before collapsing.
  - One of his plays opens with a woman serving cornflakes and ends with her (*) saying "I was the belle of the ball." Teddy brings his wife Ruth to his father's house in a play by this author. [PWR]
  - One of his plays climaxes with a game of Blind Man's Bluff, after which two men take Stanley away from Meg's boarding house.
  - For 10 points, name this British playwright who wrote Old Times, The Homecoming, and The Birthday Party. [GIVE]

[T14] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - In a play by this author, a man remembers tossing another character's child in the air at a party, but doesn't remember that it happened in his kitchen.
  - The unseen author Casey is frequently mentioned by that play's male leads, who run a publishing company and play squash.
  - A play by this author opens with a character reading news stories about an old man being run over by a bus and an eight-year-old killing a cat.
  - One of his plays details Jerry and Emma's affair in reverse chronological order.
  - This author wrote a play in which an argument over the phrase "light the kettle" takes place in a basement equipped with a speaking tube where the hit men Gus and Ben wait for their assignment.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of Betrayal and The Dumb Waiter. [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - In one work by this playwright a character is thoroughly disappointed that "the Villa" are playing away, as this means he cannot go watch them play.
  - In another work of this man the central character, who pretends to be a concert pianist, receives a toy drum as a present.
  - Another of his works is perhaps best known for taking place in reverse chronological author, and is titled The Betrayal.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Harold Pinter
  - In one of this man's plays, ongoing discussions of the quality of Roger Casey's writing are interspersed in a reverse narrative showing the path taken by an affair between Emma and her husband's friend Jerry, while another of this man's plays ends with Bert Sands beating a black man named Riley as his wife repeats "I can't see." This man is the author of a play in which two characters argue over the true nature of the death of a (*) cat supposedly killed by an eight-year-old girl and receive food orders from the title structure as well as debate the phrases "light the kettle" and "put the kettle on" before it is revealed that Gus is to be killed by his partner Ben.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Betrayal and The Dumb Waiter who wrote about Stanley in The Birthday Party. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While acting in this play, Ralph Richardson asked the audience, "is there a doctor in the house?", and when a doctor raised his hand, Richardson said "terrible play, isn't it doctor?" and resumed acting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: What the Butler Saw (by Joe Orton)):
    Name this play that premiered in 1966 after its author's murder by his lover Kenneth Halliwell. At the end of this play, a sergeant wearing a dress descends from a skylight and asks for a politician's "missing parts."
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Peter Hall directed Ralph Richardson and John Gielgud ("GHEEL-good") in this author's play No Man's Land. This playwright wrote The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: mental asylums [or sanatoriums; or insane asylums; or psychiatric hospitals; or mental hospitals; prompt on hospitals]):
    Gielgud and Richardson also starred together in David Storey's play Home, which is set in this sort of place. The frame stories of Peter Weiss's Marat/Sade and Friedrich Durrenmatt's The Physicists occur in these places.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: After paying a man half a crown, another man yells "THAT'S WHAT I WANT!" and hurls this object, which rested on a non-functional gas stove. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buddha statue [prompt on statue or sculpture by asking "Of what?"]):
    Identify this object that Mick smashes after accusing Davies of lying about being an interior decorator and never going to Sidcup to recover his papers.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Mick breaks the statue while yelling at the homeless man Davies in The Caretaker, a "comedy of menace" by this British playwright who wrote The Dumbwaiter.
  Part 3 (ans: Alan Bennett):
    This other British playwright wrote about the 15 years that the homeless Mary Shepherd spent living in his driveway in the play The Lady in the Van. This author of The Madness of George III depicted a meeting between W. H. Auden and Benjamin Britten in his play The Habit of Art.

[B3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The first production of this play at the Royal Court Theatre was excoriated by the Guardian's Michael Billington as "naive tosh". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blasted):
    Name this play set in a hotel room that is later struck by a bomb. At the end of Scene Three of this play, a soldier states, "Poor bastard. Poor love. Poor fucking bastard.".
  Part 2 (ans: in-yer-face theatre):
    Sarah Kane's Blasted was cited as a seminal play of this theatrical style characterised by gratuitous violence and obscenity. This style's hyphenated three-word name was coined by Aleks Sierz ("sears").
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    One influence on in-yer-face theatre may be the sinister tone evoked by this playwright of "comedies of menace" such as The Room and The Birthday Party.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The literary critic Irving Wardle used this term to describe absurdist plays that "allow the agents and victims of destruction to come on and off duty" and "to joke about the situation while oiling a revolver." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: comedy of menace):
    Name this term, which describes the absurdist mixture of danger and humor in plays like The Birthday Party.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    The term "comedy of menace" was coined in response to the works of this absurdist British playwright, who wrote The Birthday Party.
  Part 3 (ans: A Kind of Alaska):
    Later in his career, Pinter shifted from writing comedies of menace to writing "memory plays," like this work of his in which Deborah wakes up from a 30 year coma, still with the mind of a 16-year old but the body of a middle aged woman.

[B5] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the opening of a play, Phaedra recites a poem titled for this city as her voice is drowned out by music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerusalem):
    Name this city that titles a play about the wanted man Rooster set on St. George's Day by Jez Butterworth.
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    This author, who wrote a "prophetic book" titled Jerusalem: The Emanation of the Giant Albion, inspired Jez Butterworth with a poem that opens "and did those feet in ancient time."
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Butterworth's play The Winterling was a dark homage to this author, who Butterworth said had a "ginormous influence" on him. This author wrote the plays The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.

[B6] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author committed suicide after writing a play devoid of characters or stage directions which is thought to represent the experience of living with depression. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sarah Kane (The second play is Blasted.)):
    Name this author of 4.48 Psychosis. A play by this author set in a hotel room ends after a woman gives food and gin to a man who had just eaten a baby.
  Part 2 (ans: Caryl Churchill [or Caryl Lesley Churchill]):
    This author commended Sarah Kane's play Blasted and called it "rather a tender play." This author of Cloud 9 included several fictional and historical women in the play Top Girls.
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Pinter ):
    At Sarah Kane's funeral, this close friend of Kane only said, "she was a poet." This author became popular with The Caretaker, a play written after the commercial failures The Birthday Party and The Dumbwaiter.

[B7] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The Irving Berlin track "Always" plays during these events, which one character uses to gather information for his novel The Unseen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: seances):
    Name these events that Madame Arcati puts on for the Bradmans and the Condomines in Noel Coward's play Blithe Spirit.
  Part 2 (ans: maid [prompt on servant] (The other play is The Maids by Jean Genet.)):
    Charles Condomine's dead wife Elvira comes back after a seance through Edith, a character with this profession. In another play, a character with this profession blackmails a coworker with letters from Mario the milkman.
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    This playwright directed a revival of Coward's Blithe Spirit for the National Theatre in 1976. This own author's plays include The Birthday Party and The Dumbwaiter.

[B8] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This performance framework includes a role called the "Joker," a neutral party who mediates between actors and audience. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Theater of the Oppressed [or Teatro do Oprimido; accept TO]):
    Identify this performance framework whose subtypes include Image Theater and Forum Theater. Audience members in this framework are "spect-actors" who often interact with the performance.
  Part 2 (ans: Bertolt Brecht [or Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht]):
    Augusto Boal developed the Theater of the Oppressed as an alternative to the didacticism of this author's epic theater, which is found in plays like The Good Person of Szechwan.
  Part 3 (ans: homeless [or houseless; accept descriptions such as living on the street; accept alternative or disparaging names like vagrant or tramp; prompt on poor or impoverished] (The character is Davies from The Caretaker by Harold Pinter.)):
    Groups that practice Forum Theater include the UK's Cardboard Citizens, which is made up of people with this status. In a Pinter play, a character who begins with this status often talks about retrieving his papers in Sidcup.

[B9] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of this play's second act, a group of men light cigars after lunch, but one goes out early. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Homecoming):
    Identify this play, which ends with the female protagonist saying "kiss me." After two characters in this play go upstairs but don't have sex, one character asks another if he's satisfied without "going the whole hog."
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    The Homecoming is one of the "comedies of menace" by this British playwright. This author also wrote The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: driver [or chauffeur; accept similar answers of a personal/professional driver; accept Driving Miss Daisy]):
    In The Homecoming, Teddy's brother Sam has this profession. Hoke Coleburn performs this job for a woman named Daisy in an Alfred Uhry ["yer-ee"] play.

[B10] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author alluded to his love of cricket in a scene in which a pianist is interrogated with questions like "who watered the wicket in Melbourne?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Name this British playwright of The Dumb Waiter, who wrote of Goldberg and McCann's harassment of Stanley Webber in his play The Birthday Party.
  Part 2 (ans: menace [accept comedies of menace]):
    To describe the sinister undertones present in many of Pinter's early plays, the critic Irving Wardle coined a genre named for "comedies of" this concept.
  Part 3 (ans: blind man's buff [accept blind man's bluff]):
    During the title event in The Birthday Party, Goldberg and McCann force Stanley to participate in this game, which concludes with Stanley attacking Lulu after the lights go out.

[B11] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The stage directions for this play frequently call for its title character to "brood" and to assume a "listening posture." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Krapp's Last Tape):
    Name this one-act, one-man play in which the title character often repeats the word "spool." In an odd sequence at the beginning of this play, the title character thoughtfully peels and eats a banana.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    This author sat in an electric wheelchair during his acclaimed performance in Samuel Beckett's Krapp's Last Tape, two years before his death. This author lambasted the Iraq War in his Nobel lecture Art, Truth and Politics.
  Part 3 (ans: The Dumb Waiter):
    Beckett's Waiting for Godot is often cited as an influence on this Pinter play in which the hitmen Ben and Gus engage in small talk and send food through the title device while awaiting their next assignment.

[B12] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Ian eats a dead baby while waiting for Cate to return with a sandwich in Blasted, a play from this decade. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1990s):
    Name this decade, which saw the emergence of the vulgar and confrontational "in-yer-face theater" movement. Playwright Sarah Kane both rose to fame and died during this decade.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Among the admirers of Sarah Kane's play Blasted was this playwright, whose absurdist plays include The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: Mark Ravenhill):
    One of the biggest names in in-yer-face theater was this man, who wrote about the alienated youth of post-Thatcher England in the explicit play Shopping and Fucking.

[B13] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play led the critic Irving Wardle to introduce the term "comedy of menace." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Birthday Party):
    Name this play in which a deranged man attempts to rape Lulu during a blackout that follows a game of Blind Man's Bluff.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    The Birthday Party was written by this English dramatist of The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: Alan Ayckbourn):
    The term "comedy of menace" was taken from the title of a play by David Campton, who mentored this other prolific English playwright. This "master of farce" wrote the plays Private Fears in Public Places and Absurd Person Singular.

[B14] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The final obscene thing an unnamed soldier does to a character in this play is to suck out his eyeballs and eat them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blasted):
    Name this Sarah Kane play, where the misogynistic, racist Ian attempts to seduce Cate in an expensive hotel room in a war-torn part of Leeds.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Sarah Kane's Blasted was praised by this playwright, whose "comedies of menace" include The Birthday Party and The Dumbwaiter.
  Part 3 (ans: Look Back in Anger):
    Blasted is part of the "In-yer-face" movement, which focuses on using explicit sex and violence to shock audiences, like this other play also shocked audiences. In this John Osborne play, Jimmy reconciles with Alison by playing the "bear and squirrel game."

[B15] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each-answer the following about "in-yer-face theatre."
  Part 1 (ans: Titus Andronicus (by Shakespeare)):
    Sarah Kane's extremely in-yer-face play Blasted is often compared to this earlier play, in which Chiron and Demetrius are murdered, baked into a pie, and served to their mother Tamora.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Aleks Sierz, who coined the term "in-yer-face theatre," cited this playwright's "comedies of menace," like The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party, as predecessors to the style.
  Part 3 (ans: Jez Butterworth):
    This author's highly violent play Mojo is often considered "in-yer-face theatre." His more recent works include The Ferryman and Jerusalem, which centers on the drug-dealing Johnny "Rooster" Byron.

[B16] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In his lecture "Writing for the Theatre," this playwright identified two types of silence: one "where no word is spoken" and another where "a torrent of language is being employed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Identify this British playwright whose middle period output included a number of "memory plays," such as A Kind of Alaska and Betrayal. Earlier, he wrote about Stanley Webber's abduction in The Birthday Party.
  Part 2 (ans: "comedy of menace" [or "comedies of menace"]):
    Irving Wardle borrowed this three-word phrase from the subtitle of David Campton's play The Lunatic View to describe Harold Pinter's dark, disjointed plays.
  Part 3 (ans: "in-yer-face theatre"):
    In his 2001 book on British Drama Today, Aleks Sierz coined this term to describe an emergent trend of blunt and obscene drama, exemplified by Sarah Kane's Blasted and Mark Ravenhill's Shopping and Fucking.

[B17] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After being cast as this play's protagonist, Alan Ayckbourn asked "Where does he come from? Where is he going to?", prompting the author to reply "Mind your own fucking business." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Birthday Party):
    Name this play set in a seaside boarding house that centers on the pianist Stanley Webber, who is taken away by Goldberg and McCann at the play's end.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    The Birthday Party was written by this British playwright, who depicted the bickering hitmen Ben and Gus in The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: comedy of menace [or comedies of menace]):
    Irving Wardle's review of The Birthday Party in Encore magazine led him to coin this three-word phrase to characterize the contrasting humor and danger central to Pinter's plays.

[B18] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Current Events
     Leadin: Answer the following about resource-rich bodies of water, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Niger River):
    This river's delta was the site of a historic British protectorate known as the Oil Rivers. A group representing the Ijaw people issued the Kaiama Declaration to protest environmental and property abuses around this river.
  Part 2 (ans: Trinidad):
    Pitch Lake, a feature located on this island's town of La Brea, is the largest natural deposit of Asphalt in the world. It also features the Nariva and Caroni wetlands.
  Part 3 (ans: Carpinteria [or Gulf of Carpentaria]):
    A Santa Barbara town with this name is home to notable non-La Brea tarpits. This name is phonetically shared by a body of water bounded by the Torres Strait, Arafura Sea, and Cape York Peninsula.

[B19] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the author Mark Asprey prints translations of his own books into multiple languages to make them look more popular than they actually are. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London Fields):
    Name this novel that opens with Samson Young narrating the story of a murder that hasn't happened yet. The victim of that murder is named Nicola Six.
  Part 2 (ans: reverse chronology [or telling the story backwards in time]):
    The author of London Fields, Martin Amis, used this gimmick in his novel about the Auschwitz doctor Odilo Unverdorben. The play Betrayal traces Emma and Jerry's affair using this gimmick.
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Betrayal was written by this British playwright of "comedies of menace" like The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party.

[B20] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright made memory "a weapon" in plays such as Landscape and No Man's Land. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Name this English playwright who wrote about Stanley Webber, a piano player in a seaside town who is visited by two strangers during a certain event.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dumb Waiter):
    In this Pinter play two hitmen are waiting in a basement to receive an assignment while communicating with others through the "speaking tube" of the title conveyance.
  Part 3 (ans: F. Scott Fitzgerald):
    Pinter penned the screenplay adaptation of this author's unfinished novel, The Last Tycoon. This author's character Nicole Diver in Tender is the Night is thought to be based on his wife Zelda.

[B21] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This lecture examines how "language is actually employed to keep thought at bay" in the use of phrases like the "American people." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harold Pinter's Nobel Lecture):
    Identify this speech published as Art, Truth, and Politics that was videotaped for a 2005 ceremony that its speaker was not able to attend. This lecture's excoriation of American foreign policy is emblematic of its British author's late political activism.
  Part 2 (ans: Iraq War [or War in Iraq; or Occupation of Iraq; or Operation Iraqi Freedom; accept answers such as Second Gulf War or Gulf War II; do not accept or prompt on "Gulf War"]):
    Pinter's lecture repeats the phrase "we were assured that was true; it was not true" in discussing the justifications for British involvement in this conflict. David Hare, who introduced Pinter's lecture on British TV, wrote a play about this 2003 conflict titled Stuff Happens.
  Part 3 (ans: Blasted):
    Thomas Ostermeier used Fallujah, Iraq, as the setting for his 2005 staging of this 1995 Sarah Kane play set in a hotel room in a war zone. This play's infamous scenes include one in which an unnamed soldier sucks Ian's eyeballs out and eats them.

[B22] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This object is stepped on during a game of blind man's bluff. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a toy drum):
    What object does Stanley receive as a gift from Lulu in a 1957 play? He closes the first act by using this object, almost menacingly in the direction of Meg, and McCann puts it on the floor to be stepped on during the game.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    The toy drum is a crucial prop in the play The Birthday Party by this English author of The Homecoming and The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: Gus [or his partner; or fellow killer; accept obvious equivalents]):
    At the end of The Dumb Waiter, Ben, the hit man, is surprised to discover that his target is apparently this man. Name or description is acceptable.

[B23] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Harold Hobson wrote a belated positive review of this play, "The Screw Turns Again", which improved its reputation after a disastrous eight-performance run during its London debut. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Birthday Party):
    Name this play in which Goldberg and McCann show up at a boarding house run by Meg and Petey Boles, apparently in search of piano player Stanley Webber, disrupting the title event.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    The Birthday Party was written by this British playwright who also wrote The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: comedy of menace [or comedies of menace]):
    Irving Wardle wrote a 1958 review for Encore magazine that coined what three-word phrase for plays such as The Birthday Party, The Room, and The Dumb Waiter? This phrase, which suggests banal terror, was later retracted by Wardle as not applying to an author's plays after all.

[B24] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A Sofia Coppola movie is based on this author's biography of Marie Antoinette. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Antonia (Margaret Caroline) Fraser [or: Antonia Margaret Caroline Pakenham; accept, but do not otherwise reveal: Antonia Pinter]):
    Name this author, who won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for her biography of Mary, Queen of Scots. She also wrote a series of novels about the detective Jemima Shore.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Antonia Fraser was married to this author of pause-filled plays like Betrayal and The Birthday Party.
  Part 3 (ans: comedy of menace):
    Pinter's plays are often referred to as this kind of comedy, a play on the term "comedy of manners." Irving Wardle coined this term, which he took from the subtitle of David Campton's play The Lunatic View.

[B25] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Mr. Organ Morgan is obsessed with his music to the annoyance of his wife, and Captain Cat dreams of his dead crew members. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Under Milk Wood):
    Name this radio play by Dylan Thomas, set in the fictional Welsh village of Llareggub.
  Part 2 (ans: Harold Pinter):
    Edward and Flora are visited by a Matchseller in this English dramatist's radio play A Slight Ache. The hit-men Ben and Gus receive mysterious food orders from the title object in his The Dumb Waiter.
  Part 3 (ans: Joe Orton [or Joseph Kingsley Orton]):
    This English writer of dark comedies first came to prominence with the radio play The Ruffian on the Stair. Dr. Rance's inspection of Dr. Prentice's psychiatric hospital goes horribly astray in his play What the Butler Saw.
