=== STOCK CLUES: Saint-Georges ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 DECAF (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Joseph Bologne, Chevalier de Saint-Georges [accept either underlined part]
  - The opening melody of this composer's symphony number two, which they also used as an operatic overture, consists of three unison quarter notes and a half note, repeated on each note of an ascending D major chord.
  - Other than the attributed composer, this composer is the likeliest candidate for having composed the basis for or even part of the ballet Les petits riens. [PWR]
  - This composer is the subject of the second episode of a BBC 4 radio program hosted by (+) Chi-chi Nwanoku. [PWR]
  - This successor of Francois-Joseph Gossec as conductor of the Concert des Amateurs had that ensemble sponsored by a Freemason lodge and rebranded as Le Concert Olympique, for which he commissioned Haydn's (*) Paris symphonies.
  - This composer's only surviving opera is L'Amant anonyme.
  - Aside from music, this composer was known as "the god of arms" and notoriously bested fencer Alexandre Picard.
  - For 10 points, name this knighted French swordsman and early Black composer. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer included an onstage interracial kiss in the finale of an 1804 comic opera set in colonial Virginia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Salieri (The unnamed opera is Die Neger.)):
    The title character leads a slave revolt in what composer's opera Tarare? In Amadeus, this composer claims to have murdered Mozart.
  Part 2 (ans: Chevalier de Saint-Georges [or Joseph Bologne; or Joseph Boulogne] (The biopic is Chevalier.)):
    A 2023 biopic invents a feud between Christoph Gluck and this composer of L'amant Anonyme ("la-MAHNT ah-no-NEEM") over control of the Paris Opera. This composer conducted the premiere of Haydn's "Paris Symphonies" with the Olympic Lodge.
  Part 3 (ans: Otello [or Otello, Ossia l'Africana in Venezia]):
    In this opera by Gioachino Rossini, the lead soprano sings "Assisa a pie d'un salice" ("ahs-SEE-zah ah pyeh doon sah-LEE-cheh") before being stabbed by a Black man who thought he wasn't allowed to marry her. Stendhal criticized this opera for diverging wildly from its source material.

[B2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Out of jealousy, Mozart allegedly based the villain Monostatos in The Magic Flute on this composer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Bologne, Chevalier de Saint-Georges [accept either underlined part]):
    Name this French composer of eight symphony-concertantes and the opera L'Amant anonyme ("la-MONT a-noh-NEEM"). This Guadeloupe-born composer's status as a free man of colour did not stop him from conducting Le Concert Olympique ("luh con-SEHR oh-lam-PEEK").
  Part 2 (ans: Paris [accept Paris symphonies; accept Opera de Paris]):
    Under the baton of Saint-Georges ("san-ZHORZH"), Le Concert Olympique premiered a set of six symphonies by Haydn named for this French city. Saint-Georges was himself the director of an opera company based in this city before he was removed due to racist objections.
  Part 3 (ans: Marie Antoinette [or Marie Antoinette Josephe Jeanne] (The symphony is subtitled "La Reine", or "The Queen".)):
    The fourth of Haydn's Paris symphonies is named due to it being a favourite of this student of Christoph Gluck, who was also close friends with Saint-Georges, and the female dedicatee of Luigi Cherubini's ("ke-roo-BEE-nee") Requiem in C Minor.

[B3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer, the illegitimate son of a slave and a colonial French planter, was sent away from Guadeloupe as a child to study in France. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Boulogne [or the Chevalier de Saint-Georges]):
    Name this 18th-century French composer and violinist. A 2020 New York Times article criticized the common practice of referring to this man as the "Black Mozart."
  Part 2 (ans: The Magic Flute [or Die Zauberflote]):
    A dubious theory holds that Boulogne was the inspiration for the villainous Monostatos in this Mozart opera. Other theorists claim that Empress Maria Theresa is the basis for this opera's "Queen of the Night."
  Part 3 (ans: Paris Symphonies [prompt on symphonies by Haydn]):
    As conductor of the Concert Olympique, Saint-Georges commissioned this group of six orchestral pieces. This set includes pieces nicknamed "The Queen," "The Bear," and "The Hen."

[B4] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about opera composers who crossed paths with Marie Antoinette, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck [or Christoph Willibald Ritter von Gluck]):
    This music teacher of Marie Antoinette composed Iphigenie en Aulide. Earlier, this composer wrote another classically themed opera, Orfeo ed Euridice ("ew-ree-DEE-cheh").
  Part 2 (ans: Chevalier de Saint-Georges [or Joseph Bologne]):
    After Marie Antoinette failed to advocate for his placement as director of the Paris Opera, this biracial Guadeloupean composer played in her private quarters instead. This composer's only surviving opera is L'Amant anonyme.
  Part 3 (ans: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart):
    Apocryphally, this composer promised to marry Marie Antoinette after he performed for her at age six. This man composed Cosi fan tutte and The Magic Flute.

[B5] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The "Romanze" second movement from one of these pieces was a royal favorite, leading it to be nicknamed "The Queen." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paris Symphonies):
    Name this group of pieces, one of which features the oboe in a "clucking" repeated-note theme. The bagpipe-like opening of the last movement of the first of these pieces has caused it to be nicknamed "The Bear."
  Part 2 (ans: (Franz) Joseph Haydn):
    The Paris Symphonies were written in the 1780s by this "Father of the Symphony."
  Part 3 (ans: Chevalier de Saint-Georges [or Joseph Bologne]):
    This virtuoso violinist born in Guadeloupe commissioned the Paris Symphonies. This man, sometimes called the "Black Mozart," was a major composer of Symphonies Concertantes to show off his own skill.

[B6] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The fourth of these pieces is nicknamed "The Queen" for Marie Antoinette. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paris Symphonies):
    Name this set of six symphonies by Joseph Haydn , numbered 82 through 87 in his overall catalog.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph de Boulogne, Chevalier de Saint-Georges [accept either underlined part]):
    The Paris Symphonies were premiered by the Concert de la Loge Olympique orchestra under the leadership of this violinist and conductor originally from Guadeloupe. The son of a slave, he became one of the first classical music stars of African descent.
  Part 3 (ans: Symphony No. 44 [or Trauer Symphony or Funeral Symphony or Mourning Symphony]):
    This earlier Haydn symphony is his only one in E minor, and one of the few to put the menuet in the second movement rather than the third.
