=== STOCK CLUES: Casablanca ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 28 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sam [accept "play it again, Sam"; prompt on the pianist from Casablanca until "pianist" is read] (The podcast is You Must Remember This, which is a line from the lyrics of "As Time Goes By.")
  - In a 2017 article about this character, physicist Robert E. [PWR]
  - Wallace confirmed that his mother-in-law's husband Jean Plummer, not Elliot Carpenter, recorded music used in the film to dub this character's performance. [PWR]
  - This male character's most famous dialogue inspired the title of a podcast about Hollywood history hosted by Karina Longworth.
  - Until intervention by story editor Irene Diamond and screenwriters the Epstein twins, producer Hal B. [PWR]
  - Wallis considered changing this character's sex to cast Hazel Scott or Lena (*) Horne. [PWR]
  - This character's employer remarks, "I don't buy or sell human beings" when he is asked about the price to get this character to work for the Blue Parrot.
  - This character pretends not to remember the melody of a song whose lyrics assert that "a sigh is just a sigh." Dooley Wilson's performance as this character popularized the jazz song "As Time Goes By." For 10 points, what Black pianist in Casablanca is never actually told to "play it again"? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Casablanca
  - An Umberto Eco essay argues that this film's casting of Conrad Veidt  and Peter Lorre  in supporting roles makes it an "anthology" of character archetypes.
  - A declaration in this film by a policeman played by Claude Rains gave its title to the movie The Usual Suspects.
  - In this film's climax, a man tells his former lover that their problems "don't amount to a hill of beans" before convincing her to board a plane to Lisbon with Victor Laszlo.
  - The pianist Sam is told to play "As Time Goes By" in this film, in which a crowd sings "La Marsellaise" to drown out a battalion of Nazis.
  - For 10 points, what 1942 film stars Humphrey Bogart as Rick Blaine, who owns a bar in its title Moroccan city? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 This Set is Garbo (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rick's Cafe Americain [or Rick's American Cafe or Cafe Americain; accept Everybody Comes to Rick's; accept descriptions of the bar from Casablanca; prompt on Casablanca; prompt on the bar from Casablanca and synonyms]
  - Description acceptable.
  - In an infamous foreign dub, a Norwegian nuclear physicist shows up at this place wanted by Interpol for breaking out of prison. [PWR]
  - This place titles a play deemed "sophisticated hokum" that the schoolteacher Murray Burnett wrote with Joan Alison.
  - A man in this place is told "boss, you've done a beautiful thing" for telling a Bulgarian couple to try number 22.
  - When asked, (*) "You despise me don't you?"a man in this place replies, "If I gave you any thought, I probably would." In this place, an official says that he is shocked to see gambling taking place before being handed his winnings.
  - A chorus of "Die Wacht am Rhein" in this place is countered by the band playing "La Marseillaise." For 10 points, identify this "gin joint" where Sam plays "As Time Goes By." [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: minarets [or minars; accept Charminar, Qutb Minar, or Qutub Minar; accept Malwiya or Al-Minarat al-Malwiyyah until "Malwiya" is read; prompt on mosques; prompt on towers, pillars, or bell towers] (Pinseau designed the Hassan II Mosque in Casablanca. The ruler is Ibn Tulun, the namesake of the Mosque of Ibn Tulun in Cairo. The Great Mosque of Samarra contains a spiral-shaped minaret.)
  - The lawns around one of these structures contain a former part of it whose failed renovation earned it the nickname "Smith's Folly." Michel Pinseau included a laser in his design for one of these structures adorned with seafoam-colored tiles. [PWR]
  - According to legend, a monarch covered up his laziness by claiming that his tinkering with paper was a design for one of these structures. [PWR]
  - One of these structures inspired Philip Johnson's 1976 design for an all-white building in Dallas's Thanks-Giving Square. [PWR]
  - One of these structures in (*) Seville was converted into the Giralda .
  - Indian instances of these structures include four that comprise an iconic monument of Hyderabad and a brick one in Delhi's Qutb complex.
  - Ziggurats may have inspired the Malwiya, a spiral-shaped sort of this structure in Samarra.
  - For 10 points, name these towers from which muezzins call for prayer. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 Delta Burke (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Casablanca
  - A song written for this film has the lyrics "Don't you frown / Just knuckle down / And knock on wood." The protagonist of this film helps a Bulgarian couple win money at roulette and responds "I'm a drunkard" to the question "What is your nationality?" Before and after the arrest of Ugarte, the protagonist of this film says "I stick my neck out for nobody." Louis Renault instructs some officers in this film to "Round up the usual suspects" after Major Strasser is shot.
  - In this film, Dooley Wilson plays the pianist Sam, who sings "As Time Goes By" at Rick's cafe.
  - For 10 points, name this 1942 film starring Humphrey Bogart that is set in the titular Moroccan city. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Only "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" tops Dooley Wilson's performance of this song on AFI's "100 Years...100 Songs" list. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "As Time Goes By" (from Casablanca)):
    Name this jazz song that opens, "You must remember this, a kiss is still a kiss." Ilsa Lund asks Sam to play this song in a scene set at Rick's Cafe.
  Part 2 (ans: Woody Allen [or Heywood Allen; or Allan Stewart Konigsberg]):
    "As Time Goes By" plays during Allan and Linda's first kiss in Play It Again, Sam, an early collaboration between Diane Keaton and this actor. The pair reunited in Annie Hall and Manhattan, both directed by this actor.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Bogdanovich (The films are What's Up, Doc? and The Last Picture Show.)):
    In a film by this director, Barbra Streisand's character seduces a musicologist to a duet of "As Time Goes By." At the end of another of this director's films, a housewife played by Cloris Leachman berates and then consoles her teenage ex-lover.

[B2] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Paul Rotha said that this film was "like a drop of wine in an ocean of salt water". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  The  Cabinet of Dr. Caligari [or  Das  Cabinet des Dr. Caligari ]):
    Name this expressionist film directed by Robert Wiene about a man in an eternal sleep state, who does the bidding of an evil hypnotist.
  Part 2 (ans: Hans (Walter Conrad)  Veidt):
    The somnambulist in The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari was played by this actor. This actor also played the protagonist Gwynplaine in The Man Who Laughs and the Grand Vizier Jafiar in The Thief of Bagdad .
  Part 3 (ans:  Casablanca):
    In this 1942 film, Veidt plays the Nazi Major Strasser, who is drowned out by "La Marseillaise." Ingrid Bergman and Humphrey Bogart star in this film, which is set in a Moroccan city.

[B3] 2019 Prison Bowl (2019) | Diff: 5 | History
     Leadin: The US made a secret deal with Admiral Darlan, a Prime Minister of this country, but he was assassinated soon after. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vichy France [prompt on France or word forms]):
    Name this country, whose Prime Minister Laval succeeded Darlan. Its fleet was destroyed at Mers-el-Kebir.
  Part 2 (ans: Operation Torch):
    Darlan was given control over all North African French forces in exchange for helping the US during this operation. This operation represented the first landing of American troops in the European War.
  Part 3 (ans: Casablanca):
    One of the locations of American landings was this largest Moroccan city. It was later the namesake of a 1942 film starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman.

[B4] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A group named for this city advocated for a closely-integrated socialist pan-African federation and feuded with the capitalist-oriented Monrovia Group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Casablanca [or Beit Abyad]):
    Name this largest city in Morocco. It titles a 1944 Michael Curtiz film in which Humphrey Bogart's character helps Ingrid Bergman's character flee to Portugal.
  Part 2 (ans: Kwame Nkrumah):
    The driving force behind the Casablanca group was this leader of the Convention People's Party, who was later overthrown in a coup by Joseph Ankrah. This leader secured independence for a colony that was then known as the Gold Coast.
  Part 3 (ans: Organization of African Unity [or OAU]):
    The Monrovia Group eventually triumphed, establishing this international body and predecessor of the African Union.

[B5] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After witnessing the murder of a Gestapo officer in this film, Captain Renault, played by Claude Rains, tells his subordinates to "round up the usual suspects." For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Casablanca):
    Name this film in which an American bar owner helps a Czech Resistance leader escape from Vichy-occupied Morocco. Other ubiquitous lines from this movie include "Louis, I think this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship" and "play it, Sam. Play 'As Time Goes By'."
  Part 2 (ans: Ingrid Bergman):
    This Swedish actress played Bogart's former love interest, Ilsa, in Casablanca. She also starred in Spellbound, Gaslight and Joan of Arc before she left Hollywood for over a decade to work with future husband Roberto Rossellini.
  Part 3 (ans: Notorious):
    Rains and Bergman also worked together in this 1946 Alfred Hitchcock film, where Rains played an escaped Nazi in Argentina who Bergman's character must seduce for information. The film features a two and a half minute long kiss between Bergman and Cary Grant.

[B6] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After Major Strasser is killed in this film, Renault orders the police to "round up the usual suspects." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Casablanca):
    Name this 1942 film set in the title African city. Humphrey Bogart plays Rick Blaine in this movie, who is persuaded to fight against the Nazis and assist his ex-lover, Ilsa Lund.
  Part 2 (ans: "As Time Goes By"):
    In a famous scene in Casablanca, Rick tells the piano player Sam to play this song. The lyrics to this song note that "you must remember this - a kiss is still a kiss, a sigh is just a sigh...."
  Part 3 (ans: letters of transit [do not accept any other answers]):
    The basic plot of Casablanca involves the existence of these imaginary documents, which Ilsa and her current husband, Victor, require in order to escape German controlled Africa. Give the three-word phrase used in the film.

[B7] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: A Youtube user pitch-shifted the first single off this album to make Pharell Williams sound like Michael Jackson while maintaining runtime, and Chilly Gonzales composed the track "Within" to change the key of this album. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Random Access Memories):
    Name this 2013 album which features the single "Get Lucky" and a lengthy narration by Giorgio Moroder.
  Part 2 (ans: Daft Punk):
    Random Access Memories is the latest album by this duo that wears masks in all performances and used the chorus of one of their songs in a collaborative single with Kanye West.
  Part 3 (ans: Julian Casablancas):
    This singer provides guest vocals for the track "Instant Crush". He also collaborated with The Lonely Island on a track where he cries out that "a boombox is not a toy".

[B8] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This city's medina quarter contains a bustling central square called the Jemaa el-Fnaa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marrakech):
    Name this city which lies south of the Tensift River, the dominant city of central Morocco and the first of Morocco's four Imperial cities.
  Part 2 (ans: Casablanca):
    This largest Moroccan city was the site of a 1943 conference between Churchill, Roosevelt, and De Gaulle.
  Part 3 (ans: Tangiers):
    This Moroccan city, which lies just across the Strait of Gibraltar from Spain, was a favorite of spies in the early 20th century because of its status as an international zone.
