=== STOCK CLUES: Domenico Ghirlandaio ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Domenico Ghirlandaio
  - The landscape of a painting by this artist is interpolated over Sandro Botticelli's face in a contemporary painting by Iranian artist Aydin Aghdashloo . [PWR]
  - Adolfo Venturi challenged the usual attribution of a painting by this artist since it lacked the "sweet" character of this artist, instead crediting it to his brother Davide . [PWR]
  - In a painting by this artist, one of the title characters, who is possibly modeled on the artist Francesco Sassetti, wears a chaperon (*) hood and a fur-lined robe. [PWR]
  - In that painting by this artist, the other title character is depicted with long hair flowing out of his doublet hat, gazing at a man who is likely Giovanni Tornabuoni , who commissioned this artist to decorate a chapel.
  - This artist employed the three-quarters perspective to gracefully depict a man with a nasal deformity in Portrait of an Old Man and His Grandson.
  - For 10 points, name this artist who taught Michelangelo. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Renaissance painters were unlikely to do their subjects any favors when it came to their noses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Urbino [accept Venus of Urbino]):
    The hooked nose of this city's Duke Federico da Montefeltro prominently appears in a Piero della Francesca profile of him facing his wife. This city names a Titian painting of a reclining Venus.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Arcimboldo):
    Pears, pickles, and even a cooked chicken make up some of the noses of this Renaissance painter's portraits using unusual objects like food and books.
  Part 3 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio [or Domenico di Tommaso Curradi di Doffo Bigordi]):
    This artist painted an old man with rhinophyma holding a young boy. This teacher of Michelangelo inserted himself as a shepherd observing the Adoration in his frescoes for the Sassetti Chapel.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a painting in this chapel, a woman in the foreground pours from a jug as a reclining woman behind her stares at a baby. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tornabuoni Chapel [or Cappella Tornabuoni]):
    Identify this chapel, where that painting, The Nativity of Mary, sits next to a scene of Joachim's ("JO-uh-kim's") expulsion from the temple. In this chapel, 8 scenes from the life of Mary face 8 scenes of the life of John the Baptist.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio ("gheer-lahn-DYE-oh") [or Domenico di Tommaso Curradi di Doffo Bigordi]):
    The frescoes in the Tornabuoni Chapel in the Santa Maria Novella were painted by the workshop of this Florentine master of the late 15th century, who depicted a man with a bulbous nose in An Old Man and his Grandson.
  Part 3 (ans: Michelangelo [or Michelangelo Buonarroti; or Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni]):
    Some work on the frescoes in the Tornabuoni Chapel may have been done by this then-thirteen-year-old student of Ghirlandaio. Decades later, this man painted the fresco The Last Judgment.

[B3] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A letter in Jan van Eyck's small panel portrait of this figure implies that the painting actually depicts Niccolo Albergati. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: St. Jerome [accept the Vision of St. Jerome or St. Jerome in his Study]):
    Name this figure, who wears only a red loincloth in a painting titled for his "Vision." The same Mannerist artist depicted this figure standing near marble columns in the bottom right of another painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio [or Domenico di Tommaso Curradi di Doffo Bigordi]):
    This artist's St. Jerome in his Study for the church of Ognissanti shares many similarities with van Eyck's painting. This artist's Adoration of the Shepherds depicts a line of visitors walking along a narrow cliffside trail to meet Jesus, who rests in front of a grey sarcophagus.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer [or Albrecht Durer or Albrecht Duerer]):
    This German engraver depicted St. Jerome in his Study in one of his "Master Prints," which also include his Knight, Death, and the Devil.

[B4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the incompetent art historian Ascanio Condivi, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Michelangelo Buonarroti [or Michelangelo Buonarroti]):
    Condivi started his career in this artist's workshop, but he was so bad at painting he turned to writing instead. Condivi's biography of this artist describes him painting the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.
  Part 2 (ans: Pope Julius II [prompt on Julius]):
    Condivi uncharitably depicts this pope's impatience over the Sistine Chapel ceiling. Michelangelo designed this pope's tomb, which includes sculptures of several slaves, as well as a horned Moses.
  Part 3 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    Condivi claims that Michelangelo was entirely self-taught, even though his training in this artist's workshop is well-documented. This artist painted a fresco cycle of the life of the Virgin in Santa Maria Novella.

[B5] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these Italian artists who depicted the Medici, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Michelangelo diLodovico Buonarroti Simoni [accept either underlined answer]):
    This artist painted the Medici Madonna for the Medici Chapel, which he designed. His other paintings include Separation Of Light from Darkness and The Last Judgment, both of which can be found in the Sistine Chapel.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    This artist's The Confirmation of Franciscan Rule shows Lorenzo emerging from a staircase with his entourage. This teacher of Michelangelo showed an old man with rhinophyma in his painting An Old Man with his Grandson.
  Part 3 (ans: Benozzo Gozzoli):
    A portrait of John VIII Paleologus as a wise man can be found in this artist's Adoration of the Magi in the Palazzo Medici. The Medicis and their tutor Angelo Poliziano appear in his The Tower of Babel.

[B6] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's The Vocation of the Apostles is found in the Sistine Chapel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    Identify this artist whose Adoration of the Shepherds, which shows Jesus laid in front of a gray sarcophagus, is the altarpiece in the Sassetti Chapel. This artist decorated that chapel with frescoes about the life of St. Francis.
  Part 2 (ans: Saint Jerome in His Study [accept anything with the two underlined words]):
    Ghirlandaio also painted a version of this scene, which was more famously depicted by another artist with a sleeping lion in the foreground and a skull on the left.
  Part 3 (ans: Sandro Botticelli):
    Ghirlandaio's Saint Jerome in His Study was commissioned alongside this artist's Saint Augustine in his Study. He's better known for The Birth of Venus.

[B7] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist and student of Michelangelo was so incompetent that he couldn't even adequately copy his master's Epifania. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ascanio Condivi):
    Name this writer who wrote a life of Michelangelo to counter some false claims by Vasari. Unfortunately, he also introduced several errors to glorify Michelangelo, such as declaring him completely self-taught.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    Condivi propaganda aside, Michelangelo was taught by this artist, who painted the Last Supper in the Ognissanti of Florence and helped paint the Stories of Moses and Stories of Jesus on the walls of the Sistine Chapel.
  Part 3 (ans: David):
    Vasari was hardly critical of Michelangelo, calling this statue "a miracle" and "perfection that nature is scarcely able to create in the flesh." It shows a man with a sling over his shoulder preparing to battle Goliath.

[B8] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Renaissance portraitists.
  Part 1 (ans: Rafael Sanzio [Accept either.]):
    This artist of the high Renaissance painted portraits of Baldassare Castiglione, as well as one of Donna Velata. He also painted The School of Athens.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca):
    This other artist from Urbino painted a double portrait of Battista Sforza and Federigo da Montefeltro. The Battle of Nineveh is shown in the final painting of his Legend of the True Cross cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    This artist's other works include The Funeral of St. Francis as well as a version of The Last Supper with two archways. His painting Old Man with a Child tenderly depicts a man with a bulging nose.

[B9] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about some early Italian Renaissance painters, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fra Giovanni Angelico [or Giovanni da Fiesole]):
    Born Guido di Pietro, this painter combined Gothic and Renaissance styles in his altarpiece Coronation of the Virgin for the Santa Maria Novella in Florence. He also painted several different versions of The Annunciation that feature angels with polychromatic wings.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    Michelangelo was once apprenticed under this painter, who painted a fresco of St. Jerome in His Study for the Church of Ognissanti. In addition to creating the Adoration of the Shepherds, this artist also painted a fresco in the Tornabuoni Chapel that depicts the life of the Virgin Mary.
  Part 3 (ans: FRA LIPPO LIPPI [OR FILIPPO LIPPI]):
    This Florentine painter depicted St. Augustine and San Frediano kneeling before the Virgin and the Son in the Barbadori Altarpiece. This painter of the Prato frescoes and is famously told in a Robert Browning poem to "paint the soul" and not the flesh.

[B10] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's version of the Adoration of the Magi contains a sarcophagus inscribed with a prophecy by the augur Fulvius that "the urn that covers me will bring forth a god." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    Name this artist, whose Birth of the Virgin is set in a 15th century Florentine bedroom decorated with a frieze of jocular putti. He also did a portrait of his patron, Giovanna Tornabuoni.
  Part 2 (ans: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni [or Michelangelo Buonarroti, accept either]):
    Ghirlandaio was the teacher of this Renaissance artist, who painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Bartholomew):
    In the Last Judgment, Michelangelo painted himself as this saint holding his flayed skin.
