=== STOCK CLUES: Duccio ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Maesta of Duccio [accept Maesta with Twenty Angels and Nineteen Saints]
  - According to one account, this artwork was commissioned to replace a Madonna of the Large Eyes icon that had helped its city win a violent battle. [PWR]
  - A gigantic Jesus stands on a mountain and rebukes a black, winged devil in a section of this artwork housed at the Frick. [PWR]
  - A section of this artwork features four local saints named Sabinus, Ansanus, Crescentius, and Victor kneeling. [PWR]
  - When this artwork was dismantled in 1771, its backside lost some of its twenty-six depictions of the Passion of Christ set under a golden sky. [PWR]
  - This artwork's main front panel shows (*) thirty-nine angels and saints surrounding Mary, who holds the baby Jesus on her lap.
  - Finished in 1311, this artwork serves as the main altarpiece of the Siena Cathedral.
  - For 10 points, Mary sits enthroned with Jesus in majesty in what altarpiece by Duccio? [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Maesta of Duccio
  - This artwork was removed from its original location to make way for a set of sculptures by Francesco di Giorgio, leading Giorgio Vasari unable to ascertain its location.
  - Its largest section unusually features the child martyr Crescentius in a red robe kneeling to the Virgin.
  - A pure black-bodied Satan tempts Jesus Christ, who towers over several massive cities in a fragment of this masterpiece that is now housed at the Frick.
  - A portion of this artwork in which Isaiah and Ezekiel flank a Nativity scene featuring sixteen angels can be found in the U.S.
  - National Gallery.
  - Scenes from the childhood of Christ comprise the front predella of this artwork, while the story of the Passion of Christ is told on numerous panels of its back.
  - This painting and the Rucellai Madonna are the only two works of their artist that can be dated.
  - For 10 points, name this high altarpiece of the Siena Cathedral, a 1308 masterpiece of Duccio. [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Duccio di Buoninsegna
  - In one work by this artist, Christ reaches to brush back the veil of the Virgin; that work's attribution is in doubt because of the anachronistic placement of figures behind the surface with a parapet.
  - Another of his works is an altarpiece once housed in the Church of Santa Maria Novella called the Rucellai Madonna.
  - The installation of this artist's largest work, an enthroned Madonna surrounded by saints, is celebrated with a holiday and parade in Siena.
  - For 10 points, name this late-medieval artist of the Stoclet Madonna and the Maesta Altarpiece. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Duccio di Buoninsegna
  - This artist painted a man in a teal robe standing on a boat and holding a fishnet in his version of The Calling of Peter and Andrew. [PWR]
  - One of his works gets its title from the three small monks praying at the feet of a black robed Mary; that work is titled Madonna of the Franciscans. [PWR]
  - Christ points his finger his finger at a winged Satan, who is rendered in all black, and stands on a rock that towers over two walled cities at the bottom in this artist's Temptation on the Mount, located on the back of his best known altarpiece. [PWR]
  - This painter of the Stoclet Madonna depicted (*) Saint Ansanus and Saint Sabinus as two haloed saints in his best known work.
  - He was the teacher of Simone Martini, and probably the Lorenzetti brothers as well.
  - For a time, his canvas, the Rucellai Madonna, was incorrectly attributed to his predecessor Cimabue.
  - FTP, name this artist best known for his Maesta altarpiece in the Siena Cathedral.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting is displayed in the Uffizi beside Giotto's Ognissanti Madonna and is partially named for a family of wool merchants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rucellai Madonna):
    Name this panel painting from Siena that depicts three angels on each side of a Virgin Mary and child.
  Part 2 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    The Rucellai ("ROO-chell-eye") Madonna is by this Sienese painter, who painted forty-three scenes from the life of Jesus around the enthroned Virgin Mary in his Maesta.
  Part 3 (ans: altarpiece [accept Isenheim Altarpiece]):
    Both Duccio's Rucellai Madonna and his Maesta were commissioned as this kind of artwork. These religious works include one named for Isenheim by Matthias Grunewald.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: An Indigenous leader named Juan Santos, who thought he was the reincarnation of this person, led a 1742-to-1752 rebellion in Peru with assistance from the Ashaninka tribe to overthrow Spanish power. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Atahualpa [or Atabalica; or Atabalipa]):
    Name this successor of Huascar and final ruler of the Incan Empire, who was executed by Francisco Pizarro.
  Part 2 (ans: rubber [or latex; or caoutchouc]):
    Though the Ashaninka were riled up in the Juan Santos rebellion, they were later enslaved by Carlos Fitzcarrald to produce this good. In Brazil, an artificial city where this resource was produced was the site of an "Island of Innocence."
  Part 3 (ans: reductions [or reducciones; or Jesuit reductions; prompt on Jesuit missions]):
    The Juan Santos rebellion included the destruction of these places in Eneno and Matranza. In defiance of the earlier policies of Antonio Ruiz de Montoya, Sepe Tiaraju led one side of the "War of the Seven" of these places.

[B3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A polyptych in Pisa of Saint Catherine of Alexandria was painted by an artist from this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Siena [accept Sienese School]):
    Name this city, whose school of artists included one who used egg tempera and gold leaf to depict an enthroned Madonna with Child surrounded by six angels.
  Part 2 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    That Rucellai Madonna was painted by this foremost of the Sienese School artists. This artist created an altarpiece of the Madonna enthroned surrounded by twenty angels and nineteen saints, the Maesta.
  Part 3 (ans: Gothic style):
    Simone Martini's paintings influenced the "International" branch of this style in late 14th century France. In architecture, this French style evolved out of the earlier Romanesque style and used flying buttresses.

[B4] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Geography
     Leadin: Six of these places named for the region of Chiquitos ("chee-KEE-tohss") comprise a UNESCO heritage site in the Gran Chaco region. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: reductions [or reducciones]):
    Name these settlements which include La Santisima Trinidad de Parana, one of the least-visited UNESCO sites in the world. Jesuits built these settlements to convert South American natives, such as the Guarani ("gwa-rah-NEE") people.
  Part 2 (ans: Paraguay [or Republica del Paraguay or Teta Paraguai]):
    Many Guarani settled in reductions in this present-day South American country, where most of the population speaks some of the Guarani language. The Gran Chaco comprises this South American country's western half.
  Part 3 (ans: Cordoba, Argentina (It is named for the city in Spain.)):
    Outside of Paraguay, many reductions for Guarani were built in this city, whose Jesuit Block and Estancias are also a UNESCO World Heritage site. The Primero River flows through this most populous city in the Pampas.

[B5] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: These settlements were heralded by Voltaire as "the triumph of humanity" after Antonio Ruiz de Montoya popularized them in Europe in The Spiritual Conquest of Paraguay. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jesuit reductions [or reducciones or reducao or reducoes]):
    Give this name for South American Jesuit missions that protected over one hundred thousand native Guarani from Portuguese bandeirantes, but forced them to give up most tribal traditions.
  Part 2 (ans: printing press):
    Jesuit reducciones suppressed Guarani traditions while introducing them to this technology used by Montoya to publish a Guarani-Spanish dictionary. Johannes Gutenberg developed the moveable type of this technology in Europe.
  Part 3 (ans: peninsulares AND criollos):
    Two

[B6] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Laudesi ("lao-DEZ-ee") confraternity commissioned a Madonna by this artist in which six angels hold up the Virgin's chair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Duccio ("DOO-cho") di Buoninsegna):
    Name this Italian artist. Drawing on Vasari, Frederic Leighton ("LIGHT-un") misattributed a "celebrated Madonna" by this artist to Cimabue ("chee-MAH-boo-ay") in one of his paintings.
  Part 2 (ans: Florence [or Firenze]):
    Duccio's Rucellai Madonna is currently held in this city's Uffizi ("oo-FEET-zee"), which were once the offices of its Medici family.
  Part 3 (ans: Maesta [prompt on majesty or majestas]):
    Duccio mainly worked in Siena, where he painted his version of this scene for the cathedral. Simone Martini painted the Virgin underneath a blue and red canopy surrounded by saints in his version of this scene, which has an Italian name.

[B7] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This city's Palazzo Pubblico is home to such frescoes as The Allegory of Good and Bad Government. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Siena):
    Name this city, the birthplace of Ambrogio Lorenzetti and Simone Martini. This city's cathedral contains Donatello's The Feast of Herod.
  Part 2 (ans: Lippo Memmi):
    Simone Martini was the brother-in-law of this artist with whom he collaborated on an Annunciation scene depicting the Saints Margaret and Ansanus. A Madonna by this artist was the first to receive a canonical coronation from the Pope.
  Part 3 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    Perhaps the most well-known version of a Maesta is by this Sienese artist whose Rucellai Madonna was once incorrectly attributed to his teacher Cimabue by Giorgio Vasari.

[B8] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about depictions of your favorite saint in art: John the Baptist for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio):
    This Baroque artist created at least eight paintings of John the Baptist also known as John in the Wilderness. In one painting, John is depicted with a ram, while in another he drinks water out of a fountain.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder):
    This artist painted John in his The Preaching of St. John the Baptist. He is probably more famous for the paintings Hunters In the Snow and The Triumph of Death.
  Part 3 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    John the Baptist appears to the right of the Virgin and Child in both this Sienese artist's Madonna and Child with Saints polyptych as well as his Maesta.

[B9] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the centre of one fresco by this artist, ten people are dancing in a circle, something which was against their city's laws at the time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ambrogio Lorenzetti):
    Name this artist of the frescoes of Good and Bad Government in the Sala di Nove, two walls of which depict cities in prosperity and decay, while on the third the reclining figure of Peace sits on a bench with other personified virtues.
  Part 2 (ans: Siena):
    Those frescoes are in this Tuscan city's Palazzo Pubblico, the focus of its shell-shaped Piazza del Campo where the Palio horse-race is held. Its black-and-white-striped cathedral was meant to be the transept of a much larger building.
  Part 3 (ans: Duccio's Maesta):
    Siena Cathedral was home to this huge altarpiece, with the enthroned Virgin Mary holding Jesus on its front panels. Its back panels depict forty-three scenes from the life of Mary and the life of Jesus, but it was sawn up in the eighteenth century and many of the pieces are now dispersed around the world.

[B10] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In The Toast series "Two Monks" "inventing" [this place's] art, Monk #2 tells Monk #1 that people relaxing "stand in a straight line and look straight ahead" and "nobody can bend at the waist ever." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Byzantine empire):
    Name this empire, which produced works of art such as the Hagia Sophia and many gold-leaf-backed icons depicting flat, stylized religious figures.
  Part 2 (ans: Harbaville Triptych):
    This Byzantine Romanos-group ivory triptych presents a Deesis scene of Christ on a throne with a book, while the back shows a Garden of Eden with two cypresses leaning towards a cross.
  Part 3 (ans: Duccio):
    This Sienese artist was influenced by Byzantine styles to create his Maesta and his Rucellai Madonna, both of which show a Virgin and child surrounded by angels and saints.

[B11] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted the title figures in a fishing boat being summoned by Christ in The Calling of the Apostles Peter and Matthew. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna (DOO-chee-oh)):
    Name this contemporary of Giotto (JOH-toh) and possible student of Cimabue (chee-MAH-boo-eh). He was a pre-Renaissance Sienese artist who painted the Rucellai (ROO-chell-"eye") Madonna and a Maesta.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Frederic Leighton):
    This much later artist's Cimabue's Celebrated Madonna actually depicts Duccio's Rucellai Madonna. This 19th-century English artist painted a sleeping long-haired girl in an orange dress in his Flaming June.
  Part 3 (ans: Giorgio Vasari):
    The Rucellai Madonna was inaccurately attributed to Cimabue by this Italian painter and early art historian, whose Lives of the Artists is the starting point of almost all Renaissance art scholarship.

[B12] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Dozens of people huddle under Mary's robes while angels stand behind her in this artist's Virgin of Mercy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lippo Memmi):
    Name this painter, who worked with his brother-in-law, Simone Martini, on an Annunciation including St. Margaret and St. Anansus.
  Part 2 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    Unless you believe Vasari, Martini was probably the pupil of this leading Sienese artist. His Maesta altarpiece was tragically sawn in half in 1711 and was originally painted for the Siena Cathedral.
  Part 3 (ans: Palazzo Pubblico [or Public Palace]):
    Martini's saint-strewn Maesta takes up the entire north wall of the Great Council Hall of this Sienese town hall that also contains Lorenzetti's Allegory of Good and Bad Government.

[B13] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's major work served as the altarpiece at the Siena cathedral. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    Name this painter of the Madonna Rucellai and the Maesta.
  Part 2 (ans: Ambrogio Lorenzetti):
    This younger brother of Pietro was another Sienese painter, who painted a four-part Legend of St. Nicholas as well as the Allegory of Good and Bad Government.
  Part 3 (ans: the Byzantine Empire [or Constantinople or so on]):
    Duccio, and Siennese art in general, exhibits influence from this place, which loved showing the Deeses panel and produced art such as a building designed by Isidore of Miletus and Anthemius of Tralles.

[B14] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Giorgio Vasari misattributed this painter's Rucellai Madonna to Cimabue, who may have been this artist's teacher. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Duccio di Buoninsegna):
    Name this artist of a Maesta with a center panel depicting Mary and Jesus with twenty angels and nineteen saints.
  Part 2 (ans: Siena):
    Duccio was an artist from this city in Tuscany where the artists had a more mystical tendency than in Florence.
  Part 3 (ans: The Massacre of the Innocents at Bethlehem):
    The masterpiece of Matteo di Giovanni, another Sienese painter, was a depiction of this scene with a king in gold on the right who is pointing to the title biblical event. Breughel painted this scene in a snowy village.
