=== STOCK CLUES: Lucian Freud ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 22 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucian Freud [or Lucian Michael Freud]
  - A painting by this artist depicts a woman in a blue-and-green sweater clutching a pink-and-yellow peace rose, with another one in her lap.
  - This artist also depicted the same woman with one breast visible while a sleeping dog lies on her yellow robe.
  - This painter showed a side view of his first wife staring intently against a background of greenish window shutters in one of his eight portraits of her, before leaving her for a woman whom he painted in Hotel Bedroom.
  - In another portrait by this man, his first wife stares into the distance while seemingly strangling a tabby cat.
  - This painter, who married Lady Caroline Blackwood and Kitty Garman, used the model Sue Tilley for a painting of an obese nude woman napping on a floral couch.
  - For 10 points, name this British portraitist of Benefits Supervisor Sleeping. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucian Freud
  - An early work by this artist depicts a man next to a hotel window looking at a blonde woman who is pretending to be asleep.
  - This artist extended the left-hand side of a painting of three nude figures to incorporate the head of a woman who was originally portrayed from the upper arms down.
  - This artist supposedly spent 4,000 hours painting their mother, creating works including a portrait of her wearing a butterfly jersey.
  - A work by this artist of After Cezanne depicts their lover Kitty Garman in a yellow dress with one breast exposed, and they also painted Sue Tilly in one work.
  - For 10 points, name this British artist of Benefits Supervisor Sleeping. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucian Freud
  - This artist depicted his second wife, whom he eloped with, resting her head on her right hand in Girl in Bed. [PWR]
  - An early portrait by this artist of his first wife depicts her profile with rusting green shutters in the background is titled simply Portrait of Kitty. [PWR]
  - A later portrait by this artist depicts his wife with one breast exposed, wrapped in a yellow robe, and a bull-terrier resting on her legs. [PWR]
  - This artist of Girl with a White Dog painted a nude portrait of (*) Kate Moss in 2002 shortly before his death. [PWR]
  - Sue Tilly, better known as "Big Sue," frequently modelled for this artist, including for one in which she lies nude on a muted sofa.
  - For 10 points, name this British artist of Benefit Supervisor Sleeping. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lucian Freud
  - This artist was inspired by the painting Pierrot Content to depict his son as a commedia-dell-arte character hemmed in by his other family members in a painting done "after Watteau." In the painting that won this artist fame, bespectacled photographer Harry Diamond shrinks from a potted plant in an enclosed space. [PWR]
  - This artist painted his first wife holding her hand over her left breast as her right breast pops out of a loose yellow bathrobe in his Girl with a White Dog. [PWR]
  - This artist's Large Interior, W11 and Interior at Paddington are some of his many paintings of grimy-looking (*) flats.
  - He painted the naked, obese Sue Tilley resting on a broken-down couch in Benefits Supervisor Sleeping, and generally made a habit of painting ugly naked people.
  - For 10 points, name this British painter who died in 2011, the grandson of an Austrian psychoanalyst. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After being denied an official commission, this artist created a portrait of George W. Bush which consisted of cuttings from pornographic magazines. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jonathan Yeo):
    Name this portrait artist who showed a butterfly symbolizing accession in another painting. The only part of that painting by this artist not in red is the head of its subject, King Charles III.
  Part 2 (ans: flowers [or water lilies]):
    Yeo created a portrait of Tony Blair in which he wears one of these things. Claude Monet painted examples of these things in a garden pond at Giverny.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucian Freud):
    Another of Yeo's works titled Reflection depicts this artist through a series of pornographic collage cutouts. This artist showed the naked Sue Tilley on a couch in his portrait Benefits Supervisor Sleeping.

[B2] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting titled for this figure was exhibited alongside a poem that calls the artist's wife Gala "my [this figure]." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Narcissus [accept Metamorphosis of Narcissus or Metamorphose de Narcisse] (By Salvador Dali.)):
    Name this figure who titles a painting that depicts a backward statue standing on top of a chessboard. In that painting, this figure's hand springs out of the ground to hold a cracked egg.
  Part 2 (ans: Yayoi Kusama [or Kusama Yayoi]):
    This Japanese artist handed out metal balls at the Venice Biennale ("bee-en-NAH-lay") for her performance piece Narcissus Garden. She is best known for her Instagram-friendly Infinity Mirror Rooms and her frequent use of polka dots.
  Part 3 (ans: Freud [accept Lucian Freud or Sigmund Freud]):
    An artist with this surname created a drawing of Narcissus clasping his face in his hands. That artist with this surname was the grandson of the author of The Interpretation of Dreams.

[B3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A portrait by this artist shows a stern-looking man in a plaid suit in front of a portion of Jean-Antoine Watteau's painting The Jealous Ones. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucian Freud [or Lucian Michael Freud]):
    Name this artist who painted a portrait of Heinrich von Thyssen Bornemisza. Paul Allen's art collection featured a painting by this artist which depicts four women sitting on a brown bed in this artist's Large Interior, W11 (After Watteau).
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Cezanne):
    Freud's L-shaped painting showing a nude man and a woman lying on a white cloth is titled After [this artist]. Members of Les Nabis inspect one of this artist's paintings in a work by Maurice Denis.
  Part 3 (ans: sleeping [accept dreaming since the second sentence refers to The Nightmare.]):
    A Freud painting showing Sue Tilley performing this action was once the most-expensive painting by a living artist to be sold. An incubus sits on top of a woman performing this action in a painting by Henry Fuseli.

[B4] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Herbert Read called this artist "the Ingres of existentialism" after he executed a portrait of a woman in a yellow bathrobe with one of her breasts exposed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucian Freud):
    Name this British portraitist, who depicted Sue Tilley reclining on a floral-designed couch in his painting Benefits Supervisor Sleeping.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Cezanne):
    Freud grafted the top left of a painting named for this artist onto the main artwork, which depicts three nudes on top of a white cloth on the floor. This artist painted still-lifes of fruit and the Mont Sainte-Victoire series.
  Part 3 (ans: artist's studio [or The Painter's Room] (The second painting is by Gustave Courbet.)):
    A red and yellow giraffe head peeks through a window in a Freud painting set in one of these locations. Another painting set in one of these locations uses items like a guitar, skull, and feathered hat to symbolize the death of academic art.

[B5] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This bonus is scandalous. For 10 points each, answer some questions about nudity in modern art:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucian Freud):
    A nude man rests his head on his hand and looks away from two naked women in this British artist's After Cezanne. He also depicted Sue Tilly naked on a couch in his portrait Benefits Supervisor Sleeping.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    This artist caused controversy at the 1912 Salon des Independants for his Nude Descending a Staircase.
  Part 3 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    A nude woman descends a staircase in Ema, a "photo-painting" that showcases this German artist's hallmark "blur" effect. In addition to photo-paintings, this German artist made a series of color chart paintings.

[B6] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Roger Avermaete ("AH-ver-mate") noted how this figure is often "very nearly pushed into the background" by the "wealth of appurtenances" in a book on an artist who often painted her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marie de' Medici [or Maria de' Medici; or Marie de Medicis; prompt on Marie or de Medici]):
    Name this queen depicted in a 24-painting series made for the Luxembourg Palace, which includes The Council of the Gods and The Disembarkation at Marseilles.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens [accept Rubenesque, Rubensesque, or Rubensian]):
    Avermaete alleges everyone in that landing scene "has eyes only for the voluptuous Naiads" painted by this Flemish artist known for his shapely nudes.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucian Freud [accept Lucian Michael Freud]):
    This 1997 Rubens Prize winner painted the woman Leigh Bowery in his Naked Man, Back View. His painting Benefits Supervisor Sleeping has drawn comparisons to Rubens' nudes.

[B7] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Eugene Delacroix was inspired to change the background of his painting Massacre at Chios [KEY-oss] after seeing the flickering light and broken colour in some of this artist's paintings exhibited at the Paris Salon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Constable):
    Name this artist. Peter Kennard responded to a Ministry of Defence leaflet in a photomontage which inserts nuclear warheads into this artist's most famous painting, which shows smoke rising out of Willy Lott's cottage.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucian Freud):
    A 2002 exhibition of Constable's works at Paris's Grand Palais [gron pal-AY] was named for 'The Choice of' this later artist, who also produced an etching of a study of an elm tree by Constable. He painted three nudes and an overturned chair in a work based on another artist's Afternoon in Naples.
  Part 3 (ans: clouds):
    As well as trees, Constable is known for his obsessive studies of these things. Constable learnt from the developing science of meteorology to accurately depict the light coming through these things at different times of day, which he reproduced in oil and watercolour studies he called 'skyings'.

[B8] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these artists of the 20th and 21st century known for their paintings of grotesque nudes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucian Freud [or Lucian Michael Freud]):
    This British artist and grandson of an Austrian psychoanalyst painted pale nudes using thick impasto in portraits like Girl with a White Dog and one showing "Big Sue" Tilley lying on a couch, Benefits Supervisor Sleeping.
  Part 2 (ans: Egon Schiele ("SHEE-luh")):
    Gustav Klimt mentored this Austrian Expressionist, who painted several contorted nude self-portraits, many of which feature his muse Wally Neuzil ("NOY-tsil").
  Part 3 (ans: Jenny Saville):
    This artist overlayed mirrored cursive writing over a distorted nude portrait of herself in Propped, one of the many portraits of this contemporary British artists that has drawn comparisons to the work of Lucian Freud.

[B9] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During the Second World War Kenneth Clark arranged to buy many paintings and drawings of civilians sheltering in Underground stations by this artist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Moore):
    The War Artists' Advisory Committee procured many works by what artist who was consequently assigned to paint coal miners in Yorkshire?
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Bacon):
    An exhibition at the Ashmolean showed works by Moore alongside works this artist of Three Studies for Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucian Freud):
    This artist painted a postcard sized portrait of Francis Bacon that was stolen when it was exhibited in Berlin in 1988. This artist of Benefits Supervisor Sleeping painted many portraits of his first wife, Kitty, who was the daughter of Jacob Epstein and Kathleen Garman.

[B10] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter based many of his works on photographs commissioned from John Deakin that he subsequently folded or spattered with paint. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francis Bacon):
    Name this artist whose Black Triptych was painted after the suicide of his lover George Dyer.
  Part 2 (ans: Crucifixion [accept answers indicating Christ on the Cross or being crucified; accept Three Studies for Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion or White Crucifixion]):
    Bacon painted writhing anthropomorphic creatures in a work showing "three studies for figures at the base of" this scene. Marc Chagall painted a "white" version of this biblical scene.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucian Freud [or Lucian Michael Freud; accept Three Studies of Lucian Freud]):
    Bacon painted a triptych that in 2013 became the most expensive painting ever sold at auction and that shows "three studies" of this artist sitting in a wooden chair in a cage in front of a bed's headboard.

[B11] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The artist of this painting claims that he was attempting to make a bird alighting on the field, but he created something different; leading him to call this painting a "continuous accident." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Painting, 1946):
    Name this canvas, which shows a man with a bloody mustache standing on an Oriental carpet. The head of that man in this canvas is bisected by an umbrella, and behind him is a giant beef carcass.
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Bacon):
    Painting, 1946 was made by this Irish artist, who made a series of paintings after Diego Velazquez's Portrait of Pope Innocent X.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucian Freud):
    Francis Bacon also made a triptych featuring three studies of this fellow countryman and artist, who depicted the obese Sue Tilley on a sofa in Benefits Supervisor Sleeping.
