=== STOCK CLUES: Waugh ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 48 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 32 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh; prompt on He Evelyn] (Waugh's wife Evelyn Gardner was often called "She Evelyn.")
  - When a benign tumor was removed from Randolph Churchill, this man quipped that they removed "the one part of Randolph which was not malignant." During World War II, this man spread a rumor that Marshal Tito was both a woman and a lesbian. [PWR]
  - This man's brother, the author of the scandalous The Loom of Youth, was the only family member not to call him "Wuffles." This author's ambiguous first (*) name led a reviewer at the Times Literary Supplement to assume his biography of Dante Gabriel Rossetti was written by a woman; he'd later marry a woman with the same first name.
  - This man covered the Second Italo-Abyssinian War for the Daily Mail, which inspired his novel about a foreign correspondent named William Boot, titled Scoop.
  - This Catholic convert's affair with Alastair Graham at Oxford inspired one of his best-known characters, Sebastian Flyte.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Brideshead Revisited. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]
  - This author quoted John Keats in his Tablet piece "Half in Love with Easeful Death." This author's voyage to Ceylon was interrupted by hallucinations that he recounted in the semi-autobiographical "mad book" The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold.
  - The epigraph of a novel by this author quotes a passage from "The Burial of the Dead" section of T.S.
  - Eliot's The Waste Land, which also provides the novel's title.
  - A character created by this author is expelled from the fictional Scone College after the Bollinger Club dares him to run across the courtyard without pants.
  - Another novel by this author features Aloysius the teddy bear, who is carried by Sebastian Flyte, an Oxford classmate of the painter Charles Ryder.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Decline and Fall, A Handful of Dust, and Brideshead Revisited. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Evelyn Waugh
  - One of this author's characters buys a bag of rocks from a woman living at Pension Dressler and gives her his collapsible canoe to escape Jacksonburg.
  - A woman in a novel by this author reacts with relief when she learns that her son has been killed in a riding accident instead of her lover with the same first name. [PWR]
  - In a novel based on this author's time as a war correspondent in (*) Abyssinia, the Daily Beast sends the wrong man named Boot to cover a civil war in Ishmaelia.
  - In another of this man's novels, Tony Last leaves Hetton Abbey after divorcing Brenda due to her affair with John Beaver, but is captured in South America and forced to indefinitely read Dickens aloud.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the satirical novels Scoop,A Handful of Dust, and Brideshead Revisited. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Evelyn Waugh
  - A character created by this author works at a euthanasia center, and becomes an arsonist when Clara's beard is replaced with a rubber jaw. [PWR]
  - This author created the character of Miles Plastic in the dystopian novel Love Among The Ruins. [PWR]
  - Guy Crouchback is the subject of a war trilogy by this author that includes the novel Unconditional Surrender. [PWR]
  - The African nation of Azania is ruined when the Oxford-educated Seth becomes its emperor in this author's (*) Black Mischief. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author seeks to marry Nina Blount, and works as the gossip columnist Mr.
  - Chatterbox, while in another novel, William Boot reports on a war in Ishmaelia.
  - Tony Last is forced to read Dickens aloud forever in this author's A Handful of Dust.
  - For 10 points, identify this author of Vile Bodies and Scoop, who created the alcoholic Sebastian Flyte in Brideshead Revisited. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Auberon Alexander Waugh [prompt on "A. Waugh," because Alec Waugh is also a person]
  - In his autobiography, this man recalled how, when his mother managed to procure three bananas for the family during wartime, his father sat down in front of him and ate all the bananas himself. [PWR]
  - He was fired from The Spectator after changing George Gale's byline to "Lunchtime O'Booze," a reference to an in-joke from the satirical magazine Private Eye, for which he wrote a regular diary from 1970 to 1985. [PWR]
  - He abandoned fiction for journalism after writing five novels, mostly named after flowers, including (*) Consider the Lilies and Who Are the Violets Now? [PWR]
  - As editor of the Literary Review, he co-founded the Bad Sex in Fiction Award.
  - For 10 points, name this eldest son of Evelyn Waugh, who was nicknamed "Bron." [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]
  - In a novel by this author, the main character buys a bag of mineral specimens from a woman at the Pension Dressler who eventually leaves with her German husband in a collapsible canoe. [PWR]
  - He wrote about a man who plays the card game "animal snap" with his son, who is killed in a fox hunting accident at Hetton Abbey. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author eventually becomes a porter at a Tunisian monastery and has a (*) teddy bear named Aloysius. [PWR]
  - A novel of his follows a man who writes the "Lush Places" column for The Daily Beast and is set in Ishmaelia.
  - One of this author's protagonists visits the Amazonian Jungle, where he is forced to read Dickens novels to Mr.
  - Todd.
  - A novel by this author features the alcoholic Sebastian Flyte, who befriends the painter Charles Ryder.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Scoop, Handful of Dust, and Brideshead Revisited. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh; accept the hell out of He-Evelyn]
  - In a novel by this author, just at the point when John Wesley is about to be saved from Native Americans by a cowgirl, a movie theater loses electricity. [PWR]
  - A woman surrounds herself with a coterie of angel wing-wearing girls who are given names such as Temperance and Chastity, in that novel by him. [PWR]
  - In a moving scene from a novel by this author, a man who had abandoned his faith to live with his mistress Cara in Venice makes the sign of the cross on his deathbed to return the Catholic fold. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another novel by this author gets duped into buying gold ore by the German prospector's wife Katchen, and convinces his uncle to impersonate him at a banquet held by Lord (*) Copper, so that he can retire to a quiet life at Boot Magna . [PWR]
  - A character from this author's best-known novel breaks a tiny bone in his foot while playing croquet and, well into his adulthood, carries around the teddy bear Aloysius.
  - In that novel by him, Lord Marchmain's son Sebastian Flyte first meets Charles Ryder at Oxford.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Vile Bodies, Scoop, and Brideshead Revisited. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Evelyn Waugh
  - In one of this author's works, the advice columnist Slump, in the persona of "the Guru Brahmin," tells a reader to "jump off a building"; that novel is The Loved One.
  - In another of his works, a man trying to get a divorce is held captive to read Dickens to Tony in the jungles of Brazil.
  - In another of his novels, Julia marries Canadian Rex Mottram rather than the man commissioned to paint for the Marchmains, Charles Ryder, who had become friends with Sebastian Flyte.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Decline and Fall and Brideshead Revisited. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Nevil Shute's novel On the Beach, John Osborne regrets his refusal to share a drink with Don Harrison after watching him die in one of these events. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: automobile race [or sports car race; or motor race; prompt on race]):
    Name this type of event. In the novel Vile Bodies, the alcoholic Agatha Runcible is put in a nursing home and dies due to her involvement in one of these events.
  Part 2 (ans: Brideshead Revisited):
    This other novel, which begins during a series of rowing races called Eights Week, details the protagonist's relationship with the Marchmain family, one of whom is an eccentric young man who joins a Tunisian monastery.
  Part 3 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Vile Bodies and Brideshead Revisited are two novels by this British author.

[B2] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's romance with Alistair Graham while at Oxford inspired the creation of the character Sebastian Flyte. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Arthur) Evelyn St. John Waugh):
    Name this English author of Brideshead Revisited.
  Part 2 (ans: A Little Learning [accept "a little learning is a dangerous thing"]):
    Evelyn Waugh's first autobiography is titled for this poetic three-word phrase. This three-word phrase is likened to "[tasting] not the Pierian Spring" in a poem by Alexander Pope, who warns against it.
  Part 3 (ans: Scoop):
    The protagonist of this Evelyn Waugh novel is said to have been based on future Conservative Lord William Deedes ("deeds"). Near the end of this novel, the Prime Minister awards a knighthood to a novelist against the wishes of Mr. Salter.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by Eugene Burdick and William Lederer titled in reference to this older novel follows the engineer Homer Atkins and has come to name a type of obnoxious and ignorant foreign visitor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Quiet American (The Burdick and Lederer novel is The Ugly American.)):
    Name this novel in which the narrator is left by his mistress Phuong for a man he suspects is working for the CIA, the idealist Alden Pyle.
  Part 2 (ans: Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene]):
    This novelist set The Quiet American in Vietnam. This British author's other novels set abroad include Our Man in Havana and The Power and The Glory.
  Part 3 (ans: journalist [or reporter or member of the press or a foreign correspondent; accept newspaper writer; prompt on writer] (Waugh's novel is Scoop.)):
    The narrator of The Quiet American, Thomas Fowler, holds this profession. William Boot is a member of this profession who travels to the fictional East African country of Ishmaelia in a novel by Evelyn Waugh.

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Two years after his only novel, The Rock Pool, flopped, this author explored his own inability to write a great work of literature in his autobiographical book Enemies of Promise. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cyril Connolly):
    Name this English man of letters who co-founded the literary magazine Horizon with Peter Watson in 1940.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Connolly is satirized as the character of Everard Spruce, the editor of Survival, in this author's Sword of Honour trilogy. Charles Ryder befriends the wealthy Catholic Flyte family in his novel Brideshead Revisited.
  Part 3 (ans: Nancy Mitford [prompt on Mitford]):
    A satirical portrait of Cyril Connolly is the character of Ed Spain in this author's novel The Blessing. The Radlett family are recurring characters in her novels Love in a Cold Climate and The Pursuit of Love.

[B5] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After being quartered with his battalion in this location, the narrator of a novel states "I had been there before; I knew all about it." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Brideshead Manor [accept the Marchmain estate]):
    Name this location inhabited by a stamp-collecting earl. After her father returns from Venice to this location to die, Julia abandons her plans to divorce her husband.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh):
    Charles Ryder befriends the Marchmains in this author's novel Brideshead Revisited.
  Part 3 (ans: converting to Roman Catholicism [accept word forms; prompt on converting; prompt on converting to Christianity; reject "converting to Anglicanism," or any answers indicating conversion to a sect other than Roman Catholicism]):
    Though not stated explicitly, Ryder's use of "an ancient, newly learned form of words" when returning to Brideshead in the epilogue implies that he has since taken this action.

[B6] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem states that if one of these objects is taken away, then the "dreadful void" left behind would be "Eternity, Eternity." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: teddy bear [prompt on stuffed animal or toy; prompt on bear] (The poem is "Archibald" by Betjeman.)):
    Name these objects. The name Archibald Ormsby-Gore was given to one of these objects owned by the poet John Betjeman that inspired a fictional one of these objects owned by a young Lord in a novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Brideshead Revisited (by Evelyn Waugh)):
    That teddy bear, Aloysius, is the beloved possession of Sebastian Flyte during his time at Oxford in this 1945 novel.
  Part 3 (ans: A. A. Milne [or Alan Alexander Milne]):
    Perhaps the most beloved teddy bear in British literature is Winnie-the-Pooh, who appears in the works of this author and father of the real-life Christopher Robin.

[B7] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An author opened his non-fiction travelogue Remote People with an account of a coronation ceremony in this country, and he included a chapter on "Waiting for the War" in a book titled for himself in this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abyssinia [or Ethiopia]):
    Name this real country. The same author fictionalized it in a novel in which it holds a Birth Control Parade and in another novel in which the fictional capital of Jacksonburg is named after the corrupt American-born dynasty that rules it.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh ("waw") [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Those two novels, Black Mischief and Scoop, are by this English author, who wrote A Handful of Dust in between them.
  Part 3 (ans: Vile Bodies):
    Before fictionalizing Abyssinia as Azania in Black Mischief, Waugh wrote this novel, in which the writer Adam Fenwick-Symes interacts with party girl Agatha Runcible and other members of the Bright Young Things.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This woman's article "The English Aristocracy" was the impetus for a collection that features an "Essay in Sociological Linguistics" by Alan Ross. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nancy Mitford [prompt on Mitford]):
    Name this author who also wrote about Fanny's interactions with the Montdores in Love in a Cold Climate.
  Part 2 (ans: Noblesse Oblige [or Noblesse Oblige: An Enquiry Into the Identifiable Characteristics of the English Aristocracy]):
    Mitford edited this book, which contains an essay in linguistics by Alan Ross that originated the distinction between "U" and "Non-U" English. Peter Fleming wrote an essay for this collection under the pseudonym Strix.
  Part 3 (ans: Evelyn Waugh):
    Noblesse Oblige also includes a letter to Mitford written by this author. Mitford was generally considered one of the "bright young things" satirized by this author in his novel Vile Bodies, his follow up to Decline and Fall.

[B9] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about winners of the James Tait Black Memorial Prizes, the UK's oldest literary prizes, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Aldous Huxley):
    This author wrote the James Tait Black-winning novel After Many a Summer Dies the Swan, which features the millionaire Jo Stoyte. This author is better known for a novel set during AF 632, Brave New World.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh ("EEV-lin WAH") (That novel is Brideshead Revisited.)):
    The 1952 iteration of the prize was won by this author's World War II novel Men at Arms. This author is better known for a novel following Charles Ryder, who almost gains ownership of the title estate through his marriage to Julia Flyte.
  Part 3 (ans: Angela Carter (The collection is The Bloody Chamber.)):
    The winner of the 2012 Best of the James Tait Black was Nights at the Circus, a novel by this author. The Bluebeard legend inspired the title story of a collection by this author that retells fairy tales from a feminist perspective.

[B10] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Archibald Ormsby-Gore for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Sir John Betjeman):
    Archibald was a teddy bear belonging to this British poet laureate from 1972-1984, who invited "friendly bombs" to fall on the title town in his poem "Slough."
  Part 2 (ans: Lord Sebastian Flyte [prompt on Flyte]):
    Archibald inspired Aloysius, a teddy bear belonging to this literary character who retires late in the book he appears in to a monastery in Tunisia.
  Part 3 (ans: Evelyn Waugh):
    Sebastian Flyte appears in Brideshead Revisited, the most famous novel of this British author who also wrote A Handful of Dust.

[B11] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A line in Edward Fitzgerald's "translation" of the Rubaiyat that states "Before we too into [this substance] descend" may have actually been based on a line from Genesis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dust [accept "Before we too into dust descend" or "in a handful of dust"]):
    Name this substance. A line from The Wasteland begins "I will show you fear" and then states a phrase about this substance.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh):
    This author used a line from Eliot to title his novel A Handful of Dust. He also wrote Brideshead Revisited.
  Part 3 (ans: Maud [accept "Maud Muller]):
    Eliot cites his reference to a "handful of dust" as originating from a Tennyson poem named for a girl with this first name. Another poem titled after a woman with this first name includes the lines "for all sad words of tongue and pen/ the saddest are these: "it might have been""

[B12] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel by this author, Guy Crouchback is "saved" by the murderous Ludovic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Evelyn Waugh):
    Name this author who wrote about Crouchback in a trilogy that includes Unconditional Surrender.
  Part 2 (ans: Brideshead Revisited):
    In Unconditional Surrender, Ludovic becomes the best-selling author of The Death Wish, a "gaudy tale of romance and high drama" that is typically read as a satire of this other novel by Waugh about the Flyte family.
  Part 3 (ans: Nancy Mitford [prompt on Mitford; prompt on Nancy]):
    Waugh decided to give Crouchback a childless marriage, writing in a letter to this author: "No nippers for Guy." This member of the "Bright Young People" wrote Love in a Cold Climate, while her sister wrote The American Way of Death.

[B13] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This action is performed by the companion of Dr. Messinger after Messinger falls over a waterfall. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: reading Dickens [or equivalents such as reading aloud the novels of Charles Dickens]):
    Name this action repeatedly performed by a man in the house of Mr. Todd. Todd drugs a man who performs this action and sends his watch back to England so that he will have to perform this action into perpetuity.
  Part 2 (ans: A Handful of Dust):
    Tony Last is forced to read Dickens in a remote village in South America at the end of this novel, meaning that Tony's ancestral home of Hetton will be inherited by his cousins.
  Part 3 (ans: Evelyn Waugh (wah)):
    This author of Brideshead Revisited wrote A Handful of Dust.

[B14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Anthony Blanche shouts passages from The Waste Land out of a window in a novel by this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Evelyn Waugh):
    Name this author who created Sebastian Flyte in his novel Brideshead Revisited.
  Part 2 (ans: Scoop):
    William Boot is sent to Ishmaelia as a reporter as a result of mistaken identity in this Waugh novel. Boot's columns are noted for particularly purple prose such as the line "Feather-footed through the plashy fen passes the questing vole."
  Part 3 (ans: "Up to a point"):
    In Scoop, Boot's editor Mr Salter is too afraid to give the

[B15] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote of a gathering "on behalf / Of love according to the gospel / Of the radio-phonograph," in which "Jack likes Jill who worships George / Who has the hots for Jack." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wystan Hugh Auden):
    Name this poet of "The Love Feast," whose prose was collected in The Dyer's Hand, and who played a recording of Verdi's Falstaff rather than lecture on The Merry Wives of Windsor.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher William Bradshaw Isherwood):
    Auden wrote the plays The Dog Beneath the Skin, The Ascent of F6, and On the Frontier with this man, better known for the novel A Single Man and for The Berlin Stories, a pair of novellas that inspired the musical Cabaret.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh):
    Auden and Isherwood were mocked as "two despicable poets, Parsnip and Pimpernel" in Put Out More Flags, a novel by this author of A Handful of Dust.

[B16] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the novel The Loved One, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    The Loved One is a novel by this author of A Handful of Dust and Brideshead Revisited.
  Part 2 (ans: cemeteries [or cemetery; or graveyard; or pet cemetery; or funeral parlor; or mortician's parlor; or undertaker's parlor; accept other obvious equivalents]):
    In The Loved One, Mr. Joyboy works at one of these places, while Dennis Barlow goes to work at one of these places called the Happier Hunting Ground.
  Part 3 (ans: film [or motion pictures; or Hollywood]):
    Barlow's housemate, Sir Francis Hinsley, works in this industry in the United States. F. Scott Fitzgerald, who also dabbled in this industry, depicted it in his book The Last Tycoon.

[B17] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Lily Gates elopes to Liverpool with the factory worker Bert Jones, but is forced to return home. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Living):
    Name this novel about the lives of the owners and workers in a Birmingham iron foundry, written in sentences largely devoid of articles.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Living was written by the modernist author Henry Green, who was friends with this contemporary author of the early novels Decline and Fall and A Handful of Dust.
  Part 3 (ans: Vile Bodies):
    Waugh's most overtly modernist novel was this one, his second, a satire on the "Bright Young Things" about Adam Fenwick-Symes.

[B18] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character dies of overexertion during a naked jog with fellow members of a hippie commune. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kenneth Widmerpool [or Kenneth Widmerpool]):
    Name this comic character who becomes an MP shortly after marrying the nymphomaniac Pamela Flitton, in a series of novels in which he serves as the foil to the protagonist, Nicholas Jenkins.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Powell):
    Nicholas Jenkins and Kenneth Widmerpool are introduced as Oxford classmates in A Question of Upbringing, the first novel in the twelve-volume series A Dance to the Music of Time, written by this English author.
  Part 3 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Widmerpool transitions from a comic to a more ruthless character in the seventh through ninth novels, which depict World War II in similar terms to those in this author's Sword of Honour trilogy. The Oxford scenes in A Question of Upbringing bring to mind those in this author's Brideshead Revisited.

[B19] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A somber matchbook collector in this novel marries another matchbook collector's widow. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Brideshead Revisited, The Sacred & Profane Memories of Captain Charles Ryder):
    Name this novel in which a rather dull Canadian struggles through classes with a priest before he gets married. Another character in this work leaves Germany to join the French Foreign Legion, but later hangs himself in a concentration camp.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Brideshead Revisited is by this British Catholic, who wrote about the theology student Paul Pennyfeather in Decline and Fall.
  Part 3 (ans: the University of Oxford):
    After the Bollinger Club pranks him into running through it pantsless, Pennyfeather is kicked out of this school. Charles Ryder meets Sebastian Flyte at this school in Brideshead Revisited.

[B20] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author collaborated with David Bowie and others to perpetuate his biographical hoax Nat Tate, a book released on April Fool's Day about an artist who never existed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Boyd):
    Name this Ghana-born Scottish novelist, who fictionalized the African campaign of World War I in An Ice-Cream War. His other books include Brazzaville Beach and Solo.
  Part 2 (ans: Ian Fleming [or Ian Lancaster Fleming]):
    William Boyd's novel Solo is a continuation of the work of this author, whose stories include "Risico" and "Quantum of Solace." His first novel was 1953's Casino Royale.
  Part 3 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Boyd's novel Any Human Heart includes appearances from both Fleming and this author, who may have kissed the protagonist, Logan Mountstuart. This writer's descent into madness inspired his own novel The Ordeal of Gilbert Pinfold.

[B21] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the prologue, this captain remarks, "I had been there before; I knew all about it," after asking Hooper for the name of their current location. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Ryder [or Charles Ryder]):
    Name this character who reads history at Oxford, where he meets Sebastian Flyte. He has an ill-fated af-fair with Sebastian's sister Julia.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]):
    Charles Ryder and Sebastian Flyte appear in Brideshead Revisited, a novel by this author of A Handful of Dust and Decline and Fall.
  Part 3 (ans: Rex Mottram [or Rex Mottram]):
    Julia Flyte has an affair with Charles while still married to this politically ambitious Canadian man, who weds Julia to increase his social status.

[B22] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify a few of Oxford's numerous literary appearances, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Montmorency (that travelogue is Jerome K. Jerome's Three Men in a Boat)):
    In a humorous travelogue, the narrator embarks on a boating trip with George and Carl from Kingston to Oxford. They are accompanied by this devilish fox terrier who burns his lip after attacking a tea kettle.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Henry Maximilian "Max" Beerbohm):
    This author wrote a satire in which all of the undergraduates at Oxford University commit suicide out of love for the title woman, Zuleika Dobson.
  Part 3 (ans: (Arthur) Evelyn (St. John) Waugh):
    Many of this author's characters, such as Paul Pennyfeather and Charles Ryder, attended Oxford. Those characters appear in his novels Decline and Fall and Brideshead Revisited.

[B23] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At a luncheon with Lord Copper, Mrs. Stitch unknowingly praises the writing style of this novel's protagonist, which is exemplified by the quote, "Feather-footed through the plashy fen passes the questing vole." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Scoop ):
    Name this novel set primarily in Ishmaelia. Katchen leaves for Madagascar with her German sort-of husband at the end of this novel, in which the Daily Beast correspondent William Boot is mistaken for the author of Waste of Time.
  Part 2 (ans: (Arthur) Evelyn (St. John) Waugh):
    Scoop was written by this author, who covered the Second Italo-Abyssinian War as a correspondent for the Daily Mail. His other novels include the Sword of Honour trilogy, A Handful of Dust, and Brideshead Revisited.
  Part 3 (ans: Empire of Azania [accept Sakuyu]):
    Prunella is the victim of a sensationalized kidnapping from the colony Matodi in a Waugh story about an "incident" in this country. This country is also the setting of his novel Black Mischief.

[B24] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: He described the protagonist being raped by his father as a fve-year-old in his frst novel Never Mind. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward St. Aubyn):
    Name this contemporary British novelist, the son of a Cornish baron, who has shot to critical fame with his biting, fve-novel Patrick Melrose series about the aristocracy that includes Mother's Milk and At Last.
  Part 2 (ans: Evelyn Waugh):
    It seems to be a universal rule that all reviews of Edward St. Aubyn must compare him to this other British satirist who wrote A Handful of Dust and Scoop.
  Part 3 (ans: funeral [accept a mother's funeral]):
    At Last takes place on the day of this kind of event. A comic scene in Middlemarch describes one of these events that the wealthy Peter Featherstone organized for himself, and in The End of the Afair, Bendrix plans this event for Sarah Miles deliberately against her wishes.

[B25] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Current Events
     Leadin: WRITE MORE QUESTIONS, Particularly a - Tossup 00--20-09122 Round 9 Bonuses 1. Institutions in this country include the Hotel Liberty in the capital, Jacksonburg, where foreign visitors tend to stay, and the Pension Dressler, where Katchen learns that this country's president has been locked inside his palace. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ishmaelia):
    Name this fictional country, with two competing embassies in London, and where Mr. Baldwin's mineral interests eclipse both Soviet and German maneuvering.
  Part 2 (ans: Scoop):
    Ishmaelia appears in this novel, in which The Daily Beast mistakenly sends John Boot, the dilettante author of the nature column "Lush Places," on a foreign correspondent's assignment.
  Part 3 (ans: Waugh in Abyssinia):
    Scoop debuted two years after this less fictionalized memoir based on the same events, in which the author recounted his own assignment by the Daily Mail to report on Mussolini's invasion.
