=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Cavalleria rusticana ===
(Questions where 'Cavalleria rusticana' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 9 found, 41 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Michael Haneke ("HAH-nuh-kuh") (The films mentioned are, in order: Benny's Video, Happy End, Amour, Funny Games, and The Piano Teacher.)
  - In a film by this director, J.
  - S.
  - Bach's version of the Lutheran hymn "Liebster Jesu, wir sind hier" plays over a montage depicting a family's vacation in Egypt.
  - In a long shot by this director, green and pink lights flash on a man rolling all over a dance floor while drunkenly singing "Chandelier" by Sia.
  - A shot by this director appears to depict a woman playing Impromptu No. 3 in G-flat, until a cut to her husband turning off the speaker that's actually playing it.
  - A film by this director opens with a family guessing the composers of Cavalleria rusticana and (*) Atalanta in their car, after which the music is suddenly interrupted by the blaring sounds of John Zorn's band Naked City.
  - Silent credits on a black screen are intercut with close-ups on hands playing classical pieces in the opening of this director's 2001 adaptation of an Elfriede Jelinek  novel.
  - For 10 points, Schubert and Schumann are the favorite composers of Isabelle Huppert's  character in what director's film The Piano Teacher?

[TM2] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Pop Culture
     Answer: The Godfather Part III [accept The Godfather, Coda before read; do not accept or prompt on The Godfather or The Godfather Part II]
  - In this film, a man trying to open a locked storefront door is shot by a rival dressed as a mounted police officer.
  - Sound editor Walter Murch created a scene in this film known as the "Silent Scream." A bodyguard in this movie fatally stabs an enemy with his own glasses.
  - A re-edit of this film partly titled (*) "Coda" alters its ending, in which Mary is killed after a performance of Cavalleria Rusticana and Michael Corleone dies alone.
  - For 10 points, name this final film in a Francis Ford Coppola mobster trilogy.

[TM3] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Scorsese [or Martin "Marty" Charles Scorsese]
  - At the end of this director's breakthrough film, Cream's "Steppin' Out" plays on the radio before a car containing Amy Robinson's Teresa crashes into a fire hydrant.
  - Films such as Ousmane Sembene's  Black Girl have been restored by this director's World Cinema Project.
  - One of several of this director's films edited by Thelma Schoonmaker has opening credits that are accompanied by (*) Mascagni's "Cavalleria Rusticana: Intermezzo." The protagonist of that 1980 film looks into a mirror as he quotes Brando's "I coulda been a contender" monologue from Elia Kazan's On t
  - This man directed Robert De Niro playing the boxer Jake LaMotta.
  - For 10 points, name this American director of Mean Streets and Raging Bull.

[TM4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Italy
  - Near the end of an opera from this country, a character asks his mother for "one more kiss" before bidding "farewell." In that opera from this country, villagers sing an Easter hymn whose melody is later played by the orchestra while the villagers enter a church.
  - A tenor aria written by a composer from this country was the first record to sell over a million copies; in that aria from this country, a performer prepares for a play-within-a-play while singing "put on the costume." A frequently-excerpted (*) intermezzo from an opera from this country is often pe
  - Cavalleria rusticana and Pagliacci are operas from-for 10 points-what country home to Pietro Mascagni and Ruggero Leoncavallo?

[TM5] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: I Pagliacci [accept The Clowns before "clowns"]
  - At the beginning of an Act II aria from this opera, a nearly offstage singer tells a woman to "open your window to me [who is] close at hand, calling and sighing for you." Villagers in this opera sing an Act I "bell chorus" that precedes a "ballatella" inspired by the sight of screeching birds, "Str
  - For 10 points, name this Ruggiero Leoncavallo opera typically paired with Cavalleria Rusticana and titled for a group of clowns.

[TM6] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Answer: "Bohemian Rhapsody"
  - The final section of this work returns to the tempo and form of its introduction in E-flat major before a set of rapid modulations ends in C minor for its reflective, somber finale.
  - It transitions into its third section with the piano playing quiet staccato A major chords, and its second section may reference Turiddo's aria from Mascagni's opera Cavalleria Rusticana, (*) "Mamma, quel vino e generoso." The soloist in this song sings "Bismillah" in an appeal for God to protect hi

[TM7] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Martin Scorsese
  - This director made a film which begins with the protagonist saying the lines "And though I can fight, I'd much rather recite-that's entertainment." That movie by this man has opening credits featuring the title character jumping in slow motion as the Intermezzo from Cavalleria rusticana plays.
  - In another of this director's films, the protagonist takes Betsy to see a Swedish sex education film.
  - That character cuts his hair into a Mohawk while planning to kill a senator, a scene which John (*) Hinckley tried to emulate by shooting Ronald Reagan.
  - This director made a film about the disturbed loner Travis Bickle, who at one point says "You talkin' to me?" when looking in a mirror.
  - He also filmed the life story of boxer Jake La Motta, who was played by his frequent star, Robert De Niro.
  - For 10 points, name this director of such films as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull.

[TM8] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pagliacci [or I Pagliacci; or Players; or Clowns]
  - One character in this work sings a ballatella about the freedom of the birds in the scene following the "Bell Chorus." In another scene, a character shouts "Name of God!
  - Those same words" after hearing a woman say "I will always be yours!" for the second time.
  - After discovering his wife's infidelity, one character tells himself to "laugh at the grief that poisons your heart" and perform the aria's title action "because people have paid money and want to be amused." That aria, "Vesti la giubba," is sung by Canio, who stabs Nedda while she is playing the ro
  - For 10 points, name this Leoncavallo opera frequently performed alongside Cavalleria Rusticana.

[TM9] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: I Pagliacci [accept "Clowns" before the last word of the tossup]
  - A recording by Enrico Caruso of one aria from this opera was the first record in history to sell a million copies.
  - The Intermezzo of this opera echoes the baritone solo that opened it.
  - The lead soprano in this opera sings an aria in admiration of birds in the sky, "Stridono lassu".
  - One character is angered by another saying "I am yours always" as Colombina to a character playing Arlecchino in a play within this opera.
  - At the beginning of this opera, the protagonist warns Tonio not to pursue his wife Nedda.
  - This opera's protagonist, Canio, sings the aria "Vesti la Giubba" as he puts on his costume at the end of Act I.
  - For 10 points, name this Leoncavallo opera typically paired with Cavalleria Rusticana that is about a clown.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these two characters growls, "La pagherai! Brigante!" in anger after the other rebuffs him from helping a woman dismount a cart. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Canio OR Tonio [prompt on Pagliaccio or Taddeo; reject "clown"]):
    Name either of these two characters who may sing the closing line "la commedia e finita!" after the stabbing of Nedda. These two characters appear in an opera often performed as a double bill with Cavalleria Rusticana.
  Part 2 (ans: "si puo" ("see pwoh") [or "Si puo?"; or "Si puo morir"]):
    Tonio, in character as Taddeo, sings these two Italian words twice to the audience's "ladies" and "gentlemen" to kick off the prologue of Pagliacci ("pall-YAH-chee"). These two words precede "morir" four times in the final stanza of "Una furtiva lagrima."
  Part 3 (ans: tenor [or tenore; accept spinto tenor; accept dramatic tenor]):
    Enrico Caruso and Luciano Pavarotti are among the most celebrated singers with this voice type to have played Canio.

[BM2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer included the "Octopus aria" in an opera that opens with an invisible choir singing a "Hymn to the Sun" and involves Osaka's plot to kidnap the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pietro Mascagni):
    Name this composer of the opera Iris. This composer wrote a verismo opera in which Alfio kills Turiddu in a duel, which is often performed alongside a fellow composer's opera Pagliacci.
  Part 2 (ans: soprano):
    In Cavalleria Rusticana, the aria "Voi lo sapete" is sung by Santuzza, who sings in this vocal range. Coloratura and spinto are classifications for this highest standard vocal type.
  Part 3 (ans: L'amico Fritz):
    In this other Mascagni opera, the title character and Suzel sing the Act 2 "Cherry Duet." This opera's title character is a wealthy landowner who is comforted by Beppe and Federico.

[BM3] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Intermezzo from this opera plays behind the opening and closing credits to Raging Bull. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]):
    Name this opera that is set entirely in the main square of a village on Easter morning. This opera depicts the relationship between Turiddu, who is returning from military service, and his fiancee Lola.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruggero Leoncavallo):
    Because they are both short Italian verismo operas, Pietro Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana and this other composer's opera Pagliacci are commonly staged together as a "Cav/Pag" double bill.
  Part 3 (ans: clowns [prompt on actor or acting; prompt on commedia dell'arte or comedy or circus or carnival]):
    Pagliacci is titled for this profession of the main character Canio and his troupe. In the aria "Vesti la Giubba," Canio puts on his makeup and costume after singing to "laugh, [this profession], at your broken love!"

[BM4] 2023 ACF Fall (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an aria from this opera, the title character sings how she "never harmed a living soul" and asks God "why do you reward me thus?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tosca):
    Name this opera that includes the aria "Vissi d'arte" ("vee-see DAR-tay") and ends with the title character jumping off of Castel Sant'Angelo to her death after murdering Baron Scarpia.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    Tosca is an example of this Italian genre of opera that focuses on the average man and woman. Other operas in this genre include Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana ("ka-va-LAIR-ia roos-ti-KAH-na") and Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  Part 3 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    This Italian verismo composer created Tosca as well as the operas Madame Butterfly and Turandot.

[BM5] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Alfio and Turiddu take part in this activity at the end of Verga's Cavalleria rusticana after Lola dreams of black grapes, foretelling disaster. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: duelling):
    Name this activity. Casanova wrote an autobiographical novel titled for this activity, while in The Brothers Karamazov the Elder Zosima decided to become a monk while taking part in this activity.
  Part 2 (ans: Sicily):
    Many of Verga's short stories are set among the poor of this largest Italian island, which is also the setting of Lampedusa's The Leopard.
  Part 3 (ans: verismo [do not accept 'naturalism'; prompt on realism]):
    Verga, along with Luigi Capuana, was a proponent of this specific Italian literary movement, which drew on, but did not wholly agree with, a similar movement led by Emile Zola.

[BM6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Give these Italian operatic terms, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    This movement, exemplified by Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana and Leoncavallo's Pagliacci, emphasized portraying life as it is, often with lower-class characters.
  Part 2 (ans: tessitura):
    This term, which comes from the Italian for "weaving," refers to the range of a piece where the majority of the singer's notes lie or where the singer is most comfortable.
  Part 3 (ans: castrato [or castrati]):
    Carlo Broschi, also known as Farinielli, was among the most celebrated of these male singers, whose testes were cut off before puberty to preserve their high voices.

[BM7] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Efix takes pride in serving the impoverished Pintor sisters in a novel set on this island, Reeds in the Wind. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sardinia):
    Name this island home to an author who depicted self-sacrificing mothers in novels like Ashes. In a posthumously-published autobiographical novel, that author described growing up in a "bronze-age village" on this island before struggling with breast cancer.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    That Sardinian author, Grazia Deledda, is sometimes considered a member of this literary movement with an Italian name. A proponent of this movement, Giovanni Verga, wrote "Cavalleria Rusticana," which was adapted into a style of opera with this name.
  Part 3 (ans: Eleonora Duse [DOO-zay] [or La Duse]):
    This Italian actress's only cinematic role was an adaptation of Deledda's novel Ashes. Gabriele D'Annunzio fictionalized his affair with this great rival of Sarah Bernhardt in his novel The Flame of Life.

[BM8] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the so-called "Octopus" aria, one of this composer's characters seems to describe the infamous artwork The Dream of The Fisherman's Wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pietro Mascagni (mah-SKAHN-yee)):
    Name the operatic composer, whose works include L'amico Fritz and the aforementioned Iris.
  Part 2 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]):
    Mascagni is by far best known for composing this classic verismo opera, which is often performed on a "Cav-Pag" double-bill with Leoncavallo's I Pagliacci (EE pall-YAH-chee). It also includes a celebrated intermezzo.
  Part 3 (ans: Turiddu):
    After returning from the army, this protagonist of Cavalleria Rusticana sleeps with Santuzza, which leads to him being killed by Alfio in a duel.

[BM9] 2017 British Novice (2017) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera is perhaps best known for its very beautiful Intermezzo, which plays before Alfio and Turiddu fight a climactic duel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana [accept "Rustic Chivalry"]):
    Name this Pietro Mascagni opera about adultery in rural Sicily, often performed in a double bill with Ruggero Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    Cavalleria Rusticana is considered one of the great examples of this operatic tradition. Whereas Romantic operas often concerned gods, kings and mythological stories, operas in this Italian style focused on the lives of ordinary people.
  Part 3 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    La Traviata is sometimes considered a precursor to the verismo movement. It is a work of this Italian composer, who is also known for operas such as Aida, Nabucco and Il Trovatore.

[BM10] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An opera in this style includes a frequently-excerpted Intermezzo that plays before Turiddu and Alfio duel to the death over the unfaithful Lola. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    Name this style of opera which centers on struggles in average daily life, such as in Pietro Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana.
  Part 2 (ans: Pagliacci):
    In this verismo opera by Ruggero Leoncavallo, Canio sings "Vesti la giubba" as he is forced to smile and put on a show, even though he has just discovered his wife Nedda's infidelity.
  Part 3 (ans: tenor [or Three Tenors]):
    The title protagonist of Pagliacci is scored for this high male vocal range which sits above a baritone. Luciano Pavarotti was a member of a group of "Three" of these singers.

[BM11] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, Santuzza details her seduction in "Voi le sapete", shortly after the singing of the Easter hymn. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]):
    Name this one-act opera by Pietro Mascagni, in which hot-blooded Sicilians Turiddu and Alfio duel over Lola. It is often paired in performance with Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo):
    Cavalleria Rusticana and Pagliacci are operas in this style, defined by its realistic and often violent depictions of unromanticized everyday life.
  Part 3 (ans: "Vesti la giubba"):
    In this aria from Pagliacci, Canio tells himself to laugh, in spite of his misfortune, as he applies his make-up. Caruso's recording of it was the first record to sell a million copies.

[BM12] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: D.H. Lawrence translated this 1889 novel into English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mastro-don Gesualdo [accept Sir-Workman Gesualdo or equivalents with any synonym of "workman"]):
    Name this novel set in Sicily about a peasant married to Bianca Trao.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo):
    Mastro-don Gesualdo was written in this realistic literary genre by Giovanni Verga. This Italian term also denotes the genre of Cavalleria Rusticana, an opera based on Verga's work.
  Part 3 (ans: a boat [or a ship; or a fishing boat; or a steam ship]):
    In Giovanni Verga's The House by the Medlar Tree, the Toscano family sells one of these objects to get back the title residence. Mr. Lethierry hires Gilliatt after losing one of these objects in a Victor Hugo novel.

[BM13] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, set on Easter morning, the male lead has seduced Santuzza to get back at his old girlfriend, leading her to seek comfort with Lucia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria rusticana or Rustic Chivalry):
    Name this opera by Pietro Mascagni which narrates the story of Lola, Santuzza, and the men who duel over them. It is based on a short story by Giovanni Verga.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo):
    Like Pagliacci, with which it is often paired, Cavalleria rusticana belongs to this genre of Italian opera which focuses on depicting realistic emotions and characters. Verdi is often considered the supreme composer of it.
  Part 3 (ans: Turiddu):
    This man, Lucia's son, is the male lead of Cavalleria rusticana. He bites his rival Alfio's ear to instigate a fight to the death, which he then loses.

[BM14] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera's third act, the title character sings "Depuis le jour" and is crowned Queen of Montmartre by a group of Bohemians. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louise):
    Name this opera by Gustave Charpentier about the title seamstress's love for the artist Julien.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo opera):
    Louise is often considered a French example of this type of opera, which focuses on realistic subjects and became popular in the late 19th century. In Italy, examples of this type of opera include Pagliacci and Cavalleria Rusticana.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea Chenier):
    In this verismo opera, the title poet is guillotined along with his lover Maddalena during the French Revolution. It features the aria "La mamma morta," and was composed by Umberto Giordano.
