=== STOCK CLUES: Ringgold ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: quilts [accept story quilts; accept patchwork quilts; prompt on textiles or cloth] (The second clue refers to Faith Ringgold's Street Story Quilt.)
  - In 1997, Eli Leon convinced BAMPFA to showcase works in this medium by a pseudonymous artist from Arkansas. [PWR]
  - "Accident," "Fire," and "Homecoming" are the three sections of a triptych in this medium.
  - Cuesta Benberry popularized works in this medium by the Gee's Bend collective. [PWR]
  - Twenty-six portraits with yellow and brown backgrounds surround a script in a work in this medium that was partially inspired by its artist's experience with (*) overweight stereotypes. [PWR]
  - Works in this medium were created by Rosie Lee Tompkins and the artist of Who's Afraid of Aunt Jemima, Faith Ringgold.
  - Works in this medium were mass-produced during namesake "bees," which drew on designs such as the "shoofly" and "wagon wheel" made by enslaved peoples.
  - For 10 points, name this medium consisting of patches of cloth stitched together. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Faith Ringgold
  - A work by this artist depicts a black woman with a pink swimsuit and a dark shadow in its center and is partially subtitled as an "Over 100 Pound Weight Loss Performance." This creator of Change 2 was inspired to experiment with that work's medium after visiting the Rijksmuseum and seeing Nepali thangkas there. [PWR]
  - In one of their works, people dance amongst the cables of a bridge, and in another work from that series two children lie on a blanket on a rooftop and watch while a girl (*) flies through the night sky above. [PWR]
  - She created a work consisting of many half-length portraits of the title woman and some other figures interspersed by blocks of narrative text about the life of a restaurateur.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of works such as Tar Beach and Who's Afraid of Aunt Jemima?, two of her story quilts. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Faith Ringgold [or Faith Willi Jones]
  - The Stars and Stripes are interwoven with the images of a black man and a white couple in a painting by this artist called The Flag Is Bleeding. [PWR]
  - Another painting of the American flag by this artist shows the word "Die" over the stars and replaces the stripes with the N-word. [PWR]
  - This artist showed Cassie Louise Lightfoot soaring through the night sky above the George Washington Bridge in the background of a work in which a family shares a rooftop dinner. [PWR]
  - This artist of Tar Beach depicted a black woman and her daughters leaping in front of the Mona Lisa in Dancing at the Louvre.
  - The same woman, Willa Marie Simone, poses as one of the models for Les Demoiselles d'Avignon in (*) Picasso's Studio, part of this artist's The French Collection, Part I. [PWR]
  - Her most famous work has brown and yellow sections showing stylized portraits of men and women, as well as white sections that verbally tell a story.
  - For 10 points, name this black artist of narrative quilts like Who's Afraid of Aunt Jemima? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Thelma Golden's 2001 exhibition Freestyle introduced the term "post-Black art" for a movement in which African-American artists distance themselves from race while remaining interested in it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hair):
    Pieces in the exhibition by Mark Bradford and Kori Newkirk incorporated products like pomade, which is most often used with what material? This material is manipulated in Jheri curls and box braids.
  Part 2 (ans: words [or text; or letters]):
    Glenn Ligon, who coined the term "post-Black" with Golden, made many works that place these elements over a white background. Barbara Kruger put these elements in a square overlaid on a hand in I shop therefore I am.
  Part 3 (ans: Who's Afraid of [accept Who's Afraid of Aunt Jemima?; accept Who's Afraid of Post-Blackness?] (Who's Afraid of Aunt Jemima? is a narrative quilt by Faith Ringgold.)):
    The exhibition is a focus of a book by Toure ("too-RAY") whose title precedes "Post-Blackness" with these three words. In an artwork whose title begins with these three words, a woman opens a Harlem restaurant with her husband, Big Rufus.

[B2] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many of Simone Leigh's sculptures incorporate skirts made of this material, such as her sculpture honoring the choreographer Katherine Dunham. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: raffia):
    Name this fiber obtained from a namesake species of palm, which the Kuba people used to make intricate cloth artworks. This straw-like material is often sold at craft stores and woven into designer bags and shoes.
  Part 2 (ans: Faith Ringgold):
    This artist's Witch series uses raffia as decorative hair for many of its pieces, such as Women's Liberation Talking Mask. This artist's similar Family of Woman Mask series includes a life-sized statue of Wilt Chamberlain.
  Part 3 (ans: dance [or dancing; accept Dance at Moulin la Galette]):
    Amedeo Modigliani depicted the raffia costumes of Africans performing this action in his sculpture Head of a Woman. Pierre-Auguste Renoir painted people performing this action at Moulin la Galette ("mu-LAN la guh-LET")

[B3] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The 20th work in this artist's "American People" Series, subtitled "Die," places a huddled white boy and black girl in the center of a bloody mess of cocktail dresses, suits, guns, and chaos. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Faith Ringgold):
    Name this artist who painted that series in response to the United States's 1967 race riots.
  Part 2 (ans: masks):
    Ringgold adorned these objects with garments in her Family of Women series. In one painting, grapes and a crescent-shaped melon slice appear next to a nude who crouches under a standing woman, both wearing these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo Picasso):
    Ringgold showed Willa Marie Simone posing for the aforementioned Les Demoiselles d'Avignon in this artist's Studio. Ringgold's "American People" was inspired by the depictions of chaos in this artist's Guernica.

[B4] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about The Young Visiters, a novel written by the nine-year-old Daisy Ashford, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: J. M. Barrie [or James Matthew Barrie]):
    The Young Visiters was published with a preface by this creator of Peter Pan, leading to persistent rumors that it was he, and not Ashford, who actually wrote it.
  Part 2 (ans: Ringgold Wilmer "Ring" Lardner):
    This author's parody of The Young Visiters, entitled The Young Immigrunts, is the source of perhaps his most quotable sentence: "'Shut up,' he explained."
  Part 3 (ans: Love and Freindship):
    The rampant spelling errors in The Young Visiters, including in the title, recall the spelling error in the title of this piece of juvenilia by Jane Austen, written mostly in the form of letters from Laura to Marianne.

[B5] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Lawrence Steefel argued that the pear, apple, grapes, and melon slice in this painting were arranged in a "sexual grouping" in his article "The Neglected Fruit Cluster." FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Les Demoiselles d'Avignon [or The Young Ladies of Avignon]):
    Name this renowned painting which originally featured a sailor sitting at a table and a man holding a skull. It was the subject of Leo Steinberg's essay "The Philosophical Brothel", which was its working title, and its artist drew inspiration from works he saw in the Musee d'Ethnographie du Trocadero.
  Part 2 (ans: Blue [or Azul]):
    Les Demoiselles d'Avignon may have been a reaction to a nude painted in this color by Henri Matisse. Picasso's own The Old Guitarist is dominated by this color.
  Part 3 (ans: Faith Ringgold):
    Picasso can be seen painting Les Demoiselles d'Avignon in this artist's French Collection. She's best known for her story quilts like Who's Afraid of Aunt Jemima and Aunt Harriet's Underground Railroad in the Sky.
