=== STOCK CLUES: Max Ernst ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 48 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Max Ernst [or Maximilian Maria Ernst]
  - This artist painted a moonlit urban landscape in The Petrified City, made during a trip to Angkor Wat after the end of his menage a trois with Gala and Paul Eluard.
  - Lewd children's rhymes inspired the title of a painting by this artist whose main figure is modeled on a Konkomba corn bin.
  - This husband of Dorothea Tanning cut up Victorian pulp fiction for A Week of Kindness and other collage novels.
  - An open gate and a knob protrude from a painting by this artist in which a girl holds a knife up to a bird.
  - This artist, whose alter ego was named Loplop, scratched paint and rubbed pencil onto uneven surfaces in his methods of grattage and frottage.
  - For 10 points, what German-born surrealist painted Ubu Imperator, The Elephant Celebes, and Two Children Are Threatened by a Nightingale? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: birds [accept nightingales or chickens or turkeys; accept Bird in Space; accept Bird Superior - Portrait of Max Ernst; accept A Bird in the Room; prompt on Loplop until read]
  - A painting titled for one of these animals "in the Room" depicts rocks hanging from metal beams, and is by Kay Sage. [PWR]
  - Large silhouettes of these animals appear in the The Return, Spring, and The Emergence by Rene Magritte, and he paints one in La Clairvoyance. [PWR]
  - A frozen white horse appears behind a man in a red coat in a Leonora Carrington portrait that depicts her lover as one of these animals "Superior." A painting titled for one of these animals was inspired by a measles fever dream and features a man carrying away a girl on a roof as he reaches for a (*) knob. [PWR]
  - One of these animals was a Surrealist painter's alter ego Loplop.
  - A red wooden gate is attached on the left of a Max Ernst collage painting titled Two Children Are Threatened by [one of these animals].
  - For 10 points, a series of sculptures by Constantin Brancusi is named for what animal "in Space?" [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Lewis Carroll [or Charles Lutwidge Dodgson] (The first line refers to Max Ernst's Alice in 1941; the Carrington artworks are both titled How Doth the Little Crocodile.)
  - A character created by this author titles a painting in which a seated, bare-chested woman wears a large hat and robe of the same red color and mossy decalcomania texture as the surrounding landscape. [PWR]
  - For a Maecenas Press printing of a book by this author, a melting clock table was illustrated in one of twelve heliogravures by Salvador Dali. [PWR]
  - One reptile's body serves as a ship on which six similar figures sit in a painting and sculpture titled for a poem by this author and created by (*) Leonora Carrington.
  - This author dropped the chapter "The Wasp in a Wig" on the advice of an illustrator who drew a duchess based on Quentin Matsys's Ugly Duchess, per an annotated edition by Martin Gardner.
  - This author created a character who wears a horseshoe-shaped headband now named for her in illustrations by John Tenniel.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leonora Carrington [or Mary Leonora Carrington] (The artworks are How Doth the Little Crocodile and Self-Portrait (The Inn of the Dawn-Horse). Max Ernst painted Leonora in the Morning Light.)
  - This artist depicted a backward-facing woman atop a tapir  in Godiva in the Jungle as part of a late-career pivot to sculpture encouraged by Isaac Masri.
  - This artist reaches to grip a phallic cluster of flowers near a tiny skeleton in a portrait set "in the Morning Light." A portrait by this artist shows a frozen horse in the background behind a romantic partner in a red woolen coat with a mermaid's tail and a striped sock.
  - A sculpture and a painting by this artist inspired by Lewis Carroll depict a group of crocodiles rowing a boat.
  - A mural by this artist designed for the National Museum of Anthropology is titled The Magical World of the Maya.
  - This painter of Portrait of Max Ernst depicted a galloping white horse through a window in a self-portrait of her sitting in a blue chair near a hyena.
  - For 10 points, name this British-born surrealist who did most of her work in Mexico. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Max Ernst
  - This artist built a large collection of Kachina dolls when he lived in Arizona for eight years. [PWR]
  - A monster reaches out and creates a swastika with its limbs in this artist's Fireside Angel. [PWR]
  - A man wearing orange swim-trunks is seen upside-down in a green pool in a De Chirico-inspired work by this artist. [PWR]
  - Another of this painter's works features a nude woman wearing an orange fur coat that also covers her face. [PWR]
  - This artist of Disrobing of the Bride claimed that one work was "a kind of farewell" to his previous experiences with (*) collages. [PWR]
  - In that painting, a man reaches towards a red and blue knob, and was based on a childhood nightmare.
  - A technique developed by this artist involves rubbing uneven surfaces to create a drawing.
  - For 10 points, identify this artist of Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale who pioneered frottage. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Max Ernst
  - One image created by this artist shows a figure stepping on the neck of a nude woman while being grabbed through an opened door by a man with a skull for a head. [PWR]
  - This artist depicted a group of enormous rats climbing the head of the Great Sphinx in the background of another image. [PWR]
  - This artist used the heads of Easter Island moai and lions to replace the heads of figures in a work split into seven sections that he created by cutting up illustrations from Victorian novels. [PWR]
  - In one painting, this artist depicted himself wearing a white shirt and red pants while being (*) held by a kneeling figure painted entirely in brown, his father. [PWR]
  - This artist's collage novels La Femme 100 Tetes and Une Semaine de Bonte feature a "superior of the birds" invented by him named Loplop.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of Pieta or Revolution by Night, a German surrealist who also painted Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Max Ernst
  - This painter showed two men in a boat facing in opposite directions and putting their fingers in their mouths in Castor and Pollution. [PWR]
  - Another of his paintings depicts a figure wearing a green scarf with a body resembling a spinning top; that painting is inspired by an Alfred Jarry character. [PWR]
  - A headless female mannequin appears in front of a horned metallic creature with a long neck in another painting. [PWR]
  - This husband of Peggy Guggenheim and creator of (*) Ubu Imperator and the Elephant Celebes created a painting in which a man carries off a woman and reaches for a red and blue knob on the picture frame. [PWR]
  - This painter of Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale created techniques involving rubbing a textured surface and scraping oil paint off of a canvas.
  - For 10 points, name this German surrealist who invented frottage and grattage. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Max Ernst
  - This artist showed a blue moon looking over an open cage against a bright orange background in one painting, and he responded to his time in French concentration camps by painting a figure with a helmet and spear standing next to a metallic green spire amidst spongy red ruins. [PWR]
  - In addition to "Soliloquy," he made a portfolio of black-and-white collotypes which included a large circular eye in "The Fugitive," his (*)Natural History series.
  - One of his most frequent subjects piles an enormous red headdress on a nude woman in "Robing of the Bride," and he employed decalcomania to make "Europe after the Rain." A frequent cohort of Jean Arp, this man's alter ego was the birdman Loplop.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of frottage, a German surrealist who painted Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Otherworldly vegetation sprouts from leaf-like appendages representing wings in this artist's painting Garden Airplane-Trap. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Ernst [or Maximilian Maria Ernst] (The unnamed artwork is Two Children Are Threatened by a Nightingale.)):
    Name this artist, who in a collage depicted two soldiers carrying a wounded comrade away from an airplane with human arms. Another of this artist's works blending painting with collage includes a gate attached to its frame next to a girl brandishing a knife at a bird.
  Part 2 (ans: Italian Futurism [or Futurismo]):
    The Aeropittura movement, which concentrated on representations of planes and aerial landscapes, was a late offshoot of this earlier artistic movement whose members included Giacomo Balla and Filippo Marinetti.
  Part 3 (ans: Delaunay [accept Robert Delaunay; accept Sonia Delaunay; accept Sonia Terk; accept Sarah Elievna Stern]):
    A Ferris wheel appears in the background of a "disc painting" by an artist with this surname titled Sun, Tower, Airplane. Another artist with this surname designed the set for Tristan Tzara's 1923 production of The Gas Heart.

[B2] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's alter ego, Loplop, takes the form of a bird due to an early childhood memory of his pet parrot dying. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Ernst):
    This German surrealist and dadaist artist portrayed an extremely large and mechanical elephant in his Elephant Celebes. This man escaped the Nazi regime and fled to America with the help of Peggy Guggenheim.
  Part 2 (ans: Leonora Carrington):
    This surrealist artist's Portrait of Max Ernst portrays him in a snowy landscape, dressed in a furry red coat. Her How Doth the Little Crocodile is both a painting and a bronze sculpture.
  Part 3 (ans: Remedios Varo 1.):
    Carrington was close friends with Kati Horna and this other Spanish-Mexican surrealist, who painted a pair of glasses and a disembodied pair of eyes in Eyes on the Table.

[B3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The exposed grain of a worn wooden floor inspired this technique, which was used to create a series of drawings of distorted trees and birds titled Natural History. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: frottage [reject "grattage"]):
    Name this technique that involves rubbing a sheet of paper on an uneven surface with a soft pencil. It was adapted by its creator into a similarly-named technique for oil painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst [or Maximilian Maria Ernst]):
    The techniques of frottage and grattage were developed by this German Surrealist, who painted Ubu Imperator and Two Children Threatened By a Nightingale.
  Part 3 (ans: collage novels [prompt on collages or novels]):
    Ernst reassembled Victorian steel engravings for his macabre works in this genre, which often featured his alter ego Loplop and include A Week of Kindness and The Hundred Headless Woman.

[B4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist included collages like "The Sword Swallower" and "The Clown" in a work made after he was confined to a wheelchair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henri Matisse):
    Name this Fauvist painter who combined colorful cut-outs in the artist's book Jazz. He also depicted five nudes dancing in The Joy of Life.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    A winged man embracing a woman appears in A Week of Kindness, an artist's book narrated by Loplop and collaged from Victorian novels by this artist. This Surrealist painted bird-headed figures in ruins in Europe After the Rain.
  Part 3 (ans: Ed Ruscha ("roo-SHAY")):
    This painter compiled photographs taken along Route 66 in the artist's book Twenty-Six Gasoline Stations. He also created large paintings of words such as "The End" and "Dance?."

[B5] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of open doors leading into each other appears in the background of this artist's Birthday, and a flying monkey appears in the foreground, along with a self-portrait of the artist baring their chest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothea Tanning):
    Name this artist, whose 2018 retrospective at the Tate Modern included Hotel du Pavot, Chambre 202, an installation of five three-dimensional fabric bodies coming out of the walls of a hotel room.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    In 1946, Tanning married this artist, the inventor of the techniques 'frottage' and 'grattage', which are demonstrated in their works Ubu Imperator and The Elephant Celebes [SEH-leh-beez].
  Part 3 (ans: surrealism):
    Both Tanning and Ernst were members of this cultural movement led by Andre Breton which is characterised by unexpected juxtapositions. Other notable artists from this movement include Salvador Dali.

[B6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two of these animals are on the left and right sides of a barren red and orange painting and have extremely long legs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: elephants [or The Elephant Celebes]):
    Name this animal. A painting titled for a mechanical one of these animals depicts a headless nude wearing a surgical glove in its bottom right corner.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    The Elephant Celebes was painted by this German Surrealist. This inventor of frottage also painted Two Children Are Threatened by a Nightingale.
  Part 3 (ans: Salvador Dali [or Salvador Domingo Felipe Jacinto Dali i Domenech, 1st Marquis of Dali de Pubo]):
    This other Surrealist depicted elephants in his painting Swans Reflecting Elephants. This artist also depicted an ant-covered clock in The Persistence of Memory.

[B7] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this artist's self-portrait, a tailless rocking horse hangs on the wall while a hyena prances in front of an open window, through which a white horse can be seen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonora Carrington):
    Name this artist, who painted birds flying out of the white cloak of a huge golden-haired woman in The Giantess and depicted a three-headed St Anthony next to a river being poured out of a large pot.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or the United Mexican States/Estados Unidos Mexicanos]):
    Leonora Carrington spent most of her adult life living in this country, which has produced renowned muralists like Jose Clemente Orozco and Diego Rivera.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Ernst):
    Before emigrating to Mexico, Carrington had an intense relationship with this German artist of Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale. This pioneer of grattage and frottage painted The Elephant Celebes.

[B8] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A tribalistic depiction of this character shows his many arms clutching a framed collage in a work in which this character "introduces" himself. for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Loplop):
    Name this "superior of birds," who also appears in some of his creator's "collage novels." This character may have been inspired by an incident in its creator's childhood where he learned about the death of his parrot and the birth of his sister within minutes of each other.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    Loplop was created by this German artist of Two Children are Menaced by a Nightingale. This inventor of the "frottage" and "grattage" techniques used a suction method called "decalcomania" to paint Europe After the Rain.
  Part 3 (ans: surrealism):
    Loplop pokes his head over a canvas in an Ernst collage where he "Presents Members" of this art movement, which included Ernst himself. The work includes depictions of Luis Bunuel and Salvador Dali.

[B9] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A woman forms the base of a lamp being turned on and off by a man in one work by this person, while a tiny woman picks berries between the books on a bookshelf in another work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Grete Stern):
    Name this German-Argentinian photographer, the creator of many creepy Dream photocollages for the column "Psychoanalysis Will Help You" and the first half of graphic design firm ringl + pit.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    A dream inspired this artist's work "Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale," in which a man on the roof of a house reaches for a knob on the picture frame. This German Surrealist created grattage and frottage.
  Part 3 (ans: The Nightmare):
    Henry Fuseli painted this work in which an incubus sits on top of a languishing woman while a horse pokes its head through a red curtain.

[B10] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some artists who depicted airplanes in their paintings, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Roy Lichtenstein [or Roy Fox Lichtenstein]):
    This artist used Ben-Day dots in his painting of two airplanes in a dogfight, titled Whaam! In his Drowning Girl, a woman says "I don't care! I'd rather sink than call Brad for help!"
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    A collage by this artist shows the title Murdering Airplane with human arms. This Surrealist created and frequently employed the grattage technique, in which paint is scraped off the canvas.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    Several airplanes appear in a background of colorful circles in this artist's homage to English Channel-crosser Louis Bleriot. That painting is one of many by this artist to include the Eiffel Tower rendered in red.

[B11] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an oil piece on wood, this creature is shown with multiple arms holding a painting of itself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Loplop):
    Name this creature who is presented as a red top in Ubu Imperator.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    Loplop is the birdman alter-ego of this artist of Ubu Imperator, who may have scraped paint over the backbone of a fish in his Forest and Dove using grattage. His Two Children Being Threatened by a Nightingale was inspired by a dream he had while he was sick with measles.
  Part 3 (ans: Dadaism):
    Ernst is most often associated with Surrealism and this nonsensical art movement, which included Marcel Duchamp. It takes its name from the French for "hobbyhorse."

[B12] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Curling spiral tendrils, several flowers and ferns, and fish appear in a disordered circular arrangement in this artist's silver wire bedhead that he made for Peggy Guggenheim. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Calder):
    Name this American sculptor who also designed a set of earrings for Guggenheim that resembled miniatures of his mobiles, which include Lobster TrapandFish Tail.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    The Peggy Guggenheim Collection also contains this painter's Attirement of the Bride, in which a nude woman has the head of an owl and wears a rich red fur coat. He also painted Ubu Imperator and Europe After the Rain.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Metzinger):
    A highlight at the Peggy Guggenheim is this Frenchman's Au Velodrome, in which a racetrack scene is visible through the transparent outline of a cyclist. This Crystal Cubist worked with Albert Gleizes on the text Du Cubisme.

[B13] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist glued a red fence onto a canvas in which a faceless man reaches for a red-and-blue disc and a ghastly woman waves a knife at the title bird. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Ernst):
    Name this German surrealist painter of Two Children are Threatened by a Nightingale, whose alter ego was an anthropomorphic bird named Loplop.
  Part 2 (ans: The Luncheon on the Grass [or Le Dejeuner sur L'Herbe]):
    Max Ernst included an uncomfortable-looking brown fish resting upon a white tablecloth in his parody of this Edouard Manet which caused a stir for portraying a nude woman in the company of two clothed men.
  Part 3 (ans: grattage):
    Ernst created many forest and cityscape scenes using this technique in which paint is applied to a canvas and then partially scraped off.

[B14] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The nude woman in the foreground of this painting was modeled on both the artist's wife, Suzanne Leenhoff, and on the model Victorine Meurent, who had also posed for Olympia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Luncheon on the Grass [or Le Dejeuner sur l'herbe]):
    Name this Impressionist painting by Edouard Manet that shows the aforementioned woman sitting next to two fully clothed men. A picnic basket spills food over her discarded clothes in this work's lower left.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar-Claude Monet):
    This other Impressionist depicted Courbet and Bazille in his own The Luncheon on the Grass. This man painted various scenes around his home at Argenteuil, as well as steam-filled depictions of the Gare Saint-Lazare.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Ernst):
    In a parody of The Luncheon on the Grass, this artist included a fish with razor-sharp teeth and an empty wine bottle. In Ubu Imperator, this surrealist represented an Alfred Jarry character as a giant red top.

[B15] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this art technique, the canvas is placed over a textured object and the dried paint above that object is scraped over. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: grattage):
    Name this Surrealist art technique.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    The inventor of frottage and grattage was this German Dadaist and surrealist, whose works include The Temptation of St. Anthony and a bizarre photomontage, Here Everything is Still Floating.
  Part 3 (ans: Joan Miro i Ferra):
    This Catalan painter of Dog Barking at the Moon and other "dream pictures" helped Ernst develop the grattage technique.
