=== STOCK CLUES: Bharati Mukherjee ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mukherjee [accept Abir Mukherjee, Neel Mukherjee, Siddhartha Mukherjee, or Bharati Mukherjee]
  - An author with this surname wrote a pentalogy of crime novels starring Captain Wyndham and Sergeant Banerjee. [PWR]
  - Another author with this surname created an unsuccessful farmer who kills his starving wife and children in the prologue of his novel The Lives of Others. [PWR]
  - An author with surname name chronicled the history of genes and genetic research in an "intimate history" and wrote a (*) "biography of cancer" titled The Emperor of All Maladies. [PWR]
  - A Canadian author with this surname fictionalized a plane bombing in her story "The Management of Grief." For 10 points, the novels Wife and Jasmine were written by an author with what surname and first name Bharati? [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Bharati Mukherjee
  - In a story by this author, the narrator's neighbor tells her only "modern young girls have to say it" when she reveals she never told her husband that she loved him.
  - The arms smuggler Alfred Judah lusts after Clovis Ransome's wife in the title story of a collection by this author.
  - This author wrote the book The Sorrow and the Terror with Clark Blaise, the basis of a story where a woman wades into a bay in Ireland and speaks to a couple on behalf of the social worker Judith Templeton.
  - In a novel by this author, a girl kills the ship captain Half-Face before settling down in Iowa with the wheelchair-bound banker Bud Ripplemayer.
  - That novel by this author is based on a story about a young maid from her collection The Middleman and Other Stories.
  - For 10 points, name this Canadian author of Bengali origin who wrote the oft-anthologized story "The Management of Grief" and the novel Jasmine. [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Bharati Mukherjee [prompt on partial answer]
  - This author described her own "twin halves" when living in a foreign country where she faced sentiments of racism in the essay "An Invisible Woman," which parallels the protagonist of one of her novels who stabs her husband seven times.
  - The narrator concludes that "I think I can only envy her" when thinking of Kusum, a woman who lost her daughter, in this author's story "The (*) Management of Grief." In one of this author's novels, the title character lives on a farm in Iowa with an adopted child, Du, and the crippled Bud Ripplemeyer after the death of her husband at a young age.
  - Often focusing on themes of displacement and immigration, this author wrote the collections Darkness and The Middleman and Other Stories.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the novels Wife and Jasmine who hails from India. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's title character lives in Iowa with the banker Bud Ripplemayer who repeatedly refuses Darrel Lutz's loan applications for a new farm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jasmine):
    Name this novel. The protagonist of this novel immigrates to Florida after her husband is killed in a bombing attack while shopping for saris.
  Part 2 (ans: Bharati Mukherjee):
    Jasmine was written by this Indian Canadian author. This author wrote about the aftermath of a plane crash that kills Shaila's husband and two sons in "The Management of Grief".
  Part 3 (ans: Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]):
    Ashoke survives a train crash using a page from The Overcoat in The Namesake, a novel by this author of The Interpreter of Maladies.

[B2] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of a play in this language is introduced as "and Indrajit," since he is seen as a member of society instead of an individual with his own identity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bengali [or Bangla]):
    Give this language of the plays of Badal Sarkar. Amal is mocked for fantasizing about receiving a letter from the king in The Post Office, a play in this language.
  Part 2 (ans: Rabindranath Tagore):
    The Post Office is a Bengali play by this author of the poetry collection Gitanjali.
  Part 3 (ans: Mukherjee [or Bharati Mukherjee; or Arun Mukherjee]):
    A Bengali playwright with this surname wrote the plays Mareech Sambad and Jagannath. An author of Bengali origin with this surname was inspired by the Air India Flight 182 bombing for a story centering on Shaila Bhave.

[B3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel set in this city, Murugan learns about a mysterious cult that tries to guide scientific research on malaria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kolkata [or Calcutta; accept The Calcutta Chromosome]):
    Name this city that partially titles a genetics-based historical fiction thriller by Amitav Ghosh. Supratik mobilizes an agrarian uprising in another novel set in this city, The Lives of Others.
  Part 2 (ans: Mukherjee [accept Bharati Mukherjee; accept Neel Mukherjee]):
    The Lives of Others is by an author with this surname and first name Neel. Another author with this surname and first name Bharati co-authored the memoir Days and Nights in Calcutta.
  Part 3 (ans: Roy [accept Arundhati Roy; accept Anuradha Roy]):
    Anuradha, an author with this surname, depicts three generations of a family from Kolkata in An Atlas of Impossible Longing. The author of The God of Small Things has this surname and first name Arundhati.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author expanded a story from her collection The Middleman and Other Stories into a novel whose protagonist is at first called Jyoti, but later changes names as she moves through her life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bharati Mukherjee):
    Name this author of the novel Jasmine. This author lived in Canada at the time of the Air India Flight 182 bombing, which inspired her story "The Management of Grief."
  Part 2 (ans: Jhumpa Lahiri [Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]):
    A phrase from The Scarlet Letter titles this author's collection Unaccustomed Earth, whose focus on Indian Americans is shared by her earlier collection Interpreter of Maladies.
  Part 3 (ans: Kiran Desai):
    Though her mother Anita last published in 2011, releasing the collection The Artist of Disappearance, this Indian-born author has not published since her acclaimed 2006 novel The Inheritance of Loss.

[B5] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The Sikh bombing of Air India 182 inspired an oft-anthologized story by this author titled "The Management of Grief." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bharati Mukherjee):
    Name this former Berkeley professor of Bengali origin who passed away in early 2017. She wrote the collections Darkness and The Middleman and Other Stories, the latter of which contains the inspiration for her novel Jasmine.
  Part 2 (ans: Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]):
    Miranda asks Dev what Bengal is in this author's story "Sexy," whose title word is defined by Rohin as "loving someone you don't know." "Sexy" appears in this author's collection Interpreter of Maladies.
  Part 3 (ans: blackouts [or power outages; accept equivalents]):
    In the first story in The Interpreter of Maladies, "A Temporary Matter," a series of these events help rekindle the relationship of Shoba and Shukumar after the stillbirth of their son.

[B6] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about Bengali literature:
  Part 1 (ans: Gitanjali [accept Song Offerings]):
    Perhaps the best-known work in Bengali is this poetry collection, published in 1910 with 157 poems in Bengali, then republished in English in 1912 with 50 of the originals plus 53 of Rabindranath Tagore's other works.
  Part 2 (ans: Chatterjee [Upamanyu Chatterjee or Sarat Chandra Chatterjee; accept Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay]):
    A Bengali author with this surname wrote novels like Parineeta, which depicts the orphan Lalita's upbringing. That novelist shares one of his surnames with another Indian author with this surname who wrote "The Assassination of Indira Gandhi" and a novel about Agastya Sen's sojourn in the countryside, English, August.
  Part 3 (ans: Bharati Mukherjee):
    Beigh Masters uses a virtual reality program to travel back in time to understand why Hannah Eaton became a Mughal concubine in this author's The Holder of the World. She also wrote Jasmine and The Tiger's Daughter.

[B7] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was a prominent figure in the Bengali Renaissance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rabindranath Tagore [accept Rabindranath Thakur]):
    Name this author who wrote The Home and the World, in which Sandip spreads the notion of Swadeshi and is in conflict with Nikhil. He was the first Asian to win the Nobel Prize in Literature and wrote the national anthem of India and Bangladesh.
  Part 2 (ans: Gitanjali [accept Song Offerings]):
    This poetry collection won Tagore the friendship of Yeats and the admiration of Europe. It contains such poems as "Mind Without Fear," "Purity," and "Song Unsung."
  Part 3 (ans: Bharati Mukherjee):
    This other author of Bengali origin wrote about a Hindu woman travels to America after her husband dies in Jasmine. She wrote about a Calcutta native named Tara who returns to India in The Tiger's Daughter.
