=== STOCK CLUES: Jasmine ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Yusef Komuyaaka (The first poem is "Jasmine.")
  - The speaker of a poem by this author listens to Elvin Jones and wonders "which one is wearing jasmine" as he sits between two white women that he would have previously crossed the street to avoid. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about his alcoholic, jazz-playing father-in-law Frank in the collection February in Sydney, a city he visited with his Australian wife Mandy Sayer. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about "the smallest man in the platoon, in an echo chamber that makes his ears bleed when he pulls the trigger" in the poem "Tunnels." This poet reflected on his childhood in Bougainville, Louisiana in the Pulitzer-winning collection (*) Neon Vernacular.
  - The speaker of a poem by this author at first thinks "a woman's trying to erase names" before correcting himself: "No she's brushing a boy's hair." This author's collection Dien Cai Dau includes his most anthologized poem, which includes the lines "I said I wouldn't dammit: No tears" after beginning "My black face fades / hiding inside the black granite." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about a visit to the Vietnam Veterans' Memorial in the poem "Facing It." [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: flowers [accept chrysanthemums; accept violets; accept jasmine]
  - Manon Lescaut's finale draws on a string quartet named for these objects composed by Giacomo Puccini for the funeral of the Duke of Aosta.
  - After opening a package of these objects, the title character describes them as "poor" and throws some into the fireplace in the opera Adriana Lecouvreur. [PWR]
  - Above a flowing sixteenth-note accompaniment, the melody (read slowly): long D-sharp, C-sharp - D-sharp - E, opens a song describing a (*) "thick dome" and "dense canopy" of these objects. [PWR]
  - In Lillias Pastia's inn, Don Jose sings an aria to Carmen about one of these objects that she had given him during her "Habanera." In another opera, the servant Mallika and the title priestess sing a song about these objects as they collect them near a stream.
  - For 10 points, what objects name a celebrated duet from Leo Delibes's opera Lakme? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: rice [accept specific types of rice like Champa rice; Basmati rice; or Jasmine rice, accept rice wine or rice vinegar, prompt on Chinkiang vinegar or Sake with "what agricultural product are they typically derived from?"]
  - The former temple site of Tenryu-ji was used for processing this good during the Muromachi period.
  - Derivatives of this product were supposedly created accidentally by Du Kang's son Heita during the Xia (shee-UH) dynasty.
  - Tri Hita Karana was a belief system practiced at "water temples" which used the subak system to assist in planting this crop.
  - The Royal Ploughing Ceremony was primarily concerned with planting this crop.
  - The Song Emperor Zhenzong (JEN-tszong) spread a drought-resistant variety of this crop from Fujian (FU-jee-ahn) across China.
  - Hand-carved stepped terraces for this crop can be found at Banaue in the Philippines.
  - For 10 points, the Champa name a species of what staple grain of Southeast Asia whose other varieties include Basmati and Jasmine? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's title character lives in Iowa with the banker Bud Ripplemayer who repeatedly refuses Darrel Lutz's loan applications for a new farm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jasmine):
    Name this novel. The protagonist of this novel immigrates to Florida after her husband is killed in a bombing attack while shopping for saris.
  Part 2 (ans: Bharati Mukherjee):
    Jasmine was written by this Indian Canadian author. This author wrote about the aftermath of a plane crash that kills Shaila's husband and two sons in "The Management of Grief".
  Part 3 (ans: Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri]):
    Ashoke survives a train crash using a page from The Overcoat in The Namesake, a novel by this author of The Interpreter of Maladies.

[B2] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This figure is addressed with the Tamil epithet Kannan in Nammalvar's poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Krishna [or Krsna; prompt on Vishnu or Visnu]):
    Name this subject of erotic verses addressed to the "Dark One" by Mirabai, whose poems also describe this figure's relationship with the gopi Radha.
  Part 2 (ans: A. K. Ramanujan [or Attipate Krishnaswami Ramanujan]):
    This translator rendered Nammalvar's poems in Hymns for the Drowning. Before his untimely death in Chicago, this prolific philologist translated Telugu courtesan songs in When God Is a Customer and reported seeing himself "signed in a corner / by my father" in his poem "Self Portrait."
  Part 3 (ans: jasmine [accept "my lord of white jasmine" or Jasmine]):
    Ramanujan also translated Akka Mahadevi's poems in which she laments Shiva's absence, calling him "my lord of" this "white" plant. Prakash dies in a bombing in a Bharati Mukherjee novel titled for this plant.

[B3] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During the 2013 Chinese New Year's Gala, Celine Dion performed a duet of this song with Song Zuying. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mo Li Hua" ("mwuh lee hwah") [or "Jasmine Flower"]):
    Name this Chinese folk song that opens with the melody [read slowly] "E, E-G-A-C-C-A-G," as the narrator observes a "beautiful" one of the title objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Turandot):
    After he was gifted a music box with Chinese melodies, Giacomo Puccini based the musical theme for this character on "Mo Li Hua." This title princess of Puccini's last opera gives a deadly challenge of three riddles to win her hand in marriage.
  Part 3 (ans: Tan Dun):
    The melody of "Mo Li Hua" is also quoted in this contemporary Chinese composer's Symphony 1997. This composer of the Water Concerto scored the films Hero and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about terrorist attacks in works by ethnically Indian authors from Canada.
  Part 1 (ans: Jasmine):
    The radical terrorist Sukhwinder kills the protagonist's husband Prakash in this novel by Bharati Mukherjee.
  Part 2 (ans: plane crash [accept answers relating to a plane being shot down; prompt on bombing] (The other novel is The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie.)):
    Bharati Mukherjee also wrote the story "The Management of Grief," in which Shaila's family dies in one of these events caused by Sikh terrorists. At the beginning of a novel by a different author, two characters turn into an angel and demon during one of these events.
  Part 3 (ans: Indira Gandhi [or Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi; prompt on Gandhi or Nehru]):
    In the novel A Fine Balance by Rohinton Mistry, Maneck Kolah returns to India and sees the widespread killing of Sikhs after two Sikh guards assassinated this Indian Prime Minister.

[B5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Giacomo Puccini's attempts to incorporate authentic local musical traditions into his operas, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Girl of the Golden West [or The Girl of the West or La fanciulla del West]):
    Puccini used a Zuni melody collected by ethnomusicologist Carlos Troyer in Jake Wallace's song in this opera, which follows the title female protagonist during the California Gold Rush.
  Part 2 (ans: "Mo Li Hua" [or "Jasmine Flower"]):
    In Turandot, Puccini quoted this Chinese folk song, which a children's chorus sings after the Act I invocation to the moon. This song, whose title references a flower, begins with the pentatonic melody "E [pause], E, G, A, C, C, A, G."
  Part 3 (ans: Madama Butterfly [or Madame Butterfly]):
    This Puccini opera quotes the folk tune "Miyasan" during the arrival of the wealthy Yamadori in its second act. This opera's title character commits seppuku after Pinkerton renounces her.

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The Malay hero Hang Tuah possessed one of these objects named Taming Sari, which granted its owners invincibility and ensured that they would not be defeated in battle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: daggers [or kris; accept knives or blades or swords]):
    Name these weapons that, in a traditional Balinese dance, are directed toward the chests of performers due to a spell cast by Rangda. Sikhs carry the kirpan, a ceremonial example of these weapons, as one of the Five Ks.
  Part 2 (ans: Barong):
    The kris dance featuring those eponymous ceremonial daggers occurs as part of a larger performance named for this benevolent lion spirit, who confronts the demon queen Rangda.
  Part 3 (ans: jasmine [accept white jasmine or Arabian jasmine or Sambac jasmine or Jasminum sambac; or melati putih; or molihua]):
    At weddings, grooms carry krises garlanded in these flowers because of a prince who hung his intestines on his kris to keep fighting. A Chinese folk song praises the fragrant buds of this flower, which is used in a tea notably produced in Fuzhou.

[B7] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet born in this city was influenced by his sister's suicide to write progressive collections like Childhood of a Breast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Damascus [or Dimashq; accept "The Jasmine Scent of Damascus" or "A Damascene Ballad" or Songs of Mihyar the Damascene or "Mawwal Dimashqi" or Aghani Mihyar al-Dimashqi] (Those poets are Nizar Qabbani and Adonis.)):
    Name this city whose "Jasmine Scent" titles a poem by that author. A poet who called this city "a rush of wind" in his poem "A Grave for New York" is best known for a collection about Mihyar, a man from this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Arabic [or al-'arabiyyah]):
    Adonis writes in, and Nizar Qabbani wrote in, this national language of Syria.
  Part 3 (ans: Lebanon [or the Lebanese Republic] (The unnamed poet is Kahlil Gibran.)):
    Adonis wrote Songs of Mihyar the Damascene while in exile in this country. An author from this modern-day country wrote the aphorism-laden poem "Sand and Foam" and a book of prose poems about a native of Orphalese ("OR-fuh-leez").

[B8] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: The production of this crop was the focus of an unsuccessful "Mega" project undertaken by the Indonesian government in the 1990s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rice [accept specific types like basmati, jasmine, and brown rice]):
    Name this crop grown in Indonesia and Malaysia on irrigated paddies called sawahs, which can yield two or three harvests of this crop per year. This crop is often grown in terraces on hilly terrain.
  Part 2 (ans: Borneo):
    The Mega Rice Project attempted to turn peatlands and forests in Kalimantan, the portion of this island administered by Indonesia, into rice paddies.
  Part 3 (ans: Sarawak):
    The Dayak people grow the unique Bario rice variety in this Malaysian state in Borneo's northwest. This state shares its name with a kingdom once ruled by the Brooke family, who were known as the White Rajahs.

[B9] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Chinese folk songs, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Mongolia [or Monggol Uls]):
    The popular song "Meet in Yurt" originates from in this Asian country. It is home to a style of throat-singing that is similar to throat-singing in the neighboring Tuva Republic.
  Part 2 (ans: butterflies [accept Butterfly Lovers Violin Concerto; accept Papillons; prompt on insects]):
    Many songs and a Chinese violin concerto were inspired by a tale about the lovers Liang Shanbo ("lyong shahn-bo") and Zhu Yingtai ("joo yeeng-tie"), who turn into these animals after death. The Opus 2 piano suite by Robert Schumann is titled for these animals and depicts a masked ball.
  Part 3 (ans: jasmine [accept Jasmine Revolution; accept Molihua]):
    A popular Qing-era folk song that describes this plant's sweet, budding flowers was adapted by Giacomo Puccini to represent the splendor of the title princess in his opera Turandot. In 2011, pro-democracy protesters in China sung that song named for this plant during a revolution of the same name, resulting in the song's censorship.
