=== STOCK CLUES: Libeskind ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Daniel Libeskind
  - One residence designed by this architect features carpets that release the smell of lavender when stepped on and dark oak paneling that contrasts with the slanted steel-paned exterior. [PWR]
  - A similar style of concrete and wood with sharp exterior angles characterizes a shopping center this architect designed on the outskirts of Bern. [PWR]
  - He designed a building that is accessible only through underground tunnels, of which it contains a trisection at its core; that building is laid out in a zigzag fashion and is linked to the Holocaust Tower. [PWR]
  - This architect of the (*) Westside Center and the Frederic Hamilton wing of the Denver Art Museum also designed a building that will have a 1,776 foot tall spire upon completion in 2013 and was once known as Freedom Tower.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of the Berlin Jewish Museum whose One World Trade Center will stand at the former site of the Twin Towers. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 ACF Nationals Qualifier (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The jagged shape of the Rocky Mountains inspired this architect's design of the Frederic C. Hamilton building, an extension to the Denver Art Museum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Libeskind):
    Name this Polish-American architect whose Jewish Museum in Berlin features sections called "voids" meant to represent the emptiness left by the erasures of the Holocaust.
  Part 2 (ans: World Trade Center [or WTC]):
    Libeskind won the rights to oversee the rebuilding of this Lower Manhattan complex, which includes a David Childs building colloquially known as Freedom Tower.
  Part 3 (ans: Thom Mayne):
    This controversial LA-based architect, a co-founder of the firm Morphosis and designer of the Diamond Ranch High School in Pomona and Caltrans District 7 Headquarters, submitted rejected plans for the rebuilt World Trade Center.

[B2] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2017, Rome mayor Virginia Raggi prevented three triangular towers designed by this architect from being included in the park next to football club AS ("ah-ess") Roma's planned new stadium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Libeskind):
    Name this Polish-American architect whose Jewish Museum in Berlin has several empty "voids" lacking air conditioning, one of which contains thousands of iron cutouts resembling human faces.
  Part 2 (ans: One World Trade Center [or One WTC; or Freedom Tower; prompt on World Trade Center or WTC]):
    David Childs of Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill discarded much of Libeskind's preliminary design for this New York skyscraper built as a spiritual replacement to the Twin Towers destroyed on 9/11.
  Part 3 (ans: Canada (The architect of the Dancing House is Frank Gehry, and Habitat 67 was for Montreal's Expo.)):
    Libeskind's "Crystal" was a controversial addition to a museum in this country. Moshe Safdie ("mo-SHEH SAHF-dee") built a modular "Habitat" for a World's Fair in this country, the home country of the architect of the Dancing House.

[B3] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One building designed by this man has a zig-zag design and is connected by a series of underground tunnels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Libeskind):
    Name this architect who designed the Jewish Museum Berlin along with the Imperial War Museum North in Manchester.
  Part 2 (ans: Freedom Tower [or One World Trade Center]):
    Libeskind may be best known for winning the competition to design this 1,776 foot building in Lower Manhattan. It's now being designed by David M. Childs.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Denmark [or Kongeriget Danmark]):
    Apart from Berlin, Libeskind also designed the Jewish Museum in this country. An architect from this country is currently building the sloping W57 housing project in New York, while another designed Can Lis and Can Feliz in Majorca.

[B4] 2012 Illinois Fall Tournament (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following questions about the wondrous architecture of New York City.
  Part 1 (ans: art deco):
    The Chrysler Building's spire is representative of this 1920's artistic style that can also be seen in the entrance gates to the Paris Metro.
  Part 2 (ans: Empire State Building):
    This second-tallest building in New York City can be found at Fifth and 34th and was designed by the architectural firm Shreve, Lamb and Harmon.
  Part 3 (ans: Daniel Libeskind):
    This Jewish architect submitted a design for 1 WTC, which calls for a building's height of 1,776 feet. That building, at some point called the Freedom Tower, is currently being constructed.
