=== STOCK CLUES: Heine ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 50 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 27 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Answer: caffeine [accept guaranine; accept theine; accept mateine; accept decaffeination; accept methyltheobromine until "theobromine" is read]
  - In the Jendrassik-Grof procedure, an accelerator consisting of sodium benzoate and this compound is used to solubilize bilirubin in water. [PWR]
  - A reagent mix consisting of sodium hydroxide and iodomethane was used by Emil Fischer to first artificially synthesize this compound in 1895. [PWR]
  - After being trafficked to the liver, this compound mostly gets metabolized into paraxanthine . [PWR]
  - This compound can be synthesized by N-methylating (*) theobromine. [PWR]
  - In one environmentally friendly method, this compound is extracted from a certain product using a supercritical carbon dioxide solvent.
  - In its most common application, this purine alkaloid functions by blocking the binding of adenosine with its neuronal receptors.
  - For 10 points, name this bitter stimulant found naturally in coffee beans. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Heinrich Heine (A Midsummer Night's Dream is the subtitle for Atta Troll.)
  - This poet left his home country after writing an anti-censorship poem whose only words are "censors" and "idiots." This author's travels from Paris to Hamburg inspired a mock epic ridiculing Ferdinand Freiligrath and a satirical travelogue through the Teutoburg Forest, both of which he gave Shakespearean subtitles. [PWR]
  - This author's play Almansor includes the line "where they burn books, they will ultimately burn people." This author of Germany: (*) a Winter's Tale described the hunt for a dancing bear in his poem Atta Troll.
  - This poet's Lyrisches Intermezzo were set to music in Robert Schumann's Dichterliebe.
  - A poem by this author describes a creature on the Rhine who "combs her golden hair." For 10 points, name this German poet who wrote about a Siren-like mermaid in "The Lorelei." [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Heinrich Heine [or Christian Johann Heinrich Heine]
  - A travelogue this author wrote while on Norderney ends by quoting satirical poems by Karl Immermann like "The Poetic Literator" and "Orbis Pictus" in its attack on German literature. [PWR]
  - A chapter from an early book of "Ideen"  by this author consists of the phrase "the German censors," some redactions, and the word "idiots." The speaker of a long poem by this author relives Hermann's victory at the Battle of Teutoburg Forest and imagines explaining politics to a rewoken (*) Frederick Barbarossa.
  - That poem centers on a journey this author took from Paris to Hamburg.
  - An account of a walking-tour through the Harz  mountains opens this author's Travel Pictures.
  - In a 27-canto mock-epic by this poet, the witch Uraka and her son Laskaro pursue an escaped dancing bear through the Pyrenees.
  - For 10 points, name this German romantic poet of Germany: A Winter's Tale and "Atta Troll." [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Muller [accept Heiner Muller or Herta Muller]
  - An author with this surname wrote a play consisting of an hour of 'theatre games' based on Dangerous Liaisons. [PWR]
  - A novel by an author with this surname opens by describing the hanging of the promiscuous teenager Lola, who rebels against totalitarianism. [PWR]
  - A postmodernist playwright with this surname wrote Quartet, as well as a play in which Ophelia offers her 'clock heart' to Hamlet to eat, titled Hamletmachine. [PWR]
  - The recollections of Oskar Pastior inspired a verse novel by an author with this surname set in a location in which 'one (*) shovel load of coal equals one gram of bread'. [PWR]
  - The Land of Green Plums is by an author with this surname who wrote about Leo Auberg's time in a Soviet work camp in The Hunger Angel.
  - For 10 points, the 2009 Literature Nobel was won by a Romanian-born author with what surname, and first name Herta? [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Ariel Sharon [or Ariel Scheinermann]
  - This leader's voracious appetite inspired a local TV show to insinuate that he ate entire sheep, in reference to his family's thousand-acre Sycamore Sheep Ranch.
  - This man's political career was propelled by his successes in leading a nighttime assault on Um Qataf and as a tank commander during the capture of the "Chinese Farm" in Operation Gazelle.
  - In 1953, this man created his country's Unit 101 guerrilla brigade, which later merged with the 890th Paratroop Battalion on the orders of (*) Moshe Dayan.
  - This man spent the final eight years of his life in a vegetative coma following a stroke, which took place only months after he founded his country's centrist "Forward" party.
  - As Defense Minister, this founder of Kadima earned the nickname "Butcher of Beirut" for his negligence in the lead-up to the Sabra and Shatila massacre.
  - For 10 points, what successor of Ehud Barak served as Prime Minister of Israel from 2001 to 2006? [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Heinrich Heine ("HY-nuh") [or Christian Johann Heinrich Heine]
  - This writer used the term "mattress-grave" for the bed that he was confined to for the last eight years of his life due to a mysterious paralytic illness.
  - This author, who coined the word "Lisztomania," wrote about a man "seized with a savage woe" who'd "rather look up at the mountain than down at the rocks below" in a poem that was set to music by Liszt.
  - An otherwise minor play by this author is the source of the quote "Where they burn books, in the end they will also burn human beings." This author described his journey from Paris to Hamburg in a long poem subtitled "A Winter's Tale," and also alluded to Shakespeare in the subtitle of a satire about an escaped dancing bear.
  - In a short lyric poem, this author of Atta Troll described a golden-haired maiden on the Rhine who lures sailors to their deaths.
  - For 10 points, name this German expatriate poet of "Die Lorelei" . [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Heinrich Heine
  - In a poem by this author, one of the title characters says that his wife and child should 'go beg' because Napoleon has been taken.
  - In another work by this author, the narrator claims that he wants to lay his hand upon the addressee's hair and pray to God that he keeps her 'fine, pure and fair'.
  - In a satirical work by this author, the protagonist visualises honey dripping down from a tree before he is shot by Laskaro.
  - That protagonist created by this author is a dancing bear.
  - A narrator created by this author of the The Grenadiers and Atta Troll claims that he is he is haunted by the legend of a maiden whose beauty leads boatmen to drown in the Rhine.
  - For 10 points, name this German author of The Book of Songs, which includes his poem Die Lorelei. [GIVE]

[T8] 2014 Gorilla Lit (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Christian Johann Heinrich Heine
  - The penultimate poem of one of his sets begins "Death, that is the cool night / Life is the sultry day." In another of his poems, a soldier wants to be buried in full uniform so he can rise from the grave and defend his emperor. [PWR]
  - At the beginning of that poem by this author, news of Napoleon's capture reaches the title "Grenadiers." The speaker of one of his poems satirically wishes to lay his hands upon the addressee's head and pray to keep her "so comely and beautiful and pure." Another of his poems begins "I do not know what it should mean / that I am so unhappy," since he is haunted by the (*) legend of a maiden who combs her golden hair, whose beauty leads boatmen to drown. [PWR]
  - His most famous collection includes sections like "Lyrisches Intermezzo," "Die Heimkehr" and "Die Nordsee." For 10 points, name this German Romantic poet, who included poems like "Du bist wie eine Blume" and "Die Loreley" in his Buch der Lieder. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 CLEAR (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Heinesen
  - One character created by this author, Wenningstedt, hoping to wed Eliana, gives her the Mangle House after the disappearance of her husband, but he dies before he can give her a 500-kroner bill with a note from her husband.
  - In another work by this author, a youth carves a deformed doll from a stump of driftwood, which its recipient calls both Seagold and Shameface, but which her son dubs Gol; that youth, Ekkehart, loves the daughter of Josef Sif, Antonia, who is transfigured into the title character after she gives birth to her son, who like her is tormented by Trine the Eyes and her obsession with sin.
  - In addition to Mother Pleiades, this author wrote a novel which ends with Orfeus leaving his home, but not before Sirius dies of consumption, Kornelius is sentenced to an asylum for a bank robbery, and Moritz kills himself at sea after murdering Matte-Gok.
  - Ankersen's push for total prohibition helps to cause the destruction of the title group in The Lost Musicians, a work by, For 10 points, what Faroese author of The Black Cauldron? [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Heinrich Heine
  - This poet concluded one poem with the lines, "Sleep is good, death is better--surely the best would be never to have been born." Another of his poems begins, "I don't know what it means that I am so sorrowful." This poet of "Morphine" wrote an early two-part collection titled Travel Pictures.
  - His play Almansor contains the famous line, "Where they burn books, in the end they will also burn people." He included the cycles "Youthful Sorrows" and "The North Sea" in his seminal Book of Songs.
  - For 10 points, name this German Romantic poet whose poems such as "Die Lorelei" were frequently set to music as Lieder. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is first introduced as a child purchased from a theatre troupe and later decides to adopt after she performs an egg dance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mignon ("min-YAWN")):
    Name this character from Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship who later sings her namesake song, which opens with "Do you know the land where the lemons blossom?"
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe):
    Mignon is a character created by this author of Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship. This author, a pioneer of the Innerlichkeit ("INNER-lish-kite") style, had his poem "The Erl-King" set to music by Franz Schubert.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Heine (The poem is "Die Lorelei.")):
    The first published poetry collection of this fellow Innerlichkeit poet was his Book of Songs. This poet's most famous poem describes a maiden who sits on a mountain and combs her hair with a golden brush.

[B2] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: COSAW published a collection of this poet's previously banned poems, titled When the Clouds Clear, when he returned from exile in 1990. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Keorapetse Kgositsile ("ko-ra-PET-seh ho-set-SEE-leh") [or Keorapetse William Kgositsile; prompt on Bra Willie]):
    Name this poet whose declaration that "this is the last age of poems" before "guns and rifles" take over inspired the Last Poets, a spoken-word collective formed during his exile in New York in the '60s.
  Part 2 (ans: Pan-Africanism [accept Panafrica; prompt on My Name is Afrika]):
    Kgositsile's 1971 collection is titled in reference to this movement, which names the setting of Peter Abrahams's A Wreath for Udomo. Kwame Nkrumah advocated this movement for worldwide solidarity among Black people.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinemann [or William Heinemann Ltd.; accept Heinemann African Writers Series]):
    Kgositsile's work appeared in Poems of Black Africa, a volume that Wole Soyinka edited for the influential "African Writers Series" put out by this London-based publisher.

[B3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: One method of proving this theorem involves bisecting intervals and taking the half with infinitely many terms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem [prompt on BW; prompt on sequential compactness]):
    Name this doubly eponymous theorem which states that any bounded real-valued sequence has a convergent subsequence.
  Part 2 (ans: closedness [accept word forms]):
    A generalisation of the Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem to metric spaces is sequential compactness, which occurs in a subset of Euclidean space if and only if it is bounded and has this property. A subset of a topological space has this property if its complement is open.
  Part 3 (ans: Heine-Borel Theorem):
    This other theorem in analysis states that a subset of Euclidean space is compact if and only if it is closed and bounded.

[B4] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: During a book burning in Yoko Ogawa's novel The Memory Police, the narrator recalls the saying "Men who start by burning books end by burning other men," which in real life comes from a play by this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heinrich Heine (that poem is Die Lorelei.)):
    Name this author of the play Almansor, in which Christians burn Granada during the Spanish Inquisition. This author's most famous poem draws on a German legend about a mermaid who lures sailors to their doom.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote [accept either underlined part of Alonso Quijano]):
    In a novel set during the Spanish Inquisition, because this delusional knight from La Mancha has been reading too many books on chivalry, his housekeeper burns down his personal library.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Frisch):
    The jury's still out on whether books are included in the collateral damage of houses being burned down in this author's play The Fire Raisers, although this author did once go into the woods to burn all his manuscripts.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: "Death Fugue," a poem written in this language, opens with the line "Black milk of morning we drink you evenings." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: German language [or Deutsch] (The poems are Paul Celan's "Death Fugue" and Heinrich Heine's "Die Lorelei.")):
    Name this language also used for a poem whose opening lines are commonly translated as "I do not know what it means / That I should feel so sad" and describes a siren-like woman who "combs her golden hair."
  Part 2 (ans: the Holocaust [or Shoah; prompt on World War II or WWII; prompt on the Final Solution]):
    Celan's "Death Fugue" is a poem written about this event. Anne Frank's Diary of a Young Girl describes her hiding in an attic during this general event.
  Part 3 (ans: Ingeborg Bachmann):
    While living in Vienna, Celan befriended this other German-language writer. This poet of the collection Borrowed Time used experiences from her affair with Celan as the basis of her novel Malina.

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Harvard University Press now publishes the Loeb Classical Library that was first published by this company. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heinemann [or William Heinemann Ltd.]):
    Identify this British publisher whose educational wing printed Leon Comber's Writing in Asia Series and James Currey's Caribbean Writers Series. Both were modeled on this publisher's African Writers Series.
  Part 2 (ans: Abdulrazak Gurnah):
    In 1994, this author was appointed as editorial advisor to the Heinemann African Writers Series. This Zanzibar-born author of By the Sea and Paradise won the 2021 Nobel Prize in Literature.
  Part 3 (ans: Nadine Gordimer):
    The series published this author's short story collection Some Monday for Sure in 1976. This South African author is better known for novels such as The Conservationist and July's People.

[B7] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this section, the protagonist exchanges opening line suggestions with her boarder Saul Green, revealing that the sentence that opened the first Free Women section was actually fictional. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the golden notebook [accept equivalents like the title notebook of The Golden Notebook; prompt on the last notebook or similar answers]):
    Name or describe this section, which ends a novel whose other sections detail the protagonist's year in the British Communist Party and the plot of her novel Frontiers of War.
  Part 2 (ans: Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing; or Doris May Tayler]):
    This British-Zimbabwean author wrote the autobiographically-inspired The Golden Notebook.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinemann [accept Margot Heinemann; accept William Heinemann Ltd.]):
    Another major novel of the 1960s by a British Communist Party member was The Adventurers by an author with the first name Margot and this last name. A British company of this name published the first UK edition of Achebe's Things Fall Apart.

[B8] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: In this compound's main natural source, it is synthesized by the action of S-adenosyl methionine on theobromine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: caffeine [or methyltheobromine or guaraine or theine or mateine; prompt on 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine]):
    Name this alkaloid compound composed of two fused heterocycles. This compound is chemically equivalent to trimethylated xanthine, and it is extracted using supercritical carbon dioxide.
  Part 2 (ans: Emil Fischer [or Hermann Emil Louis Fischer; accept Fischer esterification]):
    The first total synthesis of caffeine was performed by this German chemist in 1895, the same year that he developed an acid-catalyzed esterification reaction that uses a carboxylic acid and an alcohol.
  Part 3 (ans: cyanoborohydride [or BH3CN-minus; accept sodium cyanoborohydride or NaBH3CN; do not accept or prompt on "borohydride"]):
    Direct N-methylation overshoots less-substituted amines ("uh-MEENS"), so they are formed via reductive amination. That reaction forms an imine ("IM-een") and immediately treats it with a weak reducing agent, such as this six-atom anion.

[B9] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work's opening movement ends on a C-sharp dominant-seventh chord, having never cadenced in the tonic of F-sharp minor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dichterliebe [DIKH-tuh-lee-buh] [accept A Poet's Love]):
    Name this piece that ends with a reprise of the coda from "Am leuchtenden Sommermorgen" [ahm LOYKH-tun-dun zaw-muh-MOR-gun] after a description of how "The old bad songs" will be buried in a "large coffin."
  Part 2 (ans: Robert (Alexander) Schumann):
    This Romantic composer wrote Dichterliebe during his "Year of Song," which was prompted by his engagement to virtuoso pianist Clara Wieck [veek].
  Part 3 (ans: (Christian Johann) Heinrich Heine):
    Dichterliebe is based on the Lyrisches Intermezzo[LOO-ri-shus in-ter-MET-zo] by this poet. Franz Schubert set some of his poems to music in the collection Schwanengesang, and Franz Liszt wrote a setting of his poem Die Lorelei [dee LOH-ruh-"lie"] .

[B10] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Jonathan Franzen wrote an English translation of this play, which ends with the protagonist being visited by the ghost of his friend Moritz who carries around his own decapitated head. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spring Awakening [or Fruhlings Erwachen]):
    Name this play by Frank Wedekind ("VAY-duh-kind") about the 14-year-old Melchior, who is sent to a reformatory after being expelled from school after writing an essay on sex, and impregnating Wendla.
  Part 2 (ans: Karl Kraus [accept The Kraus Project] (The play is The Last Days of Mankind.)):
    Franzen also translated this man's essays into English in a book titled for this author's "project." He wrote a post-apocalyptic play framed as a conversation between the "Optimist" and the "Grumbler."
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Heine ("HY-nuh")):
    Franzen's The Kraus Project includes Kraus's essay about this poet "and the Consequences." He wrote about a woman "combing her golden hair," who lures sailors to their deaths, in his poem "Die Lorelei" ("dee LOR-uh-lye").

[B11] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: During the Nazi period, this poem was officially declared written by an 'unknown author'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 'The Lorelei' [or 'Die Lorelei']):
    Name this poem, which begins 'I know not what is the reason / Why I am so sad at heart'. This poem later describes the enthralling, spellbinding melody sung by the title golden-haired figure.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Heine):
    'The Lorelei' [LAW-re-lai] is a poem by this German lyric poet, who prophetically claimed that 'where they burn books, they will ultimately burn people as well'.
  Part 3 (ans: 'Where'? [or 'Wo'[voh]]):
    Heine asked 'Shall I lie in desert reaches, / Buried by a stranger's hand?' in this poem. This poem with a one-word title was engraved on three sides of Heine's tomb in Paris.

[B12] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: A citrate of this alkaloid is an essential medicine used to treat apnea in infants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: caffeine [accept guaranine or methyltheobromine or 1,3,7-trimethylxanthine or theine]):
    Name this alkaloid drug, the most common xanthine ("zan-theen") derivative that antagonizes adenosine ("uh-DEN-oh-seen") receptors to prevent drowsiness. It is typically extracted from coffee beans.
  Part 2 (ans: chemotherapy [or treating cancer or equivalents]):
    Periwinkle plants can be used to produce vinca alkaloids, which are often used in this process due to their ability to prevent the polymerization of beta-tubulin. One such drug used in this process, known as Vincristine, is almost always fatal if accidentally injected into the spine.
  Part 3 (ans: high blood pressure [or high BP; or hypertension; or equivalents like elevated blood pressure]):
    The alkaloid reserpine can treat this medical condition in combination with hydrochlorothiazide ("hydro-chloro-thigh-uh-zyde"). This condition can also be treated with losartan or an ACE-inhibitor-thiazide combination, while an abnormal aldosterone-renin ("REE-nin") ratio may cause a resistant form of it.

[B13] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: When Voltaire, a dedicated pen-pal of this king, first met him, he took this king's pulse "just as if [he] was [this king's] first physician." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick the Great [or Frederick II; or Friedrich der Grosse; or Friedrich II; prompt on Frederick]):
    Name this Prussian king who stated that the Middle High German epic Nibelungenlied ("nee-buh-LUNG-in-leed") was "not worth a shot of powder." This "enlightened" king's dabbling in the arts also led him to write numerous flute sonatas.
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ("GUR-tuh") (The novel is Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship.)):
    This author, who didn't get along with Frederick, stated that comparing the Nibelungenlied and the Iliad is a "pernicious endeavor." One of his characters plays Hamlet in an acting troupe after being rejected by Mariane and realizes that his whole life is an "apprenticeship."
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Heine ("HY-nuh")):
    This poet asserted that a Frenchman can "scarcely get any idea" of the Nibelungenlied. Much of this author's verse, including "The North Sea" and the rest of his "Buch der Lieder" ("BOOKH dair LEE-duh"), were later set to music.

[B14] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following about the greatly underappreciated Danish poet Sophus Claussen, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isak Dinesen [or Karen Blixen; or Karen Christenze von Blixen-Finecke]):
    This author described Claussen as the only "free" Danish poet after discovering his collection Devilries as a teenager. This fellow Dane recounted her time in Kenya in the memoir Out of Africa.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Heine [or Christian Johann Heinrich Heine]):
    Claussen translated the works of a number of writers, including this one, into Danish. An 1824 poem by this writer opens, "I know not if there is a reason / Why I am so sad at heart."
  Part 3 (ans: Ecbatana [or Ecbatan]):
    Claussen's novel Valfart contains an extendedhallucinatory scene set in this city. In "You, Andrew Marvell,"Archibald MacLeish wrote of how this city's "trees / take leaf by leaf the evening strange."

[B15] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Gustav Mahler named his first symphony after this author's novel Titan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean Paul [or Johann Paul Friedrich Richter; or Jean Paul Richter]):
    Name this early German Romantic novelist who used a French pseudonym. The twins Walt and Vult in his unfinished novel The Awkward Age inspired Robert Schumann's personas Florestan and Eusebius.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    Critics like Friedrich Schlegel often compared Jean Paul's digressive novels to the books of this Irish-born author, who became a European celebrity after writing Tristram Shandy.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Heine):
    This German author loved Sterne, and considered him equal to Shakespeare. A blistering polemic by Karl Kraus blames this man for infecting German literature with the "feuilleton" [foy-TAWN] after his 1831 flight from Germany to Paris.

[B16] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Hermann Bahr's sojourn to Paris led to the importation of this genre into German-language newspapers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: feuilleton):
    Name this genre of light journalistic writing with a French name. Carl Schorske wrote of this type of writing that "the personal tint virtually obliterated the contours of the object of discourse."
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Heine):
    Karl Kraus blamed this German writer for the ascendance of the feuilleton and for the general tendency for German writers to imitate the French. While living in France, he wrote the collection Romanzero.
  Part 3 (ans: The Glass Bead Game [or Das Glasperlenspiel; or Magister Ludi]):
    This Hermann Hesse novel derides the frivolity of its time by labeling it the "Age of the Feuilleton." In this novel, Joseph Knecht is among the many students at Waldzell who try to master the title intellectual activity.

[B17] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This country's poet Julius Slowacki ("YOOL-yoos swo-VAHT-skee") wrote the autobiographical poem "My Testament," which correctly predicted the future fame of the author's work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poland [or Polska]):
    Name this country whose nationalist "Three Bards" include Slowacki, as well as Adam Mickiewicz ("ah-DOM meets-k'YEH-vitch"), who was born shortly after this country's three partitions.
  Part 2 (ans: dawn [or sunrise or daybreak; accept "Pre-Dawn"; prompt on morning; do not accept or prompt on "day"]):
    The third of the "Three Bards," Zygmunt Krasinski, wrote a poem predicting Polish glory that is set before this time. Traditionally, aubades ("oh-BAHDS") are poems set during this time.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Heine ("HIGH-nuh") (The epic is The Silesian Weavers.)):
    This author wrote a poem about two knights named Crapulinski and Waschlapski ("vosh-LOP-skee") who fight the "tyrant Muscovite" for Polish freedom. The line "Their gloom-enveloped eyes are tearless" begins this author's poem about weavers in Silesia ("sigh-LEE-zhuh").

[B18] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The unresolved chord at the end of this composer's song "Im wunderschonen Monat Mai" suggests that there is more to come in the story, paving the way for the rest of the song cycle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Schumann):
    Name this German composer who wrote the cycle Dichterliebe in 1840, which is often called his "Year of Lieder."
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Heine):
    Schumann composed two cycles generically titled Liederkreis in 1840, one of which was set to poems by Joseph von Eichendorff and the other of which was set to poems by this Germanic poet. Dichterliebe was also set to poems by this man.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Borodin [or Alexander Porfiryevich Borodin]):
    Heine's poem "Aus meinen Tranen spriessen," or "From my tears," was used both by Schumann in Dichterliebe and by this Russian composer in translation. His other art songs include "Song of the Dark Forest," and he also wrote a Petite Suite for solo piano.

[B19] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: You could construct one of these things by taking a strip of paper, twisting it half-way, and taping the ends together. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mobius strip):
    Name this famous surface in topology that seemingly only has one side.
  Part 2 (ans: Heine-Borel theorem):
    Two mathematicians name this topological theorem about metric spaces, which says that a subspace is compact if and only if it is closed and bounded.
  Part 3 (ans: crossing number):
    In knot theory, this term is defined as the number of double points in a knot, where the knot passes over itself. A trefoil is the only knot that has a value of 3 for this number.

[B20] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author described a deadly, beautiful maiden in "The Lorelei." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heinrich Heine):
    Name this German author of Atta Troll and the Romanzero.
  Part 2 (ans: Hebrew Melodies [or Hebraische Melodien]):
    This third book of the Romanzero describes a "mysterious stir and whisper" that "passes strangely" through the house as the steward moves through the silence lighting lamps. It includes a poem about Jehuda ben Halevy, a "star and torch to guide his time / light and beacon of his nation."
  Part 3 (ans: Yiddish):
    Hannah Arendt praised Heine's integration of this language into German literature, identifying him as the beginning of the "hidden tradition" of the schlemiel.

[B21] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a novel by this author, a Chinese doctor agrees to pay a house visit to the protagonist's sick son Victor, but an Indian doctor doesn't, reinforcing the title inferior social status of Adah Ofili. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buchi Emecheta):
    Name this female Nigerian author of The Bride Price, The Second-Class Citizen, and The Joys of Motherhood.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinemann):
    In 1980, this publisher included a new edition of Buchi Emecheta's The Joys of Motherhood among its "African Writers Series," which has played a key role in building international exposure for African literature.
  Part 3 (ans: Things Fall Apart):
    The first novel to be picked up by Heinemann's African Writers' Series is this one, in which an oracle decrees that Ikemefuna must die, and so his guardian Okonkwo helps kill him.

[B22] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem, which relates a legend that first appeared in Clemens Brentano's lay "Zu Bacharach am Rheine", describes a figure who "combs her golden hair" and "sings a song, passing time". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Lorelei" [or "Die Lorelei"]):
    Name this 1822 poem in which the "dulcet-voiced power" of the title woman causes the waves to "devour / both boat and man, by and by".
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Heine [or Christian Johann Heinrich Heine]):
    "The Lorelei" was written by this lyric poet of Atta Troll, whose Buch der Lieder was a popular source for Romantic composers looking to set poems.
  Part 3 (ans: Germany: A Winter's Tale [or Deutschland. Ein Wintermarchen; prompt on partial answer]):
    Heine mocks the society that spent hundreds of years constructing Koln Cathedral, describes being stalked by an axe-carrying "special devil", and visits Frederick Barbarossa in a dream in various parts of this satirical epic.

[B23] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: Part of the proof of this theorem can be used to show that any compact subset of a Hausdorff space is closed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heine-Borel theorem):
    Name this theorem that states that subsets of Euclidean space are compact if and only if they are closed and bounded.
  Part 2 (ans: finite subcover [prompt on "subcover"]):
    The actual definition of compact is that every cover of the space has one of these.
  Part 3 (ans: convergent [accept word forms]):
    The Arzela-Ascoli theorem says that a bounded equicontinuous sequence will have this kind of subsequence. This property for a sequence roughly means that it gets arbitrarily close to some point.

[B24] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Science
     Leadin: Continuous functions whose domain have this property are necessarily equicontinuous. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: compactness):
    That fact can be proven because a finite epsilon-net can always be constructed covering a space of this type. A continuous function whose domain has this property also necessarily attains its supremum and infimum.
  Part 2 (ans: Heine-Borel Theorem):
    If you're working in everyone's favorite metric space, Rn, then a set being compact is equivalent to its being closed and bounded, according to this theorem.
  Part 3 (ans: Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem):
    This similar theorem states that in Rn, bounded sequences in closed sets necessarily have convergent subsequences. It follows from Heine-Borel and the fact that compact and sequentially compact are equivalent in a metric space.

[B25] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote "Out of my great woe / I make little songs," and began another poem: "I cannot explain the sadness / That's fallen on my breast. / An old, old, fable haunts me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Christian Johann) Heinrich Heine):
    Name this poet whose drama Almansor provides the famous quote "Where they burn books they will also burn people."
  Part 2 (ans: gold [or golden; or goldenes]):
    In his lyric poem "Die Lorelei," Heine fxates on this recurring color shared by the siren's jewelry, hair, and comb. A poem by a diferent author claims that "nothing" this color "can stay".
  Part 3 (ans: The North Sea [or Die Nordsee]):
    Heine ended his Book of Songs with this group of poems consisting of two "cycles" that mocks the antiquated Greek gods in "The Song of the Oceanides" and ends with the poem "In Port".
