=== STOCK CLUES: Percy Bysshe Shelley ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 42 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - In a preface, this author describes the protagonist of one of his plays as "exempt from the taints of ambition," unlike Satan in Paradise Lost. [PWR]
  - In one of this author's plays, a nobleman who holds a feast to celebrate the deaths of his sons in Salamanca is discovered dead in a pine tree.
  - A fourth act this author appended to another of his plays features a masque for the protagonist's wedding to Asia and a declaration that "this is alone (*) Life, Joy, Empire and Victory" by Demogorgon. [PWR]
  - This author's most-performed play, about the death of the tyrannical count Francesco at the hands of his daughter Beatrice, is titled The Cenci .
  - In a closet drama by this author, Hercules frees the protagonist from being chained to a precipice.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Prometheus Unbound. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - A poem by this author notes that "a dream has power to poison sleep," but "one wandering thought pollutes the day." A poem by this author compares humans to "clouds that veil the midnight moon... / soon / Night closes round, and... are lost for ever." The speaker of a poem by this author claims that "a heavy weight of hours has chain'd and bow'd" him, though he was once (*) "tameless, and swift, and proud." In a poem by this author, the speaker urges the title concept to "drive my dead thoughts over the universe" to "quicken a new birth." This author of "Mutability" illustrated similar themes of change with the line "if Winter comes, can Spring be far behind" from a poem addressed to the "breath of Autumn's being." For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of the "Ode to the West Wind." [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on Shelley]
  - In a poem by this author, a figure who says her father is "weak and gray", exclaims that "the dust of death is piled / Over every one but me". [PWR]
  - A work by this author that was originally titled for the "Golden City" provides another work's original epigraph "Hope is strong; Justice and Truth their winged child have found". [PWR]
  - One poem by this author begins "An old, mad, blind, despised, and dying King".
  - In another poem by this author, a figure who rides "on a white horse, splashed with blood" declares "I AM (*) GOD, AND KING, AND LAW!". [PWR]
  - That poem by this author ends with the line "Ye are many - they are few" and was written in the wake of the Peterloo Massacre.
  - For 10 points, name this author of England in 1819, and The Mask of Anarchy , who wrote about a "traveller from an antique land" in Ozymandias. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Frankenstein ghost story contest [or descriptions of a contest and any of Frankenstein, "The Vampyre," the Villa Diodati, Mary Shelley, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Lord Byron, George Gordon Byron, John William Polidori, or ghost stories until each is read; prompt on Year Without a Summer until read by asking "what specific event during it?"; prompt on writing contests or equivalents]
  - Note to moderator: Read the answerline carefully.
  - Note to players: Description acceptable.
  - A short poem written for this event describes how "Helen clung to her brother's arm, / And her own spasm made her shake." The narrator of a work written for this event is instructed to throw a ring into the Bay of Eleusis  by Augustus Darvell, who dies in a Turkish cemetery as a stork flies away.
  - That "Fragment of a Novel" written for this event was adapted into a story whose central figure was named after a rakish villain in Caroline Lamb's Glenarvon.
  - This event occurred after a group of friends read the anthology Fantasmagoriana  at the Villa Diodati near Lake Geneva during the Year Without a Summer.
  - This event resulted in John William Polidori's vampire story about Lord Ruthven and a novel in which Captain Walton's crew sees a giant man in the Arctic.
  - For 10 points, identify this 1816 competition that produced a Gothic novel by Mary Shelley. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on Shelley]
  - In a poem by this author, a figure is accused of "fumbling with his palsied hands" by "maniac maid" who says her name is Hope but "looked more like Despair." A description of "An old, mad, blind, despised, and dying King" opens a poem by this author, whose speaker promises that a "glorious Phantom may / burst" from an army's graves. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem by this author sees the phrase "I AM KING, AND GOD, and LAW" inscribed on the brow of the title figure, who (*) tramples over a country on horseback. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a work by this author receives "visions of poesy" during a stay in Italy, and delivers a rousing speech for his countrymen to "Rise like lions" in response to an 1819 cavalry charge.
  - For 10 points, name this author compelled by the Peterloo Massacre to write "England, 1819" and "The Masque of Anarchy." [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - The Beat poet Gregory Corso, who Bruce Cook described as an "urchin" version of this poet, wrote of having a "madness" for Chatterton, Rimbaud and this writer in his poem "I Am 25." Corso's ashes were buried at the foot of this poet's grave. [PWR]
  - Near the beginning of "Kaddish," Allen Ginsberg recalls reading aloud the "last triumphant stanzas" of a poem by this author, referencing a passage in which this poet commands "seek shelter in the shadow of the tomb" after urging "go thou to (*) Rome." According to Ginsberg, a young Jack Kerouac frequently quoted the line "I weep for [the title character] - he is dead!" from this poet's pastoral elegy on the death of John Keats.
  - For 10 points, the Beats were heavily influenced by Romantic poets like what author of "Adonais" [add-uh-NAY-iss]? [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - This poet asks "When will return the glory of your prime?" in a poem that begins by addressing "O World!
  - O Life! [PWR]
  - O Time!" This poet describes "The everlasting universe of things / Flows through the mind, and rolls its rapid waves" in a poem that says "Thou hast a voice, great Mountain." This poet of "A Lament" compares the addressee of one poem to "the bright hair uplifted from the head / Of some fierce (*) Maenad" and tells the subject to "Drive my dead thoughts over the universe." This poet describes "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone / Stand in the desert" in a poem whose speaker reads an inscription that commands "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this poet of "Mount Blanc," "Ode to the West Wind," and "Ozymandias." [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - A poem by this author cites dead violets and roses to argue that because of "thy thoughts, when thou art gone, / Love itself shall slumber on." This poet compared a subject to a rose whose scent is stolen by "heavy-winged thieves," and says that it "lovest, but ne'er knew love's sad satiety." This poet described an entity that makes night "the dome of a vast sepulchre." This poet of "Music, when Soft Voices die" asks a creature to "Teach me half the (*) gladness / That thy brain must know." This poet asked, "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" and opened a poem with the line "Hail to thee, blithe spirit!" In a poem by him, an inscription reads "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this poet of "Ode to the West Wind," "To a Skylark" and "Ozymandias." [PWR,GIVE]

[T9] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - In one poem by this author "the green lizard, and the golden snake, like unimprisoned flames," who "out of their trance awake," are used to describe the passing of the seasons during which "grief returns with the revolving year." This author states that "some yet live, treading the thorny road, / Which leads, through toil and hate, to Fame's serene abode" in a poem that calls for the "most musical of mourners" to "weep again!" That poem by him describes a dead man's soul that "like a star, / beacons from the abode where the Eternal are." He described "The hand that mock'd" and "the heart that fed" in a poem whose speaker encounters an inscription that reads "Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of "Adonais" and "Ozymandias". [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - The speaker of a work by this poet wonders whether "a sea of fire envelope[d] once this silent snow" before musing, "None can reply-all seems eternal now." The addressee of that ode is told that it can "repeal large codes of fraud and woe" in the third section, which opens, "Some say that gleams of a remoter world visit the soul in sleep, that death is slumber." This author of a poem that muses on the "Ravine of Arve" also wrote of a "dome of many-colour'd glass" in a long work about a man whose "fate and fame" echoes "till the (*) Future dares Forget the Past." The lines "the everlasting universe of things flows through the mind" open a poem he wrote in the Vale of Chamouni about the title landform, which is compared to human imagination. [PWR]
  - An elegiac poem by this author of "Mont Blanc" mourns a man whose soul, "like a star, beacons from the abode where the Eternal are." For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet who commemorated his friend John Keats in the poem Adonais. [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - In one work, this author wrote, "I vowed that I would dedicate my powers / To thee and thine - have I not kept the vow?" That poem tells the addressee of "one who worships thee...
  - Whom, Spirit fair, thy spells did bind / To fear himself, and love mankind." Another of this author's poems describes Murder, Fraud, and the title figure, before instructing "shake your (*) chains to earth, like dew... ye are many - they are few." One of this author's poems is about a figure whose "fate and fame shall be / An echo and a light unto eternity," and repeats, "O, weep for [the title figure]." This author of Hymn to Intellectual Beauty and The Masque of Anarchy wrote "An Elegy on the Death of John Keats," as well as a poem that asks, "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" For 10 points, name this poet of Adonais and Ode to the West Wind. [PWR,GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on Shelley]
  - One of this author's poems declares "Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass / Stains the white radiance of Eternity" and claims "Flowers, ruins, statues, music, words, are weak / The glory they transfuse with fitting truth to seek" in a series of stanzas beginning "Go thou to Rome." This author depicted a figure marked by the words, "'I AM GOD, AND KING, AND LAW!" in a poem imploring Englishmen not to resist soldiers massacring them, which ends "Ye are many - they are few." This author wrote a poem declaring "Naught may endure but (*) Mutability," as well an elegy which repeatedly laments "Weep for" the title character - "he is dead!" This author of "The Mask of Anarchy" mourned the death of John Keats in his poem "Adonais." For 10 points, name this English poet of "To a Skylark" and "Ode to the West Wind." [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Percy Bysshe Shelley
  - In one novel by this writer, the title character, Wolfstein, teams up with a man named Ginotti to seek the elixir of eternal life. [PWR]
  - This author of St. [PWR]
  - Irvyne, or the Rosicrucian dedicated to Harriet Westbrook a "philosophical poem" that opens with the lines "How wonderful is Death/ Death and his brother Sleep!" entitled Queen Mab and a play in which Beatrice plots the murder of her father, Count Francesco. [PWR]
  - This author recalled how, "while yet a boy I sought for ghosts," in a poem that describes "the awful shadow of some (*) unseen Power," while another of his poems ends with Jupiter destroyed by Demogorgon, leaving the title character and Ione to observe the triumph of mankind.
  - This author of The Cenci ended one poem by noting that the soul of the title character "beacons from the abode where the Eternal are," while another ends by asking, "If winter comes, can spring be far behind?" For 10 points, identify this poet who wrote Hymn to Intellectual Beauty, Prometheus Unbound, Adonais, and "Ode to the West Wind." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An essay by this author refers to history as "that cyclic poem written by Time upon the memories of men." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Percy Shelley [or Percy Bysshe Shelley]):
    Name this author of the essay "A Defence of Poetry." This poet also wrote "To a Skylark."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Love Peacock):
    Shelley wrote "A Defence of Poetry" in response to this author's essay "The Four Ages of Poetry." Shelley is the likely model of Scythrop Glowry, the protagonist of this author's novel Nightmare Abbey.
  Part 3 (ans: legislators [accept "Poets are the unacknowledged legislators of the world"]):
    Shelley ended "A Defence of Poetry" with the oft-quoted declaration that "poets are the unacknowledged" these people "of the world." Exact term required.

[B2] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel satirizes its author's contemporaries as characters that include Ferdinando Flosky, Mr. Listless, and Reverend Larynx. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nightmare Abbey):
    Name this novel by Thomas Love Peacock, which parodies Gothic literature and details Scythrop's love triangle with Marionetta and Miss Toobad.
  Part 2 (ans: Childe Harold's Pilgrimage):
    In Nightmare Abbey, Mr. Cypress mostly speaks in quotes from this poem by Lord Byron, titled for a brooding young nobleman's travels through Europe.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    The character of Scythrop in Nightmare Abbey was loosely based on this friend of Peacock, who wrote the poems "Ode to the West Wind" and "To a Skylark."

[B3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This couple's clasped hands were cast in plaster and sculpted by Harriet Hosmer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Barrett Browning and Robert Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett Browning or Elizabeth Moulton-Barrett in place of "Elizabeth Browning"; or the Brownings]):
    Name this couple, half of which was frequently portrayed by Katherine Cornell in a Rudolf Breiser play partly titled for Wimpole Street. This couple owned the dog Flush at the Casa Guidi, whose windows title a poem by one of them.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley and Percy Bysshe Shelley [or Mary Godwin in place of "Mary Shelley"; accept the Shelleys]):
    Robert Browning refused the presidency of a society named for part of this couple. At the Villa Diodati, one of these two people wrote a "Fragment of a Ghost Story" while the other wrote Frankenstein.
  Part 3 (ans: Wendy Cope):
    This author wrote a poem "To My Husband," the poet Lachlan Mackinnon. This author of the "Waste Land Limericks" presented parodies by the fictional Jason Strugnell in her collection Making Cocoa for Kingsley Amis.

[B4] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A 1913 article by Edward Payson Morton claims that Robert Aylett, Richard Fanshawe, Henry More, Eirenaeus Philalethes ("eye-ruh-NEE-us phil-uh-LETH-eez"), and Samuel Woodford were the only five authors in the entire 17th century who used this English verse form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spenserian stanza [prompt on Spenser or Spenserian; reject "Spenserian sonnet"]):
    Name this verse form that consists of eight iambic pentameter ("eye-AM-bik pen-TAM-uh-ter") lines rhymed ABABBCBC followed by an alexandrine rhymed C.
  Part 2 (ans: The Faerie Queene):
    Edmund Spenser first used his namesake stanza form in this epic poem. In the first of its six books, Una is accompanied by the Redcrosse Knight.
  Part 3 (ans: The Revolt of Islam (by Percy Bysshe Shelley)):
    This epic poem in Spenserian stanzas was originally titled for its protagonists, Laon and Cythna, who overthrow the tyrant Othman in an allegory for the French Revolution.

[B5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Robert Browning's "The Lost Leader" blasts this writer for his turn towards conservatism, which is evidenced by his "Ode to Duty." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    Name this writer who related his political disillusionment through the story of "The Solitary" in his long poem, The Excursion.
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This poet lamented Wordsworth's abandonment of "songs consecrate to truth and liberty" in his poem "To Wordsworth." He gave voice to his own political ideals in such poems as "Ode to the West Wind."
  Part 3 (ans: the egotistical sublime):
    In a letter to Richard Woodhouse, Keats coined this critical two-word phrase for the way Wordsworth's "poetical character...stands alone." Keats also called himself a "chameleon poet" in contrast to this type of genius.

[B6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The pretext for hosting one of these events is to gather material for an author to write his latest novel, The Unseen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: seances in Blithe Spirit):
    Name these events. The host of these events, Madame Arcati, avoids eating red meat before them because it "sometimes has an odd effect."
  Part 2 (ans: Noel Coward [or Sir Noel Pierce Coward]):
    This British playwright, who wrote about Elyot and Amanda using the code word "Solomon Isaacs" to stop their arguments in Private Lives, wrote about the seances in Blithe Spirit.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Coward titled Blithe Spirit after a phrase in "To a Skylark," which was written by this Romantic poet, who also wrote the play Prometheus Unbound.

[B7] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about meditations upon death as "lying down":
  Part 1 (ans: "Thanatopsis"):
    This meditation on death by William Cullen Bryant declares that "thou shalt lie down / With patriarchs of the infant world".
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This poet's "Stanzas Written in Dejection, Near Naples" states "I could lie down, like a tired child...till death like sleep might steal on me". This author eulogized a fellow poet in "Adonais".
  Part 3 (ans: Urn-Burial [or Hydriotaphia] (by Thomas Browne.)):
    A passage of this book remarks that "since our longest sun sets at right declensions," it therefore "cannot be long before we lie down in darkness". This book describes man as a "Noble Animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave" and was paired with the author's The Garden of Cyrus.

[B8] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes a "sea-worm" as "grotesque, slimed, dumb, indifferent." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Convergence of the Twain"):
    Name this Thomas Hardy poem set "In a solitude of the sea / Deep from human vanity." Its lines are arranged to form the shape of an ocean liner's prow in reference to its subject matter, the sinking of the Titanic.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This poet used his trademark "sprung rhythm" technique in his poem about the "Wreck of the Deutschland ("DOYTCH-lont")," which is dedicated "To the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns."
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This poet said to have predicted his death by shipwreck with the lines "My spirit's bark is driven, / Far from the shore" in his poem "Adonais" ("ad-oh-NAY-iss"). He also wrote "Ode to the West Wind," "To a Skylark," and "Ozymandias."

[B9] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This collection opens with a poem whose speaker fails to find the right words for a poem to tell a woman he loves her, only to be told by his Muse, "Fool, look in thy heart, and write." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Astrophil and Stella [or Astrophel and Stella]):
    Name this collection whose dedicatee is believed to be Penelope Devereux. The speaker of another poem in this collection notes "With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies!"
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Philip Sidney):
    Astrophil and Stella was written by this Elizabethan poet of "The Defense of Poesy." This man detailed the brief turmoil of Basilius' kingdom in The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Sidney's "The Defense of Poesy" is not to be confused with this much later poet's essay "The Defense of Poetry." Poems by this man include "Adonais" and "Ozymandias."

[B10] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem inspired by this event was first published in 1790 as a Pindaric ode but was revised intermittently until its final publication in 1834. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the death of Thomas Chatterton):
    Identify this event that inspired a John Keats sonnet describing its subject as a "half-blown flow'ret which cold blasts amate."
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet wrote of Chatterton's "sleepless soul," and of how the lives of poets "begin in gladness" but end in "despondency and madness" in his poem "Resolution and Independence."
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This other poet described Chatterton, who "rose pale, his solemn agony... not yet faded from him," in a pastoral elegy lamenting John Keats's early death titled Adonais ("AD-oh-NAY-iss").

[B11] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay argues that most criminals are not "marvelous Macbeths or villainous Vautrins" but what any "respectable, commonplace" person would be if they did not have enough to eat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Soul of Man Under Socialism"):
    Name this essay that uses the punishments for crimes against property and against people as evidence that "man's personality has been absorbed by his possessions." This essay also asks "Who taught them the trick of tyranny?" while discussing public corruption of art.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar Wilde):
    "The Soul of Man Under Socialism" is an essay by this author of "De Profundis." His only novel is The Picture of Dorian Gray.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    In "The Soul of Man," Wilde claimed that "the note of rebellion is sometimes too strong" in this poet's work, which includes a poem that ends "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?"

[B12] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author, obviously not expecting the oeuvre of poets Lindsay or St. Vincent Millay, wrote that "Pure reason and dispassionate truth would be perfectly ridiculous in verse, as we may judge by versifying one of Euclid's demonstrations." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Love Peacock):
    Identify this author of The Four Ages of Poetry, who wrote the novels Gryll Grange, Maid Marian, and Melincourt, in which an Orang Utan is elected to Parliament.
  Part 2 (ans: Nightmare Abbey):
    Peacock is perhaps better known for this novella mocking the Romantic movement. Like his novels Headlong Hall and Crochet Castle, much of the text is satirical dialogue, in this case centred on the philosophies of the Toobad and Glowry families.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Scythrop Glowry is almost certainly modelled on this close friend of Peacock's, who wrote A Defence of Poetry in response. He also wrote "Ode to the West Wind" and "Ozymandias."

[B13] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Although a character in this play is invited to perform a seance so that a man can gain material for his novel about a spiritualist, she actually does manage to conjure the spirit of his first wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blithe Spirit):
    Name this play in which Madame Arcati realizes that it is Charles' maid Edith, and not herself, who is conjuring up the ghosts of his dead wives after his second wife Ruth dies from a booby-trapped car.
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Noel Coward took the title Blithe Spirit from "To a Skylark," a poem by this British writer who described "vast and trunkless legs of stone" in "Ozymandias."
  Part 3 (ans: tiptoe offstage [prompt on "going offstage" or equivalents]):
    At the end of Private Lives, once Elyot and Amanda see Victor and Sybil bickering in a way that makes them seem suitable to each other, they then perform this specific action, which is commonly done in Coward's plays.

[B14] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem addressed to this bird concludes by praising "the wise, who soar, but never roam; / true to the kindred points of Heaven and Home." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: skylark (s) [accept "To the Skylark" or "To a Skylark"; prompt on "larks"]):
    Name this bird that William Wordsworth called an "ethereal minstrel." In another poem, this bird is said to be a "Poet hidden / in the light of thought" that lets out "profuse strains of unpremeditated art."
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    The poem "To a Skylark" was written by this Romantic poet and husband of an author named Mary. He asked "if Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" at the end of his "Ode to the West Wind."
  Part 3 (ans: "Music, When Soft Voices Die"):
    This eight-line poem by Shelley, which is titled for its first five words, states that the title entity "vibrates in the memory." The second and final stanza of this poem describes rose leaves "heap'd for the beloved's bed" before declaring that "Love itself shall slumber on."

[B15] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet claimed that poets were "the unacknowledged legislators of the world" in his "A Defence of Poetry". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Identify this Romantic poet of "To a Skylark" and "Ozymandias".
  Part 2 (ans: Prometheus Unbound):
    This Shelley closet drama riffs on a play by Aeschylus. The title character of this play is in love with Asia and this play opens with that character surrounded by Ione and Panthea.
  Part 3 (ans: The Revolt of Islam):
    This Shelley poem was originally published as Laon and Cythna. Mary Shelley wrote that the aged man that rescues Laon from prison in this poem was modelled on Doctor Lind, who had supported Shelley in his time at Eton.

[B16] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Like many of its author's works, this play ends with a character tiptoeing out to get away from a disagreeable situation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blithe Spirit):
    Name this 1941 comedy by Noel Coward in which the eccentric Madame Arcati inadvertently summons the ghost of an author's temperamental ex-wife, leading to all sorts of hijinks.
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    The title of Blithe Spirit comes from a line in this poet's "To a Skylark", which begins "Hail to thee, blithe Spirit! Bird thou never wert".
  Part 3 (ans: Private Lives):
    This Coward play deals with a divorced couple honeymooning with new spouses at a hotel, but discovering that they both still have feelings for each other. A love scene in the second act of this play was judged to be risque by British censors.

[B17] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: This book opens with a "Polemical Introduction" in which the author states that popularity and quality have no correlation, necessitating the title discipline. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anatomy of Criticism):
    Name this book composed of four essays that define "a theory of symbols" and "a theory of genres" to analyze literature.
  Part 2 (ans: Northrop Frye [or Herman Northrop Frye]):
    This Canadian literary critic penned the influential Anatomy of Criticism. This major proponent of archetypal criticism began his career with an analysis of Blake called Fearful Symmetry.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    In Anatomy of Criticism, Frye invites the reader to imagine promoting or demoting Shakespeare, Milton, and this Romantic poet of "Ozymandias."

[B18] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a mild critique of imperialism and rapid scientific progress, this essay observes that man, "having enslaved the elements, himself remains a slave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Defence of Poetry"):
    Identify this essay, a response to an article by Thomas Love Peacock, which ends by hailing practitioners of the title activity as the "trumpets which sing to battle, and feel not what they inspire," the "hierophants of an unapprehended inspiration," and the "unacknowledged legislators of the world."
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This author of "A Defence of Poetry" tried to abide by its precepts in long poems like "Mont Blanc" and shorter lyrics like "To a Skylark" and "Ode to the West Wind."
  Part 3 (ans: "Hymn to Intellectual Beauty"):
    Shelley explains that poets and sages invoke the notions of "Demon," "Ghost," and "Heaven" in their encounters with the title creative force of this 1817 poem, addressed to "the awful shadow of some unseen Power" that "dost consecrate / With thine own hues all thou dost shine upon / Of human thought or form."

[B19] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One poem with this title claims that its addressee "in every spot beneath the smiling sun / sees where the springs of living waters lie" and calls that man a "true bard and holy!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "To Wordsworth"):
    Give the title of that poem, also shared by a sonnet that opens with the line "Poet of Nature, thou hast wept to know / That things depart which never may return" and describes its author's grieving at the addressee's death.
  Part 2 (ans: Felicia Hemans [or Felicia Dorothea Hemans]):
    The first of those "To Wordsworths" was written by this author of "The Homes of England", a woman who is likely most famous for a poem opening "The boy stood on the burning deck" called "Casabianca".
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    The other "To Wordsworth" was written by this Romantic poet, who asked "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?"at the end of his "Ode to the West Wind".

[B20] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In this play, Beatrice hires Olimpio and Marzio to kill her father Francesco. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Cenci):
    Name this play which ends with Beatrice walking to her execution.
  Part 2 (ans: Prometheus Unbound):
    In this play by the author of The Cenci, the title Titan is reunited with Asia after being freed by Hercules.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    The Cenci and Prometheus Unbound are by this poet, who also wrote "Adonais" and "Ozymandias."

[B21] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play begins with a newlywed man on a terrace telling his wife that she isn't as pretty as his ex-wife and that he can't stand her mother, after which another couple appears on the terrace. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Private Lives):
    Name this play in which the honeymooners and ex-spouses Elyot and Amanda run into each other at a hotel in France.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Noel Peirce Coward):
    Private Lives is a play by this author who wrote about Charles Condomine in Blithe Spirit.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Blithe Spirit takes its name from this poet who wrote, "Hail to thee, blithe spirit! Bird thou never wert," in his "To a Skylark"

[B22] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Characters in this play constantly quote from Love's Whirlwind, and it ends with a spirited argument about whether the Rue Saint-Honore connects to the Place de la Concorde. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hay Fever):
    Name this play in which the Bliss family has four houseguests.
  Part 2 (ans: Blithe Spirit):
    Noel Coward, the author of Hay Fever, also wrote this play in which Madame Arcati summons the spirit of Charles's deceased wife Elvira.
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Blithe Spirit takes its title from this Romantic poet's "To a Skylark."

[B23] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author responded to the Peterloo Massacre by writing "The Masque of Anarchy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    Name this English poet of "Hymn to Intellectual Beauty," who eulogized John Keats in his poem "Adonais."
  Part 2 (ans: "A Defense of Poetry"):
    Shelley wrote this essay in response to Thomas Love Peacock's "The Four Ages of Poetry." It argues that poetry improves society by enlarging the imagination, and calls poets "the unacknowledged legislators of the world."
  Part 3 (ans: The Revolt of Islam):
    Shelley reacted to the French Revolution by writing this poem in twelve cantos, in which Laon and Cythna rebel against the king of Argolis.

[B24] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The main figure of this poem flees with a pain comparable to the agony of an eagle that clutches "the green serpent" to its breast, and it later proclaims "Art and eloquence... are frail and vain." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Alastor, or the Spirit of Solitude"):
    Name this poem about a man who rejects an "Arab maiden" for an imagined "veiled maid" before wishing that a dream of a powerful "dark magician" who can control the world was reality.
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    "Alastor" was written by this author of "To a Skylark," "Ode to the West Wind," and "Ozymandias."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Love Peacock):
    Shelley presented the unnamed manuscript of "Alastor" to this friend of his. Shelley wrote his "A Defence of Poetry" in response to this man's The Four Ages of Poetry, and he also wrote Nightmare Abbey.

[B25] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: He discussed an "Oxford Love Story" in Zuleika Dobson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Beerbohm):
    Name this British author who also wrote about a writer who makes a pact with a devil to time travel to the British Museum reading room in 1997 in "Enoch Soames."
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    In "Enoch Soames," Enoch calls this poet "second-rate" and claims that he possesses "a deadly evenness." This poet wrote of a pedestal proclaiming "look on my works, ye mighty, and despair" in "Ozymandias."
  Part 3 (ans: Lytton Strachey):
    Beerbohm also wrote an essay named after this British author, who discussed Florence Nightingale and Chinese Gordon in his satire Eminent Victorians
