=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Caedmon ===
(Questions where 'Caedmon' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Old English [do not accept or prompt on "Middle English" or "English"] (the first line refers to the Widsith)
  - A 143-line poem in this language is structured as a metered list of kings, including "Caesar ruled the Greeks," after mentioning its title scop, or poet.
  - A five-line poem called one man's "Death Song" is the best-attested poem in this language, ahead of a nine-line one that opens by honoring the "guardian of heaven." A poem in this language describes a gift of eight horses with golden bridles, including one with a jeweled saddle, and opens by detaili
  - This language was used by an illiterate cowherd to compose Caedmon's Hymn.
  - A funeral at the seashore opens a poem in this language whose central hero partners with Wiglaf to slay a dragon and defends the mead-hall Heorot [HAIR-oht].
  - For 10 points, name this language used to write Beowulf.

[TM2] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: crucifixion of Jesus Christ [accept "death of Christ" or equivalents]
  - A D.H.
  - Lawrence poem compares this event to two tortoises having sex and wonders why this event occurred instead of allowing man to be "rounded off, and finished in ourselves".
  - In one of the Holy Sonnets, the speaker questions the fate of the world (+) by asking "What if this present were the world's last night?" in regards to this event, but reassures the reader that "foulness only is a sign of rigour".
  - The speaker of a poem by Christina Rossetti wonders how the Sun and Moon "hid their faces in a starless sky" during it (*) and yet the speaker remains unmoved.
  - That poem calls its main participant "Greater than Moses" and asks him to "smite a rock".
  - A old English poem possibly by Caedmon sees a tree explain to the narrator his unworthiness to be used in this event.
  - The Dream of the Rood tells the story of, for 10 points, what event that took place on Good Friday?

[TM3] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Old English [prompt on "English", do NOT accept "Middle English"]
  - The oldest preserved poem in this language was apparently composed by an illiterate cowherd who learned to compose verse in a dream.
  - Another poem written in this language is narrated by a dreamer who speaks to a piece of wood that praises the glory of God after it is used in the crucifixion.
  - Caedmon's Hymn and The Dream of the Rood are written in this language.
  - A different work written in this language details how the title figure's sword is (*) melted by the blood of a woman who is defeated when the protagonist dives into a lake and slays her.
  - In that work in this language, a descendant of Cain continuously attacks the mead hall Heorot, which was constructed by King Hrothgar.
  - For 10 points, identify this language used to write Beowulf.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Much of the earliest surviving literature from the British Isles is in this language or in Latin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English]):
    Name this language used by the poets Caedmon ("KAD-mun") and Cynewulf ("KOO-nay-wolf"), which was also used to write the epic Beowulf.
  Part 2 (ans: hymns [accept "Caedmon's Hymn"; accept Olney Hymns]):
    Caedmon is known for an extant nine-line poem of this type written to "honour / heaven- kingdom's Ward." The later authors John Newton and William Cowper ("Cooper") wrote a collection of these poems named for the town of Olney.
  Part 3 (ans: Bede [or Saint Bede; or the Venerable Bede]):
    This writer is the namesake of an Old English "Death Song," which states "before the unavoidable journey," no one is wiser than he who ponders "good and evil within his soul."

[BM2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A book collecting these texts begins with an analysis of Caedmon's Genesis and ends with eight lines printed in red that state, "I started making maps when I was small." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: prefaces [accept preface to Lyrical Ballads; accept The Book of Prefaces; prompt on essays]):
    Name these kinds of texts anthologized in a book by Alasdair Gray. William Wordsworth wrote one for Lyrical Ballads that calls poetry the "spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings."
  Part 2 (ans: Glasgow):
    The last lines of The Book of Prefaces come from Gray's novel Lanark ("LAN-urk"), which is set in this city and its hellish parallel, Unthank. Shuggie Bain and How Late It Was, How Late are also set here.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Thomas Urquhart [prompt on "Sir Thomas's Logopandocy"]):
    A story by Gray takes the form of the diary of this Scotsman, who proposes healing mankind using a universal language. In real life, he explored similar themes in 1653's Logopandecteision ("LO-go-pan-deck-TAY-see-on") and translated Rabelais into English.

[BM3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the poem Elene (eh-LAY-nuh), a character is renamed Cyriacus after finding three of these objects underground. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: crosses [or crucifixes or the True Cross; accept, but do NOT reveal, roods or rod or roda]):
    Name these objects, which proclaim "I appear iridescent; my form is shining now" in a riddle by Tatwine (TAT-ween-uh). One of these objects narrates the second section of a poem found in the Vercelli Codex and usually attributed to Caedmon (KAD-mun) or Cynewulf (KIN-ee-wulf).
  Part 2 (ans: The Dream of the Rood):
    This Old English poem is preserved in the Vercelli Codex. This poem imagines the story of the crucifixion from the perspective of the cross, which is covered in gems.
  Part 3 (ans: alliteration [or alliterative verse; prompt on assonance or consonance]):
    The Dream of the Rood uses this device to underpin its poetic meter. Beowulf also uses this device, which forms patterns using syllables starting with similar sounds.

[BM4] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: One of the four surviving manuscripts of poetry in this language ended up, for unknown reasons, in the Italian town of Vercelli ("ver-CHELL-ee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English]):
    Name this language whose other poetic manuscripts include the Exeter Book. Beowulf was written in this language.
  Part 2 (ans: Nowell Codex [or Cotton MS Vitellius A XV]):
    Perhaps the best-known Old English poetic manuscript is this codex, which contains the only copy of Beowulf as well as a translation of Judith. The edges of its pages were burned in the 1731 Ashburnham House fire, from which most of it was narrowly saved.
  Part 3 (ans: The Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede or Bæda]):
    The oldest Old English poem, Caedmon's ("KIDE-mon's") Hymn, survives only in copies of this medieval scholar's work Ecclesiastical History of the English People.

[BM5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: This author praised "the man who considers...what good or evil he has done, and what judgement his soul will receive after its passing" in his five-line "Death Song." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede the Venerable]):
    Name this mentor of Alcuin of York. He preserved the legend of Caedmon and his namesake hymn in a history written in Jarrow.
  Part 2 (ans: alliteration [or alliterative verse]):
    Caedmon's Hymn, possibly the oldest surviving English poem, was one of the oldest poems to use this poetic device. This repetitive device, also used in the Poetic Edda, typically replaced rhyme in Old English poetry.
  Part 3 (ans: sermons [or homilies; or Sermo Lupi ad Anglos]):
    Along with saints' lives, these works make up the majority of surviving Old English prose. Examples of these works include one that Wulfstan punningly titled "Lupi ad Anglos," as well as Jonathan Edwards's much later "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."

[BM6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In "The Monsters and the Critics," J. R. R. Tolkien accepts "without argument" that Beowulf originated in an "age" named for this writer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Venerable Bede ("beed") [or Saint Bede; or Bede the Venerable or Beda Venerabilis]):
    Name this attributed author of a five-line "Death Song." This writer's magnum opus relates how the cowherd Caedmon ("CAD-mun") miraculously received the ability to sing to compose his namesake hymn, which this writer preserved.
  Part 2 (ans: dreams [accept The Dream of the Rood; prompt on sleeping]):
    In Bede's ("beedʼs") account, Caedmon ("CAD-mun") gained the ability to sing during one of these events. One of these events "of the Rood" titles a poem, attributed to Caedmon, in which the cross narrates Jesus's crucifixion.
  Part 3 (ans: riddles [prompt on puzzle or questions or brainteasers or similar]):
    Bede wrote texts of this type in the Aenigmata section of his Liber epigrammatum. "An onion" is the answer to a suggestive text of this kind in the Exeter Book, which likely inspired a contest of these things in The Hobbit.

[BM7] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ezra Pound's translation of this poem opens "May I for my own self song's truth reckon, / Journey's jargon." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Seafarer):
    Name this poem that survives only in the Exeter Book. The title man describes his isolation and "cold-wetness" while journeying in an elegiac style, before concluding with the single word "Amen."
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [prompt on English]):
    As with all the other texts in the Exeter Book, The Seafarer is written in this language, which was used by Caedmon and by the author of Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: riddles):
    Among the components of the Exeter Book are ninety of these obtuse descriptions of various objects and concepts, which are extensively used in Old English literature. Those in the Exeter Book often incorporate double entendres, as shown by one concerning an "erect" and "hairy" onion.

[BM8] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Variously attributed to Caedmon and Cynewulf, this poem is primarily preserved in the Vercelli Codex, and is thought to be one of the oldest surviving in the Old English corpus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dream of the Rood):
    Name this poem. Its first section describes the narrator's vision of the Cross, while its second part describes Christ's crucifixion from the perspective of the cross itself.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruthwell Cross):
    Predating any Old English manuscripts, this large eighth-century stone cross, named for the Scottish border town where it still stands, is believed to independently preserve part of The Dream of the Rood.
  Part 3 (ans: The Venerable Bede):
    The attribution of the poem to Caedmon is based primarily on circumstantial evidence in the Ecclesiastical History of the English People, a work by this "venerable" monk of Jarrow.

[BM9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After this man left a banquet because he "did not know how to sing" and went to sleep, a figure in his dream told him "you can sing for me . . . Sing me creation." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caedmon [accept "Caedmon's Hymn"]):
    Name this man, who sang a namesake "Hymn" about "the work of the Glory-Father," which consists of creating "for the children of earth / heaven as a roof," and "then middle-earth."
  Part 2 (ans: Bede):
    "Caedmon's Hymn," the oldest surviving Old English poem, survived through manuscripts by this author. This "Venerable" monk also wrote the Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
  Part 3 (ans: riddles):
    Aldhelm, a contemporary of Caedmon and Bede, wrote a collection of these things called the Aenigmata. The "Leiden" one of these works, which is another of the earliest extant Old English poems, begins "The wet ground, incredibly cold, first produced me from its innards."

[BM10] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Objects in this text include the not-very-useful sword Hrunting, the somewhat-more-useful Nægling, and the mysterious "glof" belonging to the first of its three monstrous protagonists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beowulf):
    Name this Old English epic, in which the title warrior saves Hrothgar from the depredations of Grendel.
  Part 2 (ans: Nowell Codex [or Nowell manuscript]):
    The only surviving text of Beowulf is in this manuscript, the second part of Cotton Vitellius A.xv. ["A-fifteen"]. It has been suggested that heavy wear on one page of this manuscript, held at the British Library, is the result of readers' interest in the dragon.
  Part 3 (ans: hymn [accept "Caedmon's hymn"]):
    There may be some connection between a song sung in Hrothgar's hall and the Old English text of this kind often named for Caedmon, which begins "Now we must honour the guardian of heaven."

[BM11] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Because one of these texts consists of the single line "A marvel occurred on the road: water turned to bone," it is often combined with the preceding one. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: riddles):
    Name this genre, several Latin language examples of which appear in the Enigmata of the seventh-century abbot Aldhelm, including his Lorica, which was translated into the thirty-third piece of this type in the Exeter Book.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon]):
    Riddles are a staple of the literature of this language, which also includes poems such as Caedmon's Hymn and Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: J.R.R. Tolkien [or John Ronald Reuel Tolkien]):
    This scholar of Old English penned a riddle that reads "A box without hinges, key or lid, / Yet golden treasure inside is hid," whose

[BM12] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character reprimands the Archbishop of York for swearing when he accuses her of Lollardy during an interrogation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margery Kempe):
    Name this woman who refers to herself as "this creature" throughout an autobiography in which her visions of Christ prompt her to live celibately with her husband and pilgrimage to Jerusalem.
  Part 2 (ans: mystery plays):
    Sarah Salih argued that the Book of Margery Kempe inspired the Digby miracle plays. The genre of miracle plays is similar to this other medieval theatrical genre, which depicted events from the Bible.
  Part 3 (ans: hymns):
    Another work of medieval literature by a supposedly illiterate author was the poem of this type composed by the cowherd Caedmon. William Billings's "Africa" and John Newton's "Amazing Grace" are poems of this type, which are typically set to music.

[BM13] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's only extant poem, a nine-line verse which opens "Now let me praise the creator of Heaven's kingdom", is known as his namesake "Hymn". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caedmon):
    Identify this illiterate cowherd who, while living at Whitby Abbey under St. Hilda, supposedly learned the art of song in a dream.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on "English"; do not accept any other type of English]):
    "Caedmon's Hymn" is one of the few extant works attributed to an author in this language, which was also used by Cynewulf and Alfred the Great. Changes in this language after the Norman Conquest led to its disappearance by the 12th century.
  Part 3 (ans: the Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede the Venerable]):
    The story of Caedmon was related in this "Venerable" monk's Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
