=== STOCK CLUES: Caedmon ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 MUSES III (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Caedmon
  - In Muhammad and the Empires of Faith, Sean Anthony argued that the story of this poet's life was based directly on accounts of Muhammad laid out by Ibn Ishaq. [PWR]
  - The use of the word "scop" in a work by this poet has led to debates over whether the central figure is creating the world analogously to poetry.
  - This poet's most famous work ends by describing how the (+) Lord created "Heaven as a roof" and "the middle-earth, the Guardian of mankind" for humanity, and it opens by declaring "Now we ought to praise the Guardian of the heavenly kingdom." According to tradition, this poet composed his most famous work in a (*) dream vision while sleeping in a stable at Hild of Whitby's monastery.
  - In the Ecclesiastical History of the English People, the Venerable Bede claimed that this poet was an illiterate and musically untrained cow-herd who was then blessed with divine inspiration.
  - For 10 points, name this Anglo-Saxon poet, the author of a hymn that is the oldest extant piece of Old English poetry. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Much of the earliest surviving literature from the British Isles is in this language or in Latin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English]):
    Name this language used by the poets Caedmon ("KAD-mun") and Cynewulf ("KOO-nay-wolf"), which was also used to write the epic Beowulf.
  Part 2 (ans: hymns [accept "Caedmon's Hymn"; accept Olney Hymns]):
    Caedmon is known for an extant nine-line poem of this type written to "honour / heaven- kingdom's Ward." The later authors John Newton and William Cowper ("Cooper") wrote a collection of these poems named for the town of Olney.
  Part 3 (ans: Bede [or Saint Bede; or the Venerable Bede]):
    This writer is the namesake of an Old English "Death Song," which states "before the unavoidable journey," no one is wiser than he who ponders "good and evil within his soul."

[B2] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Aldhelm was inspired by Symphosius to write some of these works, including ones named for Leiden and one beginning "I am greater than this middle-earth". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anglo-Saxon riddles):
    Identify these works, including one named "Creatura", regarding man's role with other animals as subject to God.
  Part 2 (ans: Caedmon):
    This resident of Whitby Abbey was inspired by a dream to write his namesake Old English hymn which praises God. The account of his life comes from the Venerable Bede.
  Part 3 (ans: Jesus Christ [accept either underlined part or obvious equivalents]):
    Numerous works of Old English literature are collected in the Exeter Book, including a three-part poem of this figure. In The Dream of the Rood, a piece of wood recounts being used in the cross during the Crucifixion of this figure.

[B3] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After this man left a banquet because he "did not know how to sing" and went to sleep, a figure in his dream told him "you can sing for me . . . Sing me creation." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caedmon [accept "Caedmon's Hymn"]):
    Name this man, who sang a namesake "Hymn" about "the work of the Glory-Father," which consists of creating "for the children of earth / heaven as a roof," and "then middle-earth."
  Part 2 (ans: Bede):
    "Caedmon's Hymn," the oldest surviving Old English poem, survived through manuscripts by this author. This "Venerable" monk also wrote the Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
  Part 3 (ans: riddles):
    Aldhelm, a contemporary of Caedmon and Bede, wrote a collection of these things called the Aenigmata. The "Leiden" one of these works, which is another of the earliest extant Old English poems, begins "The wet ground, incredibly cold, first produced me from its innards."

[B4] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Objects in this text include the not-very-useful sword Hrunting, the somewhat-more-useful Nægling, and the mysterious "glof" belonging to the first of its three monstrous protagonists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beowulf):
    Name this Old English epic, in which the title warrior saves Hrothgar from the depredations of Grendel.
  Part 2 (ans: Nowell Codex [or Nowell manuscript]):
    The only surviving text of Beowulf is in this manuscript, the second part of Cotton Vitellius A.xv. ["A-fifteen"]. It has been suggested that heavy wear on one page of this manuscript, held at the British Library, is the result of readers' interest in the dragon.
  Part 3 (ans: hymn [accept "Caedmon's hymn"]):
    There may be some connection between a song sung in Hrothgar's hall and the Old English text of this kind often named for Caedmon, which begins "Now we must honour the guardian of heaven."

[B5] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In addition to ninety often double-entendre-heavy riddles, this collection's contents include three allegorical poems about animals, including "The Phoenix", "The Panther", and one describing the "Fastitocalon". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Exeter Book [or the Codex Exoniensis]):
    Name this codex, the source for such anonymous works as "The Whale", "The Wanderer", and "The Wife's Lament".
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on "English"]):
    The poems in the Exeter Book were written in this language, which was also used to write the poems in the Vercelli Book and the Nowell Codex, the latter of which includes Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: Caedmon):
    The fourth major codex of Old English literature is named for this poet, though he almost certainly wrote none of the poems in it. A poem named for him a nine-line hymn describing an illiterate cow-herd singing a song of the creation of the world, and it survives in Bede's Ecclesiastical History.

[B6] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This work claims that we must "honour the guardian of heaven" and "the might of the architect." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caedmon's Hymn):
    Name this work, split into eighteen half lines, which exalts the lord for creating middle earth as the "lands for men" and for making "heaven as a roof" for the "children of men."
  Part 2 (ans: Beowulf):
    Another early work of British literature is this epic poem, contained in the Nowell Codex, in which the titular hero slays Grendel and Grendel's Mother but dies in battle with a dragon.
  Part 3 (ans: Maldon [or "Battle of Maldon"]):
    Byrhtnoth refuses to pay the Vikings tribute and fails to corner them on the peninsula on which they have landed in a poem about this battle. Only slightly over 300 lines of the poem were preserved.
