=== STOCK CLUES: Clarice Lispector ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 22 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Clarice Lispector [or Chaya Pinkhasivna Lispector]
  - In a short story by this author, a character notes that "whoever marries off a son loses a son, but whoever marries off a daughter gains a son." In that story by this author, Tony addresses his mother-in-law by her first name while seeing her off. [PWR]
  - Catherine awkwardly says goodbye to her mother Severina, who constantly checks her suitcases, in a short story that titles this author's collection Family Ties. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a novel in which the title character claims that "the world's continual breathing is what we hear and call silence." In another novel by this author, a European man's promise to (*) Macabea is represented by the yellow Mercedes that runs her over. [PWR]
  - The title character of a novel by this author enters a former maid's room to find a cockroach, whose entrails she eventually puts in her mouth.
  - For 10 points, name this Brazilian author of The Hour of the Star and The Passion According to G.H. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Clarice Lispector
  - The line "I was no longer a girl with a book: I was a woman with her lover" begins a story by this author about a girl who bullies the narrator by putting off lending her a book.
  - In a story by this author, a dead dog found on a street corner is buried and then unburied by a mathematics professor. [PWR]
  - A woman breaks a package of eggs on a tram when she sees a blind man chewing gum in a short story by this author. [PWR]
  - In another story, this author contrasted a girl who concludes "misfortune has no limit" with an old woman who declares "God knows what he's doing" in response to a newspaper story about a woman nicknamed (*) "Little Flower." The French explorer Marcel Pretre (mar-SELL PRET-ruh) discovers a tribe of pygmies in this author's story "The Smallest Woman in the World," which she included in her collection Family Ties . [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, a woman breaks down after killing a cockroach and then puts it in her mouth.
  - For 10 points, name this Brazilian author of The Passion According to G. [GIVE]
  - H.

[T3] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Clarice Lispector Tiebreaker
  - One novel by this author abruptly ends with a colon as the philosophy teacher Ulisses is about to speak.
  - In another novel by this author, a man shows off his strength to a woman by lifting her over his head with one hand, but then drops her into the mud.
  - That novel by this author centers on a woman who lives on a diet of hot dogs and Coca-Cola and dies just after visiting the fortune teller Madame Carlota when she is hit by a yellow Mercedes.
  - In a short story by this author, the explorer Marcel Pretre writes a newspaper article about a pregnant Likouala woman who is forty-five centimeters tall.
  - This author of "The Smallest Woman in the World" wrote a novel whose title character has an existential crisis in the abandoned room of her maid Janair after slamming the wardrobe door on a cockroach, which she then eats.
  - For 10 points, name this Brazilian author of The Hour of the Star and The Passion According to G.H. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Clarice Lispector
  - One short story by this author ends as a woman reading the newspaper muses "Just goes to show, God knows what He's about," after seeing a picture of a forty-five-centimeter tall pregnant member of the Likoualas tribe discovered by Marcel Pretre.
  - A novel by this author begin with the protagonist waking up in the "How a Man is Made" section and depicts a man abandoning language to live as stones do in "The Birth of the Hero." In a novel by this author, an idle rich sculptor compares her past abortion to squashing a cockroach in the abandoned room of her maid Janair.
  - This author of "The Smallest Woman in the World" and The Passion According to G.H. wrote about the journey of a man who may have killed his wife, Martim, in The Apple in the Dark.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Rodrigo's attempt to chronicle the life and death of Macabea in The Hour of the Star and who was a Ukrainian-Brazilian Jewish woman. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character describes her maid's room as a "violation of my quotation marks" that makes her a "citation of herself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: G.H.):
    Name this character who, after being shocked into a mystic crisis at the sight of a cockroach she killed, puts its corpse in her mouth.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarice Lispector [or Chaya Pinkhasivna Lispector]):
    The Passion According to G.H. is by this author, who depicted the turmoil of Joanna in her debut novel, Near to the Wild Heart.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; accept Republica Federativa do Brasil]):
    Though born in Ukraine, Lispector primarily worked and published in this country whose literature gained renown from the works of Machado de Assis.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story in this collection, a woman folds up a newspaper after reading about a woman nicknamed "Little Flower," prompting her to say, "Well, as I always say: God knows what He's doing." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Family Ties [or Lacos de familia]):
    Name this collection that includes "The Smallest Woman in the World." Severina obsesses over her suitcases in the title story of this collection.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarice Lispector):
    This author of Family Ties wrote about Joan, who struggles with her adulterous husband Otavio, in the novel Near to the Wild Heart. In a novel by this author, a woman accidentally kills a cockroach, then eats it.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or Republica Federativa do Brasil]):
    Like fellow short story writer Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis, Clarice Lispector set many of her stories like "Mystery in Sao Cristovao" in this South American country.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A dictator called the "Caballero" ("kah-bah-YAY-roh") threatens to abort the title musician's son in a novel by this author depicting a "Fetal Rebellion." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ariel Dorfman [or Vladimiro Ariel Dorfman]):
    Name this Chilean author of The Last Song of Manuel Sendero, who depicted the torture victim Paulina Salas in his play Death and the Maiden.
  Part 2 (ans: The Passion According to G.H. (by Clarice Lispector) [or A paixao segundo G.H]):
    This novel by another author concerns a wealthy sculptor who had an abortion years prior. Its protagonist concludes that her Black former maid hated her upon entering her room and finding charcoal drawings of a man, woman, and dog.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    This author, who recounted helping her friend Celina get an illegal abortion in her 2021 memoir Soul of a Woman, also wrote the novels Eva Luna and The House of the Spirits.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by Daniel Alarcon, Norma creates works for this medium to rally a war-torn country whose villages have been renamed after numbers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: radio [accept radionovelas; accept Lost City Radio; prompt on soap operas or scripts or plays or novelas by asking "what medium are they performed in?"]):
    Identify this medium. The even chapters of a novel comprise progressively more deranged works for this medium that intersect with the life of the law student Mario, who falls in love with an older divorcee.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa [prompt on Vargas or Llosa]):
    This Peruvian and compatriot of Alarcon interweaved Pedro Camacho's radio soap operas throughout his novel Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
  Part 3 (ans: Clarice Lispector (The novella is The Hour of the Star.)):
    An episode of Alarcon's show Radio Ambulante recounts how this author attended the World Congress of Sorcery. The protagonist of a novella by this author learns facts from a Clock Radio after taking up a job as a typist, and visits a fortune teller.

[B5] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of a novel by this author fixates on a cockroach she kills while cleaning out the room of a former maid whose name she cannot remember. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clarice Lispector [or Chaya Pinkasivna Lispector]):
    Name this author of The Passion According to G. H. This author contrasts the Northeast and Southeast regions of Brazil, where she spent most of her life, in her novel The Hour of the Star.
  Part 2 (ans: The Devil to Pay in the Backlands [or Grande Sertao: Veredas]):
    A sparse region in Brazil's Northeast Region partially titles this novel that ends with Diadorim killing Hermogenes in a knife fight. The former jagunco Riobaldo retells his life in this novel by Joao Guimaraes Rosa.
  Part 3 (ans: stream of consciousness):
    Lispector was compared to Virginia Woolf, and Rosa has drawn comparisons to James Joyce, for their use of this narrative style, which portrays a continual flow of uninterrupted thoughts.

[B6] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel turns himself into a dust storm while travelling through a volatile region en route to the pyramids. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  The  Alchemist [or  O  Alquimista ]):
    Name this Portuguese-language 1988 novel in which a fortune-teller tells Santiago to go to Egypt to find buried treasure, only for him to discover that the treasure is in the exact spot in Spain he started in.
  Part 2 (ans:  Brazil [accept Republica Federativa do  Brasil ]):
    The author of The Alchemist , Paulo Coelho, is one of the many Portuguese-speaking authors from this South American country.
  Part 3 (ans:  The  Hour of the Star [or  A  hora da estrela ] (by Clarice Lispector)):
    Other fortune-tellers in Brazilian literature include Madame Carlota, who tells the protagonist of this novel that she will meet a wealthy foreigner only for her to be run over immediately by a yellow car.

[B7] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator imagines these animals as statues made of Parisian plaster in the piece "Five Stories on a Single Theme." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cockroaches [or baratas; prompt on insects or arthropods]):
    Name this animal that becomes the obsession of the narrator of a novel who ponders the charcoal outlines of a dog and a naked man and woman that her former maid Janair had drawn on her wall.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarice Lispector [or Chaya Pinkhasivna Lispector]):
    "Five Stories on a Single Theme" is by this Brazilian author, who wrote about a woman who eats a cockroach in her novel The Passion According to G.H.
  Part 3 (ans: cronicas [or chronicles]):
    "Five Stories on a Single Theme" is one of Lispector's pieces in this genre, which are collected in the 2018 book Too Much of Life. This Portuguese-language genre of short, informal writings on daily topics are published in newspaper or magazine columns.

[B8] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a mother fails to recognize ill omens in her son's dream of flying through almond trees in a tinfoil airplane, despite her reputation for dream interpretation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chronicle of a Death Foretold [or Cronica de una muerte anunciada]):
    Name this novel in which Colonel Aponte confiscates a pair of knives from two characters visiting Clotilde Armenta's milk bar. A woman in this novel spends seventeen years writing letters to a fiance who abandoned her.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Gabriel Jose de la Concordia Garcia Marquez; prompt on Gabo or Gabito; prompt on Marquez or Garcia (The other novel is One Hundred Years of Solitude.)):
    This author of Chronicle of a Death Foretold wrote a novel in which Melquiades's manuscript predicts the destruction of Macondo.
  Part 3 (ans: car accident [or equivalents such as car crash or automobile accident; accept being hit by a Mercedes; prompt on being hit by a vehicle or similar] (The novel is The Hour of the Star by Clarice Lispector.)):
    In another novel, Macabea dies in this manner after the fortune teller Madame Carlota predicts her happiness and marriage to a wealthy foreigner named Hans.

[B9] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's narrator is distressed by an empty room that she describes as "a violation of my quotation marks."For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Passion according to G.H. [or A Paixao Segundo G.H.]):
    Name this novel whose title character examines the empty room left by her maid, Janair; that title character in this novel then finds charcoal drawings of a man, a woman, and a dog scratched on the wall.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarice Lispector [accept Chaya Pinkhasivna Lispector]):
    The Passion according to G.H. is by this author, who also wrote Near to the Wild Heart and depicted her country's north-south divide in The Hour of the Star.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil [or Brasil; or Federative Republic of Brazil or Republica Federeitva do Brasil]):
    The Ukrainian-born author Lispector mostly wrote in this country. Jorge Amado ("ZHOR-zhee ah-MAH-doo"), an author from this country, wrote novels like Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands in Portuguese.

[B10] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author discussed the "school of the dead," the "school of dreams," and the "school of roots" in Three Steps on the Ladder of Writing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helene Cixous ("ay-LEN seek-SOO")):
    Name this author who called for women writers to proclaim a "unique empire" in an essay that uses "white ink" as a metaphor for her concept of ecriture feminine.
  Part 2 (ans: Medusa [or la meduse]):
    That Cixous essay is titled for the "laugh" of this figure from Greek mythology. In a Carol Ann Duffy poem, this snake-haired figure describes turning a bee into "a dull grey pebble" with her gaze.
  Part 3 (ans: Clarice Lispector [or Chaya Pinkhasivna Lispector] (That novel is The Hour of the Star.)):
    Cixous's essay "The Hour of [this author]" is titled in reference to a novel by this Brazilian author in which Macabea is hit by a car after having her fortune told.

[B11] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist slaps herself in the face while taking a bath after her aunt calls her a "viper" for stealing a book. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Near to the Wild Heart [or Perto do coracao selvagem]):
    Name this novel whose author published it in 1943 at the age of 23. It narrates the inner life of a Spinoza-loving woman named Joana through episodes from her childhood and her marriage to her adulterous husband Otavio.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarice Lispector):
    Near to the Wild Heart is by this author of The Passion According to G.H. In a recent essay, Katrina Dodson, who translated this writer's complete stories, noted that most photos of her actually show lookalikes like Rita Elmor, who starred in a one-woman play titled What Mysteries Has [This Author]?
  Part 3 (ans: A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (by James Joyce)):
    Lucio Cardoso suggested the title of Near to the Wild Heart from this novel, which Lispector had not read at the time. Father Arnall's sermon appears in this novel about the early life of Stephen Dedalus.

[B12] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The servant Lucrecia ("loo-kreh-see-ah") is threatened with the title object of this author's story "The Case of the Stick" when a joke told by the protagonist distracts her from work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis ("muh-SHAH-doo jee uh-SEES")):
    Name this author of the short story "Midnight Mass." In a novella by this author, Bacamarte opens an asylum called the Green House.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarice Lispector):
    In this other Brazilian author's "The Fifth Story," the narrator gives different accounts of killings of cockroaches. The title character of this woman's novel The Passion According to G.H. kills and eats a cockroach.
  Part 3 (ans: roses):
    In a Lispector story named for The Imitation of Christ, a woman agonizes over whether to give away some of these flowers. A Robert Burns song says that "my love is like" one of these flowers "that's newly sprung in June."

[B13] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a short story by this writer, Ana is thrown into panic by the sight of a blind man chewing gum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clarice Lispector):
    Name this author of the short stories "Love" and "The Smallest Woman in the World." The hot-dog-eating typist Macabea gets hit by a Mercedes after seeing a fortune teller in this author's novel The Hour of the Star.
  Part 2 (ans: Brazil):
    Lispector hailed from this country, also home to an author who wrote about a woman's affair with the ghost of Vadinho in Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands, Jorge Amado.
  Part 3 (ans: cockroaches):
    Lispector's "The Fifth Story" presents five increasingly bizarre stories about killing these insects, one of which the narrator of her The Passion According to G. H. eats.

[B14] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's character Quincas Borba appears in his The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and Philosopher or Dog?. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Joaquim Maria) Machado de Assis [or Bruxo do Cosme Velho]):
    Name this author who wrote about a man who suspects the fidelity of his wife, Capitu, in Dom Casmurro.
  Part 2 (ans: Federative Republic of Brazil):
    Machado de Assis hails from this Portuguese-speaking nation.
  Part 3 (ans: Clarice Lispector):
    This Brazilian Jewish writer of A Breath of Life wrote about the title character's existential crisis after killing a cockroach in The Passion According to G.H.
