=== STOCK CLUES: Olmsted ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frederick Law Olmsted
  - This man was at different points in his life a merchant, apprentice seaman, experimental farmer, and goldmine manager. [PWR]
  - In addition to his primary career, he was also an author, conservationist, and public servant. [PWR]
  - This man worked closely with Calvert Vaux on his designs. [PWR]
  - The seven S's of this man's design process are (*) Scenery, Suitability, Style, Subordination, Separation, Sanitation, and Service.
  - His landscape designs focused on preserving the existing contours of the landscape and heightening the beauty of what is already there.
  - His care for the forests surrounding the grounds of the Biltmore Estate that he designed inadvertently set the groundwork for forestry in the U.S.
  - For ten points, name the landscape architect who designed the Emerald Necklace in Boston, the U.S. [GIVE]
  - Capitol Grounds, and Central Park.

[T2] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frederick Law Olmsted
  - This American's best-known project featured Ebert Ludovicus Viele as the engineer-in-chief.
  - Near the end of his life, this man was ironically committed to McLean Hospital in Waverly, Massachusetts, whose grounds he had designed.
  - He described antebellum Southern poverty in his book Journeys and Explorations in the Cotton Kingdom.
  - This man, who had no experience in design at the time, met his English-born partner thanks to his mentor Andrew Jackson Downing.
  - With that partner, this architect used the Greensward Plan to create a location with such landmarks as Bethesda Fountain and the Sheep Meadow.
  - He partnered with Calvert Vaux to create Prospect Park.
  - For 10 points, name this American landscape architect who was a co-designer of Central Park. [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frederick Law Olmsted
  - This man's sons collaborated with the Bartholomew firm on a never-implemented plan for Los Angeles.
  - This cofounder of The Nation collaborated on the Buffalo State Hospital with his friend Henry Hobson Richardson, and was influenced by his mentor Andrew Jackson Downing.
  - The sixth chapter of Edmund Wilson's Patriotic Gore discusses this man's pre-Civil War account of his travels to the South, The Cotton Kingdom.
  - This architect designed the Emerald Necklace in Boston, as well as the planned city of Riverside, Illinois.
  - This longtime partner of Calvert Vaux designed the grounds of the 1893 World's Fair in Chicago and the campus of Stanford University, and submitted the Greensward Plan for a location that contains the Bow Bridge, the Bethesda Fountain, and the Great Lawn.
  - For 10 points, name this American landscape architect who designed Central Park. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Leadin: This society was controversially judged to be economically profitable in the book Time on the Cross. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Southern slave society [or antebellum society; or American slave society; or obvious equivalents; prompt on the United States of America or America]):
    Name this society analyzed in Eugene Genovese's book Roll, Jordan, Roll, which argued that this paternalistic society was resisted through such means as religion and music.
  Part 2 (ans: Eli Whitney):
    Slavery as a whole grew on a national level after this man invented the cotton gin in 1793, as it made cotton plantations economically feasible throughout the South.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    This man argued that slavery made the South economically inefficient in his account of touring the antebellum South, Journeys and Explorations in the Cotton Kingdom. Andrew Jackson Downing introduced this man to his collaborator Calvert Vaux.

[B2] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist created the Floating Island to Travel Around Manhattan Island, a tree-covered barge which was tugged around by a boat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Smithson):
    Name this artist who made Broken Circle at Emmen, Holland as well as an earthwork at Rozel Point on the Great Salt Lake called Spiral Jetty.
  Part 2 (ans: Kent State University):
    Until its demolition, Smithson's Partially Buried Woodshed was located at this university. A Pulitzer Prize-winning photo of Mary Ann Vecchio kneeling and screaming over the body of Jeffrey Miller was taken here.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    Smithson's article about the "Dialectical Landscape" centers on this man, whose Greensward Plan Smithson revered. With Calvert Vaux, this man designed Central Park.

[B3] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Harvey Ellis's Pillsbury Hall and Long and Kees's Minneapolis City Hall are among the Midwestern works inspired by this man's namesake style. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Hobson Richardson):
    Name this 19th-century American architect, who lends his name to a Romanesque revival style exemplified by his John J. Glessner House, the former Marshall Field's Wholesale Store, and his masterpiece, Boston's Trinity Church.
  Part 2 (ans: Buffalo, New York):
    Richardson's largest commission was for a mental hospital and asylum complex in this Rust Belt city. Sullivan and Adler designed the Guaranty Building for this city, which is also home to a huge Art Deco City Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    Both the grounds of Richardson's asylum and an extensive connected park system in Buffalo were designed by this landscape architect, who worked with his partner Calvert Vaux on New York's Prospect and Central Parks.

[B4] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man was commissioned to write Journeys and Explorations in the Cotton Kingdom after the success of his travelogue Walks and Talks of an American Farmer in England. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    Identify this chairman of the first Yosemite Commission, who was the landscape architect for the World's Columbia Exposition and Stanford University.
  Part 2 (ans: Central Park):
    Olmsted worked with Calvert Vaux on this New York City landmark, which is the setting of Edward Albee's play The Zoo Story.
  Part 3 (ans: Biltmore Estate):
    Olmsted was the landscape architect for this estate, whose buildings were designed by Richard Morris Hunt. Carl A. Schenck taught at the nation's first forest school, which was named for this estate.

[B5] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these landscape architects, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Isamu Noguchi):
    This Japanese-American namesake of a one-legged table designed sets for Martha Graham and several "sunken gardens," including one at Yale and one at the Chase Manhattan plaza.
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Burley Griffin):
    This architect of the Peters House wanted to use a new building method known as the "knitlock system," but had to settle for designing Canberra instead.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    The very extensive designs of this man include Boston's Emerald Neckale, the campuses of Chicago and Cornell, and Central Park.

[B6] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer these questions about the architecture of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Chester French):
    This American sculptor created the Statue of the Republic, which overlooked the event. He is better known for his seated sculpture of Lincoln at the Lincoln Memorial and his Minute Man.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    This man wanted to create a canal running through the Midway Plaisance he designed for the exposition. He collaborated with Calvert Vaux in designing Central Park.
  Part 3 (ans: City Beautiful):
    The Columbian Exposition helped bring about this architectural movement, used in the designs of Canberra and Coral Gables, which intended to make previously crowded urban environments more harmonious and attractive.

[B7] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's mentor, Andrew Jackson Downing, died in a steamboat explosion on the Hudson River. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    Name this early figure in American landscape architecture, who frequently partnered with Calvert Vaux. He worked heavily in New York, but also designed the Midway Plaisance for the 1893 Chicago World's Exposition.
  Part 2 (ans: Central Park):
    Olmsted and Vaux designed this location in Manhattan. It receives numerous tourists, contains a zoo, and runs open-air theater and concert productions each summer.
  Part 3 (ans: Stanford White):
    This New York architect designed the second Madison Square Garden in 1890. The partner of Charles McKim and William Mead, he was killed by Harry Thaw, the husband of Evelyn Nesbit, an actress this man was having an affair with.
