=== STOCK CLUES: Dulce et Decorum Est ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 10 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Scattergories (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: dulce et decorum est pro patria mori [or "It is sweet and fitting to die for one's country"; or "What joy, for fatherland to die"]
  - Bertolt Brecht was almost expelled from school for criticizing this phrase in response to an essay prompt. [PWR]
  - This phrase is referenced in a description of people who "walked eye-deep in hell" in Part IV of Ezra Pound's "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley." In one appearance, this phrase follows a description of a maiden who cries "O tempt not the infuriate mood of that fell lion I see!" A poem named for this phrase was ironically dedicated to (*) Jessie Pope, and chides those who "tell [this phrase] with such high zest to children ardent for some desperate glory." That poem describes "an ecstasy of fumbling" by people "bent double, like old beggars under sacks." For 10 points, name this patriotic phrase from a poem by Horace which Wilfred Owen called "the old Lie" in an anti-war poem. [PWR,GIVE]

[T2] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: "Dulce et decorum est" [accept "Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori"; accept reasonable translations of the full phrase, such as "It is sweet and seemly to die for one's country" or "What a joy, to die for the fatherland"]
  - This phrase is followed by a description of "death's darts flying overhead" in reference to Parthian tactics in the ode it originates from. [PWR]
  - Drafts of a work titled for this phrase written at Craiglockhart hospital were ironically dedicated to Jessie Pope. [PWR]
  - A work titled for this phrase imagines people "deaf even to the hoots" of "outstripped Five-Nines." In that poem, this phrase appears at the end of a stanza that wishes the reader would "watch the (*) white eyes writhing in his face / His hanging face, like a devil's sick of sin." An "ecstasy of fumbling" is described in a poem titled for this phrase, which originates from an ode by Horace and is called an "old lie" to "children ardent for some desperate glory." For 10 points, Wilfred Owen titled an anti-war poem for what Latin phrase? [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: "Dulce et Decorum Est"
  - In this poem, "my friend" likely refers to the poet to whom it was originally dedicated, Jessie Pope.
  - An early version of this poem was sent to the author's mother from Craiglockhart.
  - This poem describes how "All went lame; all blind; drunk with fatigue" before proposing that the addressee share the speaker's experience by means of "some smothering dreams." This poem describes a "hanging face, like a devil's sick of sin" and the blood "obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud of vile, incurable sores" coming from the "froth-corrupted lungs" of one of the speaker's companions.
  - This poem refutes "the old Lie" taken from an ode by Horace.
  - For 10 points, name this poem about a gas attack written by Wilfred Owen. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Recalling a dying soldier, a poem with this title says: "In all my dreams before my helpless sight, he plunges at me, guttering, choking, drowning." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dulce et decorum est pro patria mori [accept translations like "It is sweet and proper to die for the fatherland"]):
    Give this patriotic phrase from Horace, which a wartime poem calls "the old lie."
  Part 2 (ans: Wilfred Owen [Wilfred Edward Salter Owen]):
    "Dulce et Decorum Est" is by this poet, who fought in World War I and also wrote "Strange Meeting."
  Part 3 (ans: "Insensibility"):
    This other Owen poem curses the "wretched" who "by choice... made themselves immune" to "whatever shares the eternal reciprocity of tears." It begins: "Happy are men who yet before they are killed can let their veins run cold."

[B2] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's speaker asks, "Who wants a turn to himself in the show? / And who wants a seat in the stand?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Who's for the Game?"):
    Name this Jessie Pope poem whose speaker says, "Come along, lads" and declares, "Your country is up to her neck in a fight, / And she's looking and calling for you."
  Part 2 (ans: "Dulce et Decorum Est"):
    Wilfred Owen originally dedicated this poem to Jessie Pope. This poem describes soldiers "bent double, like old beggars under sacks" who were tricked by the title "old Lie" from a poem by Horace.
  Part 3 (ans: Siegfried Sassoon):
    This other WWI poet and friend of Wilfred Owen described a man who screams, "O Christ, they're coming at us!" before being killed during a battle in the "jolly old rain" in his poem "Counter-Attack."

[B3] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One speaker in this poem says "Foreheads of men have bled where no wounds were" and speaks "the truth untold, / The pity of war, the pity war distilled." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Strange Meeting"):
    Name this poem in which a soldier goes down a "profound dull tunnel" into Hell and meets a man who says "I am the enemy you killed, my friend."
  Part 2 (ans: "Dulce Et Decorum Est"):
    "Strange Meeting" is by Wilfred Owen, who also wrote this poem that describes a gas attack and ends with a quotation of the title "old lie" taken from Horace's Odes.
  Part 3 (ans: Siegfried Loraine Sassoon):
    "Strange Meeting" may have been based on a poem by this friend of Owen, who edited and wrote the introduction to Owen's posthumous 1920 collection. Unlike the other World War I poets, he unfortunately survived the war and went on to write the awful Poems of Pinchbeck Lyre and Lenten Illuminations.

[B4] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify some World War I-related literature, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dulce et Decorum Est"):
    This Wilfred Owen poem depicts a group of soldiers bent like "old beggars under sacks" during a gas attack, and calls the title Latin saying "an old lie".
  Part 2 (ans: Siegfried Sassoon):
    This friend of Wilfred Owen wrote an autobiography called the Sherston trilogy, as well as a poem that details a group of soldiers failing an objective, entitled "Counter-Attack".
  Part 3 (ans: Pat Barker):
    This contemporary English author wrote about Billy Prior, a figure she created to contrast with Owen and Sassoon, in a series of novels called the Regeneration Trilogy.
