=== STOCK CLUES: Christine de Pizan ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Answer: Penthesilea [or Penthesileia; or Pantasselle] (The first two lines refer to Christine de Pizan's Epistle of Othea to Hector, Benoit's Roman de Troie, and Guido's Historia destructionis Troiae.)
  - This figure embodies charity by avenging the heroic addressee of The Epistle of Othea.
  - Pyrrhus cuts off this figure's arm in Benoit de Sainte-Maure's  Romance and Guido delle Colonne's  History.
  - This figure foolishly trusts Athena's false dream, in which Ares promises glory, and begins a leopardlike aristeia that rouses Tisiphone's followers to arms until Theano stops them.
  - This figure abruptly arrives at the funeral of the "breaker of horses" in the alleged incipit of the Aethiopis.
  - After committing sororicide while hunting in Book 1 of Quintus's Posthomerica, this foreign leader of 12 warriors replaces Hector as Troy's champion.
  - A Kleist tragedy reverses this bellatrix's defeat by Achilles, whom Thersites mocks for lusting after her corpse.
  - For 10 points, Vergil likely modeled Camilla on what sister of Hippolyta and queen of the Amazons? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Medieval Literature Packet (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Christine [or Christine de Pizan or Christine de Pisan or Cristina da Pizzano]
  - In one book, this character cites the similar cases of Iphis and Tiresias before describing how she was transformed into a "perfect natural man" after the death of her husband. [PWR]
  - In another book, this character reads The Consolation of Philosophy before falling asleep and being led on a dream-journey by the Cumaean Sibyl. [PWR]
  - This character, who narrates The (+) Mutation of Fortune and The Path of Long Study, is introduced to the Virgin Mary by a woman who carries a vessel of fine gold. [PWR]
  - This character begins to fear that she is an "aberration of nature" after reading The Lamentations of Matheolus until three ladies representing Reason, Rectitude, and Justice visit her and help her lay the foundations of the title (*) city. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this French author who included herself as a character in The Book of the City of Ladies. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: French [or francais; accept Old French or francois; accept Francien; prompt on Anglo-Norman or Breton with "what language was the most famous version of that tale originally written in?"] (The first clue is from Christine de Pizan's The Book of Fortune's Transformation, written after the death of her husband.)
  - In a poem in this language, the narrator describes a castle suspended by four chains and turns from a woman into a "complete, natural man" after her husband dies.
  - In a story most notably told in this language, a woman gets a knight to steal a man's clothes from a bush.
  - A work written in this language opens with a woman reading Maltheolus's Lamentations.
  - In a poem in this language, a woman's nose is bitten off by her werewolf husband.
  - A work in this language was written as a response to the misogyny in Romance of the Rose; in that work in this language, Ladies Reason, Rectitude, and Justice describe historical women to build the title place.
  - For 10 points, name this language that was used to write The Book of the City of Ladies by Christine de Pizan and was also used for The Song of Roland. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Christine de Pisan [or Christine de Pizan]
  - Convinced that nobility were descended from Trojans, this author portrayed the latter as malevolent in such works as Letter of Othea to Hector. [PWR]
  - A book by this author opens with a frame tale in which the autobiographical protagonist goes to dinner after seeing a copy of Matheolus's Lamentations. [PWR]
  - The spirits that inspired the completion of this author's first book supposedly harassed this author into writing the education manual The Book of the Three Virtues. [PWR]
  - This author criticized mischaracterizations in such works as (*) Ovid's Art of Love and Jean de Meun's Romance of the Rose in a vernacular French book in which Reason, Rectitude, and Justice tell her to fight prejudice and build the title structure from the blocks of other famous women. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Book of the City of Ladies. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Christine de Pizan [accept either underlined name]
  - The best known of the elegiac ballades written by this author begins, "Alone am I and alone I wish to be." This author featured the Cumaen Sibyl in both a dream allegory about "the path of long study" and a work presented as a letter from Athea to Hector.
  - Early in a book by this author, the protagonist puts down a copy of Matheolus's Lamentations in despair and is shown a jeweled mirror that allows people to "see themselves as they truly are." A letter this author wrote to Jean de Montreuil to attack the immorality of a Jean de Meun poem kicked off the so-called "Quarrel of The Rose." Personifications of Reason, Rectitude, and Justice lead this author to the Plain of Letters, where they lay the foundations and walls of the title place in one of her books.
  - For 10 points, name this 14th-century writer who responded to other authors' misogynistic depictions of women in The Book of the City of Ladies. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's posthumous play The Eternal Feminine imagines a conversation between notable women in Mexican history, including Sor Juana. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rosario Castellanos):
    Name this pioneering feminist author of Ciudad Real and The Book of Lamentations, who described how sometimes your "measuring stick breaks" and "your compass goes missing" in her confessional poem "Valium 10."
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    This other Mexican author wrote about the challenges faced by Sor Juana in The Traps of Faith. This author discussed Mexicans as the sons of "La Malinche" in his essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Christine de Pizan [accept Cristina da Pizzano; prompt on Christine or de Pizan; prompt on Christina or da Pizzano]):
    Sor Juana's defense of women's education, Reply to Sister Philotea, mentions the pioneering role of Teresa of Avila but fails to mention this author, who used famous women as the "building blocks" for her "city of ladies."

[B2] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's sequel, informed by its author's experience as a widow, explains how to run a household and suggests that it is women's job to keep men from fighting with their neighbors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of the City of Ladies [or Le Livre de la Cite des Dames; do not accept or prompt on "The Treasure of the City of Ladies," which is the sequel]):
    Name this novel where Reason gives the author a mirror to see herself as she truly is without men's disdain. In this novel, the author excavates the Field of Letters to make a refuge inspired by powerful, chaste, and holy women.
  Part 2 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    This author of The Book of the City of Ladies argued that women cannot be vile or foolish if men expend so much effort to trick and seduce them in her response to Jean de Meun's addition to The Romance of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    This translator of The Romance of the Rose used it as inspiration for a story where an old hag tells a knight what women most desire. The Wife of Bath tells that story in this author's The Canterbury Tales.

[B3] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: It's not Vegetius, but this author defined a "just war" as one fought to achieve peace without such "detestable and improper" acts like pillaging and harming non-combatants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    Name this author of The Book of Feats of Arms and Chivalry. Reason, Rectitude, and Justice help this author build the title structure in The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 2 (ans: The Romance of the Rose [or Le Roman de la Rose]):
    The Book of the City of Ladies was partially written in response to Jean de Meun's addition to this chivalric poem. At the end of this poem, Venus defeats Danger and Jealousy, allowing the Lover to pick the title flower.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Pizan likely used this author's On Famous Women as reference material for The Book of the City of Ladies. Several Florentines who have fled the black plague tell stories in this author's book The Decameron.

[B4] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a work by Marceline Desbordes-Valmore thought to be the first lyric poem about menstruation, the speaker's dress bursts after she tries to stuff too many of these objects inside. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: roses [accept rosebuds or rosebush; prompt on flowers]):
    Name these objects. In a long poetic work, Jealousy builds a castle to protect one of them, later leading to a staff being suggestively inserted into an arrow-slit, after a character first sees one while gazing at a fountain.
  Part 2 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    That allegorical poem, Romance of the Rose, caused a 'quarrel' in medieval France between Jean de Montreuil [mon-TRUH] and this author, who responded with a work featuring Reason, Rectitude and Justice titled The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 3 (ans: William Shakespeare):
    A sonnet by this author describes how 'The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem / For that sweet odour, which doth in it live'. Another of this author's sonnets begins 'Let me not to the marriage of true minds / Admit impediments'.

[B5] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these French feminists from diverse origins and time periods, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Olympe de Gouges [oh-LAMP duh GOOJ]):
    This French activist protested slavery in her play Zamore and Mirza. She was executed in 1793, two years after writing her Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen.
  Part 2 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    This medieval feminist, who criticized the immorality of the Romance of the Rose, promoted female education in The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 3 (ans: Natalie Clifford Barney):
    This expat hosted a Parisian salon that became a haven for anti-WWI activists and started an Academy of Women as a counterpart to the French Academy. Biographies like Jean Chalon's Portrait of a Seductress made this author of Thoughts of an Amazon better known for being an open lesbian than intellectual work.

[B6] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This author wrote her most famous work in response to the misogyny found in the Romance of the Rose. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    Name this female author attached to the French royal court who imagined building a city full of virtuous women in The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    De Pizan is believed to have based the stories found in the Book of the City of Ladies on this author's On Famous Women. He also wrote The Decameron.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Reason):
    In Book I of The City of Ladies, this figure aids de Pizan and building the city's foundation. In the two other books, de Pizan is aided by her allies Rectitude and Justice.

[B7] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Three virtuous ladies offer educational lessons for women in the sequel to this author's most famous work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christine de Pizan [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this court writer for several Dukes of Burgundy, including John the Fearless. The aforementioned Reason, Rectitude, and Justice help her collect historical women in her most notable work, The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 2 (ans: The Romance of the Rose [or Le Roman de la Rose]):
    The Book of the City of Ladies was Christine's response to this medieval French courtly poem on the art of love. Begun around 1230 by Guillaume de Lorris (gi-UM-de-lo-REE), it was massively expanded 40 years later by Jean de Meun.
  Part 3 (ans: Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d'Arc; prompt on "La Pucelle"]):
    Christine's final written work was a poem dedicated to the memory of this woman. A Friedrich Schiller play and a Voltaire poem about this woman are both titled "The Maid of Orleans."

[B8] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Richard Zenith has twice translated this work, which includes a mixture of prose, poetry, and fictional diary entries. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of Disquiet [or Livro do Desassossego: Composto por Bernardo Soares, ajudante de guarda-livros na cidade de Lisboa]):
    Identify this collection of posthumously assembled fragments by Fernando Pessoa, which he wrote while employing the persona of Bernardo Soares.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being included a description of the erasure of Vladimir Clementis from a photograph in his The Book of Laughter of Forgetting.
  Part 3 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    This medieval French author described Reason, Rectitude, and Justice helping to build the title city in her The Book of the City of Ladies, which was a response to the misogynistic attitudes of The Romance of the Rose.

[B9] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author attacked Jean de Meun in the proto-feminist treatise "Letter to the God of Love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    Name this medieval French poet who also responded to Jean de Meun's misogyny in her most famous work, The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 2 (ans: rose):
    Jean de Meun completed a poem begun by Guillaume de Lorris named after this type of flower. In Romeo and Juliet, Juliet says that this flower "by any other name would smell as sweet."
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    One influence on Christine de Pizan was this Italian author of On Famous Women, a collection of biographies of women.
