=== STOCK CLUES: Menander ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 30 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Bonus Eventus (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Menander
  - This man names a villa in Pompeii containing a fresco of him seated reading one of his works. [PWR]
  - In one of his plays, confusion over one character nursing a baby assumed to be hers threatens to derail the wedding between Plangon and Moschion (Mohss-kee-own). [PWR]
  - Saint Paul's phrase "Bad company corrupts good character" as well as Caesar's (*) "the die is cast" are said to be derived from this author, who wrote about Demeas and his lover Chrysis in The Girl from Samos.
  - Pan narrates one of his plays in which he causes Sostratos to fall in love with the title character's daughter before he saves that man, Knemon, from drowning in a well.
  - For 10 points, identify this New Comedy author of Dyskolos. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Pompeii (The trio of skeletons is in the House of Menander and may or may not have been looters, depending on the interpretation.)
  - Robert Curtis argued that jars discovered at this site were labeled "pure" to indicate they were for abstinent people in general, not that they were kosher. [PWR]
  - The presence of ancient looters at this site is evidenced by a piece of graffiti declaring "house tunneled" and a trio of skeletons with picks and shovels. [PWR]
  - Begram is the possible origin of a stool-leg's ivory caryatid unearthed at this site, which depicts the goddess (*) Lakshmi. [PWR]
  - This center of garum production has a mosaic that declares 'Cave Canem,' or Beware the Dog, within the House of the Tragic Poet.
  - Cadaveric spasms attributed to thermal shock resulted in the contorted postures preserved by Giuseppe Fiorelli.
  - For 10 points, the House of the Faun is located in what city, where plastered bodies show the last moments of Vesuvius's victims? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Menander [or Menandros]
  - This author's surprising posthumous reputation as a realist led Aristophanes of Byzantium to ask of this author and life, "which of you imitated the other?" This contemporary of Diphilus and Philemon originated the maxim that "He whom the gods love dies young" in The Double Deceiver.
  - George Bernard Shaw suggested The Rape of the Locks as a title for a fragment by this author, in which a mercenary cuts off his common-law wife's hair.
  - A prologue recited by the god Pan opens a play by this author in which the title character's rescue from a well leads him to accept the love-struck Sostratos as a son-in-law.
  - This author of Girl from Samos and Perikeiromene influenced Moliere with a play about Knemon, a curmudgeonly old man.
  - For 10 points, name this 4th-century BC playwright of Dyskolos, the only surviving exemplar of Athenian New Comedy. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Buddhism [accept specific schools of Buddhism, such as Theravada Buddhism; accept Greco-Buddhism] (Pushyamitra Shunga offered the bounties on Buddhist holy men. Milinda was the Pali name for Menander I, and the text is also called the Milinda Panha.)
  - W.
  - W.
  - Tarn argued that holy men of this religion, laden with a one hundred gold coin bounty on their heads, benefited from a series of conquests by the Euthydemid dynasty.
  - A ruler who converted to this religion selected Sagala as his capital over the city of Bucephala.
  - Coins that suggest a kingdom's syncretism with this religion were issued by Demetrius the Invincible.
  - A set of conversations ending in King Menander's conversion to this religion form the 1st-century text "Milinda's Questions." A "starving" figure found at one of this religion's sites in Sikri reflects Greek influence on the Gandhara art style.
  - This religion's spread to Hellenistic Asian cities like Taxila can be seen in Indo-Greek coinage that depicts the dharmachakra wheel.
  - For 10 points, name this religion promoted by Ashoka. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Gnosticism [or word forms like Gnostics; accept Ophites, Sethianism, Simonians, Menanders, Basilideans, Valentinianism, or Marcionism until "Irenaeus" is read]
  - A text from this tradition proclaims "Whoever does not dance does not know what happens" as part of a "Round Dance"; people in that text from this tradition alternately see a man standing on the shore as bald, short, handsome, or a child.
  - The line "I am the wife and the virgin" appears in Thunder, Perfect Mind, a work from this movement, whose name was coined by an opponent, Irenaeus.
  - Due to usage of the word pleroma, Paul was claimed to be a member of this movement.
  - Elaine Pagels translated texts from this tradition at Nag Hammadi, including the Apocryphon of John and the Gospel of Thomas.
  - This set of traditions posited a dualistic world ruled by a "Supreme Being" and a Demiurge.
  - For 10 points, name this early Christian set of beliefs, named for the Greek word for "knowledge." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The Greek etymology for this foot may mean "beaten back," reflecting their original use in marching rhymes that later evolved into dramatic choruses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: anapests):
    Name this triple poetic foot that in Classical verse is two short syllables followed by one long syllable, making it the reverse of the dactyl. As a mnemonic, the name of this foot can itself be pronounced as one.
  Part 2 (ans: catalexis [or catalectic verse or poetry]):
    Greek tragedy and comedy choruses in anapestic tetrameter usually used this device on alternating lines. In regularly metered lines using this device, the last expected syllable in the meter is dropped, making it the opposite of headlessness.
  Part 3 (ans: Menander [or Menandros] (The play is Dyskolos.)):
    This playwright used catalectic iambic tetrameter recited to aulos accompaniment for one scene in a play in which Sostratos saves the curmudgeonly Knemon from a well.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: A text made of this material consists of fragmentary Sanskrit treatises on medicine and sparked an archaeological craze in Kucha ("KOO-chuh") in the 1890s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: birch bark [prompt on bark; prompt on birch; reject "wood"]):
    Name this material used to make the Bower Manuscript. Along with palm leaves, this material was commonly used to make Ancient South Asian texts like the Gandharan Manuscripts.
  Part 2 (ans: Ashoka the Great [or Asoka]):
    The Gandharan Manuscripts were written using Kharosthi ("kuh-ROASH-tee"), which was contemporaneous with the Brahmi script utilized by this Mauryan emperor to write his Rock and Pillar Edicts.
  Part 3 (ans: Menander [or Menander I Soter; or Milinda; accept Milindapanha or Questions of Milinda]):
    Other texts written on birch bark include a dialogue between the monk Nagasena and this 2nd-century BC king. This Indo-Greek king issued coins featuring Athena holding a thunderbolt alongside text in Kharosthi.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Friedrich Muller proposed a now-defunct hypothesis that these people spoke the Tarim-based Tocharian ("toh-KAR-ian") language based on the word "Tokharoi" possibly used to identify them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yuezhi ("y'WEH-jurr") [or Rouzhi or Ruzhi; accept Greater Yuezhi or Da Yuezhi; accept Lesser Yuezhi or Xiao Yuezhi; accept Xihou; accept Arki or Yarki; accept specific branches like Guishuang; or Shuangmi; or Xidun; or Dumi; or Xiumi]):
    Name this Central Asian people whose "Greater" branch migrated into the Ili Valley in the 160s BCE after the Xiongnu ("sh'yung-noo") defeated them. Kujula Kadphises ("koo-JOO-la kad-FYE-seez") later united these people and founded the Kushan Empire.
  Part 2 (ans: Greeks [or Hellenes or Hellenic or Hellenistic; accept Greco-Bactrians; accept Indo-Greeks; accept Macedonians; accept Ionians or Aegeans; accept Yavanas or Yavanarajya; accept Dayuan or Daxia] (The Indo-Greek king Menander I Soter was known as Milinda in Pali.)):
    This ethnicity's namesake Bactrian kingdom was invaded by the Yuezhi after the Wusun drove the latter south. The Milindapanha ("muh-LEEN-duh-PAHN-yuh") purportedly reported a dialogue between Nagasena and a king of this ethnicity.
  Part 3 (ans: horses [or Ferghana horses; or Nisean horses; or Turkoman horses or Turkmene; accept equines or Equus; accept mares or stallions; accept heavenly horses or Tian Ma or Dayuan Ma]):
    Greco-Bactrian coins often depict Yuezhi warriors riding these other animals, whose Ferghana type was noted by Zhang Qian ("jong ch'yen") to have "sweat blood." Bactria supplied these animals for Bessus and his cavalry at Gaugamela.

[B4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A Stoic in this book who remains calm during a severe storm owns a copy of the now-lost fifth book of Epictetus's Discourses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Attic Nights [or Noctes Atticae]):
    Name this 20-book miscellany that Aulus Gellius began writing over a long winter near Athens. This work contains important fragments of early Roman authors, such as the historian Claudius Quadrigarius.
  Part 2 (ans: Menander [or Menandros] (The unnamed play is Dyskolos.)):
    Attic Nights contains a unique comparison between Caecilius Statius's Plocium and its original by this Greek playwright. In another play by this writer, Knemon has a change of heart after Sostratos saves him from a well.
  Part 3 (ans: lions [accept "Androcles and the Lion"; prompt on big cats or felines or felids]):
    Attic Nights contains the earliest extant version of a story later popularized by Aesop about Androcles, who befriends one of these animals after removing a painful thorn from its paw.

[B5] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem often ascribed to this author is set while the narrator "sleeps alone" at midnight, when "the moon and the Pleiades have set" and "the time is passing." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sappho [or Psappha]):
    Name this female Greek poet from Lesbos who wrote of an "iridescent-throned" goddess descending in a chariot pulled by sparrows in the "Hymn to Aphrodite."
  Part 2 (ans: Menander [or Menandros]):
    A recurring Greek literary tale in which Sappho jumps off a rock into the sea after being rejected by Phaon first appeared in a play by this author. This comedic playwright wrote of the grouchy old man Knemon in Dyskolos.
  Part 3 (ans: Giacomo Leopardi):
    "The Last Song of Sappho" is a poem from this author's Canti. This Italian poet's reflections on the relative merits of Latin and modern Romance languages occupy many pages of his massive set of notes, the Zibaldone ("dzee-ball-DOH-nay").

[B6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Northrop Frye argued that this genre was characterized by a movement from pistis to gnosis, or false belief to awareness, in a chapter from The Anatomy of Criticism on "The Mythos of Spring." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: comedy):
    Name this genre, which Aristotle proposed was derived from the phallic processions of Dionysus. Its varieties include satire and farce.
  Part 2 (ans: Menander):
    This author of Dyskolos was the foremost representative of Athenian New Comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Bergson [or Henri-Louis Bergson]):
    This French philosopher wrote that the methods of comedy are repetition, inversion, and reciprocal interference in his essay collection Laughter. This author of Matter and Memory was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for some reason.

[B7] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Classicists constantly bemoan the loss of many texts from antiquity. For 10 points each, answer the following on fragmentary works from Ancient Greece recovered in Egypt:
  Part 1 (ans: Sappho):
    This poet's "Ode to Aphrodite" is her only work to survive in full, and the 2014 discovery of her "Brothers Poem" has sparked a new wave of scholarship.
  Part 2 (ans: Menander):
    Most of this playwright's work has also been rediscovered in Egypt. This man was one of the greats of Athenian New Comedy, which focused on everyday life. Only his Dyskolos survives as almost complete.
  Part 3 (ans: Hellenica Oxyrhynchia):
    This anonymous work, unearthed at Oxyrhynchus and part named for that town, is otherwise named for the history of Xenophon that follows on from Thucydides.

[B8] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Leadin: In the text named for this man, this man has a conversation about whether the frame, seat, or draught pole constitute a chariot, leading this man to be told designations are "purely conceptional." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milinda [accept Menander]):
    Name this 2nd-century ruler, who converses with the wise sage Nagasena in a dialogue titled after "The Questions" that are posed to him.
  Part 2 (ans: Ancient Buddhism [or Buddhist]):
    The Questions of Milinda is a Theravada text designed to convert ancient Greeks to this religion. King Kanishka of the Kushans spread it from India to the west.
  Part 3 (ans: yona [or yavana]):
    Give either the Pali or Sanskrit word used to describe those who spoke Greek within India. A king described by this term, Antiochus II, is mentioned in one of the edicts of Ashoka.

[B9] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a play with a prologue delivered by Pan, whose worshippers make up the chorus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Menander [or Menandros]):
    Name this Greek playwright. He created the old man Knemon, who is bullied into going to a party at the end of a play in which his daughter marries Sostratos.
  Part 2 (ans: Bodmer papyri [or Bodmer papyrus; or obvious equivalents]):
    The only near-complete text of Menander's Dyskolos was found on one of these ancient Egyptian manuscripts named for the Swiss scholar who purchased them. The 66th of these documents contains one of the oldest near-complete texts of the Gospel of John.
  Part 3 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Menander is the foremost representative of the New Comedy, in contrast to the Old Comedy, which is defined almost solely from the surviving works of this playwright contemporary with the great tragedians.

[B10] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Only one of this author's plays survives almost entirely, but fragmented ones include "The Shield" and "Girl from Samos." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Menander):
    Name this Greek playwright of New Comedy, who wrote about a grumpy old man in Dyskolos.
  Part 2 (ans: Gorgias):
    In Dyskolos, this man, the stepson of the miser Knemon, helps Sostratos to win the hand in marriage of Knemon's daughter. He later saves Knemon from falling down his own well.
  Part 3 (ans: The Wasps [or Sphekes]):
    Another grumpy old man in Greek comedy is Philocleon, who is addicted to going to court despite his son Anticleon's attempts to stop him, in this play by Aristophanes.

[B11] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The surviving text of this play is missing about 160 lines, making it the second-best-preserved of its author's works. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samia [or The Girl from Samos]):
    Name this play in which a long series of misunderstandings between Chrysis, Demeas, Nikeratos, and others ends in the happy marriage of Moschion and Plangon, whose illegitimate baby had replaced Chrysis's dead child.
  Part 2 (ans: Menander [or Menandros]):
    Samia was written by this Greek playwright of Dyskolos, the best-surviving representative of the New Comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: shield [accept The Shield of Heracles]):
    Menander's play Aspis is named for one of these items. A poem about one of these items that belongs to Heracles was attributed to Hesiod and describes Heracles's fight against Cycnus.
