=== STOCK CLUES: Man Ray ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 37 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Man Ray (The powerbreak clue refers to a rayograph.)
  - Berenice Abbot worked as an assistant to this photographer, who, like her, championed the empty street views of Eugene Atget . [PWR]
  - This photographer captured another artist nude with ink over her palm and forearm, standing behind a printing wheel. [PWR]
  - With their lover, this photographer developed a technique of exposing a developing image to a flash of light called solarisation. [PWR]
  - The torso of that lover, Lee Miller, appears in one of this photographer's (*) namesake photograms. [PWR]
  - A woman rests her head next to an upright African mask in this photographer's Noir et blanche, and his portrait of an artist wearing a hat and pearls is the label of the Belle Haleine  perfume bottle.
  - In a photo by this man, Kiki de Montparnasse's nude back has two f-holes painted on it.
  - For 10 points, Le Violon d'Ingres was taken by what Surrealist? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 On Cinema at the Buzzer (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: France [or French Republic or Republique francaise] (The second film is Man Ray's The Starfish.)
  - The British Board of Film Classification reported that a film from this country about a priest who lusts after a general's wife was "so cryptic as to be almost meaningless," but "if there is a meaning, it is doubtless objectionable." A mirror with a word meaning "beautiful" on it shatters at the end of a short film from this country in which a man buys a starfish in a jar. [PWR]
  - The (*) Seashell and the Clergyman is an early surrealist film from this country.
  - A hearse is pulled by a camel and a dancer is filmed from beneath a pane of glass in a short film from this country that originally accompanied a 1924 ballet performance, and which was co-written by Francis Picabia .
  - For 10 points, name this country that produced the Dadaist film Entr'acte . [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Man Ray [accept Emmanuel Radnitzky before mention] <ES>
  - A self-portrait by this photographer consists of a handprint on a piece of cardboard above a doorbell. [PWR]
  - Fashion photography by this artist includes a picture of Denise Poiret standing in front of a Brancusi ["bran-KOOSH"] sculpture. [PWR]
  - This photographer threw salt and pepper onto a piece of film for one scene of a film he made without a camera, Return to Reason. [PWR]
  - A frequent model of this photographer lays her head down horizontally next to a vertical African mask in (*) Noir et Blanche. [PWR]
  - Two hands can be seen inside of kissing heads in a distinctive solarized photogram made by this artist.
  - This photographer's most famous image depicts Kiki de Montparnasse nude with f-holes on her back, titled Le Violon d'Ingres ["luh vee-oh-lawn dang"].
  - For 10 points, name this American Dadaist who created namesake "graphs" with photosensitive paper and was born Emmanuel Radnitzky. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky; accept rayographs]
  - To create one portrait, this artist flipped and superimposed the negative of a photo onto the positive image of a woman pushing her hands onto cracked glass.
  - This photographer placed circular glass beads on a fashion mannequin's upturned face for another photo.
  - In an image by this artist, a woman lays her white head on a table, which contrasts with a black African mask she holds.
  - This artist of Glass Tears used a slinky in his best-known photogram; he used his name with the suffix "ograph" to name those photograms.
  - His photographic subjects included the mononymous Kiki, Dora Maar, Peggy Guggenheim, and another artist's alter-ego Rrose Selavy.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer of Le violon d'Ingres and images of a cross-dressing Marcel Duchamp, his fellow Dadaist. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky until it is read] Tiebreaker
  - In one film by this director, four young people wearing stocking masks jump into a pool repeatedly then eventually disappear; later a man and a woman come to the title location and are turned into statues.
  - A sculpture by this manwas inspired by a certain novel's line about the chance meeting of an umbrella on a dissecting table.
  - With an alphabetically prior artist, this director of The Mysteries of the Chateau of Dice can be seen playing a game of chess, then suddenly disappearing in Rene Clair's Entr'acte.
  - This artist's 1919 gouache called Seguidilla was the first of his "aerographs," which he made using an airbrush.
  - He wrapped a sewing machine in an army blanket and tied it with yellow string to create The Enigma of Isidore Ducasse.
  - He painted f-holes onto the back of a photograph of Kiki Montparnasse to create The Violin of Ingres.
  - Known for photographing Marcel Duchamp as Rrose Selavy, for 10 points, identify this surrealist and Dadaist who was born Emmanuel Radnitzky. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radetzsky]
  - This man put his handprint on a white pentagon in a work titled Autoportrait, and showed a group of primary-colored stick figures riding horses and holding yellow tools in his AD 1914. [PWR]
  - He showed a flower with several yellow and one long spiky green leaf with an eye in front of a petal in his Misunderstood. [PWR]
  - He wrapped a sewing machine in wool and string in one work. [PWR]
  - Meret Oppenheim posed nude for him in a few (*) photographs, and he invented the solarization technique. [PWR]
  - One work by this artist of The Enigma of Isidore Ducasse shows the back of a nude woman with two f-holes cut into her skin, entitled The Violin of Ingres.
  - For 10 points, identify this artist who took a series of pictures of Rrose Selavy, the female altar-ego of fellow Dada artist Marcel Duchamp. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The street photographer Weegee used this phenomenon to name a series of experimental photos of subjects including Marilyn Monroe and Liberace ("lib-er-AH-chee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: distortion [or Distortions; or word forms like distorting; accept lens distortion]):
    Barrel, pincushion, and mustache are the three forms of what phenomenon in photography? This phenomenon names a series of over 200 photos by Andre Kertesz ("KARE-tace"), mostly of elongated female nudes.
  Part 2 (ans: fisheye lens):
    Barrel distortion can be achieved using this type of ultra-wide-angle lens, whose name reflects the visual experience of an animal underwater.
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky] (The photograph is Le Violon d'Ingres.)):
    Bill Brandt, who achieved distortion in his photos of nudes via wide-angle close-ups, studied under this artist. This pioneer of the photogram painted two f-holes onto a model's back for a 1924 photograph.

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A type cylinder and measuring tape are among many material "thoughts" attached to a wooden head in a work from this movement called Spirit of the Age: Mechanical Head. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dada [or Dadaism]):
    Name this movement which included that "assemblage" by Raoul Hausmann. "Readymades" from this artistic movement include Bicycle Wheel and L.H.O.O.Q.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky; accept rayograph]):
    In a "self-portrait," this Dadaist placed a bronze head in a box cushioned with newspaper. In one photograph, this artist depicted his muse lying next to an African mask, and he named a kind of camera-less photography after himself.
  Part 3 (ans: Sophie Taeuber-Arp [or Sophie Henriette Gertrud Taeuber]):
    This Zurich Dadaist composed a series of bulbous "Dada heads" out of polychromed wood. This artist collaborated with Theo van Doesburg and Jean Arp on the interior redesign of the Cafe Aubette in Strasbourg.

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist covered a nude woman lying on a table with food in a work intended as a spring fertility rite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Meret Oppenheim):
    Name this artist of Cannibal Feast who appears in a series of nude photographs next to an etching press. This artist used X-rays to make a photograph of her skull and placed two shoes upside down to create her work My Nurse.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    Meret Oppenheim was photographed nude at an etching press by this photographer. Another photograph by this photographer shows a nude woman's torso with arms raised to look like a minotaur.
  Part 3 (ans: Dada [or Dadaism; or Dadaist]):
    Man Ray was a photographer from this anti-art movement that also included Marcel Duchamp.

[B4] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This woman is shown from the neck up in Ed Ruscha (roo-shay)'s article "Five 1965 Girlfriends." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eve Babitz ("bah-bich")):
    Name this author and artist, who created the album cover for Buffalo Springfield Again. Julian Wasser photographed this artist nude playing chess with a clothed Marcel Duchamp at the Pasadena Art Museum.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    In May 2022, this artist's photograph Le Violon d'Ingres, which depicts Kiki de Montparnasse, became the most expensive photograph ever sold. This artist also depicted himself kissing Kiki in a photogram.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo Picasso):
    This artist created many paintings of his lover Dora Maar, most famously as The Weeping Woman. During their abusive relationship, Maar took photographs of this artist creating Guernica.

[B5] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Do you love 1920s Paris? Because this author does. What a time to be alive if you were an artist of any kind. For ten points...
  Part 1 (ans: Man Ray):
    Name this surrealist photographer who spent the majority of his career in Paris. Known for his risque, boundary-pushing photography whose subject was mostly women. Famous works include, 'Le Violon d'Ingres', 'Glass Tears', and 'Object to be Destroyed'.
  Part 2 (ans: H.D. [accept Hilda Doolittle]):
    This modernist poet and novelist was often photographed by Man Ray. She was also a founder of the Imagist movement with Ezra Pound. Some of her works written under her pen name include HERmione, Sea Garden, and the poem 'Sea Poppies'.
  Part 3 (ans: Bryher):
    Name this longtime partner of H.D. Her birth name was Annie Winnefred Ellerman, and she mostly used her money to support other artists. This person herself was a novelist and feminist, quietly resenting her father for not allowing her to pursue 'unladylike' hobbies.

[B6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Berenice Abbott is best known for capturing images of the sign for a gunsmith shop and headquarters of the police department in this city during the early 1900s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Name this city, the setting of Abbott's Automat. This city is also the location for her image of Edward Hopper working in his studio.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    Abbott served as this artist's assistant while studying in Paris. This artist created a monochrome black-and-white work featuring a large lip floating in the sky and a woman reclining beside a chess table.
  Part 3 (ans: physics [prompt on science]):
    In the late 1950s, Abbott created many photographs for high school textbooks in this academic subject, including one that illustrates the conservation of momentum as two balls collide.

[B7] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This sculptor's Traccia Table consists of a table with legs in the shape of birds' feet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Meret Oppenheim):
    Name this sculptor who used curved plaster to imitate a mirror in Miss Gardenia and who covered a teacup, a saucer, and a spoon in fur to make a sculpture simply titled Object.
  Part 2 (ans: Surrealism):
    Oppenheim was one of the leading female members of this art movement. The bowler hat loving Belgian artist Rene Magritte was part of this movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [the second photograph is Le Violon d'Ingres]):
    This artist photographed Oppenheim topless with her left arm covered in ink in front of the flywheel of a printing press. Another photograph by this artist shows his model and lover Kiki of Montparnasse with f-holes on her back, evoking a musical instrument.

[B8] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jean Crotti created a now-lost sculpture of this artist made out of wire and plastic eyeballs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    Name this artist. He placed zinc templates of his silhouette against origami papers to create his own self-portraits, some of which are marked with "[this artist] tore this quickly."
  Part 2 (ans: Dadaism):
    A portrait of Duchamp as Rrose Selavy on a perfume bottle first appeared on the cover of New York City's magazine dedicated to this movement. This anti-materialist movement got its nonsensical name from a word meaning "hobby-horse."
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitsky]):
    The aforementioned photograph of Rrose Selavy was taken by this artist. Two F-holes appear on the back of Kiki de Montparnasse in one of this artist's other photographs.

[B9] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the 1930s, this woman sought to become the "most painted woman in the world" by commissioning portraits of herself for her club from artists such as Picasso. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Suzy Solidor [or Suzanne Louise Marie Marion]):
    Name this openly lesbian owner of the nightclub La Vie Parisienne ("lah vee pah-ree-SYEN"). The best-known portrait of her was made by her lover, the Art Deco artist and Polish aristocrat Tamara de Lempicka ("lem-PITS-kah").
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    As part of her project, Solidor was photographed by this artist, who added an f-shaped hole to the back of Kiki de Montparnasse in his photograph Le violon d'Ingres ("luh VEE-oh-lohn DON-gruh").
  Part 3 (ans: Francis Picabia (The other painting is Machine Turn Quickly.)):
    Among the many portraits Solidor commissioned was an Expressionist one by this artist, who also portrayed a bare-shouldered Gertrude Stein against a green mountain landscape. Another of this artist's paintings shows two gears labeled "femme" and "homme."

[B10] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first standardised examples of these items used the horses on the Parthenon Marbles as inspiration for the design of the knights' heads. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chess sets [or chess pieces; accept (Lewis) chessmen]):
    Name these items, early examples of which include a set of game pieces found on the Isle of Lewis in Scotland, and which typically include four knights and four rooks.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    This photographer and passionate chess player designed the first modern chess set to be composed entirely of abstract geometrical forms. The back of Kiki de Montparnasse is the subject of their photograph Le Violon d'Ingres [d'ANG-ruh].
  Part 3 (ans: Howard Staunton):
    The first standard chess set design, which remains the tournament standard, is named after this person. This English chess player, a contemporary of Paul Morphy, organised the first ever international chess tournament in 1851.

[B11] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the pioneering street photographer and flaneur ("flaw-NURR") Eugene Atget ("aht-ZHAY"), for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Paris):
    Most of Atget's work was done in this capital city. This city's Boulevard du Temple was where Louis Daguerre took the first candid photograph of a person.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    Atget's work was first "discovered" by Berenice Abbott and this surrealist, who depicted Kiki of Montparnasse with f-holes on her back in his photograph Violon d'Ingres ("vee-oh-LAWN DAN-gruh").
  Part 3 (ans: Brassai [or Gyula Halasz]):
    A meeting with Atget helped inspire this pseudonymous Hungarian-born artist, who was also tutored by Andre Kertesz ("CARE-tace"), to take up photography. He published his first collection, Paris by Night, in 1933.

[B12] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man was responsible for the typography of most Bauhaus books and he also created a set design for the opera Tales of Hoffmann. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Laszlo Moholy-Nagy):
    Name this Hungarian artist who founded the New Bauhaus in Chicago and created the kinetic sculpture Light-Space Modulator.
  Part 2 (ans: Ludwig Miesvan der Rohe [accept either underlined portion]):
    The New Bauhaus later became the Institute of Design at the Illinois Institute of Technology, whose campus was mostly designed by this architect known for the saying "less is more."
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    Moholy-Nagy created several cameraless photographs called photograms by exposing everyday objects to light, a technique also used by this photographer of Violon d'Ingres.

[B13] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist made a bracelet using this substance and sold it to the designer Elsa Schiaparelli. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fur of a Chinese gazelle):
    Name this substance that Meret Oppenheim used to cover a teacup, saucer, and spoon after Pablo Picasso made an off-hand remark to her. It was later acquired by the MoMA's director Alfred Barr.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitsky]):
    Meret Oppenheim dallied with the surrealists, including for a set of photographs taken by this artist in which she is shown using a printing press. This photographer also made The Violin of Ingres.
  Part 3 (ans: bird feet [accept chicken feet]):
    The National Museum of Women in the Arts also contains Oppenheim's unusual sculpture of a table that has these objects as its legs.

[B14] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The highlight of a 1966 symposium on this art form was John Latham's "Skoob Towers," made of books. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: auto-destructive art [or equivalents that communicate the idea of art that destroys itself]):
    Identify this type of art pioneered by Gustav Metzger, who protested nuclear proliferation with works made out of acid and nylon. Jean Tinguely's 1960 sculpture Homage to New York was this type of artwork.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Serra):
    This artist created his Hours of the Day out of Cor-Ten Steel, which is designed to corrode over time. He argued that "To remove the work is to destroy it" during a controversy over one of his sculptures in New York's Federal Plaza.
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    This Dadaist combined a metronome and a photograph of an eye into the readymade Object To Be Destroyed, which student protesters actually destroyed in 1957. He also created the photograph Le Violon d'Ingres (le vee-oh-lohn d'AHN-greh).

[B15] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about photograms, which are images made without a camera, by putting objects directly on photosensitive paper and exposing them to sunlight.
  Part 1 (ans: Man Ray):
    This man named a class of photograms after himself, and made many of hands, springs, and rolls of film. His other photographs include "Le Violon d'Ingres," a photo of the back of a nude woman painted with violin holes.
  Part 2 (ans: Imogen Cunningham):
    This photographer took many photograms of plants and became known for botanical images. Judy Dater took a photograph in which this artist is surprised by the nude Twinka Thiebaud popping out from behind a tree.
  Part 3 (ans: f/64 [pronounced "f stop 64"]):
    Cunningham was a cofounder of this group along with Sonya Noskowiak, Willard Van Dyke, and Ansel Adams. It is named after a small aperture size which ensures clarity.

[B16] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A man looks out a window as the rest of his family grieves the loss of a dying girl, in a really early artwork by Henry Peach Robinson that was made using this technique and is titled Fading Away. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: photomontage [prompt on "collage"]):
    Identify this photographic technique pioneered by Berlin-based artists such as Hannah Hoch and Kurt Schwitters, in which positives and negatives from different sources are printed on a single piece of printing paper.
  Part 2 (ans: Dada):
    Hoch and Schwitters belonged to the Berlin arm of this post-World War I movement developed in Zurich at the Cabaret Voltaire and later exemplified by the readymades of Duchamp.
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    This pseudonymous Dada/surrealist/weird artist produced a photomontage of Picasso's lover Dora Maar, and photographed Marcel Duchamp in drag as his alter-ego Rrose Selavy.

[B17] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This woman's face is likely, and morbidly, the "most kissed of all time" because it inspired the ubiquitous CPR mannequin Rescue Anne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L'Inconnue de la Seine [accept La Belle Italienne]):
    Give the French-language name for this anonymous young woman whose body was plucked from the water in Paris, and whose death mask became a fashionable turn-of-the-century European parlor decoration.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    In a collaboration with Louis Aragon for Aragon's novel Aurelien, this photographer took eight black- and-white stills of L'Inconnue. He also depicted a woman with violin holes in Le Violon d'Ingres.
  Part 3 (ans: Kiki [or Alice Ernestine Prin]):
    This female model posed for Man Ray's Le Violon d'Ingres. You can give either the real name of the mononym of this "Queen of Montparnasse."

[B18] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist was a co-founder of the Societe Anonyme with Katherine Drier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Man Ray or [Emmanuel Radnitsky]):
    Name this artist who depicted a model with violin fingering holes on her back and a headwrap in his "Violin d' Ingres," as well as a cloth-covered sewing machine in a muted homage to his Jewish garment-working roots.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp.):
    This artist's Rotary Glass Plates "nearly decapitated Man Ray" when it malfunctioned. He may be better known for The Large Glass and Nude Descending a Staircase
  Part 3 (ans: fur [or hair, I suppose]):
    Man Ray's sometime companion Meret Oppenheim is best-known for the surrealist piece Object, which is a teacup, saucer, and spoon all covered with this.

[B19] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist slapped Paul von Hindenburg's face on top of an exotic dancer's body in the top-right corner of a collage that sets von Hindenburg among the anti-modernists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hannah Hoch):
    Name this German artist of the Berlin Dadaists. She is known for her photomontages, such as Cut with the Kitchen-Knife Dada through the Last Weimar Beer-Belly Cultural Epoch of Germany.
  Part 2 (ans: Dedication to Oskar Panizza [or The Funeral: Dedication to Oskar Panizza; or The Funeral Procession; or To Oskar Panizza]):
    George Grosz, a sometime Dadaist whose head was included in Hoch's collage, painted this demented vision of a "dance of death" that shows a skeleton chugging alcohol on top of a coffin amidst a throng of citydwellers.
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    This Dadaist created a series of abstract paintings he called "aerographs" as well as other paintings like A Night at Saint-Jean de Luz. He was also a photographer who took pictures of Marcel Duchamp in drag.

[B20] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about the photographer Bill Brandt, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky; prompt on just "Ray"]):
    Brandt once worked in the studio of this Dada photographer, who used colored paper to create his The Rope Dancer Accompanies Herself with Her Shadows and photographed a woman's backside in Le Violon d'Ingres.
  Part 2 (ans: Brassai [or Gyula Halasz or Jules Halasz]):
    Brandt drew influence from this Hungarian-born photographer who wrote books like Henry Miller: The Paris Years and Proust in the Power of Photography but may be best known for his 1932 monograph, Paris By Night. He's most commonly known by a one-word pseudonym.
  Part 3 (ans: London, England):
    Besides his nudes, Brandt may be best known for his photos of the ruins of this city. This city is home to an Aquatics Center designed by Zaha Hadid, and a Norman Foster building nicknamed for its resemblance to a type of cucumber.

[B21] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A journal by this name contains an introduction hoping that a few young people in Switzerland might wish to proclaim their independence, and was posted at the door to the place of this name. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Cabaret Voltaire):
    Name this nightclub in Zurich founded by Hugo Ball and others as a hotbed for the Dada crowd, where Ball recited his phonetic poem Karawane while wearing a special suit.
  Part 2 (ans: Emmy Hennings):
    This wife of Hugo Ball posted three poems in the Cabaret Voltaire journal - "Morphine," "Twilight Song," and "The Perhaps Last Flight." She also acted in shows at the Cabaret like Life of a Man with her husband.
  Part 3 (ans: Man Ray (or Emmanuel Radnitzky)):
    An iron with a row of tacks attached to the bottom called The Gift was a readymade at the Cabaret by this Dada photographer, who famously showed a cross-dressing Marcel Duchamp in some photos, and worked with him on the film Anemic Cinema.
