=== STOCK CLUES: Gabriel Garcia Marquez ===
Tossup questions: 16 found, 84 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 27 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Absolute Cinema (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Roderick [or Rodrigo; accept Rodrigo D: No Futuro or Rodrigo D: No Future; accept Rodrigo Prieto; accept Rodrigo Garcia; accept Roderick Jaynes] (Rodrigo Garcia is Gabriel Garcia Marquez's son.)
  - Note to players: The answer is a first name with counterparts across languages, like "Peter," "Pierre," and "Pedro;" you may give any variation of the name in the languages used in the films.This is the first name of a punk teenager who, in a 1990 crime film set in Medellin, is said by the title to have "No Future." A cinematographer with this first name used Christmas lights that he dubbed the "Killer Pizza Lights" in a film adapted from a spy novel by Eileen Chang.
  - This is the first name of the director of hyperlink films like Nine Lives, who is Claudia Sheinbaum's brother-in-law and the son of a Nobel-winning author. [PWR]
  - The DOP of Lust, Caution and 8 Mile shares this first name with the (*) pseudonym used for editing jobs by the Coen brothers.
  - A cinematographer with this first name shot films like Silence and Brokeback Mountain as part of his collaborations with Ang Lee and Martin Scorsese after breaking through in his native country with Amores perros.
  - For 10 points, the Mexican cinematographer who shot Barbie has what first name and the surname Prieto? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
  - In a story by this author, a man and a woman meet every night in their dreams, but the man can never remember the nonsense phrase that would let him recognize her while awake. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, a girl transformed into a giant spider replaces a creature suggested by the Church to merely be a Norwegian. [PWR]
  - A father promises to bury a doctor against his neighbors' wishes in one of this author's many stories to be translated by (*) Gregory Rabassa. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, a family uses a chicken coop to house a mute old man with large, dirty wings.
  - This author's story "Leaf Storm" introduced a fictional town that Melquiades visits with trinkets and ice.
  - For 10 points, Macondo is the setting of what author's novel One Hundred Years of Solitude? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
  - A posthumous 2018 collection of this author's articles takes its title from pieces about the death of Wilma Montesi. [PWR]
  - While working as a journalist, this author purportedly saw a skull with copper hair tumble out of a crypt that was being destroyed to make way for a hotel. [PWR]
  - In 1955, this author wrote 14 newspaper articles about the sole survivor of a ship that sank from the weight of its contraband. [PWR]
  - The Scandal of the Century and The Story of a (*) Shipwrecked Sailor collect this man's journalism, which may have inspired his novel in which Sierva Maria is sent to a convent to be exorcized of rabies, titled Of Love and Other Demons, and his novella in which the Vicario twins avenge their sister by stabbing Santiago Nasar. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Colombian author of Chronicle of a Death Foretold. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: solitude [or soledad; accept One Hundred Years of Solitude or Cien anos de soledad or "The Solitude of Latin America" or "Intimate Diary of Solitude"] (Samper shoots a stand-in for Gabriel Garcia Marquez.)
  - Makeup artist Mariquita  Samper shoots an author in a mock "intimate diary" of this concept from Giannina Braschi's Empire of Dreams.
  - In a Nobel lecture titled for this concept, an author quoted William Faulkner's line "I decline to accept the end of man" and linked colonial accounts to the "outsized reality" of his continent. [PWR]
  - That author smoked 60 cigarettes a day to finish a novel titled for this concept while holed up in a Mexico City apartment where he read (*) Pedro Paramo. [PWR]
  - In a novel titled for this concept, a patriarch who babbles in Latin upon going mad is left tied to a tree, and his great-grandson withdraws to a study after he survives a massacre of banana workers.
  - As that novel titled for this concept begins, a colonel recalls his first time seeing ice as he faces a firing squad.
  - For 10 points, a novel set in Macondo is titled for "One Hundred Years" of what concept? [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [Gabriel Jose de la Concordia Garcia Marquez; prompt on Garcia or Marquez]
  - In a novel by this author, a delivery initially mistaken for coconuts actually consists of skulls sent by the protagonist's torturer.
  - This author was inspired to base a novel on the papers of Daniel O'Leary after reading an unfinished book by his friend Alvaro Mutis (AL-va-roh MOO-tiss).
  - One of this author's characters constantly hears sad whistling coming from his massive testicle.
  - Francisco Franco inspired a 200-year-old character created by this author, who is eaten by vultures after ruling a Caribbean island.
  - In a novel by this author, a mad patriarch who is tied to a chestnut tree has a descendant with a pig's tail who is eaten alive by ants.
  - In that novel by this author of The General in his Labyrinth and The Autumn of the Patriarch, Jose Arcadio Buendia founds the town of Macondo.
  - For 10 points, name this author of One Hundred Years of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Colombia [or Republic of Colombia; or Republica de Colombia] (The second author is Gabriel Garcia Marquez.)
  - A novel set in this country ends with the protagonist gazing up at the aquamarine, egg-shaped mobile that hangs above his baby daughter's empty bed.
  - In that novel set in this country, a character tearfully runs off after listening to a recording of a plane crash and gets gunned down in front of a pool hall.
  - The murder of ex-pilot Ricardo Laverde  becomes an obsession of law professor Antonio Yammara in that novel from this country, The Sound of Things Falling by Juan Gabriel Vasquez.
  - An author from this country created a man who cannot remain a clerk at the River Company of the Caribbean because his letters are too poetic, and who hires Leona Cassiani after mistaking her for a prostitute.
  - In that novel from here, a fall from a ladder while trying to recover a parrot kills Juvenal Urbino .
  - For 10 points, from what country is the author of Love in the Time of Cholera? [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answer] (The first line is about "Sleeping Beauty and the Airplane," the second line is about "Blacaman the Good, Vendor of Miracles," and the penultimate line is about "The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World.")
  - In a story by this author, a man repeatedly toasts to his neighbor on an airplane, a beauty who spends the whole flight asleep. [PWR]
  - This author wrote of a man with gold teeth who laughs while dying of a snakebite, puffing up severely before taking an antidote that he calls "the hand of god in a bottle." In a story by this man, the "Wise Doctors of the Law" spend days searching for a law allowing the President of the Republic to attend the title matriarch's funeral. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, citizens who bury the title figure make his memory "eternal" by painting their housefronts in "gay colors" and expanding their small (*) fishing village. [PWR]
  - This author of "Big Mama's Funeral" wrote a story in which a shockingly tall, beautiful corpse has a handkerchief removed from his face, revealing him to be Esteban.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Leaf Storm, which contains many stories set in Macondo. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Mario Vargas Llosa AND Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Mario Vargas Llosa AND Gabo]
  - Warning: Two answers required. [PWR]
  - One of these authors commemorated the 40th anniversary of one of the other's novels by writing an introduction to it called "Amadis in America." The 1971 doctoral thesis of one of these authors analyzes the other's novels by comparing the act of writing to "Deicide." In 2007, Rodrigo Moya published a photograph of one of these authors smiling, taken 31 years after an incident between them. [PWR]
  - One of these authors denounced the other as (*) "Castro's cortesano," a phrase often mistranslated as "Castro's courtesan." The animosity between them began in Barcelona, where one of them privately consoled the other's wife. [PWR]
  - At a 1976 movie premiere in Mexico City, one of these authors allegedly shouted "That's for what you did to Patricia" right before sucker-punching the other in the face.
  - For 10 points, name these two longtime literary enemies, prominent right-leaning and left-leaning Latin American novelists from Peru and Colombia. [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
  - In a short story by this author, a dentist intentionally makes a tooth removal painful for the corrupt mayor. [PWR]
  - He's not Joyce, but this author of "One of These Days" wrote a newspaper article about the participation of the clergy in a coup d'etat and a novel that opens with a chapter from the perspective of the People.
  - That novel's cruel title character serves his Defense Minister at a banquet and fathers many children that are born two months premature.
  - In another novel, this author wrote about affairs with (*) Pilar Ternera and Petra Cotes, as well as a beautiful woman who ascends into the sky while folding laundry in a novel that begins with a character seeing ice. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Autumn of the Patriarch who depicted the many Jose Arcadios and Aurelianos of the Buendia family in One Hundred Years of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on Marquez]
  - In a short story by this author, Mina argues with her blind grandmother about missing church whilst crafting artificial roses. [PWR]
  - The title character of a novella by this author considers selling a rooster he'd been training to cockfight after failing to receive his (*) pension. [PWR]
  - In another work by this author, a photographer's suicide using gold cyanide is deduced when Dr.
  - Juvenal Urbino smells bitter almonds, and in that novel, Florentino Ariza waits 53 years to be reunited with his teenage sweetheart.
  - For 10 points, name this author of No One Writes to the Colonel and Love in the Time of Cholera. [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answers, prompt on Gabo]
  - One character created by this author is described as having "so much authority that he could have drawn fish out of the sea simply by calling their names." That character weighs almost as much as a horse and has a shirt made for him out of bridal linen. [PWR]
  - Another character created by this author is transformed into a tarantula for disobedience, distracting attention from the title character of a story who is questioned in Latin while captive in a (*) chicken coop. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a short story about a girl who is forced to become a prostitute to repay a debt to her grandmother; that character, Innocent Erendira, also appears in this author's best known novel.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World" and "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings," whose short story "Leaf Storm" is the first appearance of the town of Macondo. [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
  - A character created by this author is so enamored of a new car that he receives as a wedding gift that he pays no attention to the European countryside as he drives. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, a woman pricks her finger on a rose thorn and bleeds to death in a hospital while her husband is denied entrance because visits are only allowed once per week. [PWR]
  - He wrote a story in which a woman seeks spiritual guidance because she can't stop counting her heartbeats. [PWR]
  - A story by this man begins with the killing of (*) crabs during a rainstorm and includes the transformation of a disobedient girl into a tarantula with a human head. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Trail of Your Blood in the Snow" who wrote about a washed up stranger who is kept in a chicken coop in "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings." [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
  - At the conclusion of a book by this author, the protagonist receives her diamond engagement ring back from her captors, whose other gift to her was the 9 millimeter bullet they didn't shoot her with.
  - The exiled Miguel Littin disguises himself as a Uruguayan businessman to return to his home country in a first-person nonfiction book by this author that was burned in heaps by the Pinochet regime.
  - Interviews with Alberto Villamizar (vee-yah-mee-SAR) and Maruja (mah-ROO-hah) Pachon formed the basis for his account of ten prisoners of the "Extraditables." This author of Clandestine in Chile daringly exposed incompetence aboard the Caldas in what was meant to be a puff piece on Luis Alejandro Velasco, forcing the shuttering of his newspaper by Gustavo Rojas Pinilla (ROE-hass pee-NEE-yuh).
  - As a journalist, this author of News of a Kidnapping wrote fourteen editorials for El Espectador that became The Story of a Shipwrecked Sailor.
  - For 10 points, name this nonfiction author better known for creating Macondo, the setting of his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T14] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
  - In a text written by this man, he states that he does not want to embody Tonio Kroger's "dreams of uniting a chaste north to a passionate south." That text by this author defines the "crux" of the title condition as "a lack of conventional means to render our lives believable," and cites an explorer's description of a Patagonian native shocked to see his own reflection in a mirror. [PWR]
  - This author called for literature to create an "opposite utopia" at the end of a work whose opening paragraph discusses Antonio Pigafetta's fanciful account of the New World. [PWR]
  - He claimed that (*) "Latin America neither wants, nor has any reason to be, a pawn without a will of its own," in a speech that quotes a William Faulkner statement delivered on a similar occasion: "I decline to accept the end of man." This man used the title, "The Solitude of Latin America" for the acceptance speech for his 1982 Nobel Prize in Literature.
  - For 10 points, name this Colombian author of One Hundred Years of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T15] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez
  - One of this author's title characters owns a pet ostrich, survives an arsenic-laced birthday cake, and spews green blood after she is finally killed by Ulises.
  - He wrote a short story in which a sane woman is taken in by a mental asylum in spite of her pleas that she only came to use the phone.
  - In a novella, this author described a rooster once owned by Agustin, which the pension-awaiting protagonist refuses to allow to fight.
  - The title character of another of his stories is kept in the chicken coop and believed to be an angel.
  - In one of his novels, the violation of their sister leads the Vicario brothers to kill Santiago Nasar.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Chronicle of a Death Foretold and One Hundred Years of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T16] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [do not accept Marquez]
  - The title character of one of this author's short stories this is called a "piece of cold Wednesday meat" by the men of a village after women tie "junk relics" such as jars of holy water to him.
  - That story by this author ends with villagers planting flowers on cliffs and painting their houses in bright colors in memory of the title character, whose pants are made from a piece of sail.
  - The title character of another of this author's short stories is overshadowed by a woman transformed into a tarantula after being viewed with suspicion by Father Gonzaga.
  - This author wrote two stories subtitled "A Tale for Children," including one in which Elisenda and Pelayo discover an angel on a beach and imprison him in a chicken coop.
  - For 10 points, name this magical realist author of "The Handsomest Drowned Man in the World" and "A Very Old Man With Enormous Wings." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 CULT (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Alleging fraud after his loss in the 1970 general election, this dictator's supporters mobilized an armed wing of his National Popular Alliance, or ANAPO. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustavo Rojas Pinilla):
    Name this military dictator of Colombia who was backed by the M-19 movement. This man's 1957 removal by the bipartisan National Front is said to have marked the end of La Violencia.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Gabriel Jose de la Concordia Garcia Marquez; prompt on partial answers]):
    Rojas suspended publication of the newspaper El Spectador after this journalist contradicted his government's report on a Colombian Navy shipwreck in a series of articles. Rojas's dictatorship also inspired this future Nobel laureate in Literature to write The Autumn of the Patriarch.
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cesar Turbay Ayala):
    In his book News of a Kidnapping, Garcia Marquez records the failed rescue of this president's daughter Diana from the Medellin Cartel. M-19 guerillas seized the Dominican Republic's embassy in Bogota during the presidency of this man, who was hailed for peacefully resolving the crisis.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a foreword, an author commented that "the whole tragedy seems much greater" if this character is sixty-two when she marries a man who then kills her father. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susana San Juan [prompt on San Juan]):
    Name this character, who is lowered into a mine shaft as a child to search for gold, but only finds a skeleton. This woman later goes mad upon the death of her husband Florencio before marrying the title character of a novel set in Mexico.
  Part 2 (ans: Pedro Paramo ):
    Susana San Juan marries the title character of this novel, in which Juan Preciado meets the ghostly inhabitants of Comala while searching for his father.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [accept Gabo; prompt on Garcia or Marquez]):
    This author, who wrote a foreword to Pedro Paramo, admitted to memorizing much of the novel and buying dozens of copies for his friends. Pedro Paramo partly inspired this author's novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A 2006 article by Daniel Eisenberg labelled this translator "textually ignorant" for using an inaccurate older edition of Don Quixote. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edith Grossman):
    Name this prolific Spanish-to-English literary translator. Her renderings of Miguel de Cervantes include a 2003 translation of Don Quixote and a 2016 translation of Exemplary Novels.
  Part 2 (ans: Love in the Time of Cholera [or El amor en los tiempos del colera]):
    Grossman's reputation was enhanced when Oprah's Book Club discussed this novel in 2007. A doctor in this novel discovers that Jeremiah de Saint-Amour has committed suicide and later falls to his death while retrieving his parrot from a mango tree.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Gabo or Gabito]):
    Grossman translated several novels by this Colombian author, who wrote Love in the Time of Cholera.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Near the end of this work, the author quotes William Faulkner's line "I decline to accept the end of man." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez's Nobel acceptance speech [prompt on Nobel acceptance speech by asking, "Whose speech?"; accept BUT DO NOT REVEAL OTHERWISE "The Solitude of Latin America"]):
    Name or describe this work which opens by commenting on the fantastical creatures observed by Antonio Pigafetta during Magellan's first voyage.
  Part 2 (ans: solitude [or soledad; accept "The Solitude of Latin America"; accept One Hundred Years of Solitude or Cien anos de soledad]):
    That speech is titled for [this concept] "of Latin America." Garcia Marquez wrote a novel about the Buendia family titled One Hundred Years of [this concept].
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]):
    In the speech, Garcia Marquez states that he doesn't wish to "embody the illusions" of "uniting a chaste north to a passionate south" like the title character of this European author's novella Tonio Kroger.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A 2021 memoir [emphasize] about this author describes how a bird hit his window shortly before his death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [accept Gabo; accept A Farewell to Gabo and Mercedes]):
    Name this author whose 2014 death was described in his son's memoir A Farewell to [this author] and Mercedes. This author described his attempts to study law in a 2003 New Yorker essay titled "The Challenge."
  Part 2 (ans:  One Hundred Years of Solitude [or Cien anos de soledad]):
    In this Garcia Marquez novel, confused birds fly into windows and die after the death of Ursula, who, like Garcia Marquez, dies on Good Thursday. This novel depicts the Buendia family over several generations.
  Part 3 (ans: a pig's tail [or pig tail; or cola de cerdo; prompt on tail by asking "what kind of tail?"]):
    In One Hundred Years of Solitude, Ursula fears that incestuous relationships will create a child with this physical feature. Her namesake, Amaranta Ursula, later dies while giving birth to a child with this unusual physical feature.

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this series becomes a journalist after he marries the Chinese activist Mei, who dies of malaria in the novel Footsteps. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buru Quartet [or Buru Tetralogy or Tetralogi Buru] (Pramoedya Ananta Toer wrote the series, whose first novel is This Earth of Mankind.)):
    Name this series whose first novel describes the protagonist's courtship of Annelies ("ah-nuh-LEESE"), and the subsequent invalidation of their marriage due to her illegitimacy as a concubine's mixed-race daughter.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Rizal ("ree-SAHL") [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda]):
    The protagonist of the Buru Quartet is compared to this author for being a well-educated rebel. This author created the mestizo Crisostomo Ibarra and his lover, Maria Clara.
  Part 3 (ans: execution by firing squad [accept being shot or killed with guns or similar descriptions] (Gabriel Garcia Marquez wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.)):
    Soldiers in the Indonesian National Revolution often recited Rizal's "My Last Farewell," a poem written before his execution in this manner. Colonel Buendia ("bwen-DEE-ah") faces this manner of execution at the start of One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B7] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a mother fails to recognize ill omens in her son's dream of flying through almond trees in a tinfoil airplane, despite her reputation for dream interpretation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chronicle of a Death Foretold [or Cronica de una muerte anunciada]):
    Name this novel in which Colonel Aponte confiscates a pair of knives from two characters visiting Clotilde Armenta's milk bar. A woman in this novel spends seventeen years writing letters to a fiance who abandoned her.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Gabriel Jose de la Concordia Garcia Marquez; prompt on Gabo or Gabito; prompt on Marquez or Garcia (The other novel is One Hundred Years of Solitude.)):
    This author of Chronicle of a Death Foretold wrote a novel in which Melquiades's manuscript predicts the destruction of Macondo.
  Part 3 (ans: car accident [or equivalents such as car crash or automobile accident; accept being hit by a Mercedes; prompt on being hit by a vehicle or similar] (The novel is The Hour of the Star by Clarice Lispector.)):
    In another novel, Macabea dies in this manner after the fortune teller Madame Carlota predicts her happiness and marriage to a wealthy foreigner named Hans.

[B8] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A fictional version of this author tries to take over the world with an army of Carlos Fuentes clones in The Literary Conference. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cesar Aira):
    Name this author of a novel in which Johann Moritz Rugendas is struck by lightning in the Pampas, An Episode in the Life of a Landscape Painter. He also wrote How I Became a Nun.
  Part 2 (ans: doctor [or physician or other obvious equivalents; prompt on medical professional]):
    In another novel, Aira's nemesis is a man with this profession, Actyn, who tries to prove Aira cannot perform miracles. Juvenal Urbino has this profession in Love in the Time of Cholera.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answers; or Gabriel Jose de la Concordia Garcia Marquez]):
    Love in the Time of Cholera was written by this Colombian author of One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B9] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author called for the stage to be split into a "plane of hallucination," a "plane of reality," and a "plane of memory" in a play about a woman dying on an operating table. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nelson Rodrigues ("NEH-oo-sone ro-DREE-geese") [or Nelson Falcao Rodrigues]):
    Name this self-described "pornographic angel" of the theater. This Brazilian author of the newspaper column "Life as it is" and the drama The Wedding Dress wrote about a man who is accused of homosexuality after kissing a dying man who was struck by a bus in the play The Asphalt Kiss.
  Part 2 (ans: prostitutes [accept courtesans or sex workers; accept Memories of My Melancholy Whores or Memoria de mis putas tristes] {Memories of My Melancholy Whores is a late work of Gabriel Garcia Marquez}):
    A widower marries a member of this profession in Rodrigues's play All Nudity Shall Be Punished. In a different novella, a ninety-year-old man falls in love with a title member of this profession named Delgadina.
  Part 3 (ans: angels [accept Black Angel or Anjo Negro; accept Angels in America] {Angels in America is by Tony Kushner.}):
    Rodrigues wrote about a woman who kills her interracial children in his play titled for a "Black" one of these figures. These figures partly name a play by an American author in which Joe Pitt's wife Harper hallucinates that she is in Antarctica with Mr. Lies while she is high on valium.

[B10] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Dewi Ayu's hair has grown to the ground when she comes back from the dead in an Eka Kurniawan novel titled for this concept. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beauty [accept bella; accept Beauty is a Wound; accept Remedios the Beauty; accept Rosa the Beautiful]):
    Name this concept, which names a character who abruptly floats to the sky while folding sheets, as well as a green-haired character whose death prompts her sister to stop speaking for nine years.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez):
    This author described Sierva's abundant hair growing after her death from rabies in Of Love and Other Demons. This author created Remedios the Beauty and other members of the Buendia family in his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]):
    After his wife died, this poet lamented spaces "Without Her" and claimed that her hair had grown when he had her exhumed. This poet coined the word "yesteryear" in his translation of Francois Villon's "The Ballad of Dead Ladies."

[B11] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The owners of one of these places wash it with creolin and burn tears of myrrh in order to "drive away the dungheap stench that still hung everywhere like a ghost." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a chicken coop [or gallinero]):
    Name this type of place where Peyalo and Elisenda imprison the title "Very Old Man with Enormous Wings."
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [accept Gabo or Gabito; prompt on Garcia or Marquez alone]):
    This Colombian author included a chicken coop in his magical realist story "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings." His novels include Love in the Time of Cholera.
  Part 3 (ans: colonel [accept No One Writes to the Colonel or Nadie le escribe al coronel; accept Colonel Aureliano Buendia]):
    In a 1961 Garcia Marquez novella, the title character with this rank sells a chicken to Sabas while waiting for his pension. This rank is also held by the first human born in Macondo.

[B12] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Richard Blanco, a gay poet born in this country, read "One Today" at Barack Obama's 2013 inauguration. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cuba):
    Name this country. Blanco opened his poem "Next Horizon" with a quote from Versos Sencillos, a collection by fellow poet from this country Jose Marti.
  Part 2 (ans: Before Night Falls):
    Reinaldo Arenas, another gay Cuban poet, wrote this memoir about life under Fidel Castro and life with AIDS. In it, he describes his favorite childhood pastimes: eating dirt and listening to soap operas.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez):
    Reinaldo Arenas asked whether this author is "¿Esbirro o es burro?" (i.e. "is he a henchman or an ass?") in a criticism of his friendship with Castro. In one of this author's novellas, the possibly gay man Bayardo San Roman chooses not to wed the deflowered Angela.

[B13] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A 2017 NPR article likens Donald Trump's comments about buying Greenland to a scene in which this character buys all the water in the Caribbean Sea and transports it to the Arizona desert. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the General [or el general; or Zacarias; accept the Patriarch or el patriarca; accept the dictator from The Autumn of the Patriarch; accept el dictador from El otono del patriarca]):
    Name this extremely elderly title character who is obsessed with the beauty queen Leticia Nazareno. Several versions of his death appear at the beginning of each of the six stream of consciousness sections of a 1975 novel about his rule.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez):
    The Autumn of the Patriarch is an archetypal Latin American dictator novel by this author, who also wrote Love in the Time of Cholera.
  Part 3 (ans: chicken coop [or gallinero; accept hen house or any type of structure for chickens]):
    In a disturbing scene from The Autumn of the Patriarch, the General rapes a mulatto servant girl in one of these buildings. In a Garcia Marquez short story, a very old man with enormous wings is imprisoned in one of these structures before it collapses.

[B14] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A narrator loses track of time after this town is flooded in a short story titled "The Monologue of Isabel Watching It Rain in" [this town]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Macondo):
    Name this town whose inhabitants put up a sign stating "God exists" after they are all afflicted by insomnia. A character who is fascinated by magnets and ice brought by visiting gypsies reports that this town is "surrounded by water on all sides."
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial surname]):
    Seven generations of the Buendia family inhabit Macondo in One Hundred Years of Solitude, a novel by this Colombian author who also wrote Love in the Time of Cholera.
  Part 3 (ans: Leaf Storm [or La Hojarasca]):
    In this novella, Macondo is left in decline after overharvesting by a banana company. A colonel in this novella attempts to bury a widely despised doctor after his suicide.

[B15] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a closing paragraph, the title time period of one novel is referred to as the conclusion of the "uncountable time of eternity" and is likened to objects of this color. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: yellow [accept golden]):
    Name this color. The author of that novel was inspired by his grandmother's stories of a man surrounded by butterflies of this color to create the character of Mauricio Babilonia in another novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Gabriel Jose de la Concordia Garcia Marquez; prompt on Marquez]):
    Those novels, The Autumn of the Patriarch and One Hundred Years of Solitude, were written by this Colombian author.
  Part 3 (ans: fishes):
    In One Hundred Years of Solitude, Colonel Aureliano Buendia continuously makes miniature golden-yellow decorations resembling these animals before melting them down and remaking them again.

[B16] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the protagonist disassociates from her body by a process she calls "doubling" during her mother's weekly examination of her virginity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edwidge Danticat ("ed-WEEJ don-tee-KAH")):
    Name this Haitian-American author of a novel in which Sophie uses a pestle to break her hymen before leaving her mother; that novel is Breath, Eyes, Memory.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answer]):
    This author wrote a novella in which a bride is returned on her wedding night because she is not a virgin, titled A Chronicle of a Death Foretold. He also wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: cane fields [accept sugarcane fields or sugar plantations; prompt on plantations, farms, or fields]):
    After losing his virginity to Ybon ("ee-BONE"), the title character of Junot Diaz's ("JOO-noh DEE-azz's") novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is taken to one of these settings by the henchmen of Ybon's boyfriend. A "golden mongoose" guides Oscar's mother out of this sort of place, where Anabelle works in Danticat's The Farming of Bones.

[B17] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One play written by an author from this place was first performed in 1953 in a Manhattan church and follows the migration of a family of jibaros [HEE-ba-ros] to the Bronx. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Puerto Rico):
    Name this island home of the author of The Oxcart, Rene Marques, whose English-language playwrights include Quiara Alegria Hudes [OO-des], who wrote the book of the musical In The Heights.
  Part 2 (ans: Pulitzer Prize):
    For her play Water by the Spoonful, Hudes won one of these prizes, established in the will of a New York newspaper publisher, in 2012. The most recent winner of this award 'for Drama' was Martyna Majok for Cost of Living.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez):
    The first Puerto Rican screenwriter to be nominated for an Academy Award, Jose Rivera, studied screenwriting with this other author of News of a Kidnapping at the Sundance Institute in the 1980s.

[B18] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Foreign-language answer acceptable. A book named after one of these places includes the story "It's Because We're So Poor," which is about a family who loses a cow in a flood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: plains [or llanos; or paramos] (Paramo is a Spanish word for a barren plain.)):
    Name this type of place that titles a collection containing the stories "They Gave Us the Land" and "Tell Them Not to Kill Me." A character whose last name is a word for this type of place loves Susana San Juan.
  Part 2 (ans: Juan Rulfo [or Juan Nepomuceno Carlos Perez Rulfo Vizcaino]):
    This author of The Burning Plain wrote about Juan Preciado's time in the ghost-inhabited town of Comala in his novel Pedro Paramo.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answers]):
    This Colombian author allegedly read a gifted copy of Pedro Paramo twice in one night and claimed that he could recite it forwards and backwards. Pedro Paramo influenced his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B19] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel titled for this type of text, Timoteo vows to put violets on Nina's coffin if she dies first. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chronicles [or cronica; accept Chronicle of the Murdered House or Chronicle of a Death Foretold (by Gabriel Garcia Marquez); accept Cronica da Casa Assassinada or Cronica de una muerte anunciada]):
    Name this sort of text, which Lucio Cardoso used to titled his novel about the "Murdered House" of the Meneses family. Another novel titled for this sort of text ends as a man with his entrails in his hands walks into his kitchen and dies.
  Part 2 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis):
    After translating Chronicle of the Murdered House in 2016, Margaret Jull Costa and Robin Patterson put out a 2018 volume of this author's collected stories, which include "Midnight Mass" and "The Alienist."
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    Lucio Cardoso was a close friend of another author writing in this country, Clarice Lispector, who claimed she would have married him if he weren't gay. Machado de Assis was also from this country.

[B20] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some things about books with seasons in their titles, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answer]):
    The Autumn of the Patriarch is a novel by this Colombian writer of Leaf Storm and Love in the Time of Cholera.
  Part 2 (ans: Hermione):
    In Shakespeare's A Winter's Tale, this queen's daughter, Perdita, is unaware that she is of royal lineage. This wife of Leontes is turned to stone, and she dies from a broken heart after her son Mamillius dies of sickness.
  Part 3 (ans: Yukio Mishima):
    Spring Snow is the first part of this author's Sea of Fertility tetralogy. This author also wrote about Kochan, who attempts to fit into Imperial Japanese society, in Confessions of a Mask.

[B21] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ulises attempts to help this character escape with the help of a fortune of diamonds hidden in oranges. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Innocent Erendira):
    Name this character, the subject of a novella titled for her "incredible and sad tale," who is forced to be a prostitute by her grandmother after she burns down their home.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez):
    Innocent Erendira first appeared in this Colombian author's novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Colonel Aureliano Buendia [prompt on Buendia; prompt on Colonel]):
    In One Hundred Years of Solitude, this second son of Jose Arcadio Buendia unsuccessfully attempts to marry Innocent Erendira. He later fathers seventeen sons that share his name, all but one of whom are assassinated.

[B22] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about magic realism writers:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario Benedetti):
    This Uruguayan author wrote La tregua in the style of the personal diary of the protagonist, Martin Santome. His El cumpleanos de Juan Angel is a novel written in verse, while this author explored other forms of poetry in his Rincon de Haikus.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [or Gabo, or Gabito, prompt on Garcia]):
    This Colombian novelist wrote about a veteran of the Thousand Days' War who still hopes to receive the pension he was promised some fifteen years earlier for his service in the army of Aureliano Buendia, in No One Writes to the Colonel.
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Rulfo):
    This Mexican writer explored magic realism in his collection The Burning Plain and other Stories. In his novel Pedro Paramo, this author wrote about a man named Juan Preciado who travels to his recently deceased mother's hometown to find his father, only to come across a town populated by spectral figures.

[B23] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This story's enormously powerful title character owns her entire village, and the local families pay her a portion of their crops in exchange for the right to live there. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Big Mama's Funeral" [or "Los funerales de Mama Grande"]):
    Name this short story whose title character puts her nephew Nicanor in charge of her material possessions, and dies in the middle of listing her immaterial possessions.
  Part 2 (ans: Colonel Aureliano Buendia [prompt on "Aureliano" or "Buendia"]):
    Big Mama's grandmother once faced this character from a 1967 novel, who started 32 failed uprisings against the Conservative regime. He also fathered 17 sons who share his name.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [do not accept or prompt on "Marquez"]):
    "Big Mama's Funeral" is by this author, who introduced Colonel Aureliano Buendia in his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B24] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's title ruler dies in a fire after condemning his secretary, Policarpo Patino, to death, and it begins with the discovery of a fake declaration by that ruler ordering that his corpse be beheaded after his death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: I, the Supreme [or Yo el Supremo]):
    Name this Augusto Roa Bastos novel about the historical Paraguayan leader Dr. Francia.
  Part 2 (ans: dictator novel [or novela del dictador; or dictatorship novel]):
    I, the Supreme is an example of this genre of novel concerning the lives of Latin America's caudillos; other examples include El Senor Presidente by Miguel Asturias and Facundo by Domingo Sarmiento.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez):
    Another example of the dictator novel is this author's The General in His Labyrinth. This Colombian author also wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.

[B25] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Pelayo finds the title character lying face down in the mud during a rainstorm and exploits him for money until a spider woman arrives, taking away his customers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings" [or "Un senor muy viejo con unas alas enormes"]):
    Name this short story which ends when the title character sings chanteys and regains his strength before ultimately flying away.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez [do not prompt on partial answers]):
    "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings" is a work by this Colombian author, who wrote about Fermina Daza's love for Florentino Ariza in Love in the Time of Cholera.
  Part 3 (ans: Innocent Erendira [or la candida Erendira]):
    The spider woman from "A Very Old Man with Enormous Wings" also appears in a novella in which this character is forced to become a prostitute by her grandmother, who she convinces Ulises to kill.
