=== STOCK CLUES: Mahmoud Darwish ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Damascus [or Dimasq; accept al-Sham; accept "Damascus, What Are You Doing to Me?" or "The Damascene Collar of the Dove" or Songs of Mihyar the Damascene] (The Butterfly's Burden is by Mahmoud Darwish.)
  - A poem addressing this city remarks, "The geography of my body changes. / The cells of my blood become green. / My alphabet is green." "Poems become diaphanous " in this city in a poem titled for its "Collar of the Dove" that provides the title of the collection The Butterfly's Burden.
  - The erotic collection Childhood of a Breast is by a poet from this city who wrote of its "Jasmine Scent," Nizar Qabbani.
  - A modernist 1963 collection titled for this city includes "The Wound" in its section "The Sorcerer of Dust," envisions a "New Noah," and opens each section with a prose "Psalm." An imaginary king of this capital city was created by a poet from here who called it "something / of the wind" in the poem "A Grave for New York." For 10 points, the collection Songs of Mihyar depicts what city, the capital of the home country of the poet Adunis? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Lebanon [or Republic of Lebanon; or Lebanese Republic; or Liban; or Lubnan; or Al-Jumhuriyah Al-Lubnaniyah] (The first poet is Venus Khoury-Ghata. Khalil Hawi committed suicide following Israel's 1982 invasion of Beirut, which is depicted in Memory for Forgetfulness by Mahmoud Darwish.)
  - Marilyn Hacker translated a poet born in this country in books like Here There Once Was a Country. [PWR]
  - An invasion of this country prompted the suicide of the author of "The Threshing Floors of Hunger," disrupted the Afro-Asian Writers' journal Lotus, and is the backdrop of a long prose poem whose speaker frequently yearns for the "aroma of coffee." An author born in this country wrote a novel in which the original copy of the Rubaiyat is lost in the sinking of the Titanic and Omar Khayyam escapes execution in (*) Samarkand. [PWR]
  - In a book by an author born in this country, a man instructs "Love one another, but make not a bond of love: / Let it rather be a moving sea" in response to Almitra the Seeress's questions as he prepares to board a ship to leave Orphalese.
  - For 10 points, name this birth country of Amin Maalouf and an author who wrote about Almustafa in The Prophet, Kahlil Gibran. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Mahmoud [accept Mahmoud Dowlatabadi; accept Mahmoud Darwish] (The penultimate poem is "In Jerusalem.")
  - An author with this first name wrote a novel that opens with a retired military officer attending the funeral of his teenaged daughter, who was executed by Ayatollah Khomeini's regime for distributing pamphlets.
  - A poem by a different author with this first name lists "ten wounded," "twenty homes," and "fifty olive trees" among the losses caused by the title event.
  - An Iranian author with this first name wrote the novels Missing Soluch and The Colonel and has the last name Dowlatabadi.
  - In a poem by an author with this first name, a woman soldier asks "Didn't I kill you?", and the speaker replies "I forgot, like you, to die." That author with this first name warned "Beware / Of my hunger / And my anger" in a poem beginning "Write down! / I am an Arab," titled "Identity Card." For 10 points, give this first name of a Palestinian poet with the last name Darwish. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mahmoud Darwish
  - This author wrote about prophets returning from heaven "less discouraged and melancholy, because love and peace are holy and are coming to town." A "woman soldier" in that poem shouts at the speaker that she killed him, but he replies, "You killed me...and I forgot, like you, to die." This poet of "In Jerusalem" wrote that he loves "ancient love poems that guard the sick moon from smoke" in a work in which inadequacy of language causes the death of an animal that became "bloodied with my poem." A prose poem by this man takes place on Hiroshima Day in the bombed-out streets of Beirut, and is entitled (*) Memory for Forgetfulness. [PWR]
  - This poet wrote a work in which the speaker claims not to hate people or encroach, but warns to beware of his hunger and his anger.
  - The number "fifty thousand" is printed on the title object of that poem, which repeats, "Write down!
  - I am an Arab." For 10 points, name this 20th century Palestinian poet who wrote "Identity Card." [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 Gorilla Lit (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Mahmoud Darwish
  - In one poem, this author wrote: "Writing is a puppy biting nothingness / Writing wounds without a trace of blood".
  - The speakers of that poem by him stand "Close to the gardens of broken shadow", where they "cultivate hope".
  - The lines "This is your name-- / a woman said, / and vanished through the winding of a corridor" opens one section of a poem by him that includes the refrain "One day I shall become what I want".
  - The speaker of one poem by this author repeatedly mentions that he has eight (*) children, that he has "a name without a title", and asks "So will you be angry?". [PWR]
  - That poem by this author of the volumes Mural and State of Siege ends "Beware / Beware / Of my hunger / And my anger" and opens "Write down! / I am an Arab".
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Identity Card", a Palestinian poet. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem ends with the admonition "Beware ... / Beware ... / Of my hunger / And my anger!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Identity Card" [or "Bitaqat huwiyya"]):
    Name this poem which states "I have eight children / And the ninth will come after a summer. / Will you be angry?" after describing the number of its title object as "fifty thousand."
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    This Arab-language poet wrote "Identity Card," as well as the Palestinian Declaration of Independence.
  Part 3 (ans: "If I Must Die" [reject "If We Must Die"]):
    This poem titles a posthumous collection by Palestinian author Refaat Alareer. Its title phrase is followed by the words "you must live / to tell my story / to sell my things / to buy a piece of cloth / and some strings."

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This city alternately titles a Turkish poem that spread in unauthorized English translation when it was set to the tune of "The Great Selkie" by Pete Seeger and recorded by the Byrds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hiroshima [accept "Hiroshima Girl"]):
    A girl from what city says "I knock and yet remain unseen" in a Nazım Hikmet poem that begins "I come and stand at every door"?
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    This poet described watching the Siege of Beirut on the anniversary of the bombing of Hiroshima in his long poem Memory for Forgetfulness. This Palestinian activist also wrote "Identity Card."
  Part 3 (ans: rain [accept Black Rain or Kuroi Ame; accept Rain Song or 'Unshudat al-Matar; prompt on water]):
    The priest Fu-Kai witnesses the bomb in a poem by Badr Shakir al-Sayyab, who is more famous for a 1960 collection titled for this stuff. This stuff appears in the euphemistic title of a Masuji Ibuse novel about Hiroshima.

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A long prose poem by this author asks "Does it happen much, that you are awakened from one dream by another, itself the interpretation of the dream?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    Name this author whose poem Memory for Forgetfulness opens "Out of one dream, another dream is born." The refrain "Write down! / I am an Arab," appears in this Palestinian poet's "Identity Card."
  Part 2 (ans: wine [prompt on alcohol]):
    Darwish's poem "A Soldier Dreams of White Lilies" compares love to a glass of this substance. A line in Omar Khayyam's Rubaiyat mentions "a Jug of [this drink], a Loaf of Bread-and Thou."
  Part 3 (ans: Adonis [or Adunis; or Ali Ahmad Said Esber]):
    Darwish's poem "We Fear for a Dream" appears in the volume Victims of a Map, which he co-wrote with Samih al-Qasim and this poet of "Worries (A Dream)." This Syrian poet of Songs of Mihyar the Damascene created the first complete Arabic translation of Ovid's Metamorphoses.

[B4] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by the author of "God Has Pity on Kindergarten Children," a shepherd who is one of these people searches for his goat as the narrator searches for his son on the mountain opposite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arabs):
    Name these people. In another poem, the speaker repeatedly commands to "put it on record" that he is one of these people in between catalogues of his distinguishing features.
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    The author of "An Arab Shepherd Is Searching for His Goat on Mount Zion," Yehuda Amichai, was described as "a challenge to me" by this Palestinian poet, who repeated the refrain "I am an Arab" in his poem "Identity Card."
  Part 3 (ans: a river [accept "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" or A River Dies of Thirst]):
    Amichai describes the Arab Shepherd's hands as these features, which title a Darwish collection about how one of these features "Dies of Thirst." Langston Hughes wrote a poem in which "The Negro Speaks of" examples of these features like the Congo and the Euphrates.

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker bursts into tears upon passing his former lover's encampment in a poem from this set beginning "Let us stop and weep." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mu'allaqat [or the Hanging Odes; or the Seven Golden Odes; or the Suspended Odes] (the ode form is the qasida)):
    Name this set of poems, several of which are written in a classical "ode" form in which every verse ends on the same rhyme. These poems included a love song for Abla written by the legendary warrior, Antar.
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    Imru al-Qays ("IM-roo all-KYE'SS"), author of the qasida ("kuh-SEED-uh") "Let us stop and weep," titles a poem about a "Non-Linguistic Dispute" by this author. This contemporary poet wrote "The Horse Fell Off the Poem" and "Identity Card."
  Part 3 (ans: (Gibran) Kahlil Gibran):
    A modern qasida entitled "Ya Nafs" was written by this Lebanese poet of "Sand and Foam" and The Prophet.

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Naomi Shihab Nye noted that this poet was the "Essential Breath" of his ethnic group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish (The unnamed poem is "Identity Card.")):
    Name this poet who wrote that he "touch[es] you as a lonely violin touches the suburbs of the faraway place" in his "Sonnet V." A poem by this author ends multiple stanzas by asking "are you angry?" and warns the reader to "Beware... beware ... of my hunger."
  Part 2 (ans: Arabic [or al-ʿarabiyyah]):
    Darwish wrote most of his poetry in this language. The Quran was written in this language.
  Part 3 (ans: Edward Wadie Said [or Idward Wadiʿ Saʿid]):
    This author wrote that "the personal and the public are always in an uneasy relationship" in Darwish's poetry. This author also condemned imperialism in the books Culture and Imperialism and Orientalism.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A photographer in New Brighton repeatedly assures a man who has stolen this item that he will be promoted quickly to "Chief Messenger at Feltex." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: passbook [accept identity book; accept workers' permit; accept pass or ID card; prompt on book; prompt on permit; reject "passport"]):
    Name this item, which Buntu encourages the protagonist to steal from Robert Zwelinzima's ("zʼway-LIN-zee-mahʼs") body in Athol Fugard's play Sizwe ("SIZ-way") Banzi Is Dead.
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    This Palestinian poet engaged with the racial politics of identity documents by repeating "Write down: I am an Arab" in the poem Identity Card.
  Part 3 (ans: Wole Soyinka [or Akinwande Oluwole Babatunde Soyinka]):
    This playwright wrote about asylum seekers in London in the radio play Document of Identity. This Nigerian playwright is better known for writing Death and the King's Horseman.

[B8] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet who wrote in this language stated, "My life is the gardener of my body" in the title poem of his poetry collection Open Closed Open. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Modern Hebrew [or Israeli Hebrew or Ivrit Hadashah] (A Tale of Love and Darkness is by Amos Oz)):
    Name this language used by the poet of "God Has Pity On Kindergarten Children." An author who used this language wrote about losing his depressed mother in A Tale of Love and Darkness.
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    This author admired that poet, Yehuda Amichai, but said his poetry was a "challenge to me, because we write about the same place." This Palestinian poet repeated, "Write down!" in the poem "Identity Card."
  Part 3 (ans: Book of Psalms [or Tehillim]):
    Amichai describes souls "before the great wars" in a poem titled "Summer Evening By the Window with" these texts. These Old Testament texts include one that states, "The Lord is my Shepherd."

[B9] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Mohja Kahf analyzed Muslim characters like the sorceress Armida and the warrior Clorinda from a Torquato Tasso poem named for [this city] Delivered. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerusalem [accept Jerusalem Delivered or "In Jerusalem"]):
    Name this city that titles a poem set "within the ancient walls." A William Blake poem named for this city begins "And did those feet in ancient time" and proclaims "Bring me my chariot of fire."
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish (The poem is "Identity Card.")):
    This author tells a soldier "You killed me... and I forgot, like you, to die" in his poem "In Jerusalem." A poem by this author repeats "Write down: / I am an Arab!" and warns "beware of my hunger / and my anger."
  Part 3 (ans: Memory for Forgetfulness [accept The Time: Beirut / The Place: August; accept Dhakira lil-nisyan]):
    This Darwish prose poem, set on Hiroshima Day, describes the bombing of Beirut. The narrator of this poem claims "Coffee is geography" and describes the sea, ending "I don't see a shore. / I don't see a dove."

[B10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In 2016, Israel's defense minister Avigdor Lieberman likened a poem by this author to Mein Kampf. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    Name this poet, who wrote that 'Nothing is left for us and my grandchildren / Except these rocks' in their poem 'Identity Card'.
  Part 2 (ans: Beirut):
    Darwish's prose poem Memory for Forgetfulness recreates the horrific siege of this capital city of Lebanon.
  Part 3 (ans: Hiroshima):
    Memory for Forgetfulness is set on a day which commemorates events at this location. Another poet's work Bringing Forth New Life is set at this location, while a poem carved at this location begins 'Give me back my father. Give me back my mother'.

[B11] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author repeatedly mentions locations such as a "modern museum" and "my very heart" in his "Endless Poem." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yehudah Amichai):
    Identify this German-born poet, who wrote a "prayer for the dead" in his "God Full of Mercy." A poem by this man, which notes that "I wasn't one of the six million who died in the Shoah," includes a line which titles his collection Open Closed Open.
  Part 2 (ans: Jerusalem):
    In an Amichai poem, the speaker asks to "let my blood be forgotten" if he were to forget this holy city. A poem by a Palestinian author describes walking "from one epoch to another" in this holy city.
  Part 3 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    This Palestinian poet, who greatly admired Amichai, wrote that poem about walking in Jerusalem. His poem "Identity Card" repeats the line "write down! I am an Arab."

[B12] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these works is known for its extended anatomically correct description of camels and was written by Tarafa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hanging Poems [or Muʻallaqat; or Suspended Odes]):
    Name this group of 7 works of poetry, which are named for their position within the Ka'aba. These works were held to have been written by the Seven Renowned Ones.
  Part 2 (ans: Arabic):
    The Hanging Poems are among the most prominent examples of pre-Islamic literature in this language. The verses of the Qur'an are often held to be the most important pieces of poetic literature in this language.
  Part 3 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    This Palestinian author, the most famous contemporary poet to use Arabic, proclaimed "Write down! I am an Arab" in his poem "Identity Card."

[B13] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author used imagery of doves and coffee to discuss the fear during Hiroshima Day in his poem Memory for Forgetfulness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    Name this Palestinian poet who wrote "Write down! / I am an Arab" to begin his poem "Identity Card".
  Part 2 (ans: Ghassan Kanafani):
    This author discussed the Palestinian experience of the Middle East conflict in the essay collection Palestine's Children. Three men suffocate to death while hiding in an empty water tank in this author's novel Men in the Sun.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaza City):
    Palestinian author Atef Abu Seif set his book The Drone Eats With Me and a collection of stories in this largest city in the State of Palestine, which lies on a namesake strip on the Mediterranean coast.

[B14] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: William Blake asked whether this city was "builded here / among these dark Satanic Mills" in a poem that begins "And did those feet in ancient time." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerusalem):
    Name this city, which is "Delivered" in an epic poem that fictionalizes the First Crusade.
  Part 2 (ans: Torquato Tasso):
    Jerusalem Delivered was written by this sixteenth-century Italian poet. This author's seven years in St. Anna's were commemorated in a Eugene Delacroix painting of this man in the Madhouse.
  Part 3 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish ):
    This poet described walking "from one epoch to another without a memory to guide [him]" while "within the ancient walls" of Jerusalem in one poem. His "Identity Card" begins "Write down! / I am an Arab."

[B15] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about his Jewish lover Rita in several poems, such as one that begins "Between Rita and my eyes there is a rifle." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    Name this Palestinian poet, who repeated the command "Write down! I am an Arab" in his poem "Identity Card."
  Part 2 (ans: Yehuda Amichai):
    Darwish admired this Hebrew poet, but described competing with him to be "the owner of the language of this land." This champion of colloquial Hebrew penned the collection Open Closed Open and wrote about an Israeli's visit to his hometown in Germany in Not of This Time, Not of This Place.
  Part 3 (ans: the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima [prompt on "dropping the atomic bomb on Japan" or similar answers]):
    In his prose poem "Memory for Forgetfulness," Darwish linked the violence of the Lebanese Civil War to this destructive August 6, 1945 event explored in "notes" by Kenzaburo Oe and in a journalistic masterwork by John Hersey.

[B16] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem asks, "Will you be angry?" and "will the State take them / As it has been said?!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Identity Card"):
    Name this poem which ends by saying, "I do not hate people / Nor do I encroach / But if I become hungry / The usurper's flesh will be my food / Beware... / Beware..."
  Part 2 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    This Palestinian poet repeated the line, "Write down! / I am an Arab," in "Identity Card."
  Part 3 (ans: horses):
    Darwish also wrote, "you and I are the absent ones," in a poem in which one of these animals "fell off the poem." One of these animals "gives his harness bells a shake" after "think[ing] it queer / to stop without a farmhouse near" in "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."

[B17] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer described carnations growing in the same place where he witnessed "stones take flight" and "dewdrops become weapons" in "Poem for the Land." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahmoud Darwish):
    Name this author of the collections Leaves of Olives and Memory for Forgetfulness. This poet's most famous work includes the refrain "Write down: I am an Arab".
  Part 2 (ans: Khalil Gibran):
    This other Arabic-language poet wrote a collection of aphorisms, Sand and Foam. Another of his works equates reason and passion to a ship's rudders and sees the title character's final remarks before leaving Orphalese by ship.
  Part 3 (ans: The Prophet):
    Almustafa addresses topics such as pleasure, self-knowledge, and pain at the request of the residents of Orphalese in this collection by Khalil Gibran.
