=== STOCK CLUES: French New Wave ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a 1992 essay in Sight & Sound, B. Ruby Rich coined a type of "Queer Cinema" described by this adjective, which is exemplified by Todd Haynes's film Poison. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: new [or nouvelle; accept New Hollywood or French New Wave or Nouvelle Vague]):
    What adjective appears in the names of both an auteur-driven Hollywood movement of the 1970s and an experimental French movement whose films include Breathless?
  Part 2 (ans: Gregg Araki):
    Rich's essay cites this director's queer film The Living End, which preceded his Teenage Apocalypse trilogy. Joseph Gordon-Levitt starred in this Japanese-American director's film Mysterious Skin.
  Part 3 (ans: Phoenix [or Bottom; accept River Phoenix or Joaquin Phoenix or River Jude Bottom or Joaquin Rafael Bottom] (The latter film is The Master.)):
    Rich praised My Own Private Idaho, which starred Keanu Reeves and an actor with this surname as hustlers. In a 2012 film, an actor with this surname played Freddie Quell, who joins Lancaster Dodd's cult "The Cause."

[B2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the film career of actress Catherine Deneuve. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: French New Wave [accept nouvelle vague] (The unnamed film is Breathless.)):
    Deneuve is most famous for her collaborations with Jacques Demy during this cinematic movement. In a film from this movement, a Humphrey Bogart-obsessed character kills a cop after being caught with a stolen car.
  Part 2 (ans: Luis Bunuel [or Luis Bunuel Portoles]):
    Deneuve plays a woman who turns to prostitution to fulfill masochistic fantasies in this director's film Belle de Jour. This man worked with Salvador Dali in his debut, Un Chien Andalou ("ahn SHYEN ahn-DAH-loo").
  Part 3 (ans: Bjork [or Bjork Guðmundsdottir]):
    In a film inspired by the Dogme ("DAW-muh") 95 movement, Deneuve plays a woman who describes Hollywood musicals to a blind character played by this actress. This actress secured an Academy Award nomination for her song "I've Seen It All."

[B3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many of this director's films were made in collaboration with Damoure Zika, including a film where Zika travels to Paris to learn about construction, Petit a Petit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean Rouch ("ROOSH")):
    Name this French director of Les maitres fous ("lay MAY-truh FOO"), a film about practitioners of the Hauka movement living in Ghana, as well as Chronicle of a Summer.
  Part 2 (ans: French New Wave [or Nouvelle Vague]):
    Rouch's Moi, un Noir ("MWAH uhn nwah") was cited as inspiring this French film movement through its use of jump-cuts and non-professional actors. Other directors from this 1950s movement included Francois Truffaut ("frahn-SWAH troo-FOH").
  Part 3 (ans: Dziga Vertov):
    Rouch took heavy inspiration from this director for the filming theory of Chronicle of a Summer. Rouch's style of "cinema verite" ("VEH-ree-teh") was coined by his partner Edgar Morin when referring to this Russian director of Man with a Movie Camera.

[B4] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film ends with a boy reciting a poem to a shrine of his dead grandmother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yi yi):
    Name this film that opens with Grandmother having a stroke during the wedding of A-Di and Xiao Yan. This film follows NJ and three generations of his family navigating life in Taipei.
  Part 2 (ans: New Wave [or Taiwanese New Wave; or French New Wave; or Taiwanese New Cinema]):
    Yang was part of a Taiwanese film movement titled for this two-word term, which also names a 1960s "French" movement that produced films like Breathless and The 400 Blows.
  Part 3 (ans: Ang Lee):
    This other Taiwan New Wave director created the "Father Knows Best" trilogy and a wuxia ("wu-shee-uh") film centered on the search for the lost Green Destiny sword.

[B5] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: When asked if his films were understood in Europe, this director proclaimed "why be a sunflower and turn toward the sun? I myself am the sun." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ousmane Sembene [or Sembene Ousmane]):
    Name this director who depicted a maid gifting a mask to an uncaring French family in one film.This Senegalese director of Xala is considered the "father of African cinema."
  Part 2 (ans: French New Wave [or Nouvelle Vague]):
    Sembene produced Wolof-language films after winning the Prix Jean Vigo, a prize named for a director that influenced this 1950s French movement whose proponents included Agnes Varda and Jean-Luc Godard.
  Part 3 (ans: noir [or noir]):
    Sembene won the Vigo award for a film titled for this French word as a noun. New Wave films like Le Samourai and Alphaville are often called "neo-" this word, also used to describe American films like The Big Sleep.

[B6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film's protagonist obsesses over a memory of seeing an unnamed woman at Orly Airport shortly before witnessing the death of his adult self. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Jetee):
    Name this 1962 science fiction film directed by Chris Marker ("mar-KAIR"). This film is comprised almost exclusively of still photographs accompanied by voiceover dialogue and narration.
  Part 2 (ans: French New Wave [or Nouvelle Vague]):
    Marker was often grouped with the Left Bank directors of this French film movement along with Alain Resnais ("ah-LAN reh-NAY") and husband-and-wife Jacques Demy and Agnes Varda.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Luc Godard):
    In contrast, the Right Bank included more popular and successful filmmakers such as this director of Pierrot le fou and Vivre sa vie, both of which star his then-wife Anna Karina.

[B7] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An amnesiac member of this profession named Guy Roland tries to remember his pre-World War II identity in Patrick Modiano's novel Missing Person. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: detective [accept private investigator or similar answers]):
    Name this profession. A member of this profession named Wallas murders Daniel Dupont and searches for one of the title objects in Alain Robbe-Grillet's novel The Erasers.
  Part 2 (ans: Prix Goncourt [or Goncourt Prize]):
    Modiano's Missing Person won this most prestigious award in French literature in 1978. The male-dominated juries that decided this award in its early years inspired the creation of the Prix Femina, whose jury consists entirely of women.
  Part 3 (ans: new [or New Novel; or French New Wave; or Nouveau Roman; or La Nouvelle Vague]):
    Robbe-Grillet's The Erasers is a major example of an experimental style of French novel described by this adjective, a phrase coined by Emile Henriot. Robbe-Grillet also collaborated with Alain Resnais, a director associated with a French film "wave" described by this adjective.

[B8] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a film from this country, two former prison cellmates meet up many years after one of them has established a Nazi-like mega corporation that sells phonograph records. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: France (those directors are Jean Renoir and Rene Clair)):
    Name this country home to the director of the aforementioned film, Freedom for Us, and a director known for pioneering the modern drama with films like The Rules of the Game and The Grand Illusion.
  Part 2 (ans: French New Wave [or Nouvelle Vague]):
    This two word phrase names a French film movement developed in the early 1960s that emphasized innovative cinematic techniques and self-conscious writing. Directors associated with this movement include Jean-Luc Godard and Francois Truffaut.
  Part 3 (ans: killing a police officer [accept shooting a police officer or equivalents; prompt on murder or manslaughter by asking what type of person Marcel kills]):
    In one of the seminal films of the French New Wave, Breathless, Michel commits this crime during a jarring, now famous, five shot sequence.

[B9] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the wide world of New Wave film, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: France [accept French New Wave]):
    Handheld cameras, natural lighting and rebellious protagonists characterize many of the films in this country's New Wave movement, which produced Breathless and The 400 Blows.
  Part 2 (ans: Romania [accept Romanian New Wave]):
    Films from this country's recent New Wave include one in which the protagonist argues over the meaning of the words "conscience" and "justice" called Police, Adjective, as well as a film asking if this country's revolution actually affected a small town, titled "12:08 East of" its capital.
  Part 3 (ans: Thailand [accept Thai New Wave]):
    The Asian financial crisis spurred this country's New Wave cinema, which produced such art-house films as Last Life in the Universe and the spaghetti western-esque Tears of the Black Tiger.
