=== STOCK CLUES: Frank O'Hara ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 23 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Frank O'Hara
  - A work by this author includes the parenthetical remark "I cannot bring myself to prefer Johnny Weissmuller to Lex Barker, I cannot!" A reader of Life magazine accused this author of "necrophilia" for writing a series of eulogies for James Dean. [PWR]
  - This author proclaimed "Motion Picture Industry, / it's you I love!" in a work titled "To the Film Industry in Crisis." A work by this author that opens by asking the "mothers of America" to "let your kids go to the movies!" has the tongue-in-cheek title "Ave Maria." A newspaper this author read on a (*) ferry to Staten Island inspired him to write a work declaring that "there is no snow in Hollywood." This author's manifesto "Personism" asserts that "only Whitman and Crane and Williams ... are better than the movies." This author mocked tabloid headlines in a poem that tells the title sex symbol, "we love you get up." For 10 points, "Lana Turner has collapsed!" appears in what author's collection Lunch Poems? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara] (The first poem is "Mayakovsky")
  - A poem by this author exclaims, "That's funny! there's blood on my chest" and claims, "It may be the coldest day of / the year." In another poem, this poet wrote that he doesn't think of Marcel Duchamp's Nude Descending a Staircase while at home and describes a certain activity as "even more fun than going to San Sebastian." This poet remembered watching the title character perform in the 5 Spot (*) nightclub in a poem set on "a Friday / three days after Bastille day." This poet of "Having a Coke with You" described "a NEW YORK POST with her face on it" in a poem about the death of Billy Holiday.
  - For 10 points, name this American poet who included "The Day Lady Died" in his Lunch Poems. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Frank O'Hara
  - In a poem by this man, the speaker believes that his proposition of "All I want is boundless love" should ideally make him "the least difficult of men." This author memorialized a playwright nicknamed "Bunny," V. [PWR]
  - R. [PWR]
  - Lang, including in a poem whose speaker carries his papaya juice and copy of Poems by Pierre Reverdy back to work. [PWR]
  - In a poem by this author, the speaker gets his shoes shined on a "Friday / three days after (*) Bastille day." This poet of "A Step Away from Them" and "Meditations in an Emergency" recalls, "everyone and I stopped breathing" during the title woman's performance in a poem mourning the death of Billie Holiday. [PWR]
  - "The Day Lady Died" and Lunch Poems are by, for 10 points, what New York School poet? [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara] (The poem in the second sentence is "Lana Turner has collapsed!")
  - A prompt by editor Donald Allen led this poet to write a joking manifesto on putting poems "between two persons rather than two pages," called "Personism." A poem by this author tells the title actress "we love you get up" after learning that she "has collapsed!" This poet notes, "I am quietly waiting for the catastrophe of my personality to seem beautiful again" in the poem "Mayakovsky." This poet's day job as an art museum curator informed the line, (*) "I would rather look at you than all the portraits in the world / except possibly for the Polish Rider." The line "everyone and I stopped breathing" concludes a poem by this author set on "12:20 in New York on a Friday" about the death of Billie Holiday. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Having a Coke with You" and Lunch Poems, which includes his poem "The Day Lady Died." [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: poetry [accept word forms; accept verse; prompt on writing; prompt on literature] (The clued works are "Poetry is a Destructive Force" by Wallace Stevens, "Why I am not a Painter" by Frank O'Hara, "Ars Poetica" by Archibald MacLeish, and "Poetry" by Marianne Moore.)
  - A lion that "sleeps in the sun" and "can kill a man" is used to support the idea that this art form is a "destructive force." A creator of this art form notes "how terrible orange is / and life" and says that he is not the kind of artist to create Mike's SARDINES.
  - One author argued that this art form should be "silent as the sleeve-worn stone" and "motionless in time." This art form has a place for "hands that can grasp, eyes / that can dilate" and is created by (*) "literalists of the imagination." One author said that this art form should be "palpable and mute / as a globed fruit" and "should not mean, but be." This art form creates "imaginary gardens with real toads in it" and titles a work that begins, "I too, dislike it." For 10 points, name this art form practiced by Marianne Moore whose forms include villanelles and sonnets. [PWR,GIVE]

[T6] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara]
  - In one poem by this author, the speaker states that "it's no use worrying about Time" before telling the addressee, "O you were the best of all my days." The speaker of another poem by this author notes that the addressee's "orange shirt" made them look like a "better, happier St. [PWR]
  - Sebastian." This author of the poem "Animals" also wrote a poem whose speaker claims that he never thinks of (+) "the Nude Descending a Staircase" at home, nor a "Leonardo or Michelangelo that used to wow" him.
  - That poem by this author begins with the speaker claiming that the title action is "more fun than going to San Sebastian" or "being sick to my stomach" in Barcelona. [PWR]
  - This author's time as (*) a curator for the MoMA is referenced in that poem in which the speaker states that he would "rather look at you than all the portraits in the world, except possibly for the Polish Rider." For 10 points, name this New York School poet of "Having a Coke with You" and the collection Lunch Poems. [GIVE]

[T7] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara]
  - One poem by this author states that he was not taught by the Catholic Church or "the American Legion, which hates everybody" but by "stretching Vistavision", "tragic Technicolor" and the "glorious Silver Screen".
  - This author of "To the Film Industry in Crisis" collaborated with Norman Bluhm on a series of "poem-paintings".
  - This one-time curator of the Museum of Modern Art explained his literary leanings in the poem "Why I Am Not a Painter".
  - One of his poems is set "three days after Bastille day" and the speaker sees the title singer's face on the front page of the New York Post.
  - The speaker "would rather look at you than all the portraits in the world / except possibly for the Polish Rider" in his poem, "Having a Coke with You".
  - For 10 points, name this New York School poet of "The Day Lady Died" and Lunch Poems. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Marjorie Perloff's biography of this critic emphasizes the influence of Jackson Pollock, who often subjected him to homophobic abuse despite his authorship of a flattering 1959 monograph. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frank O'Hara [accept Frank O'Hara: Poet Among the Painters]):
    Larry Rivers painted what ARTnews critic wearing only boots? With Dorothy Miller, this curator helped bring Abstract Expressionism to European audiences in the 1958 exhibition The New American Painting.
  Part 2 (ans: MoMA [or the Museum of Modern Art]):
    Frank O'Hara wrote Lunch Poems during his breaks at this Manhattan museum. As the first director of this home of The Starry Night, Alfred Barr drew a diagram emphasizing its commitment to 20th-century abstraction.
  Part 3 (ans: Willem de Kooning [prompt on de Kooning]):
    In "Radio," O'Hara praises an orange bed in a painting by this close friend, whom he called Action Painting's "Delacroix." A series by this artist draws elements from cigarette ads and Sumerian fertility idols.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Answer the following about projects to integrate poetry and visual art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Sonia Delaunay):
    This artist created an accordion book of Blaise Cendrars's multicolored poetry alongside her paintings of a journey on the Trans-Siberian Railway to France, represented visually by the Eiffel Tower.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank O'Hara and Larry Rivers):
    These two people collaborated on Stones, a series of lithographs with accompanying poems. One of these two people wrote "To the Harbormaster" to the other, as well as a poem about looking at his "Washington Crossing the Delaware."
  Part 3 (ans: Kazuo Ishiguro):
    This author wrote The Summer We Crossed Europe in the Rain, an illustrated series of lyrics for the jazz singer Stacy Kent. He also wrote about the painter Masuji Ono in An Artist of the Floating World.

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's wife Florence wrote a "reply" to one of his poems that ends by telling him, "please switch off the telephone." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Carlos Williams ):
    Name this author whose poem "This is Just To Say" opens, "I have eaten / the plums / that were in / the icebox."
  Part 2 (ans: New York School (The author is Frank O'Hara.)):
    The poetic parody "Variations on a Theme by William Carlos Williams" was written by Kenneth Koch ("coke"), a member of this group of poets alongside the author of "Having a Coke with You."
  Part 3 (ans: Wallace Stevens (The poem is "The Comedian as the Letter C.")):
    Williams's poem "El Hombre" inspired "Nuances on a Theme by Williams," a poem by this author. This author wrote that "the plum survives its poems" in a poem whose title character plans to travel from "Bordeaux to Yucatan, Havana next, / And then to Carolina."

[B4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, Spurgeon bails his father out of jail and ends up at the Million Man March, where his father tries to sell exotic birds to the attendees. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ZZ Packer [or Zuwena Packer]):
    Name this author of "The Ant of the Self," whose story "Brownies" is about Black Girl Scouts who try to beat up an all-White troop before realizing they are disabled. She wrote the collection Drinking Coffee Elsewhere.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara]):
    In the title story of Drinking Coffee Elsewhere, Heidi gets fellow Yale student Dina to open her room door by reciting this poet's "Autobiographia Literaria." One of his poems opens, "Lana Turner has collapsed!"
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Bloom):
    Heidi and Dina bond by skipping class and reading unassigned books, including this Yale literary critic's The Anxiety of Influence.

[B5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's life partner, dancer Vincent Warren, is the addressee of his poem "Having a Coke with You." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara]):
    Name this American poet who reacted to the death of Billie Holiday in the poem "The Day Lady Died" in his collection Lunch Poems.
  Part 2 (ans: City Lights Publishers):
    O'Hara's Lunch Poems were published as part of this publisher's Pocket Poets Series. Other collections released by this publisher include Robert Bly's The Teeth-Mother Naked At Last and another poet's collections Planet News and Reality Sandwiches.
  Part 3 (ans: Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg]):
    City Lights was sued for obscenity for publishing this Beat poet's collection Howl and Other Poems.

[B6] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, the surname of the bank teller "Stillwagon" is thought to be a not-so-veiled reference to a hearse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Day Lady Died):
    Name this poem that begins "It is 12:20... / three days after Bastille day, yes / it is 1959 and I go get a shoeshine." In the last stanza of this poem, the speaker remembers a time when he listened to music at the 5 Spot.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank O'Hara):
    This leading poet of the New York School, who depicted Mike Goldberg painting Sardines in "Why I am Not a Painter," included "The Day Lady Died" in the collection Lunch Poems.
  Part 3 (ans: composer [prompt on musician; reject "pianist" or "singer"] {The poems are "On Rachmaninoff's Birthday" and "The Tomb of Arnold Schoenberg."}):
    O'Hara wrote "You'll never be mentally sober" at the end of one of the seven poems that he titled for the birthday of a man with this profession. In another poem, O'Hara calls the tomb of a man with this profession a "loud windless blizzard."

[B7] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An experimental poetry journal founded in this city took its title from Raymond Roussel's novel Locus Solus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York City (The poem is Frank O'Hara's "The Day Lady Died.")):
    Name this city, which was home to a modernist "school" of poets including Ted Berrigan and Kenneth Koch. Their acquaintance wrote that "it is 12:20...on a Friday" in this city when he hears about Billie Holiday's death.
  Part 2 (ans: sonnets):
    Likely inspired by Dadaists, Berrigan cut up lines of other poems to create poems in this form. Berrigan's 1964 collection of poems in this form references Shakespeare's 154 poems in this form.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ashbery (The poem is Self-portrait in a Convex Mirror.)):
    This other New York School poet described how "the glass chose only to reflect what he saw" in a poem that titles a 1974 collection by him.

[B8] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In 2007, Andre Aciman received one of these awards for a novel about a summer fling between the teenager Elio and the doctoral student Oliver, titled Call Me by Your Name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lambda Literary Awards [or Lammys]):
    Identify these annual awards for exemplary LGBTQ literature. Colm Toibin ("toh-BEAN") is the only author to have received two of these awards in the "Gay Fiction" category, for his novel The Master and collection The Empty Family.
  Part 2 (ans: AIDS [accept HIV]):
    The Lambda Literary Awards discontinued their prize for literature addressing this condition, which afflicts Prior Walter and Roy Cohn in Tony Kushner's play Angels in America.
  Part 3 (ans: O'Hara [accept Robert O'Hara or Frank O'Hara]):
    The 2016 Lammy for Drama was awarded to a playwright with this surname for his play Barbecue/Bootycandy. A poet with this surname described a Friday afternoon "three days after Bastille day" in "The Day Lady Died."

[B9] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this essay traces the birth of the title concept to his realization, while writing a poem for someone he was in love with, that "if I wanted to I could use the telephone instead." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Personism: A Manifesto"):
    Identify this tongue-in-cheek 1959 manifesto proposing a new literary movement that places the poem "between two" individuals "instead of two pages."
  Part 2 (ans: lunchtimes [or lunch hours; or lunch breaks; no other answer promptable or acceptable]):
    According to the essay, Personism was born after its author spent one of these periods of time with LeRoi Jones. Lawrence Ferlinghetti commissioned a volume of poems, including "Personal Poem" and "A Step Away From Them," that the same author wrote during these periods of time.
  Part 3 (ans: Frank O'Hara):
    This New York School poet wrote the essay "Personism" and included "The Day Lady Died" in his collection Lunch Poems.

[B10] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A man with this profession compares one of his works to Mike's painting "SARDINES" in a work explaining "Why [He Is] Not a Painter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: poets [prompt on authors or writers]):
    Name this primary profession of many members of the New York School, including John Ashbery, whose most famous work was inspired by Parmigianino's ("par-mee-jah-NEE-noh's") Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara]):
    John Ashbery wrote a preface to City Lights' Pocket Poets edition of Lunch Poems, a collection this poet wrote while he was a curator at the MoMA. He was labeled a "poet among painters" in a biography by Marjorie Perloff.
  Part 3 (ans: Kenneth Koch ("coke")):
    A poetry hater asks "Haven't you ever looked out the window at a painting by Matisse?" in this author's poem "Fresh Air." His poem "The Art of Poetry" includes a list of questions to ask before publishing a poem, including "Is it astonishing?"

[B11] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A blurb for one of this author's poetry collections opens "Often the poet strolled through Manhattan," and describes typing poems up "while never forgetting to eat... his favorite meal." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frank O'Hara [Francis Russell O'Hara]):
    Name this New York School poet who wrote about a painting of oranges titled "SARDINES" in "Why I am Not a Painter." This author included a poem about a mealtime conversation with Amiri Baraka in a collection of poems.
  Part 2 (ans: lunch [accept Lunch Poems; accept Naked Lunch]):
    Frank O'Hara's most famous collection of poems is titled for this meal. One of the foremost users of the cut-up literary technique, William S. Burroughs, wrote a novel titled after a Naked variety of this midday meal.
  Part 3 (ans: newspapers [accept newspaper headlines or "Newsreel"; prompt on writing or print]):
    In one poem, Frank O'Hara describes braving poor weather before seeing the phrase "LANA TURNER HAS COLLAPSED!" in this medium. John dos Passos included many instances of this medium in his USA Trilogy in a precursor to the cut-up technique.

[B12] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This institution was managed for over twenty years by Nancy Peters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: City Lights Bookstore):
    Name this San Francisco establishment, founded by Lawrence Ferlinghetti and Peter Martin, that was influential in publishing the works of many modern poets.
  Part 2 (ans: Beat Movement [or Beat Generation]):
    The City Lights Bookstore was an important player in this literary movement that included Allen Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac, and William S. Burroughs.
  Part 3 (ans: Frank O'Hara):
    This poet's collection Lunch Poems, which includes his poems "Personal Poem," "The Day Lady Died," and "A Step Away From Them," was published with the help of City Lights.
