=== STOCK CLUES: Fanfare for the Common Man ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: fanfares [accept fanfarade; accept flourish; accept Fanfare for American Heroes; accept Fanfare for a New Theatre; accept Fanfare for the Uncommon Woman; accept Fanfare for the Common Man]
  - The New York State Theatre's opening ceremony featured an antiphonal performance of an Igor Stravinsky piece in this genre.
  - In 1942, the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra premiered 18 pieces in this genre commissioned by Eugene Goosens, including one "for American Heroes" by William Grant Still. [PWR]
  - Conductor Marin Alsop is the dedicatee of a piece in this genre by Joan Tower, whose title alludes to an earlier piece in this genre which opens with timpani, bass drum, and tam-tam, followed by (*) trumpets playing the ascending notes F, B-flat, F. [PWR]
  - Leo Arnaud's "Bugler's Dream" is in this genre and is used for television presentations of the Olympic Games.
  - Elongated horns designed to hang banners name, for 10 points, pieces in what genre, one of which Aaron Copland wrote "for the Common Man"? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A set of six compositions written over 30 years by Joan Tower have a collective name that responds to the name of this earlier composition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fanfare for the Common Man):
    Name this composition that opens with three percussion calls before the trumpets play the ascending notes [read slowly] "F B-flat F." This piece commissioned by Eugene Goossens is scored only for percussion and brass.
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    This American composer used a Henry Wallace quote as inspiration for his Fanfare for the Common Man. He used the Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts" in his score for the ballet Appalachian Spring.
  Part 3 (ans: Marin Alsop):
    Joan Tower dedicated her piece Fanfare for the Uncommon Woman to this conductor of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra. This conductor became the first woman to direct the Last Night of the Proms in 2013.

[B2] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One work in this medium, Koyaanisqatsi, was accompanied by music composed by Philip Glass. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: film [or movies; or motion pictures]):
    Name this medium for which John Williams has composed many scores.
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland [the piece is Fanfare for the Common Man]):
    This composer wrote scores for film adaptations of the John Steinbeck books Of Mice and Men and The Red Pony. A Henry Wallace speech inspired an orchestral work by this man that opens with notes from the timpani, bass drum, and tam-tam before trumpets play the ascending notes F - B-flat - F.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonny Greenwood (the band is Radiohead)):
    This composer has scored every Paul Thomas Anderson film since There Will Be Blood. He plays the ondes Martenot on "Jigsaw Falling Into Place" and "How to Disappear Completely," songs by a band he and his brother Colin are members of.

[B3] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece was inspired by a wartime speech by Vice President Henry Wallace, and the composer later worked the melody into the final movement of his third symphony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fanfare for the Common Man):
    Name this piece, which begins with five bars of solemn percussion and silence before the three trumpets enter in unison playing the heroic main theme, which sounds as an ascending F - B-flat - F.
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    This composer of Fanfare for the Common Man confessed that he preferred his own version to the cover by Emerson, Lake and Palmer. He also composed Appalachian Spring.
  Part 3 (ans: Joan Tower):
    This contemporary composer responded to Copland's piece with Fanfare for the Uncommon Woman, which uses the same instrumentation. She co-founded the Da Capo Chamber Players and won three Grammys for her 2008 piece Made in America.

[B4] 2019 Delta Burke (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his book What to Listen for in Music, this composer described three "planes" of listening: the sensory, expressive, and musical. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    What 20th-century American composer of A Lincoln Portrait included the section "Hoe Down" in his ballet Rodeo?
  Part 2 (ans: Fanfare for the Common Man):
    Copland's excellent Socialist sympathies are on display in this "Fanfare" he wrote partly based on a speech by Henry Wallace.
  Part 3 (ans: Appalachian Spring):
    The Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts" provides a theme in this Copland composition that depicts a young pioneer couple starting married life.

[B5] 2016 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Joan Tower responded to this work some forty years later with a series of five pieces dedicated to Marin Alsop, and its composer reused its theme in the finale of his Third Symphony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fanfare for the Common Man):
    Name this 1942 work written at the behest of Eugene Goossens for the brass and percussion of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra. It begins with a gong crash and two beats on the timpani and bass drum, which repeats twice before the brass enter with "F-B flat-F".
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    Fanfare for the Common Man was written by this American composer who incorporated the Shaker tune "Simple Gifts" into his Appalachian Spring.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Abraham Dukas):
    This French composer wrote a brass fanfare to precede his ballet La Peri. He also wrote Variations, Interlude, and Finale on a Theme by Rameau and an orchestral scherzo inspired by a Goethe poem.

[B6] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Andre Kostelanetz commissioned this work, which was initially to profile Walt Whitman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Lincoln Portrait):
    Name this composition that includes quotes of Stephen Foster's "Camptown Races" and a narrator reading excerpts from the Gettysburg Address.
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    This American composer of the ballets Rodeo, Billy the Kid, and Appalachian Spring wrote A Lincoln Portrait.
  Part 3 (ans: Fanfare for the Common Man):
    Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra conductor Eugene Goossens commissioned this 1942 Copland work for brass and percussion. Partly inspired by a Henry Wallace speech, it was later reused in Copland's Third Symphony.

[B7] 2013 Collegiate Novice (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A trip this composer took during Great Depression inspired his El Salon Mexico. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    Name this American modernist composer who included a "Hoedown" in his ballet Rodeo.
  Part 2 (ans: fanfare [accept Fanfare for the Common Man]):
    Aaron Copland wrote a work in this genre that is dedicated to the "common man" and includes four French horns, three trumpets, and three trombones.
  Part 3 (ans: Stephen [Collins] Foster):
    Copland's Lincoln Portrait alludes to "Camptown Races," a folk song written by this American songwriter of "Oh! Susanna" and "Old Folks at Home."

[B8] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece was inspired by a Henry Wallace speech and premiered on Tax Day in 1943. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fanfare for the Common Man):
    Name this patriotic piece by an American composer with a distinctive F-B flat-F motif that culminates in a D major chord.
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    Fanfare for the Common Man is a work by this American composer of ballets like Rodeo, Billy the Kid, and Appalachian Spring.
  Part 3 (ans: A Lincoln Portrait):
    "Camptown Races" is often quoted in this Copland work, which was commissioned by Andre Kostelanetz. Its orchestration is interspersed with quotes from the namesake American president's works.

[B9] 2012 Collegiate Novice (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work, originally titled Ballet for Martha, was named for Hart Crane's poem "The Dance." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Appalachian Spring):
    Name this American ballet that contains a set of variations on the Shaker hymn "Simple Gifts."
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland):
    Appalachian Spring was written by this American Composer of Billy the Kid and Rodeo.
  Part 3 (ans: Fanfare for the Common Man):
    This Copland piece, scored for brass and percussion, was inspired by a speech by vice president Henry Wallace, which proclaimed the "dawning of the Century" the title everyman figure.
