=== STOCK CLUES: Kurosawa ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 53 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Japan AND France [accept Nippon or Nihon in place of "Japan"; accept French Republic or Republique francaise in place of "France"] (The films mentioned are Nagisa Oshima's Max mon amour, Kiyoshi Kurosawa's Serpent's Path, Hirokazu Kore-eda's The Truth, and Oshima's Night and Fog in Japan.)
  - Two answers required.
  - In a film by a director from one of these two countries set in the other, a PI discovers that an English diplomat's wife is having an affair with a chimpanzee. [PWR]
  - In 2024, a director from one of these two countries made a gender-swapped remake of his film Serpent's Path in the other. [PWR]
  - In a 2019 film by a director from one of these two countries set in the other, the wife of Ethan Hawke's character disputes her actress mother's memoir The Truth. [PWR]
  - These two countries co-produced the notoriously erotic film (*) In the Realm of the Senses. [PWR]
  - The title of a 1960 film about student activists in one of these two countries was inspired by a 1956 documentary from the other, Night and Fog.
  - A nonlinear 1959 film about these two countries is about an actress and architect known simply as "Her" and "Him." For 10 points, name these two countries central to Hiroshima mon amour. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 Absolute Cinema (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Olympic Games [accept 1936 Berlin Olympics, 1964 Tokyo Olympics; accept Summer Olympics or Winter Olympics; accept Tokyo Olympiad; accept Olympia; prompt on sports, athletics, or competitions; anti-prompt on marathons, races, diving, rowing, or any other Olympic event] (Kurosawa wanted to be in charge of directing the Games' opening and closing ceremonies.)
  - This sort of event is the focus of the most acclaimed films by a director known for always wearing his glasses on top of his bald head; that director is Bud Greenspan. [PWR]
  - After the producers refused the demands of their first choice, Akira Kurosawa, Kon Ichikawa directed a 1965 film about this sort of event for which Kazuo Miyagawa made heavy use of telephoto lenses and oversaw 164 cameramen. [PWR]
  - The opening montage of a film about this sort of event depicts the rubbled ruins of a (*) temple, before fading from a shot of a statue to a man emulating its pose. [PWR]
  - Two "festival" parts make up that film about this sort of event, in which a montage mixes slow motion, reverse motion, and underwater photography to depict men twirling through the air.
  - For 10 points, Leni Riefenstahl's footage of what sort of event leaves out Adolf Hitler's reaction to Jesse Owens winning gold? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 On Cinema at the Buzzer (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Akira Kurosawa
  - A film about doctors by this director includes a scene in which a group of women shout the name of a young thief into a well, with the camera moving down into the well to view their reflection in the water below. [PWR]
  - In that film by this director, an arrogant young doctor arrives at a rural clinic, where he is trained by the title character. [PWR]
  - An alcoholic doctor diagnoses a gangster with (*) tuberculosis in the first of this director's sixteen films with a certain actor. [PWR]
  - This director of Drunken Angel and Red Beard made a film in which a bureaucrat is diagnosed with a "mild ulcer" by a doctor who secretly knows that the bureaucrat actually has stomach cancer and likely has six months to live.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Ikiru. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Kurosawa [accept Akira Kurosawa or Kiyoshi Kurosawa] (The films in the first two clues are Cure and High and Low.)
  - In a film by a director with this surname, a detective with a schizophrenic wife discovers that a man with short-term memory loss was hypnotizing people into slitting his victims' throats in an "X"-shape.
  - In another film by a director with this surname, kidnappers mistakenly abduct a chauffeur's child for ransom.
  - The final shot of another film by that director with this surname shows swords implanted in four burial mounds as one character says "The victory belongs to the peasants." A woodcutter and a priest discuss different murder accounts in a film by a director with this surname, who also directed a lengthy film centered around a monk who joins a group of warriors to defend a village.
  - For 10 points, Rashomon and Seven Samurai were made by a filmmaker with what surname, shared by Japanese directors Kiyoshi and Akira? [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 TELEOLOGY (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Kurosawa [accept Kiyoshi Kurosawa or Akira Kurosawa]
  - In a film by a director with this surname, a woman escapes a kidnapper by running into a mall, where she encounters her former-salaryman husband working as a janitor, prompting her to willingly return to the car of the kidnapper. [PWR]
  - A film by a director with this surname opens with a woman reading aloud from a book about Bluebeard in a mental hospital before an abrupt cut to a man bludgeoning a woman in bed with a pipe. [PWR]
  - A recursive image of two computer monitors appears in a film by a director with this surname focusing on a group of college students investigating a webcam suicide linked to a website promising to allow users to meet a ghost. [PWR]
  - A director with this surname made (*) Tokyo Sonata and another film in which a detective struggles against a Mesmerist who uses a lighter to hypnotize people into carving X's into other people's chests.
  - In a film made by another director with this surname, an elderly man dying of cancer sings a song to himself while sitting on a swing set during a snowfall.
  - For 10 points, give the common surname of the J-Horror director of the films Pulse and Cure, Kiyoshi, and the director of Ikuru, Akira. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Akira Kurosawa (The first three sentences are about Dodes'ka-den, Dersu Uzala, and Dreams, respectively.)
  - This director's first color film includes a shot in which the sun shines extremely brightly behind the futuristic dream house imagined by a beggar and his son.
  - This director's only 70 millimeter film includes a shot in which the moon and the setting sun are visible in opposite corners of the frame while the title hunter explains that the sun is the most important person.
  - A boy ignores his mother's command to stay home when the sun is shining through the rain in the first segment of a (*) 1990 film by this director with segments titled "The Peach Orchard" and "Crows." This director is said to be the first to have aimed the camera directly at the sun, for a 1950 film which ends with the sun coming out as an abandoned baby is taken home by the woodcutter, played by Takashi Shimura.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Rashomon. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Akira Kurosawa
  - In a film by this director, a shot of a man slumped over sobbing at the bottom of a staircase is followed by one of a man violently washing his hair in the shower.
  - In another film by this director, a man goes ice skating with a girl who enjoys making mechanical toy rabbits.
  - A shot of pink smoke above a skyline is the only color in a film by this director in which a rigged briefcase is thrown out of a bathroom window during a climactic train sequence.
  - The final act of a film by this director follows a criminal through noisy bars and a drug den before he's confronted by a shoe executive in prison.
  - A character in one of this director's films who was inspired by Ivan Ilyich builds a playground in a slum and ends the film singing "The Gondola Song" on a snowy swing set after a diagnosis of stomach cancer.
  - For 10 points, name this director of High and Low and Ikiru who also directed many films about samurai. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Reel Knowledge (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: George Lucas and Akira Kurosawa
  - Two answers required. [PWR]
  - In one interview, one of these directors described the influence of the other on his attention to detail and unglamorous nature of set design with the term "immaculate reality", where rules that are set up must be maintained. [PWR]
  - After the success of a film by one of these directors, he used his influence to help the other get the funding needed for their own film Kagemusha. [PWR]
  - A film by one of these directors adapted two bickering peasants from a film by the other and turned them into robots, as well as adapting story elements about saving a princess from (*) Hidden Fortress. [PWR]
  - Part of the influence of silent film and the Western genre on one of this director's 1977 breakout film comes filtered through the films of the other director, like Throne of Blood and Ran.
  - For 10 points, identify these directors, one a member of the New Hollywood movement inspired the mythologist Joseph Campbell, the other a legendary Japanese director of Seven Samurai. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Akira Kurosawa
  - A film by this director ends with the protagonist and villain separated by wire mesh and a glass so harshly reflective, that when one of them speaks, the face of the other perfectly superimposes him. [PWR]
  - In another film by this director, a man rests on a bed of flowers until he is startled by a girl with short hair who claims that she is a boy. [PWR]
  - An executive postpones his takeover of a shoe company to rescue his chauffeur's kidnapped son in a crime film by this director. [PWR]
  - A film by this director ends with two of the title characters dying to (*) musket fire in a rainy battle, after which another wistfully notes, "The farmers have won, not us." In that film by him, which was given a Western adaptation called The Magnificent Seven, peasants hire the title soldiers as protection from bandits. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this director of High and Low and The Seven Samurai. [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Akira Kurosawa
  - The opening chapter of this director's Something Like an Autobiography describes how a recurring sense-memory of sitting in a bathtub influenced his film about an art student who hears Chopin's Raindrop Prelude and is sucked into Wheatfield with Crows, where he converses with a Martin Scorsese-portrayed Van Gogh. [PWR]
  - This director of Dreams relied on his score to thwart censors in a film about a bond between a tubercular lowlife and his alcoholic doctor, the titular (*) Drunken Angel. [PWR]
  - A shoe company executive tries to retrieve his kidnapped son this man's High and Low, while Red Harvest inspired his film about a bodyguard pitting rival gangs against each other that was remade into A Fist Full of Dollars.
  - Sanjuro was the sequel to that work by this man, who directed the Macbeth-inspired Throne of Blood and often worked with Toshiro Mifune.
  - Known for retelling the King Lear story in Ran, for 10 points, identify this Japanese director of The Seven Samurai. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 1990s decrease in cinema profits led Japanese studios to focus on direct-to-video films, initiating a boom in this genre whose films favored atmospheric tension based on showing less. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: horror [accept J-horror]):
    Name this genre that includes Hideo Nakata's Ringu, which Gore Verbinski remade into The Ring, in which people die seven days after viewing a video tape.
  Part 2 (ans: Kiyoshi Kurosawa [prompt on Kurosawa] (He is unrelated to Akira Kurosawa. The film is Cure.)):
    In a film by this J-horror director, a detective hallucinates his forgetful wife hanging herself after investigating the apartment of a man who uses a lighter to hypnotize people and induce them to murder.
  Part 3 (ans: ghost [or yurei; or borei; accept Ghost in the Shell; accept spirit]):
    The dread in Ringu was inspired by Mizoguchi's Ugetsu, in which a potter has an affair with one of these characters. This is the first word in the title of an animated film by Mamoru Oshii in which a cyborg agent hunts down a hacker called the Puppet Master.

[B2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director remarked that an unlicensed movie based on one of his films was "a fine movie, but it was my movie." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Akira Kurosawa):
    Name this director whose company sued Sergio Leone for his film A Fistful of Dollars, which completely ripped off one of this man's movies. A 1960 John Sturges film starring Yul Brynner was also based on one of this director's movies.
  Part 2 (ans: samurai [accept Seven Samurai or Shichinin no Samurai; accept ronin]):
    John Sturges' The Magnificent Seven was a remake of Kurosawa's film about seven of these warriors who help protect a village from bandits.
  Part 3 (ans: Django):
    Like A Fistful of Dollars, another movie based on Kurosawa's Yojimbo was this 1966 film starring Franco Nero as a former Union soldier who carries around a coffin that holds a machine gun.

[B3] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man directed a film more than 5 hours long which explores the relationships between four 37-year-old female friends. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ryusuke  Hamaguchi [or  Hamaguchi Ryusuke]):
    Name this director of Happy Hour . He remarked that 'it becomes easier to focus and react' in multilingual stagings, referring to a theatrical production in a 2021 film he directed.
  Part 2 (ans:  Drive My Car [or  Doraibu Mai Ka ]):
    A multilingual staging of Uncle Vanya appears in this Hamaguchi film, which in 2021 became the first Japanese film nominated for the Best Picture Oscar. It is named after a short story by Haruki Murakami, which itself was named after a Beatles song.
  Part 3 (ans: Akira  Kurosawa [or  Kurosawa Akira]):
    This earlier Japanese director included a character called Murakami in his crime drama Stray Dog. His later films include Rashomon and Seven Samurai .

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film begins with a series of shots depicting a concerned group of parents being thwarted in their attempts to convince their city to build a playground. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ikiru [accept To Live]):
    Name this film about a cancer-stricken bureaucrat who tries to live his life to the fullest after learning of his diagnosis. It was partially inspired by Tolstoy's novella The Death of Ivan Ilyich.
  Part 2 (ans: Akira Kurosawa):
    Ikiru was directed by this Japanese filmmaker of Seven Samurai and Rashomon.
  Part 3 (ans: On the Waterfront):
    In this other film, a man puts on a woman's glove while sitting on a swing during a stroll through a playground. A speech given in a taxicab with blinds in this film describes a "one way ticket to Palookaville."

[B5] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film ends with the protagonist's estranged brother Andi walking away down a dilapidated street. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Raid [or The Raid: Redemption; or Serbuan maut]):
    Name this 2011 Gareth Evans film in which Rama, a police officer who practices silat, takes down the brutal fighter Mad Dog.
  Part 2 (ans: Indonesia [or Republic of Indonesia; or Republik Indonesia]):
    The Raid depicts martial arts styles that are most widely practiced in this country. The documentary The Act of Killing depicts mass killings of communists that brought power to this country's President Suharto.
  Part 3 (ans: yakuza [prompt on Japanese gangs or organized crime or mafia] (Drunken Angel was directed by Akira Kurosawa. Outrage was directed by Takeshi Kitano.)):
    In The Raid 2, the policeman Reza works for one of these groups that opposes the Bangun outfit. Evans credited his inspirations for The Raid 2 to a genre depicting these groups; they appear in both the 2010 film Outrage and the 1948 film Drunken Angel.

[B6] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A group of monks from the Fuke sect of Zen Buddhism called komuso walk around with baskets covering their entire heads while playing these instruments during public festivals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: shakuhachi):
    Name this instrument which is featured along with a biwa and western orchestra in Toru Takemitsu's piece November Steps. This traditional Japanese flute is usually made of bamboo.
  Part 2 (ans: John Williams):
    This film composer featured the shakuhachi heavily in his score for Memoirs of a Geisha. You may know him better for composing Darth Vader's theme song.
  Part 3 (ans: Ran (by Akira Kurosawa)):
    Toru Takemitsu's score to this film includes the track "Flute of Darkness," in which a shakuhachi plays piercing high notes as several buildings burn in the background, as well as the track "Hell's Picture Scroll."

[B7] 2021 ACF Nationals Qualifier (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one of this film's most atmospheric scenes, the central characters encounter the victim of a pirate attack as they ferry across a lake through the moonlight and fog. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ugetsu [or Tales of Ugetsu or Ugetsu Monogatari or The Tales of the Wave after the Rain Moon]):
    Name this film directed by Kenji Mizoguchi, in which the potter Genjuro abandons his family in pursuit of wealth, while his brother Tobei abandons his wife in pursuit of glory as a samurai.
  Part 2 (ans: Akira Kurosawa [accept names in either order]):
    Mizoguchi is generally considered one of the three great directors of Golden Age Japanese cinema, alongside Yasujiro Ozu and this director of Seven Samurai and Rashomon.
  Part 3 (ans: A Fistful of Dollars [or Per un pugno di dollari]):
    Without Kurosawa's permission, his film Yojimbo was remade by Sergio Leone as this Spaghetti Western starring Clint Eastwood. It is the first film in a trilogy that includes The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.

[B8] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This actor starred in all three films of Hiroshi Inagaki's Samurai Trilogy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Toshiro Mifune [accept names in either order]):
    Name this actor whose more famous roles include the analogue to Macbeth in Throne of Blood and the bandit Tajomaru in Rashomon.
  Part 2 (ans: High and Low [or Tengoku to Jigoku]):
    Mifune starred as shoe company executive Kingo Gondo in this adaptation of Ed McBain's novel King's Ransom. In this film, the son of Gondo's chauffeur is kidnapped instead of Gondo's real son.
  Part 3 (ans: Akira Kurosawa [accept names in either order]):
    Throne of Blood, Rashomon, and High and Low were all collaborations between Mifune and this director of Seven Samurai.

[B9] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director's use of two peasants to frame one of his films was imitated by George Lucas' similar use of C-3P0 and R2-D2. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Akira Kurosawa):
    Name this director of The Hidden Fortress, Yojimbo, and Seven Samurai.
  Part 2 (ans: wipes):
    These transitions link a series of bureaucrats who refer a group of women to other departments in a circular process in Kurosawa's Ikiru. Star Wars also borrows Kurosawa's trademark use of the "horizontal" type of this transition.
  Part 3 (ans: the chariot race from Ben-Hur [both film and word "chariot" or clear equivalent are required; prompt on partial]):
    The Phantom Menace contains a homage to this sequence from another movie throughout which golden dolphins are tipped over. Judah triumphs over Stephen Boyd's character in this sequence, the only one in its film not directed by William Wyler.

[B10] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Willem Dafoe received a Best Actor nomination for his role as this person in Julian Schnabel's 2018 film At Eternity's Gate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vincent van Gogh [prompt on Vincent]):
    Name this artist. The oil-painted animated film Loving [this person] depicts this Dutch artist's relationship with his brother Theo and includes shots of paintings like The Night Cafe.
  Part 2 (ans: Kirk Douglas):
    This actor starred in Vincente Minnelli's adaptation of an Irving Stone novel about Vincent van Gogh, Lust for Life. He later collaborated with Stanley Kubrick on the films Spartacus and Paths of Glory.
  Part 3 (ans: Akira Kurosawa (The other film is Ran.)):
    An aspiring artist enters into a landscape of the Langlois ("long-lwah") Bridge and meets Vincent van Gogh in "Crows," a short film from this director's collection Dreams. A blood-orange sky provides the backdrop of the final shot of another of his films, which shows a blind man standing atop some ruins.

[B11] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this film, a dollying camera follows three men whose footsteps echo in a puddle-filled tunnel, nicknamed the "Meat-Grinder," from which they enter a room filled with dunes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stalker):
    Name this film based on the novel Roadside Picnic. It follows three men who seek a wish-granting room in a dangerous area called "the Zone."
  Part 2 (ans: Soviet Union [or USSR; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; prompt on Russia]):
    The director of Stalker, Andrei Tarkovsky, was from this country, and the film was produced by its Mosfilm studio. Mosfilm also produced this country's film Battleship Potemkin.
  Part 3 (ans: Akira Kurosawa):
    This director created a film about the Siberian hunter Dersu Uzala for Mosfilm. A Fistful of Dollars is a remake of this non-Russian director's film about two criminal families competing for the services of a bodyguard.

[B12] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this film, we never see a close-up of the face of the apparently beautiful Lady Sue. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ran):
    Name this King Lear-inspired film in which Hidetora divides his kingdom among his three sons.
  Part 2 (ans: Akira Kurosawa):
    Ran is by this Japanese director of Seven Samurai.
  Part 3 (ans: Kagemusha [or Shadow Warrior]):
    In this Palme d'Or winner by Kurosawa, a thief who has been saved from crucifixion impersonates the deceased warlord Shingen.

[B13] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions on autobiographies, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Adams (The Education of Henry Adams is the book)):
    This man's autobiography describes his visit to the Paris EXPO of 1900 and his bewilderment at the advances of technology in a chapter titled "The Dynamo and the Virgin." He also lamented how education often results accumulated ignorance in "the form of inert facts."
  Part 2 (ans: Akira Kurosawa (accept names in either order)):
    Something Like An Autobiography is a book by this film director. One chapter relates the struggle of his crew to get their equipment to the summit of Mt. Fuji, only for the light to fail, requiring them to take it all back down again and come back the next day.
  Part 3 (ans: Salman Rushdie):
    This author chronicled the time he spent in hiding after the publication of his novel Satanic Verses in his autobiography Joseph Anton: A Memoir.

[B14] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about jesters, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Akira Kurosawa [accept names in either order]):
    The court jester Kyoami appears in Ran, a film adaptation of King Lear directed by this Japanese director of Yojimbo and Seven Samurai.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of Tonga [or Puleʻanga Fakatuʻi ʻo Tonga]):
    In 1999, Bank of America financial advisor Jesse Bogdonoff was appointed to the position of court jester by Taufa'ahau Tupou IV, the king of this only sovereign indigenous monarchy in Oceania.
  Part 3 (ans: Henrietta Maria of France [or Henriette Marie]):
    The court dwarf Jeffrey Hudson, who was known as "Lord Minimus", served in the court of this queen consort of England, the mother of Charles II and James II.

[B15] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the end of this film, a woodcutter decides to take care of an abandoned baby. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rashomon):
    Name this film, in which various characters tell conflicting versions of the story of the murder of a samurai and the rape of his wife.
  Part 2 (ans: Akira Kurosawa):
    Rashomon was directed by this man, whose other films include Seven Samurai and Ran.
  Part 3 (ans: Toshiro Mifune):
    This actor, who played the bandit in Rashomon, appeared in many other Kurosawa films. He played the title bodyguard of Yojimbo, and portrayed Kikuchiyo in Seven Samurai.

[B16] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The blind peasant Tsurumaru is the only one to escape the carnage of this film. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ran (or Chaos)):
    Name this film, an adaptation of King Lear in which a warlord of the Ichimonji clan attempts to divide his land among his three sons, with obviously disastrous results.
  Part 2 (ans: Akira Kurosawa):
    Ran is a film by this Japanese director, who showed a hired group of warriors defend a farming hamlet from a group of thugs in Seven Samurai. Several of his films star Toshihiro Mifune.
  Part 3 (ans: Ikiru, or To Live):
    This Kurosawa film details the story of an old bureaucrat who, upon learning he has stomach cancer, decides to build a children's playground.
