=== STOCK CLUES: Hugo van der Goes ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Gaspar Ofhuys' account of this painter's mental breakdown in which he thought his soul was lost inspired an Emile Wauters painting in which he sits on a monastery chair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hugo van der Goes):
    Name this painter and resident of the Red Cloisters, who painted a work whose off-kilter shepherds inspired Domenico Ghirlandaio's "Adoration of the Shepherds."
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Judgment):
    The Portinari altarpiece was the first oil on panel work in Florence, beating out Hans Memling's stolen painting of this scene. Daniele da Voltera earned the nickname Il Braghettone for his work on a painting of this scene.
  Part 3 (ans: Flanders [or Flemish painting]):
    Hugo van der Goes and Hans Memling were both considered part of the early Netherlandish painters from this Dutch-speaking region of Belgium.

[B2] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A female fifteenth century artist depicted the Maid of this city petting a lion for its flag. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ghent [or Gaunt; or The Ghent Altarpiece; or Maid of Ghent]):
    Name this city, which Agnes van den Bossche painted in. Two brothers painted an altarpiece in this city that depicts the Adoration of the Mystic Lamb in its lower register.
  Part 2 (ans: triptych):
    Hans Memling featured van der Bossche's Maid of Ghent as a background figure of the Moreel Family in one of these artworks. These artworks contain a central scene with two foldable wings and are frequently used as altarpieces.
  Part 3 (ans: Hugo van der Goes [or Hugo of Antwerp; or Ugo d'Anversa]):
    van der Bossche studied in the painter's guild of Ghent under this artist. Domenico Ghirlandaio's depiction of the Adoration of the Shepherds in the Sassetti Chapel was inspired by viewing this artist's Portinari Altarpiece, which was the largest Flemish work in Florence.

[B3] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The best-known painting by the Belgian artist Emile Wauters depicts this artist's late-career mental breakdown, which van Gogh compared himself to in letters to his brother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hugo van der Goes):
    Name this artist, who depicted the Adoration of the Magi in his Monforte Altarpiece. His best-known painting was installed in the hospital of Santa Maria Nuova, where it became a major influence on Italian artists.
  Part 2 (ans: van Eyck [accept Jan van Eyck or Hubert van Eyck; prompt on partial surname]):
    van der Goes was said to have gone mad after his Portinari Altarpiece failed to exceed the Ghent Altarpiece, a work by two artists with this surname. One of those artists with this surname painted the Arnolfini Marriage.
  Part 3 (ans: The Annunciation to the Blessed Virgin Mary):
    The Portinari Altarpiece displays this scene in grisaille [griz-EYE] on its exterior panels, as does the Ghent Altarpiece. Depictions of this scene, like the one in the centre of the Merode Altarpiece, often include lilies.

[B4] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some Early Netherlandish painters, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    With his brother Hubert, this artist created the Ghent Altarpiece. He also painted The Arnolfini Wedding.
  Part 2 (ans: Rogiervan der Weyden [accept either underlined portion]):
    This artist's version of The Descent from the Cross shows a skull below a fainting Mary and puts Jesus in a T-shape pose. He painted the birth, death, and resurrection of Jesus in the Miraflores Altarpiece.
  Part 3 (ans: Hugo van der Goes [or Hugo of Antwerp; or Ugo d'Anversa; prompt on Hugo]):
    This artist created a richly colored depiction of the Adoration of the Magi called the Monforte Altarpiece. Some credited Andrea del Castagno with creating this artist's famous depiction of the Adoration of the Shepherds.
