=== STOCK CLUES: Catherine the Great ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 19 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Guerrilla History (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: rat (Catherine the Great was the wife who made the sarcastic remark in the first line)
  - When he wasn't busy publically calling his wife a whore, Peter III of Russia court-martialed one of these animals; found guilty, it was hanged "without having been heard in his own defense." They aren't bears, but a non-film-related Jack Black is renowned for locating these animals, hundreds of which simultaneously fought a single (*) terrier in one blood sport.
  - The Norway variety of these animals is the most common variety found today, while the black variety was responsible for carrying the Yersinia pestis-filled fleas that lead to the Black Death.
  - For 10 points, upon an individual's sense of suspicion, which creatures may be "smelled?" [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II]
  - At this monarch's suggestion, a prompt asking what property rights peasants should have was used for the inaugural essay competition run by the Free Economic Society.
  - This monarch ordered the creation of the Assignation Bank, which issued paper bills backed by copper currency. [PWR]
  - This monarch gained port cities such as Kerch through an unequal peace that was confirmed by the Treaty of Jassy and signed in the Bulgarian village of (*) Kuchuk Kainarji. [PWR]
  - The Confederation of Bar opposed this monarch's ally Stanislaus II, who was stripped of power after a victory against the Kosciuszko  Uprising led to the third Partition of Poland.
  - This ruler was brought to power by a coup d'etat against her husband, Peter III.
  - For 10 points, name this enlightened despot and longest-serving empress of Russia. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Catherine the Great [accept Catherine II or Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst]
  - This ruler created the Assignation Bank, which issued the country's first paper money, and confirmed the Manifesto on Freedom of the Nobility. [PWR]
  - At the urging of Ivan Betskoy, this ruler opened the Smolny Institute for women's education. [PWR]
  - (*) This ruler backed Stanislaw Poniatowski, then the Targowica Confederation against him, and faced Pugachev's Rebellion.
  - An advisor famously showed this ruler fake "Potemkin villages," and this ruler came to power in a coup against Peter III, her spouse.
  - For 10 points, name this "Great" Russian Empress with many lovers. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II of Russia; or Yekaterina Alexeevna; or Sophie von Anhalt-Zerbst]
  - After a defeat, the leader of an uprising against this ruler supposedly watched a city burn from the Mari forest under his namesake oak tree; that leader was beheaded and cut into four pieces to be displayed on wheels before the pieces were burned.
  - This non-French ruler set up two banks for paper currency, including one designed by Giacomo Quarenghi located at the old Sea Market building, and each bank created 500,000 notes of "assignation" currency to replace the glut of impractical copper money.
  - One hundred wives and daughters of the Greek Infantry Battalion were enlisted to receive this ruler as the "Amazon Company" during a tour of the Tauric provinces.
  - This ruler's threat to intervene forced the Treaty of Teschen in the War of Bavarian Succession.
  - For 10 points, identify this ruler for whom fake settlements known as "Potemkin Villages" were erected during her 1787 visit to the Crimea that she annexed. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 MRNA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This ruler's establishment of a State Lending Bank, or the Assignat Bank, is credited with further entrenching the positions of landed gentry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine the Great [accept Catherine II; accept Princess Sophia Augusta Frederica; prompt on Catherine]):
    Name this ruler who promulgated the Nakaz. This ruler forcibly disbanded the Zaporozhian Host in the fertile Wild Fields and conquered the area around the Black Sea through war with the Ottomans.
  Part 2 (ans: serfs [accept krepostnoy krest'yanin]):
    The Cossack Yemelyan Pugachev challenged Catherine's reign and proclaimed the freedom of this class of people. This class was freed by Alexander II.
  Part 3 (ans: slave raids [accept kidnappings or abductions in place of "raids"; accept answers involving the capture of slaves; prompt on partial answers]):
    Catherine's wars in Crimea were in part motivated to end these events that the Crimean Khanate and the Nogai Horde had undertaken in the Wild Fields.

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This monarch sought to revive the Byzantine Empire through the Greek Plan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine]):
    Name this Russian empress whose lover Grigory Potemkin was the architect of the Greek Plan.
  Part 2 (ans: Konstantin [or Konstantin Pavlovich; or Constantine]):
    The Greek Plan would have entailed this grandson of Catherine ruling a neo-Byzantine state. This Grand Duke later served as de facto governor of Congress Poland and removed himself from the line of succession in 1823.
  Part 3 (ans: Orlov [or Orlov revolt; or Alexei Grigoryevich Orlov; or Grigory Grigoryevich Orlov]):
    As part of the project, Catherine the Great backed a revolt in Greece by sending an admiral with this surname. His brother Grigory helped install Catherine in 1762, becoming one of her early advisors and lovers.

[B3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A ship-owner nicknamed "John the Teacher" was promised that his rebellion would be supported by a commander with this surname, but that aid never materialized. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orlov [or Orloff; or Grigory Grigoryevich Orlov or Alexei Grigoryevich Orlov-Chesmensky]):
    Give this surname of Alexei, the victorious commander of the Battle of Cesme ("CHESH-may"), who also names a failed Greek rebellion against Ottoman rule. That commander's brother with this surname presented his lover with a diamond that may be the same as the Great Mogul Diamond.
  Part 2 (ans: Mani Peninsula [or Mane or Maina Peninsula; accept Maniots or Maniates]):
    The Orlov Revolt began when Alexei Orlov landed in this region. In one of the first military actions of the Greek War of Independence, rebels from this region of the Peloponnese took the city of Kalamata.
  Part 3 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine]):
    This ruler formulated the "Greek Plan" to partition the Ottoman Empire and was the lover of Grigory Orlov.

[B4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This leader issued the Proclamation of Polaniec ("poh-WAN-itz") during a conflict in which he commanded peasant militias armed with scythes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tadeusz Kosciuszko ("kosh-CHOOSH-ko") [or Andrzej Tadeusz Bonawentura Kosciuszko]):
    Name this leader who led the Polish Uprising of 1794. This engineer had previously built fortifications near Saratoga and West Point during the American Revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Suvorov [or Alexander Vasilyevich Suvorov]):
    Kosciuszko's Uprising was put down by this general, who escaped Andre Massena in Italy by leading an army over the Swiss Alps. This general successfully stormed the Ottoman fort at Izmail.
  Part 3 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine; prompt on Princess Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst]):
    Kosciuszko's Uprising occurred during the reign of this enlightened despot and Empress of Russia who was advised by Grigory Potemkin.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Prince Dmytro Vyshnevetsky ("vish-neh-VETS-ski") established a stronghold on this region's Mala Khortytsia ("KOR-tits-yuh") Island, near where Vladimir the Great's grandfather Sviatoslav was killed by Pecheneg raiders. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaporizhzhia ("za-po-REEZH-yuh") [or Zaporozhzhia or Zaporzke or Zaporozhtsi; accept Zaporizhian Host or Zaporizhian Sich; accept Zaporizhian Cossacks or Zaporizhians; prompt on Dnieper River; prompt on Dnipropetrovsk Oblast or Dnipropetrovshchyna; prompt on Ukraine]):
    Identify this region whose namesake Host was governed by chief officers called the koshovyi ("kuh-SHOHV-yee"). This region, whose name means "land beyond the rapids," also names a Sich ("seetch") that was destroyed by Peter Tekeli.
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II of Russia; accept Yekaterina Alekseyevna; accept Sophie Fredericke Auguste or Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst; prompt on Catherine of Russia]):
    This empress ordered the destruction of the Zaporizhian Sich after the Russo-Turkish War ended in her favor in 1774. An army of Ural Cossacks under Yemelyan Pugachev burned Kazan during a rebellion against this ruler.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Poltava):
    Russian distrust of Zaporizhian leaders or hetmans had earlier climaxed with Ivan Mazepa's betrayal at this 1709 battle of the Great Northern War, after which Peter the Great captured Field Marshal Carl Rehnskiold ("RAIN-skyold").

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This village hosted a shadow government with its own prikazy and its own patriarch, Filaret. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tushino [accept the "rebel of Tushino"; accept the "thief of Tushino"]):
    Name this village that a pretender used as a capital for two years after he won the Battle of Bolkhov. That pretender, who was known as the "rebel of" this village, married Marina Mniszech ("MEE-sheck"), the widow of another pretender.
  Part 2 (ans: Time of Troubles [or Smutnoye vremya]):
    The pretender was one of the three "False Dmitrys" who claimed the Tsardom of Russia during this chaotic period that ended with the accession of Michael Romanov.
  Part 3 (ans: bells [accept church bells; accept Fyodor I the Bellringer; accept the "naughty bell"] (Catherine the Great had the clapper removed from the bell that caused the mob to form during the riot.)):
    The last tsar before the Time of Troubles was Fyodor I, who got his nickname from his obsession with these objects. Catherine the Great had one of these objects mutilated over its alleged role in sparking the 1771 plague riot.

[B7] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The first European use of paper currency occurred during a 1574 Spanish siege of this city by Francisco de Valdez. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leiden):
    Name this Dutch city, where William I of Orange founded a university to honor the repulsion of the Spanish siege. The jurist Hugo Grotius graduated from this city's university.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of Sweden):
    This European country was the first to introduce banknotes in 1661, replacing the riksdaler. Banks were first chartered under the orders of this country's Vasa dynasty, whose members included Gustavus Adolphus.
  Part 3 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine]):
    This ruler created the Assignation Bank, the first to print currency in its nation. This ruler also compiled the Nakaz, a new law code which abolished the death penalty.

[B8] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The last leader of this state challenged Ivan the Terrible to invade, declaring "All is ready for you here. We invite you to the feast". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Khanate of Kazan):
    Name this state whose last ruler, Yadegar Mohammed, was deposed following a 1552 siege by Ivan.
  Part 2 (ans: Veliky Novgorod):
    Kazan faced constant raids from ushkuyniki pirates from this city. Archbishop Pimen was forced to ride backwards on a mare as punishment for treason during a 1570 massacre in this city led by Ivan's oprichniki.
  Part 3 (ans: Catherine the Great [accept Catherine II or Princess Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst]):
    Kazan was sacked during Pugachev's Rebellion, which took place during this empress' reign. Pugachev claimed to be this tsarina's murdered husband, Peter III.

[B9] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man's ghost supposedly haunts the town of Oranienbaum, protecting children from German bombs during World War II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter III [prompt on Peter]):
    Name this ruler, whose assumption to the throne was termed "The Miracle of the House of Brandenburg" by Frederick the Great. This Tsar's most famous impersonator was Yemelyan Pugachev.
  Part 2 (ans: Montenegro [or Prince-Bishopric of Montenegro; or Principality of Montenegro; or Kingdom of Montenegro]):
    Claiming to be Peter III, the conman Stephen the Little was accepted as tsar by the people of this prince-bishopric. This small Adriatic principality secularized under Danilo I and split Sandjak with Serbia after the First Balkan War.
  Part 3 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine]):
    Peter III was overthrown by this woman, his wife and successor, with the help of the Orlov brothers. This tsarina who corresponded with Voltaire counted Grigory Potemkin among her lovers.

[B10] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the career of the mysterious 18th century Italian occultist Alessandro Cagliostro AKA Giuseppe Balsamo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II]):
    During his years bopping around European courts acting as a psychic healer and magician, he failed to gain patronage with this "great" Russian Tsarina who gained the throne after the assassination of her husband Peter III.
  Part 2 (ans: The Affair of the Diamond Necklace [prompt on necklace]):
    Balsamo was imprisoned in the Bastille for his alleged involvement in a French scandal named for this specific piece of jewelry. The event named for this object involved Marie Antoinette supposedly trying to defraud the royal jewelers.
  Part 3 (ans: Freemasonry [or Freemasons]):
    Balsamo ultimately died in prison after being captured by Inquisition spies for belonging to this fraternal organization that organizes in lodges and is symbolised with a sextant and a square.

[B11] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: In a major scene in this work, its protagonist converses with a number of intelligent serfs who have been illegally sold into military service. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Journey from St. Petersburg to Moscow [or Journey from Petersburg to Moscow or Puteshestvie iz Peterburga v Moskvu; also accept the title with either the article "A" or "The"]):
    Identify this polemical work by Aleksandr Radishchev ("ruh-DEE-shev") which attacks the institution of serfdom in Russia along with various other government policies. This book was quickly banned after it was published in 1790, and its author was exiled to Siberia.
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; or Ekaterina II; or Ekaterina velikaia; or Ekaterina Alekseevna; or Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst]):
    Radishchev's Journey was published during the reign of this empress, who read and criticized it. Although she had been heavily influenced by Enlightenment philosophy, she did not call for the emancipation of the serfs.
  Part 3 (ans: Nakaz [or Instructions to the Legislative Commission]):
    Diderot criticized Catherine in his Observations on this Enlightenment-inspired text which she wrote to guide the work of the Legislative Commission. In it, she suggested that agriculture is most successful when farmers own their own land, and it drew heavily on the writings of Montesquieu ("MON-tuh-skew") and Beccaria ("beck-uh-REE-uh").

[B12] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This state was merged into the Taurida Oblast by Russia after its 1783 annexation, which was recognized by the Treaty of Jassy (YAH-see) and resulted in an exodus of Tatars into Ottoman territory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crimean Khanate [or Khanate of Crimea; prompt on "Crimea"]):
    Name this country that was a vassal state of the Ottoman Empire until it was given nominal independence by the Treaty of Kuchuk Kainarji (KOO-chuck kye-NAR-jee). For the entirety of its existence, it was ruled by the Giray (gee-"RYE") dynasty.
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II of Russia; prompt on "Catherine"]):
    The annexation of the Crimea occurred during the reign of this Russian tsarina, who inspected the area on a visit arranged by her lover Grigory Potemkin. This empress was considered an "enlightened despot."
  Part 3 (ans: John Paul Jones [accept John Paul or Pavel de Zhoves]):
    This American officer served in Catherine's navy during the Russo-Turkish War of 1787, in which he feuded with the prince of Nassau-Siegen. He captained the Bonhomme Richard (bahn-ahm ree-shard) during the American Revolution.

[B13] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This political body was encouraged to give greater rights to the burghers after the Black Procession protests. For 10 points each;
  Part 1 (ans: Great Sejm [accept Four-Year Sejm and anything with Sejm in it; prompt on parliament of Poland or equivalents]):
    Name this political body, whose "Great" form lasted from 1788 to 1792 and is best known for passing the historic Constitution of May 3, 1791.
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine II [or Catherine the Great; or Yekaterina Alexeyevna]):
    The Great Sejm's reforms were opposed by the Targowica Confederation, which was supported by this Russian ruler. Grigori Potemkin's chief of staff wrote the Confederation's founding act.
  Part 3 (ans: The Hetmans' Party [or the Magnates' Party; or the Muscovite Party; prompt on Conservative Party; prompt on Old-Nobility Party]):
    The nominal leader of the Targowica Confederation, Stanislaw Potocki, was a member of this pro-Russian, pro-nobility, conservative Polish political party that opposed reforms. It was named for a very high-ranking Polish military title.

[B14] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer some questions about a ruler with many lovers, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II or Ekaterina Alexandrovna]):
    This empress of Russia included Grigory Orlov and Grigory Potemkin as many of her favorites. Under her reign, the Smolny institute, the first institute for women, was founded.
  Part 2 (ans: Poland-Lithuania [do NOT prompt on partial answer]):
    Another of Catherine's lovers, Count Poniatowski (POWN-ee-uh-TOW-skee), was the last Grand Duke of this commonwealth founded by the Union of Lublin.
  Part 3 (ans: John Paul Jones):
    Another person employed by Catherine the Great was this naval commander, who commanded the Vladmir during the Russo-Turkish War. He moved to Russia after losing his ship at the Battle of Flamborough Head.

[B15] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler had author Aleksander Radishchev exiled for publishing the anti-serfdom book Journey from St. Petersburg to Moscow. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II of Russia; accept Yekaterina Alexeevna]):
    Name this Russian ruler who succeeded her husband Peter III after his assassination. The rising serfdom issue resulted in Pugachev's rebellion against this female "enlightened despot."
  Part 2 (ans: Stanislaw August Poniatowski [or Stanislaw II August; prompt on partial answers]):
    Catherine became the lover of this future Polish king at age 26. He could not prevent the partitions of Poland, which ended with this man's abdication and the end of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.
  Part 3 (ans: Crimean Peninsula):
    In 1783, Russia annexed this region under the direction of Catherine's diplomat Grigory Potemkin. During Catherine's visit to this region and New Russia, Potemkin apocryphally erected fake villages to impress her.

[B16] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler came to power by overthrowing Ivan VI and his regent Anna Leopoldovna. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth [or Yelizaveta]):
    Name this ruler, whose death ended Russia's involvement in the Seven Years' War.
  Part 2 (ans: Table of Ranks [or Tabel O Rangakh]):
    Elizabeth created the Corps of Cadets so that the nobility could skip the lowest levels of this meritocratic civil service hierarchy created by her father, Peter the Great.
  Part 3 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II or Yekaterina II Velikaya or Sophie Friederike Auguste, Prinzessin von Anhalt-Zerbst]):
    Elizabeth died childless, and was succeeded by her nephew, Peter III. Peter was overthrown shortly thereafter by this wife of his, who reigned as a "Great" czarina with the assistance of her minister, Grigory Potemkin.

[B17] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: One attempt by this monarch to reform his country's constitution led to the formation of the Confederation of Radom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stanislaw II August Poniatowski [accept either underlined answer]):
    Identify this man who was installed as the King of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1764 following the death of Augustus III.
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II or Yekaterina Alexeevna]):
    Stanislaw, like Grigory Potemkin and Grigory Orlov, was a favorite of this monarch.
  Part 3 (ans: May 3, 1791):
    The Confederation of Targowica was formed to oppose a new constitution signed on this date during the latter years of Stanislaw's rule.

[B18] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man served under Zakhar Chernyshov during the Seven Years' War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yemelyan Ivanovich Pugachev):
    Name this leader of a 1773 to 1775 rebellion who proclaimed a government opposed to serfdom while pretending to be Peter III.
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; or Yekaterina Alekseyevna; or Yekaterina Velikaya; or Sophie Friederike Auguste; prompt on Catherine]):
    Pugachev's Rebellion occurred during the reign of this Russian empress, whose favorites included Grigory Potemkin.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Kazan):
    Pugachev was forced to escape across the Volga after being defeated by Ivan Michelson in battles around this city in 1774, which then led to the end of the rebellion.

[B19] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This ruler vanquished the Khanate of Crimea and her navy won the Battle of Chesme. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II; prompt on Catherine]):
    Name this Russian ruler whose lovers may have included Grigory Orlov and Stanislaw Poniatowski.
  Part 2 (ans: League of Armed Neutrality):
    Catherine's son and successor, the eccentric Paul I, organized this alliance, which the British saw as a threat, resulting in Admiral Nelson destroying its fleet at the Battle of Copenhagen.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludwig von der Pahlen):
    Tsar Paul I was assassinated by this man, for whom the plot is usually named. He and General Yashvil stormed St. Michael's Palace, finding the emperor cowardly hiding behind some drapes.

[B20] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: She gave a Charter to the Nobility and to the Towns as well as the Instruction to the Legislative Council For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catherine II of Russia or Catherine the Great [accept Yekaterina II Velikaya or Katharina die Grosse]):
    Name this ruler who had many lovers including the last king of Poland, Stanislaw Poniatowski and Grigoriy Potemkin, who oversaw Russia's expansion into the Crimea during her reign.
  Part 2 (ans: Grigory Grigorievich Orlov):
    This artillery commander and lover of Catherine organized the coup that overthrew Paul III. This first leader of the Free Economic Society later gave a namesake diamond to Catherine to try and win her back.
  Part 3 (ans: Pale of Settlement or cherta osedlosti):
    Shetls were communities in this area set up by Catherine in 1791 to appease the merchant classes. Its designated inhabitants were generally unable to live outside this area and were often subject to pogroms.

[B21] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This issuer of the Proclamation of Polaniec left money in his will to purchase and free all of Thomas Jefferson's slaves, though Jefferson never executed it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tadeus Kosciuszko):
    Identify this man who led an uprising that ended at the Battle of Praga in defense of the Constitution of May 3rd .
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II]):
    This Czarina intervened against the Constitution of May 3rd, 1791 at the behest of the Targowica Confederation and had earlier placed Stanislaw Poniatowski on the Polish-Lithuanian throne before overseeing the Third Partition of Poland.
  Part 3 (ans: Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth [or Poland-Lithuanaia Commonwealth]):
    The Third Partition of Poland formally ended this political entity, which had earlier endured Bohdan Khmelnytsky's Cossack rebellion. This state, which was invaded by Sweden during the Deluge, arose from Poland's entry into the Union of Lublin.
