=== STOCK CLUES: Alexander Hamilton ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 34 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Hamilton's Love Letters to his wife [or to Elizabeth Schuyler before mentioned; accept equivalents; answer must supply sender and recipient; prompt on answers like "writings by Hamilton" with "what kind of writings?", and on answers of "letters by Hamilton" with "to whom?"]
  - One of these documents, part of a published collection curated by Harold Syrett, was subjected to hyperspectral analysis in 2018 to reveal that crossed-out text contained a racy section about "unrestrained intercourses." The last of these documents to be produced expresses regret that its author could not "avoid the interview" necessitated after Charles Cooper wrote an account of a dinner party speech given by the author. [PWR]
  - The recipient of these documents laments that "your enemy whispers so you have to scream" before noting "I know about whispers" in a (*) rearrangement of a piece whose original version explains that these documents "built palaces out of paragraphs" and "flooded my senses." That track is sung during the destruction of many of these documents after the recipient declares "the world has no place in our bed / they don't get to know what I said," and occurs after the author of these documents admits his affair with Maria Reynolds. [PWR]
  - The song "Burn" concerns the destruction of-for 10 points-what documents written by the first Treasury Secretary to Eliza Schuyler? [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Hamilton [accept Alexander Hamilton or Andrew Hamilton]
  - A man with this surname founded the Tuesday Club in Maryland and is noted for his 1744 Itinerarium chronicling his journey from Maryland to Maine.
  - Another man with this surname joined future son-in-law William Allen on a project to build the future Independence Hall.
  - That man with this surname inspired the term "Philadelphia lawyer" for his brilliant defense of John Peter Zenger in a celebrated libel trial.
  - Another man with this surname wrote 51 of the 85 papers credited to "Publius" that defended the Constitution.
  - That Cabinet member with this surname produced the First Report on Public Credit and advocated for a National Bank.
  - For 10 points, identify this surname of the first Secretary of the Treasury, a Federalist leader named Alexander. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton
  - According to a letter by Charles D. [PWR]
  - Cooper, one of these two people expressed a "despicable opinion" about the other, prompting a failed attempt to extract an apology. [PWR]
  - One of these two people convinced James A. [PWR]
  - Bayard and several of his colleagues to abstain from voting, in order to prevent the other from being elected President. [PWR]
  - To compete with the other's (*) Bank of New York, one of these two people founded the Manhattan Company bank under the guise of establishing a shoddy water system.
  - One of these two people won a Senate seat against the other's father-in-law, Philip Schuyler.
  - One of these two people was tried for treason a few years after he was acquitted of killing the other in Weehawken, New Jersey.
  - For 10 points, name these two people who were involved in an 1804 duel. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 VICO (2015) | Diff: 9 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Alexander Hamilton
  - This man once hilariously advised a colleague that "Real firmness is good for everything. [PWR]
  - Strut is good for nothing." In a recent fictional appearance, this man responds to the comment "You got more than you gave" with the declaration "And I wanted what I got." In that same work, three characters conspire to "follow the money and see where it leads / Get in the weeds, look for the seeds" of this man's "misdeeds." Mary P. [PWR]
  - Hamlin and George Arliss co-wrote a play about this man, whom Arliss later portrayed in a 1931 film. [PWR]
  - This man "put a pencil to his temple / connected it to his brain / and he wrote his first refrain / a testament to his pain" according to a namesake (*) "Mixtape" rapped by the composer of In the Heights at the White House. [PWR]
  - This historical figure is the subject of a recent Off-Broadway musical written by Lin-Manuel Miranda.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Report on Manufactures and father of the National Bank of the United States. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: The duel between Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton [accept clear equivalents, such as "Burr shooting Hamilton"]
  - During this event, William Van Ness used an umbrella to hide the winner's face from potential witnesses, including David Hosack.
  - The victor of this encounter was later charged with treason after allegedly conspiring with James Wilkinson to form an empire in the western United States.
  - The loser had previously railed against his "dangerous" opponent's campaigns for both the governorship of New York and the US presidency.
  - Two shots were fired at this event in Weehawken, New Jersey.
  - For 10 points, identify this encounter of 1804, in which the third Vice President of the United States shot and fatally wounded the first US Secretary of the Treasury. [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Alexander Hamilton
  - This man wrote the 95-page Observations on Certain Documents, in which he refuted corruption charges levied by James Thomson Callender.This politician was having an affair with the wife of a man speculating on unpaid back wages intended for war veterans, a scandal uncovered by Speaker of the House Frederick Muhlenberg. [PWR]
  - He paid James (*) Reynolds blackmail money to temporarily avoid reports that he was having an affair with Reynolds' wife, Maria.
  - This man suggested using an army to invade Spanish colonies after he succeeded George Washington as Senior Officer of the United States Army.
  - He was called a "bastard brat of a Scotch pedlar" by John Adams, whom he battled for party control.
  - This man was killed in 1804 in Weehawken, New Jersey.
  - For 10 points, name this Federalist leader killed in a duel with Aaron Burr. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Several Revolutionary War heroes have now been adopted as queer icons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    This Founding Father exchanged flirty letters with John Laurens, leading some historians to speculate he may have been bisexual. He would later become the first Secretary of the Treasury.
  Part 2 (ans: Baron von Steuben [or Friedrich Wilhelm August Heinrich Ferdinand von Steuben]):
    One of America's earliest openly gay figures was this Continental Army general, who likely had a romantic relationship with his aide-de-camp William North. This general's secretary John Mulligan was also gay.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Monmouth):
    The discipline of a retreat by Charles Lee at this battle is credited to Baron von Steuben's training. Molly Pitcher legendarily loaded cannons after taking her husband's place at this 1778 New Jersey battle.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Letters written by French emigre Hector St. John de Crevecœur ("krev-KURR") as an "American" one of these people documented everyday life in colonial America. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: farmers [accept Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania; accept Letters from an American Farmer]):
    The use of what profession as a rhetorical persona was pioneered by John Dickinson, who wrote letters under the name of one of them "in Pennsylvania?"
  Part 2 (ans: Anti-Federalist Papers (Elbridge Gerry is now thought to be the writer of the Federal Farmer letters.)):
    In 1965, letters by another "Farmer," thought to be Elbridge Gerry, were collected under this title alongside writings supporting the same position from the pseudonymous Brutus, Cato, and Centinel.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Hamilton ):
    This man's first published works refuted the loyalist Westchester Farmer Samuel Seabury. This man wrote 51 Federalist Papers and served as the first Secretary of the Treasury.

[B3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A Tory with this surname disputed the inheritance of Macclesfield with Charles Mohun, a rakish Whig, which turned into a legendarily savage swordfight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hamilton [accept James Hamilton, 4th Duke of Hamilton or Alexander Hamilton]):
    Give this surname shared by the aforementioned Scottish nobleman, who died in a duel in Hyde Park in 1712, and a distant American relative of his, who died in a duel in Weehawken, New Jersey in 1804.
  Part 2 (ans: George Macartney [accept Macartney embassy]):
    Mohun's second in the duel, who had the first name George and this surname, stabbed Hamilton to death after Hamilton killed Mohun. Another George with this surname refused to kowtow while leading a 1798 embassy to China.
  Part 3 (ans: Cheesecake House [or Cake House; or Minced-Pie House; or Price's Lodge; reject "Cheese House" or "Pie House" or "The Cheesecake Factory"]):
    Mohun and Hamilton got away with the duel by lying to Hyde Park's groundskeeper that they were visiting this building. Though sometimes just called The Lodge, it is more memorably named for a foodstuff.

[B4] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Description acceptable. The "Anas" of Thomas Jefferson provides the sole account of a legendary "dinner table bargain" that reduced opposition to this policy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the federal assumption of state debt [accept descriptions like the federal government paying states'debt; prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, Alexander Hamilton's financial policy]):
    Name or describe this policy that James Madison and Thomas Jefferson assented to in the Compromise of 1790 in exchange for the establishment of a federal capital within the District of Columbia.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    This Secretary of the Treasury under George Washington pushed for the federal assumption of state debt as part of an economic policy that included the charter of the First Bank of the United States.
  Part 3 (ans: Proclamation of Neutrality [or Neutrality Proclamation]):
    Hamilton and Madison later conducted the Pacificus-Helvidius debates over this policy. A later speech defended this policy by noting, "Our detached and distant situation invites and enables us to pursue a different course."

[B5] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Jeannette A. Bastian's Owning Memory argues that this colony "lost its archives" but compensated with oral histories about heroes like the 1878 "Fireburn" leader Queen Mary Thomas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Virgin Islands [accept U.S. Virgin Islands or United States Virgin Islands; accept Danish Virgin Islands or Danish Antilles or Danish West Indies or Dansk Vestindien; accept Saint Thomas or Sankt Thomas; accept Saint Croix or Sankt Croix; accept Saint John or Sankt Jan; prompt on West Indies or Vestindien; prompt on Lesser Antilles or Sma Antiller; prompt on Leeward Islands; do not accept or prompt on "British Virgin Islands"]):
    Name this colony where the Akwamu Akan led a 1733 revolt. This colony sold sugar and rum from Cinnamon Bay Estate, Estate Catherineberg near its capital, and Estate Little Princess near Christiansted.
  Part 2 (ans: Denmark Vesey [or Telemaque; accept Denmark Vesey: The Buried Story of America's Largest Slave Rebellion and the Man Who Led It]):
    David M. Robertson wrote about the "buried story" of this man, who was named for his likely birthplace on St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. Before his execution, this man planned an 1822 rising of Charleston's enslaved people.
  Part 3 (ans: Hamilton [accept Alexander Hamilton; accept James Hamilton Jr.; accept The Young Hamilton: A Biography]):
    A mayor of Charleston with this surname led the militia that arrested Denmark Vesey. Biographies by James T. Flexner and Ron Chernow explore the St. Croix youth of the first Treasury Secretary, who also had this surname.

[B6] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer some questions related to the greatest hits of the "scandalmongering" pamphleteer James Callender, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton (his name is Alexander Hamilton)):
    Callender's broadsides exposed this man's affair with Maria Reynolds. Though his reputation did not recover, this politician had already written his First Report on Public Credit and masterminded the First Bank of the U.S.
  Part 2 (ans: Chase [accept Samuel Chase or Salmon P. Chase]):
    Callender's pamphlet The Prospect Before Us led to a controversial sedition trial presided over by a judge of this surname, shared by a politician who issued the first "greenbacks" as Lincoln's treasury secretary.
  Part 3 (ans: William Safire [or William Lewis Safir] (his work at the trade fair was how he got the job of Nixon's speechwriter, incidentally)):
    Callender was the subject of a novel by this author of a famous Rupert Brooke-quoting speech to be given if the Apollo 11 astronauts got stranded on the moon. He photographed the "Kitchen Debate" while working as the trade fair's publicist.

[B7] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: In Helvering v. Davis, the Supreme Court held that the Social Security Act was constitutional under this clause. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: general welfare clause):
    Name this clause from Article I, Section 8 of the US Constitution which states that Congress may tax and spend for debts, common defense, and for this clause's namesake purpose.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    A broad interpretation of the general welfare clause was put forth by this Founding Father, who claimed that it granted Congress plenary power to spend. He was the first US Secretary of the Treasury.
  Part 3 (ans: Tenth Amendment):
    Opponents of the broad interpretation of the general welfare clause often cite this constitutional amendment, which concerns "powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution." The Helvering ruling held that Social Security did not violate this amendment.

[B8] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Patriot spy Hercules Mulligan, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    This man lived with Mulligan after arriving in New York City. He attended Columbia University and served as the first Secretary of the Treasury.
  Part 2 (ans: tearing down the equestrian statue of George III [accept equivalents for "tearing down" like toppling the statue; prompt on just tearing down a statue by asking "of whom?"]):
    Mulligan was part of the crowd that did this specific action in New York's Bowling Green Park after hearing the Declaration of Independence read. The target of this action was then melted down into bullets.
  Part 3 (ans: Cato):
    Mulligan's slave of this name helped Mulligan in his Culper Ring activities. An Anti-Federalist Paper author with this pseudonym was most likely George Clinton.

[B9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This essay defines its central concept as a group of citizens "united...by some common impulse," and argues that methods of "curing the mischief" of them include removing its causes and controlling its effects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Federalist Number 10 [or the Federalist Papers: No. Ten; or descriptive answers, such as the tenth Federalist Paper]):
    Name this essay, which argues that a large republic is the best way to lower the influence of factions.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Unlike the tenth Federalist paper, the first Federalist paper was written by this first Secretary of the Treasury, who was killed by Aaron Burr in a duel in Weehawken, New Jersey.
  Part 3 (ans: Coinage Act of 1792):
    The Mint, which is a subdivision of the Treasury Department, was created by this act, which also named David Rittenhouse as the Mint's first director.

[B10] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man was the father of the US Coast Guard, The New York Post and the Federalist Party. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Name this Caribbean-born Founding Father who served as Washington's aide-de-camp and the first Treasury Secretary before dying in a duel with Aaron Burr.
  Part 2 (ans: Maria Reynolds [accept Maria Lewis]):
    Hamilton was involved in the first major sex scandal in US history when his extramarital affair with this woman and the bribes paid to her husband became public knowledge.
  Part 3 (ans: James Callender):
    The Reynolds Affair was brought to light by this pamphleteer, who would also later expose Thomas Jefferson's affair with Sally Hemings.

[B11] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man was jailed under the Sedition Act after publishing the pamphlet The Prospect Before Us, and also wrote the almost certainly worthwhile "Deformities of Samuel Johnson." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Thomson Callender):
    Name this pamphleteer who remains best known for a series of articles alleging that Thomas Jefferson had a relationship with Sally Hemings.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Callender also reported on the relationship between Maria Reynolds and this first Secretary of the Treasury, who was killed in a duel by Aaron Burr.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Chase [prompt on partial answer; do not accept "Salmon P. Chase"]):
    The vociferous prosecution of men like Callender for sedition led to the downfall of this Marylander, the only Supreme Court Justice to be impeached.

[B12] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: While imprisoned under the Sedition Act for his pamphlet The Prospect Before Us, this man titled one of the chapters of a second volume "more sedition." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Callender):
    Name this pamphleteer who later turned on Thomas Jefferson by exposing his affair with Sally Hemings.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Callender also exposed this man's affair with Maria Reynolds. This author of the Report on Manufactures was the first Secretary of the Treasury.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Chase):
    This Supreme Court Justice presided over James Callender's trial. His politically slanted handling of it would provide fodder for his own impeachment in 1804.

[B13] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Despite his common origins, this man wanted the US to have a monarchist executive. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Name this first Secretary of the Treasury and author of the Report on Manufactures, who was killed in a duel with Vice President Aaron Burr.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Schuyler):
    This father-in-law of Hamilton was accused by Horatio Gates of dereliction of duty. He later served as a senator from New York in the United States Congress, and was defeated in 1791 by Aaron Burr.
  Part 3 (ans: Maria Reynolds):
    After accused of improper speculation, Hamilton told James Monroe about his affair with this woman to explain his questionable expenses. He later published a 95-page pamphlet admitting to and apologizing for the affair.

[B14] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: These documents typically include speeches given by Melancton Smith, as well as editorials appearing in the Philadelphia Independent Gazetteer arguing against a system of checks and balances. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antifederalist Papers [do not prompt on "Federalist Papers"]):
    Identify this set of documents, authored by men like Patrick Henry and some pseudonymous folks, believed to be men like George Clinton and Robert Yates.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    The Antifederalist Papers were written in response to the Federalist Papers, which were co-written by James Madison, John Jay, and this first Secretary of the Treasury. This man was born on the island of Nevis.
  Part 3 (ans: Bill of Rights [accept first 10 amendments to the Constitution or equivalents; prompt on "amendments"]):
    Perhaps one of the most famous individual Federalist Papers is Federalist 84, written by Hamilton. In Federalist 84, Hamilton argues against the need for these, later introduced by James Madison, decrying them as unnecessary exceptions to powers not explicitly granted by the Constitution.

[B15] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's namesake "folly" was a never-completed mansion designed by Pierre L'Enfant in Philadelphia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Morris [do not accept "Gouverneur Morris"]):
    Name this Superintendent of Finance from 1781 to 1784. He was called the "Financier of the Revolution" for his loans of money to pay Continental troops.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Morris was suggested to be the inaugural Secretary of the Treasury, but he turned it down and suggested this man, a leading Federalist, who got the job.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dickinson):
    During the voting on the Declaration of Independence, Morris and this other Pennsylvania delegate abstained. This man wrote the Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania.

[B16] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The revelation of David Petraeus's affair got some Americans to remember the first sex scandal in US history. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    The affair involved an illicit romance between Maria Reynolds and this man, known for his 1790 compromise with Madison and Jefferson that resulted in the placement of the capital in Washington, D.C., and for writing on the national debt. He was also Secretary of the Treasury for Washington.
  Part 2 (ans: James Callender):
    The Reynolds Affair was revealed to the public by this journalist. He was initially a favorite of Republican politicians until he revealed the Sally Hemings affair of Jefferson, after which he was hated by both parties.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Morin Freneau):
    Even before the Reynolds Affair, Hamilton was a frequent target in the National Gazette, a paper owned and edited by this early American author who savaged early Federalists.

[B17] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man resigned from his highest office after his affair with Maria Reynolds was revealed, and along with James Madison and John Jay, he adopted the moniker Publius to write some important papers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Name this first Treasury Secretary of the United Sates who was shot to death in a duel with Aaron Burr.
  Part 2 (ans: Federalist Party/ Funding at Par):
    Alexander Hamilton was a leader of this early political party, which opposed the Democratic Republicans. This party's platform included the creation of a national bank and maintaining good relations with Britain.
  Part 3 (ans: funding at par):
    Hamilton's scheme to bolster the nation's credit was given this name. It involved taking in old bonds and issuing new ones that match the face value of the old bonds.

[B18] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Name these owners and editors of the New York Evening Post, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    The newspaper was founded by this author of the Report on Manufactures and national debt advocate.
  Part 2 (ans: William Cullen Bryant):
    This man was editing the Evening Post when he attempted to whip rival editor William Stone in the street in 1831. He also wrote the poem "The Embargo."
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Schurz):
    This ambassador to Spain during the Civil War was a leader of the Mugwumps, a virtuous Interior Secretary under Hayes, and the first German-born person elected to the U.S. Senate. He edited the Evening Post during the Arthur administration.

[B19] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Name these Federalists, FTPE.
  Part 1 (ans: Philip John Schuyler):
    This commander of the Northern Department placed Richard Montgomery in charge of the 1775 Canadian invasion, but was himself replaced by Gates before the Battle of Saratoga. He was one of New York's first senators, and his son-in-law was George Washington's aide-de-camp in the Revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Hamilton):
    Schuyler was the father-in-law of this more prominent Federalist, who had an affair with Maria Reynolds and authored the Report on Manufactures.
  Part 3 (ans: Noah Webster):
    This founder of the American Minerva authored the 1785 pamphlet Sketches of American Policy, which was apocryphally taken on a trip to Mount Vernon.
