=== STOCK CLUES: Ming Dynasty ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 65 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ming dynasty
  - The final emperor of this dynasty demoted his brother's wet nurse to the Laundry Department, where she was beaten and killed.
  - Liu Jin  led the Eight Tigers during this dynasty.
  - During this dynasty, Madame Ke  rose to power with her associate Wei Zhongxian , who was targeted by this dynasty's Embroidered Uniform Guard secret police.
  - The founder of this dynasty wrote a tablet warning against using eunuchs after coming to power after the Battle of Lake Poyang.
  - This dynasty's Hongxi  emperor ended a series of expeditions that brought a giraffe back from Malindi, which were first chartered by this dynasty's Yongle  emperor.
  - The voyages of Zheng He  occurred during, for 10 points, which dynasty that overthrew the Yuan? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ming dynasty
  - An emperor of this dynasty responded to an alleged plot by chancellor Hu Weiyong to overthrow him by ordering tens of thousands of executions and abolishing the position of chancellor. [PWR]
  - After the death of his oldest son, this dynasty's founder sent most of his sons to administer frontier regions to clear the way for his grandson, the Jianwen  Emperor, to succeed him. [PWR]
  - After the exile of several of his brothers, a prince of this dynasty launched the (*) Jingnan Campaign to overthrow Jianwen. [PWR]
  - This dynasty's third ruler moved his capital from Nanjing to Beijing and sponsored the construction of the Forbidden City.
  - That emperor from this dynasty also sponsored massive treasure voyages led by his admiral Zheng He .
  - For 10 points, name this dynasty of the Hongwu and Yongle Emperors, which overthrew the Mongol Yuan dynasty. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Ming dynasty
  - The philosopher Huang Zongxi  decried the influence of eunuchs  on this dynasty's government, noting that "Everyone has known for thousands of years that eunuchs are like poison and wild beasts." The "Eight Tigers" was a group of eunuchs in this dynasty that was led by Liu Jin  and dominated the court of the Zhengde  Emperor.
  - The reign of the Tianqi  Emperor during this dynasty was dominated by a man who crushed the reformist Donglin faction and is considered the most powerful eunuch in Chinese history, Wei Zhongxian .
  - The failures of the eunuch Wang Jen  during a military expedition launched by this dynasty led the (*) Oirats to capture this dynasty's Zhengtong  Emperor during the Tumu Crisis.
  - A eunuch who lived during this dynasty executed the pirate Chen Zuyi  and brought a giraffe back from his voyage to Malindi.
  - For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty during which Zheng He  led several treasure voyages to the Indian ocean. [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Ming Dynasty AND Ashikaga Shogunate [accept Muromachi]
  - Two answers required. [PWR]
  - Neither of your answers should just be the name of a modern-day country.Shipments were certified as official tributes in the "tally trade" system between these two governments, which often exchanged silver for silk. [PWR]
  - The first isolationist haijin laws were passed by one of these dynasties primarily to deal with insurgents from the country of the other. [PWR]
  - After the sixth leader of one of these dynasties was assassinated by a disgruntled vassal, the resulting confusion led to an incident in which two rival trading clans trashed the other dynasty's port in the (*) Ningbo Incident. [PWR]
  - Yoshimitsu, the leader of one of these dynasties, sent letters to the leader of the other secretly referring to himself as "your subject" to foster trade.
  - Neither of them were based in Korea, but the wokou pirates based in the ports of one of these dynasties would frequently raid the ports of the other.
  - For 10 points, name these two governments that respectively ruled China and Japan in the 14th and 15th centuries. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: China and Japan [accept Tang Dynasty, Ming Dynasty, Qing Dynasty in place of China, Yamato, Tokugawa Shogunate, Ashikaga Shogunate in place of Japan]
  - NOTE TO PLAYER: Two answers required. [PWR]
  - The "tally trade" was conducted between these two modern-day countries. [PWR]
  - High quality "soma silver" was exported from one of these countries primarily to the other. [PWR]
  - These two modern day countries' navies clashed during a proxy war between them at the Battle of Baekgang River. [PWR]
  - A guest house at the port of Hakata was built to receive visitors from the imperial court of one of these countries to the other. [PWR]
  - The (*) Ryukyu Kingdom was a "dual tributary" to both of these two countries after the 17th century.
  - One of these countries evacuated its coasts due to attacks from wokou pirates that it believed originated from the other of these countries.
  - These two countries supported the kingdoms of Silla and Baekje during the Three Kingdoms Period.
  - One of these countries defeated the other in a 1894-1895 war and subsequently annexed Manchuria from the other.
  - For 10 points, name these two countries, who were strategic rivals during their Meiji Restoration and Qing Dynasty periods. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Guerrilla History (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Ming Dynasty
  - The Jixiao xinshu describes a multi-tipped spear called a "wolf brush", created for use in a "mandarin duck formation" during this dynasty.
  - The Tunbao ethnic group arose from this dynasty's invasion of Yunnan.
  - This dynasty's disinterest in its navy allowed for a surge in activity among the (*) wokou.
  - In perhaps the largest naval battle in history, the founder of this dynasty defeated Chen Youliang at the Battle of Lake Poyang, gaining control of the Yangtze River.
  - For 10 points, identify this dynasty whose founding Hongwu Emperor came to power after conquering the Yuan Dynasty. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Ashikaga clan [prompt on the Seiwa Genji or the Minamoto clan, which the Ashikaga are technically a branch of; if someone gives the Ming Dynasty/Zhu family, prompt with "who conducted the tally trade with what Japanese regime?"] (the clan mentioned in the second sentence is the Ouchi; the answer to the riddle in the first clue is "it's already in the gourd," which is apparently a pun on words for "gourd" and "universe")
  - A member of this family often assembled his entire court simply to ask a riddle about catching a catfish in a gourd. [PWR]
  - Thomas Conlan argues that political chaos after this family's decline did not actually start until the fall of a clan that dominated the "tally trade" begun under this family. [PWR]
  - This family, which often used yugen or "mystery" as a governing ethos, created a "half-tax" that let shugo  keep half an area's tax revenue.
  - Later nationalists vilified a member of this family for taking the title of (*) "king" for trade purposes. [PWR]
  - That member of thisfamily built the "Flower Palace" and was Zeami  Motokiyo's lover and patron.
  - This family seized power by ending the Kenmu Restoration, but thus began the "Northern and Southern Courts" period.
  - Both Kinkaku-ji  and Ginkaku-ji  were built by this family, whose rule foundered in the Onin War.
  - For 10 points, name this family, whose shogunate was founded by Takauji  and whose decline triggered the Sengoku era. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Ming dynasty
  - This dynasty once paid a mercenary army for each disembodied head, after which the mercenaries proceeded to massacre a bunch of this dynasty's subjects to collect the bounty. [PWR]
  - That incident is recounted in Frederick Wakeman's history of the transition of this dynasty to its successor, titled The Great Enterprise. [PWR]
  - This dynasty is postulated to have "discovered the world" by the pseudohistorian Gavin Menzies.
  - Most silver mined in the Americas ultimately went to purchase (*) goods from this dynasty, such as from its official kilns at Jingdezhen . [PWR]
  - Its Yongle  emperor supervised the creation of historical texts from a palace complex built under it, the Forbidden City.
  - The eunuch  Zheng He  sailed the seas on behalf of, for 10 points, what dynasty whose official history was written under its successors, the Qing ? [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 WORLDSTAR (2018) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: The Ming Dynasty
  - A nutcase named Zhang Chai beat up a crown prince of this dynasty after infiltrating the palace armed only with a stick. [PWR]
  - That prince of this dynasty lasted a month as emperor before dropping dead after taking two dubious red pills. [PWR]
  - The Donglin Academy faction protested alleged moral decline in this dynasty until brutally suppressed by the eunuch Wei Zhongxian, who took advantage of an illiterate emperor from this dynasty's obsession with carpentry to gain power. [PWR]
  - (*) The refusal of this dynasty's "Daoist Emperor" to be adopted by his predecessor inflamed the "Great Rites Controversy," and this dynasty's last emperor severed his daughter's arm in an attempt to deny spoils to a rebel known as the "Dashing Prince." The peasant rebel Li Zicheng deposed this dynasty's Chongzhen Emperor.
  - For 10 points, name this dynasty, founded by the Hongwu Emperor Zhu Yuanzhang. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ming Dynasty
  - A general for this dynasty annihilated enemy forces at the Battle of Buyur Nor but failed to capture Togus Temur.
  - It saw the first development of the an hua technique at such places as Jingdezhen.
  - By letting enemy forces go around the Great Wall, the general Wu Sangui betrayed this dynasty.
  - The founder of this dynasty defeated a navy under the rival leader Chen Youliang at the Battle of Lake Poyang.
  - This dynasty fell after the rebel Li Zicheng sacked its capital, which led Emperor Chongzhen to commit suicide.
  - The first ruler of this dynasty, the Hongwu Emperor, took power during the collapse of the preceding Yuan dynasty.
  - For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty succeeded in the seventeenth century by the Qing dynasty and famous for its innovations in ceramics. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this event, the eunuch Wang Zhen ("jun") may have been killed by his own officers after leading his army to a river. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tumu Crisis [or Crisis of the Tumu Fortress]):
    Name this 15th-century crisis in which Emperor Yingzong was captured by Esen Taishi and Taisun Khan, after which he was succeeded by the Jingtai Emperor.
  Part 2 (ans: Nanjing [or Nanking]):
    Yingzong was caught off guard during the Tumu Crisis due to intense flooding in a province governed from this city. This city in Jiangsu was made capital by Hongwu before the Yongle Emperor moved it to Beijing.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming dynasty):
    The Tumu Crisis of 1449 targeted Yingzong of this Chinese dynasty, which was founded by Hongwu after the defeat of the Yuan dynasty.

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A commission to raise tax revenue from this good was created following the An Lushan Rebellion due to widespread losses in agricultural taxes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: salt [accept yan, NaCl, sodium chloride, or specific types of salt like "sea salt"]):
    Name this good that, along with iron, was the subject of Discourses over whether the government should pursue laissez-faire policies or maintain a monopoly, which persisted into the 20th century.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming dynasty):
    Households producing salt were exempt from additional labor under this dynasty, which overthrew the Mongolian Yuan dynasty in 1368.
  Part 3 (ans: Yangzhou):
    During the Ming dynasty, this city along the Grand Canal became a major center of salt trade. The salt commission in this city may have hired Marco Polo, who described the building of Nestorian churches there.

[B3] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Under this emperor, the eunuch Wang Zhen ("jun") may have been killed by his own officers after leading his army to a river, only for every high-ranking general to be killed by enemy forces. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Emperor Yingzong [or Zhu Qizhen; or Zhengtong Emperor; or Tianshun Emperor]):
    Name this emperor who was captured by Esen Taishi and Taisun Khan during the Tumu Crisis, after which he was succeeded by his brother, the Jingtai Emperor.
  Part 2 (ans: Nanjing [or Nanking]):
    Yingzong was caught off guard during the Tumu Crisis due to intense flooding in a province governed from this city. This southern city was made capital by Hongwu before the Yongle Emperor moved it to Beijing.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming dynasty):
    The Tumu Crisis of 1449 targeted Yingzong of this Chinese dynasty, which was founded by Hongwu after the defeat of the Yuan dynasty.

[B4] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Douglas Streusand emphasized policy, rather than the influence of this commodity, in a counterexample to one hypothesis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gunpowder [or black powder; accept gunpowder empires; prompt on powder]):
    Name this commodity that, in a theory developed by Marshall Hodgson and William H. McNeill, enabled the centralization of central Asian empires like the Ottoman and Safavid.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming Dynasty):
    While it is not considered a gunpowder empire, this dynasty found many different uses for it, like the paper-plane-like "divine crow" as detailed in the Huolongjing. The introduction of muskets was inadequate to prevent this dynasty from being conquered by the Manchu Qing Dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Maurice of Nassau [or Maurice, Prince of Nassau; or Maurice of Orange; or Maurice, Prince of Orange; or Maurits van Oranje; accept Maurits in place of "Maurice"; prompt on Maurice or Maurits]):
    McNeill cited the military reforms of this person as those of a European gunpowder empire. This victor at the Battle of Nieuwpoort ("NEW-port") may have organized the execution of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt during the Twelve Years' Truce.

[B5] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At 600 pages in Gladys Yang's translation, this novel is the shortest of the six novels canonized for Western audiences by C. T. Hsia ("shah"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Scholars [or Rulin Waishi; accept Unofficial History of the Forest of Scholars]):
    Name this novel by Wu Jingzi that mocks single-minded takers of the Civil Service Exam.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming Dynasty [or Da Ming]):
    Though written in a later dynasty, The Scholars is set during this Chinese dynasty. Journey to the West and Romance of the Three Kingdoms were written during the rule of this dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh or All Men Are Brothers or Shui Hu Zhuan]):
    In The Scholars, this novel's opening is parodied when Wang Mien watches stars of the "Scholars" constellation fall to earth. This Ming-dynasty novel follows a group of 108 bandits called the Stars of Destiny.

[B6] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This state's rulers were not allowed to read its painstakingly detailed "veritable records," which were supplemented by "inner palace registries" that covered court women's lives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseon ("JO-sun") [or Great Joseon State; or Choson; or Cosen; prompt on Korea]):
    Name this state whose female uinyeo ("ween-yuh") doctors inspired the popular 2000s show Dae Jang-geum. A "great" ruler of this state commissioned a new writing system from the Hall of Worthies.
  Part 2 (ans: Crown Prince Sado [or Sado Seja; or Sato; or Yi Seon]):
    The memoirs of the Joseon princess Lady Hyegyeong ("heh-gyung") are a primary source on the deteriorating mental state of this man. This vestiphobe's murderous habits got him executed by starvation in a rice chest in 1762.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming Empire [or Ming dynasty; or Myeongnala; prompt on China]):
    Another work of "palace literature" covers Queen Inmok's confinement under Gwanghae, who was deposed for "betraying" this state. King Injo supposedly killed his son out of loyalty to this state, which was the subject of the sadae ("sa-deh") foreign policy.

[B7] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Some scholars have divided this system into three stages, noting the stability provided in the first stage by the constraints of a related silver-based system. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the use of paper money by the Yuan dynasty [accept clear equivalents; accept answers that refer to paper currency or jiaochao or Zhongtong notes or Zhiyuan notes in place of "paper money"; accept answers with Great Yuan or Da Yuan or Dai On ulus or Yekhe Yuan Ulus or Ikh Yuan Uls in place of "Yuan dynasty"; prompt on less specific answers referring only to the use of paper money (in China) by asking "by what dynasty?"; prompt on nonspecific answers mentioning the monetary system or currency of the Yuan or inflation or similar]):
    Describe this system. Hanhui Guan and Jie Mao argued that it was primarily driven by "fiscal pressure from multiple-province rebellions", downplaying the role of imperial largesse in over-issuances.
  Part 2 (ans: Red Turban rebellions [or Hongjin Qiyi; accept answers with synonyms for "rebellion"]):
    Amidst widespread instability and collapse of the monetary system, the Yuan ("ywen") dynasty was overthrown by these rebellions, an offshoot of the White Lotus movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming dynasty [or Great Ming or Da Ming]):
    Following the Yuan's collapse, hyperinflation continued under this dynasty, which gradually replaced a new "precious note" with silver.

[B8] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This method of burial may be effective due to its high acidity, hydrogen peroxide, and low water activity causing osmosis out of a body. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: being mellified or embalmed with honey [prompt on being embalmed]):
    Name this method of burial, which was done in a lost tomb possibly found in Siwa in 2021.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon]):
    This ruler, who was tutored by Aristotle and owned the horse Bucephalus, was supposedly buried in a honey-filled sarcophagus.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming dynasty [or Ming Chao] (The referenced man is Zheng He).):
    Mellification of corpses was first described as an "Arabic custom" in Li Shizen's Bencao Gangmu, a Chinese materia medica written during this dynasty. During this dynasty, an admiral sent sailors to Mecca and retrieved a giraffe from Malindi.

[B9] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This explorer navigated using a strip map collected in a military treatise with a 24-point compass. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zheng He ("jung huh") [or Ma He; accept Cheng-ho; prompt on Zheng]):
    Name this explorer who legendarily brought back a giraffe from Malindi.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming dynasty [or Ming China; accept Great Ming; accept the Ming treasure voyages]):
    Zheng He used the Mao Kun map on his seven "treasure voyages" for this Chinese dynasty, which was succeeded by the Qing dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Matteo Ricci [or Matthaeus Riccius]):
    The Wan li Emperor of the Ming dynasty commissioned two of this man's companions to create a world atlas called the Zhifang Waiji ("jurr-fong why-jee"). This man created a Chinese map referred to as an "impossible black tulip."

[B10] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This city is partly named for a protective Buddha statue brought here around 1360 by founding monarch Fa Ngum ("fah ung-oom"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Luang Prabang ("loo-ong PRAH-bong") [or Louangphrabang; accept Mwang Sua or Muang Xieng Thong] (The statue is the Phra Bang, or "Delicate Buddha.")):
    Name this capital of the Lan Xang ("lan shang") kingdom. Though it's not a capital city today, it was a royal court town until Communists abolished the monarchy at the end of Laos's Secret War.
  Part 2 (ans: elephants [accept Asian elephants, or Elephas maximus; reject "African elephant" or "Loxodonta"]):
    "Lan Xang" translates to "Land of a Million" of these animals, which are trained by mahouts ("muh-HOUTZ").
  Part 3 (ans: 1640s CE [accept any answer indicating a ten-year time span with the year 1641 in it] (The Ming dynasty ended with the Chongzhen emperor's abdication in 1644.)):
    The great king Souligna Vongsa ("soo-lee-nyah vong-sah") welcomed the first European traders to Lan Xang in this Gregorian decade. Elsewhere in Asia, the Chongzhen ("chong-zhen") emperor abdicated during this decade.

[B11] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about famous trials in Chinese history, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ming dynasty [or Great Ming or Da Ming]):
    This dynasty's "Four Great Trials" include the case of Lan Yu ("lawn yoo"), who was plotting to overthrow its founder, the Hongwu ("hung-oo") emperor. This dynasty's other rulers included the Yongle ("yong-luh") emperor.
  Part 2 (ans: Qianlong ("ch'yen-long") emperor [or Hongli]):
    This emperor instigated a series of trials prosecuting queue-cutters during the Sorcery Scare of 1768. This Qing emperor abdicated in 1796 so that his reign would be shorter than that of his grandfather Kangxi ("kang-shee").
  Part 3 (ans: Su Shi [or Zizhan or Dongpo]):
    At the Crow Terrace Trial, this scholar was sentenced to exile for writing poems criticizing the "New Policies" in one of the earliest free speech trials in Chinese history.

[B12] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This was the [emphasize] ultimate large-scale political goal of Koxinga ("koh-SHING-ah"), who established his Tungning kingdom as a base of operations for pirates and rebels who aimed to carry it out. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: restoration of the Ming dynasty [accept answers which indicate returning the Ming to power; prompt on any answer involving anti-Qing sentiment or expelling Manchus; reject "conquering China"]):
    Give this primary stated political goal of the activities of the White Lotus sect and the earlier Revolt of the Three Feudatories led by Wu Sangui ("sahn-gway"). A description is fine.
  Part 2 (ans: Tiandihui ("t'yen-dee-hway") [or Heaven and Earth Society, or Tin Dei Wui, or Hongmen, or Hung Mun; prompt on Sanhehui, or Saam Hap Wui, or Three Harmonies Society; prompt on Vast Family; prompt on Chinese Freemasons but reject "Masons"; reject "triads" or "Harmonious Fists"]):
    Among the largest pro-Ming restoration groups was this secret society originating in Fujian, whose members worshipped Guan Yu. Historically, this society has been particularly prominent in Taiwan, where its members were killed during the Lin Shuangwen rebellion and continue to have influence within the KMT.
  Part 3 (ans: triads):
    A subgroup of the Tiandihui, the "Three Harmonies Societies," is the origin of the common English name of these Chinese gangs, which still organize much criminal activity in Hong Kong today.

[B13] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following questions about cloisonne ("klwah-zuh-NAY"), the technique of creating designs by placing enamel into spaces formed with metal wire to imitate jewels, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: reliquary [or reliquaries]):
    Byzantine cloisonne was used to decorate panels like those on the Limburg Staurotheke, one of these objects housing pieces of the True Cross. "Speaking Image" examples of these objects were shaped like human body parts.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming Dynasty [or Ming chao]):
    Cloisonne spread east from the Byzantines and was used under this dynasty's Xuande ("SHWEN-duh") Emperor. Reign marks were first applied to cloisonne wares and hallmark blue-and-white porcelain during this Chinese dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Russia [do not accept or prompt on "Soviet Union" or "USSR"]):
    Byzantine cloisonne also influenced early enamel works of this country, where jewelers later applied enamel on objects for the royal family that were decorated with themes like lilies-of-the-valley and contained "surprises."

[B14] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Wu Sangui took part in a revolt named for this number of "feudatories" after opening the gates of the Great Wall at Shanhaiguaan for the army he was revolting against. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: three [accept Three Kingdoms; accept Sanguo or Sanfan zhi luan]):
    Give this number, which also names an era of Chinese history that was ended by Sima Yi's founding of the Jin Dynasty.
  Part 2 (ans: Koxinga [or Zheng Chenggong]):
    During the Revolt of the Three Feudatories, Wu Sangui was allegedly aided by forces from the Kingdom of Tungning, which was founded by this man. This man broke Dutch control of Taiwan at the Siege of Fort Zeelandia.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming Dynasty):
    Both Wu Sangui and Koxinga served this dynasty, which faced a rebellion by Li Zicheng during its collapse in the mid-seventeenth century.

[B15] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about encyclopedias in world history, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ming dynasty [or Mingchao; or Great Ming or Daming]):
    A massive encyclopedia was commissioned by this Chinese dynasty's emperor Yongle. Li Zicheng, who overthrew this dynasty and laid the groundwork for the rise of the Qeng, may have torched the original copy when retreating from Beijing.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Dudley, 1st Earl of Leicester [accept either]):
    The Dell'Arcano del Mare, which popularized the Mercator projection, is a maritime encyclopedia by this man's son and namesake. This patron of English Puritanism and favorite of Elizabeth I may have been prevented from marrying her by scandalous rumors about his first wife's death from falling down some stairs.
  Part 3 (ans: Katip Celebi [or Haji Khalifa; or Mustafa ibn 'Abd Allah]):
    The Kasf az-Zunun is an extensive bibliographic encyclopedia by this Ottoman polymath, whose Jihannuma brought European atlases into the Islamic world. He is known by a sobriquet meaning "learned scribe."

[B16] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Inhabitants of villages near Sanjiang ("san-jyong") in modern-day Zhejiang ("juh-jyong") Province were forbidden from stepping on dry land for supporting the loser of this battle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Lake Poyang):
    Name this large naval battle in 1363 during the Red Turban Rebellion. The future Hongwu Emperor defeated the forces of Chen Youliang ("chun yo-lyong") in this battle.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming Dynasty):
    The Hongwu Emperor was the first emperor of this dynasty, whose Yongle ("yong-luh") Emperor sent the naval expeditions of Zheng He ("jung huh").
  Part 3 (ans: Zhu ("joo") [accept Zhu De]):
    The emperors of the Ming Dynasty, including its founder Yuanzhang ("y'wen-jong"), had this familial name. A later general with this family name was the first commander-in-chief of the People's Liberation Army.

[B17] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The Yongle Emperor overthrew this man's chosen successor, the Jianwen Emperor, after only three years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hongwu Emperor [or Zhu Yuanzhang]):
    Name this leader of the Red Turbans who won the largest naval battle in history, the Battle of Lake Poyang, to become founder of the last ethnically Han Chinese dynasty.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming dynasty [or Ming chao]):
    The Hongwu emperor founded this dynasty famous for its porcelain which was followed by the Qing Dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Nanjing [or Nanking]):
    The Hongwu Emperor established this city as the Ming capital, though it was moved to Beijing by Yongle. Iris Chang wrote a notable book about this Chinese city which was also the capital of the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom.

[B18] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Indigenous people in this modern-day country were designated "raw barbarians." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taiwan [or Republic of China; or Zhonghua Minguo; but not "China" or "People's Republic of China" or "Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo"]):
    Name this modern-day country, whose aboriginal peoples were subjected to the Lamey Island Massacre by Dutch colonists. This modern-day country was the base for the pirate Koxinga [co-SHEEN-guh].
  Part 2 (ans: Ming dynasty):
    The Qing were mainly interested in crushing Koxinga because he, and a bunch of other Chinese who fled to Taiwan, supported the restoration of this dynasty which preceded the Qing and is known for its ceramics.
  Part 3 (ans: Treaty of Shimonoseki):
    Qing dynasty claims on Taiwan were lost to Japan, along with the Liaodong Peninsula, in this 1885 treaty, which ended the first Sino-Japanese war.

[B19] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: The backdrop of this novel is the battle between King Zhou of Shang and King Wu of Zhou. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Investiture of the Gods [or Fengshen Yanyi; or Fengshen Bang; or Creation of the Gods; or The Apotheosis of Heroes; or The Canonization of the Gods]):
    Name this novel in which Bi Gan presents his heart as an offering to the emperor, but doesn't die until a vendor of cabbages remarks that the vegetable can't exist without its stem. This book's title refers to a power of Jiang Ziya to deify those fallen in the conflict.
  Part 2 (ans: Nuwa):
    King Zhou of Shang seals his fate when he glimpses this beautiful character and writes her a love poem. When she sees how obscene the poem is, she sends three spirits to curse him, including the vixen spirit Daji.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming Dynasty):
    Investiture of the Gods was written during the rule of this Chinese Dynasty. It was when Wu Cheng'en wrote Journey to the West.

[B20] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The deadliest earthquake in world history occurred under this dynasty's rule. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ming dynasty):
    Name this dynasty that suffered a series of devastating famines due to the effects of the Little Ice Age, as well as floods, plagues, and other calamities that enabled opportunists like Li Zicheng and Wu Sangui to seize power.
  Part 2 (ans: peasants [or farmers; or nongfu]):
    Li Zicheng's armies consisted primarily of these people, whose frequent rebellions against imperial Chinese authority tended to coincide with massive crop failures.
  Part 3 (ans: Sichuan):
    Zhang Xianzhong, known as the Yellow Tiger, ruled this region immediately after the fall of the Ming dynasty. It's unclear to what extent the many massacres he ordered contributed to its rapid depopulation during that time.

[B21] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: These people are usually depicted as a bunch of Japanese pirates and their activity did increase during the Sengoku period, but they were from a diversity of East Asian backgrounds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: wokou [or wako; or waegu]):
    Give this term, meaning "dwarf bandits," collections of East Asian raiders who ravaged the Chinese coast in the 15th and 16th centuries. The Joseon targeted these people with the Gihae Eastern Expedition.
  Part 2 (ans: Guangzhou [or Canton; or Kwangchow; do NOT accept "Quanzhou"]):
    Wokou raids ranged as far south as this large non-European city on the Pearl River, where the later pirate Zheng Yi Sao ran a brothel after retiring. Arab and Persian pirates ransacked this city in an 878 massacre here.
  Part 3 (ans: Ming dynasty [or Empire of the Great Ming; or Da Ming Di Guo]):
    This Chinese dynasty was the first one that had to deal with mass wokou raids. Its other anti-pirate activities include sending Zheng He to crush pirates in Southeast Asia during his voyages.

[B22] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This dynasty was brought to an end by the rebellion of Li Zicheng and the subsequent invasion of the Manchus, who established the Qing dynasty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ming dynasty):
    Name this dynasty founded by Zhu Yuanzhang, whose Yongle emperor send Zheng He on a number of voyages throughout the Indian Ocean. It was noted for its porcelain production.
  Part 2 (ans: Oirats):
    This group of Mongols captured the Zhengtong emperor of Ming during the Tumu Crisis. This tribe's historical confederation was composed of four tribes.
  Part 3 (ans: Wang [or Wang Zhen; or Wang Mang]):
    A Ming dynasty eunuch with this surname was responsible for the disastrous campaign that resulted in the Tumu Crisis. A different man with this surname was targeted by the Red Eyebrows rebellion.

[B23] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In 1644, the Manchus held sacrifices here to usher in the reign of the Shunzhi Emperor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Temple of Heaven [or Altar of Heaven; or Tiantan]):
    Name this temple complex in Beijing, centered on the circular hall with three blue gabled roofs. Emperors would perform annual sacrifices on a three-tiered marble platform here called the Circular Mound Altar.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming dynasty):
    The Temple of Heaven was constructed by this dynasty's Yongle Emperor. This dynasty was defeated by the Manchus.
  Part 3 (ans: tombs [or ling; or mausoleums; or other words that mean tomb]):
    The Ming also built thirteen of these buildings in a valley northwest of Beijing. These buildings were entered through "spirit ways" lined by statues of creatures like the bixi tortoise. They were desecrated during the Cultural Revolution.

[B24] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: In this play, a hunchbacked gardener's back is straightened out in his excitement over the news of the male protagonist's high exam score shortly after the female protagonist obtains documents securing her release from hell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Peony Pavilion [or Mudan ting]):
    Name this most prominent of its author's Four Dreams, a twenty-hour play about a student who is arrested as a grave robber after discovering the beautiful portrait of a governor's daughter who is later resurrected in her garden.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming Dynasty [or Ming Chao; or Empire of the Great Ming]):
    The Peony Pavilion was written during this Chinese dynasty. Other works of literature written during this dynasty include Pingyao Zhuan, Romance of the Three Kingdoms and the Yongle Encyclopedia.
  Part 3 (ans: Sha Wujing [or Monk Sha; or Sha Seng; accept Friar Sand; accept Sandy; accept Sha Gojo; accept Sa Oh Jeong; accept Sa Ngo Tinh; accept Sa Tang; accept Sua Cheng]):
    In the Ming novel Journey to the West, this character wears a necklace of human skulls. This weak follower of Xuanzang was a general in heaven until he broke Xi Wang Mu's vase and was reincarnated as a river demon.

[B25] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about porcelain, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ming Dynasty):
    The large Jingdezhen factory developed porcelain in the duocai and wucai styles during this dynasty, which lasted from 1368 until 1644.
  Part 2 (ans: Josiah Wedgewood):
    This Englishman and abolitionist partnered with Thomas Whieldon to create various forms of pottery before forming his own venture, where he employed John Flaxman in creating jasperware.
  Part 3 (ans: Augustus the Strong [or Frederick Augustus I or Augustus II or Augustus the Iron-Hand or Augustus the Saxon Hercules]):
    Among the earliest European makers of porcelain was Johann Friedrich Bottger, who was forced to producing porcelain for this monarch. This king was forced to abdicate the throne of one nation by the Treaty of Altranstadt.
