=== STOCK CLUES: Karel Capek ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 36 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Capek ("CHAH-peck") [accept Karel Capek; accept Josef Capek]
  - Two authors with this surname wrote a play in which a tramp meets Iris and Felix, who are butterflies.
  - An author with this surname wrote a novel that ends with a metafictional conversation between the Author and the Writer imagining a war against the Lemurians.
  - That novel uses Mr.
  - Povondra's newspaper clippings in the central chapter, which is titled "Up the Ladder of Civilization." Two authors with this surname collaborated on the play From Insect Life.
  - A novel by an author with this surname discusses a species discovered on the island of Tana Masa by Captain Van Toch.
  - An author with this surname wrote about Harry Domin and Helena Glory, who represents the League of Humanity, in a play that popularized a word coined by his brother Josef.
  - For 10 points, an author with what surname wrote War with the Newts and the play R.U.R.? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Karel Capek (CHAH-pek) [The first play is Matka.]
  - The protagonist of a play by this author works for Sigelius at the Lilienthal Clinic and is killed by a crowd shouting, "We want war!" In another play by this author, a woman who uses pseudonyms with the initials "E.
  - M." proves pivotal to the case Gregor v.
  - Prus.
  - Galen fails to save the Marshal from the "white disease" in another play by this author.
  - This author created a representative from the Humanity League who burns a secret formula in one play, and wrote about an immortality-granting potion in The Makropulos Secret.
  - In this author's most famous play, Alquist calls Primus and Helena the new Adam and Eve.
  - In that play by this author, Harry Domin manages a company that creates the title artificial people, who stage a revolt against humankind.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech playwright of R.U.R. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Karel Capek
  - In a novel by this author, Abe Loeb and Sweetiepie Li visit a lagoon on their yacht, the Gloria Pickford.
  - He satirized Nazi Germany in a play in which Dr.
  - Galen cures a disease which only affects people over 45.
  - In one of his novels, the creation of a revolutionary form of energy has the unintended side effect of producing a spiritual substance called the "absolute." This author of The White Disease wrote a novel in which G.
  - H.
  - Bondy exploits the title animals, which are discovered by Captain van Toch.
  - In his most famous play, Helena meets with Fabry and Dr.
  - Gall as a representative of the League of Humanity and advocates freeing the title beings, who eventually rise up and kill all the humans except Alquist.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author who wrote War with the Newts and coined the word "robot" in his play R.U.R. [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Karel Capek [pronounced "cha-pek," but be really lenient.]
  - In one of his stories, a clerk is marginalized from society when his friends learn that he owns a 7-headed hydra. [PWR]
  - He included "The Bank Clerk's Tale" in his collection Nine Fair Tales: And One More Thrown in For Good Measure.
  - One of this author's characters is spared from death because of his hands and later tells Damon and Radius that he can't make the secret of life in a test tube.
  - In one of his plays, the longstanding court case of Gregor v Prus is manipulated by (*) Emila Marty, an opera singer who is 300 years old. [PWR]
  - This author of The Makropulos Case wrote a play in which Alquist's creations destroy humanity, including Harry Domin and Dr.
  - Gall.
  - For 10 points, name this author who introduced the word "robot" in his play R.U.R. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Karel Capek
  - In one play by this author, the Marshal in charge of the unnamed setting doesn't care that people over the age of forty-five are dying to the title ailment, because the youthful members of the military are unaffected. [PWR]
  - In another play, this author wrote of a technological advance that allowed humans to annihilate matter to generate energy, but the (*)byproduct causes world wide strife. [PWR]
  - This author of The White Disease and The Absolute at Large created the Captain von Toch who discovers the title creatures of another work near Sumatra before those creatures exploited by humans.
  - In his most famous work, this author created Harry Domain, the manager of the title company that produces automata.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of War with the Newts and R.U.R. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this surname designed the cover of the first edition of a play whose ending lines may have been suppressed in a translation by Paul Selver due to their Biblical references. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Capek("CHAH-pek") [accept Karel Capek or Josef Capek]):
    Give this surname of brothers who collaborated on Adam the Creator. In a play by an author with this surname, which ends with characters being compared to Adam and Eve, Helena works for the Humanity League.
  Part 2 (ans: robot [accept Rossum's UniversalRobots or Rossumovi Univerzalni Roboti]):
    Josef Capek was said by his brother to be the true inventor of this word for an automaton popularized by the Karel Capek play R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: insects [or bugs; accept Pictures from the Insects' Life or The Insect Play or The Bedbug or Klop or Ze zivota hmyzu]):
    The brothers Capek collaborated on a satirical play titled "Pictures from the" life of these creatures. One of these creatures is frozen along with Ivan Prisypkin for 50 years in a play by Vladimir Mayakovsky.

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A collection of news clippings in a novel titled for these creatures describes them creating hundreds of "universal languages" and imagines George Bernard Shaw's response to the question "Do [these creatures] Have Souls?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: newts [or mloky]):
    Name these dam-building, pearl-trading creatures taken as slaves after their discovery in Sumatra by Captain van Toch, leading them to engage in an apocalyptic war with humanity in a 1936 novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek ("chop-ek")):
    This Czech author of War with the Newts also touched on the theme of a servant race rebelling against mankind in his play R.U.R., which coined the term "robot."
  Part 3 (ans: the White Disease [or the White Plague; or morbus chengi; or Bila nemoc]):
    Doctor Galen refuses to give his cure for this fictional leprosy-like condition to the rich until world peace is declared in a 1937 anti-war Capek play.

[B3] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In a book by this author, a man sees "a table laid sumptuously for a supper of twenty" and "a couple in bed" floating out to sea on icebergs after going to a frost fair with Sasha. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Woolf; or Adeline Virginia Stephen]):
    Name this author who created the seemingly immortal, gender-changing Orlando in a book called "the longest and most charming love letter in literature" to Vita-Sackville West.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek ):
    The singer Emilia Marty reveals that she has a parchment which grants 300 years of youth in The Makropolous Affair, a play by this author. This author also wrote War with the Newts.
  Part 3 (ans: All Men are Mortal [or Tous les hommes sont mortels]):
    In this Simone de Beauvoir novel, Raymond Fosca lives from the 13th century to the 1940s and fears being the last being left alive on Earth after drinking a beggar's immortality potion.

[B4] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, one American and two Russian examples of these animals converse in a crumbling resort on the Black Sea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: insects [or mosquitoes; accept specific types of insects]):
    Name these animals that title a Victor Pelevin novel consisting of fifteen interlinked stories. Pelevin referenced a play by two brothers in which a miserable "Tramp" compares different people to these animals.
  Part 2 (ans: Capek [or Karel Capek; or Josef Capek]):
    Pictures From the Insects' Life is a play by two brothers with this surname. One of those brothers coined the modern meaning of the word "robot," which the other brother used in his play R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: a subway station [or metro; or subway tunnel; or Moscow metro; or Paris metro; or Zazie in the Metro; prompt on train station; prompt on tunnel by asking "where is this tunnel located?"]):
    In Pelevin's novel Omon Ra, the title character finds himself in one of these locations after his moon voyage misfires. Zazie meets her drag queen uncle Gabriel in a Raymond Queneau novel titled for one of these places.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Mae West and George Bernard Shaw are among the celebrities who comment on whether these animals have souls, according to one of many newspaper clippings collected by Mr. Povondra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: newts [accept salamanders; accept War with the Newts, Salamander Wars or Valka s Mloky; prompt on amphibians]):
    Name these animals that are discovered by Captain van Toch while searching for pearls, after which they form a syndicate and take over the world.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek ("KAR-el CHAH-pek")):
    This author of the satirical science-fiction novel War with the Newts coined the term "robot" in his play R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan Klima [or Ivan Kauders]):
    Multiple editions of War with the Newts have introductions by this other Czech author. He wrote about an author who works as a street sweeper in his novel Love and Garbage.

[B6] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In "Notes on the Way," E. M. Forster wrote that the conflict between the British Union of Fascists and the Communist Party of Great Britain was like a scene from this play. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Life of the Insects [or Pictures from the Insects' Life; or The Insect Play; or The Insect Comedy; or The World We Live In; or From Insect Life; or Ze zivota hmyzu] (The Jan Svankmajer film is Hmyz.)):
    Name this play later adapted into Jan Svankmajer's ("SHVAHNK-mah-yur's") last film. Like Animal Farm, this play allegorized post-World War I society by having the title creatures represent human characteristics.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek ("CHAH-pek")):
    The Life of Insects is a collaboration between this Czech author and his brother Josef ("YO-sef"). This author of War with the Newts coined the word "robot" in his play R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: immortality [accept equivalents such as that she cannot die]):
    In Capek's The Makropulos Affair, the title character Elina was granted this characteristic by Holy Roman Emperor Rudolf II. An essay by Bernard Williams about the play is subtitled for the "tedium" of this phenomenon.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, the protagonist's mother asks if love will clothe her when the two are discussing a proposal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Machinal):
    Name this play whose protagonist, Helen, accepts that proposal and has an affair with a man who tells her about committing murder in Mexico. Helen eventually murders her husband Mr. Jones to "be free" in this Sophie Treadwell play.
  Part 2 (ans: courtroom trial ( Lawrence and Lee wrote Inherit the Wind.)):
    In another play titled for machines, Elmer Rice's The Adding Machine, Mr. Zero undergoes one of these events attended by former dinner party guests. Henry Drummond participates in one of these events in a play by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee.
  Part 3 (ans: Karel Capek ("CHAH-peck")):
    Machines were first labeled "robots" in this Czech author's play R.U.R.

[B8] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman makes the decision to destroy this man's work after comparing humanity's condition to that of the sterile flowers that decorate the room that she is in. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Old Rossum [or Rossumov]):
    Name this man whose manuscripts are burned in a fireplace by a woman who is egged on by her nurse, Nana.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek ("CHAH-peck")):
    Rossum's manuscript is the key to making robots in the play R.U.R. by this author, who coined the word "robot."
  Part 3 (ans: Radius):
    In R.U.R., this super-intelligent robot is sent by Helena to work in the library, so he can learn that humans and robots are equals. Instead, he concludes that robots are superior and leads the robot rebellion that destroys humanity.

[B9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these animals kept at the London Zoo named Andrew Scheuchzer learns English by reading newspapers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: newts [or salamanders; or mloky]):
    Name these animals used to farm pearls by Gussie H. Bondy after Captain Van Toch discovers them on an island in the Pacific in a novel titled for the "War with" these creatures.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek ("CHAH-peck")):
    War With the Newts is a novel by this Czech author who introduced the word "robot" in his play R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: Romain Rolland ("roll-AWN")):
    While watching a performance of R.U.R., Capek asked this author whether he had the patience to make it through his "stupid, boring" play. This pioneer of the "people's theatre" wrote a 10-volume novel sequence about the German composer Jean-Christophe.

[B10] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel by this author, Polana helps her lover murder her husband, the naive title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Karel Capek):
    Name this author of Hordubal who wrote about a hack plagiarist in the Life and Work of the Composer Foltyn and a free energy source in The Absolute at Large.
  Part 2 (ans: R.U.R. (accept Rossum's Universal Robots, I guess)):
    This play by Capek ends with Alquist realizing that Primus and Helena, two of the title figures, have become the new Adam and Eve.
  Part 3 (ans: War with the Newts (or War with the Salamanders, or Valka s mloky)):
    At the beginning of this Capek novel, Captain van Toch discovers that Sumatran natives won't go to Devil Bay because of the title creatures. He does the noble thing and exploits them as pearl farmers, but they invent lebensraum and basically destroy humanity by the end of this novel.

[B11] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book includes many fictional newspaper clippings collected by Mr. Povondra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: War with the Newts [or Valka s mloky; or War with the Salamanders]):
    Name this novel in which Captain Van Toch enslaves a race of creatures for pearl farming, and the industrialist Gussie H. Bondy harnesses them for hydroengineering projects.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek):
    This man wrote War with the Newts as well as R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: Jaroslav Seifert):
    This Nobel-Prize-winning Czech poet wrote Put Out the Lights, which lamented the Nazi threat over Prague after the Munich Pact. His collection The Nightingale Sings Badly includes his impressions of the Soviet Union.

[B12] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The knowledge of this is lost after Nana watches another character burn it, and several years later, another character is tasked with rediscovering this. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rossum's formula for making robots [accept answers that mention that this is a formula to make robots; prompt on "formula" or equivalents like "recipe"; prompt on "robots"]):
    Name this secret, which Damon offers to buy for any price on behalf of the Central Committee. Damon then offers himself up to be dissected.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek):
    This author of War with the Newts wrote about a revolution led by robots in his R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: Primus or Helena [do not accept "Adam" or "Eve"]):
    At the end of R.U.R., Alquist threatens to kill two robots that have developed human-like love for each other. Name either.

[B13] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An appendix detailing the sex life of these creatures was written in a manner that mocked the academic writing of the author's time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: newts [or salamanders; or mloky]):
    Name these creatures that destroy large chunks of the world's continents as revenge for being exploited by the pearl farming industry.
  Part 2 (ans: Karel Capek):
    This Czech writer wrote War with the Newts and coined the term "robot" in his play R.U.R.
  Part 3 (ans: The Makropulos Affair [or The Makropulos Case; or Vec Makropulos]):
    Bernard Williams wrote an article about the "tedium of immortality" as it related to this Capek play, in which the arrival of opera singer Emilia Marty complicates the lawsuit between Jaroslav Prus and Albert Gregor.

[B14] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator and his brother Minami find a girl next to her dead mother in a warehouse and offer her porridge - during that mean, she decides to give the name Bear to a dog. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids):
    Name this novel in which a group of reformatory boys are left in an abandoned village after the plague strikes and the villagers take off.
  Part 2 (ans: The Day He Himself Shall Wipe My Tears Away (Mizukara Waga Namida o Nugui Tamau Hi)):
    This Oe story is about a 35-year-old man who wears underwater goggles covered with cellophane in his hospital bed, where he hopes that he has cancer but doesn't know if he does, and remembers his time as a youth during the war hearing the Emperor's voice.
  Part 3 (ans: Karel Capek):
    This author wrote about a leprosy disease, which kills all people over 45 unless they're healed by Doctor Galen, in his play The White Plague. He also wrote a novel in which humans engage in a war with Newts, after forming the Salamander Syndicate.

[B15] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In collaboration with his brother Josef, this author wrote a play in which a tramp dreams that human vices are represented as dung beetles, ants, and butterflies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Karel Capek):
    Name this author of Insect Play, who is more famous for a play in which a group of South Pacific amphibians grow exponentially more intelligent and threaten the human race globally.
  Part 2 (ans: robots):
    Capek is most famous for R.U.R, in which he coined this word for a race of automatons including Sulla, Marius, Radius, Proteus, Damon, and Helena, borrowing the Czech word for laborer.
  Part 3 (ans: The Absolute at Large [or The Factory of Absolute; or Tovarna na absolutno]):
    Random countries invade hilariously distant territories in this critique of capitalism by Capek, in which the engineer Rudolph Marek invents the Karburator, a machine which uses the title residue-less energy.
