=== STOCK CLUES: Rohinton Mistry ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 20 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Dalits [or Dalita; accept Untouchables; accept Scheduled Castes or SCs; accept Chamar or Jatav; accept An Anthology of Dalit Literature; prompt on outcastes; prompt on Malayali, Keralite, Marathi, Indian people, sweepers, or latrine cleaners by asking "of what class?"] (Baby Kamble wrote The Prisons We Broke. The fourth sentence is from A Fine Balance by Rohinton Mistry. Anand's novel is Untouchable. Arundhati Roy wrote The God of Small Things.)
  - In 1992, autobiographical writings by these people were collected in Poisoned Bread and an anthology co-edited by Eleanor Zelliot.
  - A modernist novel is titled for one of these people who prizes a hockey stick and the "fashun" of Tommies from the British barracks.
  - Latin American testimonios inspired the writings of women from this group like Bama and the author of The Prisons We Broke.
  - An uncle and nephew from this group ride the morning express in the prologue of a novel in which they work as tailors for Dina and are later sterilized.
  - One of these people named Bakha titles a 1935 novel by Mulk Raj Anand.
  - A Communist member of this group who works at Paradise Pickles & Preserves is beaten to death after he is blamed for the murder of Sophie Mol by Baby Kochamma.
  - For 10 points, Ammu transgresses the "Love Laws" with a member of what caste named Velutha in The God of Small Things? [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Canada (The first novel is Rohinton Mistry's A Fine Balance.)
  - An Indian-born immigrant to this country included a scene in which a helicopter causes a giant cutout of a leader to topple on civilians in a novel about the tailor Dina Dalal set during the Emergency. [PWR]
  - A forensic pathologist discovers a recently-buried skeleton in a novel from this country titled Anil's Ghost. [PWR]
  - While stealing military documents, a morphine-addicted thief from this country is caught and has his thumbs chopped off, inspiring his name (*) Caravaggio. [PWR]
  - A copy of Herodotus's Histories leads the injured title character of a novel from this country to recall his past experiences while being cared for by the nurse Hana in a bombed-out Italian villa during World War II.
  - For 10 points, what country is home to the Sri Lankan-born author of The English Patient, Michael Ondaatje ? [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 MGMT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rohinton Mistry
  - In one of this man's stories, Dr.
  - No-Ilaaz is unable to help the title character who, after ten years of trying to assimilate, finally returns to his home country because he cannot use Canadian toilets.
  - In another story by this author, one character recalls "irreverent" versions of the Ashem Vahoo prayer, and that character has his clean outfit stained by tobacco spit when he heads out to observe the title celebration of Behram Roje.
  - This author whose stories "Squatter" and "Auspicious Occasion" can be found in his collection Tales from Firozsha Baag wrote a novel in which Dilnawaz gets involved with the witch Miss Kutpitia, and in which the protagonist takes part in a money laundering scheme for his friend Jimmy Bilimoria, and that novel takes place during Bangladesh's war of independence with Pakistan.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Gustad Noble in his novel Such A Long Journey. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A book centered on this event describes Dina, who was married to Rustom with permission from Nusswan before he died after being hit by a truck. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Emergency):
    Name this event that provides the backdrop for a novel about Ishvar and Om, members of the Chamaar community, who develop a relationship with Maneck Kohlah.
  Part 2 (ans: Rohinton Mistry):
    The Emergency provides the backdrop to A Fine Balance, a novel by this Indian-Canadian author of a novel set in 1971 Bombay, Such a Long Journey.
  Part 3 (ans: Midnight's Children):
    The Emergency also provides the backdrop of some chapters of this novel by Salman Rushdie that centers on Saleem Sinai, who was born when India gained its independence.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer's book An Area of Darkness was banned in India for its harsh portrayal of the country, including statements like "Indians defecate everywhere... they never look for cover." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: V. S. Naipaul [or Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul]):
    Name this Indo-Trinidadian writer, who said in his Nobel Lecture that his first trip to India "broke [his] life in two." He wrote A House for Mr. Biswas.
  Part 2 (ans: Rohinton Mistry):
    This writer's novel Such a Long Journey was withdrawn from a syllabus at University of Mumbai when Bal Thackeray's grandson complained about its depiction of Marathi ("muh-RAH-tee") speakers. He also wrote A Fine Balance.
  Part 3 (ans: Perumal Murugan):
    This Tamil author of Pyre declared his "literary suicide" due to the outcry over his novel One-Part Woman, in which Kali and Ponna's inability to conceive leads Ponna to attend a festival where women can have sex with strangers.

[B3] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a novel titled for these people, a boy named Bakha rushes home to tell his father about the introduction of the flush toilet to their country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dalits [accept untouchables] (The first novel is Untouchable by Mulk Raj Anand.)):
    Name these people. In The God of Small Things, a Communist one of these people named Velutha dies in prison after Estha and Rahel tell Inspector Thomas Mathew that he had murdered their cousin Sophie Mol.
  Part 2 (ans: tigers [accept The White Tiger; or Bengal tiger; or Panthera tigris tigris]):
    Balram Halwai describes his untouchability as "the Darkness" to Wen Jiabao in an Aravind Adiga novel titled for a white one of these animals. One of these animals named Richard Parker accompanies the title character in Life of Pi.
  Part 3 (ans: A Fine Balance (by Rohinton Mistry)):
    The untouchable Ishvar has his legs amputated and his nephew Om is castrated because they disrespect an upper-class gangster at the end of this novel set during the Emergency.

[B4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, two characters notice that a billboard for Modern Bread has been replaced by a picture of the prime minister. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Fine Balance (by Rohinton Mistry)):
    Name this novel, in which Dina Dalal forges an inseparable relationship with the Darji tailors and her tenant Maneck Kohlah amid the turmoil of the Emergency.
  Part 2 (ans: Midnight's Children):
    In this other novel, the "magician's ghetto" of Picture Singh is destroyed as part of the Emergency's policies. Saleem Sinai is forced to undergo a vasectomy by Emergency officials in this Salman Rushdie novel.
  Part 3 (ans: V. S. Naipaul [or Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul] (The second novel is A House for Mr. Biswas.)):
    After visiting India during the Emergency, this author wrote the second book in his Indian Trilogy. The pundit Jayaram harasses the protagonist of another of his novels, who was born "in the wrong way" and with six fingers.

[B5] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about contemporary novels set in India:
  Part 1 (ans: Rohinton Mistry):
    Maneck learns about the suicides and deformities that have beset his former friends during the Emergency at the end of this author's A Fine Balance .
  Part 2 (ans: Saraswati Park):
    In this novel by Anjali Joseph, Mohan Karekar's married life at the title housing project is turned upside down when his gay nephew Ashish comes to move in with him to study literature in Mumbai.

[B6] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this surname wrote about Mumbai's Parsi community in Chronicle of a Corpse Bearer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mistry [or Rohinton Mistry; or Cyrus Mistry]):
    Give this surname of an author of a novel in which the brothers Narayan and Ishvar work as tailors in Dina's flat during their country's turbulent 1970s.
  Part 2 (ans: Gandhi):
    Rohinton Mistry's A Delicate Balance is set during the rule of a person with this surname. A man with this surname discussed his methods of "peaceful resistance" and Satyagraha in The Story of My Experiments with Truth.
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Shui hu zhuan; or anything mentioning a tale about a Marsh or Mount Liang]):
    Mohandas Gandhi's writings were also collected in a book titled All Men Are Brothers, a phrase that has also been used to title a translation of this novel about 108 bandits who gather on a mountain.

[B7] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: David Brookshaw has been responsible for most of the English translations of this author's works, including his short story collection Voices Made Night and his novel The Last Flight of the Flamingo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mia Couto [or Antonio Emilio Leite Couto]):
    Name this contemporary author. Tuahir and Muidinga find and read through a set of notebooks written by Kindzu in this man's most famous novel, Sleepwalking Land
  Part 2 (ans: Jorge Amado [or Jorge Leal Amado de Faria]):
    Couto, like many modern Mozambican authors, was heavily influenced by this Brazilian modernist, whose novels include Gabriela, Clove, and Cinnamon and Dona Flor and her Two Husbands.
  Part 3 (ans: Rohinton Mistry):
    Couto's predecessor as winner of the Neustadt International Prize was this Parsi author of Tales from Firozsha Baag. In 2010, complaints from relatives of Bal Thackeray led the University of Mumbai to remove his first novel, Such a Long Journey from its curriculum.
