=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Rohinton Mistry ===
(Questions where 'Rohinton Mistry' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 3 found, 14 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Canada
  - A writer sends his parents letters from this country, leading his mother to wonder why his stories are not set in this country, in the short story "Swimming Lessons." In another short story, an electrical engineer in this country declares "it's a parent's duty to hope" and describes how two boys cou
  - After a plane crash, the government worker Judith Templeton asks Shaila to help people in this country perform the title "Management of Grief." In a novel written in this country, a boy named after a swimming pool who practices Hindusim, Islam, and Christianity narrates two versions of how he surviv
  - For 10 points, name this adopted country of Rohinton Mistry, Bharati Mukherjee, and Yann Martel .

[TM2] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Mumbai [or Bombay]
  - S / REPLACEMENTS Packet by The Editors Editors Auroni Gupta, Jordan Brownstein, Matt Bollinger, JinAh Kim, Alex Damisch, Ike Jose, Andrew Hart, Andrew Wang, Athena Kern, Aaron Rosenberg, Jason Cheng Writers Mike Bentley, Will Nediger, Jason Zhou, Dylan Minarik, Rob Carson, Will Alston, Olivia Lamber
  - The protagonist of a novel set in this city is repeatedly told to "hug it the bear" in reference to a dancing bear named Kano, which he must hug before he can receive a secret message.
  - In 2010, a novel set in this city was withdrawn from the English syllabus of a university in this city because of the grandson of a nationalist politician complained that it unfavorably portrayed his grandfather's party.
  - The escaped Australian bank robber Lindsay Ford lives in this city in Gregory David Roberts' autobiographical novel Shantaram.
  - The unnamed "city by the sea" where the widow Dina hires two tailors to sew patterns for Au Revoir Exports in A Fine Balance is a clear representation of this city.
  - For 10 points, Rohinton Mistry's novel Such a Long Journey is critical of the right-wing Shiv Sena party, which has a strong influence on the Bollywood film industry in what city?

[TM3] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: A Fine Balance
  - In the epilogue to this novel, a character weeps upon recognizing three girls from his youth in a newspaper article reporting that they had hanged themselves because their father could not afford their dowries.
  - To maximize public sympathy, a "Beggarmaster" in this novel manages a troupe of people with diverse deformities, such as being legless or having no eyes.
  - In its climactic scene, two of this novel's main characters are piled into a truck and taken to the Family (*) Planning Center, where one has his legs amputated and the other is castrated after both undergo compulsory vasectomies.
  - To remain financially independent, a woman in this novel takes on the paying boarder Maneck Kohlah and works the untouchable tailors Ishvar and Omprakash under sweatshop conditions.
  - For 10 points, name this set at the apartment of the Parsi woman Dina Dilal, the best-known novel by Canadian-Indian novelist Rohinton Mistry.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about terrorist attacks in works by ethnically Indian authors from Canada.
  Part 1 (ans: Jasmine):
    The radical terrorist Sukhwinder kills the protagonist's husband Prakash in this novel by Bharati Mukherjee.
  Part 2 (ans: plane crash [accept answers relating to a plane being shot down; prompt on bombing] (The other novel is The Satanic Verses by Salman Rushdie.)):
    Bharati Mukherjee also wrote the story "The Management of Grief," in which Shaila's family dies in one of these events caused by Sikh terrorists. At the beginning of a novel by a different author, two characters turn into an angel and demon during one of these events.
  Part 3 (ans: Indira Gandhi [or Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi; prompt on Gandhi or Nehru]):
    In the novel A Fine Balance by Rohinton Mistry, Maneck Kolah returns to India and sees the widespread killing of Sikhs after two Sikh guards assassinated this Indian Prime Minister.

[BM2] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some things about the groundbreaking Fijian novel The Wounded Sea by Satendra Nandan, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: India):
    The Wounded Sea fictionalises Nandan's experiences as part of this country's diaspora. Other writers from this country's diaspora include Rohinton Mistry, Bharati Mukherjee and Vikram Seth.
  Part 2 (ans: V. S. Naipaul):
    Vijay Mishra argues that The Wounded Sea is highly influenced by the work of this other author of the Indian diaspora, including his comic novel The Mystic Masseur. This author's other comic characters include Mr Popo and the poet B. Wordsworth, who live in the title place of one of his story collec
  Part 3 (ans: ruins [accept Ruins of a Great House]):
    Sivagurunathan argued that the major theme of The Wounded Sea was its references to these general structures in Fiji. This is the first word in the title of a poem that describes how "the leprosy of empire" surrounds a certain place's "disjecta membra".

[BM3] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist, who sweeps latrines for a living, is delighted to hear about the prospect of flush toilets coming to India. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Untouchable):
    Name this 1935 novel by Mulk Raj Anand that ends with Bakha watching an anti-discrimination speech by Mahatma Gandhi. It was one of the first major Indian novels written in English.
  Part 2 (ans: The God of Small Things):
    Arundhati Roy has received flak for claiming that Gandhi accepted caste discrimination and calling for institutions named after him to be renamed. The mother of the protagonists has an affair with an untouchable employee named Velutha in this novel, her first and best known.
  Part 3 (ans: A Fine Balance):
    A third English-language novel about untouchables is this novel set during the Emergency by Rohinton Mistry. This novel ends with Omprakash being forcibly castrated after disrespecting an upper caste gangster.

[BM4] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this surname wrote about Mumbai's Parsi community in Chronicle of a Corpse Bearer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mistry [or Rohinton Mistry; or Cyrus Mistry]):
    Give this surname of an author of a novel in which the brothers Narayan and Ishvar work as tailors in Dina's flat during their country's turbulent 1970s.
  Part 2 (ans: Gandhi):
    Rohinton Mistry's A Delicate Balance is set during the rule of a person with this surname. A man with this surname discussed his methods of "peaceful resistance" and Satyagraha in The Story of My Experiments with Truth.
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Shui hu zhuan; or anything mentioning a tale about a Marsh or Mount Liang]):
    Mohandas Gandhi's writings were also collected in a book titled All Men Are Brothers, a phrase that has also been used to title a translation of this novel about 108 bandits who gather on a mountain.

[BM5] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel's epilogue, Maneck commits suicide by letting himself get run over by a train. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Fine Balance):
    Dina Dalal illegally hires two tailors to work in her home in this novel. One of those tailors, Ishvar, loses both his legs to gangrene during a castration procedure ordered by Thakur.
  Part 2 (ans: India's Independence [accept logical equivalents, as well as Partition of India]):
    Rohinton Mistry's A Fine Balance chronologically begins at this event. Two people born during this event are switched at birth and are distinguished by enormous knees and telepathic ability in Midnight's Children.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie):
    Midnight's Children is a novel by this British-Indian author, who described the effects of the fatwa imposed on him after he published The Satanic Verses in his recent memoir Joseph Anton.

[BM6] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Leadin: Jeet Thayil wrote about addicts in this city's opium dens in his novel Narcopolis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mumbai [or Bombay]):
    Name this city, the setting of Vikram Chandra's novel Sacred Games and Manu Joseph's novel Serious Men. Rohinton Mistry called it "the city by the sea" in A Fine Balance, which follows people living here during the Emergency.
  Part 2 (ans: The Moor's Last Sigh):
    This novel by Salman Rushdie was banned in India for satirizing Mumbai's right-wing political leader Bal Thackeray. It is narrated by Moraes Zogoiby, and its title refers to a story about Boabdil, the last Muslim ruler of Granada.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Theroux):
    This author included novellas about American travelers to Mumbai in his 2007 book The Elephanta Suite. He also wrote the novels Saint Jack and Doctor Slaughter, and drew on his experience as a Peace Corps volunteer in Malawi to write The Lower River.
