=== STOCK CLUES: Charles Demuth ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 36 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles [accept Charles Demuth; accept Charles Sheeler]
  - An artist with this first name draws a stove in an imagined landscape featuring a miniature Hoover Dam, titled The Artist Looks at Nature. [PWR]
  - That artist with this first name photographed Ford's River Rouge factory, as depicted in his Classic Landscape and American Landscape. [PWR]
  - An artist with this first name created "poster portraits," like one displaying a scythe in front of the word "DOVE." An artist with this first name set paintings of the Eshelman Feed building and a (*) grain elevator intersected by diagonal light beams in his hometown of Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
  - In a painting by an artist with this first name, the name "BILL" appears above an abstract fire truck inspired by a William Carlos Williams poem.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the artist of I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold, whose surname is Demuth. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 GORKY (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Precisionism (accept word forms) [The unnamed paintings are, in order: Pittsburgh by Elsie Driggs, The Artist Looks At Nature by Charles Sheeler, Americana by Charles Sheeler, and My Egypt by Charles Demuth.]
  - An artist from this movement called a painting her "Piero della Francesca" and admired him for his "desire for structure and order, simplicity and strength." An artist well known for their work in this movement painted an elevated area with two sets of stairs and a depiction of himself drawing a picture of a stove. [PWR]
  - A checkered (+) cushion and two pillows appear in the background of a painting from this movement that depicts a carpeted room and a game of backgammon lying on a table. [PWR]
  - An artist from this movement depicted several beams of light shining on a massive building with two cylindrical structures rising from the bottom of the painting. [PWR]
  - Elsie (*) Driggs worked in this movement.
  - An artist from this movement painted the words "BILL" and "ART CO." on a painting based on a poem by William Carlos Williams.For 10 points, identify this American art movement known for its hard edges, exemplified by I Saw The Figure Five in Gold by Charles Demuth. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Demuth
  - The numbers 1, 2, 3, a mask, and the word Love repeated 3 times appear in one of this artist's paintings. [PWR]
  - Henry James's The Beast in the Jungle inspired this artist to paint the watercolor Boat Ride from Sorrento.
  - A blue skyline is blacked out by large buildings while the title scent rises from the bottom of the painting in this artist's Incense of a New Church. [PWR]
  - A traffic light in front of a brown and pink factory is depicted in this artist's ...And the Home of the Brave. [PWR]
  - The (*) homosexuality of this artist was portrayed in his work Turkish Bath with Self Portrait.
  - One of this artist's paintings includes intersecting bands of light in front of a large grain elevator.
  - This artist's "poster portraits" of his friends include one with the word "Bill" on it in which the title symbol appears on a fire truck.
  - For 10 points, identify this Precisionist painter who was inspired by William Carlos Williams to paint I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Demuth
  - This artist's watercolors, including illustrations for The Beast in the Jungle and The Turn of the Screw, led Paul Rosenfeld to suspect "an almost feminine refinement in his wash," a coded reference to this man's homosexuality.
  - One of this man's paintings consists of a bunch of grapes, a pinecone, and a sickle with a red ribbon on its handle, all below the word "Dove." In an oil painting, this artist used diagonal, fragmented planes to suggest an inspirational, spiritual dimension of a structure owned by the John W.
  - E.
  - Shelman Feed Company in his hometown of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, thereby linking it with the pyramids.
  - This artist painted nine "poster portraits" of his friends, one of which shows shafts of light streaming from two streetlights in the midground and a sign reading "Carlo." In that painting, he used gold leaf for the medium-sized copy of the title symbol, which appears at one end of a fire truck.
  - For 10 points, name this Precisionist artist of I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Demuth
  - This painter used force lines to crystallize the sky behind Provincetown's Central Methodist Episcopal Church in a water-color work titled Afer Sir Christopher Wren.
  - This artist painted a portrait of Arthur Dove showing a giant scythe dominating an people-less landscape where the word "Dove" appears in the sky.
  - He depicted a man rowing a couple in front of a smol-dering volcano in his watercolor illustration of Henry James's "The Beast in the Jungle." In another work, this artist adopted a low vantage point to heighten the monumentality of two white grain elevators standing to the lef of a black smokestack.
  - This artist portrayed Lancaster, Pennsylvania in his works Aucassin and Nicolette and My Egpt and created a genre called the "poster portrait." He placed the fragmented word "BILL" in the upper lef of a painting that features a scattered streetlights and a red shapes resembling the fre truck described in a William Carlos Williams poem.
  - For 10 points, name this leader of the Precisionist movement who painted I Saw The Figure 5 in Gold. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Demuth
  - A woman in a yellow dress clutches a brown-suited soldier in one watercolor series by this artist titled In Vaudeville, and he depicted a rather stoned looking grey-faced woman in the bottom right of The Masque of the Red Death.
  - The Thyssen-Bornemisza museum houses one work by this man in which a white mask appears between the the numbers 1 through 3 and the word love, and he created several illustrations of Zola's Nana.
  - The words "office," "plant," and "feed" appear on a billboard in another painting by this artist who depicted a large grain elevator in Aucassin and Nicolette.
  - This pioneer of Precisionism is best known for a paintings in which a depiction of a fire truck appears in front of the word "Carlos." For 10 points, identify this American artist of I Saw the Figure Five in Gold. [GIVE]

[T7] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Demuth
  - In one of this artist's works, smoke billows above a yellow and blue sign that reads "Office & Plant Eshelman Est. 1881 FEED." He referenced a French pastoral romance in the title of his painting of a factory, Aucassin and Nicolette.
  - This artist of Buildings, Lancaster led the Precisionist movement and painted a grain elevator to resemble the monuments of an exotic country in My Egypt.
  - In another of this man's paintings, part of the words "bill" and "Carlos" can be seen, as can three representations of the title number, which is above the initials "W.C.W." For 10 points, name this Philadelphian artist of I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The artist's friend Arnold Ronnebeck claimed a cursive "E" in this painting referenced his patron Queen Elisabeth of Greece, but it may refer to the artist's birth name, Edmund. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Portrait of a German Officer):
    Name this 1914 painting that features a silver spur, a yellow-on-blue inscription of the number 24, and a gold-on-red inscription of the initials "Kv.F."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Demuth [or Charles Henry Buckius Demuth]):
    The latent homoeroticism of Marsden Hartley's Portrait of a German Officer is analyzed in Jonathan Weinberg's book Speaking for Vice, which is titled for a quote by this artist of I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold.
  Part 3 (ans: Fountain [prompt on Marcel Duchamp's urinal; prompt on readymades]):
    Weinberg also analyzes the homoeroticism of this sculpture, which Demuth described in a letter and poem. This work was photographed in front of Hartley's The Warriors for the journal The Blind Man.

[B2] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several Cezanne-esque paintings of this state, such as The Ice Hole, were created by an artist who moved back to this state due to World War I. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maine (The second painting is Christina's World.)):
    Name this state, the frequent subject of paintings by Marsden Hartley. The title girl of another painting set in this state looks up at the Olson House.
  Part 2 (ans: Germany [or Deutschland; accept German Empire or Deutsches Reich; accept Weimar Republic; accept Nazi Germany]):
    Before returning to the US, Hartley depicted several military decorations in his abstract portrait of an officer from this country. One of this country's leaders labeled its New Objectivity movement as "degenerate art."
  Part 3 (ans: I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold (by Charles Demuth)):
    The genesis of this Precisionist painting supposedly occurred when an author waiting for Hartley to answer his door watched traffic rush by in the rain outside, inspiring a poem that led a different artist to create this painting.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An early patron of this artist, John Quinn, displayed his pieces such as Portrait of Mademoiselle Pogany at the Armory Show to popularize modern sculpture in the US. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Constantin Brancusi ("brin-KOOSH")):
    Name this sculptor whose international commissions included a never-constructed Temple of Meditation for the Maharajah of Indore. Three World War I memorial sculptures are found in an ensemble by this artist at Targu Jiu ("TER-goo JEE-oo").
  Part 2 (ans: birds):
    Brancusi's Temple of Meditation would have included many of his sculptures of these animals that he gifted to the Maharajah. Many abstracted forms of these animals by Brancusi are depicted "In Space" and "In Flight."
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Demuth [or Charles Henry Buckius Demuth] (The painting is I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold.)):
    A group of art patrons admire Brancusi's phallic sculpture Princess X in this artist's Distinguished Air. Another painting by this artist is based on a William Carlos Williams poem about witnessing a speeding fire truck.

[B4] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the overlap between painting and poetry:
  Part 1 (ans: Pieter Breughel the Elder):
    W.H. Auden said "About suffering they were never wrong, / The old Masters" in his poem "Musee des Beaux Arts," which was inspired by this artist's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Demuth [the first painting mentioned is I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold]):
    A William Carlos Williams poem about a speeding fire truck inspired a painting by this Precisionist, who also created many landscapes of his native Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Fallacies of Hope"):
    J.M.W. Turner paired many of his paintings with excerpts from this poem, which he never published or finished. The Slave Ship was exhibited with a section of this poem that asks its title concept "Where is thy market now?"

[B5] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist controversially portrayed Marie Bonaparte as a bronze phallus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Constantin Brancusi ("brin-KOOSH")):
    Name this artist who made his American debut at the Armory Show with three oblong-shaped busts and The Kiss, a rectangular sculpture of two embracing figures.
  Part 2 (ans: Bird in Space):
    Brancusi disputed US Customs' designation of the sculptures in this series as "kitchen utensils" and not art. A court later agreed that the sculptures in this series sufficiently represented flight.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    This painter's Distinguished Air shows two gay sailors and a husband and wife observing Brancusi's phallic sculpture Princess X. He used text and abstract forms to represent nine of his friends in his "poster portraits."

[B6] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted grain elevators in paintings such Aucassin and Nicolette and My Egypt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    Name this American modernist painter best known for a 1928 painting inspired by a William Carlos Williams poem about a fire engine, I Saw the Figure Five in Gold.
  Part 2 (ans: precisionism):
    Demuth's painting of an ocean liner entitled Paquebot (Paris) and Charles Sheeler's similar painting Upper Deck both exemplify this American art style, characterized by hard-edged depictions of industrial scenes.
  Part 3 (ans: manifestos):
    The modernist fascination with ocean liners also appears in a Futurist document of this type by Filippo Marinetti. The founders of most 20th-century art movements issued a declaration of this type explaining their goals and ideas.

[B7] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Werner Drewes created a lithograph of one of these objects, many of which were manufactured by John W. Eshelman and Sons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: grain elevators [prompt on elevators]):
    Name these agricultural objects from rural America. One of them in Lancaster, Pennyslvania was por-trayed with the monumental scale that might be expected of a pyramid in the Precisionist painting My Egypt.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    This artist of My Egypt illustrated a William Carlos Williams poem in his painting I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold.
  Part 3 (ans: watercolors [or aquarelle]):
    Apart from his Precisionist paintings, Demuth was renowned for his paintings of flowers, fruits, and veg-etables executed in this medium, which uses paints made of soluble pigments.

[B8] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Deianira sits on a cornucopia that spills out into Midwestern farmland in this painter's mural Achelous and Hercules. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Hart Benton):
    Name this Regionalist artist who controversially depicted a member of the Ku Klux Klan burning a cross in an image from his Indiana Murals.
  Part 2 (ans: Grant Wood [or Grant DeVolson Wood]):
    Benton was part of a triumvirate of famous Regionalist painters, along with John Curry and this Iowan, who used his dentist as the model for a stern, pitchfork-carrying father in his American Gothic.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    This Precisionist artist, who often painted factories and grain elevators in his hometown of Lancaster, Pennsylvania, is best known for illustrating a William Carlos Williams poem about a fire engine in his I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold.

[B9] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a factory in his precisionist painting Aucassin and Nicolette. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    Name this artist of I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold.
  Part 2 (ans: Bill):
    This name appears cut off at the top of I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold.
  Part 3 (ans: love):
    A mask and the numbers "1 2 3" appear in a Demuth painting whose title is this word repeated three times. Robert Indiana is known for his sculptures of this four-letter word, with the second letter tilted.

[B10] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In addition to its nearly 200 Renoirs, this collection is home to Picasso's "Head of a Woman." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barnes Foundation):
    Name this Pennsylvania art collection that includes many of Modigliani's "Jeanne" paintings.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    The Barnes Foundation also contains many of this artist's paintings illustrating Emile Zola's Nana. This Precisionist may be better-known for I Saw the Figure Five in Gold and My Egypt.
  Part 3 (ans: The Models [or Les Poseuses]):
    The Barnes also houses this Seurat canvas in which the title figures are arranged in a triangle with another Seurat work on a wall.

[B11] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Members of this art movement like Elsie Driggs were championed at the first show by the Whitney museum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Precisionism):
    Identify this American art movement of the 1920s and 1930s, characterized by a painting of the John W. Eshelman and Sons building in Lancaster, Pennsylvania titled My Egypt.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    This artist of My Egypt drew on a William Carlos Williams poem for his painting, I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Rettew Sheeler, Jr.):
    A railroad spans the right-hand side of this Precisionist's Classic Landscape, which depicts the Ford River Rouge plant. He also included a backgammon table in his 1931 painting, Americana.

[B12] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work shows a volcano in the background, which is represented as a mountain whose top contains shades of red that has steam spouting from its top. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Boat Ride from Sorrento):
    Name this painting that shows three people on the water, one of whom grasps two oars. The others are a man in a brown hat and coat and a blonde woman wearing a black and red domed hat.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    The Boat Ride from Sorrento was painted by this American who also executed I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold and Turkish Bath with Self Portrait.
  Part 3 (ans: Georgia O'Keeffe):
    Demuth was a friend of this other artist, who entered into a relationship with the much older Alfred Stieglitz. She is known for her paintings of skulls and flowers, many of which were inspired by her time in the West.

[B13] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Artists associated with this movement include the Elsie Driggs and Louis Lozowick. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Precisionism [or Cubist Realism]):
    Identify this early 20th century artistic movement, whose members included the photographer Charles Sheeler. It focused on portraying industrial subjects with simple shapes and clear outlines.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Demuth):
    This Precisionist painted a number of Cubist watercolor still-lifes, but is most famous for My Egypt and I Saw the Figure Five in Gold.
  Part 3 (ans: the Brooklyn Bridge):
    Another Precisionist, Joseph Stella, painted many Futurist depictions of this New York City landmark. Walker Evans began photographing it extensively in 1929.
