=== STOCK CLUES: Palladio ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andrea Palladio [or Andrea di Pietro]
  - A house designed by this man includes two symmetrical wings leading out to pavilions that sport sundials underneath the pediments of their facades. [PWR]
  - After his death, a theater designed by this man was given a trompe-l'œil set designed to look like a long street heading upstage. [PWR]
  - A church designed by this man uses white marble for a four-column, elevated classical temple facade that's superimposed over a second, lower temple facade. [PWR]
  - A country house designed by this man has (*) porticos facing each of the four cardinal directions. [PWR]
  - This designer of the Olympic Theater adapted Roman temple designs for his many villas in and around Vicenza.
  - Monticello was built on principles inspired by this designer of San Giorgio Maggiore.
  - For 10 points, name this Venetian Renaissance architect who wrote the Four Books on Architecture and designed the Villa Rotonda. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: The priest Lucius Caecilius Metellus lost his eyesight trying to save a statue that the Romans held to be identical to this object. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palladium [or Palladion; reject "Pallas"]):
    Name this sacred object that Diomedes and Odysseus steal from Troy to dispel its protective influence over the city.
  Part 2 (ans: Pallas Athena [or Athene; reject "Minerva"]):
    The Palladium is a sacred Trojan statue of this goddess of war and wisdom.
  Part 3 (ans: Demophon [or Demophoon]):
    An Athenian king of this name took the Palladium from Diomedes after overcoming him in a nighttime battle. A young prince of this name was the son of Metaneira, who shrieked when she saw a ritual to which he was subjected.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For a "basilica" in this city, an architect active there designed a series of tripartite, arched exteriors for its loggia that have become "windows" alternatively named for that architect or Sebastiano Serlio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vicenza [or Vicensa]):
    Name this city home to a theater completed by Vincenzo Scamozzi, whose scenery uses trompe l'oeil ("tromp LOY") to depict streets receding from its stage. That theater's original architect met his mentor Gian Giorgio Trissino in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio [or Andrea di Pietro della Gondola]):
    The Teatro Olimpico, and many other buildings in Vicenza, were designed by this architect. Thomas Jefferson's design for Monticello was inspired by this architect's Villa La Rotonda.
  Part 3 (ans: Vitruvius [prompt on Vitruvian Man]):
    Palladio is called the "architect of Vicenza" in Daniele Barbaro's introduction to this man's writings, which Palladio illustrated. His writings inspired Leonardo's drawing of a man with ideal body proportions.

[B3] 2023 ACF Fall (2023) | Diff: 6 | Mythology
     Leadin: According to Helenus, Troy would not fall so long as this object remained within its walls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palladium [or Palladion; reject "Pallas"]):
    Name this wooden statue, created by Athena after the death of its namesake warrior. This statue is said to have fallen from the sky in answer to a prayer from Ilus, the founder of Troy.
  Part 2 (ans: Cassandra):
    Helenus knew about the Palladium due to his gift of prophecy, an ability he shared with this woman, his twin sister. After rejecting Apollo's advances, this woman was cursed for no one to ever believe her prophecies.
  Part 3 (ans: Odysseus):
    This man kidnapped Helenus and stole the Palladium along with Diomedes. This general's ten year journey home to Ithaca was the subject of a Homeric epic poem set after the Iliad.

[B4] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many of this man's buildings had a granary above the main bedrooms owing to the Venetian custom of storing goods in attics rather than marshy basements. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    Identify this Renaissance architect who wrote The Four Books on Architecture. He shouldn't be confused with Leon Battista Alberti.
  Part 2 (ans: Villa La Rotonda [prompt on Villa Almerico-Capra]):
    This Palladian Villa built for Paolo Almerico has a temple pediment for each of its four facades. Thomas Jefferson based Monticello on this building.
  Part 3 (ans: England [accept Great Britain or the United Kingdom]):
    Chiswick House is an example of a style of Palladian architecture named for this country. Inigo Jones helped bring Palladianism to this country and designed its Banqueting House at Whitehall.

[B5] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first section of this treatise devises "rule-sets" that are divided into "parametric objects" and "parametric formulas." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Four Books of Architecture [or I quattro libri dell'architettura]):
    Name this 1570 treatise that includes sections on city planning and the five classical orders, as well as blueprints of its author's own designs. This treatise ends with detailed descriptions of 26 Roman temples.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    This Venetian Renaissance architect wrote The Four Books of Architecture. This architect's namesake style, exemplified by his Villa Capra and Villa Godi, inspired Thomas Jefferson's design for Monticello.
  Part 3 (ans: domes):
    Palladio's Villa Capra is also known as La Rotonda for its large central hall, which is covered by one of these features. Brunelleschi used an octagonal design for a massive one of these structures atop Florence's cathedral.

[B6] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This architect built on the geometric principles of Alberti for his design of the monastery church of San Giorgio Maggiore. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio [accept Andrea di Pietro della Gondola]):
    Name this influential architect who used a floor plan of a circle inside two larger squares for his design of the Villa Rotunda. One of his patron's, the scholar Giangiorgio Trissino nicknamed him for the Greek Goddess of Wisdom.
  Part 2 (ans: Pantheon):
    Palladio's design for the Villa Rotunda was inspired by the rotunda from this former temple in Rome. The portico of this landmark features sixteen granite Corinthian columns.
  Part 3 (ans: four):
    Palladio's major treatise is titled for this many books of architecture. This number is one more than the number of classical Greek architectural orders.

[B7] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Mythology
     Leadin: An object of this name was washed in the yearly Plynteria and was said to have fallen from the sky in Athens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palladium [or Palladion; do not accept or prompt on "Pallas"]):
    Give the name of that cult statue of Athena. Troy was legendarily protected by a wooden statue of the same name, which was made by Athena to depict a companion whose name she took as an epithet.
  Part 2 (ans: Erechtheum [or Erechtheion] (It is named for Erechtheus.)):
    The Palladion was housed in this temple which was dedicated to both Athena and Poseidon and, like the Parthenon, was built under Pericles' leadership. It is named for a king of Athens who was identified with Poseidon.
  Part 3 (ans: Hephaestus [or Hephaistos]):
    Near the Erechtheum was a shrine to this Greek god, who used an axe to split open Zeus's head so Athena could be born. He serves as the gods' blacksmith.

[B8] 2019 Prison Bowl (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Let's revive Rome! (Sort of.) For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    Name this neoclassical Italian architect known for his namesake symmetrical villas. He wrote The Four Books of Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Monticello):
    Thomas Jefferson was highly influenced by Palladio when designing this Charlottesville, Virginia estate.
  Part 3 (ans: National Historic Landmark [accept NHL]):
    Monticello is designated by the Secretary of the Interior as one of these sites of historical importance. All of these sites are on the National Register of Historic Places, but only some 2,500 out of 90,000 sites on the National Register are designated as one of these these.

[B9] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A work of this type titled After the Hunt by William Michael Harnett was used by bartenders to check a patron's sobriety. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: trompe l'oeil ("tromp loyl")):
    Give this term for paintings which, as their French name suggests, aim to "fool the eye" into thinking that the objects depicted are real.
  Part 2 (ans: linear perspective):
    Trompe l'oeil paintings make use of the "linear" form of this technique, giving images on a flat surface the appearance of having three dimensions. Paintings that use it have vanishing points.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    This man's student Vincenzo Scamozzi ("vin-CHEN-zoh ska-MOT-zee") designed the trompe-l'oeil stage scenery for his final commission, the Teatro Olimpico. Trompe l'oeil murals also decorate his most famous design, which is on a hill outside Piacenza.

[B10] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect designed the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore (mah-JOH-ray) on an island in Venice. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    Name this Italian architect who designed many country homes, such as the Villa Barbaro in Treviso. He wrote Four Books on Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Jefferson):
    Palladio's Four Books on Architecture were studied by this American architect, who drew inspiration from them to design his personal residence, Monticello.
  Part 3 (ans: Vicenza (vee-CHENT-sah) [or Vicetia or Vincentia]):
    Many of Palladio's buildings, such as the Villa La Rotonda and the Santa Maria Nova, can be found in this city, which houses over 20 of Palladio's buildings. It was turned into a UNESCO World Heritage site to commemorate Palladio's works.

[B11] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the Roman calendar, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: February [Februarius]):
    This month, named after instruments of purification, was the last month of the original Roman calendar. During it, the festivals of Parentalia, to honour ancestors, and Lupercalia, noted for its fertility-inducing foot race, were held.
  Part 2 (ans: Janus):
    This god, not shared with the Greek pantheon, was worshipped as the god of beginnings and endings. The doors of this two-headed god's temple were kept open during times of war - and so were hardly ever closed.
  Part 3 (ans: the Palladium [Palladion]):
    This wooden object, a statue of Athena, was believed to protect the city of Rome, despite its noted failure to protect Troy. Lucius Caecilius Metellus, Pontifex Maximus, was reportedly blinded while rescuing this object when the Temple of Vesta burnt down in 241 BCE.

[B12] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This white stone mansion on the Brenta Riviera has a raised front portico that can be accessed through twin side stone stairways. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Villa Foscari):
    Identify this building that is also known as La Malcontenta, due to the legend that the spouse of its owner was locked up there when she refused to sleep with him.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    The Villa Foscari was designed by this Italian architect of the Villa Barbaro whose classically-derived style influenced Thomas Jefferson.
  Part 3 (ans: Venice):
    The Villa Foscari is located a few miles west of this city, which contains Palladio's monumental churches Il Redentore and San Giorgio Maggiore.

[B13] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Scholars have debated whether the Countess Livia da Porto Thiene, who stands with her daughter in a doorway in a portrait by this artist, is pregnant or not. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paolo Veronese [or Paolo Caliari]):
    Name this Italian artist, who depicted a group of musicians seated below Jesus in his massive canvas The Wedding at Cana.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Veronese was forced by the Church to rename his painting of this scene Feast in the House of Levi. In Leonardo's version, Judas sits cast in shadow and spills a salt cellar.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea Palladio [or Andrea di Pietro della Gondola]):
    Veronese designed frescoes for a villa built by this architect for Daniele Barbaro. This architect's plan for an oculus over the portal of the church of San Giorgio Maggiore in Venice was not realized by the men who completed the building after his death.

[B14] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The facade of this building was completed by Vincenzo Scamozzi, working on a design from another architect. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Church of San Giorgio Maggiore [or Basilica of San Giorgio Maggiore]):
    Identify this building, whose white, temple-like facade was designed to be seen from the city across a gap of water. Tintoretto's diagonal Last Supper is located in this building.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio [or Andrea Di Pietro della Gondola]):
    This architect of the Villa Rotonda died before his work on San Giorgio Maggiore was complete. Thomas Jefferson heavily plagiarized this author of the Four Books of Architecture in buildings such as Monticello.
  Part 3 (ans: Witold Rybczynski):
    This Canadian-American architect wrote a monograph about Palladio titled The Perfect House. This onetime architecture critic for Slate also wrote Home: A Short History of an Idea and a microhistory of the screwdriver titled One Good Turn.

[B15] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The first chief residents of this building are depicted in statue form as Caesar and his wife; those statues decorate the sarcophagus of a chapel later added to this mansion by William Kent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blenheim Palace):
    Identify this country house designed in Woodstock, England, by then-novice architect John Vanbrugh, for the Duke of Marlborough.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    Blenheim Palace mostly avoided a popular style of English architecture named for this Italian, whose treatise The Four Books of Architecture was so influential that Thomas Jefferson abided by it for Monticello.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Adam):
    The popularity of the Palladian style in the British isles was further undermined by the elegant style invented by this Scottish architect of the Kenwood House and Osterley Park. He took into account furniture and other interior objects in his designs.

[B16] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Identify these authors of architectural tracts, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio or Andrea di Pietro della Gondola):
    This Italian, much admired by Thomas Jefferson, designed the Villa Rotunda according to principles laid out in his Four Books of Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    This man updated Vitrivuis's De architectura in the ten books of his De Re Aedificatoria. This polymath also wrote On Painting and developed a namesake cypher in his De Cifris.
  Part 3 (ans: Adolf Loos):
    This author of Spoken into the Void designed Prague's Villa Muller and a namesake bank building in Vienna, though he's best known for his 1908 work excoriating the Vienna Secession, Ornament and Crime.
