=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Palladio ===
(Questions where 'Palladio' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 14 found, 84 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 22 found, 66 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2023 CREEK+ (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Jefferson
  - A building named after this architect features an inscription that states "eternal hostility" is sworn "against tyranny over the mind of man." This architect, who called The Four Books of Architecture his "bible," is the dedicatee of that John Russell Pope building.
  - "The Lawn" and "The Rotunda" are parts of an "academical village" designed by this (*) Andrea Palladio-inspired architect.
  - Quarters for slaves were included in Mulberry Row, which was designed by this architect of the University of Virginia as part of his plantation, Monticello.
  - For 10 points, excerpts from the Declaration of Independence appear in a memorial named for what 3rd U.S.
  - President?

[TM2] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: architecture [prompt on design or aesthetics or art or structural engineering]
  - The question of why this discipline has accorded visual perception central importance is discussed in The Eyes of the Skin by Juhani Pallasmaa .
  - The theory that this discipline evolves on a logic independent from other fields is advanced in a 2011 book on its "Autopoiesis" by Patrik Schumacher.
  - Christian Norberg-Schulz explored a phenomenological approach to this discipline in Genius Loci, following another author's book discussing "psychological polarities" in this field.
  - Practitioner Cesare Cesariano  provided illustrations after Poggio Bracciolini  discovered a (*) classical manuscript of Ten Books on this discipline.
  - This discipline is discussed in Gaston Bachelard's Poetics of Space.
  - An essay on this discipline's "Seven Lamps" was expanded into John Ruskin's The Stones of Venice.
  - For 10 points, a treatise by Vitruvius discusses what discipline practiced by Palladio?

[TM3] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sir John Vanbrugh
  - This architect placed a black pyramid over the entrance gate to an estate that also features another pyramid designed by this architect's assistant.
  - Sibyls protect the entrances of a structure this architect designed for that estate's garden called the Temple of the Four Winds, which was based on Palladio's Villa Rotonda.
  - In an example of his "castle air" style, this architect formed a three-sided rooftop arcade by grouping all the chimneys of Kings Weston House at its center.
  - Despite having no training, this Kit-Cat Club member designed Castle Howard.
  - Like Christopher Wren, this man worked with Nicholas Hawksmoor, who designed the Long Library of a building from which this architect was banned due to his grandiose plans.
  - That building by this architect honors the Duke of Marlborough's victory in the War of the Spanish Succession.
  - For 10 points, name this English Baroque architect of Blenheim Palace.

[TM4] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: architecture [accept De architectura; accept I quattro libri di architettura or The Four Books of Architecture; accept Trattato di architettura or Treatise on Architecture; accept city planning or equivalents; prompt on art or equivalents]
  - In the title of a 1715 book on this discipline, Colen Campbell refers to himself as the "British" version of its foremost classical expert.
  - A treatise titled for this discipline by Filarete  describes Sforzinda .
  - A ten-book classical treatise on this discipline includes the dictum that it requires "firmness, commodity, and delight." A 1580 treatise titled for "The Four Books" of this discipline discusses the author's work in Vicenza .
  - Leon Battista Alberti adapted the only surviving classical work about this discipline, which includes a section on human proportions that inspired Leonardo da Vinci, and is by Vitruvius.
  - A book about this discipline, which Thomas Jefferson referred to as "the Bible," heavily inspired Monticello and is by Andrea Palladio.
  - For 10 points, name this main discipline of Sir Christopher Wren.

[TM5] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Doric columns [prompt on columns]
  - A large example of one of these features nicknames a wedge-shaped, postmodern building in Tokyo designed by Kengo Kuma.
  - Adolf Loos's jokey design for the Chicago Tribune building proposed turning its top half into a giant one of these features.
  - Vitruvius proposed adding half metopes to resolve a design problem referred to as these features' "corner conflict." Skeuomorphic (*) triglyphs appear directly above these specific features.
  - Examples of these features at the Temple of Hera I  at Paestum feature exaggerated entasis.
  - Palladio used these features in the ground-floor of his Palazzo Chiericati while he used a different, more ornamented feature on the second.
  - These features typically lined the exterior of stoas, rested directly on the stylobate, and featured circular capitals.
  - For 10 points, name these unadorned, load bearing features used in a Greek architectural order simpler than the Ionic and Corinthian.

[TM6] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Venice [or Venezia]
  - A church in this city has a tall, Roman-style temple facade overlapping a second, wider portico.
  - The facade of another building in this city features patterns in pink marble above a two-story loggia  whose arches combine Gothic and Islamic influences.
  - A church in this city is nicknamed the Church of Gold due to its ornate mosaics, which were likely originally created by Byzantine artisans.
  - A palace in this city is linked to an adjacent prison by the Bridge of Sighs.
  - This city is the site of Palladio's San Giorgio Maggiore.
  - For 10 points, name this city home to the Basilica San Marco and the Doge's Palace, as well as many canals.

[TM7] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christian Dior SE NOTE TO MODERATOR: Clearly enunciate "Hours" in "Waltz of the Hours".
  - This fashion house included the Palladio dress and Indian-inspired kaftan jackets in the Balmy Summer Breezes collection by Gianfranco Ferre.
  - This non-Louboutin fashion house superstitiously included a piece called 'Granville' in all its early collections, after the hometown of its founder.
  - (*) Carmel Snow coined the usual name of its first collection, which was officially called 'Corolle', and featured flower-like nipped-in waists and flaring skirts.
  - The creator of the 'New Look', for 10 points, name this French fashion house named for the surname of its founder, Christian.

[TM8] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Temptation of St. Anthony [or La tentacion de San Antonio]
  - This is the most famous painting which was entered in a contest to be featured in a film based on Maupassant's Bel Ami.
  - Some buildings and what looks like a human figure can be seen on top of the dark clouds at the top right of this painting, next to a pinkish tower.
  - This painting includes an homage to Bernini in the form of an obelisk with five grey spheres of different size embedded in it.
  - A nude woman holding her (*) breasts stands on top of a golden cup in this painting, which also includes the torso of a nude woman visible through the entrance of a Palladio-esque building.
  - In this painting, a parade of spindly-legged elephants and a horse is warded off by the title character, who holds out a cross.
  - For 10 points, name this Salvador Dali painting depicting the torment of a saint in the desert.

[TM9] 2016 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: architecture [or architectura; prompt on "design" or "building" or "buildings" or equivalents]
  - A treatise on this subject, which contains descriptions of the Sforzinda dedicated to Francesco Sforza and is preserved in an illuminated manuscript called the Codex Magliabechiano (MAH-lee-uh-bek-ee-AH-no), was written by the Florentine theorist Filarete.
  - The distinction between reasoning, or rationacio, and practice, or fabrica, is made in another treatise on this subject that preserves the story of Archimedes's discovery of the displacement method of testing the purity of gold.
  - A set of (*) "parametric" rules for this subject were set forth in a 1570 treatise that became popular in England after a trip taken by the Earl of Arundel and Inigo Jones, and was admired by Thomas Jefferson.
  - Leon Battista Alberti and Vitruvius wrote treatises on, for 10 points, what discipline, the subject of "four books" by Andrea Palladio that contain the tenets by which Palladio designed the Villa Rotunda?

[TM10] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Myron
  - A sculptural group by this artist is preserved on the Finley Krater, which depicts one figure on the right, with his right arm lifted up in surprise over his head.
  - In the 18th century, two marble torsos modeled after a bronze by this sculptor were restored as a Niobid in the Uffizi and as Diomedes with the Palladion in the Lansdowne collection.
  - An anonymous elegy in the Greek Anthology describes a statue by this artist of a youth "so full of life" running "on the tips of [his] toes"; that lost statue was of the Olympic victor Ladas.
  - The torso of a statue by this artist was restored by Monnot as a dying gladiator, who falls to his knees, holding himself up by his left arm and reaching backward and upward with his right.
  - A more complete copy of that statue by this sculptor is the Lancelotti, which depicts a man whose left arm crosses in front of his bent knees, while his right arm rises backward behind him, capturing a moment just before he hurls the object in his right arm.
  - For 10 points, name this Classical Greek sculptor of the Diskobolos.

[TM11] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Inigo Jones
  - One church designed by this architect uses four Tuscan columns to support a portico facing onto a piazza and market.
  - Another building by this man was designed as part of a palace for a king who determined it should be 'the biggest palace in Christendom'.
  - That building features a double cube room with a ceiling decorated by Rubens.
  - This architect deviated from the mathematical constraints of Palladio in a house he designed for Anne of Denmark, which was the first consciously classical building in Britain.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of St.
  - Paul's, Covent Garden; Banqueting House, Whitehall; and the Queen's House who is generally credited with introducing Palladian ideals to British architecture.

[TM12] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Villa La Rotonda [accept Villa Almerico Capra before "Almerico"; accept Villa Almerico Capra] [2]
  - The plan for this building's dome changed from a hemisphere to a flatter shape with an oculus, which itself was later covered by a cupola.
  - This building's architect stated it has "from every part most exquisite views," giving "the appearance of a grand theater," and he classified it as a palace because of its proximity to the city.
  - Small rooms flanking two of this building's entrances break its symmetry.
  - A service corridor designed by Vincenzo Scamozzi is adjacent to this building, whose rooms all receive sunlight because it is oriented at 45 degrees from the cardinal (*) directions.
  - The Portico of Octavia inspired the striking outer features of this building, which follows the principles of the Four Books of Architecture.
  - An inspiration for Monticello, this building was built for Paolo Almerico and contains a circular room at the center of a square, on each of whose sides a staircase leads to the grounds.
  - For 10 points, name this temple-like house with four iconic porticos, designed by Andrea Palladio.

[TM13] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Triumphal Arches
  - Andrea Palladio was commissioned to create a work of this type to commemorate a visit Henry III made to Venice in 1574.
  - Pius IX used a Roman model for one of these objects that was constructed for the Feast of the Birth of the Virgin in 1849.
  - One of these objects made from marble was constructed by John Nash and now resides on Park Lane in London.
  - Charles Percier and Pierre-Francois Therese designed one of these objects that contains a Francois (*) Rude sculpture where a winged figure points soldiers onward titled The Departure of the Volunteers.
  - That example of one of these objects was inspired by a Roman one built under Septimius Severus and was finished in 1808 under Napoleon.
  - For 10 points, name these architectural works erected by Titus and Constantine following military victories.

[TM14] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Jefferson
  - This architect collaborated with Charles-Louis Clerisseau to design a building that replicated the Maison Carree.
  - Another of his works contains a great clock in the entrance hall, which has an exterior face with only one hand.
  - Many of this man's designs eschewed grand staircases for suppressed ones.
  - One building designed by this architect of Poplar Forest contained a series of extra quarters at Mulberry Row.
  - Another of his designs was influence by the Hotel de Salm, which he visited during his time in (*) Paris.
  - That work has a west front portico with a skylight-studded octagonal dome, and was heavily influenced by Palladio.
  - For 10 points, name this architect who designed several buildings at the University of Virginia, as well as his own mansion, Monticello.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This university was the first to have an engineering and applied sciences department in the United States. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: University of Virginia [or UVA]):
    Name this university that is home to a Meijin Yoon-designed memorial dedicated to such people as Isabella Gibbons, who helped build buildings in its "Academical Village." This university is located on the traditional lands of the Monacan Nation.
  Part 2 (ans: Monticello):
    The founder of the University of Virginia, Thomas Jefferson, lived at this plantation house inspired by the work of architect Andrea Palladio in the Piedmont region.
  Part 3 (ans: Union College):
    The design of "The Academical Village" was inspired by Joseph-Jacques Ramee's extensive planning for this college, which was the first non-denominational institution for higher learning in the United States.

[BM2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For a "basilica" in this city, an architect active there designed a series of tripartite, arched exteriors for its loggia that have become "windows" alternatively named for that architect or Sebastiano Serlio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vicenza [or Vicensa]):
    Name this city home to a theater completed by Vincenzo Scamozzi, whose scenery uses trompe l'oeil ("tromp LOY") to depict streets receding from its stage. That theater's original architect met his mentor Gian Giorgio Trissino in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio [or Andrea di Pietro della Gondola]):
    The Teatro Olimpico, and many other buildings in Vicenza, were designed by this architect. Thomas Jefferson's design for Monticello was inspired by this architect's Villa La Rotonda.
  Part 3 (ans: Vitruvius [prompt on Vitruvian Man]):
    Palladio is called the "architect of Vicenza" in Daniele Barbaro's introduction to this man's writings, which Palladio illustrated. His writings inspired Leonardo's drawing of a man with ideal body proportions.

[BM3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Colen Campbell's preface to a book named for [this man] Brittanicus praises Andrea Palladio as "the best of the moderns" and laments Italy's embrace of Baroque architecture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vitruvius):
    Name this Roman architect and engineer who wrote the ten volume De Architectura. He created a system of proportions based on the square and circle formed by a man's outstretched limbs.
  Part 2 (ans: Inigo Jones):
    Campbell's intro praises the Palladian designs of this architect, who designed the Banqueting House at Whitehall as a double cube, as well as the Queen's House.
  Part 3 (ans: Chiswick House [accept Chiswick House Gardens]):
    The Villa Rotonda inspired this neo-Palladian English estate built by Lord Burlington. William Kent's successive plans for this estate's gardens transitioned from the French formal style into an early example of English landscape gardens.

[BM4] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2015, this man became the first Welsh composer to be knighted. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Karl Jenkins):
    Name this composer of The Armed Man: A Mass for Peace. This composer's most famous works include "Adiemus" and "Palladio," which became iconic advertisement music for Delta Airlines and the diamond company De Beers, respectively.
  Part 2 (ans: minimalism [accept word forms]):
    Jenkins's style incorporates elements of both jazz and this style named for its use of very limited musical materials, often involving long drones or literal repetition. John Adams was a key innovator of this style.
  Part 3 (ans: Steve Reich):
    This minimalist composer used his characteristic "phasing" technique in works like It's Gonna Rain. His history-inspired pieces for tape recording and string quartet include Different Trains about the Holocaust and WTC 9/11.

[BM5] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first section of this treatise devises "rule-sets" that are divided into "parametric objects" and "parametric formulas." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Four Books of Architecture [or I quattro libri dell'architettura]):
    Name this 1570 treatise that includes sections on city planning and the five classical orders, as well as blueprints of its author's own designs. This treatise ends with detailed descriptions of 26 Roman temples.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    This Venetian Renaissance architect wrote The Four Books of Architecture. This architect's namesake style, exemplified by his Villa Capra and Villa Godi, inspired Thomas Jefferson's design for Monticello.
  Part 3 (ans: domes):
    Palladio's Villa Capra is also known as La Rotonda for its large central hall, which is covered by one of these features. Brunelleschi used an octagonal design for a massive one of these structures atop Florence's cathedral.

[BM6] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building features Ionic and Composite order pilasters and alternating segmental and triangular pediments over its first-floor windows. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Banqueting House at Whitehall Palace [prompt on Whitehall Palace]):
    Name this building designed by Inigo ("IN-uh-go") Jones that introduced the style of Palladio to England.
  Part 2 (ans: Chrisopher Wren):
    This later London architect used a similar architectural vocabulary including double Corinthian columns for his redesign of St. Paul's Cathedral after the Great Fire of London in 1666.
  Part 3 (ans: St Mary-le-Bow):
    Wren blended Baroque elements like doubled pilasters and a Corinthian colonnade with Gothic forms in the steeple for this other London building, which he also redesigned after the Great Fire.

[BM7] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This architect built on the geometric principles of Alberti for his design of the monastery church of San Giorgio Maggiore. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio [accept Andrea di Pietro della Gondola]):
    Name this influential architect who used a floor plan of a circle inside two larger squares for his design of the Villa Rotunda. One of his patron's, the scholar Giangiorgio Trissino nicknamed him for the Greek Goddess of Wisdom.
  Part 2 (ans: Pantheon):
    Palladio's design for the Villa Rotunda was inspired by the rotunda from this former temple in Rome. The portico of this landmark features sixteen granite Corinthian columns.
  Part 3 (ans: four):
    Palladio's major treatise is titled for this many books of architecture. This number is one more than the number of classical Greek architectural orders.

[BM8] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Mythology
     Leadin: An object of this name was washed in the yearly Plynteria and was said to have fallen from the sky in Athens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palladium [or Palladion; do not accept or prompt on "Pallas"]):
    Give the name of that cult statue of Athena. Troy was legendarily protected by a wooden statue of the same name, which was made by Athena to depict a companion whose name she took as an epithet.
  Part 2 (ans: Erechtheum [or Erechtheion] (It is named for Erechtheus.)):
    The Palladion was housed in this temple which was dedicated to both Athena and Poseidon and, like the Parthenon, was built under Pericles' leadership. It is named for a king of Athens who was identified with Poseidon.
  Part 3 (ans: Hephaestus [or Hephaistos]):
    Near the Erechtheum was a shrine to this Greek god, who used an axe to split open Zeus's head so Athena could be born. He serves as the gods' blacksmith.

[BM9] 2019 Prison Bowl (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Let's revive Rome! (Sort of.) For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    Name this neoclassical Italian architect known for his namesake symmetrical villas. He wrote The Four Books of Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Monticello):
    Thomas Jefferson was highly influenced by Palladio when designing this Charlottesville, Virginia estate.
  Part 3 (ans: National Historic Landmark [accept NHL]):
    Monticello is designated by the Secretary of the Interior as one of these sites of historical importance. All of these sites are on the National Register of Historic Places, but only some 2,500 out of 90,000 sites on the National Register are designated as one of these these.

[BM10] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect designed the Church of San Giorgio Maggiore (mah-JOH-ray) on an island in Venice. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    Name this Italian architect who designed many country homes, such as the Villa Barbaro in Treviso. He wrote Four Books on Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Jefferson):
    Palladio's Four Books on Architecture were studied by this American architect, who drew inspiration from them to design his personal residence, Monticello.
  Part 3 (ans: Vicenza (vee-CHENT-sah) [or Vicetia or Vincentia]):
    Many of Palladio's buildings, such as the Villa La Rotonda and the Santa Maria Nova, can be found in this city, which houses over 20 of Palladio's buildings. It was turned into a UNESCO World Heritage site to commemorate Palladio's works.

[BM11] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This white stone mansion on the Brenta Riviera has a raised front portico that can be accessed through twin side stone stairways. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Villa Foscari):
    Identify this building that is also known as La Malcontenta, due to the legend that the spouse of its owner was locked up there when she refused to sleep with him.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    The Villa Foscari was designed by this Italian architect of the Villa Barbaro whose classically-derived style influenced Thomas Jefferson.
  Part 3 (ans: Venice):
    The Villa Foscari is located a few miles west of this city, which contains Palladio's monumental churches Il Redentore and San Giorgio Maggiore.

[BM12] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about everyone's favorite crazy seventeenth-century painter, Salvator Rosa, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Naples [or Napoli]):
    Rosa trained in this city, where Jusepe de Ribera spent the Italian part of his career. A century later, painters in this city were inspired by the discovery of the nearby ruins of Herculaneum and Pompeii.
  Part 2 (ans: landscape painting):
    Rosa's craziest and most "characteristic" paintings were of this kind, depicting the "wild" countryside of southern Italy. Poussin and Claude Lorrain were known for their idealized "pastoral" paintings of this kind.
  Part 3 (ans: Rudolf Wittkower [or Rudi Wittkower]):
    Rosa stars in Born Under Saturn, a book about artists' personalities co-written by this German-American art historian. He wrote extensively about Palladio in Architectural Principles in the Age of Humanism.

[BM13] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The facade of this building was completed by Vincenzo Scamozzi, working on a design from another architect. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Church of San Giorgio Maggiore [or Basilica of San Giorgio Maggiore]):
    Identify this building, whose white, temple-like facade was designed to be seen from the city across a gap of water. Tintoretto's diagonal Last Supper is located in this building.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Palladio [or Andrea Di Pietro della Gondola]):
    This architect of the Villa Rotonda died before his work on San Giorgio Maggiore was complete. Thomas Jefferson heavily plagiarized this author of the Four Books of Architecture in buildings such as Monticello.
  Part 3 (ans: Witold Rybczynski):
    This Canadian-American architect wrote a monograph about Palladio titled The Perfect House. This onetime architecture critic for Slate also wrote Home: A Short History of an Idea and a microhistory of the screwdriver titled One Good Turn.

[BM14] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building, which is sometimes named for the Capra brothers, was completed by Vincenzo Scamozzi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Villa Rotonda [or: La Rotonda, Villa la Rotonda]):
    Name this Andrea Palladio masterpiece best known for its four projecting porticos.
  Part 2 (ans: Monticello):
    The Villa Rotonda was an important influence on this Charlottesville, Virginia estate, which was designed by Thomas Jefferson.
  Part 3 (ans: Basilica di San Giorgio Maggiore):
    Palladio designed this church which sits on a namesake Venice island and has a bright white facade. Tintoretto's The Last Supper is housed in this church.

[BM15] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Vitruvius influenced the author of this treatise, which claims that dimensions should follow mathematical ratios also found in musical intervals, thus satisfying a universal mathematical order. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Four Books of Architecture [or I quattro libri dell'architettura]):
    Name this classic architectural treatise that lays out a series of construction rules and design rules. It was first published in 1570.
  Part 2 (ans: Villa Foscari [or La Malcontenta]):
    Andrea Palladio, who wrote The Four Books of Architecture, designed this villa with an exceptionally tall pedestal for the brothers Nicolo and Alvise of the namesake family. Its interior features frescoes by Giambattista Zelotti, who also painted frescoes for the Villa Emo.
  Part 3 (ans: Venice):
    Palladio operated primarily in this Italian city, whose notable buildings include the Doge's Palace.

[BM16] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Andrea Palladio, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Jefferson):
    Palladio's Four Books on Architecture was a huge influence on this self-trained American architect and statesman, who designed the University of Virginia campus and based his plantation Monticello on Palladio's Villa Rotonda.
  Part 2 (ans: Donato Bramante):
    Palladio's urban palazzi were inspired in part by this man's Palazzo Caprini. This man's most famous creation, located in the courtyard of the Roman church of San Pietro in Montorio, is the Tempietto.
  Part 3 (ans: Venice [or Venezia]):
    Palladio included two minaret-like bell towers in a church called "Il Redentore", which is located in this city. This city's other architectural highlights include many works of Jacopo Sansovino, the Rialto Bridge, and the Bridge of Sighs.

[BM17] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man depicted Abundance, Fortitude, and Fury in his decoration of Andrea Palladio's Villa Barbaro. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paolo Veronese):
    Name this Italian artist of the high style who painted Triumph of Mordecai for the ceiling of the San Sebastiano.
  Part 2 (ans: Last Supper):
    Veronese's rendition of this event included dwarfs and some drunk Germans. He had to rename it Feast in the House of Levi.
  Part 3 (ans: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Robusti]):
    Veronese's The Marriage of Cana was painted for the San Giorgio Maggiore, which is also the church that commissioned this "little dyer's" rendition of the Last Supper, shown from a diagonal perspective.

[BM18] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: It was described as "the solidest and least ornate" of the orders of columns by Sebastian Serlio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tuscan or Etruscan):
    Name this order of column which had both a base and a capitol in the style of a Doric capitol. Palladio championed the idea of this column style as representing core Italian tradition.
  Part 2 (ans: Terra cotta):
    While Greeks and Romans preferred to use marble and bronze in their sculptures, Etruscans more commonly used this material which was used to create an "army" for the tomb of a Chinese emperor.
  Part 3 (ans: Caryatid):
    This other type of supportive structure, which was notably visible on the ancient Acropolis, replaces a traditional column with a female figure.

[BM19] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building stopped being used for masques when it was discovered that smoke was damaging The Apotheosis of James I, a ceiling mural painted by Rubens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Banqueting House at Whitehall [prompt on "Whitehall Palace"]):
    Identify this British royal building at Whitehall erected in 1622 whose facade places four sets of Ionic and Corinthian columns within two sets of pilasters on the outer bays.
  Part 2 (ans: Inigo Jones):
    The Banqueting House at Whitehall is one of the few surviving buildings designed by this architect, who was heavily influenced by Andrea Palladio. His rectangular design for Covent Garden was inspired by the Place Royale in Paris.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    This other British architect worked with men like Robert Hooke to construct several buildings in the aftermath of the Great Fire of London. He's best known for constructing the new St. Paul's Cathedral.

[BM20] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect was influenced by Palladio when he designed the Banqueting House, Whitehall in a classical style. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Inigo Jones):
    Name this great English architect.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens):
    James I got this man to paint the ceiling of the Banqueting House by promising to knight him. After he got knighted and finished the ceiling, he infuriated James by going home again.
  Part 3 (ans: Queen's House):
    Anne of Denmark, the wife of James I, commissioned Inigo Jones to design this building in Greenwich. He put in a beautiful tulip staircase.

[BM21] 2012 Illinois Fall Tournament (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man was responsible for the Open Hand Monument in Chandigarh, a planned city he helped construct. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Corbusier or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret):
    Identify this French architect who designed the Notre Dame du Haut.
  Part 2 (ans: Towards an Architecture [or Toward a New Architecture, or Vers une Architecture]):
    Le Corbusier's "five points" were outlined in this book, which argues that the title discipline can be defined as the "aesthetics of the engineer."
  Part 3 (ans: Villa Savoye):
    This building of Le Corbusier is a white house elevated on supports in Poissy. It illustrates its architect's "five points" and was inspired by the Villa Rotunda of Palladio.

[BM22] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Rossini's setting of this hymn includes an often-excerpted "Cujus Animam." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stabat Mater):
    Name this Catholic hymn, which Giovanni Pergolesi scored for soprano, alto, and strings. Its stanzas are traditionally sung between the Stations of the Cross.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonin Dvorak):
    This Czech composer wrote his Stabat Mater after the death of his daughter Josefa. He also composed the American string quartet and the Slavonic Dances.
  Part 3 (ans: Karl Jenkins):
    This Welsh composer included the duduk, an Armenian woodwind, in his 2008 setting of the Stabat Mater. He composed a series of choral albums titled Adiemus, as well as his "mass for peace" The Armed Man and a suite named for Andrea Palladio.
