=== STOCK CLUES: Ibsen ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 69 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 31 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen [accept "The Quintessence of Ibsenism"]
  - A play by this author inspired the play The Greatest Event in Life by a member of the May Fourth Movement. [PWR]
  - For every thousand of this author's characters, there are "700 Philistines, 299 Idealists, and only one lone realist," according to an essay on "The Quintessence of [this author]-ism" by George Bernard Shaw. [PWR]
  - One of this author's characters will likely "fall into degradation," according to a 1923 speech by Lu Xun. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author waits (*) eight years for a "wonderful thing" to happen before realizing she has never had a serious conversation with her husband. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, Doctor Rank confesses his love for a woman whom he helps rehearse the Tarantella, and Krogstad blackmails Nora Helmer.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of A Doll's House. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen
  - In a play by this author, a character mocks his father's efforts to reconnect as a "tableau of filial affection" for the sake of his mistress Mrs.
  - Sorby.
  - Illusion is called the "stimulating principle" in a play by this author, in which a character's photography-related "Great Invention" is revealed to be a "life-lie." A character plays a "wild dance" on the piano in another play by this author, which ends with the exclamation "Good God! - people don't do such things." After Gregers convinces her to sacrifice the title animal in a play by this author, the short-sighted Hedvig shoots herself instead.
  - In another play by this author, Judge Brack blackmails the title character after she burns Eilert Løvberg's manuscript.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of The Wild Duck and Hedda Gabler. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 "Questions Based on Wikipedia Links Ophir Sent Me" (2023) | Diff: 10 | Social Science
     Answer: Scandinavia [or the Nordic countries; prompt on Northern, Western, or Protestant Europe by asking "which subregion of Europe?"] (Henrik Ibsen coined the term "Friluftsliv.")
  - The culture of this general region is satirized in the novel A Fugitive Crosses His Tracks, which presents the rules "You're not to think you are anything special" and "You're not to think you are as good as we are." Three countries of this region are in the top right of the yellow blob at the top right of virtually all editions of the Inglehart-Welzel map, including 2023's. [PWR]
  - A 19th-century author from this multinational region coined its ideal of "free air living." The (*) conformitarian "Law of Jante"  is said to govern the culture of this multinational region, whose cultural exports include a supposedly untranslatable ideal of "coziness" called hygge  and a genre of "noir" crime fiction. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this region whose countries practice a namesake "model" of social democracy. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 QUARTET (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen
  - An essay titled for a play by this author describes how the title play is "about the use that the male artist and thinker...has made of women, in his life and in his work; and about a woman's slow struggling awakening." One of this author's plays ends with a shout of "Pax vobiscum!" after a character explains that after the title action, "we find that we have never lived." In a letter to the Danish newspaper Nationaltidende, this author called an (*) ) alternate ending to one of his plays where the protagonist shouts, "Motherless!" and sinks to the floor "an act of barbaric violence." An essay titled for a play by this author, subtitled "Writing as Re-Vision,"is by Adrienne Rich. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author sings, "I am free as a bird!" and calls posing for the sculpture Resurrection a "self-murder-a deadly sin against myself!" before she and Arnold Rubek are buried by an avalanche.
  - For 10 points, name this author of When We Dead Awaken and A Doll's House. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: names [accept true names or secret names or royal names or throne names or regnal names; accept forms or manifestations or emanations; accept serekh until read; prompt on epithets or titles; prompt on hieroglyphs by asking, "What do those hieroglyphs represent?"] (Peribsen's serekh featured only the sha while Khasekhemwy featured both the Horus falcon and the sha, potentially indicating an equivalent patronage between Horus and Seth during his reign.)
  - The unusual presence of the sha on these things belonging to the pharaohs Peribsen and Khasekhemwy  may imply that Seth's cult was favored during their reigns. [PWR]
  - A horus falcon mounted a royal example of these things known as serekh, which is an enclosed, rectangular, niched palace facade. [PWR]
  - "The evil day on which nothing can be conceived or born" was one of these things belonging to Seth, who gave it to Horus for healing.
  - The nebti and Golden Horus were two of five of these things that made up the Royal (*) Titulary. [PWR]
  - The Litany of Ra recorded the god having seventy-five of these things.
  - Cartouches contained these things.
  - Isis crafted a poisonous serpent from spit, forcing Ra to reveal his "true" one of these things.
  - For 10 points, identify these things, regnal examples of which were used by pharaohs. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Scattergories (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik (Johan) Ibsen and (Johan) August Strindberg
  - One of these authors claimed that his crusade against the other "cost me my wife, children, fortune and career." One of these authors kept a portrait of the other in his study and called it "Madness Incipient." One of these authors contrasted the other's handling of two characters with Shakespeare's handling of Iago and Othello in an essay about "psychic murder." One of these authors attacked the (*) "swinery" of a play by the other, arguing that the protagonist should not be considered a sympathetic character because she lies to her husband and conceals her forgery. [PWR]
  - One of these authors wrote The Father as a response to a play by the other, arguing that Nora, and not Torvald, is the true villain of that play.
  - For 10 points, name these bitter rivals who were the preeminent 19th-century Scandinavian playwrights. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen]
  - A play by this author ends with a declaration about "the spirit of truth and the spirit of freedom." The protagonist of another play by this author gives a speech denouncing the "compact majority," which he considers to be antithetical to truth and freedom, and compares a party to a "sausage machine" that mashes different people together into mincemeat.
  - Mrs.
  - Busk reluctantly fires the daughter of that protagonist of a play by this author.
  - The main character's young son stows away on the dangerously unseaworthy ship the Indian Girl in a play by this author about a shipyard owner named Bernick.
  - In another play by this author, a report stating that the water at a newly opened spa is contaminated earns Dr.
  - Stockmann the hatred of the townspeople.
  - For 10 points, The Pillars of Society and An Enemy of the People are by what Norwegian playwright? [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen
  - Giorgio Armani designed the costumes for an adaptation of one of this author's plays, which Susan Sontag wrote for Robert Wilson. [PWR]
  - This author is compared to Percy Shelley in "The Two Pioneers," a section of a longer essay which imagines a community of a thousand people, 700 of whom are philistines, 299 of whom are idealists, and only one of whom is a realist. [PWR]
  - William Archer and Edmund Gosse were largely responsible for popularizing this author in the English-speaking world. [PWR]
  - The fate of one of this playwright's characters is imagined in (*) Elfriede Jelinek's first play.
  - George Bernard Shaw wrote a long essay about the "quintessence" of this playwright, who wrote a play which shocked audiences by ending with its main character slamming the door.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright whose most performed work has prompted much speculation about what happens after Nora Helmer leaves home. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen
  - Brian Johnston wrote that this author's final twelve plays constituted a single Hegelian framework, in his study titled for this author's Cycle.
  - Arthur Miller compared this man's plays to a "spiritual CAT scan" simultaneously depicting characters from within and without in his essay on this author "and the Drama of Today." A detailed analysis of this author's plays informs a savage critique of the "Womanly Woman" and other sacrosanct ideals of Victorian society, in (*) Shaw's essay about the "Quintessence" of his style.
  - This author's largely one-sided rivalry with August Strindberg was kicked off by the latter author criticizing the feminism of his play which ends with a woman slamming the door on her marriage.
  - For 10 points, name this author who depicted Nora Helmer's self-awakening in A Doll's House. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik (Johan) Ibsen
  - In one of this writer's plays, a young man cries "I don't want to work!
  - I just want to live, live, live!" before revealing to his parents he is in a relationship with the young widow Fanny Wilton.
  - This author created a character who wishes that a tiny crack in a chimney wall would cause a woman's house to burn down. [PWR]
  - The title character of a play by this man is a banker who has lived in his attic since his imprisonment for embezzlement. [PWR]
  - He wrote a play in which "tuberculosis of the spine" afflicts Dr.
  - (*) Rank.
  - In a play by this author, Hilda Wangel convinces Halvard Solness to climb a church steeple, from which he falls to his death.
  - For 10 points, John Gabriel Borkman and The Master Builder are plays by what Norwegian author of A Doll's House? [GIVE]

[T11] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen
  - One of this author's characters is rebuked by her sister for telling a guest that they are putting out flowers in celebration of their mother's birthday.
  - Another of this author's characters asks his daughter's old tutor Arnholm to come visit because he thinks that his wife is in love with him; his wife is frightened by imagining a sailor reproaching his beloved for infidelity because she was once married to an American sailor who fled after murdering his captain and who still holds a hypnotic fixation over (*) Ellida.
  - A girl created by this author travels from Lysanger to visit a man who fears the "younger generation" knocking at his door, and reminds him of his promise to build her a kingdom.
  - She later convinces that acrophobic man to climb a steeple, from which he falls and dies.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Hilda Wangel and Halvard Solness in The Master Builder. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 MGMT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen
  - In one play by this man, one character pushes to have The Indian Girl set sail even though he know the repairs to it are shoddy and that the ship will sink.
  - That character reveals that a theft for which he blamed his brother-in-law never occurred, and that he was the one having an affair with Dina's mother fifteen years ago.
  - This author of Pillars of the Community wrote a work in which one character who owns a photography business repeatedly refers to an unspecified "invention", and that character tears up a letter announcing a monthly income to be passed on to his daughter, whom he suspects of being illegitimate after his wife confessed to an affair with Hakon.
  - That daughter is told to perform a sacrifice of the title creature, but ends up shooting herself instead.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Wild Duck who wrote about Nora Helmer in A Doll's House. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henrik Ibsen
  - One character created by this author marvels at the pictures in English-language books like Harrison's History of London, which were left behind by an old sea captain who used to live in his room.
  - In another of his plays, the protagonist reasons that God has granted him a gift because he can profit from the burning of his wife's ancestral home.
  - One of his title characters imagines that her lover will die with "vine-leaves" in his hair, but he actually dies in a brothel run by Mademoiselle Diana.
  - In one of his plays, the housekeeper Gina admits an affair with Hakon Werle, who orders Hedwig to kill the wounded title animal.
  - He wrote a play in which Halvard Solness falls to his death from his own tower, and a play whose title character uses Judge Brack's two pistols to shoot herself.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of The Wild Duck, The Master Builder, and Hedda Gabler, a modernist from Norway. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Mrs. Patrick Campbell became famous after starring in this author's scandalous play as the "fallen woman" Paula, who kills herself after finding her stepdaughter's fiance was her lover. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Wing Pinero):
    Name this author of The Second Mrs. Tanqueray whose other plays include one about a reformed womanizer, The Gay Lord Quex, and the farce The Magistrate.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Pinero reconsidered The Second Mrs. Tanqueray as oversimplified after seeing this author's play Ghosts.
  Part 3 (ans: Our American Cousin):
    As an actor, Pinero appeared in this Tom Taylor play about the arrival of the uncouth Asa Trenchard in England. This play spawned mixed-up proverbs called "Dundrearyisms" and a line about a "sockdologizing old man-trap" which was known to produce loud laughter.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these performers closely resembling the German writer Thomas Melle is the only actor to appear on stage in Rimini Protokoll's play Uncanny Valley. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: robots [or androids]):
    Name this type of performer who interacts with four human actors in Pipeline Theatre's production Spillikin. The name of this sort of being was coined in a 1920 Czech drama.
  Part 2 (ans: Hedda Gabler (by Henrik Ibsen) (Meriwether's play is called Heddatron.)):
    Robot actors named Billy, Hans, and Brack-bot appear in Elizabeth Meriwether's 2006 adaptation of this play for a mixed human and robot cast. A pined-for ex-lover in this play is idealized as having "vine leaves" in his hair.
  Part 3 (ans: Oriza Hirata [or Hirata Oriza]):
    This playwright has experimented with robot performers in his plays I, Worker and the Sayonara series. This Japanese playwright pioneered what he calls "contemporary colloquial theater" in plays like Tokyo Notes and Citizens of Seoul.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Plays in this form produced conflict via the "quiproquo," in which two characters would misinterpret the same situation in opposing ways. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: well-made play [or piece bien faite]):
    Name this formulaic 19th-century dramatic genre developed by Eugene Scribe ("oo-zhen skreeb") and popularized by Victorien Sardou.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen; accept "The Quintessence of Ibsenism"]):
    George Bernard Shaw criticized the well-made play in an essay titled for the "quintessence" of this author, which laments that his play A Doll's House may be acted as a "melodrama or farcical comedy."
  Part 3 (ans: Dumas [accept Alexandre Dumas fils or Alexandre Dumas pere]):
    An author with this surname adapted his didactic novel The Lady of the Camellias as a well-made play. Another author with this surname drew on his African ancestry in the novel Georges.

[B4] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After an 1895 showing of this author's play Guy Domville, it was met with hissing from the gallery, leading it to show for just four weeks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry James):
    Name this playwright who wrote dramatizations of his novella Daisy Miller and his novel The American.
  Part 2 (ans: summer [or Summersoft; or Suddenly Last Summer]):
    After various theatrical flops, James tried again with a play starring actress Ellen Terry titled for this time period. A play titled for this time period centers on Catherine Holly, who accuses Sebastian of being gay.
  Part 3 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    After giving up playwriting, James helped Elizabeth Robins with writings about this author. This author's plays were popularized by Edmund Gosse and William Archer.

[B5] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Several of this author's characters are painters, including Lars Hertervig in Melancholy I and Melancholy II and the protagonist of the series Septology. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jon Fosse [Jon Olav Fosse]):
    Name this Norwegian novelist and playwright, who was awarded the 2023 Nobel Prize in Literature.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen [Henrik Johan Ibsen]):
    Fosse is cited as the second-most performed Norwegian playwright behind this author, who wrote about Dr. Thomas Stockmann exposing a town's contaminated baths in An Enemy of the People.
  Part 3 (ans: funerals [or funeral processions]):
    In Fosse's play Dream of Autumn, the Man is brought to the main setting to attend one of these events. The title character of Ibsen's Peer Gynt attends one of these events immediately before an auction when he returns home to Norway in the play's fifth act.

[B6] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: As this line of dialogue is spoken, the stage directions indicate the sound of a triumphant song of freedom sung by the protagonist's wife Maia in the distance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Pax vobiscum!" [or "Peace be with you!"]):
    Name this last line of dialogue in an 1899 play, the only line spoken by a mysterious Sister of Mercy. This line is prompted by an avalanche that kills a sculptor and his former muse Irene atop a mountain.
  Part 2 (ans: spa [or bath house; or baths]):
    The Sister of Mercy first appears trailing Irene in an Act I scene set at this type of location. In a play by the same author, a doctor gives a rousing speech in response to criticism of his article about one of these places.
  Part 3 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    The Sister of Mercy appears in When We Dead Awaken, the final play by this author of An Enemy of the People.

[B7] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Along with bells ringing and vases being thrown, this sound is constantly heard offstage during the second act of Georges Feydeau's A Flea in Her Ear. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: slamming doors [or door slams; accept answers describing a door being shut loudly or closed loudly]):
    Describe this sound. At the end of another play, this sound can be heard offstage after a "hope inspires" a character to mutter "the miracle of miracles-?", a line also translated as "the most wonderful thing of all...?"
  Part 2 (ans: A Doll's House [or A Doll House; or Et dukkehjem] (by Henrik Ibsen)):
    Nora tells Torvald that she "no longer believe[s] in miracles" before slamming the door at the end of this play.
  Part 3 (ans: August Strindberg [or Johan August Strindberg] (The first work is the preface to Miss Julie.)):
    A work by this author criticizes canvas stage doors for not being "capable of expressing the anger of an irate pater familias who... slams the door behind him." This author called Rebecca West an "unconscious cannibal, who has devoured Mrs. Rosmer's soul" in his essay "Psychic Murder (Apropos Rosmersholm)."

[B8] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A Max Beerbohm cartoon illustrates efforts by this man and Henry Austin Dobson to compose poetry in traditional French forms such as the ballade. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edmund Gosse ("goss") [or Edmund William Gosse] (The memoir is Father and Son.)):
    Name this author of the Cornhill Magazine essay "A Plea for Certain Exotic Forms of Verse." He may be best known for a memoir about being raised in a religious household led by a zoologist father.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen]):
    Working with William Archer, Gosse helped popularize this playwright in Britain by translating plays like The Master Builder.
  Part 3 (ans: Flaubert's Parrot (by Julian Barnes)):
    In this novel, Ed Winterton, a scholar working on a biography of Gosse, reveals that he burned a set of letters the title author wrote to Juliet Herbert. This novel is narrated by Geoffrey Braithwaite.

[B9] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In an interview with his ex-wife, an author from this country admitted that he had estranged many of his friends and relatives by depicting their private lives in his books. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kingdom of Norway (The two authors are Karl Ove Knausgard and Knut Hamsun.)):
    Name this country home to the author of the autofictional series My Struggle. Another author from this country wrote "new realist" novels like The Growth of the Soil and Hunger.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    This author characterized Norwegian literature after the sagas as "four hundred years of darkness." This Norwegian wrote plays like Ghosts and A Doll's House.
  Part 3 (ans: melancholy [or melancholia; accept Melancholia I; accept Melancholia II; accept The Melancholy of Resistance]):
    Norwegian author Jon Fosse is best known for two novels about the painter Lars Hertevig titled for this feeling. A Laszlo Krasznahorkai novel titled for this feeling features a circus with the world's largest dead whale.

[B10] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a play, a character in the late stages of this disease mutters "the sun, the sun" as his mother decides whether or not to euthanize him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: syphilis [congenital neurosyphilis; or syfilis]):
    Name this disease that afflicts Oswald Alving.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Oswald Alving appears in Ghosts by this Norwegian dramatist. Some critics believe that Hedvig's blindness is caused by syphilis in this author's play The Wild Duck.
  Part 3 (ans: black cross [prompt on cross]):
    In Ibsen's play A Doll's House, Doctor Rank leaves cards marked with this specific symbol to indicate his impending death from "spinal tuberculosis," a disease often held to be syphilis.

[B11] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character breaks off her betrothal to Simon to marry Erlend, who is later killed in a skirmish by a spear to the groin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kristin Lavransdatter [prompt on Lavransdatter]):
    Name this character who moves back to her parents' farm after their death. This character leaves that farm to tend to the sick in a convent at the end of her last appearance.
  Part 2 (ans: Sigrid Undset):
    This author chronicled medieval life in her historical trilogy about Kristin Lavransdatter, which consists of the novels The Wreath, The Wife, and The Cross.
  Part 3 (ans: Norway [or Kingdom of Norway; or Kongeriket Norge] (The playwright is Henrik Ibsen.)):
    Undset grew up in this country whose other authors have included Knut Hamsun and the playwright of Hedda Gabler.

[B12] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Jeanette Lee wrote a book titled for this author's "Secret" in which she claimed that this author's plays are based around central symbolic objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen] {The character is Nora Helmer in A Doll's House}):
    Name this author of a play in which a symbolic Christmas tree loses its decorations and its vitality as a woman's marriage to a banker deteriorates, culminating in her slamming a door in his face.
  Part 2 (ans: pistols [accept guns or firearms; accept pistoler; reject "rifles"] {The play is Hedda Gabler}):
    In a different Ibsen play, a woman takes solace in the fact that, though she cannot have a saddle-horse and her family has no footman, she at least can pass the time with these symbolic objects that used to belong to her father; later, the woman gives a former lover one of these objects as a memento.
  Part 3 (ans: a crutch [accept krykker] {The play is Little Eyolf.}):
    In another Ibsen play, Rita repeatedly claims to be hearing the Scandinavian saying this object "is floating." After a boy dies by following a Rat-Wife into the sea, only one of these symbolic objects is left behind.

[B13] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. In a play, a man claims that he chose to name this building after a "Captain" rather than a "Chamberlain" because the former seems less pretentious. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the orphanage from Ghosts [or the children's home from Ghosts; prompt on less specific answers that mention a building from Ghosts; do not accept or prompt on the "brothel" or "Sailors' Home" from Ghosts]):
    Name this building that the protagonist is convinced to leave uninsured, lest she seem doubtful of divine providence. It nonetheless burns down at the end of Act II.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Mrs. Alving dedicates an orphanage in memory of her late husband in this Norwegian dramatist's play Ghosts.
  Part 3 (ans: syphilis):
    Ghosts courted controversy for its frank depiction of this condition, which afflicts Mrs. Alving's son Oswald. Dr. Rank's "tuberculosis of the spine" in A Doll's House is generally considered to be a euphemism for this condition.

[B14] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This action occurs after Torvald stands up and says "The most wonderful thing of all--?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nora Helmer slamming the door [accept anything involving closing a door; prompt on anything involving Nora leaving her family]):
    Name this physical action that scandalized audiences when it happened at the end of an 1879 play. It signals the end of Nora's marriage to her domineering husband.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Nora Helmer slams the door in A Doll's House by this Norwegian playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: macaroons):
    At the beginning of A Doll's House, Nora demonstrates her independence by sneaking in some of these items that were forbidden by her husband. Later in the play, Nora gives Dr. Rank some of these things.

[B15] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Dag Solstad's Shyness and Dignity, a schoolteacher ponders a doctor in this play who proclaims, "If you take the life-lie away from an average person, you take away his happiness as well." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Wild Duck [or Vildanden]):
    Name this play whose motif of the "life-lie" inspired works by the psychologist Alfred Adler such as "Life-lie and Responsibility in Neurosis and Psychosis."
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    In The Interpretation of Dreams, Adler's colleague Sigmund Freud described dreaming of the word "norekdal," a combination of two character names from this author's plays The Wild Duck and A Doll's House.
  Part 3 (ans: his manuscript [accept anything indicating his draftpapers, or his book about the future]):
    Karen Horney ("HORN-eye") frequently cited Ibsen in books like Neurosis and Human Growth, which discusses the self-destructive behavior of Ellert Lovborg after he loses this prized object that Hedda Gabler burns.

[B16] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character hides a number of macaroons in her pocket when her husband enters the room and asks "Is my little squirrel bustling about?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nora Helmer):
    Name this character who forges her father's signature in order to obtain a loan to fund a trip to Italy.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Nora leaves her husband Torvald and their children in this Norwegian author's play A Doll's House.
  Part 3 (ans: When We Dead Awaken [or Nar vi døde vagner]):
    Though Ibsen is often considered an early feminist playwright, Adrienne Rich used this Ibsen play as a prime example of how male artists use women in an essay of the same title. In this play, a man refuses to consummate his relationship with his wife for fear of ruining his masterpiece, titled Resurrection.

[B17] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this man, Helene Alving purposefully depletes her deceased husband's wealth so her son will not inherit his money. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Name this playwright who wrote Ghosts.
  Part 2 (ans: A Doll's House):
    Ibsen is perhaps best known for this play where Nora shuts the door on her husband Torvald and her children at the play's end, leaving her middle class life behind her.
  Part 3 (ans: The Wild Duck):
    In this other Ibsen play, Hjalmar states that his daughter is both "his greatest joy and greatest sorrow" due to her impending blindness. Old Ekdal entertains himself in this play by hunting with Hjalmar as a way to reconnect with his past.

[B18] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem from this country warned against the rise of Nazism with the line "You must not tolerate so very well the injustice that does not affect yourself!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kingdom of Norway [or Kongeriket Norge; or Kongeriket Noreg]):
    Name this country where "Dare not to sleep" was written. Another poem from this country tells of a sailor who rescues an English nobleman who had earlier captured him for smuggling food to try to save his family.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen]):
    That poem, titled "Terje Vigen" ("TAIR-yuh VEE-gun"), was written by this author better known for plays like Ghosts and An Enemy of the People.
  Part 3 (ans: Knut Hamsun):
    Unlike Arnulf Øverland ("OH-vur-lahn"), the leftist author of "Dare not to sleep," this Norwegian author collaborated with Nazi Germany and notoriously wrote an obituary for Hitler calling him a "warrior for mankind." He wrote a novel chronicling Isak and Inger's development of their farm.

[B19] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One elderly member of this family relives his days as an accomplished hunter by shooting the small animals his son keeps in the attic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ekdal):
    Name this family, whose other members include Gina, a former domestic servant who it is revealed had an affair with her employer, and her daughter Hedvig, who is slowly losing her eyesight.
  Part 2 (ans: The Wild Duck [accept Vildanden]):
    The lies hanging over the Ekdal family are revealed through the meddling of Gregers Werle [ver-leh] in this play, which ends with Hedvig's suicide.
  Part 3 (ans: Henrik Johan Ibsen):
    The Wild Duck was written by this playwright of A Doll's House and An Enemy of the People.

[B20] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these types of buildings almost catches on fire due to Engstrand's carelessness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: an orphanage [do not accept "seaman's home"]):
    What type of building is named in honor of the deceased Captain Alving but was actually only built by his widow to deplete Alving's money so that his son, Oswald, would gain no inheritance?
  Part 2 (ans: syphilis):
    At the end of the play Ghosts, Oswald wishes to die to end his suffering from this disease.
  Part 3 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Ghosts is by this Norwegian author of A Doll's House.

[B21] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet addressed a "fierce half-brother, staring down from that simplified west" in "Orion." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adrienne Rich):
    Name this feminist American poet who wrote "Valediction Forbidding Mourning" and collections such as Snapshots of a Daughter-in-Law and Diving into the Wreck.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Rich's essay "When We Dead Awaken: Writing as Re-Vision" takes its title from this man's work. The play What Happened after Nora Left Her Husband by Elfriede Jelinek ("el-FREE-duh YELL-in-ek") follows up on this Norwegian's play A Doll's House.
  Part 3 (ans: Amiri Baraka [or Leroi Jones; prompt on Leroi]):
    One of Rich's ghazals tells this poet that "we are ghosts condemned to haunt the cities where you want to be at home." This one-time poet laureate of New Jersey wrote "Preface to a Twenty-Volume Suicide Note" and "In Memory of Radio."

[B22] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This action occurs after the woman who performs it goes into the back room, draws the curtains and plays a "frantic" song on the piano. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hedda Gabler's suicide [Must have both parts; accept "Hedda" in place of Gabler. prompt on partial answers involving suicide or shooting herself]):
    Identify this action, of which another character states "Good God! People don't do such things!"
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    Hedda Gabler commits suicide at the end of a play by this Norwegian playwright, who also wrote A Doll's House.
  Part 3 (ans: his manuscript [accept equivalents such as the handwritten draft for his next book]):
    After Eilert Lovborg loses this object, Hedda Gabler destroys it, then gives Eilert a pistol and asks him to promise that he will use the pistol to commit suicide beautifully.

[B23] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Norwegian plays, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Henrik Ibsen [or: Henrik Johan Ibsen]):
    Norway's most famous playwright is, of course, this author of A Doll's House and Ghosts.
  Part 2 (ans: euthanize him [or: descriptions such as give him an overdose of morphine, obvious equivalents such as helping him kill himself]):
    At the end of Ghosts, Helene Alving has to decide whether or not to do this to her syphilitic son Oswald.
  Part 3 (ans: Jon Fosse [or: Jon Olav Fosse]):
    Patrice Chereau directed a production of this man's play I Am the Wind. The 2010 International Ibsen Award went to this author of the play Someone Is Going to Come, who's possibly Europe's most performed living playwright.

[B24] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this play becomes crippled as a baby when he falls off of a table while his parents make love. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Little Eyolf [or Lille Eyolf]):
    Name this play in which the Allmers refuse the Rat-Wife, who leads the title character into the sea, where he drowns.
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen]):
    This playwright of Little Eyolf also wrote about Nora Helmer A Doll House.
  Part 3 (ans: Doctor Thomas Stockmann [prompt on Stockmann; accept Dr. Stockmann or Thomas Stockmann]):
    This title character of Ibsen's An Enemy of the People warns the town of the contamination of their local hot springs, earning the ire of his peers and his father-in-law, Morten Kiil.

[B25] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This structure was to be constructed in honor of the tenth anniversary of Captain Alving's death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the orphanage from Ghosts ):
    Identify this building that catches fire at the end of Act II. Pastor Manders had earlier recommended to Mrs. Alving that she leave this building uninsured to prove her "faith in a Higher Providence."
  Part 2 (ans: Henrik Ibsen):
    This Norwegian playwright included Pastor Manders and Mrs. Alving in Ghosts, and also penned Hedda Gabler.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosmersholm):
    In this Ibsen play, Rebecca West admits to Johannes that she drove his wife Beata to commit suicide by means of jumping into a mill's water wheel, located at the title estate.
