Athens	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Ancient Greek capital home to the Parthenon and the Acropolis, birthplace of the classical architectural orders.
Bauhaus	Modernism and the International Style	German design school (1919-1933) founded by Walter Gropius, fusing art, craft, and industrial design into modernist principles.
Beijing	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to contemporary landmarks like the CCTV Headquarters and Bird's Nest stadium alongside the historic Forbidden City.
Beijing, China	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to contemporary landmarks like the CCTV Headquarters and Bird's Nest stadium alongside the historic Forbidden City.
Buffalo, New York	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Site of Sullivan's Guaranty Building and Wright's Darwin Martin House, key early-modern landmarks.
Centre Georges Pompidou	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Paris museum by Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers exposing its structural and mechanical systems on the exterior, launching High-Tech architecture.
Chartres Cathedral	Medieval and Gothic Architecture	French Gothic cathedral renowned for its stained glass and mismatched spires; a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Chichen Itza	Global and Non-Western Traditions	Maya city in the Yucatan featuring the stepped pyramid El Castillo, the Temple of Kukulcan.
Columbus, Indiana	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Small Midwestern city renowned for its dense concentration of modernist buildings by Saarinen, Pei, and others.
Denmark	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Jorn Utzon, designer of the Sydney Opera House.
Donato Bramante	Renaissance and Baroque Architecture	High Renaissance architect who designed the Tempietto and began the new design for St. Peter's Basilica.
Frank Owen Gehry	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	American-Canadian architect of swooping, titanium-clad Deconstructivist forms; designed the Guggenheim Bilbao and Walt Disney Concert Hall.
Germany	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Birthplace of the Bauhaus and home to Mies van der Rohe before his emigration to the United States.
Gothic architecture	Medieval and Gothic Architecture	Style of pointed arches, ribbed vaults, and flying buttresses spanning medieval European cathedrals.
Hadrian's villa	Ancient and Classical Architecture	Sprawling 2nd-century retreat near Tivoli built by Roman emperor Hadrian, blending Greek and Egyptian architectural elements.
Henry Hobson Richardson	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	American 19th-century architect who pioneered Richardsonian Romanesque, marked by rounded arches and rusticated stone.
Hong Kong	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Dense skyline city home to I. M. Pei's Bank of China Tower.
I.M. Pei	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Chinese-American modernist known for crisp geometric forms; designed the Louvre Pyramid and the Bank of China Tower.
International Style	Modernism and the International Style	Term coined by Philip Johnson and Henry-Russell Hitchcock for the stripped-down, glass-and-steel modernism of Le Corbusier, Mies, and Gropius.
Istanbul	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to the Byzantine Hagia Sophia and its massive dome alongside Ottoman mosques with slender minarets.
La Sagrada Familia	Art Nouveau and Arts and Crafts	Gaudi's still-unfinished Barcelona basilica, famed for its organic tree-like columns and elaborate facades.
Los Angeles, California	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to landmark modern and postmodern works, including Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall and the Getty Center.
Lucio Costa	Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning	Brazilian urban planner who designed Brasilia's Pilot Plan, executed alongside Oscar Niemeyer's buildings.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Campus featuring Aalto's Baker House dormitory and Gehry's Stata Center.
Mexico	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to the Pre-Columbian pyramids at Teotihuacan and the modernist works of Luis Barragan.
Michelangelo	Renaissance and Baroque Architecture	Renaissance master who designed St. Peter's Basilica's dome and the Laurentian Library's Mannerist staircase.
Minoru Yamasaki	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	American architect who designed the original World Trade Center twin towers with a modernist, Gothic-inflected facade.
MIT	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Campus featuring Aalto's Baker House dormitory and Gehry's Stata Center.
muqarnas	Global and Non-Western Traditions	Ornamental, honeycomb-like vaulting technique used in Islamic domes and portals.
New York City	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Skyscraper capital home to the Seagram Building, the Chrysler Building, and the original World Trade Center.
One World Trade Center	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	Skyscraper built on the World Trade Center site following Daniel Libeskind's master plan, designed by David Childs.
Paris	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to the Eiffel Tower, Notre-Dame, and Renzo Piano's Pompidou Center.
People's Republic of China	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Rapidly modernizing country with landmark contemporary buildings like the CCTV Headquarters and Beijing's Bird's Nest stadium.
Philadelphia	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Kahn's Richards Medical Research Laboratories and Venturi's postmodern Vanna Venturi House.
postmodernism	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	Late-20th-century reaction against modernist austerity, embracing historical ornament and irony, led by Venturi and Johnson.
Rome	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to the Pantheon's dome and St. Peter's Basilica.
Santiago Calatrava	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Spanish architect-engineer known for skeletal, bird-like white structures; Valencia's City of Arts and Sciences, the WTC Oculus.
Scotland	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Charles Rennie Mackintosh's Glasgow School of Art.
Seattle, Washington	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Rem Koolhaas's Seattle Central Library.
Shigeru Ban	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Japanese architect known for humanitarian paper-tube and cardboard structures; Pritzker Prize laureate.
shingles	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Overlapping wood or asphalt roof and wall covering, defining feature of the American Shingle Style.
Spain	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Gaudi's Barcelona landmarks and Santiago Calatrava's skeletal structures.
St. Louis	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Eero Saarinen's Gateway Arch.
Staatliches Bauhaus	Modernism and the International Style	German design school (1919-1933) founded by Walter Gropius, fusing art, craft, and industrial design into modernist principles.
stained glass	Medieval and Gothic Architecture	Colored glass windows depicting religious scenes, a hallmark of Gothic cathedrals like Chartres.
stupas	Global and Non-Western Traditions	Buddhist dome-shaped monuments housing relics, found across South and Southeast Asia.
Teotihuacan	Global and Non-Western Traditions	Pre-Columbian Mexican city with the Pyramid of the Sun and Pyramid of the Moon along its Avenue of the Dead.
Texas	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Philip Johnson's Pennzoil Place and Louis Kahn's Kimbell Art Museum.
Towards A New Architecture	Modernism and the International Style	Le Corbusier's 1923 manifesto declaring "a house is a machine for living in," a foundational modernist text.
Vienna	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Otto Wagner's Secessionist architecture and the Hundertwasserhaus.
