Le Corbusier	Modernism and the International Style	Swiss-French pioneer of the International Style and Purism; designed Villa Savoye, Notre-Dame du Haut, and Unite d'Habitation; wrote Towards a New Architecture.
Frank Lloyd Wright	Organic and Regional Modernism	American architect of Prairie School and organic architecture; designed Fallingwater, the Robie House, and the Guggenheim Museum; ran Taliesin.
Renzo Piano	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Italian High-Tech architect who co-designed the Centre Pompidou with Richard Rogers; also designed the Shard and the Whitney Museum.
Zaha Hadid	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	Iraqi-British Deconstructivist known for flowing, parametric forms; designed the Heydar Aliyev Center; first woman to win the Pritzker Prize.
Frank Gehry	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	American-Canadian architect of swooping, titanium-clad Deconstructivist forms; designed the Guggenheim Bilbao and Walt Disney Concert Hall.
Japan	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Metabolism and critical regionalism; produced modernists like Tadao Ando and Kenzo Tange alongside a long wood temple tradition.
Rem Koolhaas	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	Dutch architect-theorist and OMA founder; wrote Delirious New York and S,M,L,XL; designed the CCTV Headquarters and Seattle Central Library.
Chicago	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Birthplace of the skyscraper and the Chicago School (Sullivan, Burnham); rebuilt after the 1871 fire, host of the 1893 Columbian Exposition.
Oscar Niemeyer	Brutalism and Postwar Concrete	Brazilian modernist who designed most of Brasilia's government buildings with sweeping reinforced-concrete curves; collaborated with Lucio Costa.
Philip Johnson	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	American architect-critic who coined "International Style"; designed his own Glass House and the postmodern AT&T Building; first Pritzker laureate.
Art Nouveau	Art Nouveau and Arts and Crafts	Ornamental, organic-line movement of the 1890s-1910s; exemplified by Gaudi's Barcelona buildings and Victor Horta's Brussels townhouses.
Louis Sullivan	Modernism and the International Style	Chicago School pioneer of "form follows function"; designed early skyscrapers like the Wainwright Building; mentored Frank Lloyd Wright.
Antoni Gaudi	Art Nouveau and Arts and Crafts	Catalan architect of Barcelona's Sagrada Familia, Park Guell, and Casa Batllo, in the organic Catalan Modernisme idiom.
Chairs	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Furniture designed by architects, including Mies van der Rohe's Barcelona chair, Le Corbusier's LC chairs, and Eames lounge chairs.
Frederick Law Olmsted	Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning	American landscape architect who designed New York's Central Park with Calvert Vaux; pioneered City Beautiful-era planning.
Norman Foster	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	British High-Tech architect; designed 30 St Mary Axe (the Gherkin), the Reichstag dome renovation, and Hearst Tower.
Alvar Aalto	Organic and Regional Modernism	Finnish architect and designer blending modernism with organic forms and natural materials; Paimio Sanatorium, Finlandia Hall.
brutalism	Brutalism and Postwar Concrete	Mid-20th-century style of raw exposed concrete (beton brut); associated with Le Corbusier, Louis Kahn, and Moshe Safdie.
columns	Ancient and Classical Architecture	Classical orders (Doric, Ionic, Corinthian) define column styles that originated in Greek and Roman temples.
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe	Modernism and the International Style	German-American minimalist of "less is more"; designed the Barcelona Pavilion, Seagram Building, and Farnsworth House.
Tadao Ando	Brutalism and Postwar Concrete	Japanese self-taught architect known for minimalist exposed-concrete buildings that manipulate natural light; Church of the Light.
Andrea Palladio	Renaissance and Baroque Architecture	Venetian Renaissance architect of symmetrical villas like the Villa Rotonda, codified in his Four Books of Architecture; namesake of Palladianism.
Barcelona	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	City filled with Gaudi's Catalan Modernisme landmarks (Sagrada Familia, Park Guell) and Mies's Barcelona Pavilion.
Chicago, Illinois	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Birthplace of the skyscraper and the Chicago School (Sullivan, Burnham); rebuilt after the 1871 fire, host of the 1893 Columbian Exposition.
Eero Saarinen	Organic and Regional Modernism	Finnish-American architect of swooping modernist forms; designed the TWA Flight Center, Gateway Arch, and Dulles Airport terminal.
Las Vegas	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Subject of Robert Venturi's Learning from Las Vegas, a foundational text of Postmodern architectural theory.
Los Angeles	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to landmark modern and postmodern works, including Gehry's Walt Disney Concert Hall and the Getty Center.
Moshe Safdie	Brutalism and Postwar Concrete	Israeli-Canadian architect famed for Habitat 67, a modular concrete housing complex built in Montreal for Expo 67.
Saarinen	Organic and Regional Modernism	Refers to Eero Saarinen, Finnish-American architect of swooping modernist forms; TWA Flight Center, Gateway Arch, Dulles Airport.
World Trade Center	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Original twin towers designed by Minoru Yamasaki; site later rebuilt under Daniel Libeskind's master plan with One World Trade Center.
architecture	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	General term for the art and practice of designing buildings, often invoked as a broad umbrella answerline for the whole field.
Brasilia	Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning	Brazil's planned capital, laid out by Lucio Costa's Pilot Plan and filled with Oscar Niemeyer's modernist government buildings.
Brazil	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to the modernist capital Brasilia and architects Oscar Niemeyer and Lucio Costa.
cathedrals	Medieval and Gothic Architecture	Grand Christian churches, especially Gothic cathedrals like Chartres, known for ribbed vaults and flying buttresses.
Cesar Pelli	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Argentine-American designer of skyscrapers including the Petronas Towers, a pioneer of postmodern curtain-wall towers.
Charles Rennie Mackintosh	Art Nouveau and Arts and Crafts	Scottish Art Nouveau architect-designer known for the Glasgow School of Art and distinctive ladder-back chairs.
concrete	Brutalism and Postwar Concrete	Key building material of Brutalism and modern engineering, enabling reinforced and precast structural forms.
domes	Ancient and Classical Architecture	Curved roof form perfected by Roman engineers in the Pantheon and revived in the Renaissance (Florence) and Byzantine (Hagia Sophia) traditions.
Finland	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to organic modernists Alvar Aalto and Eero Saarinen, whose Nordic modernism softened International Style rigor.
gardens	Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning	Designed outdoor spaces ranging from English landscape gardens to Islamic charbagh and Olmsted's American public parks.
glass	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Building material enabling curtain walls and transparency, central to Mies's Farnsworth House and Johnson's Glass House.
houses	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Residential building type exemplified by iconic modernist houses like Fallingwater, Villa Savoye, and the Glass House.
Jorn Utzon	Organic and Regional Modernism	Danish architect of the Sydney Opera House's sail-like concrete shells, a landmark of Expressionist modernism.
library	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Building type ranging from Beaux-Arts reading rooms to modern icons like Koolhaas's Seattle Central Library.
Louis Kahn	Brutalism and Postwar Concrete	American architect of monumental, light-filled concrete and brick buildings; Salk Institute, Kimbell Art Museum, Bangladesh's National Assembly.
Maya	Global and Non-Western Traditions	Mesoamerican civilization whose stepped pyramids and temples appear at Chichen Itza and Tikal.
opera house	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Building type epitomized by Utzon's Sydney Opera House and Garnier's Paris Opera.
Parthenon	Ancient and Classical Architecture	Doric marble temple to Athena atop the Athenian Acropolis, designed by Ictinus and Callicrates; epitome of classical proportion.
Villa Savoye	Modernism and the International Style	Le Corbusier's 1931 Poissy villa embodying his "Five Points of Architecture": pilotis, ribbon windows, roof garden.
Vitruvius	Ancient and Classical Architecture	Roman architect-engineer whose treatise De Architectura defined firmitas, utilitas, venustas and inspired the Vitruvian Man.
Yale University	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Campus with notable modern buildings including Kahn's Yale Art Gallery and Saarinen's Ingalls Rink.
airports	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Building type showcasing swooping modernist engineering, as in Saarinen's TWA Flight Center and Dulles terminal.
Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	City filled with Gaudi's Catalan Modernisme landmarks (Sagrada Familia, Park Guell) and Mies's Barcelona Pavilion.
Buckminster Fuller	Modernism and the International Style	American inventor-futurist who popularized the geodesic dome as an efficient, lightweight structural system.
China	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Rapidly modernizing country with landmark contemporary buildings like the CCTV Headquarters and Beijing's Bird's Nest stadium.
churches	Medieval and Gothic Architecture	Christian worship buildings ranging from Romanesque and Gothic cathedrals to modern designs like Ando's Church of the Light.
Daniel Libeskind	Postmodernism and Deconstructivism	Polish-American Deconstructivist of jagged, symbolic forms; designed the Berlin Jewish Museum and the World Trade Center site master plan.
Filippo Brunelleschi	Renaissance and Baroque Architecture	Early Renaissance architect-engineer who built Florence Cathedral's self-supporting dome using innovative herringbone brickwork.
Florence	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Cradle of the Renaissance, home to Brunelleschi's dome and the Uffizi Gallery.
Gothic	Medieval and Gothic Architecture	Style of pointed arches, ribbed vaults, and flying buttresses spanning medieval European cathedrals.
hotels	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Building type ranging from grand Beaux-Arts hotels to contemporary hospitality architecture by starchitects.
I. M. Pei	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Chinese-American modernist known for crisp geometric forms; designed the Louvre Pyramid and the Bank of China Tower.
Inigo Jones	Renaissance and Baroque Architecture	First major English classicist architect, introduced Palladianism to Britain; designed the Queen's House and Banqueting House.
libraries	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Building type ranging from Beaux-Arts reading rooms to modern icons like Koolhaas's Seattle Central Library.
Louis Henry Sullivan	Modernism and the International Style	Chicago School pioneer of "form follows function"; designed early skyscrapers like the Wainwright Building; mentored Frank Lloyd Wright.
Maya Lin	Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning	American designer of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial's minimalist black granite wall, chosen through a student design competition.
minarets	Global and Non-Western Traditions	Tall, slender towers attached to mosques, traditionally used to call the faithful to prayer.
Montreal	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Site of Moshe Safdie's Habitat 67 modular housing complex, built for Expo 67.
mosaics	Medieval and Gothic Architecture	Decorative tile technique prominent in Byzantine churches, from Ravenna's basilicas to Istanbul's Hagia Sophia.
Pisa	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Italian city famous for its Romanesque Leaning Tower, a bell tower that tilts due to unstable foundation soil.
Pompidou Center	High-Tech and Contemporary Architecture	Paris museum by Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers exposing its structural and mechanical systems on the exterior, launching High-Tech architecture.
reinforced concrete	Brutalism and Postwar Concrete	Structural material combining concrete with embedded steel rebar, enabling modernist and Brutalist forms.
Richard Meier	Modernism and the International Style	American architect known for pristine white modernist buildings; designed the Getty Center; member of the "New York Five."
St. Paul's Cathedral	Renaissance and Baroque Architecture	Christopher Wren's English Baroque London cathedral, rebuilt after the Great Fire with its iconic dome.
Taliesin	Organic and Regional Modernism	Frank Lloyd Wright's Wisconsin home and studio, later paired with the winter counterpart Taliesin West in Arizona.
The Netherlands	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Home to Rem Koolhaas's OMA and the geometric De Stijl architectural movement.
Abu Dhabi	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Gulf city hosting starchitect landmarks including Foster's Sheikh Zayed projects and Jean Nouvel's Louvre Abu Dhabi.
Alhambra	Global and Non-Western Traditions	Moorish Nasrid palace-fortress in Granada, Spain, famed for intricate muqarnas and stucco ornamentation.
Antoni Gaudi i Cornet	Art Nouveau and Arts and Crafts	Catalan architect of Barcelona's Sagrada Familia, Park Guell, and Casa Batllo, in the organic Catalan Modernisme idiom.
art museums	Cities, Materials, and Building Types	Building type showcased by Pei's Louvre Pyramid, Gehry's Guggenheim Bilbao, and Piano's Whitney Museum.
