=== STOCK CLUES: Absalom and Achitophel ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet used the phrase "Northern Dedications" to mock his rival's flattery of the Duke of Newcastle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    Name this poet of the satirical poem Mac Flecknoe, which sees his real-life contemporary Thomas Shadwell become the new ruler of the "realms of Non-sense." This author was the first Poet Laureate of England.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson] (The poem is "Song: To Celia.")):
    Dryden and Shadwell disagreed over the genius of this author, who wrote a love song that asks the title woman to "leave a kiss but in the cup / And I'll not look for wine."
  Part 3 (ans: Absalom and Achitophel):
    Dryden also wrote this poem in which the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury are satirized as the two title Biblical figures rebelling against David.

[B2] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet "stands confirm'd in full stupidity," and "never deviates into sense." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Shadwell):
    Name this "True-blue Protestant poet," who is satirized in a mock-heroic work beginning "All human things are subject to decay" in which he solemnly swears to remain dull and is crowned by the king Nonsense.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    In addition to mocking Shadwell in "MacFlecknoe," this poet wrote about Palmyra and Leonidas in Marriage a la Mode and described his conversion to Catholicism in "The Hind and the Panther."
  Part 3 (ans: "Absalom and Achitophel"):
    Dryden satirized the rebellion of the Earl of Shaftsbury and the Duke of Monmouth, represented as the two title Biblical characters rebelling against David in this monarchic poem.

[B3] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This poem begins with the line "in pious times, ere priestcraft did begin." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Absalom and Achitophel):
    Name this allegory that uses the story of King David to satirize the Popish plot and the Monmouth Rebellion.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration author wrote Absalom and Achitophel as well as MacFlecknoe.
  Part 3 (ans: The Hind and the Panther):
    After John Dryden converted to Catholicism, he wrote this work in which he compared the Quakers to hares and the Presbyterians to wolves.

[B4] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The second part of this poem lampoons Thomas Shadwell and Elkanah Settle as Og and Doeg. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Absalom and Achitophel):
    Name this political satire by John Dryden, which allegorizes Charles II as King David and represents Shaftsbury and Monmouth as the two title characters.
  Part 2 (ans: Nahum Tate):
    Dryden commissioned this man to help him write the second part of Abaslom and Acitophel. This English poet laureate wrote a more cheerful King Lear that outstripped the popularity of Shakespeare's until the 18th century, as well as the libretto to Dido and Aeneas.
  Part 3 (ans: George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham [accept either]):
    In Absalom and Achitophel, this author is depicted as the servant Zimri. He had angered Dryden by mocking his style in his satirical play The Rehearsal.
