=== STOCK CLUES: John Dryden ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 22 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 24 found, 72 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Dryden
  - In a dialogue by this author, Eugenius, Crites, Lisideius, and Neander debate the value of classical, French, and English drama, during which Neander dubs Shakespeare "the greatest soul, ancient or modern." This author coined the phrase "noble savage" in a heroic drama about the fall of the Emirate of Muhammad XII ["the twelfth"], a "Defense of the Epilogue" to which critiques (*) Ben Jonson for ending sentences with prepositions.This author of The Conquest of Grenada and an Essay of Dramatick Poesie fulfilled the classical unities by limiting the action to Serapion's festival for the male lead in his adaptation of a Shakespeare play that is thus set entirely in Alexandria. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of All for Love better known for such satires as "Mac Flecknoe." [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: georgics [accept The Georgics; accept Georgica; prompt on didactic poem until "didactic" is read; prompt on pastorals or bucolics or descriptions of poems to do with agriculture or farming; reject "eclogues"] (The first clue appears in The Life of Samuel Johnson; the 1697 translation is by John Dryden.)
  - After moving to the West Indies, James Grainger wrote a poem in this genre that James Boswell called a laughingstock for its line, "Now, Muse, let's sing of rats." A poem in this genre, John Dyer's The Fleece, was written during its 18th-century heyday in Britain. [PWR]
  - The most famous work in this genre inspired a poem in which readers are instructed on how to avoid being hit by chamber pots while walking London streets, John Gay's Trivia. [PWR]
  - An essay by Joseph Addison accompanied another author's 1697 translation of a poem in this genre that renders one line as "What cannot endless (*) labour, urged by need?" The idiom "tempus fugit" comes from the poem that names this genre, whose fourth book contains descriptions of bugonia in its extended discussion of beekeeping, an Aristaeus epyllion. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, what genre of didactic poems is named for a verse treatise on agriculture that Virgil wrote after his Eclogues? [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Vanity John Milton Packet (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Dryden
  - Jacob Tonson's edition of Paradise Lost printed Milton's portrait above this author's "epigram," which claims that Milton combined Homer's "loftiness of thought" with Virgil's "majesty." This author argued that John Donne's "amorous verses" fail because he "perplexes the minds of the fair sex with nice speculations of philosophy, when he should engage their hearts, and entertain them with the softnesses of love" in his Discourse Concerning the Original and Progress of Satire.
  - This author's enemies regularly embarrassed him by referencing youthful "heroical stanzas" he wrote commemorating the death of Oliver Cromwell.
  - This author wrote The State of Innocence, a pretty bad stage version of Paradise Lost, which was published the same year he became (*) Poet Laureate. [PWR]
  - T.
  - S.
  - Eliot's essay "The Metaphysical Poets" blames Milton and this other author for the 17th-century "dissociation of sensibility" which ruined English poetry.
  - For 10 points, name this author who made up for his praise of Cromwell by praising the restoration of Charles II in his royalist poem Astraea Redux. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Dryden
  - This poet's complaint about Ben Jonson's phrase "the bodies that those souls were frighted from" is probably the source of the prescription against using prepositions to end sentences with.
  - Matthew Prior and Charles Montagu parodied one of this author's poems using the story of the country mouse and the city mouse. [PWR]
  - That poem, which coined the term "blaze of glory," begins by describing an animal "immortal and (*) unchang'd." This poet was targeted in the satire The Medal of John Bayes by a Protestant poet who he described as "the last great prophet of tautology." A poem by this author notes "when fate summons, monarchs must obey" after starting "all human things are subject to decay," and satirizes Thomas Shadwell.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of The Hind and the Panther and Mac Flecknoe. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: John Dryden
  - In a prologue to one of his plays, this author claimed to be "weary of his long-loved mistress rhyme" and called himself "betwixt two ages cast / the first of this, and hindmost of the last." One of this author's plays includes a monologue which begins "When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat; Yet, fool'd with hope, men favour the deceit." This author was parodied as Bayes in George Villiers' comedy The Rehearsal.
  - One of his plays begins with Doralice singing "Why should a foolish marriage vow," and includes a subplot about Rhodophil and Palamede, who pursue each other's wives.
  - The title character of one of his tragedies is nearly poisoned by Nourmahal before reuniting with his lover Indamora.
  - In another of his plays, Hermogenes reveals that Leonidas is the rightful heir to the crown of Sicily, allowing him to overthrow the usurper Polydamas and marry Palmyra.
  - For 10 points, name this Restoration author of the tragedy Aureng-Zebe and the comedy Marriage-a-la-Mode. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet used the phrase "Northern Dedications" to mock his rival's flattery of the Duke of Newcastle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    Name this poet of the satirical poem Mac Flecknoe, which sees his real-life contemporary Thomas Shadwell become the new ruler of the "realms of Non-sense." This author was the first Poet Laureate of England.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson] (The poem is "Song: To Celia.")):
    Dryden and Shadwell disagreed over the genius of this author, who wrote a love song that asks the title woman to "leave a kiss but in the cup / And I'll not look for wine."
  Part 3 (ans: Absalom and Achitophel):
    Dryden also wrote this poem in which the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury are satirized as the two title Biblical figures rebelling against David.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Though predecessors in other languages included La secchia rapita ("la SECK-yah ra-PEE-ta") by Alessandro Tassoni, the first work of this type in English is usually said to be Samuel Butler's Hudibras. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mock-epic [or mock-heroic; accept heroi-comic]):
    Name this type of long poem that satirizes a trivial subject using elevated diction and epithets. English examples of poems in this two-word style include John Gay's Trivia and The Dunciad.
  Part 2 (ans: The Rape of the Lock):
    This mock-epic opens by describing a "dire offence [which] from am'rous causes springs." Sylphs led by Ariel fail to prevent the removal of Belinda's hair in this poem by Alexander Pope.
  Part 3 (ans: Mac Flecknoe (by John Dryden)):
    This mock-epic by a different author begins with the title character, "pond'ring which of all his sons was fit / To reign, and wage immortal war with wit," soon settling on a man who is "mature in dullness" and "stands confirm'd in full stupidity."

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this poem is anointed with "a mighty mug of potent ale" during his coronation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mac Flecknoe):
    Name this poem that asserts "All human things are subject to decay" to satirize the "True-blue Protestant" Thomas Shadwell.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    Mac Flecknoe is by this English Poet Laureate who mocked two nobles in Absalom and Achitophel. This author also wrote The Hind and the Panther and the Shakespeare adaptation All for Love.
  Part 3 (ans: acrostic):
    In Mac Flecknoe, Dryden advises Shadwell to retire to "some peaceful province in" the land of this type of poetry. John Davies' Hymnes of Astraea consists of poems in this form.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In 1693, this author produced an English translation of Juvenal's Satires. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    Name this first poet laureate of the U.K., who attacked Thomas Shadwell in the satirical mock-epic Mac Flecknoe. This author wrote Marriage a la Mode and "Absalom and Achitophel."
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Johnson [or Dr. Johnson]):
    This author described how "hope and fear, desire and hate, / O'erspread with snares the clouded maze of fate" in the poem "The Vanity of Human Wishes," which is subtitled "The Tenth Satire of Juvenal, Imitated."
  Part 3 (ans: Anna Laetitia Barbauld [or Anna Aikin]):
    This author asked "who their mingled feelings shall pursue / When London's faded glories rise to view?" in the poem "Eighteen Hundred and Eleven," which is often called a Juvenalian satire. This poet and educator wrote the collection Hymns in Prose for Children.

[B5] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Lucetta tricks Blunt by opening a trapdoor under the bed he's laying on, allowing her to take his money and clothes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rover [or The Banish'd Cavaliers] (by Aphra Behn)):
    Name this play in which two sisters go disguised during Carnival in Naples while the licentious Captain Willmore toys with the courtesan Angellica Bianca.
  Part 2 (ans: Susanna Centlivre [or Susanna Freeman; or Susanna Carroll]):
    Colonel Fainwell pretends to be invisible by hiding under a trapdoor to trick Periwinkle, one of Anne Lovely's four guardians, in this author's 1718 play A Bold Stroke for a Wife.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    A satirical caricature of Thomas Shadwell falls through a trapdoor at the end of Mac Flecknoe, a poem by this first Poet Laureate of England.

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these English authors of tragedies about Muslim rulers, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    The "Great Mogul" personifies virtue in Aureng-Zebe, and Boabdelin's death unites Almanzor and Almahide in The Conquest of Granada, two rhymed heroic tragedies by this first English poet laureate.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Massinger):
    Cervantes's writings on Algiers informed this author's tragicomedy about Paulina's captivity under the Tunisian bey Asambeg, The Renegado. He created Sir Giles Over-reach in A New Way to Pay Old Debts.
  Part 3 (ans: Delarivier Manley [or Delia Manley]):
    The newly-translated Arabian Nights inspired this author's "tragedy of state" about a vizier's daughter who opposes Sultan Almanzor, Almyna. This author wrote a satirical "secret history" of the Whigs in The New Atalantis.

[B7] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these targets of ire in Jeremy Collier's A Short View of the Immorality and Profaneness of the English Stage.
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    Collier criticizes this author of Marriage a la Mode and Mac Flecknoe for "making debauch'd persons his Protagonists" and for "making them happy in the Conclusion of the Play."
  Part 2 (ans: The Country Wife (by William Wycherley)):
    Collier criticizes the characters of Pinchwife and Lady Fidget in this comedy. In this play, Horner remarks that the churchman is the "greatest atheist," which Collier cites as an example of the abuse of clergy.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas D'Urfey [or Tom Durfey]):
    Collier quotes several "profane" songs from this author's Comical History of Don Quixote. This author, who collected bawdy songs in the book Wit and Mirth, wrote the play The Campaigners in response to Collier's attacks.

[B8] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Richard Steele complained about Will's Coffee House being "much altered since [this person] frequented it...where you used to see songs, epigrams, and satires...you have now only a pack of cards." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden (The work is Mac Flecknoe.)):
    Name this poet, a leader of the "Wits," who distributed Mary Chudleigh's poetry at Will's. While at Will's, Dean Lockier argued with this poet about a work in which Bruce and Longvil drop the title man down a trapdoor.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author went to Will's just to secure an introduction to Dryden. This author describes "coffee, which makes the politician wise" in his poem The Rape of the Lock.
  Part 3 (ans: William Wycherley):
    This Restoration dramatist lamented that "nor is Wills the Wits Coffee-House any more" after John Dennis left. Horner and Lady Fidget exchange double entendres off-stage in the "china scene" of this author's play The Country Wife.

[B9] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, the amateur astronomer Dr. Baliardo is obsessed with the moon and wishes to marry his daughters to lunar courtiers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aphra Behn (The second play is The Rover.)):
    Name this author of The Emperor of the Moon. A play by this author, which was based on Thomas Killigrew's Thomaso, depicts the amorous adventures of Florinda and Hellena at Carnival.
  Part 2 (ans: English Restoration [or Stuart Restoration; accept Restoration drama or Restoration comedy]):
    Aphra Behn was employed as a spy by Charles II during this period of English history. William Wycherly and William Congreve were other authors from this period that followed the Interregnum.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    This other Restoration author wrote about the Great Fire of London in his poem Annus Mirabilis. This poet also satirized the "true-blue Protestant Poet" Thomas Shadwell in the mock epic Mac Flecknoe.

[B10] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this text, Aesop comes across an argument between a spider and a bee, which he judges by observing that bees provide mankind with "sweetness and light." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Battle of the Books"):
    Name this satire of the Quarrel of the Ancients and the Moderns, in which classical and contemporary writers come to life and go to war in a library.
  Part 2 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    This Irish satirist wrote in favor of the "Ancients" against the "Moderns" in "The Battle of the Books," which he published with A Tale of a Tub.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    "The Battle of the Books" especially satirizes this critic, who receives a helmet nine times too big for him in an armor exchange with Virgil. He weighed in on the ancients-versus-moderns issue in his Essay of Dramatic Poesy.

[B11] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: John Dennis wrote a defence of this play that notes the similarity between a rakish character and Wilmot, Earl of Rochester. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Man of Mode):
    Name this play, which begins with an attempted seduction being interrupted by an orange seller. The song 'How charming Phyllis how fair!' is sung at a party in this play.
  Part 2 (ans: Restoration):
    Man of Mode is an example of a type of drama named for this period of English history. Other dramas named for this period include The Country Wife and The Rover.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    The themes of Man of Mode are reused in Mr. Limberham, a play by this author that was only performed three times. More successful plays by this author include one in which Serapion hosts a festival to celebrate Mark Antony, All For Love, as well as Marriage a la Mode.

[B12] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem compares this author to Nisus who "fell upon the slippery place" and calls him "Marcellus of our tongue." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Oldham ("OLD-um") [accept Mr. Oldham; accept "To the Memory of Mr. Oldham"]):
    Name this poet who wrote the Juvenalian satires "Against the Jesuits" and "Upon a Woman Who by Her Falsehood and Scorn Was the Death of My Friend." A 1684 elegy written (emphasize) about this poet calls him "too little, and too lately known."
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    "To the Memory of Mr. Oldham" was written by this English poet who also wrote Absalom and Achitophel and Mac Flecknoe.
  Part 3 (ans: "hail and farewell" [or ave atque vale]):
    The fourth-to-last line of Dryden's "To the Memory of Mr. Oldham" employs this three-word phrase common in elegies. The Latin form of this three-word phrase closes Catullus 101. You may give either the Latin or English version of this phrase.

[B13] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This three-part poem includes a fable about the Swallows, who are convinced to hibernate instead of migrating. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hind and the Panther"):
    Name this allegorical poem that introduces different religious denominations in its first part. This poem references James II as a lion who protects a "milk white" creature "immortal and unchanged."
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration-era writer of "The Hind and the Panther" also satirized the Earl of Shaftesbury and Duke of Monmouth's claim to power in the poem "Absalom and Achitophel."
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    In the mock-epic Mac Flecknoe, Dryden aired out a dispute with Thomas Shadwell over "their different estimates of the genius of" this writer. He wrote the poem "To Celia" and the plays Volpone and The Alchemist.

[B14] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about translations of the Aeneid.
  Part 1 (ans: blank verse):
    The Earl of Surrey's partial translation of the Aeneid is the earliest-attested usage of this type of poetry in English literature. This term typically refers to poetry written in unrhymed iambic pentameter.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    A landmark English translation of the Aeneid, packed with such awful heroic couplets as "Two gates the silent house of Sleep adorn; / Of polish'd iv'ry this, that of transparent horn," was made by this Restoration poet of "MacFlecknoe" and Absalom and Achitophel.
  Part 3 (ans: spelling Virgil's name with an i instead of an e [accept anything that suggests "Virgil" instead of "Vergil." The poplar-tree in Latin is called virga]):
    Sarah Ruden's translation explicitly rejects this orthographic choice in the tradition of Virgil studies, which may acknowledge the legend that Virgil's mother planted a poplar-tree to mark her son's birthplace.

[B15] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet "stands confirm'd in full stupidity," and "never deviates into sense." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Shadwell):
    Name this "True-blue Protestant poet," who is satirized in a mock-heroic work beginning "All human things are subject to decay" in which he solemnly swears to remain dull and is crowned by the king Nonsense.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    In addition to mocking Shadwell in "MacFlecknoe," this poet wrote about Palmyra and Leonidas in Marriage a la Mode and described his conversion to Catholicism in "The Hind and the Panther."
  Part 3 (ans: "Absalom and Achitophel"):
    Dryden satirized the rebellion of the Earl of Shaftsbury and the Duke of Monmouth, represented as the two title Biblical characters rebelling against David in this monarchic poem.

[B16] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the satirical poem "Mac Flecknoe," for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Shadwell):
    The poem mocks this man, who is referred to as "the True Blue Protestant Poet" in the full title, and as "the last great prophet of tautology" in the satire.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This author of "Mac Flecknoe" reworked the story of Antony and Cleopatra in the play All for Love.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin "Ben" Jonson):
    Part of the reason Dryden and Shadwell disagreed was because Shadwell fancied himself an heir to this other English author, whose comedic plays included Volpone and The Alchemist.

[B17] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's "Alexander's Feast" inspired the libretto for Handel's oratorio of the same name, and he was named England's first Poet Laureate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    Name this poet who wrote a poem in decasyllabic quatrains that chronicles various battles from the Second Anglo-Dutch War and is preceded by a letter to his brother-in-law Robert Howard.
  Part 2 (ans: London):
    Dryden's Annus Mirabilis chronicles the Great Fire that broke out in this city in 1666, and it was written while the author sought to escape the Great Plague that afflicted this city the same year.
  Part 3 (ans: The Hind and the Panther: A Poem, in Three Parts):
    This allegorical poem by Dryden begins by describing a "milk-white" creature who "fear'd no danger, for she knew no sin." Its two title animals represent the Catholic Church and the Anglican Church.

[B18] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a dramatic work by this author, the playwright Mr. Puff explains that the best scene in his play is one in which an actor enters the stage, sits down, comes forward, shakes his head, and then leaves. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan [or Richard Brinsley Butler Sheridan]):
    Name this author of The Critic, in which actors rehearse a play-within-a-play called The Spanish Armada. His other plays include The Rivals and The School for Scandal.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    George Villiers's play The Rehearsal uses the character of Bayes to satirize this author, who wrote The Conquest of Grenada. In retaliation, this man portrayed Villiers as Zimri in one of his poems.
  Part 3 (ans: Michael Frayn):
    In this contemporary playwright's Noises Off, Dotty Otley and Brooke Ashton rehearse a bedroom farce directed by Lloyd Dallas. His other plays include Democracy.

[B19] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington" and "Charge of the Light Brigade" were both written by a holder of this office. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom):
    Name this honorary literary position in the United Kingdom, holders of which are expected to write poetry for important national events. Alfred Tennyson had this role for 42 years, and Ted Hughes had this role for 14 years.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This first official poet laureate under Charles II received an annual "butt of Canary wine" along with his monetary salary. His works include Annus Mirabilis and the satirical Mac Flecknoe.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    This current British poet laureate is the first woman, Scot, or openly LGBT person to hold the position. She wrote from the perspective of an artist's model in "Standing Female Nude," which also titles her first collection.

[B20] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Dolabella muses that "men are but children of a larger growth" upon being banished by his friend and romantic rival. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: All for Love):
    Name this reworking of Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra, in which the aides Alexas and Ventidius try to separate the lovers.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This first official poet laureate and author of All for Love allegorized contemporary England in his long poems The Hind and the Panther and Absalom and Achitophel, and poked fun at Thomas Shadwell in "MacFlecknoe."
  Part 3 (ans: Sir William Davenant [or William D'Avenant]):
    Dryden worked with this godson of Shakespeare on an adaptation of The Tempest titled The Enchanted Island. This author wrote the libretto to the first English opera, The Siege of Rhodes, and did not finish his epic poem Gondibert.

[B21] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The subject of this poem is advised to "choose for thy command / Some peaceful province in acrostic land", where he will be able to "torture one poor word ten thousand ways". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mac Flecknoe; or, A satyr upon the True-Blew-Protestant Poet, T.S."):
    Name this poem that claims its subject, a rival poet, "never deviates into sense". It opens with the lines "All human things are subject to decay, / And, when fate summons, monarchs must obey".
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    Ironically, Thomas Shadwell, the subject of this man's poem "Mac Flecknoe", succeeded him as Poet Laureate. This British satirist also wrote "Absalom and Achitophel" and "The Hind and the Panther."
  Part 3 (ans: Sir William Davenant):
    Dryden's predecessor as poet laureate was this self-professed bastard son of Shakespeare. He himself bastardized many of Shakespeare's plays, including a shittier, but much more popular version of Macbeth.

[B22] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Written in heroic couplet, this poem can be read as a defense of Catholicism, as it was written after its author's conversion to that faith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hind and the Panther"):
    Name this long poem, the first part of which represents the various religious sects as animals, including the Presbyterians as a bear and Quakers as a hare, in addition to the two title animals.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    "The Hind and the Panther" was written by this Restoration poet. His other works include the drama Marriage a la Mode and his poetic reflection on the year 1666, "Annus Mirabilis."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Shadwell):
    Dryden's satirical poem "Mac Flecknoe" is an attack on this critic, a contemporary of Dryden's. His own works include the play The Virtuoso.

[B23] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, a rake named Dorimant dumps his mistress Loveit to continue seeing Belinda, whom he also dumps to marry Harriet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Man of Mode):
    Name this Restoration comedy by George Etherege, whose title character is the ridiculous Sir Fopling Flutter.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    This author of the Restoration comedy The Rover was the first woman to write plays professionally. She described a "royal slave" in Oroonoko.
  Part 3 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration author went into comedy with Marriage a la Mode and also wrote satirical poems like "Mac Flecknoe" and Absalom and Achitophel.

[B24] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One story told in this work is about a farm that is watched over by a tyrannical buzzard, while another story in it concerns a group of swallows who are convinced not to migrate, only to suffer during the winter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hind and the Panther):
    Name this work whose second part consists of a debate between its two title creatures, which represent the Church of England and the Roman Catholic Church.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This author of The Hind and the Panther satirized Thomas Shadwell is his "Mac Flecknoe," described the events of 1666 in Annus Mirabilis, and wrote at least the first part of Absalom and Achitophel.
  Part 3 (ans: Sicily):
    Dryden wrote about Leonidas and Palymra in his play Marriage a la Mode, which is set in this location. Leontes is the king of this island in A Winter's Tale, and it is also the setting of Much Ado About Nothing.
