=== STOCK CLUES: Mac Flecknoe ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 3 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Mac Flecknoe
  - This poem praises a man whose boat "the little fishes throng / As at the morning toast that floats along," although "toast" is actually referring to sewage.
  - A character in this poem describes preparing the way for another through "the lute I whilom strung, / When to King John of Portugal I sung." This poem references the play The Virtuoso when promising "Sir Formal's oratory will be thine," and when alluding to a prank that Bruce and (*) Longville play upon a king who ponders "which of all his sons was fit to reign" before giving a mug of ale and copy of Love's Kingdom to his even duller successor. [PWR]
  - The opening lines of this poem warn, "When fate summons, monarchs must obey" because "all human things are subject to decay." The "true blue Protestant poet" Thomas Shadwell is mocked in--for 10 points--what satire by John Dryden? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Though predecessors in other languages included La secchia rapita ("la SECK-yah ra-PEE-ta") by Alessandro Tassoni, the first work of this type in English is usually said to be Samuel Butler's Hudibras. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mock-epic [or mock-heroic; accept heroi-comic]):
    Name this type of long poem that satirizes a trivial subject using elevated diction and epithets. English examples of poems in this two-word style include John Gay's Trivia and The Dunciad.
  Part 2 (ans: The Rape of the Lock):
    This mock-epic opens by describing a "dire offence [which] from am'rous causes springs." Sylphs led by Ariel fail to prevent the removal of Belinda's hair in this poem by Alexander Pope.
  Part 3 (ans: Mac Flecknoe (by John Dryden)):
    This mock-epic by a different author begins with the title character, "pond'ring which of all his sons was fit / To reign, and wage immortal war with wit," soon settling on a man who is "mature in dullness" and "stands confirm'd in full stupidity."

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this poem is anointed with "a mighty mug of potent ale" during his coronation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mac Flecknoe):
    Name this poem that asserts "All human things are subject to decay" to satirize the "True-blue Protestant" Thomas Shadwell.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    Mac Flecknoe is by this English Poet Laureate who mocked two nobles in Absalom and Achitophel. This author also wrote The Hind and the Panther and the Shakespeare adaptation All for Love.
  Part 3 (ans: acrostic):
    In Mac Flecknoe, Dryden advises Shadwell to retire to "some peaceful province in" the land of this type of poetry. John Davies' Hymnes of Astraea consists of poems in this form.

[B3] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Richard Steele complained about Will's Coffee House being "much altered since [this person] frequented it...where you used to see songs, epigrams, and satires...you have now only a pack of cards." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden (The work is Mac Flecknoe.)):
    Name this poet, a leader of the "Wits," who distributed Mary Chudleigh's poetry at Will's. While at Will's, Dean Lockier argued with this poet about a work in which Bruce and Longvil drop the title man down a trapdoor.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author went to Will's just to secure an introduction to Dryden. This author describes "coffee, which makes the politician wise" in his poem The Rape of the Lock.
  Part 3 (ans: William Wycherley):
    This Restoration dramatist lamented that "nor is Wills the Wits Coffee-House any more" after John Dennis left. Horner and Lady Fidget exchange double entendres off-stage in the "china scene" of this author's play The Country Wife.

[B4] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's title character urges his son to quit writing plays and find "some peaceful province in acrostic land." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mac Flecknoe"):
    Name this poem addressed to the "True-blue Protestant Poet T.S." This poem's opening line claims that "all human things are subject to decay."
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration poet attacked Thomas Shadwell in his mock epic "Mac Flecknoe." He allegorized his conversion to Catholicism in "The Hind and the Panther" and also wrote plays like Absalom and Achitophel ("uh-KITT-uh-fell").
  Part 3 (ans: Poet Laureate [accept Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom]):
    Dryden and Shadwell were the first two holders of this government-appointed position in England, which composes poems for special events. In 2019, Joy Harjo took over the U.S.'s version of this position from Tracy K. Smith.

[B5] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The subject of this poem is advised to "choose for thy command / Some peaceful province in acrostic land", where he will be able to "torture one poor word ten thousand ways". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mac Flecknoe; or, A satyr upon the True-Blew-Protestant Poet, T.S."):
    Name this poem that claims its subject, a rival poet, "never deviates into sense". It opens with the lines "All human things are subject to decay, / And, when fate summons, monarchs must obey".
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    Ironically, Thomas Shadwell, the subject of this man's poem "Mac Flecknoe", succeeded him as Poet Laureate. This British satirist also wrote "Absalom and Achitophel" and "The Hind and the Panther."
  Part 3 (ans: Sir William Davenant):
    Dryden's predecessor as poet laureate was this self-professed bastard son of Shakespeare. He himself bastardized many of Shakespeare's plays, including a shittier, but much more popular version of Macbeth.

[B6] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first of this poem's choruses states "None but the brave / None but the brave / None but the brave deserve the fair." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Alexander's Feast; or, the Power of Music: An Ode in Honour of St. Cecilia's Day"):
    Name this poem by John Dryden subtitled "The Power of Music" which describes how Timotheus's singing inspires the title monarch to seize a torch and set a palace on fire.
  Part 2 (ans: Mark Antony AND Cleopatra [accept in either order]):
    Dryden also depicted these two lovers in his play All for Love. In a Shakespeare play, one of these lovers poisons herself with an asp after they are defeated at the Battle of Actium.
  Part 3 (ans: Mac Flecknoe; or, A satyr upon the True-Blew-Protestant Poet, T.S.):
    Dryden also wrote this satire in which Thomas Shadwell becomes the new King of Nonsense. It begins with the line "all human things are subject to decay."

[B7] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One stanza of this poem begins by exclaiming "How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind!" For 10 points each
  Part 1 (ans: "Eloisa to Abelard"):
    Name this poem, which was based on a translation by the author's friend John Hughes.
  Part 2 (ans: "Windsor Forest"):
    This other Alexander Pope poem condemns the ravages of the Normans on the title location, as well as invoking poets like Grenville and Cooper. It was initially composed in honor of the Peace of Utrecht.
  Part 3 (ans: Mac Flecknoe: or, A satyr upon the True-Blew-Protestant Poet, T.S.):
    Pope's mock-epic, The Dunciad, was inspired by this John Dryden work, which features the poet Thomas Shadwell as an extraordinarily dull epic hero.
