=== STOCK CLUES: The Hind and the Panther ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This three-part poem includes a fable about the Swallows, who are convinced to hibernate instead of migrating. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hind and the Panther"):
    Name this allegorical poem that introduces different religious denominations in its first part. This poem references James II as a lion who protects a "milk white" creature "immortal and unchanged."
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration-era writer of "The Hind and the Panther" also satirized the Earl of Shaftesbury and Duke of Monmouth's claim to power in the poem "Absalom and Achitophel."
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    In the mock-epic Mac Flecknoe, Dryden aired out a dispute with Thomas Shadwell over "their different estimates of the genius of" this writer. He wrote the poem "To Celia" and the plays Volpone and The Alchemist.

[B2] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's "Alexander's Feast" inspired the libretto for Handel's oratorio of the same name, and he was named England's first Poet Laureate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    Name this poet who wrote a poem in decasyllabic quatrains that chronicles various battles from the Second Anglo-Dutch War and is preceded by a letter to his brother-in-law Robert Howard.
  Part 2 (ans: London):
    Dryden's Annus Mirabilis chronicles the Great Fire that broke out in this city in 1666, and it was written while the author sought to escape the Great Plague that afflicted this city the same year.
  Part 3 (ans: The Hind and the Panther: A Poem, in Three Parts):
    This allegorical poem by Dryden begins by describing a "milk-white" creature who "fear'd no danger, for she knew no sin." Its two title animals represent the Catholic Church and the Anglican Church.

[B3] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Written in heroic couplet, this poem can be read as a defense of Catholicism, as it was written after its author's conversion to that faith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hind and the Panther"):
    Name this long poem, the first part of which represents the various religious sects as animals, including the Presbyterians as a bear and Quakers as a hare, in addition to the two title animals.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    "The Hind and the Panther" was written by this Restoration poet. His other works include the drama Marriage a la Mode and his poetic reflection on the year 1666, "Annus Mirabilis."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Shadwell):
    Dryden's satirical poem "Mac Flecknoe" is an attack on this critic, a contemporary of Dryden's. His own works include the play The Virtuoso.

[B4] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One story told in this work is about a farm that is watched over by a tyrannical buzzard, while another story in it concerns a group of swallows who are convinced not to migrate, only to suffer during the winter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hind and the Panther):
    Name this work whose second part consists of a debate between its two title creatures, which represent the Church of England and the Roman Catholic Church.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This author of The Hind and the Panther satirized Thomas Shadwell is his "Mac Flecknoe," described the events of 1666 in Annus Mirabilis, and wrote at least the first part of Absalom and Achitophel.
  Part 3 (ans: Sicily):
    Dryden wrote about Leonidas and Palymra in his play Marriage a la Mode, which is set in this location. Leontes is the king of this island in A Winter's Tale, and it is also the setting of Much Ado About Nothing.

[B5] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This poem begins with the line "in pious times, ere priestcraft did begin." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Absalom and Achitophel):
    Name this allegory that uses the story of King David to satirize the Popish plot and the Monmouth Rebellion.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration author wrote Absalom and Achitophel as well as MacFlecknoe.
  Part 3 (ans: The Hind and the Panther):
    After John Dryden converted to Catholicism, he wrote this work in which he compared the Quakers to hares and the Presbyterians to wolves.
