=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Shirin Neshat ===
(Questions where 'Shirin Neshat' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2018 WORLDSTAR (2018) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Islamic Republic of Iran (accept Persia)
  - One artist from this country fled it after being questioned for the theft of royal jewels from a Hall of Mirrors that he had earlier painted; that academic artist also painted scenes such as The Geomancer.
  - Another artist from this country produced a trilogy of video installations titled Turbulence, Rapture, and Fervor.
  - Another photograph by that artist depicts a woman holding a gun in front of her face, which is inscribed with (*) Quranic verses.
  - That photograph is from the Women of Allah series, which succeeded its artist's Unveiling.
  - Shirin Neshat is an artist from this country, in which the Azadi Tower was commissioned by its last monarch.
  - For 10 points, name this country in which Kamal ol-Molk painted the palaces of the Qajar Dynasty and Mohammed Reza Pahlavi commissioned buildings in Tehran.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Meschac Gaba made conceptual rooms featuring gilded chicken legs to question the absence of a contemporary African one of these institutions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: art museums [or art galleries; accept Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa; accept Museum of Contemporary African Art 1997-2002]):
    Name these institutions, the first African contemporary one of which was founded in 2017 in Cape Town. Gaba's installation was acquired by one of these institutions named the Tate Modern.
  Part 2 (ans: calligraphy [or khatt ʿArabi; accept khoshnevisi]):
    Ibrahim El-Salahi, part of the Hurufiyya movement incorporating this art form, was the first African modern artist featured in a Tate retrospective in 2013. Shirin Neshat's photos eschew stylistic conventions in this art form, which include naskh.
  Part 3 (ans: El Anatsui):
    This artist said "it took a long time for the West to realize there is contemporary art in Africa" when commissioned to fill the Tate's Turbine Hall. This Ghanaian artist reuses bottle caps for cloth-like pieces.

[BM2] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Birds and vegetative forms surround vibrant women in many paintings by this country's self-taught artist Baya, who signed a manifesto declaring "the sign is louder than the bomb" by its Aouchem ("ow-SHEM") Group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Algeria [or People's Democratic Republic of Algeria or al-Jumhuriyya al-Jaza'iriyya ad-Dimuqratiyya as-Sa'biyya or Republique algerienne democratique et populaire] (The first artist is Baya Mahieddine. "Aouchem" means "tattoo.")):
    Name this modern-day country seen in an 1834 painting of courtesans lounging on Persian rugs and smoking a hookah pipe. Baya inspired Pablo Picasso to reinterpret that painting in a series labeled "A" to "O."
  Part 2 (ans: Orientalist painting [accept Orientalism]):
    Baya rejected this style that exoticizes the Middle East and Africa, as in Eugene Delacroix's Women of Algiers. Jean-Leon Gerome's The Snake Charmer graces the cover of an Edward Said book titled for this subject.
  Part 3 (ans: they are covered in calligraphy [accept Arabic calligraphy or or Persian calligraphy; prompt on Arabic or Persian text or writing; prompt on henna or mehndi or tattoo or ink by asking "used to create what visual element?"]):
    Moroccan artist Lalla Essaydi subverted Orientalist images with photos of Arab women depicted with this visual element. Shirin Neshat's Women of Allah series adds this element to photos of veiled women holding guns.

[BM3] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This style was inspired by Hassan Massoudy and the Hurufiyya genre's innovations in a traditional art form, but it is not clear where the term for it originated. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: calligraffiti [prompt on calligraphy or graffiti, and prompt on answers of both by asking "what is the specific term for the style?"]):
    Name this art form which applies styles like thuluth and naskh to a modern medium. The Tunisian artist eL Seed used this style to create an optical illusion honoring Cairo's zabbaleen trash collectors.
  Part 2 (ans: Baghdad, Iraq):
    Key pioneers of calligraphy-inspired Hurufiyya art were part of this capital city's "Modern Art Group." Many beloved works there by "sheikh of sculpture" Mohammad Ghani Hikmet were damaged in a 2003 invasion.
  Part 3 (ans: (Islamic Republic of) Iran [or (Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye) Iran; prompt on Persia] (The unidentified artist is Parviz Tanavoli. "Heech" means "nothing" in Farsi.)):
    The creator of calligraphic sculptures called "heeches" and the graffiti artists CK1 and Black Hand are from this country. The nastaʿliq style of calligraphy arose in what is now this country, the birthplace of Shirin Neshat.

[BM4] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Atena Farghadani was imprisoned for 3 months in Evin prison for drawing a cartoon criticizing this country after it passed a law restricting access to birth control. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iran [accept Persia]):
    Name this home country of Monir Farmanfarmaian and Shahla Aghapour. In her series Women of Allah, Shirin Neshat depicted women's lives in this country before and after the 1979 revolution overthrew Shah Reza Pahlavi.
  Part 2 (ans: shooting a gun [accept clear knowledge equivalents]):
    Xiao Lu was arrested for performing this action in her piece Dialogue at the 1989 China/Avant-Garde exhibition. A riot broke out after Marina Abramovic was nearly forced to perform this action on herself in Rhythm 0.
  Part 3 (ans: Tania Bruguera):
    This Cuban artist was arrested after performing the sixth installation of her series Tatlin's Whisper in Havana. This artist recreated pieces from the Silueta and Body Tracks series in her Tribute to Ana Mendieta.
