=== STOCK CLUES: Henryk Sienkiewicz ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 29 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henryk Sienkiewicz("shenk-YE-vitch") [or Henryk Adam Aleksander Pius Sienkiewicz; accept Litwos]
  - In one novel by this author, a character vows to replicate his ancestor's feat of cutting off three knights' heads with one blow. [PWR]
  - Another novel by this author opens with an account of the Billevich family whose patriarch Heraclius arranges a marriage for his granddaughter in his will. [PWR]
  - When they meet, a falcon draws together the hands of Helena and the protagonist who assists a revolutionary posing as Abdank at the start of a novel by this author set in the (*) mid-17th century. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, a young soldier returning from Asia Minor enlists the aid of the "Arbiter of Elegance" in order to woo a barbarian hostage.
  - In that novel by this author, the Christian Lygia falls in love with the patrician Marcus Vinicius.
  - For 10 points, a Trilogy including the novels With Fire and Sword and The Deluge is by which Polish author, who wrote about Nero's Rome in Quo Vadis? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henryk Sienkiewicz (SINK-ee-vitch) [Henryk Adam Aleksander Pius Sienkiewicz] [The first line refers to "Janko the Musician."]
  - The title peasant child of a story by this author is whipped to death after sneaking into a noble manor to play a violin.
  - This author wrote a novel in diary form about the decadent youth Leon, which exemplified his country's style of positivism.
  - One of this author's novels culminates with the neck of an aurochs being broken by a massive barbarian bodyguard.
  - This author fictionalized a 17th-century Cossack revolt in the first part of a trio of historical novels known as The Trilogy, which includes the novels Fire in the Steppe and With Fire and Sword.
  - This author depicted Nero witnessing the burning of Rome in a novel about the Christian woman Lygia's love for the Roman patrician Marcus Vinicius, titled for a phrase allegedly said by Peter to the risen Christ.
  - For 10 points, name this Polish author of Quo Vadis. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Polish [accept variations on Poland] (the authors are Jan Potocki, Boleslaw Prus, and Henryk Sienkiewicz)
  - A character of this nationality dreams of building a flying machine when observing a device in Paris that decreases the specific gravity of metals. [PWR]
  - In a novel by an author of this nationality, a traveler is caressed by two Tunisian princesses in his dreams, then magically wakes up under a gallows. [PWR]
  - An author of this nationality shot himself with a silver bullet after becoming convinced he was turning into a werewolf. [PWR]
  - In a novel, an old clerk of this nationality reads about Prince Napoleon's death in Africa and falls into a depressive illness. [PWR]
  - An author of this nationality wrote a series of (+) nested stories in French framed around a Walloon soldier's travels through Spain. [PWR]
  - A scientist-turned-merchant courts a vapid aristocrat in an example of this nationality's "positivist" literature. [PWR]
  - Authors of this nationality wrote The Manuscript Found in Saragossa and The Doll. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, give the nationality of the author who wrote about (*) Nero's Rome in Quo Vadis. [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henryk Sienkiewicz
  - A novel of manners written by this author follows two years in the life of a man who engages in an affair with a woman whose husband is ill, bothers his old girlfriend who is now married, and later commits suicide after her death. [PWR]
  - One character created by this author pines for Olenka and he loses a duel to a man who has a reputation as one of the best swordsman alive. [PWR]
  - The second volume of a three book series by this author includes the character Kmita who learns that the Swedes were ordered by (*) Radziwill to kill the Colonels. [PWR]
  - Marcus Vinicius tells a story to his uncle to capture the king's daughter Ligia in a book by this author of Without Dogma.
  - This author used an apocryphal quote by Jesus to Peter to title a novel that takes place in Rome during the reign of Nero.
  - For 10 points, name this Polish Nobel laureate of The Deluge and Quo Vadis. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henryk Sienkiewicz
  - This author wrote about a artist's travels in Paris with Pani Elzen and her sons Romulus and Remus in On the Bright Shore.
  - This man also wrote a children's novel where Nell explains to the main character that her father provided her with a superior education by teaching her about the Mahdi who lives in Sudan, and that novel is In Desert and Wilderness.
  - In another one of this author's works, the devious Chilo claims that he can read the future, and also believes that "Ulysses is the wisest of the dead, and (*) Petronius is the wisest of the living".
  - In another novel by this man, the squire Zatsi interrupts the dinner of the brash general Zagloba to explain about how the advance of the "German Knights will be danger to come", and in that novel Helena is rescued from the Tatars by Pan Longin.
  - For 10 points name this author who wrote about the experiences of Jan in With Fire and Sword, and also wrote about Marcus Vinicius in Quo Vadis. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Chilo helps the protagonist track down his love interest, and he later gets his tongue torn out. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Quo Vadis: A Narrative of the Time of Nero):
    Identify this novel, in which Marcus Vinicius falls in love with the hostage girl Lygia. In this novel, a certain emperor blames Christians for the Great Fire of Rome.
  Part 2 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz):
    Quo Vadis is by this Polish author.
  Part 3 (ans: Ursus):
    In Quo Vadis, Vinicius is almost killed by this bodyguard of Lygia. In a series of arena games, this giant manages to break the neck of a charging bull.

[B2] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the genesis of Jerzy Kosinski's books:
  Part 1 (ans: The Painted Bird):
    It is not known how much of this Kosinski novel about a boy who witnesses gruesome atrocities in eastern Europe near the end of World War Two is autobiographical and how much is fictional. This novel takes its title from the animals caught and released by Stupid Ludmila.
  Part 2 (ans: Poland [the Nobel winner is Henryk Sienkiewicz]):
    Kosinski's education in this European country inspired his account of a student who seeks an inner refuge from a totalitarian regime in his book Steps. A Nobel winner from this country set his novel Quo Vadis during the reign of the Roman emperor Nero.
  Part 3 (ans: The Career of Nicodemus Dyzma [or Kariera Nikodema Dyzmy; accept close variations of the name such as The Career of Nikodem Dyzma or Career of Nikos Dyzma; by Tadeusz Dolega-Mostowicz]):
    Critics debate whether Kosinski's book Being There copied parts of- or was merely inspired by- this novel about an unwitting social climber in Warsaw.

[B3] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel from this modern-day country written 20 years before Animal Farm depicts farm animals overthrowing the farmers to introduce 'equality', only for the revolt to degenerate into terror. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poland):
    Name this modern-day country, whose first Nobel Laureate wrote a four-volume epic novel titled Peasants. That author was part of decadent movement named "Young [this country]".
  Part 2 (ans: vampire [accept Der Vampir]):
    The author of Peasants, Wladyslaw Reymont, also wrote a sceptically-received late novel titled for one of these creatures. One of these creatures is the title character of Bram Stoker's novel Dracula.
  Part 3 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz):
    This other Polish author wrote another multi-volume historical series beginning with With Fire and Sword, simply known as The Trilogy. His best-known work, Quo Vadis?, centers on the Roman Marcus Vinicius amid the rise of Christianity.

[B4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a trilogy that contained With Fire and Sword and Fire in the Steppe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz (shen-k'YEH-veetch) [Henryk Adam Aleksander Pius Sienkiewicz]):
    Name this author who wrote The Deluge.
  Part 2 (ans: Saint Peter [or Simon Peter; or Simeon]):
    In Quo Vadis, Sienkiewicz wrote about this Christian who, while leaving Rome, was met by Jesus, then returned to Rome to be martyred.
  Part 3 (ans: bull [prompt on cattle; prompt on cow]):
    In Quo Vadis, Ursus chokes this kind of animal to death. Lygia was strapped to the back of this animal while nude. People fight these animals in Death in the Afternoon.

[B5] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The inspiration for this character has been identified as Baron Wladyslaw Moes, the subject of Gilbert Adair's book The Real [this character]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tadzio):
    Name this 14 year old character who first appears wearing a sailor costume. He fights with an older boy named Jasiu who he meets while staying with his aristocratic family at a hotel.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    Although this author was only 36 when he became infatuated with Wladyslaw, he aged himself up significantly into the middle-aged character Gustav von Aschenbach while writing Death in Venice. He also wrote The Magic Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz ):
    Oddly enough, Mann was not the only Nobel winner to take an interest in Wladyslaw. According to Adair's biography, this other author spotted the boy at a wedding when he was six and dandled him until he urinated on this author's lap. He's best known for writing about Roman lovers Marcus and Lycia in the novel Quo Vadis.

[B6] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of Poland's most famous non-Joseph Conrad authors is this writer of historical fiction like In Desert and Wilderness and Knights of the Cross. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz):
    Name this author who wrote "The Trilogy," which includes With Fire and Sword and The Deluge.
  Part 2 (ans: Fire in the Steppe):
    Michal Wolodyjowski dies protecting a gunpowder stache just before the Battle of Vienna in the final novel of The Trilogy, which has this name in English translations

[B7] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Characters in this novel include the slave Eunice, who is in love with her master Petronius. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Quo Vadis: A Narrative in the Time of Nero [or Quo vadis. Powiesc z czasow Nerona]):
    Name this novel set during the reign of Nero, which details the love between Marcus Vicinius and the Christian Ligia.
  Part 2 (ans: The Teutonic Knights [or The Knights of the Cross; or Krzyzacy]):
    In this novel by the author of Quo Vadis, Danusia saves Zbyszko from execution after he attacks Kuno von Liechtenstein.
  Part 3 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz):
    This Polish author of The Teutonic Knights and Quo Vadis also wrote a historical trilogy including With Fire and Sword, The Deluge, and Fire in the Steppe.

[B8] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A feud over ownership of a castle named Soplicowo sets the plot of this work into action, which is resolved when the title character marries Zosia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pan Tadeusz, czyli ostatni zajazd na Litwie. Historia szlachecka z roku 1811 i 1812 we dwunastu ksiegach wierszem [or Sir Thaddeus, or the Last Lithuanian Foray: A Nobleman's Tale from the Years of 1811 and 1812 in Twelve Books of Verse]):
    Name this twelve-book epic poem whose most awesome character, Jacek, returns as a Benedictine monk named Robak, kills a bear with a single shot, and dies protecting both feuding families from gunfire.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska; or Polsko Republika]):
    Adam Mickiewicz's Pan Tadeusz is considered the national epic of this country, and takes place during its union with Lithuania. This nation's was home to 20th century poets Czeslaw Milosz and Wislawa Szymborska.
  Part 3 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz):
    This author fictionalized the Khmelnytsky Uprising in With Fire and Sword. Petronius tries to help foster a romance between Marcus Vinicius and Ligia in his novel Quo Vadis?

[B9] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about Polish literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz):
    This historical novelist wrote about the burgeoning love between Ligia and Marcus Vinicius in a Christian novel that also features Nero and Saint Peter, who asks the title question.
  Part 2 (ans: Witold Gombrowicz):
    This man wrote about how a 30-year old comes to be kidnapped by a professor and transformed into a teenager in Ferdydurke, and also wrote about two old men that become obsessed with two farm children in Pornografia.
  Part 3 (ans: World War II):
    The backdrop of Trans-Atlantyk, like much of Gombrowicz's work, takes place during this war. Elie Wiesel described his experiences in a Polish concentration camp during this conflict in Night.

[B10] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Petronius constantly sucks up to the emperor, using flattery and wit to remain in his good graces. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Quo Vadis: A Narrative of the Time of Nero):
    Name this novel in which Marcus Vinicius enlists the help of Chilon Chilonides to track down Ligia, a captured Christian slave, after he falls in love with her.
  Part 2 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz):
    Quo Vadis was written by this Polish author who wrote a trilogy based on the history of his home country consisting of With Fire and Sword, The Deluge, and Fire in the Steppe.
  Part 3 (ans: Helena [or Helena Kurcewiczowna]):
    With Fire and Sword centers on the love between Jan Skrzetuski and woman with this first name. In a different play, a character with this name renounces the philosophy of the League of Humanity and marries Domin.
