=== STOCK CLUES: Milosz ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Auschwitz [accept Oswiecim or Auschwitz II-Birkenau or Auschwitz III-Monowitz; accept Survival in Auschwitz; prompt on concentration camps or death camps or Konzentrationslager] (The third sentence is from "Vanadium." The Captive Mind is by Czeslaw Milosz. The author is Tadeusz Borowski.)
  - This place is contrasted with a "world inhabited by civilized Cartesian phantoms" in a book's opening paragraph.
  - A collection set in this place, meant to be worthy of a "world, chiseled out of stone," features the author bidding "Farewell" to his girlfriend Maria.
  - A story's narrator says, "I am not a Count of Monte Cristo" upon recognizing a doctor from this place based on how he spells "naphthenate"  in a letter about faulty varnish.
  - Autobiographical stories about Tadek set in this place are quoted in the chapter "Beta, the Disappointed Lover" from The Captive Mind.
  - To teach Italian to Jean, a man in this place recites Inferno's "Canto of Ulysses" from memory.
  - A man trades goods stolen in this place for bread in "Cerium," a story in The Periodic Table.
  - For 10 points, Primo Levi's memoir If This is a Man depicts the horrors of what place? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-wahf MEE-wosh")
  - This poet asserted "it's possible to conjecture that mankind exists / To provision and populate Hell" in an ekphrastic poem describing Bosch's Garden of Earthly Delights.
  - This poet wrote of "trees outside the window, which probably exist" in a poem opening "We are not so badly off, if we can / Admire Dutch painting." Another poem by this author of the poem "Realism" mentions a fisherman mending "a glimmering net" and a bee circling a clover before closing with the repeated line "There will be no other (*) end of the world." This author's 1995 collection Facing the River was translated into English by his colleague Robert Hass.
  - An anti-communist book by this author discusses the ideologies of men nicknamed Alpha and Beta.
  - For 10 points, name this dissident Polish poet who wrote The Captive Mind. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Polish [or Polski] (The first poem is "Song on the End of the World" by Milosz; "The End and the Beginning" is by Wislawa Szymborska.)
  - A poem in this language notes that a "white-haired old man" who "binds his tomatoes" is the only one who believes that the title event "is happening now." Another poem in this language describes those who "push the rubble to the side of the road" and "get mired in scum and ashes." A "Treatise on Poetry" in this language was translated into English by Robert Hass.
  - A poem in this language reflects that "after every war, someone has to (*) clean up" and is titled "The End and The Beginning." "Delta, the Troubadour" appears in a book about this language's literature titled The Captive Mind.
  - A novel in this language follows a patrician who falls in love with Lygia and is set during "the time of Nero." For 10 points, Czeslaw Milosz  and the author of Quo Vadis, Henryk Sienkiewicz , wrote in what language? [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Czeslaw Milosz
  - This author's viewing of the frescoes of Luca Signorelli led him to examine the apocalyptic nature of Vladimir Solovyov's writings in his essay "Science Fiction and the Coming of Antichrist." In another essay, this author examined the philosopher Lev Shestov's "purity of despair." This man, who examined "modes of eccentric vision" in Emperor of the Earth, wrote a book that examines a writer's novel about the dictator Murti Bing, who gives everyone a special pill to strip people of their resistance.
  - This man's poetry collection Unattainable Earth was the first of his collaborations with Robert Hass, who championed him while they were both at Berkeley.
  - In a book about Beta the Disenchanted Lover and Delta the Troubadour, this author wrote about 4 intellectuals who are initially attracted to Communism.
  - For 10 points, name this Polish author of The Captive Mind. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator writes to his girlfriend ironically, saying that he's happy the Nazis are training him as a research doctor, in this collection's story "Auschwitz, Our Home." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen [or Ladies and Gentlemen, to the Gas Chamber]):
    Name this collection originally titled Farewell to Maria. Five years after this collection's 1946 publication, its author committed suicide by turning on a stove.
  Part 2 (ans: Primo Levi):
    Like Borowski, this Italian author was employed as a scientist at Auschwitz, as described in stories from his collection The Periodic Table.
  Part 3 (ans: The Captive Mind (by Czeslaw Milosz)):
    Borowski is described in this book as "Beta, the Disappointed Lover." This book uses the word ketman to describe how writers deceitfully accept communism in public.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In an Adam Zagajewski ("za-ga-YEFF-skee")poem about "Reading" this author, the speaker says, "your tone / transforms us for a moment, / we believe-truly- / that every day is sacred." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz("CHESS-waff MEE-wohsh")(Witold Gombrowicz wrote about "kill[ing] the Milosz in myself.")):
    Name this author, who inspired another author to write "I kill the [this author] in myself / in order to be more [this author]." This winner of the 1980 Nobel Prize in Literature wrote The Captive Mind.
  Part 2 (ans: Polish [or polski; or jezyk polski]):
    Adam Zagajewski, Milosz, and Wislawa Szymborska ("vee-SWAH-vah shim-BOR-ska") primarily wrote in this language.
  Part 3 (ans: 9/11 [or the September 11, 2001 attacks; or the attack on the World Trade Center; or the attack on the Twin Towers; accept "Photograph from September 11" or "Fotografia z 11 wresnia"]):
    Zagajewski wrote the poem "Try to Praise the Mutilated World" in response to this event. Szymborska wrote a poem framed as a "Photograph" from this event.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's early mentorship by his cousin Oscar led to the "catastrophist" outlook he championed leading the Zagary ("zhah-GAH-rih") group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-woff MEE-woash")):
    What poet wrote "No one believes it is happening now" in "A Song on the End of the World?" Poet in the New World collects translations of this poet by his frequent collaborator at Berkeley, Robert Hass.
  Part 2 (ans: A Treatise on Poetry [or Traktat poetycki]):
    Peter Dale Scott's book Ecstatic Pessimist discusses the "Hegelianism" of this book-length Milosz poem. Its four books survey Polish literature and destruction in the first half of the 20th century, culminating in the Warsaw Uprising.
  Part 3 (ans: "Ars Poetica" [or "The Art of Poetry"]):
    Milosz wrote, "I have always aspired to a more spacious form" in a poem titled after this other poetic treatise. This poem by Horace coined phrases like ut pictura poesis and in medias res.

[B4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet with this surname ended his November Symphony with the lines "Cold and fat, the hollow flowers shake there / In the dumb stream.". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milosz [or Milosz or Milasius]):
    Give this surname shared by a poet who authored the cosmological poems Les Arcanes ("leh-zar-KAN") and Ars Magna, and another who wrote a poem beginning "In Rome on the Campo dei Fiori ("CAM-poh day F'YOR-ree") / baskets of olives and lemons".
  Part 2 (ans: The Republic of Poland [or People's Republic of Poland or Rzeczpospolita Polska]):
    November Symphony was written by the Lithuanian poet Oscar Milosz while Campo Dei Fiori was written by his more famous cousin Czeslaw ("CHEH-swahf") who was associated with this country from which he emigrated to the USA. This country's national epic is Pan Tadeusz ("tah-DEH-oosh") written by one of its three bards, Adam Mickiewicz ("meets-KYEH-veech").
  Part 3 (ans: The Captive Mind [or Zniewolony umysl]):
    Czeslaw Milosz ("MEE-wosh")'s most famous non-fiction work is this book that examines the concept of ketman and discusses intellectuals nicknamed Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta.

[B5] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of a novel by this author proposes the doing of a "Most Terrible Deed" in order to escape a cellar filled with people who periodically gore each other in the thigh with bent spurs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Witold Gombrowicz ("VEE-told gom-BROH-veech")):
    Name this author who wrote of Gonzalo's attempts to both sleep with Ignatio and trick him into murdering his father in a fictionalization of their accidental exile in Argentina, the comic novel Trans-Atlantyk.
  Part 2 (ans: "me" [or "ja"]):
    While exiled in Argentina, Gombrowicz began work on his Diary, whose first four entries each consist solely of this short word. Give either the Polish word or English translation.
  Part 3 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-waff MEE-woash")):
    In an early entry of the Diary, Gombrowicz responds to this author's critique of Trans-Atlantyk as irrelevant to a Poland under Marxism. Later in the Diary, Gombrowicz notes his approval of this Polish-American author's The Captive Mind.

[B6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A Jan Lechon poem on this author's death notes how "Your father in his sleepless exile calls / You in your country's language." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski; accept "On the death of Joseph Conrad"]):
    Name this British author. The first epigraph to T. S. Eliot's "The Hollow Men" is "Mistah Kurtz-he dead," a reference to this author's Heart of Darkness.
  Part 2 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz (The book is The Captive Mind.)):
    The line "Before us is 'The Heart of Darkness'" ends this author's long poem The Treatise on Morality. This editor of The Book of Luminous Things wrote a book that discusses four intellectuals with the aliases Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta.
  Part 3 (ans: Ithaca [or Ithaka] (The poem is "Ithaka" by Constantine Cavafy.)):
    Conrad is called to "Come back from Kent ... from Westminster!" in a Marian Piechal ("mar-yahn pee-eh-KHALL") poem titled for this place. Another poem titled for this place advises you to "keep [this place] always in your mind" and claims it "gave you the marvelous journey."

[B7] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In Clare Cavanagh's translation of a poem in this language titled "Map," the author claims to like the title objects "because they give no access to the vicious truth." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Polish [or polski] (The poets are Wislawa Szymborska and Czeslaw Milosz.)):
    Name this language used by the Nobel-Prize-winning poet of the collections Salt and Nothing Twice. Robert Hass translated "A Song on the End of the World" from this language to English.
  Part 2 (ans: Adam Zagajewski ("zah-gah-YEV-skee")):
    Cavanagh's translation of this author's poem "Try to Praise the Mutilated World" was printed on the back page of The New Yorker after 9/11. This member of Poland's Generation of '68 died in 2021.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    Cavanagh's essay "The Art of Losing" pushes back against the desire for literal translations using the example of a Polish translation of this American poet's villanelle "One Art."

[B8] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One work outlines seven forms of "Ketman" that dissidents use to silently protest the policies of this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Soviet Union [or USSR; accept Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; prompt on Russia]):
    Name this country whose censorship policies were avoided through unofficial publications called samizdat. This country promoted literature in the socialist realism genre.
  Part 2 (ans: The Captive Mind [or Zniewolony Umysl] (by Czeslaw Milosz)):
    The seven forms of "Ketman" Soviet dissidence are discussed in this work, which describes fellow writers from the author's country in sections like "Alpha, the Moralist."
  Part 3 (ans: dystopian novel [accept answers describing dystopias; prompt on futuristic novels or science fiction]):
    In The Captive Mind, Milosz compares the plot of a novel in this genre, Insatiability, to the effects of Marxism-Leninism on the Soviet republics. Yevgeny Zamyatin's novel We in this genre may have inspired a later novel in this genre contrasted with its author's later work Island.

[B9] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about poetry that draws upon the Beatles, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Polish [or polski; the poets are Stanislaw Baranczak and Czeslaw Milosz]):
    A poet in this language lowered the singer's age to 63 in his adaptation of "When I'm Sixty-Four." His book Surgical Precision won the Nike Award, the top prize for literature in this language, a year after a Nobel laureate won it for his collection Roadside Dog.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    This poet described his sexual awakening "Between the end of the 'Chatterley' ban / And the Beatles' first LP" in his poem "Annus Mirabilis." He wrote: "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his poem "This Be the Verse".
  Part 3 (ans: Omeros [by Derek Walcott]):
    In chapter VI of this long poem, the pregnant housemaid Helen sings the Beatles' "Yesterday" while strolling down the beach, before imagining the burning of Troy.

[B10] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet from this country created the Everyman alter ego Mr. Cogito during his travels abroad. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poland):
    Name this European country home to Zbigniew Herbert. A Nobel laureate from this country who wrote with "ironic precision" lived in its city of Krakow.
  Part 2 (ans: Wisɫawa Szymborska (vis-WA-va shim-BOR-ska)):
    The aforementioned Nobel laureate is this poet of the collection Nothing Twice. Every sentence of her poem "Possibilities" begins with "I prefer."
  Part 3 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz (CHESS-waff MEE-wosh)):
    This other Polish Nobel laureate of The Captive Mind wrote "A Treatise on Poetry," which details the literary life and history of Poland before going into its last section set in Pennsylvania.

[B11] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The "Cricot 2" theater group, founded by avant-garde artist Tadeusz Kantor, was initially dedicated to staging productions of this writer's plays, such as The Cuttlefish and The Water Hen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stanislaw Witkiewicz [or Witkacy]):
    Name this Polish writer and painter, whom Martin Esslin cited as a precursor to the "Theater of the Absurd." Chinese armies take over Europe in the year 2000 in this author's novel Insatiability.
  Part 2 (ans: The Captive Mind [or Zniewolony Umysl] (by Czeslaw Milosz)):
    The first section of this book uses the "Murti Bing pills" from Insatiability as a metaphor for dogmatic thought. It analyzes the case histories of four intellectuals under the pseudonyms "Alpha," "Beta," "Gamma," and "Delta."
  Part 3 (ans: Auschwitz):
    In The Captive Mind, "Beta," who represents Tadeusz Borowski, becomes a propagandist for the Polish government after returning from this location. This location is the setting of Primo Levi's If This is a Man.

[B12] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author included some of his own translations of compatriots like Anna Swir ("shveer") in his "international anthology" of poetry, A Book of Luminous Things. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-waff MEE-woash")):
    Name this poet who described an old man "who would be a prophet / Yet is not a prophet, for he's much too busy" repeating "There will be no other end of the world" in his poem "A Song on the End of the World."
  Part 2 (ans: Adam ("AH-dahm") [accept Adam Zagajewski or Adam Mickiewicz]):
    Milosz's A Book of Luminous Things includes a very short poem titled "Auto Mirror" by a Polish author of this first name whose most famous poem advises, "Try to praise the mutilated world." This first name is shared by the author of Pan Tadeusz ("pahn TAH-day-oosh"), the Polish national epic.
  Part 3 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    Milosz suggested that "poems should be written rarely and reluctantly, / under unbearable duress" in a poem titled "Ars Poetica" in reference to this Roman poet, who wrote "carpe diem" in one of his books of odes.

[B13] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote "Do not feel safe. The poet remembers. / You can kill one, but another is born" in "You Who Wronged." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-wav MEE-wosh")):
    Name this poet who wrote about Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta in The Captive Mind, which attempts to explain why Stalinism appeals to intellectuals.
  Part 2 (ans: Poland):
    Milosz hails from this Eastern European country. The author of Quo Vadis, Henryk Sinkiewicz ("shen-KYEY-vitch"), is from here.
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    This Irish poet, who wrote about seeing creatures "poised like mud grenades" that created "warm thick slobber" in one work, was heavily influenced by Milosz and read a poem at his funeral.

[B14] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet noted that "it's in [time's] nature not to stay" since "today is always gone tomorrow" in her poem "Nothing Twice." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wislawa Szymborska (Vi-swa-va Shim-bor-ska) [or Maria Wislawa Anna Szymborska-Wlodek]):
    Name this poet who wrote that "after every war, someone has to clean up" in her poem "The End and the Beginning". This author's poem "Love at First Sight" ends with the affirmation that "every beginning is only a sequel, after all, and the book of events is always open halfway through."
  Part 2 (ans: cats):
    Szymborska won the Nobel Prize in part for a poem from the perspective of one of these animals wandering around an empty apartment. Another poet published a volume titled for Old Possum's Book of Practical these animals.
  Part 3 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz (chess-swaf mi-woshe)):
    This fellow Pole who authored an essay on Szymborska notes that people who expect "lightning and thunder" will be disappointed in his poem "A Song on the End of the World." This author described people such as Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta in his work The Captive Mind.

[B15] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author began his poem "Account" by declaring that "The history of my stupidity would fill many volumes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-waff MEE-woash")):
    Name this author who described his "former lives... departing, / like ships, together with their sorrow" in his poem "Late Ripeness," which was translated into English with the help of his Berkeley colleague Robert Hass.
  Part 2 (ans: poems (Both poems are titled "Ars Poetica.")):
    Milosz wrote a poem declaring that these works should be written "rarely and reluctantly, / under unbearable duress." A similarly-titled poem by Archibald MacLeish states that these writings "should not mean / But be."
  Part 3 (ans: the end of the world [or descriptive equivalents]):
    Milosz reports that a "drunkard grows sleepy at the edge of a lawn" in a poetic "Song on" this event, which a different poem predicts will happen "Not with a bang but with a whimper."

[B16] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel by this author, Marina is seduced by Karlinsky, despite being married to the state prosecutor Globov, who is working on the conviction of Rabinovich, while his own son is convicted of Trotskyite subversion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abram Tertz [or Andrei Donatovich Sinyavsky]):
    Name this author, whose works, like the novels The Trial Begins and The Makepeace Experiment and a critique of Socialist Realism were smuggled out of the USSR and published abroad from 1959 until his arrest and trial in 1965.
  Part 2 (ans: Abortion):
    In The Trial Begins, Globov initially investigates Rabinovich for performing this action illegally, and becomes estranged from his wife Marina, when she declares that she had the same procedure without his knowledge.
  Part 3 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz):
    The English edition of Tertz's critique of Socrealism is often preceded by an essay on the then-anonymous author by this Polish emigre, himself the author of The Captive Mind.

[B17] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of this author's poems, a man points to a hare during a trip through "frozen fields in a wagon at dawn" and the speaker notes that neither the hare nor the man are alive today. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz (mil OSH; like the first syllable in "ocean")):
    Name this author who wrote collections such as Facing the River and The Light of Day, but is best known for a work of nonfiction in which Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta crumble under a communist regime.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]):
    Milosz wrote The Captive Mind while in political exile from this European country, whose historical connection with Lithuania was the subject of Adam Mickiewicz (mee KAY vich)'s epic Pan Tadeusz (ta DOITCH).
  Part 3 (ans: Quo Vadis: A Narrative of the Time of Nero):
    An earlier Polish work is this novel by Sienkiewicz (shen KAY vich), about the relationship of the Christian woman Lygia and the Roman patrician Marcus Vicinius in Nero's regime. Its title is Latin for "where are you going?"
