=== STOCK CLUES: Sheridan ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 89 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 30 found, 73 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the Sheridan family [prompt on Le Fanu before mentioned] (the play in the first line is Alicia Sheridan Le Fanu's Sons of Erin)
  - A member of this family wrote a play in which Mr. [PWR]
  - Marshall declares the title "Modern Sentiment" "The wish to please!" An author who married into this family "pleads old magna charta on her side" to advocate for female writers in a play about Louisa Medway's escape from an arranged marriage, The Discovery.
  - In addition to Alicia Le Fanu and Frances, a member of this family wrote a play in which a hiding woman is called "a little French milliner" by a man who lies to Mr. [PWR]
  - (*) Stanley.
  - Sir Oliver visits Joseph and Charles Surface in that play by a member of this family about the gossipmonger Lady Sneerwell.
  - For 10 points, name this literary family that included the author of The School for Scandal, Richard Brinsley. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Thomas Sheridan Le Fanu
  - In a novel by this author, a maid describes a recently arrived, abnormally tall French governess as a sinister Little Red Riding Hood, while her pupil thinks of her as an "Eluesinian princess on [a] vase." That character created by this author, Madame de la Rougiere, hears the ghost of Lady Rachel shortly after arriving at the Derbyshire estate of Knowl. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, the doctor Sturk is attacked by a murderer who then pays for the former's surgery to throw others off his trail. [PWR]
  - An image of a Swedenborgian father pacing through the light and dark bands of his library opens a novel by this author narrated by his daughter, the adolescent Maud Ruthyn.
  - In a novel by this author, Mr. [PWR]
  - Mervyn buries the body of his executed father Lord Dunoran in the title place near Dublin, all while trying to clear his name by catching the real killer, Dangerfield. [PWR]
  - The suspicious suicide of a creditor, possibly at the hands of the gambling title relative, drives the plot of that novel by this author, which is often considered the first (*) locked room mystery. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Anglo-Irish author of the gothic novels The House by the Churchyard and Uncle Silas, as well as the lesbian vampire tale Carmilla. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Philip [accept Philip St. George Cooke, Philip Kearny, or Philip Sheridan]
  - A Union general with this first name was the father-in-law of Jeb Stuart and authored an 1862 Cavalry Tactics Manual that was used by both sides in the Civil War. [PWR]
  - Another Union general with this first name who ironically claimed "The Rebel bullet that can kill me has not yet been molded" died, along with Isaac Stevens, at the 1862 Battle of Chantilly; that man with this first name was the nephew of Stephen Kearny. [PWR]
  - Forces under another general with this first name killed (*) Jeb Stuart at the Battle of Yellow Tavern just outside Richmond and defeated Jubal Early at the Battles of Cedar Creek and Third Winchester. [PWR]
  - That man with this first name destroyed the Confederate breadbasket by burning much of the Shenandoah Valley.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the holder of the title General of the Army with the last name Sheridan. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Brinsley Sheridan
  - This author's sanitized version of John Vanbrugh's The Relapse inspired an adaptation of that play spanning from 1800 to the present day by Alan Ayckbourn.
  - George Colman wrote a rhyming epilogue to a play by this author, in which a man who claims to be the poor Mr.
  - Stanley also pretends to be a moneylender with the help of Moses.
  - In that play by this author of A Trip to Scarborough, Oliver Surface disguises himself for his nephews, the wards of a man whose affairs are meddled with by Snake and Lady Sneerwell.
  - In another play by this author, Sir Lucius O'Trigger almost duels Jack Absolute over a woman named Lydia until he realizes that he was actually sending love letters to Mrs.
  - Malaprop.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of The School for Scandal and The Rivals. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Brinsley Sheridan
  - In one of this author's plays, characters discussing the work of a vain writer based on Richard Cumberland are interrupted by an Italian man with an interpreter who can only translate into French.
  - This author created a cunning maid who earns tips by delivering love notes, but misleads a man as to the identity of "Delia." In a play by this author, a rehearsal of Mr.
  - Puff's play The Spanish Armada is attended by Mr.
  - Sneer and Mr.
  - Dangle.
  - In a play by this author, Jack Absolute pretends to be "Ensign Beverley" to woo Lydia Languish, whose guardian often says phrases like "he is the very pineapple of politeness." That constantly misspeaking character created by this author is the source of the term "malapropism." For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of The Critic and The Rivals. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Brinsley Sheridan
  - A character in a play by this author urges her mistress to set aside Ovid and The Man of Feeling in favor of a copy of Fordyce's Sermons. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, a man in disguise offers to pay a hundred pounds for a painting of himself during an auction selling off family portraits. [PWR]
  - A character in a play by this author, who confesses that she penned letters under the name "Delia," describes a woman as (*) "headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile." In a play by this author, a character pulls down a folding screen to reveal Lady Teazle and her subsequent affair with Joseph Surface. [PWR]
  - A character in a play by this author refers to Anthony Absolute as the very "pineapple of politeness" in one of her namesake malapropisms.
  - For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of The Rivals and The School for Scandal. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Sheridan [or Richard Brinsley Sheridan] (The play in the first and third sentences is The Critic.)
  - In one play by this author, an interpreter who only speaks French repeatedly tries and fails to translate for a family who only speaks Italian. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, a man causes his lover to leave in tears after he confronts her about singing and dancing without his knowledge. [PWR]
  - A George Villiers play mocking John Dryden inspired a play by this author in which the title character insults the vain (*) Fretful Plagiary, then attends a rehearsal of Puff's play The Spanish Armada. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a play in which a character masquerading as "Ensign Beverley" is revealed to his lover by a woman who prefers Anthony Absolute, calling him "the very pine-apple of politeness." For 10 points, name this Irish satirist who created the misspeaking Mrs. [GIVE]
  - Malaprop in his play The Rivals.

[T8] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: a play performance [or a drama performance; or a masque performance; accept play-within-a-play; prompt on performance by asking "of what sort of work?"] (The Sheridan comedy is The Critic.)
  - An exceptionally gory one of these events, in which Hippolito is shot with poisoned arrows and Bianca drinks poison, concludes Thomas Middleton's tragedy Women Beware Women.
  - Mr.
  - Dangle and Mr.
  - Sneer attend one of these events organized by Mr.
  - Puff in a comedy by Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
  - In another work, Philostrate advises a man not to attend one of these events during which a man says "die, die, die, die, die." A man holds up fingers to represent a crack in a wall during a "tedious and brief" one of these events organized by "rude mechanicals" like Snout and Quince, in which two lovers in Babylon commit suicide.
  - For 10 points, Act 5 Scene 1 of A Midsummer Night's Dream features Nick Bottom's performance in an example of what sort of work, titled Pyramus and Thisbe? [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Brinsley Sheridan
  - In a play created by this author, a woman demands that her love interest "be father and mother, brother, cousin, uncle, aunt, and friend" to her in a parody of his era's overwrought dramas.
  - Don Ferolo Whiskerandos and Tilburina appear in that meta-play created by this author.
  - In that play by this author, Sneer and Dangle offer malicious comments on a play by Puff.
  - One character in another play by this author uses the pseudonym "Delia" to write fake love letters to Sir Lucius O'Trigger.
  - Jack Absolute disguises himself as Ensign Beverley in order to court Lydia Languish in that play by this author, in which lines like "an allegory on the banks of the Nile" and "the pineapple of politeness" are spoken by her aunt, Miss Malaprop.
  - For 10 points, name this Irish comedic playwright of The Critic, The Rivals and The School for Scandal. [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Sheridan [or Richard Brinsley Sheridan]
  - This author quipped a man should be able to "take a glass of wine by his own fireside," referencing the burning of his theatre. [PWR]
  - This author, who acquired the Drury Lane theatre from David Garrick, used George Villiers's The Rehearsal as the basis for a play about a rehearsal of the play The Spanish Armada. [PWR]
  - This author's debut play, set in the town of Bath, failed due to the poor performance of the character Sir Lucius (*) O'Trigger.
  - Lines describing "an allegory on the banks of the Nile" and "the very pineapple of politeness" appear in a play by this author in which Jack Absolute disguises himself as the penniless Ensign Beverley to pursue Lydia Languish, whose guardian is the comic Mrs.
  - Malaprop.
  - For 10 points, identify this Irish playwright of The Critic and The Rivals. [GIVE]

[T11] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Brinsley Sheridan
  - One of this playwright's characters claims to have lived for two years off of his misfortunes, such as losing the use of his limbs and becoming a "widow with six helpless children." In a play by this author, a woman described as an "old weather-beaten she-dragon" serves as the guardian of an heiress who loves "Ensign Beverly," who is actually another man in disguise.
  - The second act of a play by this author features many comments from Mr.
  - Sneer and Mr.
  - Dangle, who are watching a rehearsal of the tragedy The Spanish Armada.
  - In a play by this author, Charles Surface throws down the screen covering Lady Teazle, whom her husband and Charles had believed to be a French milliner.
  - This author of The Critic wrote a play about Jack Absolute's pursuit of Lydia Languish, the niece of Mrs.
  - Malaprop.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The School for Scandal and The Rivals. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu
  - In a novel by this man, Puddock and O'Flaherty bluster about and eventually do not have a promised duel.
  - This man fictionalized painter Godfried Schalcken in a story about a dead husband returning to his wife, and he wrote a novel which starts with the discovery of blunt force trauma and trepanning marks on the skull of Charles de Cresseron.
  - Dickon Hawkes performs odd jobs in another novel by this author, in which a marriage to the terrible Dudley is planned by the scheming title character against his niece Maud Ruthyn.
  - A portrait of Mircalla, Countess Karnstein is an exact image of Laura in a novel by this author, in which Dr.
  - Hesselius narrates the discovery of a female vampire.
  - For 10 points, name this Irish horror writer of Uncle Silas and Carmilla. [GIVE]

[T13] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Brinsley Sheridan
  - This author translated the August von Kotzebue play The Spaniard in Peru under the title Pizarro. [PWR]
  - In one of his own plays, Doctor Rosy helps a man masquerade as Humphry Hum in order to gain employ with Justice Credulous. [PWR]
  - This author of St. [PWR]
  - Patrick's Day also wrote a comedy in which Mr. [PWR]
  - Puff is producing a play at the Dangles' household and Richard Cumberland is satirized as Sir (*) Fretful Plagiary. [PWR]
  - Lady Sneerwell attempts to bring everyone down to her level and a man disguises himself as the moneylender Mr.
  - Premium in another of his plays, which ends with Oliver Surface leaving his fortune to his nephew Charles.
  - He also created Lydia Languish, who is betrothed to Ensign Beverly after many misspeakings from Mrs.
  - Malaprop.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Critic, The Rivals, and The School for Scandal. [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Philip Henry Sheridan
  - As commander of the Fifth Military District, this man ordered the removal of Texas Governor James Throckmorton for being an "impediment to the reconstruction." This man led an army to Texas in an attempt to persuade Emperor Maximilian to leave Mexico.
  - This man was called east after his assault on Missionary Ridge near Chattanooga, and he won the Battle of Yellow Tavern, where J.E.B.
  - Stuart was killed.
  - While leading campaigns against the Plains Indians, he became associated with the maxim "the only good Indian is a dead Indian." At the Third Battle of Winchester he defeated Jubal Early, while leading a scorched earth campaign aimed at crippling Confederate infrastructure in Virginia.
  - For 10 points, name this Union cavalry commander who burned the Shenandoah Valley. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play sells all of his old family pictures to a moneylender who goes by the alias "Mr. Premium." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The School for Scandal):
    Name this 1777 comedy of manners in which the wealthy Sir Charles returns from the East Indies and tests his nephews to see which is morally worthy of gaining his inheritance.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    This playwright wrote The School for Scandal. Sir Lucius O'Trigger mistakenly courts Mrs. Malaprop instead of Lydia Languish in his play The Rivals.
  Part 3 (ans: dressing screens [or folding screens]):
    In a scene from The School for Scandal, Lady Teazle hides behind one of these objects in Joseph's room. In She Stoops to Conquer, Kate's two fathers hide behind one of these objects to hear her conversation.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: After being given a royal patent, Thomas Killigrew founded the King's Company and built this theatre in Covent Garden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Theatre Royal Drury Lane):
    Name this theatre, which Colley Cibber ("SIB-er") and David Garrick managed for decades. Nell Gwyn worked in this theatre as one of England's first professional actresses before becoming the mistress of Charles II.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Macklin [or Cathal MacLochlainn or Charles McLaughlin]):
    While backstage at Drury Lane, this advocate of naturalistic acting murdered Thomas Hallam by thrusting a cane into his eye. This Irish actor's intense, menacing interpretation of Shylock terrified George II and led Alexander Pope to exclaim "This is the Jew / that Shakespeare drew."
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Sheridan [or Richard Brinsley Butler Sheridan] (The play is The School for Scandal.)):
    After buying David Garrick's share in Drury Lane, this playwright used it to stage a comedy in which the gossip-spreading Lady Sneerwell plots to disrupt Maria's engagement.

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about artists championed by art critic Clement Greenberg, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: abstract expressionism [or abstract expressionists; or AbEx; prompt on New York School; prompt on action painting or drip painting by asking "what broader movement is that a part of?"; reject "abstraction" or "expressionism"]):
    In the essay "American-Type Painting," Greenberg promoted artists from this movement, focusing particularly on the "all-over" paintings of Jackson Pollock.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank [accept Frank Bowling or Richard Sheridan Patrick Michael Aloysius Franklin Bowling; accept Frank Stella or Frank Philip Stella]):
    In the late 1960s, Greenberg befriended a Guyanese artist with this first name who created several "map paintings." Another artist with this first name used black, geometric patterns in pieces such as Die Fahne Hoch!("dee FAH-nuh HOKE").
  Part 3 (ans: flatness [or being flat; accept Superflat; prompt on being 2-dimensional or 2D]):
    Frank Stella's belief that painting must have this quality led Greenberg to call him a "post-painterly" abstract artist. The cover of Kanye West's Graduation by Takashi Murakami exemplifies a "super" form of this quality.

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a short story in which this object is found in the ruins of a Templar preceptory, a colonel walks out of the Globe Inn and throws this object "as far into the sea as a very brawny arm could send it." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the whistle from "Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad"):
    Name this bronze object with two Latin inscriptions, one of which the protagonist, Parkins, translates as "Who is this who is coming?".
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Burns [or Rabbie Burns]):
    That whistle appears in M. R. James's story "Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad," which takes its title from a poem by this author. This author's poem "To a Mouse" supplied the title of John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men.
  Part 3 (ans: Sheridan Le Fanu ("LEFF-un-yoo") [or Joseph Thomas Sheridan Le Fanu]):
    James praised this author's ability to inspire terror and wrote an introduction to his novel Uncle Silas. This Irish Gothic author wrote the vampire novella Carmilla.

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A play by this author inspired the term "malapropism" to refer to verbal mishaps, such as discussing the "geometry" of "contagious countries," through the character of Mrs. Malaprop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    Name this playwright of The Rivals and The School for Scandal.
  Part 2 (ans: allegory):
    In one malapropism, Malaprop claims that Lydia is as "headstrong" as this concept "on the banks of the Nile," confusing this concept with a similarly-named animal.
  Part 3 (ans: Dogberry [accept Dogberryism] (from Much Ado About Nothing)):
    Malapropisms are sometimes named after this Shakespearean character, stemming from his comment that "Our watch, sir, have indeed comprehended two auspicious persons."

[B6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Witnesses in this short story report hearing one French voice and one voice whose language they cannot agree on. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" (by Edgar Allan Poe)):
    Name this early locked room mystery, a short story in which the second voice is revealed to be an animal who murdered Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter Camille.
  Part 2 (ans: Sheridan Le Fanu [or Joseph Thomas Sheridan Le Fanu] (The book is Carmilla.)):
    Another candidate for the first locked room mystery is this author's "Passage in the Secret History of an Irish Countess." Dr. Hesselius's notes reveal the title character to be both Mircalla and Millarca in a book by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Sherlock Holmes [or Sherlock Holmes]):
    A snake is revealed to be the title "Speckled Band" in one of the locked room mysteries featuring this detective created by Arthur Conan Doyle.

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Following this event, London resident A. H. Burgess proposed donating books for a public library whose main branch is now named for Harold Washington. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Chicago Fire [or Great Fire of Chicago; prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this event that started on DeKoven Street and destroyed the original Palmer House, but not Mahlon Ogden's residence, St. Michael's Church, or a historic water tower.
  Part 2 (ans: martial law):
    After the Great Chicago Fire, the mayor declared this type of law to prevent looting and riots. In addition to times of disorder, this type of law is often instituted in occupied territories.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Sheridan [Philip Henry Sheridan]):
    This former Civil War general enforced martial law following the Great Chicago Fire. This short man promoted use of the military to protect Yellowstone and defeated Jubal Early at the Battle of Cedar Creek.

[B8] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Two days before this play was set to open, its lead actor, Thomas King, locked its playwright into a room with food, wine, and writing implements and forced him to finish the script. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Critic):
    Name this play in which King played the dramatist Puff. In one scene in this play, Sneer points out there's no reason Sir Walter Raleigh "should be so communicative," poking fun at exposition-laden dialogue.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    The Critic is by this author. This playwright and serial procrastinator wrote "Finished at last, Thank God!" on the last page of The School for Scandal, which he finished only after rehearsals had already started.
  Part 3 (ans: Francisco Pizarro {On opening night, Sheridan quickly wrote the play's final act upstairs while the play went on downstairs, and he would run down every ten minutes to drop off a new batch of dialogue.}):
    Sheridan completed his wildly popular play about this man during its opening night. Based on a work by August von Kotzebue, Sheridan's play depicts this man's sparing of Rolla and his duplicitous mistress, Elvira.

[B9] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's reforms include removing the then standard discount for audience members who showed up late or left a play early. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Garrick):
    Name this English actor and longtime manager of the Theatre Royal at Drury Lane. Supposedly, the expression "break a leg!" came about after he literally did so during a performance of Richard III.
  Part 2 (ans: Frances Sheridan [prompt on Sheridan]):
    Garrick is also credited with championing some women writers, such as staging this author's of The Discovery and The Dupe. Her last play A Trip to Bath remained unperformed by Garrick.
  Part 3 (ans: Isaac Bickerstaff [or Isaac Biggerstaff]):
    Garrick also began the practice of imposing fines on actors who skipped dress rehearsals, including fining Charles Dibdin who skipped those of his own opera, The Padlock. The Padlock's libretto was written by this Irishman, who shares his name with a pseudonym used by Jonathan Swift to author astrological predictions.

[B10] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Steven Rinella describes his journey to hunt one of these animals in a 2018 book subtitled In Search of a Lost Icon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: buffalo [or American bison]):
    Name this animal that was hunted relentlessly in an effort to exterminate the Plains Indians and make way for the Transcontinental Railroad.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Sheridan [or Philip Henry Sheridan]):
    Those buffalo hunts were led by William Sherman and this former Union general, who reportedly remarked "the only good Indian is a dead one". This Civil War general used "scorched-earth" tactics during his campaign in the Shenandoah Valley.
  Part 3 (ans: George Custer [or George Armstrong Custer]):
    This general massacred the Cheyenne along the Washita River as part of the buffalo extermination campaign. This man also lost a battle where the only surviving member of his regiment was a horse named Comanche.

[B11] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about collections of Gothic tales, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nippon-koku; or Nihon-koku] (The unnamed authors are Kyoka Izumi and Taro Hirai, who went by the pseudonym Edogawa Ranpo.)):
    A playwright from this country included "The Surgery Room" in a set of this country's "Gothic Tales." Lafcadio Hearn made a collection of this country's ghost stories, and an author from this country wrote detective fiction under an Edgar Allan Poe-inspired pen name.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmilla (by Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu)):
    This novella published in the collection In a Glass Darkly is presented as part of the notebook of Dr. Hesselius and concerns the supernatural experiences of Laura and General Spielsdorf.
  Part 3 (ans: Isak Dinesen ("DIN-uh-sin") [or Karen von Blixen-Finecke]):
    Miss Malin Nat-Og-Dag ("NAHT-oh-DAH") compares herself to Scheherazade seeing the dawn break at the end of "The Deluge at Norderney," the first story in this Danish author's Seven Gothic Tales.

[B12] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about scary stories:
  Part 1 (ans: Sheridan Le Fanu [the second book is Carmilla ]):
    In a novel by this author, Maud Ruthyn narrowly escapes drinking poisoned wine in a plot orchestrated by her Uncle Silas . The main character of another novella by him somehow doesn't realize that her best friend, Mircalla, and Millarca are all the same villainess.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Monkey's Paw"):
    In this scary story, Herbert White is killed in an accident at a factory, after which his family is given a two-hundred pound payment in recompense.

[B13] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Elizabeth Inchbald wasn't the only British author to have been inspired by von Kotzebue. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    This writer's play Pizarro was based on Kotzebue's Die Spanier in Peru , albeit with more of and The a direct parallel between Napoleon and Pizarro. His other plays include The Duenna Critic .
  Part 2 (ans: George Colman [the younger; or the elder, who is his father]):
    This author almost certainly borrowed a seduction scene from Kotzebue's The Writing , and his Desk . His most enduring play is perhaps John Bull, or an Englishman's Fireside identically named father worked with David Garrick as the acting manager of Covent Garden.

[B14] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One woman in this play exclaims that "libraries are vile places!" which probably explains her use of phrases like "she's as headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rivals):
    Name this play, in which the comic Mrs. Malaprop is the guardian of Lydia Languish, who falls in love with "Ensign Beverley," actually Jack Absolute in disguise.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    This 18th-century British playwright of The Rivals also wrote about the malicious Lady Sneerwell spreading rumors about an affair between Lady Teazle and the profligate Charles Surface in The School for Scandal.
  Part 3 (ans: a folding screen [prompt on descriptive answers like "room divider," do not accept or prompt on "curtain"]):
    In the fourth act of The School for Scandal, Lady Teazle hides behind one of these objects after Joseph tries to seduce her and tells her husband Peter a "little French milliner" is behind it, leading him to look.

[B15] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one scene in this play, two characters in turn hide behind a screen and inside a closet before a third character comes in and discovers the one behind the screen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The School for Scandal):
    Name this play in which Lady Sneerwell tries to use forged letters from Snake to break up the relationship between Charles Surface and Maria, who is the ward of Sir Peter Teazle.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    School for Scandal was written by this British playwright who included Dangle and Sneer's commentaries on the fictional play The Spanish Armada in The Critic.
  Part 3 (ans: portraits of family members [or paintings of family members, prompt on partial answer]):
    While masquerading as a moneylender in School for Scandal Oliver Surface watches with horror as Charles auctions off these objects, but forgives him when he refuses to auction off a specific one.

[B16] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After a poor premiere, this play's author revised it, reducing the role of Sir Lucius. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rivals):
    Name this play in which Jack Absolute courts Lydia Languish by pretending to be a poor soldier named Ensign Beverley. This play's character Mrs. Malaprop is the origin of the term "malapropism."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard (Brinsley) Sheridan):
    This 18th-century playwright wrote The Rivals. He took over David Garrick's Drury Lane Theatre, which premiered his play about Joseph Surface and Lady Teazle, titled The School for Scandal.
  Part 3 (ans: Ireland):
    Sheridan was born in what is now this country. Sean O'Casey is a playwright from this country who wrote about the 1916 Easter Rising in his play The Plough and the Stars.

[B17] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: After this character fails to secure a hotel booking at Hastings, he books a romantic weekend with Annie in the far less glamorous town of East Grinstead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Norman):
    Name this would-be Lothario, who kisses his uptight sister-in-law Sarah in Round and Round the Garden and seduces his own short-sighted wife Ruth on a rug in Living Together.
  Part 2 (ans: Alan Ayckbourn):
    Norman appears in the Norman Conquests trilogy by this ultra-prolific British playwright, known for his association with the Stephen Joseph Theatre in Scarborough. His other plays include Absurd Person Singular and House & Garden.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    Alan Ayckbourn's A Trip to Scarborough is an update of a play of the same name by this 18th-century Irish playwright, the author of The Rivals.

[B18] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a dramatic work by this author, the playwright Mr. Puff explains that the best scene in his play is one in which an actor enters the stage, sits down, comes forward, shakes his head, and then leaves. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan [or Richard Brinsley Butler Sheridan]):
    Name this author of The Critic, in which actors rehearse a play-within-a-play called The Spanish Armada. His other plays include The Rivals and The School for Scandal.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    George Villiers's play The Rehearsal uses the character of Bayes to satirize this author, who wrote The Conquest of Grenada. In retaliation, this man portrayed Villiers as Zimri in one of his poems.
  Part 3 (ans: Michael Frayn):
    In this contemporary playwright's Noises Off, Dotty Otley and Brooke Ashton rehearse a bedroom farce directed by Lloyd Dallas. His other plays include Democracy.

[B19] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: After the Civil War, this general served as president of the Southern Historical Society and popularized the Lost Cause theory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jubal Anderson Early):
    Name this Confederate general, Robert E. Lee's "bad old man," who was decisively defeated in the Shenandoah Valley campaign.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Henry Sheridan):
    Early was defeated in the Shenandoah by this Union cavalry officer. While conducting a raid on Richmond, his troops killed J.E.B. Stuart at Yellow Tavern.
  Part 3 (ans: Governor of Texas):
    As a military commander during reconstruction, Sheridan removed James Throckmorton from this office and replacing him with Elisha Pease. Pease was himself succeeded in this office by radical republican Edmund Davis.

[B20] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author's Bruckner-like constant revisions of this play resulted in several extant versions, one of which has Miss Verjuice replace Snake as the female antagonist's accomplice. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The School for Scandal):
    Identify this 1777 play in which Lady Sneerwell and Joseph Surface plot to break up the relationship between Charles Surface and Maria, the ward of Peter Teazle, by accusing the former of having an affair.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    The School for Scandal was written by this Irish playwright of The Critic, whose play The Rivals features the memorable Mrs. Malaprop.
  Part 3 (ans: David Garrick):
    Sheridan bought a share of the Drury Lane patent from this longtime manager of that theater, an actor who organized the 1769 Shakespeare Jubilee and wrote the prologue to Goldsmith's She Stoops to Conquer.

[B21] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This group published The Anarchiad. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hartford Wits [or The Connecticut Wits; or The Yale Group]):
    Name this group of doggerel-shitters that critiqued post-Revolutionary War politics. Members included John Trumbull and David Humphreys.
  Part 2 (ans: Joel Barlow):
    This Hartford Wit was the author of the mock-heroic 'The Hasty Pudding' and the actual epic The Vision of Columbus. He also helped draft the Treaty of Tripoli.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Brinsley Sheridan):
    A contemporary of the Wits, Royall Tyler, wrote the first American comedy to be professionally produced, The Contrast. It was written in the style of this author's The School for Scandal.

[B22] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: In the last episode of this show's first season, Abu Nazir orders one protagonist to eliminate Tom Walker, while the other is forced to undergo electroconvulsive therapy in an effort to cure her bipolar disorder. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Homeland):
    Identify this Showtime series, starring Claire Danes as CIA officer Carrie Mathison, who is obsessed with investigating the Damian Lewis-portrayed Nicholas Brody, a U.S. Marine and former Al Qaeda captive.
  Part 2 (ans: Jamey Sheridan [or James Patrick Sheridan]):
    On Homeland, Vice President Walden is played by this actor, who spent five seasons as Captain James Deakins, the head of the Major Case Squad, on Law & Order: Criminal Intent.
  Part 3 (ans: Life):
    Damian Lewis also starred alongside Sarah Shahi and Donal Logue in this underrated NBC series. Lewis played Charlie Crews, a police officer who spent twelve years in prison after being framed for murder.

[B23] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The play in which this character appears begins in her house as she talks with a sidekick, Snake, about a rumor involving Lady Brittle and Captain Boastall. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Sneerwell):
    Name this gossiping widow who plots to break up Charles and Maria so that she can have Charles to herself. Lady Teazle eventually turns Snake against this woman.
  Part 2 (ans: The School for Scandal):
    Lady Sneerwell is one of the main characters in this comedy that tells of Benjamin Backbite's pursuit of Maria despite Maria's love for Charles Surface.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Brinsley Butler Sheridan):
    The School for Scandal was written by this playwright who wrote A Trip to Scarborough and The Rivals.

[B24] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character holds a piece of bread and butter while supervising the hanging of a marquee by four workmen, and is horrified when a delivery man from Godber's bakery tells of a man who fell off his horse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Laura Sheridan [or Laura Sheridan; do not accept "Mrs. Sheridan," who is Laura's mother, or "Laurie", who is Laura's brother]):
    Name this sister of Jose, a girl who is often complimented on her black hat trimmed with gold daisies and a long velvet ribbon. She delivers a basket of food to the Scott residence.
  Part 2 (ans: Katherine Mansfield Beauchamp [or Katherine Beauchamp; or Katherine Murry; or Lili Heron]):
    This New Zealand short story author wrote about Laura Sheridan's concern for the recently-deceased Mr. Scott in "The Garden Party".
  Part 3 (ans: the band of musicians at the garden party):
    In Mansfield's "The Garden Party," this group of people is described as "too like frogs for words" by Kitty Maitland, due to their green coats. Laura begs her father to give these people drinks.

[B25] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character holds a piece of bread and butter while supervising the hanging of a marquee by four workmen, and is horrified when a delivery man from Godber's bakery tells of a man who fell off his horse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Laura Sheridan [or Laura Sheridan; do not accept "Mrs. Sheridan," who is Laura's mother, or "Laurie", who is Laura's brother]):
    Name this sister of Jose, a girl who is often complimented on her black hat trimmed with gold daisies and a long velvet ribbon. She delivers a basket of food to the Scott residence.
  Part 2 (ans: Katherine Mansfield Beauchamp [or Katherine Beauchamp; or Katherine Murry; or Lili Heron]):
    This New Zealand short story author wrote about Laura Sheridan's concern for the recently-deceased Mr. Scott in "The Garden Party".
  Part 3 (ans: the band of musicians at the garden party):
    In Mansfield's "The Garden Party," this group of people is described as "too like frogs for words" by Kitty Maitland, due to their green coats. Laura begs her father to give these people drinks.
