=== STOCK CLUES: Yeats ===
Tossup questions: 24 found, 90 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 56 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: "Poetry" (Rekdal's book is titled Real Toads, Imaginary Gardens. Yeats called Blake a "too literal realist of the imagination.")
  - A line from this poem titles Paisley Rekdal's 2024 book on reading and writing "forensically." This poem quotes Tolstoy's diary in a line about "business documents and school-books" and borrows a critical description by Yeats of William Blake.
  - This poem's list of things "we cannot understand" includes "the baseball fan, the statistician," and "the immovable critic twinkling his skin." This poem, which its author radically abridged to just three lines for the collection Complete Poems, claims that there is "after all, a place for the genuine" in its subject.
  - This poem imagines a time when "the autocrats among us" can be "literalists of the imagination" and present "imaginary gardens with real toads in them." For 10 points, the claim "I too, dislike it" opens what poem by Marianne Moore? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Answer: William Butler Yeats and Alistair Crowley
  - Two answers required. [PWR]
  - In a Richard Ellmann essay describing these two people, "the forces of good struck out with their feet and kicked [one of these people] downstairs" at "The Battle of Blythe Road." Althea Gyles stole a hair from one of these people, and brought it to the other, to curse the first of these people with a vampire. [PWR]
  - The pornographic poems of one of these men include "Hymn to Pan," while the other lamented "decrepit age that has been tied to me as to a dog's tail" in a poem describing a (*) tarot card. [PWR]
  - These members of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn feuded over whether one of them was using black magic.
  - One of these men then created the order of Thelema, while the other wrote "The Tower." For 10 points, name these two men, one of whom may have described the other, a famous occultist, as a "rough beast" that "slouches towards Bethlehem to be born" in "The Second Coming." [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats (The unnamed poem in the giveaway is "The Second Coming.")
  - In a story by this author, one character is "drowned in a tide of green and blue and bronze feathers" after trying to strike a man with an alembic. [PWR]
  - That story's narrator dances atop an image of Christ with an inhuman, soul-sucking woman who has "black lilies in her hair." As explained in a "Reader's Guide" by Neil Mann, this author characterized God as the "Thirteenth Cone" in a work that presents a wheel on which four "faculties" and 28 "incarnations" are related to phases of the moon.
  - A character in this author's story (*) "Rosa Alchemica" titles a poem in which a woman remarks, "My wretched dragon is perplexed." The second essay in Axel's Castle discusses this author's mystical tract A Vision, which borrows from the automatic writing of his wife George Hyde-Lees and posits "double gyres." For 10 points, name this author of "Michael Robartes and the Dancer" and a poem beginning, "Turning and turning in the widening gyre." [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats (the six-line poem is "To William Butler Yeats on Tagore" by Marianne Moore)
  - A poem subtitled for this person ends with the image of "night breezes drum on the plantain leaf: / Let the plantain leaf take over the dance." That poem dedicated to this person declares that "the time has come O Poet, / To decant your praise-names." A six-line poem that responds to an essay by this author ends with "the jewel that always / outshines ordinary jewels, is your praise." Another poem dedicated to this author is in the form of a Yoruba praise song and repeats, "They thought you would stop pursuing the (*) white elephant." This author praised the "subtlety of rhythm" and "delicacies of colour" in a manuscript that he would close in trains and restaurants "lest some stranger would see how much it moved me." The (*) centenary of this poet's birth is celebrated in "Lament of the Masks" by Christopher Okigbo. [PWR]
  - This author wrote that "these prose translations ... have stirred my blood as nothing has for years" in his preface to Gitanjali.
  - For 10 points, a line of poetry from what author titles a novel about the yam farmer Okonkwo, Things Fall Apart? [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]
  - The speaker of a poem addressed to this poet repeats, "They thought you would stop pursuing the white elephant." The end of Derek Walcott's poem "Six Fictions" references a poem by this author in which the speaker says, "Now my heart is sore." Christopher Okigbo's "Lament of the Masks" celebrates this poet's centenary. [PWR]
  - A line by this poet titles a [emphasize] different author's novel in which a boy cries to his father, "They have killed me!" before being cut down by a machete. [PWR]
  - This author wrote that certain lines (*) "stirred my blood as nothing has for years" in his preface to Gitanjali. [PWR]
  - In a novel that takes its title from this poet, a man beats his wife during the Week of Peace in Umuofia .
  - For 10 points, a Chinua Achebe novel takes its title from what author's line "Things fall apart" in his poem "The Second Coming"? [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats' introduction to Gitanjali ("ghee-TAHN-juh-lee") [or the preface to Gitanjali; reject "Gitanjali"] {The Marianne Moore poem is "To William Butler Yeats on Tagore."}
  - This essay compares "long books where no page perhaps has any quality to make writing a pleasure" to fighting, making money, and politics, "all dull things in the doing." This essay notes that the writing of European saints has not held the public attention since the Renaissance, claiming that the modern reader sees little in the "violent rhetoric of the Book of Revelations." Marianne Moore said "it pays, / To cut gems even in these conscience-less days" in a six-line poem written in response to this essay.
  - This essay's author recalls having to (*) set down a book on trains and buses so that people would not see how much the book moved him to tears.
  - This essay ends by quoting a passage that states "They build their houses with sand and they play with empty shells" and "Children have their play on the seashore of worlds." For 10 points, what 1912 essay by an Irish poet praises a collection by Rabindranath Tagore? [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Easter Rising [or Easter Rebellion or Eiri Amach na Casca or Eiri Amach 1916 or Aiseiri na Casca; prompt on Easter, 1916 by asking, "What event occurred on that day?"; prompt on The Rising] (The first clue is about Yeats's "Sixteen Dead Men.")
  - A ballad about this event ends by contemplating people who "meddle with our give and take / That converse bone to bone." Before his death in this event, a poet wrote, "The beauty of the world hath made me sad" in "The Wayfarer." Another speaker asks, "Was it needless death after all?" and mourns how "Too long a sacrifice / Can make a stone of the heart" in a poem about this event that describes a (*) "drunken, vainglorious lout" who "too, has resigned his part / In the casual comedy." That speaker regrets their "polite meaningless words" after meeting participants in this conflict "at close of day / Coming with vivid faces." A poem about this conflict repeats that "a terrible beauty is born" after the martyrdoms of "MacDonagh and MacBride / And Connolly and Pearse." For 10 points, what 1916 Irish insurrection is the subject of a W. [PWR,GIVE]
  - B.
  - Yeats poem?

[T8] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - One of this poet's speakers grows "as weary hearted as that hollow moon" after he "[talks] of poetry" with a "beautiful mild woman." Another of this poet's speakers remarks that his love "taught to ignorant men most violent ways" before asking "Was there another Troy for her to burn?" This poet of "Adam's Curse" "[numbers] in song" a (*) "drunken, vain-glorious lout" who "has resigned his part/In the casual comedy." In that poem, this writer mentions a woman who spent "nights in argument/until her voice grew shrill" after saying "polite meaningless words." This poet mourns the death of John MacBride and James Connolly in that poem which repeats the line "A terrible beauty is born." For 10 points, name this unrequited lover of Maud Gonne, an Irish poet who wrote "Easter, 1916." [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats ("yates") [or W. B. Yeats]
  - This author included a poem about a treasurer who receives a bride from the Caliph, titled "The Gift of Harun al-Raschid," in a book featuring the spirit of Leo Africanus. [PWR]
  - This Theosophist made automatic writing with his wife Georgie. [PWR]
  - This poet's collection A Wind Among the Reeds features his recurring character Aedh wishing for "cloths of heaven". [PWR]
  - This poet wrote that "peace comes dropping slow / dropping from the veils of the morning" in a place where noon has a (*) "purple glow" in a poem which refers to Tarot numerology with its line about planting "nine-bean rows" near a "small cabin". [PWR]
  - His world-view centered on the "gyres" in which the world is "turning and turning" in his best-known poem.
  - The line "I will arise and go now" begins the poem "The Lake Isle of Innisfree" by, for 10 points, what poet of "The Second Coming"? [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: W (illiam) B (utler) Yeats
  - A poem by this author repeats the refrain "I carry the sun in a golden cup. / The moon in a silver bag." That poem by this author begins, "Come, let me sing into your ear; / those dancing days are gone." A poem by this author describes three people who "sat grown quiet at the name of love" and laments a time when "it all had seemed happy, and yet we'd grown / as weary-hearted as that hollow moon." This poet asks the reader to (*) "take down this book, / and slowly read, and dream of the soft look / your eyes had once" in his poem "When You Are Old." One poem by this author of "Adam's Curse" ends with the lines "I must lie down where all the ladders start / in the foul rag and bone shop of the heart," while another concludes "How can we know the dancer from the dance?" "Among School Children" and "The Circus Animals' Desertion" were written by-for 10 points-what Irish poet? [PWR,GIVE]

[T11] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats <GDC>
  - This poet ended one work with a refrain inspired by Archibald MacLeish's commentary on a 16th Century poem, 'But O that I were young again/And held her in my arms'.
  - Another poem by this author claims that 'Lion and woman and the Lord knows what' are all on show and ends with the narrator saying he must 'lie down where all the ladders start/In the foul rag and bone shop of the heart'.
  - This author of the poem 'Politics' wrote a work in which the narrator implores the reader to 'tread softly, because you tread on my dreams'.
  - This author wrote a work in which they claim Connolly and Pearse ['purse'] 'are changed, changed utterly: A terrible beauty is born.' For 10 points, name this Irish poet, who wrote 'The Wild Swans at Coole' and 'Easter, 1916'. [GIVE]

[T12] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - This poet sadly realizes that he has rambled about an "image of air: / Vague memories, nothing but memories," at the end of a sequence of eight poems reflecting upon an aging woman whom he called "his phoenix." This author wrote of his generation that "we are but critics, or but half create," in a poem structured as a dialogue between Hic and Ille, which takes its Latin title from Dante's La vita nuova.
  - The same volume by this author includes a poetic dialogue between a "shepherd and goatherd" among three elegies for his friend's son.
  - In another of those elegies, this poet of "Ego Dominus Tuus" wrote of "a waste of breath the years behind / In balance with this life, this death." This author removed the play At the Hawk's Well before he republished a collection whose title poem describes animals that "scatter wheeling in great broken rings / Upon their clamorous wings." For 10 points, name this Irish poet who wrote of seeing "nine-and-fifty" of the title birds in "The Wild Swans at Coole." [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - The sixth stanza of a poem by this author describes the thought of various classical thinkers, stating "Plato thought nature but a spume." That poem by this author goes on to describe how "labour is blossoming or dancing / where the body is not brFuised." Another poem by this author describes how "masterful Heaven intervened" to prevent a "pity-crazed" character this author created from giving "her soul away." The speaker of that poem by this poet states "I sought a (*) theme and sought for it in vain." Another poem by this author describes a "lion body with the head of a man" that appears as a "vast image out of Spiritus Mundi." This poet of "The Circus Animals Desertion" and "Among School Children" also wrote a poem that claims "Things fall apart; the center cannot hold." For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "The Second Coming". [PWR,GIVE]

[T14] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: W. B. Yeats
  - In a play by this author, an old man travels to his burned-out childhood home, where he watches the ghosts of his parents reenact the consummation of their marriage. [PWR]
  - At the end of one of his plays, an old woman observes that "The years like great black oxen tread the world... [PWR]
  - And I am broken by their passing feet," in a speech in which she begs to join her mistress in heaven.
  - A play by this author of Purgatory features Oona's song "Who will go drive with (*) Fergus now," which was set to music by James Joyce. [PWR]
  - A noblewoman sells her soul to save famine victims in a play by this author, who adapted the conventions of Noh theater to dramatize a myth about Cuchulainn in At the Hawk's Well.
  - This author premiered his verse drama The Countess Cathleen at the Abbey Theater, which he co-founded with Edward Martyn and Lady Gregory.
  - For 10 points, name this godfather of Irish theater, who also wrote poems such as "The Second Coming." [GIVE]

[T15] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]
  - A poem by this author notes that "Nor law, nor duty bade me fight," but rather "A lonely impulse of delight." That poem, which like the one before it in the same collection, was inspired by the death of this author's friend Lady Augusta Gregory's son, sees its protagonist say that his "country is Kiltartan Cross." In another poem by this author, the title figures "Unwearied still, lover by lover...
  - (*) paddle in the cold;" that poem features "nine-and-fifty" of the title birds.
  - In another of this author's poems, "The ceremony of innocence is drowned" and "the center cannot hold" as a "rough beast...Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born." For 10 points, name this author of "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death," "The Wild Swans at Coole," and "The Second Coming." [GIVE]

[T16] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - A poem by this author has stanzas about Julius Caesar, Helen of Troy, and Michelangelo, each of whom has a mind which "moves upon silence," like the title animal "upon the stream." He used the phrase "World-Besotted Traveler" in his translation of the epitaph which Jonathan Swift wrote for himself.
  - He used the last three lines of one of his poems for his own epitaph,"Cast a cold eye on life, on death.
  - Horseman, pass by!" This author of "Long-Legged Fly" wrote a poem whose speaker hears water "in the deep heart's core." That poem describes how "peace comes dropping slow" in a place where "midnight's all a glimmer" and where the speaker plans to plant "nine bean rows." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "I will arise and go now" in his poem "The Lake Isle of Innisfree." [GIVE]

[T17] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - A poem by this man describes "how love fled ... and hid his face amid a crowd of stars".
  - The narrator of another poem by this man bemoans that "those ...
  - I guard I do not love" and speaks of the "lonely impulse of delight" that "drove to this tumult in the skies".
  - Cormac McCarthy used the first line of another poem as the title of his No Country for Old Men.
  - In another poem, this man describes the "rough beast" that "slouches towards Bethlehem to be born".
  - For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death", "When You Are Old", "Sailing to Byzantium", and "The Second Coming." [GIVE]

[T18] 2014 Gorilla Lit (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - One of this man's poems is titled after a character who will "hear no more the lowing of the valves on the warm hillside" or "see the brown mice bob round and round the oatmeal chest." That poem is set at a "leafy island where flapping herons wake the drowsy water rats" and where hidden fairy vats are "full of berries and of the reddest stolen cherries." That poem by this man includes a refrain telling a "human child" to come away because "the world's more full of weeping than you can understand." The narrator of a second poem notes that (*) "the years to come seemed waste of breath, a waste of breath the years behind." That narrator says "no likely end could bring them loss or leave them happier than before" after claiming "those that I fight I do not hate those that I guard I do not love." That poem by this man concerns a man driven to the clouds by "a lonely impulse of delight." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Stolen Child" who wrote "I know that I shall meet my fate somewhere among the clouds above" in his poem an "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death." [GIVE]

[T19] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "In Memory of W.B. Yeats"
  - This poem is analyzed in the first chapter of Edward Mendelson's book on the "Later" works of its poet. [PWR]
  - In this poem, the future is described as a time when "each in the cell of himself is almost convinced of his freedom". [PWR]
  - This poem describes an entity that "survives / In the valley of its making where executives / Would never want to tamper".
  - This poem says that "poetry makes nothing happen" shortly after telling its addressee: "You were silly like us; your gift (*) survived it all".
  - Its fourth and final section is in quatrains of rhymed couplets, and ends: "In the prison of his days / Teach the free man how to praise".
  - This poem repeatedly declares: "What instruments we have agree" that it was "a dark cold day" when a figure called "the Irish vessel...emptied of its poetry" died.
  - For 10 points, name this W.H. [GIVE]
  - Auden poem about the passing of a certain fellow poet.

[T20] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - A poem by this author remembers a man who "loved his learning better than mankind" named Lionel Johnson.
  - This author of "In Memory of Major Robert Gregory" tells the reader to "take down this book, and slowly read, and dream of the soft look your eyes had once" in the poem "When You Are Old." In another poem, he laments that he can "but enumerate old themes" and resolves to lie down in "the foul rag and bone shop of the heart." In another poem by this author, the speaker observes "nine-and-fifty" of the title birds swimming.
  - This poet of "The Circus Animals' Desertion" also wrote a poem in which a "rough beast ... slouches towards Bethlehem to be born." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Wild Swans at Coole" and "The Second Coming." [GIVE]

[T21] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - Responding to "Dover Beach," this author wrote "There's keen delight in what we have: The rattle of pebbles on the shore under the receding wave" in his poem "The Nineteenth Century and After." This author wrote a series of poems about a woman whose "breasts are flat and fallen now" according to a Bishop encountered on the road who states that "Love has pitched his mansion in/The place of excrement." This author of the (*) Crazy Jane poems described a group of animals that "paddle in the cold" in one poem, and stated that "All changed, changed utterly/A terrible beauty is born" in a poem about a political uprising.
  - For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "Easter 1916" who declared "This is no country for old men" in "Sailing to Byzantium." [GIVE]

[T22] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Yeats' introduction to Gitanjali (prompt on Gitanjali, accept synonyms for introduction)
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - This work asks "What have we in common with St.
  - Bernard covering his eyes" or with "the violent rhetoric of the Book of Revelation?" This essay mentions how, for generations, great men have come out of a certain cradle, but none so great as the one described, whose admirers so filled a church that the street outside was choked with people.
  - The speaker of this prose work claims that, had one lived under Richard II and wanted to learn about ($) Petrarch or Dante, he would ask a Florentine baker or a Lombard merchant. [PWR]
  - The author of this essay mentions how he did not wish people in restaurants or atop omnibuses to see how much he was moved by the book he was reading. [PWR]
  - To end this essay, the author borrows a passage about (*) children on the seashore, and it mentions how a certain work stirred its author's blood as nothing had in years. [PWR]
  - Soon after reading this work, one encounters the line "Thou hast made me endless, such is thy pleasure." For ten points, identify this prose work by William Butler Yeats, which prefaces a poetry collection by Rabindranath Tagore. [GIVE]

[T23] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - One poem by this author describes a sculptor "Who handled marble as if it were bronze," and "Made draperies that seemed to rise / when sea-wind swept the corner".
  - That poem by him mentions "King Billy bomb-balls" who will leave the town "beaten flat".
  - The speaker of one of his poems asks sages to consume his heart away and become the singing-masters of his soul.
  - One of his poems opens with the speaker recounting "I have heard that hysterical women say / they are sick of the palette and fiddle-bow" and ends with a description of three carved Chinamen, whose "ancient, glittering eyes, are gay".
  - Another poem by him states that "unless Soul / clap its hands and sing", "an aged man is but a paltry thing", and opens "That is no country for old men".
  - For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "Lapis Lazuli" and "Sailing to Byzantium". [GIVE]

[T24] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Butler Yeats
  - This poet described "Heaven blazing into the head: / Tragedy wrought to its uttermost" before "all the drop-scenes drop at once / Upon a hundred thousand stages." Another of this poet's works explains that "Too long a sacrifice / Can make a stone of the heart," and that work's narrator recalls saying "polite meaningless words" to people who were later executed.
  - The former poem by this author notes, "All things fall and are built again," and describes how (*) "ancient, glittering eyes, are gay." This poet described "Two Chinamen, behind them a third," carved into the title stone of one poem, while in another poem he repeatedly notes, "A terrible beauty is born," in describing the title uprising.
  - Those poems by this man are "Lapis Lazuli" and "Easter, 1916." For 10 points, name this poet who described a place "that is no country for old men" in "Sailing to Byzantium." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker reflects that "now my heart is sore" after seeing these "brilliant creatures." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: swans [accept "The Wild Swans at Coole"; accept "Leda and the Swan"; prompt on birds]):
    Name these animals, of which the speaker sees "nine-and-fifty" in that poem. In a poem partly titled for these animals, the speaker imagines "The broken wall, the burning roof and tower" engendered by one of these animals.
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    "The Wild Swans at Coole" and "Leda and the Swan" are by this Irish poet who also wrote "The Second Coming" and "Sailing to Byzantium."
  Part 3 (ans: Stevie Smith [or Florence Margaret Smith] (The poem is "Not Waving but Drowning.")):
    This poet described a swan "Like a cake / Of soap" who has "abandoned hope" in the poem "The Bereaved Swan." This poet's best-known poem opens, "Nobody heard him, the dead man" and claims "I was much too far out all my life."

[B2] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet asked that his gravestone bear the words "Horseman, pass by" in his poem "Under Ben Bulben." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Name this subject of a W. H. Auden poem which begins "he disappeared in the dead of winter." He wrote "this is no country for old men" in "Sailing to Byzantium."
  Part 2 (ans: dark AND cold [accept "the day of his death was a dark cold day"]):
    Two answers required. Two different times, W. H. Auden's poem "In Memory of W. B. Yeats" uses these two adjectives to describe "the day of his death."
  Part 3 (ans: Theodore Roethke (The latter poem is "Elegy for Jane.")):
    This author's poem "The Dying Man," about Yeats's death, declares that "I am that final thing / A man learning to sing." In a poem mourning another death, this author says he has "no rights in this matter," as he is "neither father nor lover."

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In his book Passionate Action, David Richman describes this author's relationship with theatre as "a struggle for mastery against a set of conventions that he both adored and loathed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Name this co-founder of the Abbey Theatre who also wrote "things fall apart; the center cannot hold" in "The Second Coming."
  Part 2 (ans: The Plough and the Stars):
    Yeats said "You have disgraced yourselves again" after riots broke out at the Abbey Theatre during this play. In this Sean O'Casey play, Nora goes mad after her husband is killed during the 1916 Easter Rising.
  Part 3 (ans: Brian Friel(The first play mentioned is Dancing at Lughnasa.)):
    Five sisters sing a version of Yeats's "Down by the Salley Gardens" in one play by this author. This author's play Translations opens in a hedge school in the fictional town Baile Beag ("BALL-eh byog").

[B4] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem dedicated to this poet infamously claims that "Poetry makes nothing happen" but that it "survives, / A way of happening." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats; accept "In Memory of W. B. Yeats"]):
    Name this poet who "disappeared in the dead of winter" and died "on a dark cold day" according to an elegy by W. H. Auden.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Brodsky [or Iosif Alexandrovich Brodsky]):
    In a reference to Auden, this poet wrote, "He died at start of year, in January" in "Verses on the Death of T. S. Eliot." The title poet "has sunk in sleep" in this poet's "Elegy for John Donne."
  Part 3 (ans: "Audenesque"):
    This poem opens, "Joseph, yes, you know the beat" and describes how "Wysten Auden's metric feet" laid "William Yeats to rest." This Seamus Heaney poem memorializes Brodsky on the anniversary of Yeats's death.

[B5] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem by this author bitterly asks, "What later purge from this deep toxin cures? / What kindness now could the old salve renew?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Empson (The book is Seven Types of Ambiguity.)):
    Name this poet who wrote "the waste remains and kills" in "Missing Dates," which helped repopularize the villanelle. A book by this critic opens with several interpretations of Shakespeare's image of "bare-ruined choirs."
  Part 2 (ans: Leda [accept "Request to Leda"; accept "Leda and the Swan"] ("Leda and the Swan" is by W. B. Yeats.)):
    Empson's villanelles were parodied by his friend Dylan Thomas in a poem addressed to this woman. A 15-line sonnet titled for this woman predicts "the burning roof and tower / And Agamemnon dead."
  Part 3 (ans: October [accept "Especially when the October Wind" or "Poem in October"; reject answers like "fall" or "autumn"]):
    Before parodying Empson's use of the word "chemic" in "Request to Leda," Thomas used it in a poem about this period's wind. Thomas marked his "thirtieth year to heaven" with a "place poem" titled for this time period.

[B6] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Although this poem is often interpreted as an autobiographical lament, Mary L. Dudy proposed that its virtuosic composition is intentionally ironic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Circus Animals' Desertion"):
    Name this poem which references its title figures in the lines "those stilted boys, that burnished chariot / Lion and woman and the Lord knows what". This poem begins "I sought a theme and sought for it in vain".
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats ("yayts") [or W. B. Yeats]):
    "The Circus Animals' Desertion" is by this Irish poet who also wrote "The Wanderings of Oisin" ("oh-SHEEN") and "The Second Coming".
  Part 3 (ans: the heart (The other poem is "Sailing to Byzantium".)):
    The end of "The Circus Animals' Desertion" references the "foul rag and bone shop of" this object. Another Yeats poem describes this entity as "fastened to a dying animal / It knows not what it is".

[B7] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A collection of "Four Plays for" these people includes At the Hawk's Well, a play inspired by noh theater. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dancer [accept Four Plays for Dancers; accept Michael Robartes and the Dancer]):
    Name this type of person that, along with Michael Robartes ("ROH-barts"), titles a collection that contains the poems "The Rose Tree" and "A Prayer for My Daughter."
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats [or W. B. Yeats]):
    This Irish author of Four Plays for Dancers collected his poem "The Second Coming" in Michael Robartes and the Dancer.
  Part 3 (ans: "Among School Children"):
    The speaker walks through classrooms asking questions in this poem by Yeats, which ends with the question,"How can we know the dancer from the dance?"

[B8] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of a play by this author has her fortune stolen by two devils disguised as merchants, but ultimately ascends to Heaven upon her death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: W. B. Yeats [William Butler Yeats]):
    Name this Irish author who also wrote the poems The Second Coming and The Wild Swans at Coole.
  Part 2 (ans: The Countess Cathleen):
    Lady Gregory raised money for the theater that premiered this play by Yeats. The title noblewoman of this play sells her soul to feed the starving tenants on her land in Ireland.
  Part 3 (ans: Maria Edgeworth):
    This Anglo-Irish novelist depicted the decline of a landowning family that mismanages their estate in Ireland, told through the eyes of the steward Thady Quirk, in the novel Castle Rackrent.

[B9] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet published his first major collection in 1966, and would go on to win the Nobel prize in literature in 1995. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    Name this Irish poet known for his work that focused on the natural surroundings of Ireland.
  Part 2 (ans: Digging):
    In this Heaney poem, he describes his father and grandfather's ability to "cut turf," and contrasts this with his ability to write instead, stating that he will do the title action with his pen.
  Part 3 (ans: WB Yeats):
    Heaney was greatly influenced by this other Irish poet, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature in 1923. In one poem of his, he describes the "Second Coming," and in another he states that he will "arise and go now, and go to Innisfree..."

[B10] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: After the work of Ernest Fenollosa introduced him to a foreign genre of theater, this author wrote a play that begins with musicians evoking a place that "the salt sea wind has swept bare." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Name this writer whose 1916 play At the Hawk's Well was heavily influenced by Japanese Noh dramas.
  Part 2 (ans: Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound]):
    Yeats was introduced to Fenollosa and the Noh drama through this Modernist poet of the Cantos and the haiku-like "In a Station of the Metro."
  Part 3 (ans: self and soul [or "A Dialogue of Self and Soul"]):
    A "razor-keen" katana given to Yeats by Junzo Sato partly inspired a poem in the form of a dialogue between these two concepts. The second of these two concepts defiantly asserts "a charter to commit the crime once more."

[B11] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem in a collection titled for one of these places thinks of finding "a faithful love" "when cradle and spool are past / And I mere shade at last." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: towers [accept The Tower] (The poem is "Leda and the Swan.")):
    "The Fool By The Roadside" is found in a collection titled for what type of place? Another poem in that collection mentions "a sudden blow" and "a shudder in the loins" before describing "Agamemnon dead."
  Part 2 (ans: "Sailing to Byzantium"):
    This poem from The Tower asks "sages standing in God's holy fire" to "consume my heart away" after describing "a tattered coat upon a stick."
  Part 3 (ans: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]):
    The Tower was by this poet who wrote that "Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold" in "The Second Coming."

[B12] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: James Orr, a poet from this region, belonged to a group of working-class vernacular "rhyming" poets in the late 18th century. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ulster [or Ulaidh or Ulster or Cuige Uladh; accept County Antrim or Contae Aontroma or Coontie Antrim; accept Honest Ulstermen or Ulster Movement or Ulster Renaissance; prompt on Northern Ireland or Tuaisceart Eireann or Norlin Airlann; prompt on Eire or Republic of Ireland or Poblacht na hEireann; prompt on UK or United Kingdom] (James Orr was called the "Bard of Ballycarry." At the Hawk's Well is by W. B. Yeats and portrays Cu Chulainn.)):
    What region names a poetic group of "honest men" that included Philip Hobsbaum and Michael Longley? A character from this region meets an Old Man beside a desolate mountain in the play At the Hawk's Well.
  Part 2 (ans: weavers [or weaving; accept textile workers; accept Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe; accept weaver poets; prompt on craftsmen or artisans] (George Eliot wrote Silas Marner.)):
    Many of Ulster's vernacular 18th-century poets belonged to this profession. A novel's title character with this profession is excommunicated by the Calvinist congregation in Lantern Yard before he adopts a young girl.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Burns [or Rabbie Burns; accept Burns Supper or Burns Night or Burns Nicht]):
    This author, who was a major influence on Ulster's weaver poets, wrote "To the Weavers Gin Ye Go" and "The Gallant Weaver" in vernacular Scots. Annual suppers honor this Scottish poet of "To a Mouse."

[B13] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Many poems in Niyi Osundare's collection The Eye of the Earth, such as "Harvest Call," adapt the conventions of this genre to English poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: praise poetry [or praise songs]):
    Give this genre whose forms include the Zulu izibongo, Tswana maboko, and Yoruba oriki. Named for an English verb, its poems often consist of a series of colorful epithets for a deity or ruler.
  Part 2 (ans: Wole Soyinka ("SHO-yin-kuh") [or Akinwande Oluwole Babatunde Soyinka]):
    This Yoruba poet of "Telephone Conversation" wrote the oriki poem "Dawn," one of his many works praising the orisha Ogun. A praise-singer appears in his play Death and the King's Horseman.
  Part 3 (ans: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats; accept "In Memory of W. B. Yeats"]):
    Christopher Okigbo drew on the oriki form to eulogize this poet in "Lament of the Masks." The couplet "In the prison of his days / Teach the free man how to praise" ends W. H. Auden's poem eulogizing this poet.

[B14] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: William Blake said that this faculty was "not a state" but "human existence itself" and later wrote to Reverend John Trusler that "nature is [this faculty] itself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: imagination [accept word forms like imagining] (Yeats called Blake a "too literal realist of the imagination.")):
    Name this faculty that Blake and other Romantic poets contrasted with "fancy." Marianne Moore's poem "Poetry" paraphrases a W. B. Yeats quote about Blake in its description of "literalists" of this faculty.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    In his Biographia Literaria, this contemporary of Blake defined imagination as "esemplastic power." The Swedenborgian patron C. A. Tulk introduced Blake to this poet of "Kubla Khan."
  Part 3 (ans: mind-forg'd [or mind-forged]):
    Blake's poem "London" reflects on how society self-imposes restrictions on imagination, most notably when its speaker says that, "In every cry of every Man," he hears "manacles" described by this compound adjective.

[B15] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem remarks, "Plato thought nature but a spume that plays / Upon a ghostly paradigm of things," in a section discussing three ancient Greek philosophers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Among School Children" (by William Butler Yeats)):
    Name this poem. The last stanza of this poem asks, "O body swayed to music, O brightening glance, / How can we know the dancer from the dance?"
  Part 2 (ans: a scarecrow [prompt on "a tattered coat upon a stick" or "tattered coat" or "coat" or "stick" or "coat upon a stick" by asking "what sort of thing is made out of a tattered coat upon a stick?"]):
    Earlier in the poem, the speaker explains that it is "better to smile on all that smile" to show "there is a comfortable kind" of these objects. In "Sailing to Byzantium," the line "an aged man is but a paltry thing" precedes a line usually interpreted as describing one of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Leda):
    "Among School Children" also describes dreaming of a body alike to this mythological figure. Another poem by Yeats is based on the story in which Zeus rapes this woman in the form of a swan.

[B16] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for this quality tells the addressee to "murmur, a little sadly, how Love fled /... and hid his face amid a crowd of stars." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: being old [or equivalents like being aged; or "When You are Old"]):
    Name this quality. A speaker who describes himself as "a tattered coat upon a stick" embarks on a voyage to a "holy city" because he has this quality.
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats ("yates")):
    This Irish poet of "When You Are Old" wrote "that is no country for old men" in "Sailing to Byzantium."
  Part 3 (ans: Mathew Arnold):
    This poet wrote that to be old is to "to hear the world applaud the hollow ghost / which blamed the living man" in "Growing Old." This poet and critic used his father's sermons as material for the elegy "Rugby Chapel."

[B17] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem named for an image on a specific one of these objects that shows "rough men-at-arms" and "narrow stairs," these objects turn into a "pack of hounds" followed by Hanrahan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tarot ("TAIR-oh") cards [or tarocchi; or tarock; accept "I tarrochi" or "The Triumphs"; prompt on cards; prompt on "The Tower" with "what kind of object is 'The Tower' depicted on?"]):
    Name these objects that characters like "the Ingrate," "the Alchemist," and Roland use to communicate when they are unable to speak. A Matteo Boiardo poem enumerates these objects.
  Part 2 (ans: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]):
    This poet became fascinated with the tarot ("TAIR-oh") after joining Aleister Crowley's Order of the Golden Dawn and titled a poem after the tarot card "The Tower." This Irish poet also wrote "The Second Coming."
  Part 3 (ans: Italo Calvino):
    Characters communicate with tarot cards in this author's novel The Castle of Crossed Destinies. Another novel by this author features a debate by professors of Cimmerian and Cimbrian literature.

[B18] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Mrs. Tarpey's miscommunication in this playwright's Spreading the News caused such ruckus on its opening night that this playwright swore not to be so amusing again. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Augusta Gregory):
    Name this author of Seven Short Plays. Theresa Deevy premiered her play Katie Roche at an institution co-founded by this woman.
  Part 2 (ans: Sean O'Casey [or John Casey] (The play is The Plough and the Stars.)):
    Deevy was described as this playwright's successor. Rioters at the Abbey Theatre were offended by this author's depiction of Irish patriots in a play that sees Bessie accidentally shot after Jack Clitheroe's wife Nora has a stillbirth.
  Part 3 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    This poet, who co-founded the Abbey with Gregory, expressed mixed feelings towards Irish patriots in his poem "Easter, 1916." A "vast image out of Spiritus Mundi / troubles" this poet's sight in "The Second Coming."

[B19] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Lady Gregory claimed that this play's audience broke into disorder over its use of the word "shift" for underwear. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Playboy of the Western World (by J. M. Synge)):
    Name this play that sparked 1907 riots at the Abbey Theater for its allegedly insulting depiction of the Irish peasantry.
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Years after the Playboy riots, this poet told rioters at a performance of Sean O'Casey's The Plough and the Stars that "you have disgraced yourself again." This Irish poet also wrote "The Second Coming."
  Part 3 (ans: The Countess Cathleen):
    James Joyce, who was envious of the Playboy riots, had earlier written a letter of protest against Lady Gregory's production of this Yeats play. In this play, the title woman sells her soul to feed her starving tenants.

[B20] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man rhetorically asks, "Did God in portioning wine and bread / Give man His thought or His mere body?" to a dancer who eventually responds, "They say such different things at school." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Michael Robartes [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this character who sees that dancer poised between a Buddha and a Sphinx in a "double vision" under the full moon. The poem "The Phases of the Moon" is framed as a dialogue between him and Owen Aherne.
  Part 2 (ans: "Easter, 1916"):
    This poem from the collection Michael Robartes and the Dancer mourns "MacDonagh and MacBride / And Connolly and Pearse." This poem begins, "I have met them at close of day."
  Part 3 (ans: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]):
    This poet of "The Double Vision of Michael Robartes" asked, "How can we know the dancer from the dance?" in "Among School Children" and wrote "Sailing to Byzantium."

[B21] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Peggy Noonan used this phrase to end a January 1986 speech describing people who "slipped the surly bonds of Earth." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the face of God (The speech addressed the Challenger disaster.)):
    Give this three-word phrase that ends the poem "High Flight," written by World War II pilot John Gillespie Magee, in which the speaker "put out my hand, and touched" this phrase.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This poet of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" wrote that "I hope to see my Pilot face to face" after his death in his poem "Crossing the Bar." That poem refers to a maritime pilot, as this poet lived before the age of airplanes.
  Part 3 (ans: Irish (The poet is W. B. Yeats.)):
    A poet of this nationality wrote of a pilot who "know[s] that I shall meet my fate / Somewhere among the clouds above" in a poem titled "A [this nationality] Airman Foresees His Death."

[B22] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Jill Dawson's biographical novel The Great Lover is about this poet, who called himself "one-half outright heterosexual, one-quarter outright homosexual and one-quarter sentimental homosexual." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rupert Brooke (The poem is "The Soldier.")):
    Name this poet whose best-known poem predicts that he will lie with friends "and gentleness / hearts at peace, under an English heaven."
  Part 2 (ans: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]):
    This poet described Brooke as "the handsomest young man in England" before Brooke died in World War I. His own poems about World War I include "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death."
  Part 3 (ans: The Stranger's Child):
    This Alan Hollinghurst novel fictionalizes Brooke as Cecil Valence, who engages in dalliances with men in the English countryside before heading off to war. Its title refers to a figure from Tennyson's "In Memoriam, A.H.H" who dwells in a garden, where "year by year the landscape grow[s] / familiar."

[B23] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet showed their interest in rural life in encouraging writers of their country to 'Sing the peasantry, and then / Hard-riding country gentlemen' in their poem "Under Ben Bulben". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Name this poet. In one of this poet's non-rural poems, the line 'a terrible beauty is born' is repeated in Easter, 1916.
  Part 2 (ans: Æ [or A.E. or Æon or George William Russell; accept pronunciations "ay" or "ee"]):
    This journalist and mystic poet embodied Irish nationalism's preoccupation with agriculture as editor of the journal The Irish Homestead, while also eulogising the Easter Rising in the poem "Salutation".
  Part 3 (ans: oxen [prompt on cows, cattle]):
    At the end of Yeats's The Countess Cathleen, 'The years' are compared to 'great black' examples of these animals, which 'tread the world'. The fourteenth chapter of Ulysses, set in the Holles Street maternity hospital, is titled for these animals 'of the Sun'.

[B24] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Sudha brings some of these objects to Amal shortly before the arrival of the king in the play The Post Office. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flowers [or Red Oleanders or Raktakarabi]):
    Name these things. After seeing discarded iron that had pierced some of these things, that play's author was inspired to write another play titled for a specific type of these things in which the despotic King kills Ranjan.
  Part 2 (ans: Rabindranath Tagore ("rah-BIN-dra-nath tah-GORE")):
    This Bengali playwright of The Post Office and Red Oleanders asked the listener to "Pluck [a] little flower" in the sixth poem from his collection Gitanjali ("gee-TAHN-jah-lee").
  Part 3 (ans: W. B. Yeats ("yates") [or William Butler Yeats]):
    This author, who led a 1913 production of The Post Office at the Abbey Theatre, described Tagore's evocations of "flowers and rivers, the blowing of conch shells" in his introduction to Gitanjali.

[B25] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Eugenio Montale called this author a poet "in C Major" and translated his poem "When You Are Old," which was itself based on a poem by Pierre Ronsard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: W. B. Yeats ("yates") [or William Butler Yeats]):
    Name this author whose play The Countess Cathleen was dedicated to Maud Gonne and translated into Italian by Nicolo Vidacovich. This author drew on Japanese Noh theater in plays like At the Hawk's Well.
  Part 2 (ans: Bengali [or Bangla; accept Bengali Renaissance]):
    Bishnu Dey, an author in this language, labeled Yeats as the "poet of the universe" and translated 18 of his poems. Yeats championed Rabindranath Tagore, a major poet of this language's namesake "Renaissance."
  Part 3 (ans: Korea [accept North Korea or South Korea] (The poets are Kim Eok and Kim Sowol.)):
    A modernist poet from this country translated Yeats's poem "The Cloths of Heaven," which says "tread softly because you tread on my dreams." Another poet from this country wrote "tread softly, deeply, and go" in "Azaleas."
