=== STOCK CLUES: Leda and the Swan ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: swans [accept "Leda and the Swan" or "The Wild Swans at Coole"; prompt on birds] ("Postscript" is by Seamus Heaney.)
  - The speaker says it is "useless to think you'll park and capture" the sight of these animals, because you are "a hurry through which known and strange things pass" in the poem "Postscript." A poem titled for one of these animals wonders if a woman felt "the strange heart beating where it lies." In another poem, "passion and conquest" attend upon these animals, as noted by a speaker who says that although "all's (*) changed" in the nineteen years since he first counted these animals, their hearts "have not grown old." A poem titled for one of these animals imagines "the burning roof... and Agamemnon dead." In another poem, "nine and fifty" of these wild animals gather at Coole.
  - For 10 points, W. [GIVE]
  - B.
  - Yeats wrote about Leda's abduction by what animal?

[T2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Helen of Troy [or Helena or Helene; or Helen of Sparta; prompt on Maud Gonne until read by asking "what mythological figure is a stand-in for Maud Gonne in these poems?"] (The unnamed poems are "A Prayer for My Daughter," "When Helen Lived," and "Leda and the Swan.")
  - A poem names this person and a goddess as "fine women" who "eat a crazy salad with their meat whereby the Horn of Plenty is undone." That poem laments that this person "found life flat and dull and later had much trouble from a fool." Another poem claims that, if we lived in this person's time, we like the rest would have given but "a word and a jest." This person had a mind "that nobleness made simple as a fire," according to a poem that refuses to blame her for teaching "ignorant men most violent ways." This woman's parents title a poem in which "a shudder in the loins" leads to "the broken wall, the burning roof and tower / and Agamemnon dead." That poem describes this woman's mother as "the staggering girl" beneath "the great wings beating still." For 10 points, name this stand-in for Maud Gonne whom W. [GIVE]
  - B.
  - Yeats wrote about in "No Second Troy."

[T3] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: swans [accept "The Wild Swans at Coole" or "Leda and the Swan"]
  - The sixth stanza of one poem imagines that the "daughters" of this animal "can share / something of every paddler's heritage." A poem consisting of observations made during the "nineteenth autumn" says of these animals "Their hearts have not grown old / Passion or conquest, wander where they will." A poem titled for this animal takes the form of a Shakespearean sonnet for the first eight lines and a Petrarchan sonnet for the last six; that poem's eleventh line is split in two halves after its tenth, which mentions (*) "the broken wall, the burning roof and tower." A "shudder in the loins" due to one of these animals is described in that poem, which speaks of the "indifferent beak" of one of them. [PWR]
  - The speaker meditates upon his age in a poem that observes "nine and fifty" of these animals at Coole.
  - For 10 points, name this bird which, in a W. [GIVE]
  - B.
  - Yeats poem, seduces Leda.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker reflects that "now my heart is sore" after seeing these "brilliant creatures." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: swans [accept "The Wild Swans at Coole"; accept "Leda and the Swan"; prompt on birds]):
    Name these animals, of which the speaker sees "nine-and-fifty" in that poem. In a poem partly titled for these animals, the speaker imagines "The broken wall, the burning roof and tower" engendered by one of these animals.
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    "The Wild Swans at Coole" and "Leda and the Swan" are by this Irish poet who also wrote "The Second Coming" and "Sailing to Byzantium."
  Part 3 (ans: Stevie Smith [or Florence Margaret Smith] (The poem is "Not Waving but Drowning.")):
    This poet described a swan "Like a cake / Of soap" who has "abandoned hope" in the poem "The Bereaved Swan." This poet's best-known poem opens, "Nobody heard him, the dead man" and claims "I was much too far out all my life."

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Abstract Futures tarot deck was produced by a feminist art collective named after this artist's "ghost." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hilma af Klint [prompt on Hilma's Ghost]):
    Name this artist of three paintings titled Altarpiece, one of which depicts a radiant orb above a rainbow pyramid. This Theosophist was inspired by the "High Masters" to create the Paintings for the Temple.
  Part 2 (ans: swans [accept Leda and the Swan; prompt on birds or avians]):
    A series from Klint's Paintings for the Temple titled after these animals includes a painting of two of them colored black and white. Leonardo da Vinci sketched two depictions of Leda with one of these animals.
  Part 3 (ans: stages of life [accept equivalents like life stages or progressions of life or phases of life; prompt on stages and equivalents by asking "of what entity?"; prompt on life by asking "what aspects of life?"]):
    Description acceptable. Klint represented these entities with various organic forms in her series The Ten Largest. A guardian angel appears beside a boat in a Thomas Cole series depicting a "voyage" through four of these entities.

[B3] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem by this author bitterly asks, "What later purge from this deep toxin cures? / What kindness now could the old salve renew?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Empson (The book is Seven Types of Ambiguity.)):
    Name this poet who wrote "the waste remains and kills" in "Missing Dates," which helped repopularize the villanelle. A book by this critic opens with several interpretations of Shakespeare's image of "bare-ruined choirs."
  Part 2 (ans: Leda [accept "Request to Leda"; accept "Leda and the Swan"] ("Leda and the Swan" is by W. B. Yeats.)):
    Empson's villanelles were parodied by his friend Dylan Thomas in a poem addressed to this woman. A 15-line sonnet titled for this woman predicts "the burning roof and tower / And Agamemnon dead."
  Part 3 (ans: October [accept "Especially when the October Wind" or "Poem in October"; reject answers like "fall" or "autumn"]):
    Before parodying Empson's use of the word "chemic" in "Request to Leda," Thomas used it in a poem about this period's wind. Thomas marked his "thirtieth year to heaven" with a "place poem" titled for this time period.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem in a collection titled for one of these places thinks of finding "a faithful love" "when cradle and spool are past / And I mere shade at last." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: towers [accept The Tower] (The poem is "Leda and the Swan.")):
    "The Fool By The Roadside" is found in a collection titled for what type of place? Another poem in that collection mentions "a sudden blow" and "a shudder in the loins" before describing "Agamemnon dead."
  Part 2 (ans: "Sailing to Byzantium"):
    This poem from The Tower asks "sages standing in God's holy fire" to "consume my heart away" after describing "a tattered coat upon a stick."
  Part 3 (ans: W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]):
    The Tower was by this poet who wrote that "Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold" in "The Second Coming."

[B5] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a "Request to" this character, the speaker claims, "Lust bears like volts, who'll amplify, and strange / The worm is (pinpoint) rational in the fruit." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leda [accept Leda and the Swan]):
    Name this first title character of a poem that describes how "A shudder in the loins engenders there / The broken wall, the burning roof and tower."
  Part 2 (ans: Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]):
    This author repeats "Not your winged lust but his must now change suit" in his poem "Request to Leda." This Welsh author's most famous poem is "Do not go gentle into that good night."
  Part 3 (ans: Under Milk Wood):
    Captain Cat describes "Seas gliding with swans / In the seal-barking moon" in this Dylan Thomas radio play. This "play for voices" is set in the seaside town of Llareggub.

[B6] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet closed a poem describing a regretful old man with the lines "O body swayed to music, O brightening glance / How can we know the dancer from the dance?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Name this poet who describes Caesar, Helen of Troy, and Michelangelo in the three stanzas of "Long-Legged Fly." This man's unrequited love for Maud Gonne inspired many of his poems.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Second Coming"):
    Yeats' mystical beliefs about the cyclical nature of time influenced this bleak poem of his in which, "The best lack all conviction and the worst are filled with passionate intensity." It also features a "rough beast slouch[ing] towards Bethlehem to be born."
  Part 3 (ans: "Leda and the Swan"):
    Yeats' beliefs about time also come through in this Greek myth-inspired poem of his, which closes "Did she put on his knowledge with his power / Before the indifferent beak could let her drop."

[B7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man adapted French alexandrines into a 14 syllable meter in his own language, using them to depict a sad, "strawberry"-mouthed princess surrounded by wealth in "Sonatina." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Name this rather swan-obsessed poet. The earlier Parnassians and Symbolists inspired him to start a movement focused on bright colors and ornate objects like gems.
  Part 2 (ans: "To Roosevelt" [or "A Roosevelt"]):
    Dario shelved his usual modernismo style in this polemical, anti-American poem. Its namesake leader is an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar" who threatens Nicaragua as a "future invader."
  Part 3 (ans: Leda [accept "Leda and the Swan"]):
    Ruben Dario's poem titled for this woman includes "sparkle-eyed Pan," who "watches and wonders why." William Butler Yeats also wrote a poem about her encounter with Zeus in the form of a swan.

[B8] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In "Under Ben Bulben," this poet wrote his own epitaph, reading, "Cast a cold eye on life, on death. Horseman, pass by!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Name this Irish poet of "Sailing to Byzantium" and "The Second Coming."
  Part 2 (ans: "Leda and the Swan"):
    In this poem, Yeats ponders how "a shudder in the loins engenders there the broken wall, the burning roof and tower and Agamemnon dead" in treating the title mythological rape.
  Part 3 (ans: Maud Gonne):
    Much of Yeats's poetry was inspired by this Irish revolutionary, who repeatedly refused his offers of marriage. Yeats asks, "Why should I blame her that she filled my days with misery?" at the beginning of "No Second Troy."
