=== STOCK CLUES: The Swing ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: (Happy Hazards of) The Swing (Shonibare's piece is The Swing (After Fragonard))
  - In one essay, Donald Posner discusses how recent trends in art history have opened discussion toward the "joyous sexuality of [this painting's] imagery". [PWR]
  - A 3D recreation of this painting incorporating 'Dutch' wax fabric and a lifesize headless mannequin was created by British-Nigerian artist Yinka Shonibare. [PWR]
  - An identically titled landscape by this painting's artist is now housed in the National Gallery and was created to accompany his The (*) Blind Man's Bluff. [PWR]
  - A man in green crouches in a bush below a statue of Cupid holding a finger to his lips in this painting's lower-left corner to view the central scene, in which a woman in pink loses a shoe after being pushed on the title device.
  - For 10 points, name this Rococo masterpiece by Jean-Honore Fragonard. [GIVE]

[T2] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Happy Accidents of the Swing [or L'Escarpolette]
  - The subject of this painting was originally suggested to Gabriel-Francois Doyen before being passed to its artist. [PWR]
  - The bottom right shows a dog reared on his hind legs yapping at the central scene. [PWR]
  - One figure in this painting holds his black three-cornered hat in his outstretched left hand. [PWR]
  - The left side of this painting has a depiction of a beehive with two babies on top of it. [PWR]
  - This work was commissioned by the Baron de Saint-Julien. [PWR]
  - A putto with a (*) finger up to its lips looks from the right of this work, whose central figure is kicking off her shoe as a man behind her pushes her on the title conveyance.
  - For 10 points, name this painting which depicts a man hidden in a bush looking up the pink dress of a woman, and which is a Rococo work by Jean-Honore Fragonard. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2018, this artist wrote the names of successful immigrants on the spines of 3,200 books as part of his installation The American Library. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yinka Shonibare ("shone-eh-BARR-ay")):
    Name this British-Nigerian artist who sculpts headless mannequins dressed in period costumes made from Ankara fabric in works like Gallantry and Criminal Conversation.
  Part 2 (ans: The Swing [or L'Escarpolette; or The Happy Accidents of the Swing; or Les Hasards heureux de l'escarpolette]):
    In 2001, Shonibare created a sculptural representation of this Jean-Honore Fragonard painting in which a shoe flies off the foot of a woman in a pink dress as she uses the title device.
  Part 3 (ans: Trafalgar Square [prompt on Nelson's Column]):
    In 2010, Shonibare's sculpture of a large ship in a bottle was placed atop the empty fourth plinth in this location, nearby four lion sculptures designed by Edwin Landseer.

[B2] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: A photographer from this country showed a man covered in black and white spots of paint holding a burning candle in a depiction of the god of smallpox, Sonponnoi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nigeria):
    Identify this country home to the father of a Young British Artist who incorporated elephant dung into a depiction of a Black Madonna.
  Part 2 (ans: The Swing [accept Happy Accidents of the Swing; accept Les Hasards heureux de l'escarpolette]):
    Another ethnically Nigerian artist, Yinka Shonibare, used headless mannequins covered in Ankara fabric in a sculptural adaptation of this Fragonard painting which depicts a woman kicking on the title conveyance.
  Part 3 (ans: Okwui Enwezor [accept Okwuchukwu Emmanuel Enwezor]):
    This man became the first African-born curator of the Venice Biennale in 2015. This Nigerian curator rose to prominence after his 1996 Guggenheim show In/Sight, one of the first explicitly postcolonial art shows.

[B3] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The soloist's glissando from an altissimo G up to C closes this man's concerto for clarinet and jazz orchestra, which he performs in Fred Astaire's Second Chorus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Artie Shaw [or Arthur Jacob Arshawsky]):
    Name this bandleader who popularized "Begin the Beguine" despite his hate of "asinine" Tin Pan Alley music. This early Third Stream musician added Billie Holiday to his band in 1938.
  Part 2 (ans: swing [accept The Swing Era; accept "It Don't Mean a Thing (If It Ain't Got That Swing)"]):
    Artie Shaw's big band played this genre of jazz, whose Era titles a book by Gunther Schuller. Schuller praised a "prophetically" titled Duke Ellington piece that claims "It Don't Mean a Thing" if "It Ain't Got" the quality that names this style of jazz.
  Part 3 (ans: Kiss Me, Kate):
    "Begin the Beguine" composer Cole Porter included "I Hate Men," "You're the Top," and "I Get a Kick Out of You" in this musical. This musical is an adaptation of The Taming of the Shrew.

[B4] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The three figures in this painting make a visual triangle, while a large statue of Cupid can be seen on this painting's left. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Swing):
    Name this painting in which the central figure kicks off her shoe to reveal what is underneath her dress to a man lying on the ground with his arm outstretched towards her.
  Part 2 (ans: Rococo):
    Jean-Honore Fragonard's The Swing is generally considered to be the masterpiece of this 18th century French art movement. This movement embraced bright color and abandoned the Academy's ideals about painting, including history painting being the most "difficult" style.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Antoine Watteau):
    This other Rococo artist showed a boy playing guitar for a family in his The Love Lesson. He also showed the new practice of buying art from a shop in his earlier Gersaint's Shop Sign, and he painted Embarkation for Cythera.

[B5] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A conversation that Charles Colle recorded in his journal between Gabriel-Francois Doyen and an unnamed patron, possibly the Baron de Saint-Julien, describes the genesis of this painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Swing [or L'Escarpolette or The Happy Accidents of the Swing]):
    Name this Fragonard work, in which a woman enjoys the title device, propelled by the guiding arm of a bishop, unable, unlike two putti with a dolphin, to see the woman's lover hiding in the bushes, looking up at her as she kicks a shoe into the air.
  Part 2 (ans: The Progress of Love in the Heart of a Young Woman [or Les Progres de l'amour dans le Cœur d'une Jeune Fille]):
    A sculpture of two putti on a dolphin also watch the lovers in The Pursuit from this Fragonard cycle of a developing relationship, which also includes a scene of a man climbing a wall, The Meeting, and a scene in which a the woman crowns her lover.
  Part 3 (ans: The Oath of Love):
    Two dolphins also watch in this Fragonard work, in which a man kisses a woman while holding his right hand on a statue of cupids holding a book, in which is inscribed the painting's title.

[B6] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about the life and times of Jean-Honore Fragonard, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Swing [or L'Escarpolette; or The Happy Accidents of the Swing; or Les Hasards Heureux de l'Escarpolette]):
    Fragonard's best-known painting is this one, which he completed after Gabriel Francois Doyen passed on the commission. It depicts a man pushing a woman on the title conveyance while another man looks up her dress.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Boucher):
    Fragonard spent much of his youth studying under this Rococo master, who claimed that nature was "too green and badly lit". This man's paintings include The Toilet of Venus and a bunch of portraits of Madame de Pompadour.
  Part 3 (ans: The Ray [or La Raie]):
    Initially, Boucher passed the young Fragonard off to Jean-Baptiste-Simeon Chardin, whose famous paintings include this still life, in which a cat investigates some oysters to the left of the hanging carcass of the title creature.

[B7] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a dove at the feet of the title character in a scene with many luxurious cloths as well as jewelry and flowers in his The Toilet of Venus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Boucher):
    Name this Rococo artist who painted several portraits of his patron, Madame de Pompadour.
  Part 2 (ans: The Stolen Kiss):
    This other work in the Rococo style shows a woman's outstretched arm holding onto a garment that indicates a path from one open door to another, where a young man enters and kisses her on the cheek.
  Part 3 (ans: The Swing):
    Fragonard, the artist of The Stolen Kiss, also created this work in which a woman in a pink dress on the title conveyance loses a shoe while a man in the lower left looks up her dress.

[B8] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the hard life of Andrew Johnson, FTPE.
  Part 1 (ans: Salmon P. Chase):
    The oath of office was administered to a drunken Johnson by this Chief Justice, who'd resigned as Secretary of the Treasury in 1864.
  Part 2 (ans: The Swing Around the Circle Campaign [prompt on "Andy's Trip"]):
    Bill Seward joined Andrew Johnson on this disastrous speaking campaign where the president tried to drum up support for the midterm elections in 1866. Named for its general route, Garry Boulard described this campaign as "The Train Ride That Destroyed a Presidency".
  Part 3 (ans: New Orleans, Louisiana):
    During the Swing Around the Circle, Johnson accused Radical Republicans of orchestrating a riot in this city. A contested 1872 election led to the Battle of Liberty Place in this city, where a group known as the White League stormed the state militia.
