=== STOCK CLUES: Marsden Hartley ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Marsden Hartley
  - A banana and two pears lay on the ground by the feet of the title figure in this artist's The Virgin of Guadalupe, who is surrounded by a triangular aurThis artist's Handsome Drinks hold references to gatherings hosted by Gertrude Stein. [PWR]
  - A frozen surface has an "A"-shaped opening carved out of it in this artist's The Ice Hole, which resembles his depictions of Mount Katahdin.
  - This artist frequently used "object abstraction" to portray his "love object," who was represented in his paintings by the initials (*) "K.v.F." A painting by this artist entitled The Warriors was used as the backdrop for a photograph of Marcel Duchamp's Fountain by Alfred Stieglitz.
  - A painting by this artist features military flags and an iron cross, as well as the dying age of its dedicatee.
  - For 10 points, name this American artist of Portrait of a German Officer. [GIVE]

[T2] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Marsden Hartley
  - This artist painted a man against a red background whose open shirt reveals his very hairy chest in Adelard the Drowned, Master of The Phantom.
  - He depicted a wide tan road reaching down the height of the canvas past granite boulders covered in flaming red plants as part of his Dogtown series.
  - Five figures, two of whom have stars above their heads, sit below a painting of a ship at a table inscribed "Mene, Mene" in this artist's Fisherman's Last Supper.
  - Another work by this artist contains a red, black, and white imperial flag below a wavy black-and-white flag covered by a triangle that bears an iron cross.
  - A photograph of Marcel Duchamp's Fountain by Alfred Stieglitz uses this painter's The Warriors as a background.
  - Several depictions of Mount Katahdin were painted by this artist, who used a helmet inscribed with the numbers eight and nine to represent his lover Karl von Freyburg.
  - For 10 points, name this "painter of Maine" who painted Portrait of a German Officer. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A man turns to look at an ominous sky in Winslow Homer's The Fog Warning, a painting of this type. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: seascapes [accept maritime painting or marine painting; prompt on landscapes]):
    Name this genre of painting exemplified by Homer's The Gulf Stream which depicts scenes set on the ocean.
  Part 2 (ans: Maine):
    Homer's The Fog Warning was based on a fisherman working near this state's Prouts Neck peninsula. A woman in a pink dress approaches the Olson House in Christina's World, another painting set in this state.
  Part 3 (ans: Marsden Hartley [or Edmund Hartley]):
    This artist of Lobster Fishermen, nicknamed "the painter of Maine," created many late-career depictions of Maine's coastline. This artist depicted the title figure as a group of military badges in Portrait of a German Officer.

[B2] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist had a relationship with poet Edwin Arlington Robinson while working at the MacDowell Artist Colony, where she painted The Dreamer and The Porch. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Sparhawk-Jones [prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this New York and Philadelphia-based painter of the turn-of-the-20th century, known for her realist depictions of the New Woman in paintings like Shoe Shop and Shop Girls.
  Part 2 (ans: AshcanSchool [or The Eight]):
    Sparhawk-Jones' Shoe Shop is similar to William Glackens' The Shoppers. Glackens was a member of this school of realist New York City painters that also included John Sloan and Robert Henri ("HEN-rye").
  Part 3 (ans: Marsden Hartley):
    Sparhawk-Jones was longtime friends with this queer painter of many New Mexico and Maine landscapes. This artist included an iron cross in his colorful abstract Portrait of a German Officer.

[B3] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An impressionistic night-time painting by this artist depicts a large hole in a frozen pond. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marsden Hartley):
    Name this American modernist painter of The Ice Hole who used military flags and decorations in his abstract Portrait of a German Officer.
  Part 2 (ans: Maine (The other painter is Winslow Homer)):
    Hartley deemed himself the "painter of" this US state. He depicted this state's Mt. Katahdin as a black mass rising above a red landscape. Another painter from this state painted works such as Eight Bells and The Fog Warning
  Part 3 (ans: Andrew Wyeth [Prompt on only Wyeth; do NOT accept N.C or Jamie Wyeth]):
    This painter depicted his polio-stricken neighbor lying in the grass at her Maine home in Christina's World.

[B4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter's The Ice Hole depicts an opening carved out of a frozen lake in Maine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marsden Hartley):
    Name this modernist painter who wanted to be the "official portrait painter" of Mount Katahdin. He also painted Lobster Fishermen.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Bruegel the Elder [prompt on Bruegel (BROY-gull or BRUH-hull)]):
    This painter depicted villagers skating on the ice as the title figures run in the foreground of Hunters in the Snow. He also painted Landscape with the Fall of Icarus.
  Part 3 (ans: Caspar David Friedrich):
    In this artist's Sea of Ice, a ship can be seen keeled over to the right amidst the cracked sheet. He also painted Two Men Contemplating the Moon.
