=== STOCK CLUES: Yasunari Kawabata ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 78 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 20 found, 60 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari] (The first line refers to "Lavatory Buddhahood.")
  - A peasant in a story by this author builds a lavish outhouse, only to later end up dying on his rival's pay toilet. [PWR]
  - This author condensed a novel into an eleven-page story titled "Gleanings from" that novel. [PWR]
  - A story by this author describes a boy and girl's names projected in green and red light onto each other's clothing. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, a student realizes that a girl's hairstyle made her look older while glimpsing her (*) bathing after a performance. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author of "The Grasshopper and the Bell Cricket," a student on vacation meets the title drum-carrying girl and her troupe.
  - This author referenced the brevity of his stories with a title suggesting they could fit in the "Palm-of-the-Hand." For 10 points, name this author of "The Dancing Girl of Izu" and Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - One story by this author ends with a screenwriter cutting the "mask scene" from his movie after witnessing his hospitalized wife put on a smiling mask. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, while on a boat, the narrator lets his tears "flow unrestrained" with a "sweet feeling, as though nothing would remain". [PWR]
  - A story by this author concludes with the narrator noticing a green lantern projecting a boy's name on to the breast of a girl who is mistakenly gifted a (*) bell-cricketinstead of a grasshopper.
  - One story by this author of "The Man Who Did Not Smile" ends with Eikichi and his sister waving goodbye to the narrator as his ship leaves the title peninsula.
  - In that story by this author, seeing her naked and realizing she is still a child ends the narrator's infatuation with a drummer-girl.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of many "palm-of-the-hand stories" and "The Dancing Girl of Izu". [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: seasons [accept kisetsu; accept season word; accept autumn or spring; accept aki or haru; accept "Spring View"; prompt on periods of time; reject "winter" or "summer" ] (Clues include the Shuishu and Kokinshu, honkadori, Yasunari Kawabata's Nobel Lecture, and The Diary of Lady Murasaki.)
  - With "love" and miscellany, these things structure a "Collection of Gleanings" and an anthology adapted with "allusive variation." The lecture "Japan, the Beautiful, and Myself" begins by quoting a waka about these "fine" things, Dogen's "Original Face." A poetic diary opens by noting, "As [one of these things] advances," a mansion "looks unutterably beautiful." In Ivan Morris's translation of The Pillow Book, the first of four opening passages about these things notes, "it is the dawn that is most beautiful." Basho quoted a Du Fu poem titled for a "Scene" or "View" of one of these things as "The state is destroyed, / rivers and hills remain." Kireji, or "cutting words," are used alongside kigo, or words that refer to these things, such as rain or cherry blossoms.
  - For 10 points, haiku often feature a word suggesting what time periods? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]
  - The 20-year-old protagonist of a novel by this author is raised by a couple who own a dry goods store, who tell her that she is a foundling.
  - In another novel by this author, the protagonist recollects how as a child, he saw a woman trim hair on a large birthmark on her breast.
  - The suitor Hideo  confuses Naeko  with her twin sister Chieko  in this author's novel The Old Capital.
  - In another novel by this author, a woman smashes her mother's old Shino bowl and Mrs.
  - Ota commits suicide shortly after sleeping with Kikuji.
  - One of this author's protagonists looks up at the Milky Way while a fire rages in a hot springs town after he has an affair with a geisha named Komako.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of Thousand Cranes and Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - In a story by this author, a woman demands that a creepy mailman who delivers her his love letters pay her the postage he saves by not using stamps. [PWR]
  - A university student cries on a steamship and feels as though his head is "dripping away drop by drop" at the end of a story by this author. [PWR]
  - At the end of one of this author's stories, the narrator marvels that a girl will never know that her name was projected in red on a boy's waist, and likewise with the boy's name projected in green on the girl's breast.
  - In that story by this author, the narrator watches children playing with (*) multicolored lanterns before seeing a boy offer a girl a rare species of insect by accident. [PWR]
  - This author of "The Silverberry Thief" and "The Grasshopper and The Bell-Cricket" wrote a story whose protagonist bursts into laughter after seeing the title drum-playing character nude and realizing she is just an adolescent.
  - For 10 points, name this author of various Palm-of-the-Hand stories and "The Dancing Girl of Izu." [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - In one novel by this author, two characters discuss a skeleton that was found holding a faded portrait, which may have been her lover or husband. [PWR]
  - That novel by this author centers around a novelist who wrote A Girl of Sixteen. [PWR]
  - Another novel by this author opens with the protagonist watching a girl's reflection in a train window as she cares for a man with tuberculosis. [PWR]
  - This author named another novel for the pattern on a handkerchief and based its structure around the (*) tea ceremony. [PWR]
  - One novel by this author ends as the protagonist feels "the Milky Way" flow inside him as a silk warehouse burns.
  - That novel by this author features the relationship between Shimamura and the geisha Komako.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Beauty and Sadness, Thousand Cranes, and Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata [accept names in either order]
  - One of this author's characters asks her father to take a set of books of Paul Klee's paintings to a convent in order to inspire his design work.
  - A novel by this author includes an extended discussion of a photograph that fades when it is removed from the grave of a princess who had died clutching it in her arms. [PWR]
  - In that novel by him, the lover of a female painter seduces a shy college student, takes him out to a lake on a motorboat, then stages his drowning as an accident. [PWR]
  - This man finally decided to become a writer rather than a painter after the death of his grandfather, the looming event at the center of his "Diary of a (*) Sixteen Year Old." This author devoted a large part of his Nobel lecture to explaining the poems he had chosen to illustrate with his calligraphy. [PWR]
  - At the end of a novel by this author, a woman symbolically surrenders herself to a much older man by smashing a cylindrical white tea bowl stained with a trace of her mother's lipstick.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author who infused his passion for the visual arts into his novels Beauty and Sadness and Thousand Cranes. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - In a novel by this author, an aging man neurotically pulls out his gray hairs, but suddenly dies upon removing the last one.
  - This author declared "however alienated one may be from the world, suicide is not a form of enlightenment" in his Nobel lecture, which he titled for his home country, "the Beautiful, and Myself." A novel by this author ends with the image of the Milky Way in the sky above a fire that engulfs a silkworm cocoon warehouse.
  - In a novel by this author, an elderly businessman forgives his daughter-in-law Kikuko for aborting her pregnancy in protest of her husband Shuichi's affair with a war widow.
  - In his best-known novel, a writer sees the disembodied face of the girl Yoko in the window of a train that he takes to a remote hot spring town, where he sleeps with the geisha Komako.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of The Sound of the Mountain and Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - In a story by this author, the narrator habitually throws salt on himself and is nicknamed "Mr.
  - Mortician" by his family after attending a series of funerals one summer.
  - He wrote a story in which an array of different-colored lanterns around a playground attract a creature that a schoolboy offers to his classmate.
  - This author of "Master of Funerals" and "The Grasshopper and the Bell Cricket" wrote a story whose protagonist has a laughing fit when he discovers a girl he'd seen carrying a large drum is actually a young teenager.
  - This man wrote the Palm-of-the-Hand Stories and "The Dancing Girl of Izu." For 10 points, name this Japanese author who created the ballet expert Shimamura in his short novel Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - This author framed a story as a letter from a painter to his former mistress asking for permission to kill and bury his canaries.
  - This author wrote a humorous tale about a peasant committing "stylish suicide" when he succumbs to back pain while using the facilities of his rival in the pay-toilet industry.
  - In another of his stories, a boy who scalded his shoulder on a hot ball of the title substance at a factory job resents that his beloved did not marry him, even though he gave her a handmade vase.
  - This author of "The White Flower" wrote a story in which schoolchildren wield colorful lanterns and a boy inadvertently ofers a girl a rare species of insect.
  - This author of "Glass" and "The Grasshopper and the Bell-Cricket" wrote a story whose narrator is shocked to discover that the dancer he was trying to court is an adolescent, when he accidentally sees her naked bathing in a river.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of "The Dancing Girl of Izu" whose collection Palm-Of-The-Hand Stories includes an early version of his novel Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - A character created by this author embarks on a trip to hear some New Year's bells but ends up meeting the love of his youth, who inspired him to write A Girl of Sixteen but is now in a lesbian relationship with her artistic protege.
  - This author drew on his experiences as a journalist to write a novel covering a six month long game between an older man and a younger man that is broken open by the sealed move made on black's 121st play.
  - This author of Beauty and Sadness used a symbol of healing to title a novel featuring the tea ceremony in which Kikuji has an affair with Mrs.
  - Ota.
  - In another of his novels, Shimamura, an expert on Western ballet, has an affair with a geisha named Komako.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of The Master of Go, Thousand Cranes, and Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - This author wrote a story in which the narrator always stares at people next to him, a problem which developed from him staring at his blind grandfather who would never face the north. [PWR]
  - This author of "A Sunny Place" wrote a story in which the narrator travels with a group of people who will honor the 49th day since their premature baby's death.
  - That narrator sees the drum-playing title character running (*) naked from a shower and realizes she is only a child. [PWR]
  - This author also wrote a novel in which the hairy birthmark of Chikako disgusts the protagonist, who has an affair with his father's old mistress, Mrs.
  - Ota.
  - This author of "The Dancing Girl of Izu" wrote about a man who feigns knowledge of Western ballets at a hot spring, where he has an affair with the geisha Komako.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Palm-of-the-Hand Stories, Thousand Cranes, and Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Yasunari Kawabata
  - In one of this author's stories, a waitress who miscarries sends her child's ashes to each of her four past lovers because she believes that they are the title divine substance.
  - The same collection, which includes "God's Bones," ends with the "gleanings" from his most famous novel, which contains glorious descriptions of the radiant Milky Way over a town and the beauty of Chijimi linens bleaching in the sun.
  - A traveler is entranced by a female performer and dismayed to find out that she is underaged in this author's "The Izu Dancer." In his most famous work, a married man falls in love with Yoko while carrying on an affair with the geisha Komako in a hot springs town.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Shimamura in Snow Country. [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Kawabata Yasunari [or Yasunari Kawabata]
  - In one story by this author, a man declares he detests people and recalls the recent deaths of his pet golden-crowned kinglets.
  - In another story by this author, a man infatuated with the roundness of a girl's shoulder takes her talking arm home with him, exchanging it for his own.
  - This author of "Of Birds and Beasts" and "One Arm" also wrote a book narrated by Eguchi, who visits the title location in order to spend the night with drugged young virgins.
  - His protagonists include Shingo, an old man who becomes attracted to his son's wife Kikuko, and Shimamura, who has a liaison with the geisha Komako at a hot spring.
  - For 10 points, name this Japanese author of The House of the Sleeping Beauties, The Sound of the Mountain, and Snow Country. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of these works titled "Lavatory Buddhahood," a man dies of lumbago after squatting in his rival's pay toilet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palm-of-the-Hand Stories [or Tenohira no shosetsu; or Tanagokoro no shosetsu; prompt on short stories]):
    Name these short works which also include one in which the light from a lantern causes a boy's name to be written on a girl's breast.
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]):
    This author included "The Grasshopper and the Bell Cricket" among his many Palm-of-the-Hand Stories. He also wrote about the geisha Komako in Snow Country.
  Part 3 (ans: Jun'ichiro Tanizaki [or Tanizaki Jun'ichiro]):
    This other author stated that "the Japanese toilet is truly a place of spiritual repose" in his essay In Praise of Shadows. He told of Sonoko and Mitsuko's lesbian affair in Quicksand.

[B2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The bullied boy Giovanni looks at this thing from the base of a weather station before visiting its depths with his friend Campanella in a 1927 novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Milky Way [accept Amanogawa or Heavenly River; prompt on the galaxy or the stars; accept BUT DO NOT REVEAL Milky Way Railroad; prompt on BUT DO NOT REVEAL Night on the Galactic Railroad]):
    Name this thing that a protagonist feels "wrap the night earth in its naked embrace" and fill him with tears. In that novel, the protagonist feels this thing's presence "with a roar" amid the screams of a woman holding a body.
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]):
    Shimamura feels the Milky Way flow inside him in the final lines of this Japanese author's novel Snow Country.
  Part 3 (ans: trains [or locomotives; accept steam trains or magic trains; accept train cars]):
    In the aforementioned Kenji Miyazawa novel, the main action begins as Giovanni magically enters one of these places from atop a hill. Shimamura sees Yoko caring for Yukio in one of these places at the start of Snow Country.

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Characters who met at a tavern bring a black bull and white horse to this place at the beginning of a novel whose opening lines note that what's "long divided, must unite" and what's "long united, must divide." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: peach garden [or taoyuan; accept Oath of the Peach Garden or Peach Garden Oath or Taoyuan Jieyi; or peach orchard or peach grove or similar; prompt on garden or yuan]):
    Name this place where those three men agree to die "on the same day, in the same month, in the same year."
  Part 2 (ans: Three Kingdoms period [or Sanguo; accept Romance of the Three Kingdoms or Sanguo yanyi]):
    Liu Bei, Guan Yu, and Zhang Fei become blood brothers after swearing the Peach Garden Oath in a Luo Guanzhong novel about the Romance of this period of Chinese history.
  Part 3 (ans: playing Go [or playing weiqi or playing baduk] (The novel is The Master of Go by Yasunari Kawabata.)):
    While being treated for a poison arrow wound, Guan Yu pretends to be unhurt by doing this activity. In another novel, a six month-long instance of this activity is interrupted by an elderly participant's stay at St. Luke's Hospital.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about children decorating colored lanterns in "The Grasshopper and the Bell Cricket." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]):
    Name this author who wrote about the narrator mistaking a drumming child to be older in "The Dancing Girl of Izu" and called his shorter works Palm-of-the-Hand stories.
  Part 2 (ans: Japanese [or Nihongo]):
    Kawabata used this language to write his Palm-of-the Hand stories and his novels The Scarlet Gang of Asakusa and Snow Country.
  Part 3 (ans: Silence [or Chinmoku]):
    In a Kawabata story titled for this word, a writer visits his mentor after he suffers a debilitating stroke and realizes "No word can say as much as [this word]." The priest Sebastian Rodrigues is the protagonist of a novel titled for this word by Shusaku Endo.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Along with other young writers, this author founded a modernist literary group named Shinkankakuha, or "New Sensationalist School." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]):
    Name this author who emphasized brevity in his Palm-of-the-Hand Stories. This Japanese author wrote the novel Snow Country.
  Part 2 (ans: The Sound of the Mountain [or Yama no oto]):
    This Kawabata novel especially reflects his interest in depicting sensory stimuli. This novel's protagonist, the elderly businessman Shingo Ogata, frequently reflects on his failing memory and disturbing dreams.
  Part 3 (ans: Asakusa [accept The Scarlet Gang of Asakusa or Asakusa Kurenaidan]):
    Shinkankakuha formed while Kawabata was living in this Tokyo district, which he depicted in a novel titled for "The Scarlet Gang of" this district. In a haiku, Matsuo Basho asked whether a temple bell was from this district or Ueno ("oo-eh-noh").

[B6] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Nobel acceptance speech titled for this concept, its author explains how this concept's "excitement" "calls forth strong fellow feelings" and "yearnings for companionship." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beauty [accept Beauty and Sadness or Utsukushisa to kanashimi to; accept "Japan, the Beautiful, and Myself"]):
    Name this concept that is the first word in the English title of a novel about a man who visits his ex-lover Otoko, who is now a famous painter, many years after publishing the book A Girl of Sixteen about their affair.
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]):
    The Nobel acceptance speech "Japan, the Beautiful, and Myself" was given by this author of Snow Country and Beauty and Sadness.
  Part 3 (ans: sleeping [accept The House of the Sleeping Beauties or Nemureru bijo]):
    In a Kawabata novella, Old Eguchi frequently visits an inn of beautiful young women who perform this action. Eguchi himself is permitted to do nothing but this action next to the women.

[B7] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of this novel, Yumiko gives the protagonist a handkerchief embroidered with the title pattern during a traditional ceremony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thousand Cranes [or Senbadzuru]):
    Name this novel about the relationship between Kikuji and Fumiko, which develops after the death of Fumiko's mother, Mrs. Ota.
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [accept names in either order]):
    Thousand Cranes is a novel by this Japanese author, who wrote about Honinbo Shusai's retirement game in The Master of Go.
  Part 3 (ans: tea bowl [accept anything mentioning a bowl used during tea ceremony; prompt on bowl by asking "what is it used for?"; do not accept or prompt on "teacup"]):
    In Thousand Cranes, Fumiko angrily tells Kikuji to destroy one of these items that she had gifted him. When he refuses, Fumiko shatters another of these items, which has a trace of her mother's lipstick.

[B8] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Kobo Abe novella, an amateur entomologist with this day job gets trapped with the title Woman in the Dunes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: teacher [or educator or professor or lecturer or equivalents]):
    Name this job that is also held by Mr. Sneaze in Natsume Soseki's novel I Am a Cat. The protagonist gets fired from this job after he vomits while performing it in Kenzaburo Oe's novel The Silent Cry.
  Part 2 (ans:  Botchan):
    The title math teacher feuds with "Redshirt" but allies with "Porcupine" in this Natsume Soseki novel, which remains a standard assigned reading in Japanese schools.
  Part 3 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]):
    The former teacher Gimpei Momoi asks the girl Hisako to treat his foot condition in The Lake, a novel by this Japanese Nobel Laureate who also wrote Snow Country and A Thousand Cranes.

[B9] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, a character with this profession has an affair with a ballet expert who has never actually seen a ballet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: geisha [accept Autobiography of a Geisha; accept Geisha, Half a Lifetime of Pain and Struggle; accept Memoirs of a Geisha; prompt on dancer or entertainer or synonyms; do not accept or prompt on "prostitute" or synonyms] (Autobiography of a Geisha is by Sayo Masuda.)):
    Name this profession held by the author of a memoir titled for "Half a Lifetime of Pain and Struggle." A woman with this job sued Arthur Golden after he interviewed her for his novel "Memoirs of" this profession.
  Part 2 (ans: Komako):
    This fictional geisha, based on the real Matsuei, runs to carry Yoko's body from the ruins of a silk warehouse after a fire. She practices the samisen with sheet music and is enraged at being called a "good woman."
  Part 3 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata):
    Komako appears in Snow Country, a novel by this author of Thousand Cranes and the story "The Dancing Girl of Izu."

[B10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one scene, this character drunkenly repeats 'I said I'd come and I've come, haven't I?' several times. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Komako):
    Name this character, a highly skilled player of the samisen, who consistently refuses to
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata):
    Komako's samisen playing impresses the urban protagonist of Snow Country, a work by this Japanese author.
  Part 3 (ans: Thousand Cranes [or Senbazuru]):
    Another Japanese custom depicted in Kawabata's works is the tea ceremony, which decays and is misused by Chikako in this novel. Fumiko smashes Mrs Ota's 16th-century tea bowl in this novel.

[B11] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A Tokyo student takes a train trip to the Izu Peninsula where he encounters a troupe of performers in this author's novella The Dancing Girl at Izu. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata):
    Name this Japanese author whose fascination with the modernity of train travel is illustrated by the opening scene of his novel Snow Country.
  Part 2 (ans: Botchan):
    In this 1904 Natsume Soseki novel, the title character takes a long train journey to Shikiku, where he works as a math teacher alongside characters he nicknames Red Shirt, Squash, and Porcupine.
  Part 3 (ans: Kenji Miyazawa):
    The child protagonist Giovanni finds himself swept up among the stars on a space train in this Japanese author's classic fantasy novel Night on the Galactic Railroad. This author's immensely popular works for children include Gauche the Cellist and The Night of Taneyamagahara ("TAH-nee-ya-ma-ga-ha-ra")

[B12] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The postscriptum of this document recalls when the author and the addressee discussed "Empedocles on Etna," noting "At that time, I was one who fancied himself a god." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ryunosuke Akutagawa's suicide note [accept equivalents in place of "suicide note" such as death note or last letter; accept answers mentioning Akutagawa's names in reverse order; accept answers mentioning Chokodo or Shujin in place of "Akutagawa"]):
    Identify this document titled "A Note to a Certain Old Friend," which recounts the author's rejection of various reasons "for aesthetic and practical reasons" and discusses emotions fictionalized in the story "Cogwheels."
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [accept names in either order]):
    This author quoted Akutagawa's suicide note before quoting the words "suicide is not a form of enlightenment" from his own essay "Eyes in their Last Extremity" in his 1968 Nobel lecture. He also wrote Snow Country.
  Part 3 (ans: a fool [or a stupid man; accept Wonderful Fool (by Shusaku Endo) or "A Fool's Life" or "Life of a Stupid Man" or Obaka-san]):
    In the note, Akutagawa discusses his examination of his "vague sense of unease towards [the] future" in a story titled for the "life" of one of these people, one of his last works. In a novel titled for one of these people, the title character uses a loincloth as a napkin shortly after being welcomed to Japan by Takamori and Tomoe.

[B13] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about progressively shorter stories.
  Part 1 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata):
    A man and a geisha yearn for more than just a fleeting connection, in this author's one page story "Harbor Town," one of his many Palm-of-the-Hand stories. Another geisha, Komako, has an affair with a poseur named Shimamura in this Nobel Laureate's novel Snow Country.
  Part 2 (ans: dinosaurs [or dinosaurio]):
    Honduran-born Guatemalan author Augusto Monterroso penned a single sentence story that reads: "When he awoke, [this animal] was still there." It inspired Italo Calvino's story titled for these animals, in which describes Qfwfq's loneliness living in the age of the New Ones.
  Part 3 (ans: "For sale: baby shoes, never worn" [award 10 points and a fist-bump to anyone who answers: "FOR SALE: BABY SHOES, SWEET FLAMES PAINTED ON SIDES, PICTURE OF LAUGHING SKULL W/ DICE ON THE FRONT. THIS BABY TRULY RULED."]):
    The archetypal example of "flash fiction" is a tragic story, often attributed to Hemingway, consisting of these six words.

[B14] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel ends with a girl breaking an ancient bowl owned by her mother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thousand Cranes [or Senbazuru]):
    Name this novel whose protagonist recalls being traumatized by the sight of his father's mistress trimming hair from a mole on her breast.
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [accept names in either order]):
    This Japanese author of Thousand Cranes also wrote about birthmarks in his story "The Mole." Snow Country is the best-known of this Nobel Laureate's novels.
  Part 3 (ans: Sea of Fertility [or Hojo no Umi]):
    A trio of dark moles are a recurring motif in this other piece of Japanese literature, a series which follows Shigekuni Honda and includes Spring Snow and Runaway Horses.

[B15] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, Shusai is outraged by his opponent Otake's decision to play a forcing move as his last, sealed, play before a scheduled two-day break to give himself more time to ponder the game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [or Kawabata Yasunari]):
    Name this Japanese author of The Master of Go and Snow Country.
  Part 2 (ans: The Sound of the Mountain [or Yama no Oto]):
    This Kawabata novel centers on Shingo's relationship with Kikuko, who is unhappily married to Shingo's son Shuichi. Its title refers to a disturbing noise Shingo hears in his sleep.
  Part 3 (ans: masks [or men; accept Masks or Onnamen; accept Confessions of a Mask or Kamen no kokuhaku; accept Noh masks]):
    In The Sound of the Mountain, a deceased coworker leaves Shingo a pair of these items. These items title a novel by Fumiko Enchi, as well as a novel about a man who fails to fall in love with a girl named Sonoko.

[B16] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this novel pads her stomach to fake a pregnancy and later forces a couple to take sleeping powder every night. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Quicksand [or Manji]):
    Name this novel about Sonoko, whose marriage deteriorates when she starts a lesbian affair with the manipulative model Mitsuko, and who signs a blood pact with her lover's impotent boyfriend Watanuki.
  Part 2 (ans: Sputnik Sweetheart [or Suputoniku no Koibito]):
    Sumire falls for an older Korean woman and disappears into a parallel world on a Greek island in this novel. K. learns that Miu saw herself have sex with a Spaniard while trapped on a ferris wheel in this Haruki Murakami novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata):
    Otoko has a lesbian relationship with Keiko in this author's novel Beauty and Sadness. This author's other works include the Palm-of-the-Hand Stories, The Sound of the Mountain and Snow Country.

[B17] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel discovers that she has a twin sister named Naeko. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Old Capital [or Koto]):
    Name this novel about the foundling Chieko Sada, whose family runs a kimono business.
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata):
    The Old Capital is by this author of "The Dancing Girl of Izu" and Snow Country.
  Part 3 (ans: The Sound of the Mountain [or Yama no Oto]):
    In this Kawabata novel, the old man Shingo Ogata observes the failing marriages of his son Shuichi and his daughter Fusako.

[B18] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's daughter Fumiko runs away near the end of the novel, possibly killing herself as this character does with sleeping pills. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Mrs. Ota):
    Name this tea ceremony fan, who initiates an affair with the much younger Kikuji Mitani in order to prolong her relationship with Kikuji's now-dead father.
  Part 2 (ans: Thousand Cranes [or Sembazaru]):
    Kikuji Mitani and Mrs. Ota appear in this novel, named for the pattern on the pink scarf of Yukiko Inamura, the suggested proper bride for Kikuji.
  Part 3 (ans: Kawabata Yasunari [or Yasunari Kawabata]):
    This author of Snow Country and The Sound of the Mountain wrote Thousand Cranes.

[B19] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's character of Otake is based on Minoru Kitani. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Master of Go [or Meijin]):
    Name this novel in which the journalist Uragami chronicles the retirement match of Honinbo Shusai.
  Part 2 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata [accept in either order]):
    The Master of Go is by this Japanese author who wrote about the relationship between Shimamura and the geisha Komako at a hot spring in Snow Country.
  Part 3 (ans: House of the Sleeping Beauties [or Nemureru Bijo]):
    In this Kawabata novella, Eguchi joins a club in which impotent old men are allowed to share beds with naked virgins.

[B20] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about the writer Oki Toshio in the novel Beauty and Sadness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yasunari Kawabata):
    Name this Japanese novelist who wrote about the ballet aficionado Shimamura's journey to the title locale in Snow Country and about the tea ceremony in Thousand Cranes.
  Part 2 (ans: The Sound of the Mountain [or Yama no Oto]):
    In this Kawabata novel, the businessman Shingo struggles with the womanizing of his son Shuichi and his own attraction to his daughter-in-law Kikuko.
  Part 3 (ans: The Old Capital [or Koto]):
    In this final Kawabata novel, Chieko discovers that she was a foundling and has a twin sister named Naeko.
