=== STOCK CLUES: Judy Chicago ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: land art [or environmental art; accept Earth art BEFORE the final word; prompt on sculptures; prompt on installation art; prompt on site-specific art; prompt on Light and Space with "what larger artistic movement is that Turrell site part of?"] (Remote Viewing responds to Partially Buried Woodshed. The Judy Chicago piece is Atmospheres. The James Turrell site is Roden Crater.)
  - The "blind romanticization" of this movement is critiqued in Cauleen Smith's Remote Viewing.
  - Judy Chicago countered this movement's masculinity with a series of ephemeral, colorful performances, featuring her students nude with body paint.
  - Phil Leider described going with Abbie Hoffman to see a work from this movement, Michael Heizer's Double Negative. [PWR]
  - A work from this movement was installed at (*) Kent State University in 1970 to depict the effects of "entropy." Kanye West filmed Jesus Is King at a site for art of this type by James Turrell. [PWR]
  - The University of Michigan campus is the site of Wave Field, Maya Lin's piece of this type.
  - At Rozel Point, Robert Smithson created a piece of this type by moving over 6,000 tons of basalt.
  - For 10 points, Spiral Jetty is part of what movement that engages directly with the Earth? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This magazine was started in San Francisco to highlight West Coast art and land art for locals tired of hearing about New York, but its second owner, Charles Cowles, moved it to New York anyway. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Artforum):
    Name this magazine whose former editors include John Koplans and Michelle Kuo. Rosalind Kraus left it in protest to found October after it published a photo of Lynda Benglis holding a dildo.
  Part 2 (ans: Judy Chicago):
    This artist, who placed an ad in Artforum explaining why she changed her last name from Cohen, created 39 place settings representing famous women in The Dinner Party.
  Part 3 (ans: Nan Goldin):
    This artist published "I Survived the Opiate Crisis", discussing her experience with addiction and campaign against the Sackler family, in Artforum. She's also known for her photo series The Ballad of Sexual Dependency, which depicts New York gay culture in the 80s.

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Video artists Steina and Woody Vasulka created a music and art space of this name that was a venue for many no wave artists as well as Laurie Anderson, Joan Jonas, and others. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kitchens [accept Semiotics of the Kitchen; accept The Kitchen] (Abramovic's performance is called Spirit Cooking.)):
    Name this place where Martha Rosler alphabetically presents tools in a performance titled for its "Semiotics." With pig blood, Marina Abramovic wrote directions ostensibly used in this sort of place for a work dubbed "Spirit."
  Part 2 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Rosler's The Bowery in two inadequate descriptive systems documents this city, where The Kitchen works out of a building located blocks from the Whitney Museum.
  Part 3 (ans: Judy Chicago (The second piece is The Dinner Party.)):
    A Nurturant Kitchen with eggs that morph into breasts was part of Womanhouse, an installation co-created by Miriam Schapiro and this artist. This artist made a triangular installation with "butterfly-vagina" imagery.

[B3] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about feminist critiques of the art world, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Linda Nochlin):
    This art historian wrote the seminal 1971 article "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?", which highlighted the work of Judith Leyster and Rosa Bonheur and critiqued the field of art history as a whole.
  Part 2 (ans: The Metropolitan Museum of Art [or The Met]):
    A poster by the Guerilla Girls asks if "women have to be naked" to get into this New York art museum because 85% of its nudes were women. This art museum is the largest in the U.S.
  Part 3 (ans: Judy Chicago):
    Amelia Jones curated an exhibit at the Hammer Museum contextualizing this artist's most famous work "in Feminist Art History." A large triangular installation by this artist is a table with sections dedicated to Virginia Woolf and Artemisia Gentileschi.

[B4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Holly Solomon championed this movement in opposition to minimalist art via her Manhattan gallery. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pattern and Decoration movement [or P&D]):
    Name this 1970s and '80s movement whose artists, like Joyce Kozloff and Miriam Schapiro, were influenced by ornamental forms such as wallpaper and embroidery.
  Part 2 (ans: collage (The portmanteau term is "femmage.")):
    Schapiro coined a portmanteau term combining "femme" with the name of this artistic technique, which comes from the French for "glue." Decoupage ("day-koo-PAHZH") and photomontage are forms of this technique.
  Part 3 (ans: Judy Chicago [or Judith Sylvia Cohen] (The second artwork is The Dinner Party.)):
    Schapiro organized the Womanhouse installation with this artist, whose best-known artwork is on permanent exhibition at the Elizabeth A. Sackler Center for Feminist Art at the Brooklyn Museum.

[B5] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A Canadian artist with this surname combined painting and sewing in works of "femmage" and co-organized the installation Womanhouse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Schapiro (Meyer Schapiro and Miriam Schapiro)):
    Give this surname, shared by an art historian who included influential papers like "On Some Problems in the Semiotics of Visual Art" in a collected-essays series with simple titles like Romanesque Art and Modern Art.
  Part 2 (ans: Judy Chicago [or Judith Sylvia Cohen]):
    Along with Miriam Schapiro, this artist helped to organize Womanhouse. Her installation The Dinner Party occupies a room in the Brooklyn Museum.
  Part 3 (ans: quilts [accept more specific answers like story quilts]):
    Chicago created an International Honor one of these objects whose triangles represent different women from around the world. Faith Ringgold tells stories using the "patchwork" variety of these textile objects.

[B6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Hannah Wilke molded chewing gum into the shape of these things and attached them to her naked body in her series "S.O.S. Starification Object Series." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: vaginas [or vulvas]):
    Name these things that are often abstractly depicted in 39 "place settings" in a series found in the Brooklyn Museum that begins with the "Primordial Goddess."
  Part 2 (ans: Judy Chicago):
    Those symbolic depictions of 39 "guests of honor" are part of The Dinner Party, a work by this American feminist artist.
  Part 3 (ans: Georgia O'Keeffe):
    The final "guest" in Chicago's The Dinner Party is this American artist, known for her floral abstractions of female genitalia and her painting of a cow's skull in front of a flag colored red, white, and blue.

[B7] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Smithsonian houses a component of this installation featuring a nude man with an erect penis with a tray of bananas at his feet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Womanhouse):
    Name this 1972 installation in which students from the Feminist Art Program at CalArts refitted an abandoned Victorian mansion with a bathroom overflowing with used tampons, a kitchen in which eggs transform into breasts, and a linen closet whose drawers bisect the body of a female mannequin.
  Part 2 (ans: Judy Chicago):
    Womanhouse was jointly organized by Miriam Schapiro and this artist, who arranged place settings for 39 famous women from history in her installation The Dinner Party.
  Part 3 (ans: a bride [the works are Bridal Staircase and The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even]):
    Womanhouse featured a mannequin representing one of these people trailing a long, dirty outfit down a staircase. A cloud inscribed with three "draft pistons" or "nets" lies next to an insectile depiction of one of these people in the upper panel of a 1923 artwork, whose lower panel includes a "chocolate grinder."

[B8] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work of art was originally named "Twenty-Five Women Who Were Eaten Alive." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dinner Party):
    Name this work of art, a triangular table with place settings for 39 famous women from history, decorated with china plates and embroidered runners with vagina imagery.
  Part 2 (ans: Judy Chicago):
    The Dinner Party was created by this feminist artist of Womanhouse and Powerplay, whose media include needlework and welding.
  Part 3 (ans: Judith):
    The Dinner Party features a setting for Artemisia Gentileschi, who painted this biblical woman beheading Holofernes in a work that may have been an allegory for her rape.
