=== STOCK CLUES: Battle of Issus ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Battle of Issus [or The Battle of Alexander at Issus; accept anything mentioning a battle and Alexander the Great, since the original German title is Alexanderschlacht]
  - The miniatures in this painting are similarly styled to those from the artist's The Triumph of Maximilian and The Triumphal Procession, the latter of which he was the second-greatest contributor to. [PWR]
  - This painting is, along with four other paintings from the same cycle commissioned by William IV of Bavaria, displayed in the Alte Pinakothek. [PWR]
  - The presence of a retreating moon in the upper right hand corner in this painting is interpreted as a symbol of the defeat of (*) Muslims. [PWR]
  - Unrealistically, both Cyprus and the Nile River can be seen in this painting, which is the most famous to come out of the Danube School of "world landscape" painters.
  - This painting shows a huge banner in the sky over participants in the title event, who wear anachronistic armor.
  - For 10 points, identify this massive painting by Albrecht Altdorfer which depicts a victory over Alexander the Great. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Originally created to adorn an exedra, this work humorously depicts the rump of a foreshortened brown horse on its right, in front of a frightened man in a chariot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Mosaic [or Battle of Issus Mosaic]):
    Name this work. Possibly a copy of a lost painting by Philoxenus of Eretria, this artwork created with the opus vermiculatum technique depicts its namesake on horseback within its largely-lost left side.
  Part 2 (ans: Pompeii):
    The Alexander Mosaic was originally found in this city, where pornographic wall paintings were found in the House of the Centenary. This city's House of the Faun was preserved by ash from the nearby Mount Vesuvius.
  Part 3 (ans: the head of Medusa [prompt on a severed head by asking "to whom did that head belong?"; prompt on Medusa; prompt on a person, body, corpse, or other answers indicating someone who is dead] (The last work described is Cellini's Perseus with the Head of Medusa.)):
    In the Alexander Mosaic, Alexander's breastplate features this object. Two circular paintings by Caravaggio depict this object, which is held aloft in a 1554 bronze sculpture commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici for the Loggia dei Lanzi.

[B2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The only one of Helena of Egypt's paintings recorded by Pliny the Elder is a contemporaneous depiction of this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Battle of Issus [or The Battle of Alexander at Issus]):
    Name this event also depicted in a fanciful "world landscape" commissioned by the Duke of Bavaria whose Latin inscription was likely composed by Johannes Aventinus.
  Part 2 (ans: Pompeii):
    Helena's painting may be the model for the Alexander Mosaic in this city's House of the Faun. The garden of its House of Sallust and the Villa of the Mysteries are other excavated sites in this Roman city.
  Part 3 (ans: sarcophagus [or sarcophagi; or Alexander Sarcophagus; or Sarcophagus of the Spouses; prompt on such putative synonyms as coffins]):
    Reliefs depicting the Battle of Issus appear on the long side of an originally polychrome object of this type from Sidon. An Etruscan example of these art objects is named for the reclining spouses that top it.

[B3] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: According to Quintus Curtius Rufus, when this woman received a gift of purple fabric to teach her granddaughters dressmaking, she took such offense that her host had to apologize in person. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sisygambis ("suh-SIG-um-biss")):
    Name this woman who pleaded for mercy for the Uxians, knowing that her host "loved her like a mother." Shortly after being captured, this woman mistakenly knelt to a ruler's friend because he was taller than that ruler.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Issus [reject "Battle of Ipsus"]):
    Alexander the Great took Sisygambis hostage after this battle along with other family members of Darius III ("duh-RYE-uss the third"). This was the first of two battles during Alexander's conquest of Persia where Darius III personally commanded the Achaemenid ("uh-KEE-muh-nid") army.
  Part 3 (ans: Roxana [or Roxanne; or Rukhsana; or Roxandra]):
    Not only did Alexander's death lead Sisygambis to starve herself to death out of grief, but it also prompted the murders of her granddaughters Stateira and Drypetis on the orders of this woman from Bactria. Alexander had earlier captured this woman at the Sogdian Rock and married her despite opposition from his advisors.

[B4] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted four scenes from the life of Saint Sebastian for St. Florian Abbey, and he showed a bunch of angels playing around in a Roman fountain in his Rest on the Flight into Egypt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    Name this German artist, said to have painted the first autonomous landscapes in European art history in forest scenes like Landscape with Footbridge.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; accept The Battle of Alexander at Issus; accept Alexander's Victory; accept The Battle of Issus; prompt on just Alexander]):
    In Altdorfer's best-known painting, the moon and the sun appear in the sky simultaneously as a giant inscription floats over a military victory for this general.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint George):
    In a painting by Altdorfer, this saint is dwarfed by a gigantic forest scene; however, he still plays his traditional role of slaying a dragon.

[B5] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man's sons were Geta and Caracalla. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucius Septimius Severus Pertinax):
    Name this man from Leptis Magna who became emperor after marching on Rome, ostensibly to avenge the murder of Pertinax.
  Part 2 (ans: Second Battle of Issus):
    Septimius Severus defeated Pescennius Niger in this battle. In an earlier battle in this location, which took place after the death of Memnon, the Pinarus River supposedly ran red with blood. The losing side in that battle had marched north around the Amanus Mountains, while the winning general had to march to meet the rest of his forces under Parmenion.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander the Great [accept Alexander III of Macedon]):
    Persian emperor Darius III lost to this Macedonian at the earlier Battle of Issus. This son of Philip II also won at the Granicus River and Gaugamela.
