=== STOCK CLUES: Albrecht Altdorfer ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht [accept Albrecht Altdorfer or Albrecht Durer; accept Albert; accept Alberto] (The first painting is Durer's St. Jerome in the Wilderness.)
  - An artist with this first name depicted a red comet on the back of a painting that features a lion based on Venetian emblems. [PWR]
  - A pathetic red dragon fights St. [PWR]
  - George in the bottom right of a lush forest scene by an artist with this first name. [PWR]
  - The Sun sets over a distant Nile River in a world landscape by an artist with this first name inspired by the Battle of Vienna. [PWR]
  - An artist with this first name led the Danube School and included a giant suspended (*) tablet explaining his painting The Battle of Alexander at Issus. [PWR]
  - An angel praying next to a polyhedron and a lion sleeping below a monk writing the Vulgate are two "master prints" by an artist with this first name.
  - For 10 points, give this first name shared by the painter surnamed Altdorfer and the engraver Durer. [GIVE]

[T2] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Albrecht Altdorfer
  - This artist is not Mantegna, but men seated on a bridge look on as a man dressed in green pants shoots an arrow toward a man chained to a column in this painter's The Martyrdom of St. [PWR]
  - Sebastian. [PWR]
  - This artist's engravings served as a major influence to the Little Masters.
  - One of this artist's works shows a large number of tents and the ruins of a castle in the background.
  - The title action of this man's St.
  - George Overcoming the Dragon only takes up a small amount of space on a canvas that is dominated by a forest. [PWR]
  - In another work, this artist showed the (*) crescent moon in the upper left and the setting sun at right. [PWR]
  - This artist of one of Europe's first landscapes, which shows a footbridge, executed another work for William IV of Bavaria that includes a large panel bearing an inscription about the title conflict.
  - For 10 points, name this member of the Danube School who depicted Alexander defeating Darius in The Battle of Issus. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 CREEK+ (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an engraving by this artist, a skull rests on the windowsill as a dog and lion sleep in front of the title saint. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Name this German artist of Saint Jerome in His Study. A putto etches a tablet next to a winged personification of the title concept in this artist's engraving Melencolia I.
  Part 2 (ans: rainbows):
    In Melencolia I, one of these objects appears above a comet and a bat that bears the work's title. One of these objects is depicted above the title building in John Constable's Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    Durer, his pupils, and this artist created a monumental woodcut print known as the Triumphal Arch. This artist's depictions of battle scenes for the Triumphal Procession led to a later painting that depicts a floating tablet as Persian and Macedonian armies clash below.

[B2] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A watercolor landscape by this artist shows a group of broken tree trunks separated from a grove of living pines by a pond. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Name this artist whose other watercolor landscapes include The Water Drawing Mill. This man painted several watercolors showing deserted courtyards in Innsbruck Castle while traveling to Italy.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    This other German artist painted what is considered one of the earliest pure landscapes on oil. That work by this artist shows the titular footbridge between a gatehouse and a larch tree.
  Part 3 (ans: rivers [accept Danube School or Hudson River School]):
    Altdorfer was part of a school of landscape painting named for one of these geographic features. An American movement named after one of these things included Thomas Cole.

[B3] 2015 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Heidelberg School in Australia produced many impressionist works in this genre, which was also the favored subject matter of the Four Wangs and the rest of the Chinese shan shui tradition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: landscape paintings [or landscape art]):
    Identify this genre of painting which was popularized in England by, among others, John Constable, whose works in the form include Wivenhoe Park, Dedham Vale, and many other depictions of the Suffolk area.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederic Edwin Church):
    This member of the Hudson River School made many trips to the Arctic and South America, resulting in such landscapes as Aurora Borealis, The Icebergs, Cotopaxi, and The Heart of the Andes.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    This member of the Danube school created one of the first pure landscapes in oil, his 1520 Landscape with Footbridge. The contemporaneous "world landscape" style influenced his famous Battle of Alexander at Issus.

[B4] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of the earliest painters of these types of works was Joachim Patinir, who include Charon crossing the Styx and the Flight into Egypt in his examples of them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: landscape painting [or landscape art; or landskip; or landschap]):
    Identify this type of painting exemplified by Jacob van Ruisdael's The Windmill at Wijk bij Duurstede ("wike" "by" "DUR-shtayd") Paintings of this type often emphasize elements like mountains and forests, rather than humans.
  Part 2 (ans: Jewish [or Joodse; accept The Jewish Cemetery or De Joodse Begraafplaats or The Jewish Bride or Het Joodse bruidje]):
    Van Ruisdael's landscape painting of one of these types of cemeteries includes a rainbow rising from the left of a ruined building. A father places a necklace on his daughter in a Rembrandt painting titled for this type of "bride".
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    This German Renaissance painter created what many consider to be the first landscape in oil, his Landscape with Footbridge. His most famous painting, though, is his massive, chaotic Battle of Issus.

[B5] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man was a pupil of Lucas Cranach the Elder and painted several works housed in St. Florian's Priory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    Name this German artist of Landscape with a Footbridge, whose most famous work was commissioned by Duke William IV.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon]):
    Duke William IV commissioned The Battle of Issus, which depicts this leader defeating the Persians led by Darius III.
  Part 3 (ans: Annunciation to the Blessed Virgin Mary):
    Altdorfer also made a version of this scene, which is depicted on the central panel of the Merode Altarpiece. Other famous versions of this scene include one by Fra Angelico and the Cestello one by Botticelli.

[B6] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist unusually set his Nativity of the Virgin inside a medieval cathedral and strangely focused the painting's fore-ground on the church's architectural details rather than Christ's birth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    Name this artist whose Landscape with Footbridge is ofen cited as the frst pure landscape painting in Western art and is best-known for a painting that anachronistically dresses a group of people in red turbans to resemble Turks.
  Part 2 (ans: world landscape [or weltlandschaft]):
    Albrecht Altdorfer's The Battle of Issus is the best-known example of this style of painting pioneered by Joachim Patinir, which shows a sweeping panorama of a symbolic landscape with expansive views of oceans and mountains.
  Part 3 (ans: Landscape with the Fall of Icarus Extra Bonus):
    Brueghel adapted the "world landscape" genre for this painting, which shows a man ploughing in the foreground while only the feet of the title mythological character are seen sinking into the sea.

[B7] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted four scenes from the life of Saint Sebastian for St. Florian Abbey, and he showed a bunch of angels playing around in a Roman fountain in his Rest on the Flight into Egypt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    Name this German artist, said to have painted the first autonomous landscapes in European art history in forest scenes like Landscape with Footbridge.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon; accept The Battle of Alexander at Issus; accept Alexander's Victory; accept The Battle of Issus; prompt on just Alexander]):
    In Altdorfer's best-known painting, the moon and the sun appear in the sky simultaneously as a giant inscription floats over a military victory for this general.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint George):
    In a painting by Altdorfer, this saint is dwarfed by a gigantic forest scene; however, he still plays his traditional role of slaying a dragon.

[B8] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify some German artists, none of whom, unfortunately, is master sculptor Tilman Riemenschneider, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    This man's paintings include a noted Christ-like self-portrait in a fur collar, while his better-known engravings include Knight, Death, and the Devil, the Apocalypsis cum Figuris series, and Melencolia I.
  Part 2 (ans: Caspar David Friedrich):
    This Romantic painter was widely criticized for setting a crucifixion scene in a landscape in his altarpiece Cross in the Mountains. The Zirkelstein and the Kaiserkrone appear in his Wanderer Above a Sea of Fog.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    His 1520 Landscape with Footbridge is considered to be one of the first pure landscapes in Western painting, though he's now probably more famous for his grandiose, chaotic Battle of Alexander at Issus.

[B9] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these painters of battle scenes for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leonardoda Vinci [accept either]):
    This artist designed his mural The Battle of Anghiari to rival a Michelangelo piece. He is better known for The Vitruvian Man and Mona Lisa.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    This German painted a giant banner in the sky of his depiction of the Battle of Issus.
  Part 3 (ans: Paolo Uccello):
    This artist of a fresco commemorating Sir John Hawkwood painted a set of three works depicting Niccolo da Tolentino leading Florentine forces to victory.

[B10] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This member of the Danube School painted several works celebrating Regensburg's expulsion of the Jews in 1519. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Altdorfer):
    Identify this artist best known for a battle scene commissioned by Wilhelm IV of Bavaria where the sun sets over the Nile on the right and a crescent moon is about to disappear in the top left.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III]):
    That Altdorfer painting showed this general's victory over Darius at the Battle of Issus. This military leader founded a city in Egypt and also laid siege to Tyre.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [or Lucas Cranach der Altere]):
    Altdorfer made copies of some paintings by this German artist, best known for his depiction of The Judgment of Paris and his portraits of Martin Luther.
