=== STOCK CLUES: Le Corbusier ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 48 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 The Pyramid (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jeanneret [or Jeanneret-Gris; or Jeanneret-Perret; accept Charles-Edouard Jeanneret, Pierre Jeanneret, Albert Jeanneret, Georges Edouard Jeanneret, Marie Jeanneret-Perret; accept Villa Jeanneret-Perret or Villa Jeanneret; prompt on Le Corbusier before "Le Corbusier"]
  - The unassuming white facade of a house named for this family distinguishes it from style sapin buildings in La Chaux-de-Fonds like the Villa Fallet.
  - One member of this family designed teakwood chairs with "horned" legs that fill a university whose library features red brick on a facade with concrete brise soleil.
  - Two designers from this family won the jury prize to design the Palace of Nations but were passed up for a team of more conservative architects.
  - A house named for this family is conjoined to the Villa La Roche and now hosts a foundation for one member.
  - Two members of this family collaborated on the Pavilion of the Esprit Nouveau with Amedee Ozenfant as part of their theory of Purism and later reunited to plan and build the city of Chandigarh.
  - For 10 points, name this family of architects that includes cousins Pierre and Charles-Edouard, who usually went by Le Corbusier. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Le Corbusier ("COR-booz-yay") [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]
  - Alongside his mentee, Balkrishna Doshi, this architect designed the Mill Owners' Building and a house for the Sarabhai family. [PWR]
  - This architect oversaw the construction of the Ministry of Education and Health in Rio and his student Lucio Costa incorporated his theories into the design of Brasilia. [PWR]
  - This architect sought to unify the imperial and customary systems by creating a system based on the height of a man with a raised hand called the Modulor. [PWR]
  - This architect's (*) Ville Radieuse  concept was realized in Chandigarh.
  - Concrete buildings like the Unite d'habitation incorporate this architect's design principles like terrace gardens and pilotis, part of the Five Points he put forward in his book Toward an Architecture.
  - For 10 points, name this Swiss-French architect who designed the Villa Savoye. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Le Corbusier ("luh COR-booz-YAY") [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]
  - This man designed a three-sided cubic structure with perforated walls to illustrate his claim that "the sun can be controlled at all four cardinal points of an edifice." This creator of the Tower of Shadows won three contests to design Moscow's Tsentrosoyuz  building and developed an unused plan for Algiers in which homes would be built under a massive highway.
  - This architect's easternmost building is a National Museum of Western Art in Ueno  Park in Tokyo.
  - This architect helped popularize the use of brise soleils, including on his High Court building in one city.
  - This man and his cousin drew on CIAM's planning principles for a city whose Capitol Complex features a truncated hyperboloid atop its concrete Palace of Assembly and an 85-foot-high "Open Hand" monument.
  - For 10 points, Chandigarh was largely designed by what Swiss-born architect? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]
  - In order to study the ability to adjust sunlight in the four corners of a building, this architect designed the Tower of Shadows. [PWR]
  - This architect wrote "The End of a World" on a sketch of a multi-colored sculpture that can be rotated by the wind.
  - Maxwell Fry and Jane Drew worked with this architect and his cousin on a project for which he designed the Palace of Assembly and the Secretariat Building. [PWR]
  - The golden ratio and the human form inspired much of this architect's (*) Modulor system. [PWR]
  - This architect designed the Open Hand Monument for a planned city based on his ideal "Radiant City." The city of Chandigarh incorporates the "five points," such as free design of facades, as outlined in this architect's Towards a New Architecture.
  - For 10 points, name this Swiss-French architect of the Villa Savoye. [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 History of the World Part II (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Paris (The first sentence refers to "". The 1920s plan is Le Corbusier's Plan Voisin.)
  - This city was the base of the Ministry of Reconstruction and Urbanisation, which in the 50s and 60s prioritized so-called "large building" high rises and apartment blocks that became associated with HLM social housing. [PWR]
  - In the 1990s, most of the national library in this city was moved to a complex of four massive buildings called the Towers of Laws, Time, Numbers, and Letters, respectively. [PWR]
  - A modernist suburb of this city was converted into a concentration camp after 13,000 Jewish residents were rounded up in a central (*) velodrome. [PWR]
  - A 1920s plan named after an automobile maker would have gutted this city's downtown to install 18 cruciform towers.
  - Outgoing heads of state traditionally construct new museums in this city, which in the 1960s underwent renovations under a cultural affairs minister who wrote the novel Man's Fate.
  - For 10 points, the Montparnasse Tower is the only skyscraper in what city with a business district called La Defense? [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]
  - This person created the design of nine hyperbolic paraboloids that greeted visitors with the composition Concret PH . [PWR]
  - This person, who is not a composer, collaborated with Iannis Xenakis  to create music for the opening of the Philips Pavilion, and also worked with Xenakis on the convent of Sainte Marie de La Tourette. [PWR]
  - This person devised a system of measurement based on the proportions of a six-foot-tall man. [PWR]
  - The Athens Charter was based off this person's syndicalist-inspired concept of the (*) "Radiant City," which inspired his design of a city with open-hand sculptures. [PWR]
  - He described the house as a "machine for living in" and suggested the use of pilotis and roof gardens in his treatise Towards a New Architecture.
  - For 10 points, name this Swiss-French architect who incorporated his five points of architecture into the Villa Savoye . [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Le Corbusier [or Charles Edouard Jeanneret]
  - This theorist identified the Parthenon as an example of selection applied to an established standard, and argued that standards were necessary to face the 'Problem of Perfection.' Along with Amedee Ozenfant, this theorist co-wrote the Purist manifesto Apres le Cubisme. [PWR]
  - He emphasized the use of pilotis to suspend buildings off the ground as a hallmark of his style, and the largest of his Open Hand sculptures is in the (*) Indian city of Chandigarh. [PWR]
  - He also designed a system of proportions based on the human body which he called the Modulor.
  - This architect enumerated 'Five Points of Architecture,' which he adapted from a treatise with a chapter titled for 'Eyes that do not See.' For 10 points name this Swiss architect who wrote Towards a New Architecture and designed the Villa Savoy. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Le Corbusier [accept Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]
  - This man wrote an essay about his system of proportions based on the human body called the "Modulor." His design for the League of Nations was disqualified because it was not presented in Indian ink, but with Oscar Niemeyer he co-designed the U.N. headquarters.
  - He featured the Palace of Justice in his layout for the city of Chandigarh and he declared "a house is a machine for living in" in Towards a New Architecture.
  - For 10 points, name this International Style architect who designed the Ronchamp chapel Notre Dame du Haut. [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]
  - This man's submitted design for the League of Nations building in Geneva was rejected on the grounds that he did not write it in Indian ink.
  - One of his buildings has a curved roof resembling an airplane wing that lies slightly above the rest of the building, letting in a crack of light.
  - This man advocated putting gardens on the roofs of buildings to make up for the area taken up by the buildings themselves.
  - Having measured the turning radius of a 1927 Citroen, he designed the ground floor of a house held up by five pilotis such that it appears to be floating.
  - This man called a house "a machine for living" and set forth five points on architecture.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of the Notre Dame du Haut and the Villa Savoye. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many elements of this plan were used by Lucio Costa and Oscar Niemeyer in their layout for Brasilia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Radiant City [accept Ville Radieuse]):
    Name this proposed urban design project which would have been based on the abstract shape of the human body. This unrealized plan featured identical housing blocks and green spaces on a Cartesian grid.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanerret]):
    The Radiant City was outlined by this architect, who created five design principles in his "Five Points of Architecture." This architect also designed the Villa Savoye.
  Part 3 (ans: Palace of the Soviets):
    Le Corbusier's other failed plans included his exoskeleton version of this administrative center. This canceled project would have consisted of staggered stacks of ribbed cylinders with a statue of Vladimir Lenin at the top.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Aldous Huxley described the "colossal pointlessness" of a series by this artist that includes a man being tortured on a rack amidst open-air picturesque ruins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Battista Piranesi ("pee-rah-NAY-zee") [or Giambattista Piranesi] (The series in the first line is Piranesi's Carceri d'invenzione)):
    Name this artist, who earned the nickname Sir Pastiche in part for his restorations of ancient vases with invented reconstructions. His architectural vedute ("vay-DOO-tay") were popular on the Grand Tour.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    This architect once called Piranesi "horrible, ugly, and idiotic," but non-baseball announcer Vin Scully argued that Piranesian space influenced his work. He wrote the Five Points of Architecture and designed the Villa Savoye ("sav-WAH").
  Part 3 (ans: Metropolis):
    Piranesi inspired Boris Balinsky's poster for this film, while Heinz Schulz-Neudamm's ("NOY-dahm's") poster for it is the most expensive film poster ever sold. The tallest building in this film's central city is the Breughel-inspired New Tower of Babel.

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect proclaimed "A room is not a room without natural light" and designed an octagonal government building whose assembly chamber is lit by large semi-circle-shaped windows. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis Kahn [or Louis Isadore Kahn; or Itze-Leib Schmuilowsky]):
    Name this Estonian-American architect who designed the National Parliament House of Bangladesh and filtered light through barrel vaults in his design for the Kimball Art Museum.
  Part 2 (ans: Villa Savoye ("sav-WAH") (The Villa Savoye was constructed by Le Corbusier.)):
    Large bay windows let natural light into this building through its free facades. This concrete "machine for living" was constructed outside Paris to exemplify its creator's Five Points of Architecture.
  Part 3 (ans: Pantheon [or the Roman Pantheon or Pantheum or Pantheion]):
    At this building, a large oculus lets in natural light through the world's largest unreinforced concrete dome. This Roman temple was dedicated to all the gods.

[B4] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This art movement, regarded to be an offshoot of cubism, was founded based on its creators' criticisms of the preceding movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Purism):
    Name this art movement co-founded by Amedee Ozenfant. Its main concepts were outlined in an essay titled Apres le Cubisme.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [accept Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    This Swiss-French architect co-founded the Purism movement with Ozenfant. He is known for designing the Villa Savoye and a chapel in Ronchamp, France.
  Part 3 (ans: the Parthenon):
    In Towards a New Architecture, Le Corbusier called this building a "machine for stirring emotion." This building formerly housed the Elgin marbles.

[B5] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect applied his concept of "architectural alchemy" to the design of the 8 House, a bow-shaped building that was its country's largest-ever private development. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bjarke Bundgaard Ingels):
    Name this architect, whose firm worked with JDS Architects on the housing projects VM Houses and Mountain Dwellings, both in Ørestad.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanerret]):
    The VM Houses in Copenhagen were inspired by this architect's concept of Unite d'Habitation. This Swiss-French architect applied his "five points of architecture" to the Villa Savoye.
  Part 3 (ans: Legos [accept Lego House]):
    Twenty-five million of these objects were used in Ingels' design for a house in Billund, located near a tourist attraction and factory that first produced them under Ole Kirk Christiansen.

[B6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Jewish architects from this art school who were fleeing Nazi persecution designed many buildings in Tel Aviv, which has the most buildings in the world in this school's International Style. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bauhaus [or Staatliches Bauhaus]):
    Name this art school in Weimar, which was founded by Walter Gropius (GROH-pee-us) in 1919. Its name is German for "building house."
  Part 2 (ans: White City):
    A section in Tel Aviv with this two-word English name is a UNESCO World Heritage site with over 4,000 Bauhaus buildings. An architectural project in Jackson Park headed by Daniel Burnham also had this name.
  Part 3 (ans: Le Corbusier (lay cor-b'yoo-zee-AY) [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    Israeli architect Sam Barkai was influenced by Bauhaus and the ideas of this architect under whom he trained. This architect designed the Open Hand Monument in India.

[B7] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Minnette de Silva, the first Sri Lankan woman architect, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    As the youngest and first Asian delegate to a meeting of the International Congress of Modern Architecture, de Silva befriended this architect, whose later works in the Indian subcontinent include designing Chandigarh.
  Part 2 (ans: mats [accept flooring; reject "rugs"]):
    De Silva highlighted traditional crafts by employing artisans to create dumbaras, a Sri Lankan type of these decorative items, for many of her houses. Traditional Japanese homes feature a sort of these items called tatami.
  Part 3 (ans: regionalism [or modern regionalism or critical regionalism]):
    Although de Silva's style is often dubbed "tropical modernism," she preferred to call it a "modern" form of this term. Her use of this term predates the popularization of a similar term in an essay subtitled "six points for an architecture of resistance" by nearly 25 years.

[B8] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Preserving peace between Westalis and Ostania is a stressful job for the characters of Spy x Family, which must be why they relax on some comfy and famous chairs on the volume covers! For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    The first volume features the spy Twilight sitting cross-legged on the second in a series of chairs given this designer's initials and number, which follow this designer's human scale-based "Modulor" system.
  Part 2 (ans: marshmallow sofa [or Marshmallow Love Seat #5670]):
    The telepath Anya sits playfully on this chair designed by Irving Harper from George Nelson Associates. This chair connects a series of cushions shaped like its namesake objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Bauhaus [or Straatliches Bauhaus]):
    Counterintelligence agent Yuri Briar leans back on the Barcelona chair in the fifth volume cover, potentially signaling Yuri's alignment with this modernist Weimar-era school of design and architecture. Mies van der Rohe, this school's last director, co-designed the Barcelona chair.

[B9] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about monumental modernist architectural plans that were never realized, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Italy (The architect is Antonio Sant'Elia, and the building is the Palazzo della Civilta Italiana.)):
    An architect from this country imagined massive ziggurat-like buildings with floors connected by external walkways and elevators in his vision of the "New City." A stark-white rectangular building in this country's capital has a flat facade dominated by a dense 6-by-9 grid of arches.
  Part 2 (ans: Antoni Gaudi (The apartment building is the Casa Mila.)):
    This architect's unrealized 1908 plan for his enormous Hotel Attraction in New York was reconsidered after 9/11. He also designed an apartment building with wrought-iron balconies nicknamed "the stone quarry."
  Part 3 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret; accept Le Corb]):
    This architect included cross-shaped skyscrapers connected by a grid of greenery in the design for his ideal city, the Ville Radieuse. This Swiss-French modernist also designed the Villa Savoye.

[B10] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The fractious authorship dispute over this book, in which Amedee Ozenfant claimed much of the credit for it, relied on the fact that its constituent essays were published under a shared pseudonym in the journal L'Esprit Nouveau. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Towards a New Architecture [or Towards an Architecture or Vers un architecture]):
    Name this 1923 book which proposes raising buildings on concrete 'pilotis' as one of the 'five points' of its subject.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    Though based at least partly on Ozenfant's contributions, Towards a New Architecture is usually credited to this Swiss architect, who used its principles in his design for the Villa Savoye.
  Part 3 (ans: Purism [accept word forms]):
    Before they fell out over the credit for Towards a New Architecture, Le Corbusier and Ozenfant led this less-decorative offshoot of Cubism, which set out to depict objects in a simplified form without extraneous detail.

[B11] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some things about Swiss architects, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: stadium [or arena; accept Olympic stadium; accept sports stadium or athletics stadium or soccer stadium] (The buildings are the Allianz Arena and the Beijing National Stadium known as the "Bird's Nest.")):
    The Swiss firm Herzog & de Meuron designed a Munich building of this type with an inflatable light-up exterior, as well as a building of this type whose framework of curved steel beams was inspired by Chinese pottery.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]):
    This Swiss-born French architect was a major figure in the International Style, using columns known as pilotis in the Villa Savoye ("vee-lah sav-WAH"). He later designed the Notre Dame du Haut ("no-truh DOM doo oh") chapel.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Zumthor):
    This Swiss architect designed the Therme Vals spa, a minimalist building of thin horizontal grey stone layers. He also designed the Kolumba museum in Cologne and the new LACMA museum building.

[B12] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Social Science
     Leadin: Arguments against attempts to "renew" these places are presented in a book by Jane Jacobs about the "life and death" of "Great American" ones. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cities [accept city or urban areas, locations, renewal, etc.]):
    Give these locations that are often modeled as concentric zones around a central business district.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier ("luh cor-booz-YAY")):
    Jacobs also criticized this theorist, whose concept of a "radiant city" was the inspiration for the design of Chandigarh ("CHON-dee-gar"). In a treatise, this theorist advocates for roof gardens and the use of pilotis.
  Part 3 (ans: William Whyte (That book is The Organization Man.)):
    This sociologist invited Jacobs to contribute essays to Fortune magazine, after which the essays were added to the book Exploding Metropolis. Earlier, Fortune sponsored interviews of CEOs for this sociologist's best-known book, which studies conformity in large companies in the 1950s.

[B13] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A darker version of this house in Canberra was designed by Ashton Raggatt MacDougall and is known as the "Southern Hemisphere shadow." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Villa Savoye):
    Name this modernist house in Poissy. This house has a lower level with a curved side for cars to pull up to below a main floor that is supported by piloti.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    The Villa Savoye was designed by this author of "Towards a New Architecture" who planned the city of Chandigarh; more bizarrely, he carried his wife's vertebrae around after she died.
  Part 3 (ans: Open Hand Monument):
    This 26-meter tall sheet metal sculpture in Chandigarh was designed by Corbusier. It was intended as a "sign of peace and of reconciliation," and is named after a motif that recurs in Corbusier's works.

[B14] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This movement's 1960 manifesto included projects listed under the headings "Ocean City" and "Space City." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Metabolism [or:Metabolist school]):
    Name this Japanese architecture movement that focused partly on self-contained urban megastructures.
  Part 2 (ans: Kenzo Tange):
    This leader of the Metabolist school designed a peace memorial park for Hiroshima and the Yoyogi National Gymnasium for the Tokyo Olympics.
  Part 3 (ans: Le Corbusier):
    The Yoyogi Natioanl Gymnasium was influenced by this man's Philips Pavilion. This Frenchman demonstrated his five points of architecture in the house Villa Savoye.

[B15] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about key works of architecture theory by architects, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret-Gris]):
    This Swiss-born architect of the square, stilt-raised Villa Savoye developed a modern view of how to de-sign buildings in Towards a New Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Las Vegas, Nevada [or Paradise, Nevada]):
    Architect Robert Venturi published a study about Learning from this American city, where Dale Chihuly de-signed a glass sculpture for the Bellagio.
  Part 3 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [or Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    This architect of the CCTV television headquarters in Beijing collaborated with Bruce Mau on a theoretical survey of his work, and of the "Architecture of Bigness," in the book S, M, L, XL.

[B16] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many of the ideas in this house were later expanded in the Rourke House, and its architect mandated that photographer Julius Shulman emphasize its novel mechanized sliding living room panes and temperature controls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kaufmann Desert House):
    Name this domicile built in the International Style by Richard Neutra in 1946, commissioned by and named for the man who also commissioned Wright's Fallingwater.
  Part 2 (ans: Los Angeles, California):
    Richard Neutra built the Landfair and Strathmore Apartments in this city. Neutra also constructed the steel-framed Lovell House on the side of a ravine in this city in partnership with Rudolph Schindler.
  Part 3 (ans: Le Corbusier [or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret]):
    This other architect designed his Villa Savoye in the International Style and wrote Towards A New Architecture.

[B17] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Intended to be "the symbol of our epoch," this motif was said by its creator to be able to "receive the created riches" and to "distribute them to the peoples of the world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Open Hand):
    Name this artistic motif, a symbol of choice embodied in not selecting sides in the Cold War, most notably exemplified by a 28 meter tall statue in India.
  Part 2 (ans: Chandigarh):
    The largest statue of the Open Hand is found in this city home to the Punjab and Haryana Secretariat, the Gandhi Bhavan, and the Zakir Hussain Rose Garden.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Edouard Jeanneret [or Le Corbusier]):
    The city of Chandigarh was planned by this architect who advocated the Modulor proportion system and embodied his five points of architecture in his Villa Savoye.
