=== STOCK CLUES: Elizabeth Gaskell ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 15 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 35 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Gaskell [accept Mrs. Gaskell]
  - In one of this author's novels, a man is transfixed by the heroine's bracelet falling down her arm and being replaced, and by the way that she used her fingers as sugar tongs.
  - In another of this author's works, Mr.
  - Benson reads from Revelation 7 because he is too distraught to deliver a sermon when he remembers first meeting the dead heroine at Llan-dhu [hlan-du] with her wealthy lover Mr.
  - Bellingham whom she had died nursing.
  - In a letter, Charles Dickens described this writer as 'dear Scheherazade' and one of their works serialized in Household Works tells of Margaret Hale's move from her hometown 'like a village in a poem', Helstone to the Darkshire town of Milton.
  - For 10 points, name this Victorian novelist of Ruth, and North and South. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Gaskell
  - In one of this author's stories, a rural worker who leads a second life as a poacher has his attempts at redemption repeatedly foiled by the thought of his enemy Dick Jackson.
  - Job Legh collects insects in a novel by this author, in which the main story follows the reconciliation between a mill-owning and a mill-working family.
  - As well as Mary Barton, this author wrote a novel in which Margaret Hale falls in love with Mr Thornton and sheds some of her assumptions about the North.
  - For 10 points, identify this author of Cranford and North and South. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Gaskell
  - In a novel by this author, the entire town delights in hearing a story about a cat who swallowed a piece of lace and how the lace was later cleaned after being excreted, and Betsy Barker attempts to save a cow that had fallen into a lime-pit by dressing it in flannel. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a novel in which the title character becomes a nurse to typhoid patients and again re-encounters the MP Donne, who is actually the nefarious seducer (*) Bellingham. [PWR]
  - Thornton studies classics and decides to treat his workers beter in another novel by this writer, in which the Hale family moves to Milton.
  - This author of Ruth and Wives and Daughters created Miss Matty, who must sell tea after losing her money in a bank collapse in a novel narrated by Mary Smith.
  - For 10 points, name this author of North and South and Cranford. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This magazine published the story "A House to Let," whose four collaborating authors included Wilkie Collins and Adelaide Anne Proctor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Household Words):
    Name this weekly magazine published in the 1850s, before it was directly replaced by its successor All the Year Round.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Dickens [Charles John Huffam Dickens]):
    This editor of Household Words and writer of Hard Times was one of the co-authors of "A House to Let."
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell [Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell or Elizabeth Cleghorn Stevenson]):
    The final author of "A House to Let" was this author of a biography of Charlotte Bronte, who serialized her novels Cranford and North and South in Household Words.

[B2] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Note to moderator: Please read the answerline for the first part carefully. Right after this book's publication, its author fled to Rome with their daughters Marianne and Meta, and proceeded to perhaps fall in love with Charles Eliot Norton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Life of Charlotte Bronte [accept Elizabeth Gaskell's biography of Charlotte Bronte or equivalent descriptions; prompt on answers that describe a biography of Charlotte Bronte without naming its author by asking "By whom?"; prompt on answers that describe an Elizabeth Gaskell biography of a Bronte sister but that do not indicate which one by asking "which Bronte?"; prompt on answers that describe an Elizabeth Gaskell book on Charlotte Bronte, but that do not indicate what genre of book]):
    Name or describe this book, whose author blithely noted that they had "three people [whom they wanted] to libel" in it. This book blames Lydia Robinson for the death of its subject's brother Branwell.
  Part 2 (ans: William Wetmore Story [accept William Wetmore Story and His Friends] (Story's sculpture Cleopatra is attributed to Kenyon in The Marble Faun.)):
    While in Rome, Gaskell stayed at the house of this sculptor, the inspiration for Kenyon in Hawthorne's The Marble Faun. Henry James wrote a biography titled [this sculptor] And His Friends.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Browning AND Elizabeth Barrett Browning [accept the Brownings; accept Elizabeth Barrett in place of "Elizabeth Barrett Browning"] (Nell Stevens wrote Mrs. Gaskell and Me.)):
    Nell Stevens's fictionalization of Gaskell's time in Rome includes a chapter describing Harriet Hosmer's casting of the Clasped Hands of these two people. One of these two people was the addressee of the other's line, "Yes, call me by my pet-name!"

[B3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this story, the Cambridge "ontography" professor Parkins takes a golfing holiday to Burnstow, where he finds a bronze object bearing the legends "FUR FLA FLE BIS" and "QUIS EST ISTE QUI UENIT" in the ruins of a Templar preceptory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Oh, Whistle and I'll Come to You, My Lad"):
    Name this story, titled for a Robert Burns poem, which ends after Parkins is narrowly saved from a being wrapped in bedclothes.
  Part 2 (ans: ghost story/stories/fiction/etc. [accept Ghost Stories of an Antiquary; prompt on supernatural or horror stories, or similar less specific answers]):
    M.R. James's "Oh, Whistle and I'll Come to You, My Lad" appears in a collection titled for this genre of story narrated by an antiquary. The full title of A Christmas Carol describes it as one of these stories "of Christmas."
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell [or Elizabeth Cleghorn Stevenson; accept Mrs Gaskell from weird Brits]):
    This author first made her name with ghost stories like "The Old Nurse's Story," which was commissioned for the magazine Household Words. She chose to omit salacious details from her biography of Charlotte Bronte.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The first biography of this author omitted her obsession with the married Constantin Heger, who may have been the basis for M. Paul Emanuel in Villette. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlotte Bronte [accept The Life of Charlotte Bronte; prompt on Bronte]):
    That biography draws on the extensive correspondences between Ellen Nussey and what author of Jane Eyre?
  Part 2 (ans: North and South (by Elizabeth Gaskell)):
    The author of The Life of Charlotte Bronte also wrote this novel in which John Thornton contends with strikes at his cotton mill and eventually marries Margaret Hale.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens] (The novel is Bleak House.)):
    Elizabeth Gaskell often feuded with this author, who published North and South in his magazine Household Words. This author also wrote a novel about the case Jarndyce and Jarndyce.

[B5] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman who serves this foodstuff at Weydon-Priors fair adds alcohol to it if customers wink at her and pay her extra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: frumenty [or furmity; or fromity; or fermenty; prompt on porridge; prompt on mash]):
    Name this foodstuff. In The Mayor of Casterbridge, Michael Henchard consumes too much of this foodstuff, which has been spiked with rum, causing him to become belligerently drunk and sell his wife and child.
  Part 2 (ans: Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There [or Alice Through the Looking-Glass]):
    Alice is told by a gnat that the snap-dragon-fly lives only on mince pies and frumenty in this sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell [or Elizabeth Cleghorn Stevenson] (The latter novel is North and South.)):
    Margaret Dawson learns to make frumenty at Hanbury Court in this author's novel My Lady Ludlow. This author wrote a novel in which Margaret Hale moves from the village of Helstone to the industrial town of Milton.

[B6] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some works of Victorian literature which comment on temperance:
  Part 1 (ans: The Tenant of Wildfell Hall):
    In this novel, Helen Graham's brother Mr Lawrence notes that "with some persons, temperance is almost impossible". Helen's husband Arthur Huntingdon dies from alcoholism, allowing her to marry Gilbert Markham.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    Leonards dies after a fall exacerbates an injury caused by his intemperance and Mr Thornton praises the virtues of sober conduct to Margaret Hale in North and South, a novel by this author of Cranford.
  Part 3 (ans: Sibyl, or The Two Nations [accept The Two Nations]):
    A working class radical named Devilsdust in this novel by the author of Coningsby states, "we shall never get our rights till we leave off consuming exciseable articles; and the best thing to begin with is liquors".

[B7] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay is particularly critical of "mind-and-millinery" novels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Silly Novels by Lady Novelists"):
    Name this George Eliot essay that attacks books with beautiful, impeccable, well-read female protagonists as being detrimental to the education of women in the Victorian era.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    In the essay, Eliot does praise a select few female novelists including this author of Mary Barton and North and South .

[B8] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about "Condition of England" novels, a body of fiction investigating social issues in the wake of the Industrial Revolution in Britain, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Carlyle [the novel is Sartor Resartus]):
    The term derives from the "Condition of England" question raised by this author in his essay "Chartism." In his only novel, an unnamed Editor preoccupied with contemporary social issues struggles to review a philosophical study of clothes authored by Diogenes Teufelsdrockh.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Barton [by Elizabeth Gaskell]):
    The preface to this novel expresses the author's sympathy with those "doomed to struggle through their lives in strange alternations between work and want." Its title character loves Jem Wilson, who had saved his father and a worker from a fire at the Carson Mill.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin Disraeli):
    This author wrote that the gulf between the rich and poor in England had grown so wide that its citizens live in "two nations," a phrase which subtitles his novel Sybil. He is better-known for being Britain's only Jewish prime minister.

[B9] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this novel considered calling it Death and Variations, because each character dies in a manner consistent with their personality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this novel in which Margaret Hale moves from rural Helstone to the impoverished town of Darkshire. She eventually marries John Thornton, who shuts down his cotton mill due to a strike.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    North and South was written by this Victorian novelist of Wives and Daughters and Cranford.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary):
    Gaskell wrote about Jem Wilson's love for a title character with this first name and last name Barton. The first part of Cranford is narrated by a title character with this first name, the same as the author of Frankenstein.

[B10] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these Victorian authors of novels about fallen women, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    Ex-prostitute Mercy Merrick adopts the identity of the Franco-Prussian War casualty Grace Roseberry in The New Mag- 7 dalen, an out-of-print novel by this author who's better known for The Woman in White.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    An orphan sweatshop girl is swept into an afair with the rakish aristocrat Henry Bellingham in this author's depressing book Ruth, and the title character's sister Esther becomes a streetwalker in her novel Mary Barton.
  Part 3 (ans: George Moore [the book is Esther Waters]):
    This author wrote a novel in which the kitchen-maid Esther is impregnated by the footman William Latch, but resolves to raise the child despite facing hardships such as her family moving to Australia.

[B11] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel is set in the industrial city of Milton, which is modeled after Manchester. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this novel whose protagonist, Margaret Hale, meets the Union leader Nicholas Higgins and eventually marries John Thornton, the owner of a cotton mill.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell [or Elizabeth Stevenson]):
    North and South was written by this woman who also wrote a biography of Charlotte Bronte. Her novels include Mary Barton and Cranford.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Dickens):
    Many of Gaskell's works were published in Household Words, a journal published by this creator of Ebenezer Scooge.

[B12] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At a strike in this novel, the main female character steps out of a barricaded house to quell the rioters, while Higgins goes to work to support the family of his friend who killed himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this novel in which Mr. Thornton eventually runs his mill in cooperation with his workers, which allows him to win the hand of Margaret Hale.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    North and South was written by this author who created the spinster sisters Miss Matty and Miss Deborah in Cranford and also penned Mary Barton.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlotte Bronte [prompt on partial answer]):
    Gaskell is also known for a biographical work about this other author who wrote about a woman who dies with the name of her beloved Walter on her lips in her poem "Apostasy." She also penned the novel Villette.
