=== STOCK CLUES: Mary Barton ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a woman is hit with a stone while protecting a mill owner from a crowd of striking workers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell [or Elizabeth Stevenson] (The novel is North and South.)):
    Name this author of that social novel about Margaret Hale and John Thornton. That novel by this author is titled for two contrasting regions that represent tradition and the landed gentry versus modernity and capitalism.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Barton [or Mary Barton]):
    An earlier Gaskell novel explores industrialization and labor relations through this protagonist, whose father joins the Chartist movement. This protagonist is conflicted between loving the working-class Jem Wilson or the wealthy Harry Carson.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens]):
    Gaskell's novels North and South and Cranford were serialized in Household Words, a magazine edited by this author. During his editorial tenure, this author also wrote Bleak House and David Copperfield.

[B2] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about "Condition of England" novels, a body of fiction investigating social issues in the wake of the Industrial Revolution in Britain, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Carlyle [the novel is Sartor Resartus]):
    The term derives from the "Condition of England" question raised by this author in his essay "Chartism." In his only novel, an unnamed Editor preoccupied with contemporary social issues struggles to review a philosophical study of clothes authored by Diogenes Teufelsdrockh.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Barton [by Elizabeth Gaskell]):
    The preface to this novel expresses the author's sympathy with those "doomed to struggle through their lives in strange alternations between work and want." Its title character loves Jem Wilson, who had saved his father and a worker from a fire at the Carson Mill.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin Disraeli):
    This author wrote that the gulf between the rich and poor in England had grown so wide that its citizens live in "two nations," a phrase which subtitles his novel Sybil. He is better-known for being Britain's only Jewish prime minister.

[B3] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel chases after the cousin of her lover in order to get him to testify in the murder of Harry Carson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mary Barton):
    Name this novel whose title character ends up marrying Jem Wilson after protecting her Chartist father John, the actual murderer of Carson.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell [or Elizabeth Cleghorn Stevenson]):
    Mary Barton was written by this female British author, who also wrote about the contrast between the contemptuous Margaret Hale and the hard-working John Thornton in North and South.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry):
    The title character of Gaskell's Ruth is abandoned by Mr. Bellingham, who has this first name. In a Shakespeare play, a king of this name gives the St. Crispin's Day speech at Agincourt.
