=== STOCK CLUES: North and South ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Ahead By a Century (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: the partition of Vietnam [accept synonyms for partition; answers involving the creation of North and South Vietnam as separate countries; prompt on answers involving the French leaving Vietnam and ask "what related change was made alongside it?"]
  - Description acceptable.
  - Shortly before this event, a small group of American saboteurs used contaminants to destroy bus engines and dropped leaflets describing a three day worker's holiday. [PWR]
  - During a 300-day grace period after this event, hundreds of thousands of people including many Catholics moved to one country during the Operation Passage to Freedom, while "Revolutionary Regroupees" moved in the opposite direction. [PWR]
  - Planned elections that would reverse this event were stalled by the leader of the (*) Personality Labor Revolutionary Party, as he would likely have lost them convincingly. [PWR]
  - To balance American and Chinese interests, this event was meant to be reversed two years after the 1954 Geneva Conference, which created an ostensibly temporary border along the 17th parallel that was only abolished in 1976.
  - For 10 points, name or describe this event that occurred alongside the end of French Indochina that was reversed after the fall of Saigon. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: North and South
  - This novel's protagonist is paralleled by the feminist scholar Robyn Penrose, who is forced to spend time with Vic Wilcox due to a "shadow scheme" run by Rummidge University, in a novel that echoes its basic plot, David Lodge's Nice Work.
  - In this novel, Leonards drunkenly collapses in the street, hours after being pushed off a railroad platform by the protagonist's fugitive brother Frederick. [PWR]
  - In its chapter "A Blow and its Consequences," the protagonist is hit in the head with a rock while embracing a man to protect him from a crowd of (*) striking workers.
  - Serialized weekly in Household Words in 1854 and 1855, this "condition of England" novel begins with the protagonist's family moving from rural Helstone to the industrial town of Milton.
  - It centers on the relationship between Margaret Hale and the factory owner John Thornton.
  - For 10 points, name this novel by Elizabeth Gaskell whose title contrasts the two title regions of England. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 MGMT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: North and South
  - One character in this novel is worried that a man named Leonards recognized her at the market, and that man is later found dead a few hours after he gets into a fight with the protagonist's brother at a train station.
  - Another character in this novel adopts the children of John Boucher after Boucher kills himself, and that character's daughter Bessie dies from brown lung disease.
  - The protagonist arrives in the central town after her father leaves the Church of England because of his conscience, and discovers after Mr.
  - Bell's death that she has inherited Marlborough Mills, allowing her to propose a plan to help John Thornton save it.
  - For 10 points, name this novel about Margaret Hale which contrasts the two title regions, written by Elizabeth Gaskell. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a woman is hit with a stone while protecting a mill owner from a crowd of striking workers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell [or Elizabeth Stevenson] (The novel is North and South.)):
    Name this author of that social novel about Margaret Hale and John Thornton. That novel by this author is titled for two contrasting regions that represent tradition and the landed gentry versus modernity and capitalism.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Barton [or Mary Barton]):
    An earlier Gaskell novel explores industrialization and labor relations through this protagonist, whose father joins the Chartist movement. This protagonist is conflicted between loving the working-class Jem Wilson or the wealthy Harry Carson.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens]):
    Gaskell's novels North and South and Cranford were serialized in Household Words, a magazine edited by this author. During his editorial tenure, this author also wrote Bleak House and David Copperfield.

[B2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Chet Van Duzer helped restore one of the objects that depicts people of the "Panotii" tribe with ears big enough to function as sleeping bags. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: maps [or mappa mundi; accept Fra Mauro map; accept map projection; accept Mercator projection]):
    Name these objects. For Afonso V, Fra Mauro created one of these objects, another of which was made by German cartographer Gerardus Mercator.
  Part 2 (ans: south is at the top [or south-up; accept answers about north and south being flipped or inverted]):
    Description acceptable. Unlike most Western maps at the time, Fra Mauro's map has this unusual feature, which reflects the influence of Muslim cartographers like Mohammed al-Idris, who also created maps with this feature.
  Part 3 (ans: Roger [accept Roger II]):
    al-Idrisi is best known for a south-up map created for a ruler with this name, whose coronation mantle features two lines and the Islamic date 528. This first King of Sicily's Hauteville Dynasty had this name.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The first biography of this author omitted her obsession with the married Constantin Heger, who may have been the basis for M. Paul Emanuel in Villette. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlotte Bronte [accept The Life of Charlotte Bronte; prompt on Bronte]):
    That biography draws on the extensive correspondences between Ellen Nussey and what author of Jane Eyre?
  Part 2 (ans: North and South (by Elizabeth Gaskell)):
    The author of The Life of Charlotte Bronte also wrote this novel in which John Thornton contends with strikes at his cotton mill and eventually marries Margaret Hale.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens] (The novel is Bleak House.)):
    Elizabeth Gaskell often feuded with this author, who published North and South in his magazine Household Words. This author also wrote a novel about the case Jarndyce and Jarndyce.

[B4] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: George A. Lincoln, Charles Bonesteel ("BON-uh-stell"), and a future secretary of state proposed this boundary based mainly on one glance at a National Geographic map. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Korean Border [accept the 38th parallel north; accept any answer describing the dividing line between North and South Korea]):
    Describe this boundary, which cut through the village of Panmunjom and has been surrounded by a namesake Demilitarized Zone since the end of a 1953 "police action."
  Part 2 (ans: Dean Rusk):
    This aforementioned co-worker of Lincoln and Bonesteel names diplomatic correspondences with Yang You-chan ("yoh-CHAN") over Japan's liability for damage to Korea. As secretary of state, he greenlit Ngo Dinh Diem's ("in-GOH DIN DYEM's") overthrow.
  Part 3 (ans: Treaty of San Francisco [or San Furanshisuko kowa-Joyaku; prompt on Treaty of Peace with Japan or U.S.-Japan Security Treaty (or Japanese equivalents) with "In what city was that treaty signed?]):
    Rusk told Yang that the maritime Macarthur Line would hold until this 1951 treaty took effect. This treaty names the US's "system" of "hub and spokes" bilateral defense treaties with Pacific countries, especially Japan.

[B5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Wilkie Collins's novel No Name uses this device in the line, "Was it the spectre of the woman? Or the woman herself?," which blurs the line between the narrator and the protagonist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: free indirect discourse [or FID; or free indirect speech; or free indirect style; or discours indirect libre]):
    Give this three-word literary term in which a third-person narrator expresses their own thoughts while inhabiting the thoughts and speech styles of a character.
  Part 2 (ans: Middlemarch):
    David Lodge argued that free indirect discourse, rather than a single omniscient narrator, characterized 19th-century realist novels in his essay on this George Eliot novel about Dorothea Brooke.
  Part 3 (ans: North and South):
    In this novel, free indirect discourse is used to describe a "tinge of contempt" in rejecting Mr. Lennox's marriage proposal. Margaret Hale moves to the industrial town of Milton in this Elizabeth Gaskell novel.

[B6] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman who serves this foodstuff at Weydon-Priors fair adds alcohol to it if customers wink at her and pay her extra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: frumenty [or furmity; or fromity; or fermenty; prompt on porridge; prompt on mash]):
    Name this foodstuff. In The Mayor of Casterbridge, Michael Henchard consumes too much of this foodstuff, which has been spiked with rum, causing him to become belligerently drunk and sell his wife and child.
  Part 2 (ans: Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There [or Alice Through the Looking-Glass]):
    Alice is told by a gnat that the snap-dragon-fly lives only on mince pies and frumenty in this sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell [or Elizabeth Cleghorn Stevenson] (The latter novel is North and South.)):
    Margaret Dawson learns to make frumenty at Hanbury Court in this author's novel My Lady Ludlow. This author wrote a novel in which Margaret Hale moves from the village of Helstone to the industrial town of Milton.

[B7] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this novel dies after complaining about the "fluff" in her lungs and the "mill-noises in [her] ears for ever." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this novel in which Margaret Hale moves to the manufacturing town of Milton and experiences an adversarial courtship with industrialist John Thornton as she seeks to improve conditions for the local workers.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth (Cleghorn) Gaskell):
    North and South was written by this author of Cranford. Much of her writing was published in Charles Dickens's magazine Household Words.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlotte Bronte [prompt on just Bronte]):
    Elizabeth Gaskell wrote the first biography of this friend of hers, who wrote novels like Jane Eyre.

[B8] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Geographers at University College London recently claimed this quantity's fall before 1600 indirectly led to a global temperature drop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: population of the pre-Columbian Americas [or things like population of American Indians in 1492; or population of North and South Americabefore Columbus or Europeans or the Spanish; prompt on answers like "population of the Americas" with "When?"]):
    Name this quantity. Drawing on statistics taken from Bartolome de las Casas and projecting backwards, Henry Dobyns estimated this value at over 100 million, though the current consensus puts it closer to 50 million.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred W (orcester) Crosby):
    In his book Ecological Imperialism, this historian argued that European invaders were as successful as they were thanks to the simultaneous spread of familiar European plants, animals, and diseases to the Americas.
  Part 3 (ans: syphilis [prompt on Treponemapallidum or T. pallidum]):
    Crosby considered this to be one of the few diseases that went from the New World to the Old in the Columbian Exchange, though he became less certain of its New World origins over time. It was called the "French disease" after it was spread by French troops attacking Naples in 1495.

[B9] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Epidemics of smallpox and cocoliztli ("ko-ko-LEEST-lee") are major complications in trying to estimate the early modern population of this broad region. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: America [or the Americas; or North and South America; accept New World or Western Hemisphere]):
    Name this region whose history is divided into "pre-Columbian" and "Columbian" eras, which likely had 90 to 95 percent of its population killed by smallpox. The earliest estimates of this two-continent region's pre-contact population hovered around 2 million.
  Part 2 (ans: Bartolome de las Casas):
    This 16th-century Spanish priest was an early proponent of a "high count" of pre-Columbian populations, estimating that 8 million people lived in Haiti before Columbus's arrival. He defended Indian rights in the Valladolid ("vah-yah-doh-LEED") Debates.
  Part 3 (ans: Borah [accept Woodrow Borah or William Borah]):
    The "high count" school was repopularized in the 1970s by a Berkeley historian with this surname who partnered with Sherburne Cook. An Idaho senator with this surname led the "irreconcilables" faction in the Senate in opposing the League of Nations.

[B10] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this novel considered calling it Death and Variations, because each character dies in a manner consistent with their personality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this novel in which Margaret Hale moves from rural Helstone to the impoverished town of Darkshire. She eventually marries John Thornton, who shuts down his cotton mill due to a strike.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    North and South was written by this Victorian novelist of Wives and Daughters and Cranford.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary):
    Gaskell wrote about Jem Wilson's love for a title character with this first name and last name Barton. The first part of Cranford is narrated by a title character with this first name, the same as the author of Frankenstein.

[B11] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: Wootton Bassett was the most recent town in Britain to be granted a royal prefix. For 10 points each name:
  Part 1 (ans: Royal Tunbridge Wells):
    This Kentish town was granted its prefix by Edward VII, and it is infamous for being the home of the fictional letter-writer "Disgusted".
  Part 2 (ans: (North and South) Queensferry):
    This pair of Scottish villages sits in the shadow of the Forth Road and Rail Bridges, and were built to provide a service for pilgrims to St Andrews.
  Part 3 (ans: Lyme Regis):
    This town is known for its Ammonite Pavement, as well as appearances in literature such as The French Lieutenant's Woman and Persuasion.

[B12] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about some Middle Eastern events that happened in 1990, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait [in place of "invasion," accept: obvious equivalents]):
    In 1990, Saddam Hussein sent his army on this campaign, which successfully brought rich oil fields under Hussein's control. It was the major impetus for the Gulf War.
  Part 2 (ans: Lebanon [or:Lebanese Republic]):
    The war in this country ended in 1990 after the Ta'if Agreement went into effect. This country was the site of the Sabra and Shatila Massacres and is where the Islamic Jihad detonated truck bombs at a U.S. barracks in 1983.
  Part 3 (ans: the unification of North and South Yemen [or: obvious equivalents]):
    Tensions after this event mounted after a new oil field was established in the Hadhramaut Governorate. This event resulted in a coalition government under Ali Salim al-Beidh and Ali Abdullah Saleh.

[B13] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel is set in the industrial city of Milton, which is modeled after Manchester. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this novel whose protagonist, Margaret Hale, meets the Union leader Nicholas Higgins and eventually marries John Thornton, the owner of a cotton mill.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell [or Elizabeth Stevenson]):
    North and South was written by this woman who also wrote a biography of Charlotte Bronte. Her novels include Mary Barton and Cranford.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Dickens):
    Many of Gaskell's works were published in Household Words, a journal published by this creator of Ebenezer Scooge.

[B14] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel was adapted into a wildly popular 2004 BBC miniseries starring Daniela Denby-Ashe and Richard Armitage as Margaret Hale and John Thornton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this Victorian novel whose title locations signify the tensions between agrarian England and industrial England. It was written by Elizabeth Gaskell.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlotte Bronte [prompt on Bronte]):
    North and South is thematically similar to this author's novel Shirley. Mr. Rochester is the master of Thornfield Hall in her best-known novel, Jane Eyre.
  Part 3 (ans: Hard Times):
    The villainous Bounderby and Gradgrind appear in this industrial novel by Charles Dickens. It criticizes utilitarianism and schooling based on "facts."

[B15] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At a strike in this novel, the main female character steps out of a barricaded house to quell the rioters, while Higgins goes to work to support the family of his friend who killed himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: North and South):
    Name this novel in which Mr. Thornton eventually runs his mill in cooperation with his workers, which allows him to win the hand of Margaret Hale.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Gaskell):
    North and South was written by this author who created the spinster sisters Miss Matty and Miss Deborah in Cranford and also penned Mary Barton.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlotte Bronte [prompt on partial answer]):
    Gaskell is also known for a biographical work about this other author who wrote about a woman who dies with the name of her beloved Walter on her lips in her poem "Apostasy." She also penned the novel Villette.
