=== STOCK CLUES: David Lynch ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Absolute Cinema (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: David Lynch [or David Keith Lynch] (The characters mentioned are Dale Cooper from Twin Peaks and Frank Booth from Blue Velvet.)
  - This director filmed a single 13-minute shot of a head of cheese in front of power lines for a film that debuted at the Festival of Disruption. [PWR]
  - In a twenty-minute long film, this author of the book Catching the Big Fish recalls helping a European girl drink her first Coke and buying colored sugar water in the middle of nowhere in Yugoslavia. [PWR]
  - This director, who is the better known of the two co-creators of a character who often praises the merits of a "damn fine cup of (*) coffee," was once filmed cooking broccoli and quinoa. [PWR]
  - Every day at 2:30 pm for seven years, this director ordered a chocolate milkshake at Bob's Big Boy diner.
  - A fast food customer inspired this director to create a character who exclaims "Heineken?
  - Fuck that shit!
  - Pabst!
  - Blue!
  - Ribbon!" For 10 points, a creepy monster emerges from behind a diner in what director's film Mulholland Drive? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Answer: David Lynch
  - A 2019 Bonnefanten Museum retrospective on this artist displayed surrealist artworks such as Rock with Seven Eyes and Boy Lights Fire. [PWR]
  - This artist used a bottleneck to play slide guitar on an album he collaborated on with John Neff, BlueBOB. [PWR]
  - This artist narrates a story about seeing "frog-moths" rise out of the earth in a clip that shows him cooking quinoa. [PWR]
  - A David Foster Wallace essay titled "[this artist] Keeps His Head" discusses a scene in which a woman covers her entire face in (*) red lipstick.
  - After hiring Angelo Badalamenti as a singing coach for his wife Isabella Rossellini, this artist collaborated with him on a series that opens with the theme "Falling" by Julee Cruise.
  - A nightclub singer attempts to retrieve her son in a film by this artist that opens with the discovery of a severed ear in a field.
  - For 10 points, what multimedia artist directed the films Wild at Heart and Blue Velvet? [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: David Lynch [David Keith Lynch] [Clues are from The Elephant Man, Twin Peaks: Fire Walk with Me, Twin Peaks: The Return, Blue Velvet, and Twin Peaks, in that order.]
  - Before Oliver Stone's Platoon, this director used Barber's Adagio for Strings as a John Hurt character dies in his sleep, after which Tennyson's "Nothing Will Die" is recited.
  - In another film by this director, Cherubini's C minor Requiem plays as Leland kills his daughter in a train car, before wrapping her in plastic and throwing her in a river.
  - In a series by this director with a theme by Angelo Badalamenti, a depiction of the Trinity test is accompanied by Penderecki's Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima.
  - Isabella Rossellini performs the title song of a film by this director as nightclub singer Dorothy Vallens, who is tormented by the gas-huffing Frank Booth.
  - This director depicted the murder of Laura Palmer in a film subtitled "Fire Walk with Me." For 10 points, name this director of The Elephant Man, Blue Velvet, and Twin Peaks. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: David Lynch
  - In one of this director's films, Cherubini's Requiem in C Minor accompanies a murder in a train car, after which the killer gives up his garmonbozia.
  - One of his film's opening sequences ends with an extreme close-up of beetles warring in the grass.
  - In another of his films, the opening of a mysterious blue box causes most characters to shift identities.
  - He created a nightclub singer who is ritualistically raped as Jeffrey Beaumont watches from the closet, and he worked with Mark Frost on a popular television series.
  - For 10 points, name this American director of Mulholland Dr. and Blue Velvet who created Twin Peaks. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about French electronic composer Jean-Jacques Perrey ("peh-RAY"), for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Django Reinhardt [or Jean Reinhardt; prompt on Django] (The quintet is the Quintette du Hot Club de France.)):
    Perrey earned a roast hedgehog from this musician for backing him on the Ondioline. Stephane Grappelli played violin on the song "Minor Swing" as part of a quintet led by this musician, who overcame a burnt hand.
  Part 2 (ans: synthesizer [or Moog synthesizer]):
    The theme song of the Mexican sitcom El Chavo del Ocho is from a Perrey album whose punning title, "Moog ("mohg") Indigo," refers to a type of this electronic instrument that produces audio signals.
  Part 3 (ans: Angelo Badalamenti [or Angelo Daniel Badalamenti] (David Lynch wrote the lyrics for the Twin Peaks theme "Falling" and the rest of the songs on Cruise's album Floating Into the Night.)):
    This composer and Gershon Kingsley co-wrote Perrey's oft-sampled song "E.V.A." This composer scored films like Wild at Heart for a director who used his song "Falling," which was sung by Julee Cruise, as the theme for a TV series.

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: The director of this film allegedly shipped trees from overseas for a scene in which the main characters graduate from Harvard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heaven's Gate):
    Name this expensive "anti-Western" flop by Michael Cimino about Sheriff Jim Averil's fight against Wyoming cattle owners.
  Part 2 (ans: David Lynch [David Keith Lynch]):
    During the production of Heaven's Gate, actor John Hurt went off to make The Elephant Man, a film by this director of Blue Velvet and Twin Peaks.
  Part 3 (ans: Jeff Bridges [Jeffrey Leon Bridges]):
    This actor plays a minor role as a businessman in Heaven's Gate. In another film, he plays a White Russian-loving slacker who bowls with friends Walter and Donny.

[B3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A film with this structural conceit ends with different women reading from Robert Grosseteste's On Light at the rate of a word per second over a wide shot of a snowy landscape. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the alphabet [accept the Latin alphabet or English alphabet]):
    Name this system that provides a repetitive structure for Hollis Frampton's film Zorns Lemma. In Semiotics of the Kitchen, Martha Rosler holds up cooking implements that correspond to this system.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Greenaway):
    This director's wife Saskia Boddeke shot a documentary in which he and his daughter Zoe use the alphabet to structure their conversations. He directed The Cook, the Thief, His Wife & Her Lover.
  Part 3 (ans: David Lynch [or David Keith Lynch]):
    A girl with a mask-like face sings the ABC song before coughing up blood on her bed in The Alphabet, a short film by this director of Lost Highway and Blue Velvet.

[B4] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: This character runs into trouble with casino owners after hitting over 29 mega-jackpots by looking at a slot machine and yelling "Hello-o-o," earning him the nickname "Mr. Jackpots" from an old lady. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dougie Jones [generously prompt on Agent Dale Cooper for now]):
    Name this character, a "tulpa" of a character who had earlier become trapped in the Black Lodge.
  Part 2 (ans: David Lynch [or David Keith Lynch]):
    Dougie is played by Kyle MacLachlan and created by this director. MacLachlan has starred in this director's Dune, Blue Velvet, and Twin Peaks.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Sellers [or Richard Henry Sellars]):
    MacLachlan said his inspiration for the largely non-verbal Dougie was this actor's performance in Being There. This actor played Inspector Clouseau in the Pink Panther TV show and the title character of Dr. Stranglove.

[B5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film opens with an image of two components of a movie projector's lamp turning on. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Persona):
    Name this Swedish film depicting the relationship between Alma and Elizabet Vogler, whose faces are shown merged into one in an iconic shot.
  Part 2 (ans: David Lynch):
    This director paid tribute to the doubling theme of Persona in his own film Mulholland Drive, which stars Naomi Watts and Laura Harring. This director also created the series Twin Peaks with Mark Frost.
  Part 3 (ans: The Double Life of Veronique [or La Double Vie de Veronique; or Podwojne zycie Weroniki]):
    Two women with seemingly unconnected lives, a singer in Poland and a music teacher in France, are both played by Irene Jacob in this 1991 film by Krzysztof Kieslowski.

[B6] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: After the peak of his fame in the 1960s, this actor saw a career resurgence in the 1980s and 1990s as he was typecast in psychotic antagonist roles. For ten points:
  Part 1 (ans: Dennis Hopper):
    Name this actor, who found renewed success playing Bowser in 1993's Super Mario Bros., and Howard Payne in Speed. He is also well-known for his less villainous role as Shooter Flatch in Hoosiers.
  Part 2 (ans: David Lynch):
    Hopper received renewed attention for his role in the film Blue Velvet by this director known for his surrealist, abstract plotlines. Other noteworthy works by this director include Eraserhead and the 1984 adaptation of Dune.
  Part 3 (ans: Easy Rider):
    Hopper was also known for his directorial work, with his biggest hit being this 1969 movie that he co-wrote with Peter Fonda and co-starred in with Fonda and Jack Nicholson.

[B7] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Creepy stop motion-animated creatures made of animal bones appear in a film adaptation of Alice in Wonderland from this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czechoslovakia [or Czechia or the Czech Republic or Ceska republika; or Ceskoslovensko; accept Czechoslovak New Wave or Czech New Wave] (Alice was directed by Jan Svankmajer; Daisies was directed by Vera Chytilova)):
    Name this country where a film about girls called Marie I and Marie II, Daisies, was shot during its "New Wave." The director of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest and Amadeus, Milos Forman, was from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacques Rivette):
    This French director referenced Alice in Wonderland with a scene in which one of the title women follows the other around Paris, attempting to return items that the latter has dropped, in his film Celine and Julie Go Boating.
  Part 3 (ans: David Lynch [or David Keith Lynch]):
    Theories often connect Alice in Wonderland to the work of this American director, who included the fake sitcom Rabbits in the film Lost Empire and mentioned a "cottontail rabbit" in the first episode of Twin Peaks.

[B8] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the influence of Rita Hayworth on films, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Bicycle Thieves [or The Bicycle Thief; or Ladri di Biciclette]):
    In this Italian neorealist film by Vittorio De Sica, Maria sells her linens so that her husband Antonio can purchase the title object for a job putting up posters of Rita Hayworth.
  Part 2 (ans: Orson Welles):
    Rita Hayworth was married to this actor and director whom she appeared with in the film The Lady from Shanghai. This actor utters the word "Rosebud" and drops a snowglobe in the opening scene of his film Citizen Kane.
  Part 3 (ans: David Lynch (The films are Mulholland Drive and The Elephant Man.)):
    In a film by this director, a woman believing herself to be Rita Hayworth discovers the body of Diane Selwyn. John Hurt spent eight hours a day attaching prosthetics to portray Joseph Merrick in a 1980 film by this director.

[B9] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: David Foster Wallace once observed this man peeing under a tree, which was apparently treated as a normal occurrence on his sets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Lynch):
    Name this director of Mulholland Drive and Twin Peaks.
  Part 2 (ans: Blue Velvet):
    This Lynch film famously begins with a shot of a severed ear covered in ants. Jeffrey shoots the Yellow Man in this film, which was criticized for its sexual violence towards the character Dorothy.
  Part 3 (ans: Eraserhead):
    This early Lynch film begins with a giant floating sperm emerging from the main character's mouth and involves Henry Spencer and Mary X trying to take care of and then kill a horrifying skinless baby.

[B10] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: Answer the following about doubles and doppelgangers in cinema, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: David Lynch):
    The waitress Diane Selwyn turns out to resemble aspiring actress Betty Elms in this director's non-linear mystery Mulholland Drive. Other surrealistic, disturbing films by this man include Inland Empire and Blue Velvet.
  Part 2 (ans: Persona):
    A split screen shot of the nurse Alma and the mute actress Elisabet, suggesting the merging of their identities, concludes this Ingmar Bergman film, which opens with shots of projectors lighting up images like a crucifixion and a tarantula.
  Part 3 (ans: Krzysztof Kieslowski (k-SHISH-toff kyeh-SHLOFF-ski)):
    A 1991 film by this director examines the parallel lives of a Polish soprano and a French music teacher, both named Veronique. This Polish director produced the Three Colors trilogy, comprising films titled Red,White, and Blue.

[B11] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some directors based on clues about their partnerships with film composers, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Krzysztof Kieslowski):
    The fictional composer Van den Budenmayer was created by the composer Zbigniew Preisner and this Polish director who he frequently works with. His works include The Decalogue and the Three Colors trilogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Steven Spielberg):
    John Williams has composed the music for nearly all of the films of this director of Schindler's List and Jurassic Park.
  Part 3 (ans: David Lynch):
    Angelo Badalamenti was hired as Isabella Rossellini's singing coach for this man's movie Blue Velvet, beginning a longtime partnership. They also collaborated on Mulholland Drive.
