=== STOCK CLUES: Olana ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ARCHIVE (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Valerie Solanas
  - BBC researcher Mary Harron wrote how a text by this thinker helped Harron "[reach] a core of anger I didn't know I possessed" and adapted her life story into a 1996 film starring Lili Taylor and Jared Harris. [PWR]
  - Sara Stridsberg wrote a novel about this woman, who herself wrote a book published with an unauthorized introduction by her publisher Maurice Girodias of Olympia Press while she was in the (+) Elmhurst Psychiatric Hospital. [PWR]
  - In that text, this author predicts a future of three-hour workweeks, free subway rides, and the decline of a class of people she calls "emotional cripples." This author of the play Up Your Ass got a role in the film I, a Man thanks to an introduction from (*) Candy Darling. [PWR]
  - In her best-known text, this woman attacked "approval-seeking Daddy's Girls," contrasting them with "thrill-seeking, free-wheeling, arrogant females." Mario Amaya was injured in an incident carried out by this woman at The Factory in 1968.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the SCUM Manifesto best-known for shooting Andy Warhol. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 FINE AARTS (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Valerie Solanas
  - White Cat and Spade Cat join the protagonist of a play by this author in attempting to seduce women on the street. [PWR]
  - That play, the only one by this author, features a scene in which two drag queens talk about wanting to be lesbian women. [PWR]
  - Miss Collins chases Scheherazade with a handbag after an insult in that play. [PWR]
  - This author advocated for the "total elimination of the (*) money-work system" in a book first commercially published in the Olympia Press.
  - The idea that the title of that book featured an acronym was objected to by this artist.
  - This author followed Bongi Perez in Up Your Ass, a screenplay that was supposedly misplaced by the artist she asked to publish it.
  - For 10 points, name this author who suggested eradicating men in her SCUM Manifesto, published a year before she shot Andy Warhol. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: An initiative called "La Gran [this country]" upgraded Romulo Betancourt's CVP into the state-owned PDVSA, which oversaw an oil industry that was reopened during "La Apertura" ("lah ah-pair-TOO-rah"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Venezuela [or Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela or Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela; accept La Gran Venezuela; accept Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A. or Corporacion Venezolana del Petroleo]):
    Name this country whose oil industry was nationalized after a 1976 ceremony at Zumaque 1 ("soo-MAH-kay uno"). This country joined Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait as a founding member of OPEC ("OH-peck") in 1960.
  Part 2 (ans: Carlos Andres Perez ("CAR-loce on-DRESS PAY-ress") [or Carlos Andres Perez Rodriguez; accept CAP; prompt on Rodriguez]):
    During his first term, this Democratic Action president nationalized Venezuelan iron and petroleum and created the "Great Marshall of Ayacucho" scholarship. Ten years later, the Caracazo ("kah-rah-KAH-soh") protested this president's "Economic Package."
  Part 3 (ans: Hugo Chavez ("OO-go CHAH-vess") [or Hugo Rafael Chavez Frias; accept Chavismo]):
    This later Venezuelan president, who led a failed 1992 coup against Perez, used oil revenue to fund leftist social programs called the Bolivarian missions. Nicolas Maduro ("nee-ko-LAHSS mah-THOO-roh") succeeded him in 2013.

[B2] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The Shaheed Minar commemorates the deaths of students protesting a 1952 speech in which Khwaja Nazimuddin rejected state recognition of this language. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bengali [or Bangla; accept Bengali Language Movement or Bhasa Andolana]):
    Name this namesake language of a movement that used the writings of Rabindranath Tagore to oppose the official imposition of Urdu in East Pakistan.
  Part 2 (ans: Sheikh Mujibur Rahman [accept Bangabandhu; prompt on Rahman]):
    The Bengali Language Movement influenced the Six Points expounded by this first president of Bangladesh.
  Part 3 (ans: Khan [accept Abdul Monem Khan or Yahya Khan]):
    The longest-serving governor of East Pakistan had this surname and banned Tagore's Bengali songs from public radio to enforce the primacy of Urdu. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto succeeded Yahya, a Pakistani president with this surname, after the Bangladesh Liberation War.

[B3] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Joseph II and Frederick the Great's troops both dug this crop up with bayonets to survive winter in the War of the Bavarian Succession. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: potatoes [or Solanum tuberosum; prompt on Solanum or Solanaceae; accept potato blight; accept Irish Potato Famine or Highland Potato Famine; accept Potato War or Kartoffelkrieg; accept specific potato varieties but do not accept or prompt on "sweet potatoes" or "yams" or "ube"]):
    Name this crop that may have reached Europe from the Andes, via Colombia. Antoine-Augustin Parmentier extolled this crop, which suffered Phytophthora blights that caused famines in the Scottish Highlands and Ireland.
  Part 2 (ans: Chile [or Republic of Chile; or Republica de Chile; accept Araucania; accept Captaincy General of Chile or Capitania General de Chile] (The islands were the Governorate of Chiloe.)):
    European potatoes may also originate from an island governorate of this former Spanish colony. Amedee-Francois Frezier introduced Europe to the giant strawberries grown by this country's cattle-raiding Mapuche people.
  Part 3 (ans: Muscovy [accept Muscovy duck or Cairina moschata; accept Muscovy Company; accept Moscow or Grand Duchy of Moscow or Muscovite Russia; prompt on Russia or Rus'; prompt on Company of Merchant Adventurers to New Lands]):
    Moche pots north of Chile depicted domestic ducks that Europeans named for this historical region. Richard Chancellor, Sebastian Cabot, and Hugh Willoughby formed an early joint-stock company named for this region.

[B4] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Leadin: Like the editors of this tournament, concrete can be prestressed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: compressive [accept word forms]):
    Prestressed concrete is used because, while the structure as a whole is under tensile stress, the concrete itself is under this type of stress. The bulk modulus measures resistance to deformation under this type of stress, and is very high for concrete.
  Part 2 (ans: freeze-thaw [prompt on anything mentioning ice or frost]):
    While it decreases the compressive strength of concrete, air entrainment makes concrete more durable, especially to this form of physical weathering, because the presence of small air pockets allows the concrete to absorb the stress from the expansion that water undergoes when it cools.
  Part 3 (ans: pozzolans [accept pozzolanic or Pozzolana]):
    Adding these minerals to concrete improves both its compressive strength and durability. As a very fine powder, these siliceous or aluminous minerals react with water to give compounds with cementitious properties. The Romans acquired volcanic pumices and tuffs to use as these materials from a namesake place.

[B5] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Films by this man played during the Exploding Plastic Inevitable shows he organized. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andy Warhol [or Andrew Warhola]):
    Name this artist who designated such people as Nico, International Velvet, and Paul America his namesake "superstars." His "superstars" appeared in films he created with Paul Morrissey, including Chelsea Girls and Lonesome Cowboys.
  Part 2 (ans: fifteen minutes [prompt on partial]):
    Warhol's practice of instantly creating "superstars" by filming them on a whim exemplified his dictum that "in the future, everyone will be world-famous for" this length of time.
  Part 3 (ans: Valerie Solanas):
    Mary Hallon's directorial debut concerned the assassination attempt on Warhol perpetrated by this woman, who also wrote the SCUM Manifesto. As a result of her actions, Warhol became "cardboard" and soon stopped making his "superstar" films.

[B6] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This group's actions included carrying trash from the East Village to the Lincoln Center fountain during a garbage strike and firing blanks at poet Kenneth Koch in a faux assassination. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers [or UAW/MF; accept "the Motherfuckers"]):
    Name this late-1960s New York City anarchist collective led by the painter Ben Morea. They took their rather explicit name from a phrase in the Amiri Baraka poem "Black People."
  Part 2 (ans: Valerie Solanas [or Valerie Jean Solanas]):
    Morea was one of few to publicly defend the assassination attempt on Andy Warhol by this woman, who lamented that "no aspect of society" was "at all relevant to women" in the opening of her "SCUM Manifesto."
  Part 3 (ans: Woodstock Festival [or the Woodstock Music & Art Fair]):
    Members of UAW/MF were also responsible for cutting open fences and allowing thousands of people into this event held at Max Yasgur's farm in 1969, which closed with a performance by Jimi Hendrix.

[B7] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This document opens by condemning the male as an incomplete female due to his degenerate Y chromosome, and it criticizes Daddy's Girls for boosting Daddy's ego. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: SCUM Manifesto [or Society for Cutting Up Men Manifesto]):
    Name this radical feminist document from 1967, which advocates overthrowing the government, destroying the money system, and killing men except for those inducted into the Men's Auxiliary through Turd Sessions.
  Part 2 (ans: Valerie Jean Solanas):
    This author of the SCUM Manifesto shot Andy Warhol and Mario Anaya after Warhol allegedly lost her play Up Your Ass.
  Part 3 (ans: Betty Friedan):
    The SCUM Manifesto was criticized by more moderate feminists, including this first president of the National Organization of Women whose most influential book confronts "the problem that has no name."

[B8] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This woman was enraged when a putative producer lost the only copy of her play Up Your Ass and offered her only a twenty-five dollar job as an actress in the film I, A Man as compensation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Valerie Solanas):
    Name this University of Maryland psychology student, who borrowed fifty dollars from Paul Krassner to buy a gun which she used to commit a failed murder attempt in June 1968.
  Part 2 (ans: Andy Warhol):
    Solanas achieved notoriety for shooting this pop artist at The Factory.
  Part 3 (ans: SCUM [allegedly stands for the Society for Cutting Up Men according to some people, so accept that]):
    Solanas explained her actions in the "manifesto" of this acronym-named organization, which suggests that women should "overthrow the government, eliminate the money system, institute complete automation and eliminate the male sex."
