=== STOCK CLUES: Black Mountain College ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 9 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Black Mountain College [or BMC; accept Black Mountain, North Carolina; prompt on North Carolina or NC until "North Carolina" is read]
  - Mary Emma Harris described how a structure created at this place was called "Supine" after the Venetian blinds used for it collapsed.
  - While at this place, Alex Reed collaborated on "anti-jewelry" from materials like metal washers found at hardware stores.
  - Matiere  exercises at this place led to a series of leaf studies, while Pre-Columbian ruins inspired an artist to paint the Variant/Adobe series here.
  - For a performance at this place, M.
  - C.
  - Richards translated The Ruse of Medusa by Erik Satie.
  - After watching basket makers in Toluca, looped-wire hangings were created at this place by Ruth Asawa.
  - This school was the site of Theater Piece No. 1, a happening by John Cage, and was where its founder created studies for his series Homage to the Square.
  - For 10 points, Josef and Anni Albers founded what experimental liberal arts college in North Carolina? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In her series For Anna, Meghann Riepenhoff collaged algae onto pictures of algae in a reference to Anna Atkins' pioneering work using this technique to photograph algae. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: photogram [accept cyanotype; accept cameraless photography; accept rayographs; accept Schadographs]):
    Name this technique, often used in botanical photography, in which objects are placed directly onto photographic paper and exposed to light.
  Part 2 (ans: Dada [or Dadaism]):
    It's not New Objectivity, but a member of this movement, Christian Schad ("shahd"), created photograms he called Schadographs. A member of this movement, Man Ray, also created photograms named for himself, "rayographs."
  Part 3 (ans: Black Mountain College):
    Susan Weil introduced her future husband Robert Rauschenberg to photograms while at this North Carolina college, where Josef Albers taught a Werklehre ("VAIRK-lair-uh") class emphasizing a "fingertip touch for materials."

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet was a major influence for authors of the British Poetry Revival in the '60s and '70s, a loosely defined movement of modernist poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Basil Bunting [or Basil Cheesman Bunting]):
    Name this poet who used the line "Brag, sweet tenor bull" to begin his long poem Briggflatts.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    The British Poetry Revival is often seen as a reaction to The Movement, a group of anti-modernist authors that includes this British poet of The Whitsun Weddings and "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: Black Mountain poets [accept Black Mountain College]):
    The British Poetry Revival was also influenced by the poetry of Charles Olson, a pioneer of "projective verse" who was part of this group of poets. Robert Creeley is associated with this group centered at a North Carolina college.

[B3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Donald Allen grouped Robert Duncan, Madeline Gleason, and Jack Spicer under this city's poetic "Renaissance" in the anthology The New American Poetry 1945-1960. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: San Francisco [or San Francisco Renaissance]):
    Name this city whose "Renaissance" was "fathered" by Kenneth Rexroth, who invited Robert Creeley to this city. Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac frequented the City Lights Bookstore in this California city.
  Part 2 (ans: Black Mountain College):
    Duncan and Creeley taught at this college, whose other poets included Denise Levertov and "projective verse" advocate Charles Olson.
  Part 3 (ans: H.D. [or Hilda Doolittle; or H.D. Imagiste]):
    Both Duncan and Creeley were open about the influence of this bisexual Imagist poet of Helen in Egypt. This poet asked the sea to "cover us with your pools of fir" in "Oread."

[B4] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist created Six Prayers to memorialize the Jewish victims of the Holocaust. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anni Albers [prompt on just Albers]):
    Name this artist who, in 1949, became the first textile designer to have a solo exhibition at the MoMA. This author of On Designing and On Weaving was featured in a massive 2018 retrospective by the Tate Modern.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Peru [or Republica del Peru]):
    Albers dedicated On Weaving to "my great teachers, the weavers of ancient [this country]." In this modern country ponchos and chullo hats are traditionally made of alpaca fibers.
  Part 3 (ans: Black Mountain College):
    Before writing On Weaving, Albers taught at this experimental college, which her husband Josef ran for a decade. Merce Cunningham founded his dance company this school, which was located in North Carolina.

[B5] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay includes declarations written in all-caps such as "FORM IS NEVER MORE THAN AN EXTENSION OF CONTENT" and "ONE PERCEPTION MUST IMMEDIATELY AND DIRECTLY LEAD TO A FURTHER PERCEPTION." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Projective Verse"):
    Identify this 1950 essay that attempts to define its namesake "open" type of poetry, which is produced via "composition by field."
  Part 2 (ans: Black Mountain College):
    Charles Olson, who wrote "Projective Verse," and other poets of the projective movement, such as Robert Creeley, are often grouped in a literary movement named for this North Carolina college where many of them studied or taught.
  Part 3 (ans: William Carlos Williams):
    "Projective Verse" was so important to this fellow poet that he quoted vast sections of it in his autobiography. This author of In the American Grain also wrote the poem "To Elsie," which begins "the pure products of America / go crazy."

[B6] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Tom Wolfe mockingly described how this man would give his students pieces of newspaper to create art, leave the room for an hour, only to come back to praise a simple tent over Gothic castles for using "the soul of paper." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josef Albers):
    Name this artist who wrote a textbook on color while at Yale in 1963. During that time, this artist created a series of geometric white on black wireframe engravings known as Structural Constellations.
  Part 2 (ans: the Bauhaus [or Staatliches Bauhaus] (The Wolfe book is called From Bauhaus to Our House.)):
    Albers led the aforementioned paper exercise while teaching the introductory Vorkurs ("FORE-koorss") at this German art school founded by Walter Gropius. He also met his wife, the textile artist Anni Albers, in this institution's glass workshop.
  Part 3 (ans: Black Mountain College):
    After the Nazis shut down the Bauhaus in 1933, Philip Johnson got Josef and Anni Albers positions in the painting program of this school. Throughout their time at this North Carolina art school, they repeatedly took trips to Mexico to study pre-Columbian art, inspiring Albers's series Homage to the Square.

[B7] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This institution, founded in 1933 in North Carolina, attracted artists such as Walter Gropius and Willem de Kooning. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Black Mountain College):
    Name this short-lived art institution, which was known for its integration of art into everyday life and its many experimental and interdisciplinary studies.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Rauschenberg):
    Among the many luminaries who were students at Black Mountain College was this artist, who is best known for artworks in which objects are placed directly onto the canvas, his combines.
  Part 3 (ans: John Cage):
    A faculty member of Black Mountain College was this avant-garde composer of Imaginary Landscapes and 4'33',' in which a performer sits at a piano but plays no notes.
