=== STOCK CLUES: Jacob Riis ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 8 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jacob Riis ("reese") [or Jacob August Riis; accept Rediscovering Jacob Riis]
  - This artist photographed twin boys next to a sign reading "Please Keep Off the Grass." Bonnie Yochelson chronicled this photographer's amateur assistants in a 2007 book titled "Rediscovering [him]." This photographer accidentally lit himself on fire with magnesium powder while pioneering indoor flash photography.
  - This artist often photographed "growler gangs" of boys that he dubbed "Street Arabs." This photographer frequently titled photos for their costs in cents, such as one of a man sleeping on a mattress on top of two barrels.
  - Clotheslines in this artist's photos of Bandit's Roost and other Mulberry Street locations represent the "poverty line." For 10 points, name this Danish American artist who photographed tenements for his collection How the Other Half Lives. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jacob Riis
  - This artist depicted numerous bowler hatted men sitting under a pier in a work titled "The Short Tail Gang." This artist wrote a very short children's book titled Is There a Santa Claus?
  - In one work of art by this man, at least ten threatening looking toughs stare at the viewer while standing in a back alley at 59 ½ Mulberry Street.
  - Another of his artworks, subtitled "Five Cents a Spot," is set at Bayard Street and shows lodgers crammed into a dirty bedroom.
  - This artist created works like "Bandit's Roost" using a magnesium flash.
  - His best known work is subtitled "studies among the tenements of New York." For 10 points, name this photographer and journalist who wrote How the Other Half Lives. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer often captured gangs of adolescent boys that he called "Street Arabs." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Riis [or Jacob August Riis]):
    Name this photographer whose images of slums like Bandit's Roost frequently use a clothesline as a symbol for the poverty line. Many of those images are collected in a book by this photographer subtitled "studies among the tenements of New York."
  Part 2 (ans: flash photography):
    Riis once accidentally lit himself on fire while igniting the magnesium powder to produce this effect to illuminate the dark indoor spaces he often worked in.
  Part 3 (ans: Nan Goldin):
    Striking indoor flash photographs by this artist frequently depicted New York's queer no-wave subcultures. A 2022 documentary about this photographer showcases her activism against the Sackler family.

[B2] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | History
     Leadin: The unappetizing Raines sandwich -"two pieces of bread with a brick between" - was developed to skirt an 1896 law in this state which restricted liquor sales. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York):
    Identify this state. During the Progressive Era, Mayor William L. Strong combated police corruption in a city in this state.
  Part 2 (ans: Sunday):
    New York's Raines Law closed the "golden hour" loophole that allowed for saloons to sell alcohol on this day. Blue laws forced businesses to close on this day of the week out of respect for the Sabbath.
  Part 3 (ans: Jacob Riis [or Jacob August Riis]):
    The Raines sandwich was publicized by this social reformer whose pictures of tenement slums in How the Other Half Lives attracted the interest of Theodore Roosevelt.

[B3] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some things regarding New York City's impact on the development of photography, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Central Park):
    Diane Arbus, known as the "Sylvia Plath of Photography," captured a Child with Toy Hand Grenade in this New York City location. This location also contains the Bethesda Fountain.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Riis [Accept Jacob August Riis]):
    This Danish-American pioneer of photojournalism captured many pictures of the New York slums, including one at 59 ½ Mulberry Street, known as Bandit's Roost. He collected them in his most famous work, How the Other Half Lives.
  Part 3 (ans: The Flatiron Building):
    Edward Steichen took an eerie, green tinged photograph of this New York building in 1904. This wedge-shaped early skyscraper is found at 175 Fifth Avenue.

[B4] 2017 Delta Burke (2017) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: McClure's Magazine patronized many of the writers described by this epithet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: muckrakers):
    Teddy Roosevelt provided what term for journalists who exposed the predations of large corporations around the turn of the 20th century?
  Part 2 (ans: Standard Oil):
    McClure's serialized Ida Tarbell's articles about this huge company, including the fact that they had fixed railroad prices, which helped lead to its break-up by the Supreme Court in 1911.
  Part 3 (ans: Jacob Riis [reese]):
    This Danish immigrant captured the squalor of tenement life in New York in his photo-book How the Other Half Lives.

[B5] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: New York City is the setting for many famous photographs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Riis):
    This man took pictures of such locations as The Bandit's Roost and Gotham Court in his exploration of the living conditions in tenements in the late 1880s.
  Part 2 (ans: Diane Arbus):
    While this artist's portrait of two identical twin girls next to each other was taken in New Jersey, her most famous photograph, which shows a boy with one of his suspenders undone, was taken in Central Park.
  Part 3 (ans: golf club):
    A man on a New York construction beam winds up with one of these objects while a boy looks on in one photograph. Another photograph, showing Alan Shepherd holding one of these objects, was actually of a makeshift one composed of just the head attached to a contingency sampler, and was taken 239,000 miles from New York.
