=== STOCK CLUES: Victor Hugo ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 45 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 22 found, 65 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo
  - An essay by this author calls the stage an "optical point" on which all of humanity should be reflected by the "wand of art" and calls for drama that allows "grotesque...with the sublime" as done by Shakespeare. [PWR]
  - An assassination plot is hatched at the Three Cranes Tavern in this author's first play, which was never staged during his life, since it has over 400 pages in iambic pentameter spoken by 77 characters. [PWR]
  - The premier of this author's play about Charles V and two other Spaniards in love with Dona Sol occasioned a huge (*) fistfight between literary radicals and conservatives.
  - This author, who rejected Racine's  loyalty to the three classical unities and defended Romanticism in the preface to his play Cromwell, also wrote a novel in which the fisherman Gilliatt  seeks to rescue a ship from the ocean in Guernsey .
  - For 10 points, name this French author of Hernani  and The Toilers of the Sea. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo [or Victor-Marie Hugo]
  - The speaker of a poem by this author says he will walk "alone, unknown, my back curved, my hands crossed, / Sorrowed, and the day for me will be like the night." A phrase from Virgil's Eclogues titles Pauca Meae, the fourth of six books in a collection by this poet divided into the sections "once" and "today." A poem by this author, whose speaker resolves to "place on your tomb / A bouquet of green holly and flowering heather," is written in (*) alexandrins ternaires . [PWR]
  - This author's collection Les Contemplations includes the poem "Tomorrow, At Dawn," which mourns the drowning of his daughter Leopoldine.
  - In a novel by this author, a jilted factory worker is dismissed and forced to sell her hair and teeth to support her daughter.
  - For 10 points, what author wrote about Fantine and Cosette in Les Miserables? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire] (Bataille directly quotes Jean-Paul Sartre's analysis of Baudelaire in his book Literature and Evil. Walter Benjamin contrasts Baudelaire with his contemporary Victor Hugo.)
  - A different author's quotations of this writer's letter to his legal advisor are weighed by Georges Bataille in the second chapter of a book that opens, "Literature is not innocent." This author is claimed to have "sundered himself from [the crowd] as a hero," unlike his contemporary, in an essay from a different author's Arcades Project. [PWR]
  - An essay by this author praises watercolor artist Constantin Guys ["GHEES"] as an "eternal convalescent" who resembles the narrator of (*) Edgar Allan Poe's "The Man in the Crowd." Walter Benjamin's essays on this author of "The Painter of Modern Life" expound on his idea of the flaneur. [PWR]
  - This man appended his most famous collection with Tableaux Parisiens during Paris' renovation.
  - For 10 points, name this Symbolist poet who addressed a "hypocrite reader" in Les Fleurs du Mal. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo [or Victor-Marie Hugo] (Who, as luck would have it, is not the namesake of a prestigious science fiction award.)
  - A flower asks the question "What do you make of those who fall / In your ever-open abyss?" in a work by this poet framed as a conversation between a grave and a rose.
  - In one work by this poet, the speaker notes "I know you are waiting for me" before endeavoring on a journey "through the forest" and "across mountains."In that poem, the speaker laments "The day for me will be as the night" before leaving "a bouquet of green holly and heather in bloom." The speaker implores God to "Let me cry!" and "let the tears fall from my eyelid" in a poem named for the city where this poet's (*) daughter drowned in the Seine River. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, the poems "Tomorrow at dawn" and "In Villequier" mourn the death of Leopoldine, the daughter of what French Romantic author? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo [or Victor Marie Hugo]
  - In a play by this author, an indentured servant is disguised as a nobleman for a practical joke, but is then appointed prime minister and becomes the Queen's lover.
  - This author of Ruy Blas wrote a play in which Don Ruy Gomez, Don Carlos, and John of Aragon, who is disguised as the title bandit, all love Dona Sol.
  - Riots between supporters of classicism and Romanticism at performances of a play by this author are sometimes called the "battle of Hernani." In a novel by this author, a man who becomes a factory owner under the false name Monsieur Madeleine was earlier given two candlesticks by Bishop Myriel after stealing Myriel's silverware.
  - That character created by this author carries Marius through the sewers during a revolution and is pursued by Inspector Javert.
  - For 10 points, name this author who created Jean Valjean in Les Miserables. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo
  - This author used the staccato lines "walls, town, port, refuge, from death" to open a poem in which the title beings attack his house.
  - That poem appears in an "impractical book of pure poetry" in support of Greek Independence, Orientales.
  - This author forgot where bonsai is from in a passage that introduces a group that "worked on man as the Chinese worked on trees." In a novel by this author, the (*) narrator is captured by the maroon general Biassou after the Haitian Revolution starts during his wedding, but is saved and reunited with his wife by the title slave leader. [PWR]
  - This author, who coined the term "Comprachico," told the abolitionist Victor Schoelcher "God offers Africa to Europe.
  - Take it." This author of (*) Bug-Jargal included "Algeria too harshly conquered" among political grievances in an interlude set in 1830 that begins "revolutions have a terrible arm and a happy hand." One of this author's title characters travels with the carnival vendor Ursus and the wolf Homo.
  - For 10 points name this author, who satirized the reign of Louis-Philippe in The Man Who Laughs. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: green [accept Lorenzo Greene or Victor Hugo Green or Greenwood or Green Mountain Boys]
  - A student of Carter Woodson of this surname pioneered the study of African-American laborers in The Wage Earner. [PWR]
  - A former New York city mail carrier of this surname compiled a list of boarding houses and hotels, partly distributed through Esso gas stations, in his namesake (*) motorist's book for African-American travelers. [PWR]
  - With "wood," this was the name of Tulsa's African-American financial district.
  - For 10 points, African-American Sipp Ives served in Ethan Allen's "Mountain Boys" regiment of what name? [GIVE]

[T8] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo
  - This author described the fictional Marquis de Lantenac's revolt against the Republic during the Chouannerie in his last novel Ninety-Three. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author rescues Ebenezer Caudray from a rock, which he later resigns himself to drown on after learning of Caudray's interest in his lover. [PWR]
  - This author's anti-guillotine stance compelled him to write the short novel The Last Day of a Condemned Man.
  - In one of this author's novels, Sieur Clubin attempts to abscond with his employer's lost money and drowns when he is attacked by a large octopus, which later has its eyes gouged out by the lover of Deruchette, the Guernseyman (*) Gilliat.
  - A character created by this author is loved by the poet Pierre Gringoire and is hanged after taking the fall for the attempted murder of Captain Phoebus, who was actually stabbed by the villainous Claude Frollo.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Toilers of the Sea and The Hunchback of Notre Dame. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo [or Victor Marie Hugo]
  - A novel by this author ends with the protagonist sitting in the Gild-Holm-'Ur seat, watching the Cashmere disappear into the distance carrying the newly-married Ebenezer Caudry and Deruchette. [PWR]
  - That novel by this man popularized the term "pieuvre" with its exciting depiction of an underwater battle between the Guernseyman Gilliat and an octopus. [PWR]
  - Another of this man's characters moons over a lost love during his daily visits to the Field of the (*) Lark, and in other episodes foils a robbery at Gorbeau House staged by the Patron-Minette and a disguised Thenardier and hangs out with the Friends of the ABC.
  - This author of Toilers of the Sea created Marius Pontmercy in a novel whose protagonist adopts Cosette while fleeing from Inspector Javert.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of Les Miserables. [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Victor Hugo
  - This author wrote about a merchant who offers the hand of his daughter Deruchette to anyone who can recover the steam engine of the Durande in a novel that he dedicated to the island of Guernsey, where he was exiled for 15 years.
  - This author of Ruy Blas and Toilers of the Sea wrote a novel in which Enjolras leads the "Friends of the ABC," whose member Marius Pontmercy marries the illegitimate daughter of Fantine named Cosette.
  - For 10 points, name this Frenchman who wrote about Javert's search for Jean Valjean in Les Miserables. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker boasts of "inventing colors for" these entities in the "Alchemy of the Word" section of A Season in Hell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: vowels [prompt on sounds or letters]):
    Arthur Rimbaud wrote a sonnet assigning the colors black, white, red, green, and blue to what entities?
  Part 2 (ans: "Correspondences" [or "Correspondances"]):
    This Charles Baudelaire sonnet, which evokes "perfumes... sweet as oboes," introduced the device of synesthesia into French poetry. "Man passes there through forests of symbols" in this poem, which opens by comparing Nature to a temple.
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo [or Victor-Marie Hugo]):
    Decades earlier, this writer mused on the letter A's resemblance to the color white in his "Note on the Color of the Vowels." "Tomorrow, at Dawn" is a poem by this author better known for novels like The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author expounded on the idea of the grotesque and the principles of Romanticism in the preface to his almost-unperformable play Cromwell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo [or Victor-Marie Hugo]):
    Name this author who inspired a "Battle" named between Romantic and Classic drama with his play Hernani.
  Part 2 (ans: Les Miserables):
    In this novel by Hugo, Monsieur Gillenormand complains about people watching performances of Hernani. The Romantic Jean Prouvaire appears in this novel in which Inspector Javert pursues Jean Valjean.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexandre Dumas [or Alexandre Dumas, pere; reject "Alexandre Dumas, fils"] (The novel is The Count of Monte Cristo.)):
    This author preceded the debut of Hernani with his Romantic play Henry III and His Court. This author wrote a novel in which the title character is imprisoned in the Chateau d'If ("deef").

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A lengthy digression in one novel devoted to describing this event explains it with a capital letter placed over the ground in a chapter titled "A." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Waterloo [prompt on the Napoleonic Wars]):
    Name this event, after which a dying man attempts to give his valuables to a "night prowler." The protagonist of another novel, who kills a man during this event before later killing Giletti, becomes obsessed over the question of whether he participated in this event while returning home using fake passports.
  Part 2 (ans: The Charterhouse of Parma):
    The Contessa sends fake passports to assist her nephew in this novel. Priore Blanes compares the prison of Waterloo to the future imprisonment of this novel's protagonist, during which he falls in love with Clelia Conti.
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    This author and contemporary of Stendhal detailed the events of Waterloo and the death of Colonel Baron Pontmercy in the "Cosette" volume of his historical epic Les Miserables.

[B4] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: These conventions were introduced to France through Jean Mairet's (meh-ray's) translations of Gian Giorgio Trissino, who misleadingly claimed to have discovered them in Aristotle's Rhetoric. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the three unities [or the classical unities; or the Aristotelian unities]):
    Give the name of these baroque dramatic conventions regarding time, place, and action. The Academie Francaise criticized Pierre Corneille (cor-nay) for not sufficiently adhering to them in Le Cid.
  Part 2 (ans: Voltaire [or Francois-Marie Arouet]):
    This author considered Mairet the founder of French theater for introducing "the laws of the stage." This author of the French Enlightenment wrote Candide.
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    This later author attacked the "worm-eaten timber" of the classical unities in the preface to their play Cromwell. This author's poetry popularized the three-part alexandrine, or alexandrin ternaire.

[B5] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist occasionally resorted to using coffee grounds for his drawings, one of which shows a mischievously grinning literary character with wild hair "at 11 years." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    Name this artist of over four thousand drawings, some of which anticipated Surrealist automatic writing. A drawing by this artist depicts an ink-stained octopus spelling out his initials with its tentacles.
  Part 2 (ans: Katsushika Hokusai):
    The most infamous depiction of octopi in art history is probably the erotic shunga print Dream of the Fisherman's Wife, by this Japanese artist of The Great Wave off Kanagawa.
  Part 3 (ans: Minoan civilization):
    The curling tentacles of an octopus decorate the whole surface of a round vase by this culture, which frequently depicted a Snake Goddess in pottery figurines.

[B6] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: After publishing his first poems at the age of twenty-two, this writer was met with so much praise that he was given a royal pension for his work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo [or Victor-Marie Hugo]):
    Name this poet who came to prominence with the collections Nouvelles Odes et Poesies ("po-ay-ZEE") Diverses and Odes et Ballades. After witnessing an execution by the guillotine, this writer expressed his opposition to the death penalty in the short story "The Last Day of a Condemned Man."
  Part 2 (ans: French Generation of 1820 [reject "Twenties" or other answers referring to a decade]):
    Alan Spitzer wrote a book that places the young Victor Hugo along with Alphonse de Lamartine and the Comte de Vigny ("veen-YEE") in this French literary "generation" who grew up during the fall of the French Empire.
  Part 3 (ans: Iceland [or Island]):
    Hugo's first published novel was named after the title brigand "Hans of" this country. Axel and Lindenbrock descend into a volcano in this island country in Jules Verne's novel Journey to the Center of the Earth.

[B7] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In William Aggeler's translation of "Epigraph for a Condemned Book," the speaker argues that the reader should discard their rhetoric if they did not learn it from this figure, who is called an "artful dean." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Satan [or the Devil; or Lucifer]):
    Name this figure who is called a "Prince of Exile" in a poem which asks him to "take pity" on the speaker's "long misery."
  Part 2 (ans: Les fleurs du mal [or The Flowers of Evil]):
    Charles Baudelaire's turn from Catholicism inspired the inversion of the "Kyrie eleison" in his poem "The Litanies of Satan," which appears in this collection of his that opens with the preface "To the Reader."
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo (The poem is "Tomorrow at Dawn.")):
    This French poet wrote an unfinished religious epic detailing the fall of Satan to the storming of the Bastille. A poem by this author ends with the speaker putting "a bouquet of green holly and heather in bloom" on his daughter's grave.

[B8] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's first novel, Monsieur Venus, was banned in Belgium for explicit content that the text blamed on its nonexistent co-author Francis Talman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rachilde ("rah-SHEELD") [or Marguerite Vallette-Eymery]):
    Name this French Decadent author who referred to herself as a "man of letters." This androgynous author, who used a one-word pen-name, wrote The Demon of the Absurd and The Crystal Spider.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Hugo [or Victor-Marie Hugo]):
    Supposedly, Rachilde was inspired to enter Parisian literary culture by a supportive letter from this French author, who wrote The Hunchback of Notre-Dame.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Jarry):
    Rachilde was a close friend of this French playwright. Rachilde established the myth about the riotous opening night of this author's play Ubu Roi ("OO-boo rʼWUH").

[B9] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about exiles in European literature:
  Part 1 (ans: Nazi Germany [prompt on Germany]):
    The genre of Exilliteratur refers to the literature created by authors such as Bertolt Brecht and Hermann Broch who fled the persecutions of this 20th-Century government.
  Part 2 (ans: a poem [accept an ode or a song or a hymn; accept equivalents to any underlined answer]):
    Ovid blamed his exile to Tomis on "carmen et error," meaning one of these things "and a mistake." This is also the meaning of "carmen" in the title of Horace's Carmen Saeculare.
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo [accept Adele Hugo]):
    This author spent fifteen years exiled on an island for his criticisms of Napoleon III's government. This author's daughter Adele, who suffered from schizophrenia and obsessed over the British officer Albert Pinson, sometimes gives her name to Love Fever Syndrome.

[B10] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one chapter of a novel by this writer, Gavroche shows two street urchins where he lives inside the Elephant of the Bastille, not knowing that they are his brothers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    Name this French writer who followed the ex-convict Jean Valjean in Les Miserables.
  Part 2 (ans: argots):
    Les Miserables follows that chapter on Gavroche in the Elephant of the Bastille with a digression on this kind of French street slang. Marcel Schwob and Georges Guieysse wrote the first formal study of the Louchebem variety of this kind of slang.
  Part 3 (ans: Paris sewers [prompt on sewers by asking "in what city?"]):
    Another digression from Les Miserables concerns this place, whose history is laid out in a section called "The Intestine of the Leviathan." Jean Valjean carries the unconscious Marius through this place following the uprising.

[B11] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author from this country attacked the neoliberal policies which he blamed for the breakdown of his father's health in Who Killed My Father. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of France):
    Name this home of the author of The History of Violence and The End of Eddy. Exercises in Style, in which the same story is told 99 different ways, is by an Oulipo member from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Marguerite Duras):
    Eduoard Louis, the author of Who Killed My Father, said he was striving to create a "literary space" for violence in the same way that this author of Moderato Cantabile did. She also wrote the screenplay for Alain Resnais' Hiroshima mon amour.
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    In an interview, Louis said that literature rejected the working class, so no one from his childhood read anyone except two authors they knew were on their side: Emile Zola and this author of Les Miserables and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

[B12] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Narrator Robert Taylor informs the viewers of one of this man's films that all the servicemen shown have been killed, in The Fighting Lady. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    Name this photographer of The Pond-Moonlight who co-founded the Photo Secession movement with Alfred Stieglitz.
  Part 2 (ans: artists [or sculptors or painters; prompt on Henri Matisse by asking "what profession?"] (The second photograph is Rodin with His Sculptures "Victor Hugo" and "The Thinker".)):
    Edward Steichen photographed a person of this profession with "La Serpentine" in 1909. Another Steichen photograph depicts the dark profile of a man of this profession sitting pensively in its right foreground.
  Part 3 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Steichen was the head of the Department of Photography at this city's Museum of Modern Art, where he curated his exhibit The Family of Man. Diane Arbus photographed a child with a toy hand grenade in a park in this city.

[B13] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Critic Charles Augstin Sainte-Beuve's early infatuation with this author morphed into an infatuation and affair with his wife Adele Foucher. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    Name this author. Sainte-Beuve's diary contains a remark that the popularity of this author's Les Miserables was "proof that the public's taste was really sick."
  Part 2 (ans: The Toilers of the Sea [or Les Travailleurs de la mer]):
    Sainte-Beuve was silent on this Hugo novel, whose memorable scenes include a fight between Gilliatt and an octopus. It is dedicated to the island of Guernsey on which it was written.
  Part 3 (ans: classics [or classic works]):
    Sainte-Beuve asserted that works in this category are written in "a style new without neologism" that is "easily contemporary with all time" in an essay arguing for a new definition. Italo Calvino said that a book in this category will "never exhaust all it has to say" in one of fourteen definitions written to answer the question: Why read [these works]?

[B14] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem states that if we cannot adorn this location with a "bas-relief" sculpted from the "wars of earth and heaven," we should "let this boundary stone say no / To the dark flights of blasphemy hereafter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the tomb of Edgar Allan Poe [accept "The Tomb of Edgar Poe" or "Le tombeau d'Edgar Poe"; prompt on tomb or tombeau by asking "whose tomb?"]):
    Identify this location described in a poem by Stephane Mallarme which claims that it is the place where "the Poet" is "Changed by Eternity to himself at last."
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Valery):
    This other French poet said that he found the essential connection between Baudelaire and Poe in the first line of Mallarme's poem. He also described visiting tombs in his poem "The Graveyard by the Sea."
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    This Frenchman described visiting his daughter Leopoldine's grave in "Demain des l'aube" ("duh-MAN day LOBE"). This man was best known as a poet in France during his lifetime, but today he is known for Les miserables.

[B15] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The sight of this character's hanging body causes another to exclaim, 'Oh! All that I have ever loved!' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Esmeralda [accept Agnes]):
    Name this character whose death is ordered by King Louis XI after she is framed for the murder of Phoebus.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    Esmeralda is Quasimodo's beloved in The Hunchback of Notre Dame, a work of this author. The mention of this author's other novel, Les Miserables, is likely to elicit outbursts of song on the part of many quizzers.
  Part 3 (ans: Ninety-Three (or Quatre-vingt-treize)):
    This novel, Victor Hugo's last, describes the Revolt in Vendee and features characters including Cimourdain, Gauvain and Lantenac, who awards a sailor a medal for bravery then executes him without trial for the same act.

[B16] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is reunited with her mother, a cellar-dwelling hermitess, when the latter recognizes the red baby shoe she carries. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Esmeralda):
    Name this girl who owns the trained goat Djali ["jolly"] and becomes the focus of Archdeacon Frollo's evil plot.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    The gypsy girl Esmerelda appears in The Hunchback of Notre Dame, a novel by this French author of Les Miserables.
  Part 3 (ans: Le Grand Meaulnes ["moan"] [or The Grand Meaulnes; or The Wanderer; or The Lost Domain; or The Lost Estate; or Big Meaulnes]):
    Frantz de Galais becomes a gypsy in this other French novel. The original French title of this only novel by Alain-Fournier refers to Francois Seurel's idol, a schoolboy who falls in love with Yvonne at a mysterious manor.

[B17] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about other plays that sparked riots:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    This author was lauded by the artistic class of Paris because he called for a liberation from restrictive styles in the preface to his play Cromwell . In order to foil censors, many people showed up dressed in outrageous costumes to the premiere of his play Hernani .
  Part 2 (ans: Ubu Roi [or Ubu the King ; or other translations such as King Turd ]):
    This play both opened and closed on the same day in its December 1896 premiere in Paris. At its debut, a fight broke out in the audience when the opening word of "Merdre" was announced; when the spectators calmed down, this play's second word turned out also to be "Merdre," a riot ensued, and it was not performed again for ten years.

[B18] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The second half of a poem in this collection consists entirely of rhetorical questions suggesting possible origins of the dazzling skin-color of a swan-woman on the Rhine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Enamels and Cameos [or Emaux et Camees]):
    Name this French poetry collection, a favorite of Oscar Wilde's, which includes "Symphony in White Major" and ends with "Art." After murdering Basil Hallward, Dorian Gray reads and rhapsodizes over some stanzas from this collection's "Variations on the Carnival in Venice."
  Part 2 (ans: Theophile Gautier (TAY-oh-feel GOH-tee-ay) [or Pierre Jules Theophile Gautier]):
    Enamels and Cameos was written by this French poet and novelist who preached "art for art's sake" in the preface to Mademoiselle de Maupin ("mow"-PAHN).
  Part 3 (ans: Victor Hugo [or Victor Marie Hugo]):
    Gautier was deeply influenced by this contemporary, also a poet and novelist, who created Inspector Javert and Jean Valjean.

[B19] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work, this poet wrote that "Tomorrow, at dawn, in the hour when the countryside becomes white, I will leave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    Name this poet of The Contemplations who wrote about the French Revolution in Ninety-Three. The homeless and disfigured Gwynplaine throws himself into the sea in his The Man Who Laughs.
  Part 2 (ans: The Hunchback of Notre Dame [or Notre-Dame de Paris]):
    Hugo is more famous for this novel about Quasimodo and his cruel guardian Claude Frollo, who lusts for and betrays the beautiful Esmeralda.
  Part 3 (ans: architecture [or l'architecture; prompt on buildings or cathedrals]):
    Frollo predicts that print will kill this medium. Hugo claims that this medium enjoyed greater freedom of expression than literature, and that "whoever was born a poet became" a person who works in this form of art.

[B20] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: His 1828 collection of Odes and Ballades includes an ode to Napoleon's column, and he wrote of all the sailors who have drowned in the seas in his poem "Oceano Nox". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victor Hugo [or Victor Marie Hugo]):
    Name this French author of an unfinished epic with sections dedicated to the story of Nimrod, the death of Jesus Christ, and the storming of the Bastille. That work is The End of Satan.
  Part 2 (ans: The Hunchback of Notre Dame [or Notre-Dame de Paris]):
    Victor Hugo is better known for this novel, in which the gypsy Esmerelda inspires love in the Archdeacon Claude Frollo and the title character, the bellringer Quasimodo.
  Part 3 (ans: Bishop Charles-Francois-Bienvenu Myriel [or Monseigneur Bienvenu]):
    Hugo's Les Miserables opens with several chapters devoted to this clergyman, who later covers for Jean Valjean after the latter robs the church's silver, by claiming that he gave the silver to Jean as a gift.

[B21] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man was the son of a convict father and fortune teller mother and is self-conscious about being born in prison. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Javert):
    Name this character who at one point arrests the Thenardiers. He works undercover behind the barricade and eventually commits suicide by drowning himself in the Seine River when his life is spared by his nemesis.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    Javert is a character in this author's mammoth novel Les Miserables.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Days of a Condemned Man [or Le Dernier Jour d'un Condamne]):
    This 1829 Hugo short novel inspired many other writers with its socially conscious approach. It is written from the perspective of a man about to be executed at the guillotine.

[B22] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: Answer some questions about everyone's favorite Vietnamese syncretic religion, Cao Đai. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tay Ninh):
    The Holy See of Cao Đai is located in this Vietnamese city, its founding place.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Hugo):
    An image inside the temple at Tay Ninh shows Sun Yat-sen, Nguyen Binh Khiem, and this man signing a covenant with God. This French author wrote Les Miserables.
  Part 3 (ans: vegetarianism [accept not eating meat or equivalents]):
    Priests of Cao Đai are required to partake in this practice, while followers partake in it for at least ten days a month. In Rastafarianism, this practice is often followed in adherence to I-tal, and Pythagoreans also practiced it.
