=== STOCK CLUES: Camille Pissarro ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Camille Pissarro
  - This artist circulated a series of political drawings in which an old man watches the word "anarchy" rise with the sun. [PWR]
  - This artist's infected eye droops in a self-portrait painted while hiding in a hotel room from anti-Dreyfusard rioters.
  - A younger painter referred to this artist as "le bon dieu" after they lived together in the countryside; during that period, this artist of Social Turpitudes painted two women walking up around a bend on Jalais ["zhah-lay"] Hill. [PWR]
  - This artist of many (+) Pontoise landscapes painted two peasants and a hay cart directly onto a wooden palette. [PWR]
  - Apple Harvest at Eragny ["ay-rah-nyee"] is one of four pointillist paintings that this artist displayed separately from the rest of his work at the Eighth Impressionist Exhibition.
  - A 14 painting series by this artist shows the Boulevard Montmartre from above at different times and seasons. [PWR]
  - The only member to exhibit at all eight Impressionist Exhibitions was, for 10 points, what teacher of (*) Cezanne and oldest impressionist? [PWR,GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these 19th-century artists given material about their anti-Semitism.
  Part 1 (ans: Edgar Degas):
    After a model from his studio suggested Dreyfus was innocent, this artist kicked her out saying "You are Jewish...You are Jewish" even though she was actually a Protestant. He employed many models for the sculptures of ballet dancers, such as The Little Dancer Aged Fourteen.
  Part 2 (ans: Henri Toulouse-Lautrec):
    This artist perpetuated Jewish stereotypes as unattractive in most of his illustrations for Georges Clemenceau's At the Foot of Sinai. He made several paintings depicting lesbians for his series Le Lit.
  Part 3 (ans: Camille Pissarro):
    This artist made a series of 28 anti-Semitic drawings called Turpitudes sociales. His son Lucien befriended Walter Sickert during his time in England, where he helped found the Camden Town Group.

[B2] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Unusually for the time, this painting has its horizon line at the top of the painting, and its broad swathes of color show Japanese influence. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Boating Party):
    Name this painting which shows a woman in white awkwardly holding a baby in pink, while a man in black faces away from the viewer while rowing.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary Cassatt):
    The Boating Party was painted by this female, American-born Impressionist, known for her many depictions of mothers and children such as The Child's Bath.
  Part 3 (ans: Camille Pissarro):
    Cassatt introduced the young American artist Lucy Bacon to this Danish-born Impressionist, who became her teacher. This "father" of the Impressionists painted several versions of the Boulevard Montmartre in Paris.

[B3] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's painting Rideau, Cruchon, et Compotier is the most expensive still life painting of all time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Cezanne):
    Name this artist, who painted over forty portraits of his model-turned-wife Hortense Fiquet and many landscapes of his father's farm at Jas de Bouffan.
  Part 2 (ans: mountain [or montagne]):
    Cezanne made an extended series of oil paintings of Sante-Victoire, one of these geographical features in Aix-en-Provence.
  Part 3 (ans: Camille Pissarro):
    Early in his career, Cezanne was mentored by this father figure to the Neo-Impressionists, known for his many landscapes of the towns of Pontoise and Louveciennes and his paintings of Boulevard Montmartre in Paris.

[B4] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a road running up a hill in Montmartre in his The Galette Windmill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Camille Corot [or Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot]):
    Name this man who was fond of painting the trees of Ville-d'Avray. During a trip to Italy, he painted a view of the remnants of the Ponte d'Augusto that now hangs in the Louvre.
  Part 2 (ans: Camille Pissarro [or Jacob Abraham Camille Pissarro]):
    This St. Thomas-born student of Corot was the only person to show works in all eight Impressionist exhibitions.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary Cassatt [or Mary Stevenson Cassatt]):
    Corot also taught Berthe Morisot, who Gustave Geffroy included with Marie Bracquemond and this other woman in his list of the three grandes dames of Impressionism. This woman's The Bath is one of her many depictions of mothers and children.

[B5] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two people are dwarfed by a tree in a painting set "among the vines" in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louveciennes):
    Name this French city, frequently painted by the Impressionists. Alfred Sisley's paintings set here include one depicting early snow and one depicting the Chemin de la Machine.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Abraham Camille Pissarro):
    Louveciennes was also a favorite subject of this Impressionist born in St. Thomas. He made a number of paintings of Sydenham and was the only artist featured in every Impressionist exhibition.
  Part 3 (ans: cathedral):
    Pissarro painted this type of building in Rouen, which is also the subject of a series by Monet depicting it at different times of day.

[B6] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's later pointillist works include Picking Peas and Potato Harvest, and he gained experience while studying under Anton Melbye. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Camille Pissarro):
    Name this artist who painted day and night versions of Boulevard Montmartre. His Apple Picking at Eragny and Bather in the Woods both show women in a rural setting.
  Part 2 (ans: impressionism):
    Pissarro exhibited as part of this movement in the middle of his career. It includes Manet and Monet, whose depiction of a sunrise scene shares its name.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Sisley):
    This artist's earliest surviving work is his Lane Near a Small Town. A British citizen, he is best known for works such as a View of the Thames and his Bridge at Villeneuve-la-Garenne.
