=== STOCK CLUES: William Holman Hunt ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 23 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jesus Christ [accept either underlined portion; accept Christ in the House of his Parents] (The leadin refers to William Holman Hunt's painting The Shadow of Death)
  - While opening a chest with a blue and gold crown, a woman stares at this figure's "shadow of death" in one painting.
  - This figure is red-headed in a painting that Charles Dickens lambasted for its depiction of a woman painted "so horrible in her ugliness" as to appear in the "lowest gin-shop in England".
  - A boy holding a water bowl stares at this figure as he's kissed by his mother, who is modeled on Mary Hodgkinson, in that painting.
  - An artist worked on both a painting of this figure and The Lady of Shalott with Edward Robert Hughes.
  - In that painting, this figure holds a lantern in his left hand and knocks with his right; that William Holman Hunt painting is The Light of the World.
  - For 10 points, John Everett Millais depicted which figure in the House of his Parents, Mary and Joseph? [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: William Holman Hunt
  - One painting this artist includes a blue wall design featuring dancing women bearing globes.
  - A musical arrangement of Tennyson's Tears, Idle Tears lies discarded on the floor in one of this artist's works, while in another the central figure shows a girl a death's-head hawk moth.
  - This artist who painted a version of the Lady of Shallott repainted his most famous work when he discovered that sixpence was being charged to see it by Keble College, Oxford.
  - This artist depicted Christ knocking on a door in The Light of the World.
  - For 10 points, name this Pre-Raphaelite painter of The Awakening Conscience and The Hireling Shepherd. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Hunt (accept James Hunt or Tristram Hunt or William Holman Hunt or Jeremy Hunt)
  - One character with this surname was described as an "immortal fuck" by Clay Regazzoni in a 2013 film.
  - A politician with this surname called Michael Gove "crass" for politicising the memory of the First World War, and this is also the surname of the painter who depicted a woman rising from her lover's lap in front of a piano in The Awakening Conscience.
  - The job title of another man with this surname was notoriously spoonerised by James Naughtie during that man's tenure as Culture Secretary.
  - For 10 points, name this surname shared by Niki Lauda's rival and the current Health Secretary. [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: William Holman Hunt
  - In one painting by this artist, a watering can stands in front of an altar upon which rests a flower-pot decorated with skulls. [PWR]
  - At the bottom of one of his paintings, a solitary yellow glove lies on the rug next to a tangled, unraveling skein of yarn. [PWR]
  - In that painting by him, under a table on the left, a greedy-eyed cat plays with a dead bird. [PWR]
  - Unlike that of Millais, his depiction of Isabella shows her after Lorenzo's death, embracing the pot of basil. [PWR]
  - The title animal has a red ribbon wrapped around its (*) horns and is dying in the skeleton-littered salt shallows of the Dead Sea in his The Scapegoat. [PWR]
  - Christ carries a lantern and knocks on a door overgrown with weeds in his The Light of the World.
  - In his most famous painting, a man in blue smoking jacket lazes in a chair by a piano, while his mistress leaps out of his lap to abandon their love affair.
  - For 10 points, name this Pre-Raphaelite painter of The Awakening Conscience. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a painting of this figure, two sandals lie on the floor next to fallen blue petals and a nearby sculpture of a sphinx. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Lady of Shalott):
    Name this figure depicted in a painting that includes a bas-relief on the right of Hercules taking apples from the garden of the Hesperides. In one painting, this figure is sitting next to a crucifix and three candles.
  Part 2 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    This artist painted a depiction of the Lady of Shalott that includes a split mirror and an unwinding thread. This artist painted a woman with a pink bow sitting on a man's lap in front of a piano in The Awakening Conscience.
  Part 3 (ans: The Hireling Shepherd):
    In this other Hunt painting, a man in a wheat field shows a death's-head hawkmoth to a girl modeled after the local youth Emma Watkins.

[B2] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting's title is derived from John 8, in which Jesus tells a crowd that "Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness," while the painting itself illustrates a metaphor from Revelation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Light of the World):
    Name this painting in which a lavishly dressed Jesus knocks at a door overgrown with roots and thorns. Critics note that the lack of a handle on the door in this painting indicates it could only be opened from the inside.
  Part 2 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    This Pre-Raphaelite artist painted The Light of the World as part of a desire to employ art to spiritually move his audience, as also seen in his depiction of a woman rising from the lap of her lover in The Awakening Conscience.
  Part 3 (ans: Judaism):
    Hunt attempted to convert adherents of this religion to Christianity by synthesizing the two in The Scapegoat, which draws from a practice detailed in Leviticus.

[B3] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this painting, a teal-clad Mary rests one hand on a chair draped with a pink cloth while opening a box containing the Magi's gifts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Shadow of Death):
    Name this painting that depicts Jesus stretching his arms upward in front of a rack of carpentry tools while standing amid wood shavings. This painting's title comes from the premonition of the crucifixion it contains.
  Part 2 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    The Shadow of Death was painted by this artist of The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple and the satirical Miracle of the Holy Fire. He also depicted Jesus knocking on a door in The Light of the World.
  Part 3 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood (or PRB)):
    Along with John Millais and others, William Holman Hunt belonged to this group of 19th artists which rejected the formalism imposed on art by the Renaissance.

[B4] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting includes a depiction of a dove resting on a ladder, which represents the Holy Spirit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christ in the House of His Parents ):
    Identify this work in which shows several figures around a carpentry table, including John the Baptist and Mary, as well as Jesus, whose hand is bleeding.
  Part 2 (ans: John Everett Millais):
    Christ in the House of His Parents was created by this Pre-Raphaelite of Peace Concluded and The Order of Release, as well as a famous depiction of Ophelia.
  Part 3 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    This other artist created a companion piece to Christ in the House of His Parents, A Converted British Family Sheltering a Christian Missionary from the Persecution of the Druids, as well as The Hireling Shepherd, The Light of the World, and The Awakening Conscience.

[B5] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Charles Dickens wrote that one character in this painting looks like a hideous alcoholic who would "stand out from the rest of the company" in "the lowest gin-shop in England." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christ in the House of His Parents):
    Name this oil canvas which depicts the title figure in a carpentry workshop, having cut his hand on a nail and being brought water by John the Baptist. It was extremely controversial for showing grimy conditions.
  Part 2 (ans: Ophelia):
    Christ in the House of His Parents was painted by John Everett Millais, a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. Millais also painted this female character from Hamlet, floating in a river.
  Part 3 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    This other member of the Brotherhood painted The Scapegoat and The Light of the World.

[B6] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jesus Christ holds a lantern and knocks on a weed-choked door in his The Light of the World. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    Name this Victorian painter of The Scapegoat and a picture of a woman rising out the lap of her lover, The Awakening Conscience.
  Part 2 (ans: The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    William Holman Hunt, along with Dante Gabriel Rossetti, was a member of this British artistic movement, which sought to restore artistic aesthetics to what they were before the painter of The School of Athens.
  Part 3 (ans: Beata Beatrix):
    A sundial stands behind the title green-clad figure, who clenches her eyes shut, while a red dove clutching a poppy sits by her arm in this painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
