=== STOCK CLUES: Eisenstein ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sergei Eisenstein [or Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein] (The journal October is named after Eisenstein's film October: Ten Days That Shook the World.)
  - Early in his career, this theorist drew on commedia dell'arte tropes to stage the play Enough Stupidity in Every Wise Man. [PWR]
  - In a lecture series, this theorist insisted that Paul Robeson should wield a candelabrum to star in a film about Jean-Jacques Dessalines . [PWR]
  - This theorist remarked that "movies were boiling" in the kettle described in the opening line of The Cricket in the Hearth, in an essay positing that Charles Dickens was the strongest influence on D.
  - W. [PWR]
  - Griffith. [PWR]
  - In an essay on cinema's "fourth dimension," this theorist analyzed the emotions induced by haiku and (*) kabuki.
  - This theorist directed a film that inspired the name of an arts journal founded by Rosalind Krauss and Annette Michelson.
  - This theorist used the terms "intellectual," "overtonal," "tonal," "rhythmic," and "metric" to describe the five types of a concept he developed with peers like Vsevolod Pudovkin.
  - For 10 points, what theorist edited the "Odessa steps" montage in his film Battleship Potemkin? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sergei Eisenstein
  - To end a film, this director created a shot in which a ruler's bearded head appears to tower over a parade demanding his return in the background. [PWR]
  - To end another film, this director cut between graphic footage of cows being slaughtered with soldiers firing on crowds of people in a muddy field. [PWR]
  - In 1946, this director died of a heart attack after he chose not to revise the second part of a trilogy deemed "anti-historical" by the Central Committee. [PWR]
  - A bishop of the (*) Teutonic Order wears a hat with a swastika in a film by this director that restored his political reputation by dramatizing the Battle of the Ice.
  - In a film by this director, a baby in a carriage is let loose during the Odessa Steps sequence.
  - For 10 points, name this Soviet pioneer of montage who directed Alexander Nevsky and Battleship Potemkin. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Untitled Film Set (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Soviet Union [or USSR; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; prompt on Russia] (The lead-in refers to a picture of Sergei Eisenstein.)
  - On a trip abroad, an asexual director from this country posed for a picture on a large phallic spiny cactus. [PWR]
  - In a film by Peter Greenaway, that director from this country has an affair with a guide giving him a tour of the Guanajuato Mummies. [PWR]
  - A director from this country opened a film with a minute-long low-angle shot of a cross overlooking the Atlantic Ocean. [PWR]
  - After a funeral procession emerges from between two burning cars in that film, its director from this country had the camera dolly out a (*) window underneath a flag hoisted by factory workers. [PWR]
  - In a scene by a director from this country that inspired a Boogie Nights shot, the camera follows a bikini contest participant underwater in a rooftop swimming pool.
  - Charlie Chaplin helped a director from this country meet Upton and Mary Sinclair to make the unfinished epic film ¡Que viva Mexico!
  - For 10 points, Soy Cuba is a film made by a crew from what home country of Sergei Eisenstein? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Answer: Kaplan [accept Aryeh Moshe Eliyahu Kaplan or Leonard Kaplan or Judith Kaplan Eisenstein or Mordecai Menahem Kaplan or Mottel Kaplan]
  - A man with this surname used both Hebrew and Ladino sources to produce the first English translation of the Me'am Lo'ez (meh-AM lo-EZ) and included many maps and diagrams in a 1981 English translation of the Pentateuch titled The Living Torah. [PWR]
  - A man with this surname defined God as "the power that makes for salvation" as part of his theology of transnaturalism and coined the phrase "the past has a vote, but not a veto." Together with Eugene Kohn, that man with this surname edited a Sabbath prayer book that used the word "drawn" instead of "chosen," prompting his (*) excommunication by the Union of Orthodox Rabbis.
  - That man with this surname held the first American bat mitzvah for his daughter Judith, who later married his student Ira Eisenstein, and argued that Jews needed to adapt their practices to modern society in Judaism as a Civilization.
  - For 10 points, give the surname of the rabbi who founded the Reconstructionist movement. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Science
     Answer: quadratic [prompt on polynomial until "Eisenstein" is read]
  - A sieve (siv) with this name introduced by Pomerance outperforms the general number field sieve in factoring integers with fewer than 100 digits.
  - The Eisenstein integers are part of this type of field extension over the rationals; the elements of that extension take the form a-plus-b-omega.
  - Functions described by this adjective correspond to the shaded cells on diagonal lines in the prime number-depicting Ulam (OO-lom) spiral; one of those functions described by this adjective outputs a prime for its first 40 positive integer inputs.
  - Al-Khwarizmi found the general solution to this type of equation by completing the square, and the solutions are real when the discriminant is positive.
  - For 10 points, identify this term for polynomials of degree two. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After Pandora's Box, G. W. Pabst's second collaboration with Louise Brooks was a 1929 film titled for one of these objects in which the innocent girl Thymian falls into prostitution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: diary [or diaries; accept Diary of a Lost Girl or Diary of a Country Priest; accept Tagebuch einer Verlorenen or Journal d'un cure de campagne]):
    Paul Schrader's primary influences for the film First Reformed were Ingmar Bergman's Winter Light and a Robert Bresson film titled for what sort of object belonging to a country priest?
  Part 2 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag] (The first director is Marta Meszaros. Bela Tarr and Agnes Hranitzky collaborated with the novelist Laszlo Krasznahorkai on the latter films.)):
    A director from this country made Diary for My Children as part of her Diary Trilogy. A pair of married directors from this country collaborated with a novelist on the films Werckmeister Harmonies and Satantango.
  Part 3 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein):
    This director's first film, Glumov's Diary, uses several visual gags to portray the book's contents. This Soviet pioneer of montage directed Battleship Potemkin.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: Newton's identities give rearrangement formulae for the elementary symmetric variety of these functions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: polynomials):
    Name these functions expressed as sums of powers of a variable. Examples of these functions of degree 2 may be solved with the quadratic formula.
  Part 2 (ans: rational numbers [or rationals; accept Q]):
    By Gauss's lemma, a primitive polynomial is irreducible over the integers if and only if it is irreducible over these numbers. A namesake theorem constrains roots in this set in terms of a polynomial's first and last coefficients.
  Part 3 (ans: Gotthold Eisenstein [or Ferdinand Gotthold Max Eisenstein]):
    Another sufficient criterion for the irreducibility of polynomials over the rational numbers is given by this German mathematician. Gauss apocryphally rated this mathematician on par with Newton and Archimedes.

[B3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Shots of both bread-making and this action are played in reverse in a 1924 Dziga Vertov film. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: slaughtering cows [accept killing cows or equivalents; accept "bulls" or "cattle" in place of "cows"; prompt on slaughtering or equivalents that do not mention the animal by asking "of what?"]):
    In a classic example of montage, shots of what action are intercut with a militia murdering laborers in a field in the climactic scene of the 1925 film Strike?
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein):
    Strike is a film by this Soviet director. A baby carriage rolls down the Odessa Steps in a scene from this director's film Battleship Potemkin.
  Part 3 (ans: eye [accept Kino-Eye or Cine-Eye; prompt on face]):
    The aforementioned Vertov film is titled for one of these objects in reference to his theory of filmmaking. In a shot from Vertov's Man with a Movie Camera, one of these objects is superimposed on a camera.

[B4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Leadin: This film theorist discussed Kabuki theatre in his essay The Filmic Fourth Dimension. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein):
    Name this film theorist who developed five 'methods of montage'. In their collection of essays Film Form, this theorist stated that 'montage is conflict'.
  Part 2 (ans: editing):
    Eisenstein ("EYE-zuhn-shtyne") was a pioneer of Soviet montage theory, which emphasised this general part of post-production. Basic techniques in this field include shot/reverse shot, cuts, and transitions.
  Part 3 (ans: Kuleshov effect):
    The theoretical basis of Soviet montage cinema is this effect, whose namesake invented 'creative geography'. In this effect, viewers derive more meaning from two sequential shots interacting than a single isolated one.

[B5] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: According to the book Film Form, this technique imbues all of Japanese culture except for cinema, including Sharaku's portraits of kabuki actors and "transitionless acting" in Japanese theater. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: montage):
    Name this editing technique used by many early Soviet directors. This term also refers to scenes like the training sequence in Rocky.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein [or Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein]):
    Film Form is by this theorist who tested out his theories of montage in a scene in which a baby carriage rolls down the Odessa Steps.
  Part 3 (ans: Lev Kuleshov [or Lev Vladimirovich Kuleshov]):
    This director of By the Law demonstrated the power of montage by alternating identical shots of an actor's expressionless face with different images.

[B6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A character in a film by this director puts a crown of thorns on his head after reaching a supposedly desire-granting room to much disappointment. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky):
    Name this Soviet director whose film Stalker follows three men through a disturbing tunnel known as "the meat grinder" in a prohibited area known as "the Zone." He directed a historical epic about the iconographer Andrei Rublev (rub-LYOFF).
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein [Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein]):
    This earlier Soviet filmmaker and theorist created a groundbreaking use of montage in his 1925 films Strike and The Battleship Potemkin.
  Part 3 (ans: The Color of Pomegranates [or Sayat Nova; or Tsvyet Granaty]):
    This 1969 film by Sergei Parajanov (puh-ruh-JON-off) tries to depict the life of a great Armenian poet through evocative, rather than narrative, visuals. It features a shot of a boy lying on a monastery roof as the wind turns the pages of hundreds of books around him, and many shots of the title fruit being cut.

[B7] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director won the grand prize at Cannes for the first film ever screened there from his country, a tragedy in which a painter recounts the death of a shunned woman who refused to pose nude for a painting. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Emilio "El Indio" Fernandez):
    Identify this Golden Age Mexican director of Maria Candelaria who adapted Steinbeck into La Perla and is often said to have been the model for the Oscar statuette.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein [or Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein]):
    This director abandoned ¡Que viva Mexico!, his attempt to capture the entire history of Mexico on film, after shooting 50 hours of footage and failing to come up with an idea for an actual movie. He also directed the silent films Strike and October.
  Part 3 (ans: Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu):
    This modern Mexican director completed his "death trilogy" with 2006's complicatedly-plotted Babel. More recently, he won back-to-back Best Director Oscars for Birdman and the Revenant.

[B8] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man described the style of filmmaking he pioneered as "collision," and in another article praised Dickens' stories for their strong visuals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein):
    Name this theorist and developer of Montage Theory. He was also the director of Strike and another film in which a bunch of people are shot on the Odessa Steps.
  Part 2 (ans: USSR [or Soviet Union; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; prompt on "Russia"]):
    Eisenstein was one of the most prominent filmmakers from this nation. Leaders in this country charged Eisenstein with being a "formalist" after he made October about the 1917 Revolution in this nation.
  Part 3 (ans: continuity style editing [or Hollywood style editing]):
    In contrast to montage, this editing style attempts to connect each shot with the next in a way that also furthers the plot. It is used in most narrative films.

[B9] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about Soviet film inspired by World War II and the events leading up to it for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein):
    Alexander Nevsky, a film by this director, was produced as a propaganda feature in the face of German expansionist rhetoric. This director was also responsible for Battleship Potemkin.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrei Tarkovsky):
    A child becomes a scout for the Red Army in Ivan's Childhood, a film by this director of Solaris. In what can be considered a happy ending by Soviet standards, it is revealed that Ivan was captured and hanged by the Nazis just before the end of the war.
  Part 3 (ans: Come and See):
    This psychological horror film details a teenagers involvement with partisans in Belarus. After the protagonist's hearing is impaired by an explosion, a droning ringing can be heard for the rest of the film, which was designed to induce nausea in the audience.

[B10] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this director's last films was an adaptation of Boris Godunov in which he starred in the title role. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergei Fedorovich Bondarchuk):
    Name this Soviet director who adapted work by Mikhail Sholokhov for his Destiny of a Man and starred as Pierre Bezukhov in his own seven-hour adaptation of War and Peace.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky):
    Bondarchuk's daughter Natalya starred in Solaris, a film by this director. His other works include Stalker and Andrei Rublev.
  Part 3 (ans: Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein):
    Bondarchuk and Tarkovsky emerged a generation after this early Soviet director of radically edited and influential political films such as Strike and The Battleship Potemkin.
