=== STOCK CLUES: Philip Johnson ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 19 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Johnson [or Philip Cortelyou Johnson]
  - This architect designed the Kneses  Tifereth Israel Synagogue for free as an atonement for his support of the Nazi Party.
  - The landscape for one of this architect's homes is modeled on Nicolas Poussin's The Burial of Phocion and features a large red gatehouse known as "Da Monsta." The top of a building designed by this architect resembles a piece of Chippendale furniture and is located at 550 Madison Avenue.
  - This first winner of the Pritzker Prize and his partner David Whitney lived in a home he designed in New Canaan, Connecticut.
  - This architect created the Four Seasons Restaurant and other interior designs for a collaborative project with Mies van der Rohe; that project is the Seagram Building.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of the Glass House. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Johnson [or Philip Cortelyou Johnson]
  - Three circular rooms, each with a rotating "poster rack" allowing visitors to see forty-two artworks two at a time, compose this architect's Tomb of Agamemnon-inspired Painting Gallery.
  - This architect refused to reveal the secret inscription atop the "staircase to nowhere" that makes up his Monument to Lincoln Kirstein.
  - The open pediment atop a skyscraper designed by this architect earned that structure the nickname "Chippendale Building." A brick cylinder conceals the bathroom in this architect's personal residence in New Canaan, Connecticut, the design of which drew from another architect's Farnsworth House.
  - For 10 points, name this collaborator with Mies on the Seagram Building who is best known for designing the Glass House. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Johnson
  - Agamemnon's tomb inspired this architect's Painting Gallery, which is located in a complex that can be accessed through the red-and-black "Da Monsta" gatehouse.
  - The Burial of Phocion inspired the landscaping of a New Canaan complex that served as this artist's (*) Connecticut home. [PWR]
  - This architect collaborated with a German architect on a building located at 375 Park Avenue that houses the Four Seasons Restaurant.
  - For 10 points, which American architect of the Glass House worked with Mies van der Rohe on the Seagram Building? [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Johnson
  - One critic used the phrase "mammoth Lego blocks" to describe this architect's John F.
  - Kennedy Memorial in Dallas, Texas. [PWR]
  - This architect designed two buildings that mirror each other and have an inclination of 15 degrees in Madrid, Spain called the "Gates of Europe." In Denver, he designed a building that is known as the "Mailbox Building," the (*) Wells Fargo Center. [PWR]
  - A building he designed in Pittsburgh has 231 glass spires, and is the PPG Place.
  - The recipient of the first Pritzker Prize, this person collaborated with Ludwig Mies van der Rohe to design the Seagram Building, and he designed a house in New Canaan, CT that has a bathroom with brick walls, but the rest of the house transparent.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of the Glass House. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Local designer Jens Risom restored the interior of a 1960s pool house in this state, the Gores Pavilion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Connecticut [or CT] (The last line refers to Philip Johnson's Glass House.)):
    Name this non-Massachusetts state where the "Harvard Five" were active. An angular, red-and-black building called "Da Monsta" stands outside another house in this state that was modeled on the Farnsworth House.
  Part 2 (ans: Eliot Noyes):
    Philip Johnson was a member of the "Harvard Five" along with this architect, whose International Style house in New Canaan contained Alexander Calder's sculpture Black Beast II. This architect also designed IBM's Selectric Typewriter.
  Part 3 (ans: Staatliches Bauhaus):
    Marcel Breuer, another member of the "Harvard Five," studied at this institution. The Farnsworth House was designed by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe ("meese van der roh"), who led this institution before it was closed by the Nazis.

[B2] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Abbot Suger ("soo-ZHAIR") wrote that "the dull mind rises to truth through that which is material" to justify his use of natural light in the design of these buildings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gothic cathedrals [accept churches]):
    Name these buildings. Flying buttresses allowed massive windows to be installed in Gothic examples of these places, which let brilliant light stream into examples of them like Notre Dame.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    This much more modern architect emphasized allowing in natural light in his design for California's Crystal Cathedral. He also designed the Glass House, where he lived with his partner David Whitney for 45 years.
  Part 3 (ans: Tadao Ando [or Ando Tadao]):
    This modern Japanese architect allowed light to stream in through a cross cut in the concrete wall of his Church of the Light. Works by Hiroki Oda are displayed in this architect's "Daylight Museum."

[B3] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For the 1964 New York World's Fair, Texaco sponsored a million-dollar installation to accompany the New York State Pavilion designed by this architect. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    Name this architect who won the first Pritzker Architecture Prize in 1979. This architect based the design of his own Connecticut residence on Mies van der Rohe's ("meese van der roh's") Farnsworth House.
  Part 2 (ans: Montreal):
    Buckminster Fuller designed this Canadian city's Biosphere, a geodesic dome on a narrow island in the Saint Lawrence River, for Expo '67.
  Part 3 (ans: cardboard paper [or paper tubes; prompt on paper] (All of the works are by Shigeru Ban.)):
    After designing the German Pavilion of Expo '67, engineer Frei Otto helped design the Japanese pavilion made out of this material for Hanover's Expo 2000. This material was used to build the Byumba refugee camps in Rwanda, the Takatori Catholic Church in Kobe, and a building for the Diocese of Christchurch.

[B4] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these factions was exemplified by the pure modernism of Peter Eisenman and Richard Meier, while the other was led by Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown, who championed postmodernist ornamentation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Whites and Grays):
    Name both of these architectural factions which had their colorful names popularized by Robert Stern.
  Part 2 (ans: Michael Graves):
    This designer and architect of the Portland Building and the Denver Public Library was an original member of the New York Five, but defected to the Grays and became a leading postmodernist.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    The highest profile defection from the Whites to the Grays was this Glass House architect, whose design for the AT&T Building included a decidedly postmodernist ornamental top.

[B5] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This book's "nonstraightforward" introduction presents a "gentle manifesto" stating that Godel's incompleteness theorem and T.S. Eliot's analysis of "difficult" poetry are its precedents. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture):
    Name this work which analyzes the "double-functioning" and "both-and" elements of buildings as examples of the title concepts. It contains its author's dictum that "less is a bore."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    In the book, Robert Venturi praises this architect's Wiley House for attempting to get beyond the simplicities of "the elegant pavilion," but bemoans the "bland architecture" of his Glass House.
  Part 3 (ans: Alvar Aalto):
    Venturi notes that the "best twentieth-century architects" usually reject simplification, praising this man for combining "standardization with irrationality" for his Cultural Center in Wolsburg. He also created the Baker House for MIT.

[B6] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Rodney Walker's building of this type contains several extended overhanging eaves, and the one designed by Charles and Ray Eames was #8 in the Case Study Program. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: an architect's personal residence [or the house that the architect himself or herself lives in; prompt on house or residence]):
    Identify this type of building, which Frank Gehry designed as an extension of a Dutch Colonial structure incorporating chain-link fences and corrugated steel in Santa Monica.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Johnson [or Philip Cortelyou Johnson]):
    The best-known personal residence is the Glass House, designed by this American who worked on the Seagram Building with Mies van der Rohe.
  Part 3 (ans: Ricardo Bofill):
    This Barcelona-born architect converted an abandoned cement factory into his personal residence, used columns of prefabricated concrete for his Les Espaces d'Abraxas housing project in Paris, and designed the National Theater of Catalonia.

[B7] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building somehow scored an abysmal 3 out of 100 for its Energy Star rating, and the asshole architect of this building insisted that the blinds only have three possible settings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seagram Building):
    Name this corporate modernist skyscraper whose original plans had to be scrapped because building codes require structural material to be fireproofed.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Johnson):
    This architect designed the Four Seasons restaurant for the Seagram Building, and also designed the Crystal Cathedral and Pittsburgh's PPG Place.
  Part 3 (ans: Glass House):
    Johnson died in this building he designed to be his primary residence. The "Da Monsta" visitor's pavilion was built on the Connecticut grounds of this building.
