=== STOCK CLUES: Leo Tolstoy ===
Tossup questions: 17 found, 98 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 35 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Answer: fools [accept specific types of fools like the lucky fool or the holy fool; accept Ivan the Fool or Ivan-durak before mention; accept fool-for-Christ; accept Ship of Fools; accept yurodivy; accept ninny; accept simpleton; prompt on peasant or serf with "what archetypal character are they?"; prompt on lazy person with "what archetypal character are they?"; reject "jesters"] (The second and third lines refer to Leo Tolstoy's retelling of the story of Ivan the Fool.)
  - In a Russian folktale, a person of this type befriends a magic pike and rides a stove to see the king. [PWR]
  - In a reimagining of a folk character similar to Emelya, little devils teach this type of person how to make soldiers from straw and gold from oak leaves. [PWR]
  - That character of this type also inspired a Cesar Cui opera, in which he uses pots meant for his family to feed hungry birds and marries the Tsar's daughter. [PWR]
  - In one story, Simon the Warrior and Tarras the Pot-Bellied are brothers of (*) Ivan-durak, who exemplifies the folkloric archetype of this kind of person. [PWR]
  - A group of people of this type who worship Saint Grobian journey to Narragonia in a book by Sebastian Brant.
  - One painting depicts a nun and a monk playing a lute inside a vessel with a tree for a mast bearing the title people of this type.
  - For 10 points, Hieronymous Bosch painted an allegorical ship run by what title kind of people? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Russia [or the Russian Empire or Rossiya or Rossiyskaya Imperiya; accept Russian Thinkers] (The unnamed authors are Leo Tolstoy, Alexander Herzen, and Vissarion Belinsky, who are all the subject of long essays in Berlin's Russian Thinkers. The second sentence refers to Belinsky's letter to Gogol.)
  - A critic from this country who quipped "Fish are born to fly, and everywhere they swim" is the subject of Aileen Kelly's The Discovery of Chance.
  - A critic from this country wrote a harsh letter that claims the public is forgiving for a bad book "but never for a pernicious one." The memoir My Past and Thoughts is by a writer from this country who coined the phrase "Genghis Khan with the telegraph." A collection of essays on this country's (*) 19th-century thinkers inspired Tom Stoppard to portray the editor of The Contemporary in The Coast of Utopia. [PWR]
  - An author from this country failed to express "one big thing" in his theory of history according to Isaiah Berlin.
  - For 10 points, "The Hedgehog and the Fox" comments on a Christian anarchist from what country who wrote Resurrection, The Kreutzer Sonata, and War and Peace? [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Crimean War (The officer in the first sentence was Leo Tolstoy, whose Sevastopol Sketches played a similar role to dispatches from the front.)
  - An officer in this war proposed a "military gazette" aimed at its largely illiterate rank-and-file soldiers, which was promptly quashed by his country's king.
  - A declaration that the losing side in this war "was not sulking but meditating" names a period known as recueillement, during which glasnost took on its current political meaning.
  - Lenin argued this war's loser faced a choice between the "American" and "Prussian" roads when ending an "ill" targeted by Alexander Gorchakov.
  - Nikolai Pirogov developed a system to triage casualties of this war, while another person developed a polar area diagram to track disease during it.
  - The failure of peasant armies in this war at battles like Inkerman prompted the creation of zemstvos following it.
  - Russia's Great Reforms occurred following, for 10 points, what 1850s war fought around the Black Sea? [GIVE]

[T4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy] (The second sentence is from War and Peace.)
  - One of this author's narrators questions "strange" phrases like "my land," "my air," or "my water," in a story that ends as a prince's rotting body is reburied in a uniform.
  - Men leading dogs cry "ulyulyu !" during a family's elaborate wolf-hunt in one of this author's novels.
  - A novel by this author briefly takes the perspective of a bird-dog during a snipe-hunting outing in a marsh.
  - In "Art as Device," Viktor Shklovsky praised the "defamiliarization" created by this author adopting an old horse's point of view in his story "Strider." This author, who became vegetarian after his 1870s spiritual crisis, described Makhotin's Gladiator being overtaken in an officers' steeplechase that reveals the protagonist's affair.
  - For 10 points, what author created the horse Frou-Frou, whose back is broken while being ridden by Vronsky in Anna Karenina? [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy
  - A pair of characters created by this author represent an industrial future and a return to a pre-capitalist agricultural economy according to a Vadim Shneyder book considering "Capitalist Realism" in one country. [PWR]
  - One of the most popular of early COVID pandemic virtual book clubs was one led by A Public Space and Yiyun Li in which the club spent 85 days reading this author. [PWR]
  - This author spent 15 years compiling an almanac-like collection of quotes from philosophy and religious traditions to create his book A Calendar of Wisdom. [PWR]
  - This author included (*) The Gospel in Brief and What I Believe in a thematically linked tetralogy of nonfiction books that he left untitled.
  - This author fictionalized aspects of his younger years in the early novels Childhood, Boyhood, and Youth.
  - This author wrote about a fourfold approach to confronting misery with the options of ignorance, hedonism, suicide, and muddling through in his pessimistic meditation Confession.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose nonfiction includes What Is Art? and The Kingdom of God is Within You. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Tolstoy; or County Leo Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
  - In a short story by this author, a self-described adulterer, murderer, blasphemer, and deceiver seeks out the mother-in-law of a drunken official for salvation. [PWR]
  - In that story by this author, a divorcee attempts to seduce the title "handsome hermit," but becomes an abbess after the hermit cuts off his own finger to repress his lust. [PWR]
  - A man created by this author dreams of the chief transforming first into a peasant, then the (*) Devil, before that man dies the next day. [PWR]
  - In that story by this author, a man who was promised all the Bashkir land that his spade could touch by sunset instead receives six feet for his grave.
  - Gerasim cares for a man who dies after injuring himself while hanging curtains in a novella by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "How Much Land Does a Man Need?" and The Death of Ivan Ilyich. [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy] (The essay mentioned in the first line is Elif Batuman's "The Murder of Leo Tolstoy," which is included as a chapter in The Possessed.)
  - An essay that unusually proposes that this author was murdered discusses his 17-act play The Living Corpse.
  - In a story by this author, a man walks in circles before yelling "I'm coming!" and lies on his servant to save him from freezing in a snowstorm.
  - In another story by this author, a hermit cuts off his finger to resist temptation.
  - George Saunders's A Swim in a Pond in the Rain ends by discussing a story by this author, whose title character dies while clearing snow off a roof and is named for the crockery that he breaks as a child.
  - This author of "Master and Man" wrote a story whose title character hears the words, "It is finished" and screams for three days.
  - In that novella by this author of "Alyosha the Pot," a judge dies after hanging curtains.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Death of Ivan Ilyich. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
  - This theologian used the folktale of a man hanging on a branch over a well containing a dragon to analyze four different approaches to life's suffering.
  - Guy de Maupaussant's (gee day muh-pah-sahnt) writings of "vain wrath" appear in a book by this thinker in which he concludes that no Christian nation can go to war.
  - Though he is not Thomas Jefferson, this Christian described removing all sections of the Gospels except the Sermon on the Mount in his essay What I Believe.
  - This theologian donated the profits from one of this books to the Doukhobors (doo-koh-boors), and was excommunicated from the Orthodox church by Konstantin Pobedonostsev (poh-beh-duh-nohst-ev).
  - Mahatma Gandhi named his agrarian farm after this thinker, who introduced nonviolence to Gandhi in A Letter to a Hindu.
  - For 10 points, name the philosopher of Christian anarchism from Russia who wrote The Kingdom of God Is Within You as well as fiction such as The Death of Ivan Ilyich. [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [accept Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
  - The protagonist of one story by this author forsakes his lover after seeing her father punish a soldier, and one of this author's title characters cuts off his own finger to avoid being seduced.
  - In another work by this author of 'After the Ball', the protagonist refuses to run after his wife's lover in his socks after committing a crime blamed on the harmful power of 'carnal love'.
  - The title character of one of this author's novellas has his servant hold his legs above his shoulders and screams for three days.
  - Pozdnyzhev's wife has an affair with a violinist in one work by this author, and in another the title character is cared for by Gerasim after injuring himself hanging up curtains.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of The Kreutzer Sonata and The Death of Ivan Ilyich. [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Tolstoy [accept Natalia Tolstaya, Nikolai Tolstoy, or Leo Tolstoy]
  - In a novel by an author with this surname, the protagonist is disgusted by the sour cream his wife uses as makeup and is startled by the clawed feet of his father-in-law, who also has light-emitting eyes.
  - An author with this surname wrote a novel in which Mars' melting polar ice caps threaten a race that originated from Atlantis.
  - An author with this surname wrote a novel in which Benedikt, whose only mutation is his tail, uses his job as a Saniturion as an excuse to transcribe "Oldenprint" books that survived an apocalypse called "The Blast." In a novel by an author with this surname, the protagonist uses numerology to determine that he is destined to kill the Antichrist, whom he identifies as an invading general.
  - The authors of The Slynx and Aelita are related to an author of this surname who railed against the Great Man theory of history in the epilogue of a novel whose protagonist loves Natasha Rostov.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author who wrote about Pierre Bezukhov in War and Peace. [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: epilogues by Leo Tolstoy [prompt on essays by Leo Tolstoy; prompt on novels by Leo Tolstoy by asking "What part of the novel?"]
  - One of these works by this author ends with a metaphor about how sailors navigating far from shore have to rely on the compass and the "unattainable luminaries." One of these works by this author describes three different people attributing the movement of a locomotive to the devil, the wheels turning, and the smoke being blown by the wind, respectively. [PWR]
  - One of these works repeatedly says "I assume that this is not good" in reference to various types of sexual vices.
  - Despite having thirteen (*) children, this author wrote one of these works advocating complete chastity.
  - One of these works by this author argues that "the movement of the nations" is caused by the collective activity of the people, contra the Great Man theory of history.
  - For 10 points, identify these essays appended to the end of The Kreutzer Sonata and War and Peace. [GIVE]

[T12] 2018 RAPTURE (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
  - This writer described seeing a monk selling popular religious tracts to an old peasant but refusing to sell a vernacular copy of the Gospels. [PWR]
  - In the same text, this writer claimed that the hypocrisy of current society exceeds the hypocrisy of the Pharisees because people today allow themselves to be protected by armed policemen. [PWR]
  - A red thistle which lost its beauty when plucked is compared to a Muslim (*) freedom fighter in a story by this writer. [PWR]
  - This author created a character who regains his faith after a lightning storm threatens his family and a peasant named Fyodor talks to him.
  - Another character created by this author argues with her lover Vronsky and then throws herself under a train.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Kingdom of God is Within You, Hadji Murad, and Anna Karenina. [GIVE]

[T13] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
  - The alternate ending for one novella by this man changes a self-inflicted gunshot to one aimed at the protagonist's mistress. [PWR]
  - After dancing with that mistress at a village festival in that novella, Eugene calls her the title word, accusing her of "possessing" him against his will. [PWR]
  - In another of this author's novellas, a character elbows his wife in the face, strangles, and stabs her before entering his study to commit suicide, but instead ends up falling asleep for two hours.
  - This author wrote of the peasant girl (*) Stepanida's allure in The Devil and created the violinist Troukhatchevsky who hides under a piano while trying to escape the insanely jealous Pozdnyshev. [PWR]
  - In another novella by this author, Gerasim tends to the title character, who suffers a terminal illness after falling while trying to hang curtains.
  - For 10 points name this author of the Kreutzer Sonata and the Death of Ivan Ilyich. [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]
  - A 1975 Colin Radford essay titled for one of this thinker's creations uses the example of a friend re-enacting the death of a Viet Cong to ask "how can we be moved by" that creation's "fate?" . [PWR]
  - In his major work of aesthetics, this philosopher attacks Wagner's Siegfried as a "model work of counterfeit art so gross as to be even ridiculous", praising instead Uncle Tom's Cabin and Millet's painting The Man with the Hoe for "communicating the feeling of brotherhood and sisterhood" to all man. [PWR]
  - This author of What is Art? developed a notion of "bread labor" in the 1880s, holding that no class must serve one another. [PWR]
  - This author maintained a correspondence with (*) Gandhi, who read this philosopher's treatise praising the Sermon on the Mount and advocating nonviolence. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of the polemical The Kingdom of God is Within You, who later dismissed his philosophical novels, such as The Kreutzer Sonata, as bad art. [GIVE]

[T15] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Tolstoy]
  - This non-Gandhi thinker argued that the only principle that could free Indians from colonial rule is love in A Letter to a Hindu. [PWR]
  - This thinker organized a Russian translation of the work of Henry George, whose influence can be seen in a book he serialized in the magazine Niva to procure funds for the emigration of the Doukhobors. [PWR]
  - Many of this thinker's ideas about Christian anarchism are collected in (*) The Kingdom of God is Within You.
  - This author followed the redemption of the young man Dmitri Nekhlyudov [nekh-LYOO-doff] in the novel Resurrection.
  - He included substantial French dialogue in a novel whose character Andrei Bolkonsky fights Napoleon's invasion of Russia.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian nobleman, the author of War and Peace. [GIVE]

[T16] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy] 2
  - A character created by this author buys a copy of The Lives of the Saints with money earned making boots.
  - That character refuses to reveal who he saw digging an escape tunnel, even though the digger was responsible for planting a bloody dagger in his bag and framing him for murder years earlier.
  - A character created by this author cuts off his own finger in order to thwart the seductive efforts of Makovkina, who joins a convent in response.
  - Another of this man's characters falls to his death while clearing snow from a roof, shortly after his father prevents him from marrying the cook Ustinya.
  - This author of "God Sees the Truth, But Waits" and "Father Sergius" wrote a story in which a prophetic dream is confirmed when, despite barely making it back to the Bashkirs by sunset, Pahom collapses and dies, after which his servant buries him under six feet of earth.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Alyosha the Pot" and "How Much Land Does a Man Need?". [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Leo Tolstoy
  - This author wrote a story in which a sinner is denied entrance to heaven by Peter and David, but finally allowed in by John. [PWR]
  - Another story by this author tells of the title character's inability to marry Ustinja because of his father. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of another story by this author accepts a deal from the Bashkirs and tries to mark out a large area with a spade in one day but ends up (*) dying from exhaustion and is buried in a six-foot-long grave. [PWR]
  - This man wrote about a child who is sent to be a servant after he breaks the title object to earn his nickname.
  - This author of the short stories "Alyosha the Pot" and "How Much Land Does a Man Need" as well as the "Sevastopol Sketches" also wrote a novella in which the title judge falls off a ladder, fatally injuring himself.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author of "The Death of Ivan Ilyich" and War and Peace. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novella's title character ponders the syllogism "Caius is a man, men are mortal, therefore Caius is mortal." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Death of Ivan Ilyich [or Smert' Ivana Ilyicha]):
    Name this novella, which opens with men playing bridge at a funeral. In this novella, a servant stands for hours holding up the title judge's legs after he falls while hanging curtains.
  Part 2 (ans: Konstantin Levin [or Konstantin Levin or Konstantin Dmitrich "Kostya" Levin; accept "Dmitrievich" in place of "Dmitrich"]):
    This character from another novel fears death after watching his brother Nikolai succumb to tuberculosis, which also killed the author's real-life brother. This character, who mirrors his author's returns to faith, realizes that he loves his son after watching lightning strike an oak tree.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    This author of The Death of Ivan Ilyich and Anna Karenina himself died of pneumonia at a train station.

[B2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Prince Dmitri Dolgukurov appealed to Nasr al-Din Shah to have this person released from the infamous "Black Pit." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bahaʼu'llah ("bah-hah-OO-lah") [or Mirza Husayn-ʻAli Nuri; reject "The Bab ("Bob")"]):
    Name this man, who was imprisoned there after two of his followers attempted to assassinate Shah with birdshot. This man's follower Mirza Yahya grew to dislike him as they wandered the Middle East while in exile.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy; accept Tolstoy Farm]):
    This Russian author became enamored with Baha'i after watching Isabella Grinevskaya's play about the Bab. This author's tracts on non-violent resistance were said to have inspired Mahatma Gandhi, who named a farming commune in South Africa after him.
  Part 3 (ans: Turkmenistan [or Turkmenia]):
    In the 1920s, the Baha'i set up its first temple in this present-day country, though it would be destroyed in a catastrophic 1948 earthquake. The Karakum Canal irrigated huge swaths of cotton grown in this country.

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by Paul Feval, real-life author Anne Radcliffe joins a vampire hunter's quest that ends with them being saved by a hero of this conflict, who literally rides in on a white horse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Napoleonic Wars [accept French invasion of Russia or Napoleon's invasion of Russia or Patriotic War of 1812 or War of the Seventh Coalition]):
    Name this conflict. In another novel, Helene's husband becomes obsessed with assassinating a leader in this conflict, whom he calls the Antichrist.
  Part 2 (ans: Tolstoy family [accept Leo Tolstoy or Alexei Tolstoy]):
    A member of this family depicted the Marquis d'Urfe's escape from a group of vampires in The Family of the Vourdalak. Another member of this family described the Napoleon-obsessed Pierre Bezukhov in War and Peace.
  Part 3 (ans:  The Master and Margarita [or Master i Margarita]):
    In this novel, the red-haired vampire Hella kisses a theater administrator who becomes a vampire, and later serves as a maidservant for one of this novel's protagonists.

[B4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet of this era named a literary society for the town of Arzamas after his "archaist" opponents wrote of him drunkenly raving at an inn there. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Golden Age [or Golden Age of Russian Poetry or Zolotoy vek russkoy poezii; prompt on the Age of Pushkin or Poety pushkinskoy pory or similar answers]):
    Name this era of Russian poetry bookended by Vasily Zhukovsky and Mikhail Lermontov. The later era of Alexander Blok and Anna Akhmatova was named in contrast to this era.
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Bunina [or Anna Petrovna Bunina] (The 20th-century author is Ivan Bunin.)):
    The Arzamasians attacked the Golden Age's precursors, like this poet who defended singing of "mighty men" in "Conversations Between Me and the Women." A later author from this poet's family wrote the anti-Bolshevik diary Cursed Days.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    At an inn in Arzamas, this later person had a crisis that Maxim Gorky called the "Arzamas horror." Gorky compared God and this owner of the estate Yasnaya Polyana to "two bears in one den."

[B5] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A soldier participates in this activity in order to marry the title character of the poem The Tambov Treasurer's Wife by Mikhail Lermontov. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gamble [accept playing cards; accept roulette] (The other novel is The Gambler by Fyodor Dostoyevsky.)):
    Name this activity. At the end of one novel, Alexei Ivanovich decides to participate in this activity before leaving for Switzerland to find Polina.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Fyodor Dolokhov gambles away 40,000 rubles after proposing to Sonya in this author's novel War and Peace.
  Part 3 (ans: Dead Souls [or Mjortvyje dushi] (by Nikolai Gogol)):
    While playing checkers with the cheating Nozdryov, the protagonist of this novel, Chichikov, refuses to gamble with his list of names.

[B6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ilya Kaminsky's poem "Musica Humana" recalls how when one of this poet's students complained about not being published, this poet threw him down the stairs and shouted, "Was Sappho? Was Jesus Christ?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Osip Mandelstam [or Osip Emilyevich Mandelstam]):
    Name this poet who was arrested for writing a poem about a figure "Ringed with a scum of chicken-necked bosses" who has "ten thick worms his fingers, / his words like measures of weight."
  Part 2 (ans: Tolstoy [accept Alexei Tolstoy; accept Leo Tolstoy]):
    Mandelstam's wife initially hoped that he had been arrested not for writing the "Stalin Epigram" but for slapping a writer with this surname. That writer's distant relative with this surname wrote War and Peace.
  Part 3 (ans: Futurism [accept Russian Futurism]):
    The more famous Tolstoy is one of the writers decried in this movement's manifesto "A Slap in the Face of Public Taste." Mandelstam opposed this literary movement of Vladimir Mayakovsky and Victor Khlebnikov.

[B7] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about card games in Russian short fiction, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Pushkin [or Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin]):
    This author created the gambler Hermann, who loses everything after betting on the title card in "The Queen of Spades." This 19th-century author also wrote Eugene Onegin.
  Part 2 (ans:  The Death of Ivan Ilyich [or Smert' Ivana Ilyicha] (by Leo Tolstoy)):
    Schwartz is keen to play cards in this novella's opening chapter, which depicts several friends at a funeral. This novella's title character forms a bond with the servant Gerasim ("gyeh-ruh-SEEM"), who holds his legs during a terminal illness.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Leskov [or Nikolai Semyonovich Leskov] (The story is "The Tale of Cross-eyed Lefty from Tula and the Steel Flea.")):
    The loss of possessions in card games is a recurring motif in this author's story "The Enchanted Wanderer." In another story by this author, a craftsman tries to improve a dancing clockwork insect made by English craftsmen.

[B8] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: A work by this thinker recounts a dream of being supported by a loop suspended from a pillar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Name this thinker who compared the inevitable approach of death to a dragon in a well in a work about his return to Christianity titled A Confession, which is sometimes published with The Spirit of Christ's Teaching.
  Part 2 (ans: Epicureanism [accept Epicurus's school]):
    In A Confession, one way Tolstoy sees of handling the hopelessness of life is to adopt this Ancient Greek school of thought, which taught that pleasure and the avoidance of suffering were the highest goods.
  Part 3 (ans: Immanuel Kant):
    Tolstoy credits this philosopher with showing that the existence of God can not be proven. This deviser of a "moral argument" for God claimed that "existence is not a predicate" in response to the ontological argument and wrote Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone.

[B9] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was excommunicated for a novel in which Dmitri pursues the marriage of Katusha after the latter is sentenced to a labor camp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Name this author of Resurrection and "God Sees the Truth, but Waits." His other religious works include The Kingdom of God Is Within You.
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Karenina):
    Tolstoy also wrote this novel, which focuses on the affair between the title character and Count Vronsky.
  Part 3 (ans: Stiva Arkadyevich Oblonsky [or Stepan Arkadyevich Oblonsky; prompt on Oblonsky]):
    Anna's brother is this character, who continually cheats on his wife Dolly and plays matchmaker for Levin and Kitty.

[B10] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This man grows cynical when he sees his sister-in-law's children melt raspberries over a candle and squirt milk at each other, which he analogizes to spoiled philosophers who spend their time theorizing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Konstantin Dmitrievich Levin [or Konstantin Levin; or Kostya]):
    Name this man who has a spiritual awakening when his wife and son survive a lightning storm in a forest. In the novel's final paragraph, this man resolves that, though his life remains as before, "it has the positive meaning of goodness, which I have the power to put into it."
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Karenina (by Leo Tolstoy)):
    Because of his spirituality and politics, Levin is often viewed as a stand-in for the author of this novel. This novel's protagonist throws herself in front of a train after a feud with Vronsky.
  Part 3 (ans: proposing marriage [accept equivalents like asking someone to marry him; accept getting engaged; prompt on having a conversation or similar answers]):
    Among the biggest authorial insertions is a scene in which Levin, like Tolstoy himself, performs this action by writing the first letters of a series of words on a chalk table.

[B11] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about dreams in Russian literature, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i nakazaniye]):
    Mikolka beats a horse to death with a crowbar during a dream in this novel, which begins with the murder of a pawnbroker by Raskolnikov.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Ilych Oblomov):
    In the first part of a novel by Ivan Goncharov, this extremely lazy title character has a long dream about his effortless childhood. This character is rebuked by Olga for delaying their wedding, after which she marries his friend Stoltz instead.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    In this author's short story "How Much Land Does a Man Need?" Pahom has a dream in which he imagines himself lying dead next to the Devil. Pozdnyshev kills his wife after she cheats on him with a violinist in another work by this author.

[B12] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's author dreams that he had replaced the name on his sister's headstone with his own name in Rachel Corbett's book titled for a line from this poem about his relationship with Auguste Rodin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Archaic Torso of Apollo" [or "Archaischer Torso Apollos"]):
    Name this poem that remarks, "we cannot know" the "legendary head" of an object "with eyes like ripening fruit." Rachel Corbett's book titled for a line from this poem is the semi-fictional biography You Must Change Your Life.
  Part 2 (ans: Lou Andreas-Salome [or Louise von Salome]):
    Corbett's book also details Rainer Maria Rilke's formative relationship with this female psychoanalyst, who had previously engaged in an intellectual relationship with Paul Ree and Friedrich Nietzsche.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    You Must Change Your Life recounts two disastrous meetings between Rilke, Andreas-Salome, and this author, who spent most of those meetings berating their writing. This author wrote Anna Karenina and War and Peace.

[B13] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: One of these items from J. L. Austin's "A Plea For Excuses" differentiates between shooting a donkey "by mistake" and "by accident." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: footnotes [prompt on notes]):
    Alfred North Whitehead claimed that Western philosophy "consists of a series of" what items to Plato? Unlike their "end" counterparts, these addendums common in academic papers are printed at the bottom of the page.
  Part 2 (ans: Russia (Those thinkers are Nikolai Berdyaev and Leo Tolstoy.)):
    A thinker from this country used the infamous footnote "This was once revealed to me in a dream." Another thinker from this country argued that the "religious perception" of an age determines aesthetic value in What is Art?
  Part 3 (ans: "What Is It Like to Be a Bat?"):
    The author imagines a "tiny image" of the Mona Lisa in his brain in a footnote of this essay, whose footnote 11 is an influential reply to Kripke. This Thomas Nagel essay discusses consciousness and the mind-body problem.

[B14] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's relationship with Susan Sontag inspired her to begin writing plays, starting with La Viuda - or The Widow - which was never translated into English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maria Irene Fornes):
    Name this Cuban-American playwright, who depicted Julio, Mark, and Fernando as three lovers of the title girl in her play Sarita. Her play Fefu and Her Friends has been hailed as a major piece of feminist theater.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Another Cuban-American playwright, Nilo Cruz, won the 2003 Pulitzer Prize for Drama for his play Anna in the Tropics. In that play, a lector reads to factory workers from this Russian author's novel Anna Karenina.
  Part 3 (ans: Alejo Carpentier ("ah-LAY-ho car-pen-tee-AIR") (That novel is The Kingdom of this World.)):
    Although he was a notable drama critic for Havana publications, this Cuban author of The Lost Steps is better known for his novels, such as one in which Ti Noel recounts the Haitian Revolution.

[B15] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about authors who love to include themselves in their novels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Karl Ove Knausgard):
    From 2009 to 2011, this Norwegian author wrote a series of six autobiographical novels called My Struggle, often not censoring details of the private lives of his friends and family. The 6th book of this author's series includes a lengthy essay on Adolf Hitler.
  Part 2 (ans: Orhan Pamuk):
    Ka's letters to Ipek in Snow are found by this Turkish author, who also wrote Museum of Innocence as well as Snow itself.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy):
    Childhood, Boyhood, and Youth comprise this author's autobiographical trilogy about a young boy named Nikolina. The Kingdom of God Is Within You is an expression of this author's religion-based principle of nonviolence.

[B16] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Early followers of this man's teachings often met in vegetarian restaurants, and their anarchist commune at Stapleton in Yorkshire has survived since the 1890s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Name this writer whose works were edited and disseminated in Britain by Vladimir Chertkov. His turn to religion was laid out in the book A Confession.
  Part 2 (ans: The Kingdom of God is Within You [or Tsarstvo Bozhiye vnutri vas]):
    One of the most influential books for the Tolstoyan movement was this book, banned in Russia, in which he described how a new society could be created around the teachings of Jesus. Its title quotes Luke 17:21.
  Part 3 (ans: Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas (Karamchand) Gandhi]):
    In The Story of My Experiments with Truth, this man named The Kingdom of God is Within You as one of the three most important books in his life. He founded a commune named Tolstoy Farm while working in South Africa and used it as the headquarters for his satyagraha movement.

[B17] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Santiago tells his wife that he sees "a line of little ants carrying breadcrumbs on their backs," but the crumbs they are taking are his "dignity." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna in the Tropics):
    Name this play. Juan Julian is shot in this play as he reads, in Spanish, the line "what logic can there be in killing a man to regain harmony with a woman..." as part of his job as a lector in a cigar factory.
  Part 2 (ans: Cuban-American [prompt on American, Latino, Hispanic] [The novel is The Mambo Kings play Songs of Love.]):
    Anna in the Tropics is by Nilo Cruz, an author of this ethnicity. Cesar and Nestor Castillo perform on I Love Lucy in a novel by Oscar Hijuelos, another author of this ethnicity.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy):
    In Anna in the Tropics, the lector Juan Julian reads the cigar factory workers Anna Karenina, a novel by this Russian author of War and Peace.

[B18] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: An intellectual Jew named Lyutov attempts to fit in with Cossack soldiers by killing the title animal in this author's story "My First Goose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isaac (Emmanuilovich) Babel):
    Name this author, who wrote about the gangster Benya Krik in his Odessa Stories. His experiences in the Soviet-Polish War inspired his collection Red Cavalry.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor (Borisovich) Shklovsky):
    According to this critic, Babel used the same tone to write about the "stars above and gonorrhea." In his essay "Art as Technique," this formalist described how artistic language makes ordinary objects seem strange, a process he called "defamiliarization."
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Shklovsky's "Art as Technique" explains defamiliarization using this Russian author's story "Kholstomer," which is told from the point of view of a horse. His other stories include "Master and Man" and "Father Sergius."

[B19] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a Richard Lovelace poem declares "I could not love thee more, dear, loved I not honour more" on the subject of going to this kind of event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: war):
    Identify this kind of event. A Stephen Crane poem states "Do not weep, maiden" for this is kind.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai):
    War and War is a novel by this Hungarian author who wrote about a circus visiting a town with the carcass of a giant whale in The Melancholy of Resistance. Bela Tarr made a 7-hour film adaptation of this author's Satantango.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy):
    War and Peace is a novel by this Russian author of The Death of Ivan Ilyich and Anna Karenina.

[B20] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's story "Gusev" is based on a real-life burial at sea that he witnessed during a journey to Sakhalin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anton Chekhov (The other story is "Lady with a Dog.")):
    Name this author who also used a seaside setting to open a story in which a misogynistic man befriends the wife of the nobleman Von Diderits.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Tolstoy):
    This author's short story "The Three Hermits" depicts three pilgrims and a bishop traveling by sea to Archangel. This author's works of short fiction include The Death of Ivan Ilyich.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Gentleman from San Francisco" [or Gospodin iz San-Frantsisko] (by Ivan Bunin)):
    This Russian short story describes the exploits of Tiberius on the island of Capri while briefly digressing from narrating a journey on the cruise liner Atlantis by an unnamed American robber baron.

[B21] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Attendees of a funeral procession take out machine guns from coffins and start mowing down anti-Semitic thugs, in a story titled for "How Things Were Done" in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Odessa (Those are Isaac Babel's Odessa Tales.)):
    Identify this city, the setting of a 1931 short story collection in which several Jewish gangsters slaughter a rich merchant's cows and torch a police station.
  Part 2 (ans: Teffi [or Nadezhda Alexandrovna Lokhvitskaya; or Nadezhda Alexandrovna Buchinskaya]):
    This pseudonymous Russian satirist described how she and other wealthy refugees fleeing the Bolsheviks were forced to haul their own coal aboard a steamer departing Odessa, in an episode of her autobiography Memories: From Moscow to the Black Sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    At the age of thirteen, Teffi visited this elderly author, who had brought a different war-torn Ukrainian city to life in his Sevastopol Sketches, to beg him not to kill off his character Prince Andrei Bolkonsky.

[B22] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: When this character's love interest accepts his marriage proposal, he becomes so absurdly, deliriously happy, that he wanders the winter streets without a coat, neglects to sleep or eat for days, and finally oafishly arrives late to his own wedding after forgetting to clean his shirt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Konstantin Dmitrich Levin [any of these three names is fine, but reveal the answer as Levin if it's missed]):
    Name this character who had earlier devoted himself to farming his property after being initially rejected by Kitty.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Levin is an autobiographical portrait of this Russian author, who made him the co-protagonist of his novel Anna Karenina.
  Part 3 (ans: King Lear):
    Later in the novel, Levin attends a disappointing orchestral adaptation of this play in a scene that expresses Tolstoy's own distaste for this play's "mirthless jokes" and "coldly pompous, artificial ravings."

[B23] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: In response to a literary scandal over this hypothetical person, an author wrote a New York Times editorial stating that Thomas Mofolo's novel Chaka was "a profoundly, unbearably tragic book about a tribal Achilles who had with his own hands cut down thousands of people, including his own pregnant wife." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tolstoy of the Zulus [accept any answer mentioning Leo Tolstoy or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy and Zulu people or amaZulu]):
    What hypothetical person was allegedly invoked along with the "Proust of the Papuans" in an interview given by an author critical of multiculturalism?
  Part 2 (ans: Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]):
    This author caused a stir by asking "who is the Tolstoy of the Zulus? I'd be happy to read him." His own novels include The Adventures of Augie March and Herzog.
  Part 3 (ans: Melville Herskovits [or Melville Jean Herskovits]):
    Bellow's New York Times editorial stated that he was familiar with Zulu literature after studying under this author of The Myth of the Negro Past at Northwestern.

[B24] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This work is comprised of three episodes set in the title city, the first in December, the second in May, the third in August. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sebastopol Sketches [or Sebastopol Stories or Sevastopolskiye rasskazy or Sevastopol]):
    Name this book, whose first part is a tour of a city in wartime told through the second person, and whose last part follows the lives and deaths of the brothers Mikhail and Vladamir Kozeltsov.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo Nikolayevich Tolstoy [or Leo Tolstoy]):
    The Sebastopol Sketches were written by this second lieutenant in the Russian artillery in the Crimean War, who would later become famous for novels like War and Peace.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Borodino [accept Battle of the Moskva River]):
    In War and Peace, Pierre joins a Russian artillery crew to observe this battle, a bloody draw with the French that Tolstoy casts as a moral victory, because Russia took a stand against the invaders.

[B25] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Cleanth Brooks and Robert Penn Warren co-edited a standard textbook titled for Understanding this subject. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: poetry [do not accept or prompt on any other answer]):
    Name this subject that titles a poem that says it contains "a place for the genuine." That poem hopes that this subject's creations should be "imaginary gardens with real toads in them" and notes that "there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle."
  Part 2 (ans: imagination [accept "literalists of the imagination"]):
    Marianne Moore's "Poetry" calls some types of poets "literalists of" this faculty, borrowing a phrase that W. B. Yeats used to criticize William Blake. Samuel Taylor Coleridge contrasted this creative faculty with "fancy."
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy [or Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    Moore's poem takes a quote from this author's diaries expressing prejudice against "business documents and school-books." This author quipped that all happy families were alike in his Anna Karenina.
