=== STOCK CLUES: Hiroshige ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige; prompt on Utagawa] (The parody in the second line is by Utagawa Kuniyoshi.)
  - A work by this artist has the right side dominated by a horse's backside, while the left depicts a brothel in the background. [PWR]
  - This artist was parodied by another artist in the same school, who used cats to suggest punny names. [PWR]
  - A work by this artist depicts three people struggling to walk in front of a snowy mountainous village. [PWR]
  - A work originally by this artist features a prominent horizontal branch and red hue, which inspired elements in Paul Gauguin's Vision After the Sermon and was copied by (*) Vincent Van Gogh, and is a depiction of a plum tree park. [PWR]
  - This artist uses many thin, slanted, black lines to represent a sudden rain over a bridge, part of the woodblock prints in One Hundred Famous Views of Edo.
  - For 10 points, name this ukiyo-e master of the Utagawa school, who created the The Fifty-Three Stations of the Tokaido. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige]
  - A work by this artist originally had six fish sellers and two dogs in the foreground, but a much larger crowd was added to the foreground for the second edition. [PWR]
  - In another work by this artist, people on a wooden bridge run for cover during a sudden shower, which is represented by black lines covering the canvas. [PWR]
  - Vincent Van Gogh made a copy of that work, which was part of a (*) series finished after this artist's death by his student, who adopted his name. [PWR]
  - A series by this artist depicts various locations on one of the Five Routes.
  - Like Hokusai, this member of the Utagawa school painted Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji.
  - For 10 points, name this ukiyo-e artist of The Fifty-Three Stations of the Tokaido. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ando Hiroshige [or Utagawa Hiroshige; accept names in either order]
  - Small orange figures dot both shores of a work by him depicting the fording of a large river. [PWR]
  - A servant stands bare-backed, having taken off his yellow jacket to cover his master, in a work by him showing men struggling uphill in the rain on the left, while a man with yellow umbrella is blown downhill on the right. [PWR]
  - An eagle's head and forewings dominate the top of a work by him depicting a 100,000-acre snow-covered plain.
  - Waterfalls cascade on the left of a work by him that shows two blue islands flanking the title aquatic phenomena; that is his (*) Views of the Whirpools at Awa. [PWR]
  - Two series of his begin with prints of crowd scenes at Nihonbashi Bridge, and he was a inspired by a predecessor's thirty-six-part series about a certain mountain to create a series of his own.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of Fifty-Three Stations of the Tokaido, the last great ukiyo-e artist of the generation succeeding Hokusai. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: These people were depicted as exaggerated caricatures with large heads, crossed eyes, and grimaced frowns in prints by Sharaku. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kabuki actors [or actresses; accept onnagatas or oyamas]):
    Name these people who were the focus of prints called yakusha-e ("YAHK-sha-eh"). The Torii school specialized in depictions of these people, who were the most popular subjects of ukiyo-e ("oo-kee-yo-EH") prints alongside bijin, or "beauties."
  Part 2 (ans: Utagawa [accept Utagawa school; accept Utagawa Kuniyoshi or Utagawa Hiroshige]):
    Toyokuni I ("the first") pivoted a school named for this surname to focus on actor prints after the death of its founder, Toyoharu. This surname was taken by the artist Kuniyoshi and the artist of The Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido.
  Part 3 (ans: Mount Fuji [or Fugaku or Fuji-san]):
    Hiroshige, who made actor prints as a young member of the Utagawa school, later shifted to landscapes like his "Thirty-six Views of" this landmark. Hokusai's series of the same name includes The Great Wave off Kanagawa.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's drawings were often praised by a mentor who called out her name from across their shared workshop For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Katsushika Oi [accept: Ei or Ei-jo]):
    Name this artist who showed shadowy figures outside a brothel in Yoshiwara at Night. This artist of "Operating on Guan Yu's Arm" often assisted her father with several works.
  Part 2 (ans: Mount Fuji):
    Oi depicted this location "through a bamboo forest" in another work. This location can also be seen in the background of her father's Great Wave off Kanagawa.
  Part 3 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige):
    Oi's work was displayed in a 2023 exhibition alongside Hokusai and this fellow artist, who painted trees in bloom in his work Plum Park in Kameido. That painting was part of his series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo.

[B3] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The foreground of an unusually portrait-oriented print by this painter shows the abstracted branches of a tree nicknamed "Sleeping Dragon". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Utagawa  Hiroshige ("HIH-roh-SHE-gay") [or Ando  Hiroshige ]):
    Name this painter, who included that work, Plum Park in Kameido ("cam-EYE-doh"), in his series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo .
  Part 2 (ans: Vincent  van Gogh):
    Hiroshige's painting of plum trees was one of the Japanese artworks copied by this Dutch painter, who was infiuenced by Japanese art in his designs for his Yellow House at Arles ("arl").
  Part 3 (ans: folding  screen s [or hinged  screen s or winged  screen s or  byobu ]):
    Other Japanese artworks depicting plum trees include Red and White Plum Blossoms , which Ogata Korin painted to decorate one of these objects. They were decorated similarly to the related fusuma .

[B4] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Huang Quan, who painted a scroll of "rare" examples of these subjects, is considered one the Song dynasty's founding masters of an artistic genre partly named for them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: birds [accept bird-and-flower painting, or huaniao-hua, or kacho-ga; accept avians or Aves for birds]):
    Identify these subjects which, along with flowers, name a genre of East Asian painting focused on minute naturalistic details, as contrasted with expansive "rivers-and-mountains" landscapes.
  Part 2 (ans: Emperor Huizong [or Zhao Ji; prompt on Zhao]):
    Among the masters of bird-and-flower painting was this Song emperor, whose works in the genre include Five-Colored Parakeet. This emperor is credited with inventing the "slender gold" calligraphy style.
  Part 3 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige; prompt on Utagawa]):
    This Japanese artist produced hundreds of bird-and-flower prints in the 1830s, along with similar prints such as Yellow Rose and Frogs. He's best known for his landscape series Fifty-Three Stations of the Tokaido.

[B5] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Vincent Van Gogh copied this artist's paintings from the One Hundred Famous Views of Edo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige):
    Name this landscape artist of The 53 Stations of the Tokaido that details the protagonist's journey from Edo and Kyoto on the Tokaido road.
  Part 2 (ans: Japan [or Nippon]):
    Hiroshige is from this country. This country is the origin of ukiyo-e woodblocks and paintings whose name translates to the "floating world".
  Part 3 (ans: blue [accept Prussian blue]):
    The technique of bokashi is often used to generate the shades of this non-red color, commonly found at the top and bottom of ukiyo-e, whose most common pigment at the time was named for Prussia.

[B6] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a letter to to Paul Gauguin ("go-GAN"), this artist told a story about riding from Paris to Provence and wondering "if [the countryside] was like Japan yet!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vincent van Gogh):
    Name this artist whose namesake museum in Amsterdam hosted a 2018 exhibit on him "and Japan." His other works include Wheatfield with Crows and The Starry Night.
  Part 2 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige ("hee-ro-SHEEN-geh") [or Ando Hiroshige]):
    Van Gogh modeled his Bridge in the Rain after the style of this ukiyo-e ("oo-kee-yo-EH") artist of The Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido and the One Hundred Famous Views of Edo.
  Part 3 (ans: Theo van Gogh [prompt on Vincent van Gogh's brother]):
    Vincent organized a sale of Japanese prints in Montmartre while living with this man. This man was an art dealer, but nonetheless only managed to sell one of Vincent's paintings during his life.

[B7] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's prints include one called Fine Wind, Clear Morning and another that depicts the title object through the opening of a barrel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Katsushika Hokusai [accept names in either order]):
    Name this artist who depicted a woman having sex with octopuses in The Dream of the Fisherman's Wife. His namesake Manga consists of sketches of everyday scenes.
  Part 2 (ans: waves [accept The Great Wave off Kanagawa; or The Great Wave; accept Masculine Wave or Feminine Wave; accept tsunami; accept rogue wave; prompt on sea or ocean]):
    A print from Hokusai's 36 Views of Mt. Fuji uses a mix of indigo and Prussian blue to render a "great" one of these things "off Kanagawa." He also made Masculine and Feminine depictions of these things.
  Part 3 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige; accept names in either order]):
    This artist also created a series of 36 Views of Mt. Fuji, but is better-known for depicting the routes between Edo and Kyoto in his series The 53 Stations of the Tokaido. He was the last master of ukiyo-e ("oo-kee-yo-EH").

[B8] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man wrote the book The Gentle Art of Making Enemies after a lengthy 1878 trial in which he was only awarded one farthing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Abbott McNeill Whistler):
    Name this man, who was accused of "flinging a pot of paint in the public's face" by the critic John Ruskin after the appearance of his Nocturne in Black and Gold.
  Part 2 (ans: his mother [or mom or mama; accept Whistler's Mother]):
    Whistler's other musically-inspired works include his Arrangements series. One of those works is an "arrangement in gray and black" depicting a profile view of Anna, who has this familial relation to Whistler.
  Part 3 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige (hee-ro-SHEEN-geh) [accept names in either order]):
    The thick brushwork in Nocturne in Black and Gold was derived from this Japanese artist. With Keisai Eisen (KAY-sigh AY-sen), this artist created the The Sixty-Nine Stations of the Kiso Kaido series.

[B9] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Masters of this style included Kuniyoshi and Moronobu. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ukiyo-e):
    Name this type of woodblock print, one example of which shows a turbulent sea near the titular Japanese town.
  Part 2 (ans: Katsushika Hokusai):
    This artist famously chased a chicken across a canvas to paint maple leaves. Fine Wind, Clear Morning and The Great Wave off Kanagawa are part of his 36 Views of Mount Fuji.
  Part 3 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige):
    This man included scenes like The Plum Garden in Kameido in his One Hundred Famous Views of Edo. He also depicted Kanagawa as part of his series Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido.

[B10] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This country's 18th-century writers produced works of protest literature such as The Unseemly Silverpiped Swingers and Twin Arts Threshing Device to decry the influence of neo-Confucianism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nippon]):
    Name this country in which the 1791 Kansei Reforms instituted censorship of political satire and books that discussed the "floating world," or ukiyo, culture of the pleasure district in its capital of Edo.
  Part 2 (ans: yellow (Kibyoshi literally means "yellow cover.")):
    Many of the authors censored by the Kansei Reforms, such as Santo Kyoden and Jippensha Ikku, were contributors to the comic book-style genre of kibyoshi ("keeb-YO-shee"), which was characterized by book covers of this color.
  Part 3 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige ("hee-roh-SHEEN-geh")):
    Jippensha Ikku wrote the picaresque novel Hizakurige ("hee-zah-KOO-reen-geh"), whose protagonists journey between Edo and Kyoto on the Tokaido road, which this woodblock artist depicted in a series of 53 prints.

[B11] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one work, this artist depicted Barteil Flatheads in front of a flowering aubergine plant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Utagawa/Ando Hiroshige):
    Name this artist of the series One Hundred Famous Views of Edo, which was completed by his son of the same name.
  Part 2 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    Probably the most notable European exponent of the woodcut was this German Renaissance artist who used the technique for multiple series of Bible illustrations. He also engraved Knight, Death, and the Devil.
  Part 3 (ans: Gwen Mary Raverat):
    This English artist used woodcuts to produce the Six Rivers around London series and the original illustrations for The Cambridge Book of Poetry for Children. She also wrote the memoir Period Piece.

[B12] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A gigantic one of these things pushes aside the shredded walls of a palace to menace Oya no Mitsukuni on the orders of Takiyasha the Witch in a mid-19th century print. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: skeletons):
    Identify these figures shown "warming themselves" and "fighting over the body of a hanged man" in paintings by James Ensor. An army of them ravages the countryside in Bruegel the Elder's The Triumph of Death.
  Part 2 (ans: Utagawa school):
    Takiyasha the Witch and the Skeleton Spectre was created by Kuniyoshi, a member of this school of woodblock print artists. It was founded by Toyoharu, whose uki-e prints employed Western perspective.
  Part 3 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige]):
    This member of the Utagawa school was one of the last great masters of ukiyo-e. He created the massive series Sixty-nine Stations of the Kiso Kaido and Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido.

[B13] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's Night Rain on Karasaki and Evening Glow at Seta are part of his series on Lake Biwa titled Eight Views of Omi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige]):
    Name this Japanese artist, who traveled along a road from Edo to Kyoto to create his series Fifty-Three Stations of the Tokaido.
  Part 2 (ans: Katsushika Hokusai):
    Hiroshige was a master of ukiyo-e, as was this other artist whose Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji include The Great Wave off Kanagawa.
  Part 3 (ans: folding screens):
    Another popular form of Japanese art is found in byobu, which are this type of object. One made in Hikone, an early example of ukiyo-e, is considered a National Treasure of Japan.

[B14] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of this tournament's editors has a poster of this artist's Inlet at Awa Province above his bed. Guess which one! For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Utagawa Hiroshige [or Ando Hiroshige]):
    Name this Edo-period artist, who was famous primarily for landscape series like The Fifty-three Stations of the Tokaido, The Sixty-nine Stations of the Kiso Kaido, and One Hundred Famous Views of Edo.
  Part 2 (ans: ukiyo-e [or ukiyo-ye]):
    Hiroshige and the rest of the Utagawa school produced woodblock prints made in this style, whose Japanese name literally means "pictures of the floating world".
  Part 3 (ans: bijin-ga [prompt on okubi-e]):
    Fellow Utagawa school member Kunisada produced many of these ukiyo-e portraits of beautiful women. Examples include Three Beauties of the Present Age, a work of Kitagawa Utamaro, the leading artist in this genre.
