=== STOCK CLUES: Esquivel ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Laura Esquivel
  - Before having sex, a man in a novel by this author insists to the Lord that "this is not lust or lewdness, but to make a child to serve you." Another novel by this author centers on a telegraph operator who is only "good at communicating and at loving Lucha" named Jubilo Chi. [PWR]
  - This author of Swift as Desire also wrote a novel centering on the romance between Rodrigo Sanchez and the astrologist Azucena Martinez titled The Law of Love. [PWR]
  - The funeral of a woman who dies "sighing out her last (*) flatulent breath" is attended by few guests due to the smell in a novel by this author that features the Native American grandmother Morning Light.
  - This author wrote a novel that begins by urging the reader to place an onion on their head to keep from crying, and whose chapters each feature a different recipe.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican author who created Tita de la Garza in her novel Like Water for Chocolate. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel with this name, a character recalls her grandmother telling her that "if words are not used to water the memory of others... then they are useless" while learning to work with clay. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Malinche [accept Malinche: A Novel or "The Sons of La Malinche"]):
    Give this name that appears in the title of an essay which claims that a person with this name "embodies the open," which is contrasted with the "closed, stoic, impassive" character of a country's indigenous population.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico):
    Those who want this country to open itself are described as the title "Sons of La Malinche" in The Labyrinth of Solitude by an author from this country, Octavio Paz.
  Part 3 (ans: Laura Esquivel [or Laura Beatriz Esquivel Valdes]):
    A historical novel about La Malinche by this Mexican author gives her the name Malinalli. Each chapter begins with a recipe in this author's novel about Tita de la Garza, Like Water for Chocolate.

[B2] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker builds "a funeral, eating the dirt along the way - queen of pica, pilferer of misery feasts" in a poem by this author titled "Self-Portrait as a Chimera." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Natalie Diaz):
    Name this author of the poetry collection When My Brother Was An Aztec, a Mojave-American poet.
  Part 2 (ans: "Sunstone" [or "Piedra de sol"] (by Octavio Paz)):
    The speaker contemplates "resurrection flower, grape of life, / lady of the flute and the lightning-flash" in this poem titled for an Aztec artifact. It begins with the line, "A crystal willow, a poplar of water."
  Part 3 (ans: Laura Esquivel (The novels are Malinche and Like Water For Chocolate.)):
    Mallinalli falls in love with Hernan Cortes after identifying him with the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl in a novel by this author, who ended the 12th "monthly installment" of another novel with a scene in which the ghosts of Tita de la Garza and Pedro set fire to a ranch.

[B3] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this novel pays a priest to bless his son, who is a murderer and a rapist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pedro Paramo):
    Name this novel in which the protagonist searches for his father in the town of Comala after the death of his mother Dolores. The title character of this novel arranges the murder of the father of his childhood love Susana.
  Part 2 (ans: magical realism [or magic realism or el realismo magico]):
    Pedro Paramo is written in a Latin American literary style described by this adjective. In that style of realism described by this adjective, fantastical elements pervade the otherwise ordinary world.
  Part 3 (ans: Laura Esquivel):
    Another early proponent of magical realism was this author, whose most famous novel begins with a recipe for sausage rolls. Mama Elena forbids her youngest daughter Tita from getting married in this author's novel Like Water for Chocolate.
