=== STOCK CLUES: Millay ===
Tossup questions: 21 found, 59 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 18 found, 54 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - This poet's spouse created a bust of Sappho for their farmhouse in upstate New York, which Mary Oliver recalled visiting in the essay "Steepletop." A poem by this author observes that "the rain / is full of ghosts tonight" and notes, "summer sang in me / A little while." This poet commanded the reader to "let geese gabble and hiss" in a poem that considers those who "have heard her massive sandal set on stone." That sonnet by this author imagines the "terrible day, when first the shaft into his vision shone / of light anatomized!" This poet stated "Infinity / Came down and settled over me" in a poem beginning "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood." For 10 points, name this poet of "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare" and "Renascence." [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay [or Nancy Boyd]
  - This poet's work for the War Writers' Board resulted in a series of works known as this poet's "propaganda poems." This poet wrote "I shall die, but / that is all that I shall do for death", in a poem from the perspective of a conscientious objector.
  - This poet said "I am most faithless when I am most true" in a poem asking the reader to "think not I am faithful to a vow." "Clothes of a (*) king's son" are woven by a woman who freezes to death at the end of one of this poet's poems, where a "harp with a woman's head" is a recurring motif.
  - The speaker has forgotten "What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why" in one of this poet's sonnets.
  - For 10 points, name this poet who said her candle "will not last the night" as it "burns at both ends" in the poem "First Fig." [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - This poet compared a village to "the murdered body of a little child" in a long poem memorializing a Nazi massacre in Czechoslovakia.
  - This author of "Murder of Lidice" described a boy who was "happy for half an hour's time" while he sits "A-rock-rock-rocking to a mother-goose rhyme!".
  - This poet described people who are "fortunate" because they "have heard her massive sandal set in stone" in a poem that describes the "terrible day, when first the shaft into his vision shone of light anatomized!" This author of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" and "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare" declared, "It gives a lovely light!" in a poem that begins, "My candle burns at both ends, it will not last the night." For 10 points, name this author who included "First Fig" in the collection A Few Figs from Thistles. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay (The lead-in is "Grown-up" from A Few Figs from Thistles.)
  - In one poem, this author asks, "Was it for this I uttered prayers...That now...I should retire at half-past eight?" The speaker and addressee eat apples and pears in a poem by this author that repeats the line, "We had gone back and forth all night on the ferry." One collection by this author ends with "Four Sonnets," including "I shall forget you presently." In a short poem by this author of "Recuerdo," the speaker mentions (*) "ugly houses" standing on a "solid rock" before asking,"Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand!" This author wrote that "Infinity pressed down upon the finite Me" in a poem that opens with the speaker seeing "three long mountains and a wood." For 10 points, name this author of "Renascence" who wrote "my candle burns at both ends" in her collection A Few Figs from Thistles. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - This poet declared "I loved you Wednesday, -yes-but what / Is that to me?" in the poem "Thursday." In another poem, this poet describes how "summer sang in me / A little while" after noting "the rain is full of ghosts tonight." Another sonnet by this poet describes staring at "intricately drawn nowhere" and hearing the title concept's "massive sandal set on stone." That sonnet commands "Let all who prate of (*) Beauty hold their peace" before remarking "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare." The speaker of another poem by this poet "knew at last / The How and Why of all things" after "Infinity / Came down and settled over" her.
  - That poem begins "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood." For 10 points, name this author of "Renascence," who noted "My candle burns at both ends" in her poem "First Fig." [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - Some critics have suggested that a sonnet by this author that asks "what thing is this / That hastening headlong to a dusty end / Dare turn upon me these proud eyes of bliss?" might be narrated by Mercury because it mentions "My winged helmet and my winged heel." Another sonnet by this author declares that love cannot "clean the blood" or "fill the thickened lung with breath." This poet wrote a sequence of 52 sonnets, one for each week in a year-long affair, in her collection Fatal Interview.
  - This poet wrote a sonnet in which a tree doesn't know "what birds have vanished one by one" but recognizes that its boughs are "more silent than before" and a sonnet that declares, "let geese / Gabble and hiss." For 10 points, name this American poet whose sonnets include "What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why" and "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare." [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St Vincent Millay
  - In one poem, this writer imagines learning from a neighbor's paper on the subway that the addressee had died, and vows to react only by reading "where to store furs and how to treat the hair." Another poem by this writer ends with the prediction, "Now will the god, for blasphemy so brave / punish me, surely, with the shaft I crave!" This poet wrote about an abstraction that "can not fill the thickened lung with breath, nor clean the blood, nor set the fractured bone" in a poem included in Fatal Interview.
  - This poet collected six sonnets with a long poem that controversially only received fourth prize in a contest in The Lyric Year, which opens, "All I could see from where I stood / was three long mountains and a wood." For 10 points, name this poet of "Renascence" and the collection A Few Figs from Thistles, the latter of which contains a poem about a candle burning at both ends. [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - A poem by this author describes a man who was "sweet to meet upon the street" and who "caught the quaint Italian quip she flung him from the gutter." This author of "Macdougal Street" wrote a poem whose speaker feels the hunger of a man "starving in Capri" and notes that "All sin was of my sinning, all atoning mine" after trying to reach the sky.
  - This poet won the Pulitzer for a poem in which the narrator cries himself to sleep the night before Christmas, before receiving "the clothes of a king's son, just my size." A poem this author wrote when she was 19 begins "All I could see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood." "The Ballad of the Harp Weaver" and "Renascence"  are by, for 10 points, what poet who wrote "My candle burns at both ends" in "First Fig"? [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay [or Nancy Boyd]
  - The speaker of one poem by this author warns her lover that she will desert him and "seek another as I sought you first," stating that "I am most faithless when I most am true." In another poem, this author compares herself to a tree that doesn't remember the birds that have perched on it; however, it "knows its boughs" are (+) "more silent than before." The speaker of a poem by this author cries himself to sleep the "night before Christmas" before taking note of a woman who "looked nineteen, and not a day older." The speaker of a different poem by this author notes how she wouldn't sell love for peace after stating that love (*) "is not meat nor drink, nor slumber nor a roof against the rain." One poem by this author ends after the speaker sees a pile of clothes fit for "a king's son" by his mother who froze to death making them. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Ballad of the Harp Weaver" and the collection A Few Figs from Thistles. [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - This author lamented that "you must welcome from another part / Such noble moods as are not mine" in a poem that opens "I know I am but summer to your heart".
  - This author's "Four Sonnets" include two that start "I think I should have loved you presently" and "I shall forget you presently my dear".
  - The entirety of a poem by this author is "Safe upon the solid rock, the ugly houses stand / Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand". [PWR]
  - This author warned that "He whose soul is flat, the sky will cave in on him by and by", and this poet claimed that (*) "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare".
  - This poet wrote that "All I could see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood" in the poem "Renascence".
  - For 10 points, identify this author who wrote that "My candle burns brightly on both ends" in the collection A Few Figs from Thistles. [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - This author mourned "Down, down, down into the darkness of the grave / Gently they go, the beautiful, the tender, the kind" in a poem that ends "I know.
  - But I do not approve.
  - And I am not resigned." This author of "Dirge Without Music" argued that heroes "seek release / from dusty bondage into luminous air" in a poem that celebrates the "holy, terrible day" in which the title character first saw a "vision" of "light anatomized." As a 19-year-old student, this poet became famous for writing a poem that begins "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood." Her poems include "Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare" and "Renascence." For 10 points, name this author whose poem "First Fig" claims "My candle burns at both ends / It will not last the night." [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - In one poem, this author describes how a "man was starving in Capri / He moves his eyes and looked at me" before seeing "two ships that struck and sank" and "every scream tore through my throat." In another poem by this author, the speaker goes into "some quiet place" and says "There is no memory of him here!" before standing "stricken, so remembering him." That poem by this author describes missing a man "in the weeping of the rain" and begins, (*) "Time does not bring relief; you all have lied." A poem by this author that begins "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood" is titled "Renascence." A short poem by this author claims "My candle burns at both ends / It will not last the night." For 10 points, name this poet of "First Fig." [PWR,GIVE]

[T13] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - The last verse paragraph of a longer poem by this author begins, "The world stands out on either side, no wider than the heart is wide".
  - In a poem by this writer, a mother who sings while making a pair of mittens and a little blouse tells her son, "you've need of clothes to cover you, and not a rag have I".
  - The speaker of another poem by this writer sees "three islands in a bay" and traces "the line of the horizon".
  - This poet of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" wrote a poem at the age of 19 that begins, "All I could see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood".
  - In a short poem by her, the speaker says, "My candle burns at both ends, it will not last the night".
  - For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote "Renascence" and "First Fig". [GIVE]

[T14] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - Two girls in a short poem by this author repeat the line "We were very tired, we were very merry" while taking the ferry back home after a night out. [PWR]
  - The speaker of another poem by this author of "Recuerdo" advises a former lover to "make the most of... your little day," because "I shall forget you presently." This author first gained national fame with a poem whose speaker "sank... [PWR]
  - Full six feet below the earth" after being crushed by "infinity" while trying to touch the sky; that poem by this author opens, (*) "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood." This author declares, "My candle burns at both ends; / It will not last the night" in "First Fig." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote the collection A Few Figs From Thistles, as well as the long lyric poem "Renascence." [GIVE]

[T15] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - This author wrote a libretto based on the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle for Deems Taylor's opera The King's Henchman.
  - A "wind with a wolf's head" howls around the door of the central figures, who "were happy / for half an hour's time" while rocking in a chair together, in a poem that won this author a Pulitzer.
  - The sight of a starving man in Capri prompts a passage about how the "awful weight" of "Infinity/Pressed down upon the finite Me!" in a poem by this author that controversially lost a contest in The Lyric Year to Orrick Johns.
  - She wrote of how God "in one big torrent, set me free, washing my grave away from me!" in a poem that opens "All I could see from where I stood/Was three long mountains and a wood".
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" and "Renascence" who claimed "my candle burns at both ends; it will not last the night" in the first poem from her A Few Figs from Thistles. [GIVE]

[T16] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - The speaker of one of this author's poems "laughed and laughed into the sky, / Till at my throat a strangling sob / Caught fiercely." When another of this poet's speakers was only "knee-high," he was told: "There's nothing in the house / But a loaf-end of rye", and an (*) object with a "woman's head" that "Nobody will buy." The speaker of another of this author's poems delights in an object that "gives a lovely light!" For 10 points, name this author of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver," whose poem "First Fig" opens: "My candle burns at both ends." [GIVE]

[T17] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay (or Nancy Boyd, apparently)
  - This poet wrote "I am most faithless when I most am true" in the poem "O, Think Not I Am Faithful." This poet included the refrain "we were very tired, we were very merry" in a poem in which the speakers give apples and pears to a beggar and ride back and forth on a ferry.
  - The image of "clothes of a king's son, just my size" ends this author's poem about a mother who freezes to death trying to make clothes for her child.
  - This poet of "Recuerdo" wrote that "the heart can push the sea and land farther away on either hand" in a poem that begins "all I could (*) see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood." Her most famous poem ends "but ah, my foes, and oh, my friends - it gives a lovely light!" For 10 points, name this poet of "The Ballad of the Harp Weaver" and "Renascence" who wrote the lines "My candle burns at both ends; It will not last the night" in her collection A Few Figs from Thistles. [GIVE]

[T18] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - The speaker of a poem by this author says "A man was starving in Capri; He moved his eyes and looked at me" and ends the poem by warning "he whose soul is flat" that "sky / will cave in on him by and by." This poet wrote of a time "when first the shaft into his vision shone / Of light anatomized!" in a poem that describes how "heroes seek release / From dusty bondage into luminous air". [PWR]
  - This author of the sonnet (*) "Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare" wrote of rain washing away her grave in a poem that begins "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood".
  - In another of her poems, a mother uses a musical instrument with a woman's head to make clothes for her child.
  - For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Ballad of the Harp Weaver" and "Renascence", as well as the collection A Few Figs from Thistles. [GIVE]

[T19] 2014 MGMT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: sonnets of Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - In one of these works by this poet, the title character is told, "So enter now, and see for what slight thing/You are betrayed," and that work is a gender-flipped retelling of "Bluebeard".
  - Another one of these works ends, "Whether or not we find what we are seeking/Is idle, biologically speaking." Another of these works notes that "the rain/Is full of ghosts tonight," and compares the speaker to a tree who "knows its boughs more silent than before", while another asks, "Let all who prate of Beauty hold their peace" in favour of the title figure.
  - The speaker of another one of these works refuses to trade the title entity, even though it "cannot fill the thickened lung with breath,/Nor clean the blood, nor set the fractured bone".
  - For 10 points, name these works which include "What lips my lips have kissed", "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare", and "Love is not all", as well as one that begins, "I will put Chaos into fourteen lines," written by the author of Renascence. [GIVE]

[T20] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: sonnets of Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - One of these works tells the listener that if "ever the bridges of this town... be taken, and its battlements go down," and the listener "take ship unto some happier shore," the speaker will remain "to beg from spectres by a broken arch." In another of these works, the author feels "a quiet pain/ For unremembered lads," and concludes "that summer sang in me/ A little while, that in me sings no more."One of these works concludes with the speaker's refusal "to sell your love for peace/ Or trade the memory of this night for food," and begins with the assertion that "Love is not all: it is not meat nor drink/ Nor slumber nor a roof against the rain." That work is contained in its author's collection titled Fatal Interview, while another of these works begins with the lines "Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare,"and is found in the collection The Harp Weaver.
  - For 10 points, identify these poems of 14 lines in iambic pentameter, found in collections such as A Few Figs from Thistles and Renascence. [GIVE]

[T21] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Edna St. Vincent Millay
  - In one poem, this author wrote that "there are a hundred places where I fear to go" due to memories of a departed lover.
  - In another poem, this author declared fortunate those who "have heard [beauty's] massive sandal set on stone." This author of "Time Does Not Bring Relief: You All Have Lied" and "Euclid Alone Has Looked On Beauty Bare" wrote in another poem that "into the earth I sank" until she "six feet under ground did lie." In that poem, she wrote that "infinity pressed down upon the finite Me" and began by saying that "all I could see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" and "Renascence" who wrote, "My candle burns at both ends" in A Few Figs From Thistles. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A section describing the corpse of a soldier from this country named John Doe concludes the novel Nineteen Nineteen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United States of America [or USA; or America; accept U.S.A.Trilogy; accept "The Body of an American"]):
    Name this country that titles a trilogy of novels by John Dos Passos.
  Part 2 (ans: cameras [accept "The Camera Eye"] (The Dreiser novel is An American Tragedy.)):
    Stream-of-consciousness sections throughout the trilogy are titled for the "Eye" of these objects. In a Theodore Dreiser novel, Roberta drowns in Big Bittern Lake after being struck by one of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: executions of Sacco and Vanzetti [accept descriptions like the deaths or trial of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti] (The poem is "Justice Denied in Massachusetts" by Edna St. Vincent Millay.)):
    Description acceptable. In Camera Eye 50, Dos Passos writes, "all right we are two nations" in response to this event. A poem written in response to this event repeatedly urges, "Let us go home, and sit in the sitting room."

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An stanza featuring an "A, B, B, A, A, B, B, A" rhyme scheme typically opens the Italian variant of this poetic form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sonnets [accept Petrarchan sonnets or Italian sonnets]):
    Name this poetic form that includes a poem beginning "I will put Chaos into fourteen lines," often divided into an octave and a sestet.
  Part 2 (ans: Euclid [accept "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare"]):
    A sonnet titled for this figure by the author of "I will put Chaos into fourteen lines" describes how "the shaft into his vision shone / Of light anatomized!" after demanding to let "all who prate of Beauty hold their peace."
  Part 3 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay (The unnamed poem is "Renascence.")):
    The line "I will put Chaos into fourteen lines" opens a sonnet by this poet of Four Sonnets and "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare." In another poem, this poet wrote "Infinity / Pressed down upon the finite Me!"

[B3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Dorothy Parker said that she followed in the "exquisite" footsteps of this author "unhappily in my own horrible sneakers." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay (The sonnet is "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare.")):
    Name this author of the collection Fatal Interview, who Parker said "made poetry seem so easy that we could all do it." The speaker says, "heroes seek release / From dusty bondage into luminous air" in a sonnet by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: candles):
    Dorothy Parker wrote about how one of these objects "gives a single light" in her poem "Interview." In Millay's poem "First Fig," one of these objects "burns at both ends" and "will not last the night."
  Part 3 (ans: roses [accept "One Perfect Rose" or "No rose that in a garden ever grew" or "a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose"]):
    Parker wrote a poem about a "Perfect" one of these objects, which sometimes title a Millay poem that describes "the air incarnadine." These objects are repeated in a line from Gertrude Stein's poem "Sacred Emily."

[B4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem set in this country asks a series of questions about a ship's figurehead, such as "Did the blue afterwards wear away?" and "Did her eyes slant in the old way?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Egypt [or Misr; or Arab Republic of Egypt; or Jumhuriyat Misr al-ʻArabiyah; accept Helen in Egypt] (H.D. wrote Helen in Egypt.)):
    Name this country that titles a long feminist poem divided into the sections "Palinode," "Leuke," and "Eidolon." It ends with the protagonist having Achilles's son in this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay [or Nancy Boyd]):
    The speaker imagines Egyptian kings whose "will was not to die" in a sonnet by this poet, who sees "three long mountains and a wood" in her poem "Renascence" ("ruh-NAY-sense").
  Part 3 (ans: The Book of the Dead):
    This poem's many allusions to ancient Egypt include a reference to the weighing of the heart. This documentary poem sequence by Muriel Rukeyser chronicles the Hawk's Nest mining disaster in Gauley Bridge, West Virginia.

[B5] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of one play, a reporter named Knowles confesses that his passion for poetry was inspired by this character before persuading Ann and Ted to show him her study room. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alison Stanhope [accept Alison's House; prompt on Stanhope]):
    Name this fictional poet whose house is being sold after her death in a 1930 play that won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama. This character was loosely inspired by Emily Dickinson.
  Part 2 (ans: Susan (Keating) Glaspell):
    Alison's House is a play by this author, who also wrote about Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Peters hiding a strangled canary to cover up Minnie's crimes in her one-act play Trifles.
  Part 3 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay [or Nancy Boyd]):
    Glaspell founded the Provincetown Players, a theater collective that gave voice to many women artists and writers such as this poet, who would later go on to win the 1923 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry for her poem "Ballad of the Harp-Weaver."

[B6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a one-act play in which two women surmise that Minnie killed her husband after finding evidence like a strangled canary, but decide to keep their findings from their husbands. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan (Keating) Glaspell):
    Name this playwright who founded the Provincetown Players with her husband George Cram Cook and wrote about the death of John Wright in her play Trifles.
  Part 2 (ans: Hale [accept Reverend John Hale]):
    The Wrights' neighbors have this surname in Trifles. In The Crucible, a reverend with this surname tests knowledge of the Ten Commandments during an investigation of John Proctor's home.
  Part 3 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    Glaspell was friends with this member of the Provincetown Players, who wrote the play Aria Da Capo. This author of "Renascence" ("ree-NAY-sense") described her "candle burning at both ends" in her collection A Few Figs from Thistles.

[B7] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of their works, this poet describes a narrator 'A-rock-rock-rocking / To a mother-goose rhyme!'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    Name this poet, who wrote 'The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver' and began another work with 'All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood'.
  Part 2 (ans: the sky [accept skies]):
    In 'The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver', the narrator's mother has woven clothes 'piled up beside her / And toppling to [this thing]'. In 'Renascence', the narrator describes this thing as 'not so very tall' and screams after touching it with their hand.
  Part 3 (ans: candles):
    Millay is more famous for writing in her poem 'First Fig' that one of these objects 'burns at both ends' and 'will not last the night'.

[B8] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Thomas Hardy once quipped that "America has two great attractions: the skyscrapers and the poetry of [this author]." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    Name this poet who was one of many female lyricists to be discredited by critics in the mid-20th century. This poet's collection A Few Figs From Thistles includes a poem beginning "My candle burns at both ends."
  Part 2 (ans: "Renascence"):
    The line "Time does not bring relief; you all have lied" opens a sonnet about heartbreak in Millay's collection titled for this long poem. This poem, an account of being buried alive in the wide expanse of the universe, opens with the lines "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and wood."
  Part 3 (ans: "I might as well be glad!"):
    This word is the last word of Millay's poem "The Penitent." The poem's speaker resolves to be troubled no more by her "Little Sorrow" and "Little Sin" before a line ending with this word follows "But if I can't be sorry, why".

[B9] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Theophile Gautier's ("tay-oh-FEEL goat-YAY's") article "Shakespeare at the Funambules" revolutionized this character's artistic role by reviewing a made-up pantomime in which he kills a clothes peddler and is in turn killed by the peddler's ghost. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pierrot ("p'yair-OH")):
    Identify this naive and tragic character who archetypically loses his lover Columbine.
  Part 2 (ans: commedia dell'arte [or comedy of the profession; prompt on partial answer]):
    Pierrot evolved from this European genre of theater that normalized actresses on stage and relied on stock characters wearing masks and archetypal plots with heavy improvisation.
  Part 3 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    The tragedy of Pierrot figures into the plot of this author's play Aria da Capo. She wrote the poems "Renascence" and "First Fig," which opens "My candle burns at both ends; / it will not last the night."

[B10] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: These animals "slic
  Part 1 (ans: wild geese [prompt on birds; the poems are called "The Geese" or "Wild Geese"]):
    the frozen sky" in a poem by Jane Mead, whose speaker hears them calling "while time / and the heart take measure." For 10 points each: [10] A poem by Mary Oliver promises that the world will offer "itself to your imagination," like the "harsh and exciting" calls of what animals, which "over and over announc[e] your place / in the family of things"?
  Part 2 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    At the start of her career, Mary Oliver spent seven years living at this poet's house at Steepletop, organizing her papers. In a sonnet, this author wrote: "let geese / Gabble and hiss, but heroes seek release / From dusty bondage into luminous air."
  Part 3 (ans: spiders):
    In a poem by Jorie Graham, these other animals "chainlink over the visible world" while imitating "the paths the geese won't stray from." A "noiseless, patient" one of these animals "launch'd forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself" in a poem by Whitman.

[B11] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A sheriff in this play complains about a woman suspected of murder who still worries about her preserves. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Trifles):
    Name this one-act play, adapted into the story "A Jury of Her Peers," in which Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Peters hide evidence which hints that Mrs. Wright killed her abusive husband for strangling her canary.
  Part 2 (ans: Emily Dickinson):
    Trifles was written by Susan Glaspell, a playwright who also fictionalized the legacy of this reclusive female poet from Amherst, Massachusetts, in her play Alison's House.
  Part 3 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    Glaspell founded the Provincetown Players, a group that discovered Eugene O'Neill and this author of Renascence. A woman freezes to death making clothes for her son in this poet's "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver."

[B12] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem proclaims that because we have "foster[ed] quack and weed," we have " marched upon but cannot conquer". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Justice Denied in Massachusetts"):
    Name this poem, whose opening "Let us abandon then our gardens and go home / And sit in the sitting-room" is said to be a reference to Eliot's Prufrock. It was written two days before the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti.
  Part 2 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay [prompt on Nancy Boyd]):
    This author wrote "Justice Denied in Massachusetts". Her other works include "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver".
  Part 3 (ans: Aria da Capo):
    Millay's turn to politics after WWI includes writing and producing this anti-war play. This pastoral, which includes Corydon and Thyrsis as characters, features a "masque of tragedy" overseen by Cothurnus.

[B13] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man is known as the "Marquis" in a story in which his victims include an opera singer who performed the part of Isolde, the model for Odilon Redon's The Evening Star Walking on the Rim of Night, and a fashionable Romanian countess. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bluebeard [or Barbe bleue]):
    Name this evil folk character who is central to Angela Carter's "The Bloody Chamber"; in that story, this man takes the narrator's virginity in a bedroom whose walls are lined with a dozen mirrors.
  Part 2 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    In a sonnet by this poet, Bluebeard indignantly reveals that his secret chamber is really empty, "cobwebbed and comfortless." She wrote "all I could see from where I stood / was three long mountains and a wood" at the beginning of her poem "Renascence" (ree-NAY-"scents").
  Part 3 (ans: Kurt Vonnegut [or Kurt Vonnegut Jr.]):
    This author's novel Bluebeard is about the abstract expressionist Rabo Karabekian, who keeps his painting Now It's the Women's Turn locked away in a windowless potato barn. He also wrote Slaughterhouse-Five.

[B14] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote a sonnet insisting, "Love can not fill the thickened lung with breath...yet many a man is making friends with death even as I speak, for lack of love alone," as well as a sonnet asserting "love is not blind" that concludes, "Well I know what is this beauty...I wonder only why they prize it so." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    Name this poet whose sonnets include "What lips my lips have kissed, and where, and why" and a sequence of four beginning with "Love, though for this you riddle me with darts."
  Part 2 (ans: dust):
    One of Millay's sonnets begins with the speaker telling the addressee "and you as well must die, beloved [this substance]." One of the speakers of The Waste Land offers to show the reader "fear in a handful of [this substance]."
  Part 3 (ans: iambic tetrameter [prompt on iambic; do not accept "trochaic tetrameter" or any other tetrameters; prompt on such answers as four feet per line]):
    Millay wrote a metrically unorthodox sonnet entitled "Sonnet in [this meter]," a favorite of Andrew Marvell, who used it for "To His Coy Mistress" and many other poems.

[B15] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Louise Gluck poem, a character from one of these stories tells her brother "we are there still and it is real, real, that black forest and the fire in earnest." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fairy tales):
    Name this genre of "Hansel and Gretel," one of the many stories of this type collected by the Grimm brothers.
  Part 2 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    The line "This now is yours. I seek another place" concludes this poet's revision of the Bluebeard fairy tale, which features an "empty room." This poet also wrote "Renascence" and "Ballad of the Harp Weaver."
  Part 3 (ans: "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs"):
    Anne Sexton's version of this fairy tale in Transformations notes "the virgin is a lovely number." Donald Barthelme's version of this story includes a factory that produces plastic buffalo humps and Chinese baby food.

[B16] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author, Bluebeard reveals "here is no treasure hid...no heads of women slain" and states, "This now is yours. I seek another place." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    Name this author who described the "terrible day when first the shaft into his vision shone of light anatomized!" in the sonnet "Euclid alone has look on Beauty bare."
  Part 2 (ans: a candle):
    Millay's poem "First Fig" tells "foes and...friends" that one of these items "burns at both ends" and "will not last the night."
  Part 3 (ans: a harp [or "Ballad of the Harp-Weaver"]):
    In a "ballad" by Millay, an impoverished mother freezes to death after weaving clothes for her son with one of these instruments.

[B17] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote of a mother who dies fashioning clothes from the title instrument in "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    Name this American poet, whose works include "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare."
  Part 2 (ans: candle):
    Millay's "First Fig" describes one of these objects burning "at both ends" but giving "a lovely light".
  Part 3 (ans: "Renascence"):
    In this poem by Millay, the speaker is crushed to death by the infinity of the world after touching the sky, but God

[B18] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this poem uses an instrument "with a woman's head" to create "the clothes of a king's son." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver"):
    Name this poem in which the title character freezes to death while magically creating an entire wardrobe for her impoverished child.
  Part 2 (ans: Edna St. Vincent Millay):
    This poet of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" also wrote the plays Aria da capo and Two Slatterns and a King, as well as a poem in which the speaker sees "three long mountains and a wood," titled "Renascence."
  Part 3 (ans: "at both ends" [accept anything indicating that the candle is burning from both sides]):
    Millay is probably best known for the collection A Few Figs From Thistles. That collection begins with the poem "First Fig," which describes a candle which burns in this manner and "gives a lovely light."
