=== STOCK CLUES: Thomas Chatterton ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Chatterton [prompt on Thomas Rowley until read by asking "what was his real name?"]
  - Dante Gabriel Rossetti's "Five English Poets" attributes to this poet "Shakespeare's manhood at a boy's wild heart" and describes his soul ascending a spire's "angel-trodden stair." Queen Mab summons ghosts in the graveyard of St.
  - Mary Redcliffe in this poet's "The Parliament of Sprites." The line "the budding floweret blushes at the light" opens the "Minstrel's Marriage-Song" from this poet's Aella, a Tragical Interlude.
  - This poet, Sidney, and Lucan are called "inheritors of unfulfill'd renown" in Percy Shelley's Adonais.
  - The cover image of Peter Ackroyd's novel about this poet is Henry Wallis's painting of his death.
  - Called a "marvellous Boy" in William Wordsworth's "Resolution and Independence," this Bristol poet tried to pass off his work as that of the 15th-century monk Thomas Rowley.
  - For 10 points, name this poet whose suicide at age 17 fascinated the Romantics. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Chatterton [prompt on Thomas Rowley before "Rowley" is read by asking "who was the real life author who used that pseudonym?"]
  - This poet used royal rhyme in a dialogue poem in which "nottebrown Ellynor" and "Juga fayre" lament their sweethearts' deaths in the Wars of the Roses. [PWR]
  - In another poem, this author described an elderly pilgrim caught in a storm who is refused entry to the Seyncte Godwynes  convent before being taken in by a humble priest. [PWR]
  - This poet of "An Excellent Ballad of Charitie" wrote a satirical "Last Will and Testament" shortly before leaving his hometown of Bristol.
  - The speaker of Wordsworth's "Resolution and Independence" calls this author "the marvelous (*) Boy" who "walked in glory and in joy / Following his plough, along the mountain-side." This poet is the dedicatee of Keats's Endymion.
  - For 10 points, name this 18th-century proto-romantic poet who forged a number of poems he attributed to the medieval priest Thomas Rowley before killing himself at age 17. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem inspired by this event was first published in 1790 as a Pindaric ode but was revised intermittently until its final publication in 1834. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the death of Thomas Chatterton):
    Identify this event that inspired a John Keats sonnet describing its subject as a "half-blown flow'ret which cold blasts amate."
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet wrote of Chatterton's "sleepless soul," and of how the lives of poets "begin in gladness" but end in "despondency and madness" in his poem "Resolution and Independence."
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This other poet described Chatterton, who "rose pale, his solemn agony... not yet faded from him," in a pastoral elegy lamenting John Keats's early death titled Adonais ("AD-oh-NAY-iss").

[B2] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a poem that says "Could it here succeed / When scarcely twenty in the town can read?" to mock his hometown of Bristol. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Chatterton):
    Name this author who wrote in that poem "Rowley discharges all," referencing a fictional 15th-century monk to which this author attributed many forgeries. His will ends "I leave my mother and my sister to the protection of my friends, if I have any" and was written before his suicide at age 17.
  Part 2 (ans: letters [accept love letters]):
    Chatterton's will leaves some of these documents to young ladies, whom he assures need not worry about his ghost because he died for none of them. An epistolary novel collects many of these documents.
  Part 3 (ans: epitaph [accept "Epitaph on Robert Canynge"; do not accept or prompt on "epigraph"]):
    Chatterton wrote a work in this form "on Robert Canynge ("CAN-ing")." This form commemorates someone who has died and is traditionally inscribed on their tombstone.

[B3] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The line "My first thought was, he lied in every word" opens this poem, whose speaker encounters a river that, like many quizbowlers, is described as "so petty yet so spiteful!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came"):
    Name this Robert Browning poem that ends with its title character setting his "slug-horn" to his lips and blowing. It takes its title from a song sung by Edgar in King Lear.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Chatterton):
    Browning likely adopted the use of the term "slug-horn" to refer to an obsolete instrument from this precocious 18th-century poet, who passed off a bunch of faux-medieval writings as works of the monk "Thomas Rowley".
  Part 3 (ans: The Soldier's Art):
    The poem claims that this three-word phrase is defined as "think first, fight afterwards". Anthony Powell ("pole") used this phrase to title the eighth Dance to the Music of Time novel.

[B4] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: As a boy, this character's only friend is Ripton Thompson, with whom he sets a neighbor's haystacks on fire. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Feverel [accept either name]):
    Name this title character of an 1859 novel, who is raised by his father Sir Austin under a strict system of education, which forbids him from meeting girls his own age until he is married at the age of 25.
  Part 2 (ans: George Meredith):
    The Ordeal of Richard Feverel is by this author of The Egoist, who wrote the poem which inspired Vaughan Williams' The Lark Ascending.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Chatterton):
    Meredith was the model for Henry Wallis's painting of the death of this poet, who pretended to be a medieval poet named Thomas Rowley and committed suicide at the age of 17.

[B5] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The Pre-Raphaelite Henry Wallis painted the death scene of this writer, showing him lying on a couch dead of arsenic poisoning in a canvas that hangs in the Tate. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Chatterton):
    Name this writer who was the dedicatee of John Keats's poem "Endymion," and who created the Bristol priest Thomas Rowley.
  Part 2 (ans: William Beckford):
    Chatterton wrote several letters to this Lord-Mayor and an elegy on his "much lamented death." This guy has the same name as his son, a novelist who's best known for writing "An Arabian Novel" about the ninth Caliph of the Abbasid Dynasty who renounces Islam and is punished by being sent to Hell with the demon Eblis.
  Part 3 (ans: George Meredith):
    Henry Wallis used this writer as a model for his painting, mostly because he was banging his wife at the time. This guy wrote The Ordeal of Richard Feverel and the sonnet collection Modern Love.
