=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Thomas Chatterton ===
(Questions where 'Thomas Chatterton' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 2 found, 7 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: John Keats
  - This author called the human heart the "mind's Bible" in a letter analogizing the world to "a vale of soul-making." The critic John Gibson Lockhart wrote "it is better to be a starving apothecary than a starving poet" after reading one of this writer's poems mentioning an object that "will never Pas
  - The forger Thomas Chatterton was the dedicatee of a four-book poem by this author, which begins by describing "a thing of beauty is a joy forever." A poem about a mythological shepherd named "Endymion" was written by, for 10 points, what Romantic poet who declared "beauty is truth, truth beauty" in 

[TM2] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Keats
  - This poet dedicated one of his longer poems to the disgraced forger Thomas Chatterton.
  - A poem by this author tells of a woman doing a ritual in which "supperless to bed [she] must retire" in order that she "might have visions of delight." In addition to that poem about lovers Madeline and Porphyro this poet wrote of flying "on the viewless wings of poesy" in a poem that asks "do I wak
  - This poet's concept of negative capability is demonstrated in his claim that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty".
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Eve of St.
  - Agnes" as well as "Ode to a Nightingale" and "Ode on a Grecian Urn".

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: The first book of this work describes "some shape of beauty" that "moves away the pall / From our dark spirits." For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Endymion):
    Name this poem dedicated to Thomas Chatterton that opens "A thing of beauty is a joy forever."
  Part 2 (ans: John Keats):
    This English Romantic poet of Endymion also wrote "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
  Part 3 (ans: "Ode on Melancholy"):
    This Keats ode titled for a feeling declares "She dwells with Beauty-Beauty that must die" and opens "No, no, go not to Lethe."

[BM2] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: Vox TV critic Emily VanDerWerff criticized her colleague Matthew Yglesias for his signature on this document because of its many transphobic cosigners. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Letter on Justice and Open Debate" [accept the Harper's Letter]):
    Name or describe this open letter organized in July 2020 by Thomas Chatterton Williams, which called for an end to online "cancel culture" and purported to defend free speech.
  Part 2 (ans: Twitter):
    Williams organized the letter in response to the firing of the data analyst David Shor for posting a paper by the political scientist Omar Wasow on this social media website. This website popularized the use of hashtags.
  Part 3 (ans: Mark Fisher [accept k-punk] (The essay is "Exiting the Vampire Castle.")):
    This cultural critic argued that online shaming undermines class consciousness in a 2013 essay, which compared the "witch-hunting moralism" of some Twitter users to the title structure.

[BM3] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The four-line epigraph to this poem begins "Late, late yestreen I saw the new Moon". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dejection: An Ode"):
    Name this poem whose seventh section begins with the speaker choosing to "listen to the wind" instead of to the "viper thoughts" that "coil around my mind".
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    This Romantic poet described how his "genial spirits fail" in "Dejection: An Ode". An interruption by the "person from Porlock" prevented him from finishing his poem "Kubla Khan".
  Part 3 (ans: "Resolution and Independence" [by William Wordsworth]):
    "Dejection: An Ode" was a response to this poem. Its speaker laments the early deaths of Thomas Chatterton and Robert Burns, but is eventually given "human strength, by apt admonishment" after an encounter with an old leech-gatherer.

[BM4] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literary forgeries, FTPE.
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Carey):
    In My Life as a Fake, this author converted the Ern Malley literary hoax into a novel in which Christopher Chubb creates the fake poet Bob McCorkle. He also wrote Illywhacker and Oscar and Lucinda.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Rowley):
    This imaginary monk was the creation of Thomas Chatterton, who "discovered" such "medieval" poems as "The Battle of Hastings" and "Aella: A Tragycal Enterlude."
  Part 3 (ans: Pictures of Fidelman):
    In the short story "Naked Nude," the title character of this Malamud collection is forced to create a forgery of Titian's Venus of Urbino to free himself from working in a brothel.
