=== STOCK CLUES: Henry Fielding ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 61 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 22 found, 65 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fielding [accept Sarah Fielding or Henry Fielding]
  - An author from this family wrote about the "rational reader" Miss Gibson debating the "misreader" Bellario in a set of remarks on a contemporary's novel. [PWR]
  - John Hill mocked an author from this family for writing about a woman who "could charm the world without the help of a nose," sparking the "paper war." The first English children's novel, The Governess, was written by an author from this family named (*) Sarah. [PWR]
  - An author from this family created a character who leaves her fur muff in an Upton inn, where a man fears he has committed incest with Mrs.
  - Waters.
  - Competition over an inheritance causes acrimony between Bilfil and the title character, who marries Sophia Western, in a novel by an author from this family.
  - For 10 points, an author from which family wrote Tom Jones? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: parson [accept Parson Weems, Parson Yorick, or Parson Adams; accept curate; prompt on reverend, minister, rector, pastor, priest, cleric, or clergyman; reject "vicar" or "father"] (Joseph Andrews is by Henry Fielding.)
  - Exact word required.
  - A forgetful man with this title is chased by hunting dogs in a scene that parodies Homeric combat as his mentee dispatches them with a cudgel. [PWR]
  - Viktor Shklovsky titled his memoirs after a novel in which a man with this title receives a passport from Count B-, who mistakes him for a literary character. [PWR]
  - An Aeschylus fan with this title who mentors Pamela's "brother," Joseph Andrews, is named Abraham Adams. [PWR]
  - Another man with this title is interrupted by the word "end" as he reaches for a (*) fille de chambre. [PWR]
  - After leaving for Calais, a man with this title remembers meeting Mundungus and Smelfungus in Italy.
  - A Sentimental Journey is narrated by a Laurence Sterne character with this title named Yorick.
  - For 10 points, give this title held by the author of a fable about George Washington and a cherry tree, surnamed Weems. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Fielding [accept Henry Fielding; accept Sarah Fielding; prompt on Conny Keyber by asking "what author used that pseudonym?"]
  - An author with this surname wrote a novel in which the title character travels to London and Westminster in search of a "real Friend." A different author with this surname published a burlesque "apology for the life of" a former prostitute who schemes to seduce Squire Booby.
  - An author with this surname published The Adventures of David Simple, and a different author with this surname wrote a novel which features both the philosopher Square and the student-beating Reverend Thwackum as tutors.
  - That author with this surname wrote a novel in which the title character impregnates Black George's daughter Molly.
  - The title character of that novel by an author with this surname gets permission from Squire Allworthy to marry Sophia Western.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the authors Sarah and her brother who wrote Tom Jones, Henry. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Henry Fielding
  - A preface by this author puts forward "the Ridiculous" as the subject for the novel defined as "a comic epic poem in prose." One of this author's characters gets hit by a bottle thrown by Ensign Notherton, whom he later stops from strangling a woman on the side of the road.
  - In a novel by this author, Mr. [PWR]
  - Wilson identifies a strawberry birthmark on the protagonist's chest, revealing that he is not actually the (*) brother of another author's protagonist. [PWR]
  - One of this author's characters rescues and sleeps with Mrs.
  - Waters, only to find out that she is his ostensible mother, Jenny Jones.
  - This author, who parodied a moralizing rival in Joseph Andrews, wrote a ribald novel about a foundling raised by Squire Allworthy.
  - For 10 points, name this enemy of Samuel Richardson, who wrote Tom Jones. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Henry Fielding
  - A pamphlet by this author purports to tell the true story of the possibly-transgender Mary Hamilton, who was convicted for marrying Anna Price. [PWR]
  - This author ends a chapter with "Here the Graces think proper to end their description" after a lady "unmask[s] the royal battery," before cutting to a conversation in the kitchen where the characters hear again of the Man of the Hill. [PWR]
  - A novel by this author of The Female Husband features a plot concocted by Lord (*) Fellamar and Lady Bellaston to marry off a huntsman's daughter, so that the lady can have the sole attention of Bridget's bastard son. [PWR]
  - That comic novel by this author concludes with the marriage of Sophia Western to the title character, who is raised by Squire Allworthy as a foundling.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Tom Jones. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Henry Fielding
  - In The Female Thermometer, Terry Castle described how this writer emasculated "George," the subject of a scandal "not fit to be mentioned." This writer is commonly attributed as the author of The Golden Rump, of which no copies survive, and which may or may not have existed. [PWR]
  - This writer published an anonymous, wildly popular pamphlet about the "Surprising History" of the transvestite Mary Hamilton, titled The Female Husband. [PWR]
  - This author borrowed the pseudonym "Conny (*) Keyber" to publish a burlesque "apology for the life of a" former prostitute who manipulates her way into marriage with the idiotic master of Booby Hall.
  - This author, who frequently wrote under the pseudonym "Captain Hercules Vinegar," responded to a contemporary novelist's lengthy book about "virtue rewarded" with a satire published in 1741.
  - For 10 points, Samuel Richardson's Pamela provoked what author to write Shamela, which was published eight years before his novel Tom Jones? [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Henry Fielding
  - This author bastardized the refrain of a song from James Thomson's Sophonisba in a play featuring a footnote that then accuses Thomson of stealing that very same "beautiful line." The Italian castrato Signior Opera is chosen as a mate by the Goddess of Nonsense in a play within a play by this author. [PWR]
  - This author had his frequent pseudonym Scriblerus Secundus field questions from the players putting on the title production in his play The Welsh Opera. [PWR]
  - The title character of a play by this author defeats a rebel army led by his romantic rival Lord Grizzle, but is then (*) swallowed by a large red cow on his way back to King Arthur's castle. [PWR]
  - This author of The Author's Farce wrote The Tragedy of Tragedies, an expanded version of his play about a tiny character from English folklore, before retiring from the theater entirely in the wake of the censorship brought about by the Licensing Act of 1737.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Tom Thumb who subsequently wrote a novel about a foundling taken in by Squire Allworthy. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fielding [accept Henry Fielding or Sarah Fielding]
  - An author from this family wrote about a boarding school run by Miss Teachum, who instructs her students on the morals found in the stories read to them by Jenny Peace. [PWR]
  - That author from this family wrote the first full-length English-language children's novel, The Governess, as well as an early sentimental novel called The Adventures of David Simple. [PWR]
  - Another author from this family created a character who is kidnapped by gypsies as a child but is later recognized by his long-lost father, Mr. [PWR]
  - Wilson, due to the strawberry-shaped birthmark on his (*) chest. [PWR]
  - Fanny Goodwill appears in a novel by an author from this family about a footman who spurns the advances of Lady Booby.
  - That man wrote about a character who is allowed by Squire Allworthy to marry Sophia Western, even though he is a foundling.
  - For 10 points, name this English family whose members included Sarah and her brother Henry, who wrote Joseph Andrews and Tom Jones. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henry Fielding
  - An early poem by this author is a Pope-inspired work mocking the Scriblerus club.
  - A scene in a novel by this author in which a maid called Betty is chased by a landlord's wife occurs in Mr.
  - Tow-wouse's inn.
  - That novel's title character is dismissed from Lady Booby's employ before ultimately being married by Parson Adams to Fanny Goodwill.
  - Multiple examples of this author's early prose works were inspired by his distaste for Samuel Richardson.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Joseph Andrews and Tom Jones. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Henry Fielding
  - This author's first major success on the stage contains a puppet play called The Pleasures of the Town, written by Harry Luckless.
  - As the editor of the Covent-Garden Journal, this author of The Author' s Farce started the so-called "Paper War" by attacking John Hill.
  - The title character of one of his novels injures her nose in a carriage accident and is married to William Booth.
  - He wrote a novel whose title character resists the sexual advances of Lady Booby, much like Mr.
  - B is resisted by the title character of Richardson's Pamela.
  - In his best known novel, the protagonist's love for Sophia Western is opposed by Squire Allworthy, who takes him in as a foundling.
  - For 10 points, name this author who parodied Pamela in Shamela and Joseph Andrews and wrote Amelia and the picaresque novel Tom Jones. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's author responded to readers' and satirists' interest by writing a sequel titled for the protagonist "in Her Exalted Condition." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pamela; or, Virtue Rewarded):
    Name this 1740 epistolary novel whose title character eventually receives a marriage proposal from Mr. B after resisting his attempts to seduce her.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    This author satirized Samuel Richardson's Pamela and represented Mr. B as "Squire Booby" in his novella Shamela. This author also wrote the picaresque novel Tom Jones.
  Part 3 (ans: Eliza Haywood [or Elizabeth Fowler]):
    This author depicted Syrena Tricksy's seductions in the novel The Anti-Pamela. This author of the novel Love in Excess is included with Aphra Behn and Delarivier Manley in the so-called "fair triumvirate of wit."

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play written in part by an author with this surname, the "dupe" Portia tells a story about an infant and two monkeys that is so bad she is attacked by her audience. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fielding [or Henry Fielding; or Sarah Fielding]):
    Give this surname of the author of The Cry alongside Jane Collier. An author with this surname used the pseudonym Scriblerus Secundus to write The Grub Street Opera, an expanded version of The Welsh Opera.
  Part 2 (ans: chorus):
    The title group of The Cry serves this dramatic function, who say their lines in unison and give insight between the action.
  Part 3 (ans: Covent Garden [prompt on the West End]):
    Sarah Fielding's brother Henry premiered a Tragedy named for this district at Drury Lane alongside The Old Debauchees. This district is where Freddy meets Henry Higgins in Pygmalion.

[B3] 2024 HILTON (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The term for a literary group was coined by James Sterling in a dedication for this author's Secret Histories, Novels, and Poems. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eliza Haywood):
    Name this author who parodied a different writer's novel with a character who is raised by her mother to marry a rich man, although she fails to do so.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    That novel, Anti-Pamela, was a further departure from Samuel Richardson's original novel than this author's earlier parody, Shamela
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Savage):
    This one-time lover of Haywood was mocked as Gloatitia in her Memoirs of a Certain Island Adjacent to the Kingdom of Utopia. He also wrote the poetic introduction to her novel Love in Excess.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel in this genre fictionalizes the life of the "Thief-Taker General," Jonathan Wild. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: picaresque novel):
    Name this genre that also includes a novel whose protagonist conflicts with Master Blifil and impregnates Black George's daughter Molly. This genre features low-class roguish adventurers who survive by their wits.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Andrews):
    At the end of this picaresque novel, the title character is recognized as Mr. Wilson's long-lost son by a birthmark on his chest. In this novel, that character marries Fanny Goodwill after spurning Lady Booby's advances.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    This author of Joseph Andrews attacked Samuel Richardson in his satire Shamela and also wrote Tom Jones.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A set of letters by this writer introduced the language of flowers to Britain and was published with a preface by Mary Astell that notes "to how much better purpose the Ladies travel than their Lords." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Mary Wortley Montagu [or Mary Pierrepont]):
    Name this writer who recounted her conversations with other women in bathhouses in letters written while she traveled with her husband, a British ambassador.
  Part 2 (ans: blue stockings [accept The Blue Stockings Society; prompt on stockings]):
    Another 18th-century woman of letters with the same surname was Elizabeth Montagu, who led a women's literary society named for these items. Today, these clothing items are an alternate term for a female intellectual.
  Part 3 (ans: Fielding [accept Henry Fielding; accept Sarah Fielding]):
    Sarah, a Blue Stocking with this surname, drew on the Turkish Embassy Letters of her second cousin Lady Wortley Montagu in promoting smallpox inoculation. Her brother with this surname wrote the novel Tom Jones.

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the early part of this century, women readers and writers dominated the prose genre of Amatory Fiction. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 18th century [or 1700s]):
    Name this century, during which Eliza Haywood and Delarivier Manley became literary celebrities. Ian Watt's The Rise of the Novel analyzes three writers from this century, including the author of Moll Flanders.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn (The second clue refers to Oroonoko.)):
    Haywood and Manley made up the "fair triumvirate of wit" along with this author of The Fair Jilt. One of this author's characters throws a bit of his own throat at a man who finds him over the body of Imoinda.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Eliza Haywood so dominated the novel market that this writer satirized her as "Mrs. Novel" in The Author's Farce. This rival of Samuel Richardson is better known for Shamela and Tom Jones.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, a woman disguises herself as a prostitute, a maid, a grief-stricken widow, and a masked woman called Incognita in order to trick Beauplaisir ("bow-PLAY-seer"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eliza Haywood [or Eliza Fowler]):
    Name this writer of amatory fiction such as Fantomina. This author created the rake D'Elmont in the 1719 novel Love in Excess.
  Part 2 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    Eliza Haywood, Delarivier Manley, and this author were known as "the fair triumvirate of wit." This author wrote about Hellena dressing as a man to woo Willmore during Carnival in her play The Rover.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding (Haywood's parody was The Anti-Pamela, and Fielding's was Shamela.)):
    In 1741, parodies of Samuel Richardson's novel Pamela were written by Haywood and this other early English novelist who wrote Tom Jones.

[B8] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A writer and botanist with this surname was the original target of the article in The Covent-Garden Journal that launched the "paper war." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hill [accept John Hill; accept Fanny Hill]):
    Give this surname shared by a main character who, among other misadventures, gets revenge on her lover Mr. H- by seducing his footman Will in the 18th century erotic novel Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    The "paper war" was launched by this writer, whose novel Amelia was subsequently attacked by John Hill. This author satirized Samuel Richardson's Pamela in the novel Shamela.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    During the "paper war," Christopher Smart wrote The Hilliad, whose title and mock epic form were inspired in large part by this earlier writer's poem The Dunciad. This writer also wrote The Rape of the Lock.

[B9] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This figure is reimagined as a trans man who takes hormone replacements in the form of an elixir smuggled by pirates in Jordy Rosenberg's 2018 debut novel Confessions of the Fox. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jack Sheppard [or Honest Jack; or Gentleman Jack; or Jack the Lad; prompt on Jack]):
    Name this infamous English thief who captured the literary imagination by staging four daring escapes from prison, serving as the inspiration for Macheath in The Beggar's Opera.
  Part 2 (ans: Daniel Defoe [or Daniel Foe]):
    At Sheppard's execution, peddlers sold an autobiography believed to have been ghostwritten by this author, who wrote a sympathetic account of a woman con artist born in Newgate Prison in Moll Flanders.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Jack Sheppard was arrested many times due to his criminal rival Jonathan Wild, whose life was fictionalized in this author's novel Jonathan Wild. This author also wrote the novel Amelia.

[B10] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these two authors poked fun at the length and subtitle of a novel by the other in a scene where Mrs. Booby exclaims "Your virtue? I'll never survive it!" after being rebuffed by her young male employee. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Richardson AND Henry Fielding):
    Name these two 18th-century novelists. One of these authors introduced the character Mrs. Booby as the sister of the other's character Mr. B--- in a novel also featuring the good-natured squire Adams.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph [accept Joseph Andrews]):
    Fielding invented a character with this first name and the surname Andrews in a comic novel that subverted many of the tropes of Richardson's Pamela. The Fielding character with this name is partly inspired by an Old Testament figure with this name who has a colorful coat.
  Part 3 (ans: Middlemarch: A Study in Provincial Life (by George Eliot)):
    The narrator of this other novel remarks that their own "copious remarks and digressions" resemble that of the narrator of Joseph Andrews. Gordon Haight has argued that the true hero of this novel is Mary Garth, the subject of a bizarre 1853 volume in which all parts of the novel she appears in not featuring her were excised.

[B11] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about British adaptations and satires of Don Quixote, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charlotte Lennox):
    This author is best known for her portrayal of Don Quixote as a woman named Arabella in her novel The Female Quixote. She also offered a feminist reading of Shakespeare in her collection Shakespeare Illuminated.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    This author noted that his novel Joseph Andrews was "written in Imitation of the Manner of Cervantes, Author of Don Quixote." He also wrote Tom Jones.
  Part 3 (ans: Tobias Smollett):
    Timothy Crabshaw is reminiscent of Sancho Panza in this Scottish author's novel The Life and Adventures of Sir Launcelot Greaves. This man is more famous for creating a character raised by Commodore Hawser Trunnion, Sir Peregrine Pickle.

[B12] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This person's father Cornelius delivers a grand lecture to him on the day of his birth at the beginning of novel presented as his "Memoirs." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martinus Scriblerus [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this fictional scholar whose pseudonymous name was used to ridicule "all false tastes in learning" by an eighteenth-century literary club, whose members included John Gay, John Arbuthnot, and Jonathan Swift.
  Part 2 (ans: streets [accept clear knowledge equivalents; accept Grub Street]):
    The "scribblers" satirized by the Scriblerus Club included the "hack writers" of one of these places named "Grub." Broadsides and penny dreadfuls were often sold in these places.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    This other author published plays like The Grub Street Opera under the pseudonym Scriblerus Secundus. After taking editorship of The Covent-Garden Journal, he started a "Paper War" with Grub Street writers by attacking John Hill.

[B13] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's narrator analogizes egoism to a candle illuminating a "pier-glass" that is "scratched in all directions." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Middlemarch, A Study of Provincial Life):
    Name this novel whose famously intrusive narrator notes that, "if we had a keen vision and feeling of all ordinary human life, . . . we should die of that roar which lies on the other side of silence" while describing a woman sobbing on her honeymoon in Rome.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Casaubon [accept either underlined name]):
    In the first sentence of Chapter 29, the narrator breaks off a sentence about Dorothea Brooke to ask, "But why always Dorothea?" and proceeds to delve into the consciousness of this character, who is writing The Key to All Mythologies.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    In another aside, the narrator contrasts "we belated historians" with this self-styled "great historian," the 18th-century author of Tom Jones.

[B14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel uses mock-heroic language for a passage in which this novel's protagonist is seduced by Mrs. Waters as he stuffs his face at an inn. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tom Jones [or The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling]):
    Name this novel, titled for a character who breaks his arm while catching Sophia Western as she falls from a horse in its Book IV.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Tom Jones is the best-known novel of this author, who parodied Samuel Richardson in Shamela and Joseph Andrews.
  Part 3 (ans: Mr. Partridge):
    This teacher and barber-surgeon, who is long suspected to be Tom's father, criticizes David Garrick's acting for being too realistic while visiting a theater. This character shares his name with a type of animal that Tom is blamed for shooting after it is killed by Black George.

[B15] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem written during this period of time declares "For he is the cleanest in the use of his forepaws of any quadruped" and is addressed to the author's cat, Jeoffry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Smart's time in an insane asylum [or Christopher Smart being confined to St. Luke's Hospital for Lunatics; or reasonable descriptions; prompt on partial answers]):
    Name or describe this period of time during which an author wrote the poems Jubilate Agno and A Song to David . It was instigated by an action of John Newbery.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Smart's mock epic poem The Hilliad was written as part of the 1750s Paper War between John Hill and this other author, whose publication The Covent-Garden Journal was heavily involved in the dispute.

[B16] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After sleeping with Mrs Waters, this novel's protagonist becomes concerned he may have committed incest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling):
    Name this 1749 Bildungsroman that sees Squire Allworthy and Squire Western oppose the love between Sophia and the title character.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Tom Jones was written by this English novelist and dramatist, who parodied Samuel Richardson's Pamela in Shamela.
  Part 3 (ans: Amelia):
    This Fielding novel has numerous parallels with the Aeneid and sees William Booth unjustly imprisoned in Newgate Prison and the eponymous character's nose ruined in a carriage accident.

[B17] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A biography by Elizabeth Gaskell notes how an author who took this job often did not eat, similar to how one of that author's protagonists who has this job starves until given food by Mrs. Temple. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: governess [prompt on nanny or tutor or caretaker]):
    Give this occupation of a literary protagonist whose place of employment is burned down by Bertha Mason.
  Part 2 (ans: Charlotte Bronte):
    This author published her novel about the governess Jane Eyre under the pen name Currer Bell.
  Part 3 (ans: Sarah Fielding [prompt on Fielding] (she is Henry Fielding's sister)):
    This earlier female novelist wrote The Governess, or The Little Female Academy, the first English-language novel explicitly aimed at children. She also wrote The History of the Countess of Dellwyn.

[B18] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's sister Bridget marries Captain Blifil, who later dies of apoplexy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Squire Allworthy):
    Name this owner of a Somerset estate who takes in Jenny's child at the beginning of the novel in which he appears.
  Part 2 (ans: Black George Seagrim):
    Squire Allworthy fires this groundskeeper for helping Tom kill a bird on his neighbor's land. Tom later impregnates this man's daughter Molly.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Squire Allworthy appears in Tom Jones, a novel by this English novelist. He parodied a Samuel Richardson novel in Shamela.

[B19] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This law was inspired by attacks on Robert Walpole such as Henry Carey's satire Chrononhotonthologos and The Beggar's Opera. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Licensing Act):
    Name this 1737 act of Parliament, finally passed after the debut of the anonymous A Vision of the Golden Rump, which gave the Lord Chamberlain power of censorship over plays, driving many leading authors to focus on novels.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    This author's play Tom Thumb also helped trigger the act; he spent the next several years writing political columns under the pseudonym "Sir Hercules Vinegar" before penning novels such as Shamela and Tom Jones.
  Part 3 (ans: the Paper War):
    In 1752, Fielding started The Covent-Garden Journal and declared his opposition to "hack writers," leading to this two-year exchange of literary insults that included the writing of The Hilliad andThe Smartiad.

[B20] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about English novelist Daniel Defoe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Moll Flanders):
    Defoe wrote a picturesque novel about this woman, who was born from a woman imprisoned in Newgate, before being shipped to the Americas. She marries many times, including her half-brother, but ultimately returns happy to England at the age of 70.
  Part 2 (ans: Roxana: The Fortunate Mistress):
    Defoe also wrote this novel, also about a woman, who runs through all of society by courting a prince and prostituting herself out, all the while being served by the loyal Amy.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Ian Watt argued that Defoe's novels instigated the principles "individualism" and "economic freedom" in a book length study of Defoe, Richardson and this other novelist who wrote Tom Jones.

[B21] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At one point in this novel, the title character realizes with horror that the housekeeper Mrs. Jewkes might be an atheist because she is so unwomanly. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pamela, or Virtue Rewarded):
    Identify this epistolary novel about a girl enslaved by the nobleman Mr. B. The title character's virtue is rewarded because she falls in love with Mr B as he keeps forcing himself on her.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Samuel Richardson's Pamela was satirized in this man's Shamela. He also wrote a novel about the brother of Pamela who is repeatedly hit on by Lady Booby, entitled Joseph Andrews.
  Part 3 (ans: Terry Eagleton):
    This literary critic heavily skewers Pamela in his The English Novel: An Introduction. This British critic also published Literary Theory: An Introduction and got into trouble for calling Kingsley Amis a drunken anti-semite.

[B22] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author founded a London police force called the Bow Street Runners. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    Name this author, who parodied Samuel Richardson's Pamela with Shamela and also wrote a comic novel titled Joseph Andrews. His best known novel is about a lad who falls in love with Sophia Western.
  Part 2 (ans: Tom Jones [or Tom Jones]):
    The latter novel by Fielding tells the story of this foundling, who is raised by Squire Allworthy. Eventually, it turns out that he is actually the Squire's nephew.
  Part 3 (ans: Master Blifil):
    This antagonist of Tom Jones is the son of Squire Allworthy's sister, Bridget, and a naval captain. He turns out to be Tom's half-brother because Bridget is also Tom's mother.
