=== STOCK CLUES: Joseph Andrews ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 8 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: parson [accept Parson Weems, Parson Yorick, or Parson Adams; accept curate; prompt on reverend, minister, rector, pastor, priest, cleric, or clergyman; reject "vicar" or "father"] (Joseph Andrews is by Henry Fielding.)
  - Exact word required.
  - A forgetful man with this title is chased by hunting dogs in a scene that parodies Homeric combat as his mentee dispatches them with a cudgel. [PWR]
  - Viktor Shklovsky titled his memoirs after a novel in which a man with this title receives a passport from Count B-, who mistakes him for a literary character. [PWR]
  - An Aeschylus fan with this title who mentors Pamela's "brother," Joseph Andrews, is named Abraham Adams. [PWR]
  - Another man with this title is interrupted by the word "end" as he reaches for a (*) fille de chambre. [PWR]
  - After leaving for Calais, a man with this title remembers meeting Mundungus and Smelfungus in Italy.
  - A Sentimental Journey is narrated by a Laurence Sterne character with this title named Yorick.
  - For 10 points, give this title held by the author of a fable about George Washington and a cherry tree, surnamed Weems. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In her biography of Samuel Richardson, Anna Laetitia Barbauld proposed that Richardson's correspondence with this author began earlier than typically thought. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sarah Fielding [prompt on Fielding]):
    Name this author of an early critical work on Richardson, the epistolary Remarks on Clarissa. Richardson helped publish this author's The Governess, often called the first children's novel, and praised this author's most famous novel, The Adventures of David Simple.
  Part 2 (ans: Pamela [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, Pamela Andrews; prompt on Shamela]):
    Richardson's goodwill did not extend to Sarah Fielding's brother Henry, who mocked Richardson's novel about "Virtue Rewarded" in a parody calling this title woman a "Sham."
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Andrews [or The History of the Adventures of Joseph Andrews and of his Friend Mr. Abraham Adams]):
    Sarah Fielding likely wrote Leonora's letter to Horatio in this other Henry Fielding novel that satirizes Pamela. This novel's protagonist travels with the Aeschylus-obsessed parson Abraham Adams.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel in this genre fictionalizes the life of the "Thief-Taker General," Jonathan Wild. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: picaresque novel):
    Name this genre that also includes a novel whose protagonist conflicts with Master Blifil and impregnates Black George's daughter Molly. This genre features low-class roguish adventurers who survive by their wits.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Andrews):
    At the end of this picaresque novel, the title character is recognized as Mr. Wilson's long-lost son by a birthmark on his chest. In this novel, that character marries Fanny Goodwill after spurning Lady Booby's advances.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    This author of Joseph Andrews attacked Samuel Richardson in his satire Shamela and also wrote Tom Jones.

[B3] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these two authors poked fun at the length and subtitle of a novel by the other in a scene where Mrs. Booby exclaims "Your virtue? I'll never survive it!" after being rebuffed by her young male employee. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Richardson AND Henry Fielding):
    Name these two 18th-century novelists. One of these authors introduced the character Mrs. Booby as the sister of the other's character Mr. B--- in a novel also featuring the good-natured squire Adams.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph [accept Joseph Andrews]):
    Fielding invented a character with this first name and the surname Andrews in a comic novel that subverted many of the tropes of Richardson's Pamela. The Fielding character with this name is partly inspired by an Old Testament figure with this name who has a colorful coat.
  Part 3 (ans: Middlemarch: A Study in Provincial Life (by George Eliot)):
    The narrator of this other novel remarks that their own "copious remarks and digressions" resemble that of the narrator of Joseph Andrews. Gordon Haight has argued that the true hero of this novel is Mary Garth, the subject of a bizarre 1853 volume in which all parts of the novel she appears in not featuring her were excised.
