=== STOCK CLUES: Philip Glass ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 68 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 20 found, 60 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - In one piece, this composer sets lyrics by Suzanne Vega, accompanied by a string quartet, in the movement "Freezing." This composer's string sextet is a reduction of his strings-only Third Symphony, which was premiered by Dennis Russell Davies. [PWR]
  - This composer's second string quartet was based on incidental music for a Samuel Beckett novella.
  - This composer of Songs from Liquid Days used violin and organ as the only non-vocal instruments in a movement that ends with a speaker saying, (*) "Impossible, you say." This composer included the movements "Body Building" and a "Blood Oath" in his third string quartet, which adapts music from his score for Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters.
  - For 10 points, name this composer who used chamber-like scoring for "Knee Play 5" in his opera Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - This composer makes a cameo alongside Zoe, Nick, and Kate in the final bistro scenes of a film featuring operatic music that riffs off "Count On My Love." The Kronos Quartet recorded parts of a film score by this composer that includes tracks such as "November 25: Morning" and "November 25: The Last Day," conducted by Michael Riesman.
  - This composer of the score for No Reservations collaborated with Errol Morris on scores for documentaries such as A Brief History of Time and The Thin Blue Line.
  - Bass vocalists chant the five-syllable title of a score by this composer for a Godfrey Reggio film named after the Hopi word for "life out of balance." This composer wrote the scores for Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters and a trilogy of films starting with Koyaanisqatsi (koh-YAH-nis-KAHT-see).
  - For 10 points, name this film composer also known for Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - A harp is introduced to match the piano bass line in the last section of a film score by this composer that also includes the section "Vanessa and the Changelings." That film score by this composer was rearranged for solo piano by Michael Riesman, who conducts this composer's namesake ensemble. [PWR]
  - In a different film, this composer wrote an opening piece in which an ominous descending four-note organ ostinato plays while bass vocalists repeatedly chant a (*) five-syllable word. [PWR]
  - This composer, who was nominated for an Academy Award for his score for The Hours, scored an apocalyptic Godfrey Reggio movie whose name in Hopi translates to "life out of balance." This composer's Third String Quartet is an adaptation of his music for the film Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters.
  - For 10 points, name this minimalist composer of Koyaanisqatsi  who also created the opera Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 DECAF (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: string quartets by Philip Glass
  - Note to players: composer and type of piece required. [PWR]
  - The finale to one of these pieces opens with a melody consisting of eight E's, four D's, two C's, and triplets D, C, D. [PWR]
  - That second of these pieces is named for a novella the composer describes as a "prose poem." Geoffrey Hendricks commissioned the fourth of these pieces, which premiered at the (+) Hauser Gallery. [PWR]
  - The most recent of these pieces premiered in January 2022 and was inspired by King Lear. [PWR]
  - The fourth of these pieces was written in memory of the artist Brian Buczak, while the second was originally written as incidental music to a (*) Mabou Mines production of Samuel Beckett's Company. [PWR]
  - The third of these works was extracted from the soundtrack to Mishima, where it was performed by Kronos.
  - For 10 points, name this set of nine minimalist chamber works by the composer of Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass (the unnamed album is Glassworks)
  - Maki Namekawa recorded a complete cycle of this composer's piano etudes, the first six of which were written for the 50th birthday of Namekawa's husband, conductor Dennis Russell Davies. [PWR]
  - Traditional cadenzas are replaced with a "Prologue" and three "Songs" in this man's second violin concerto. [PWR]
  - This man created a special "Sony Walkman mix" for one of his albums, which utilized flutes and saxophone on tracks like "Floe" and "Island". [PWR]
  - A trilogy of experimental films directed by (*) Godfrey Reggio was scored by this man, the first one titled for a Hopi word meaning "life out of balance." This composer used his signature style of repetitive arpeggios for film scores including The Hours and Koyaanisqatsi. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this minimalist American composer, also known for Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - This composer's Piano Concerto No. 1 quotes Maria! hilf doch mir , a church song from Tyrol. [PWR]
  - Pearl Jam typically opens concerts by playing a solo piano piece by this composer titled "Metamorphosis Two". [PWR]
  - The second movement of this composer's Piano Concerto No. 2 begins with a duet between the soloist and a Native American flute. [PWR]
  - Orange Mountain Music has produced many works by this composer of the album Solo Piano, including his (*) Concerto Project. [PWR]
  - Works by Lucinda Childs and Christopher Knowles feature in an opera by this composer whose three sections, titled "Train," "Trial," and "Spaceship," are demarcated by intermezzi in which solfege syllables are chanted, called "knee plays".
  - For 10 points, name this minimalist composer whose Portrait Trilogy includes Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: ringing a bell [or ringing a doorbell; accept tolling a bell; accept a knell; prompt on jumps or breaks in time by asking "what sound accompanies those jumps in time?"; reject "ringing of a telephone"] (The play mentioned in the first line is Philip Glass Buys a Loaf of Bread.)
  - This event signals the beginning and end of a passage of a play in which two women repeatedly sing phrases like "think it is" and "lovelovelove" and quickly ask, "Philip need help you sir?" In a different play, this event occurs after a man misidentifies Hemingway as the author of The Sound and the Fury. [PWR]
  - A character in another play states, "experience teaches us that" when one observes this event, "it's because there is never anyone there," but is proven wrong by the entrance of the (*) Fire Chief.
  - The line "Excuse me.
  - Is this chair taken?" follows the first of many instances of this event that "reset" a conversation between Betty and Bill in David Ives's play Sure Thing.
  - The first line of "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" mentions one of these events that marks the "parting day." For 10 points, Victor Hugo's Quasimodo performs what action at Notre Dame Cathedral to signal the hour? [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - The title figure of a piece by this composer only begins to sing after 20 minutes on stage, and is accompanied by a female counterpart who sings lower notes than he does. [PWR]
  - A piano concerto by this composer contains a part for Native American flute and contains movements titled The Vision, The Land, and Sacagewea. [PWR]
  - The phrase "Open are the double doors of the horizon; unlocked are its bolts" opens a composition by this man that includes an off-stage chorus singing (*) Psalm 104.
  - Wood-blocks and glockenspiels are included in this composer's Mesoamerican-inspired Symphony No. 7, known as the Toltec.
  - This composer included musical settings of the Hymn to the Sun and the Book of the Dead in an opera titled for a pharaoh.
  - For 10 points, name this composer who included Akhenaten and Satyagraha as two parts of his "Portrait Trilogy." [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - Timpanists are required to play with their hands to create a higher pitch at one point in this composers Concerto Fantasy for Two Timpanists and Orchestra.
  - The same four note motif closes both this composer's Harpsichord Concerto as well as his Tirol Piano Concerto.
  - A visit to New York by the Dalai Lama inspired this composer's Mad Rush and he took inspiration from an Alan Ginsburg poem to write Wichita Sutra Vortex.
  - This man wrote "Low" and "Heroes" symphonies based on David Bowie albums.
  - For 10 points identify this composer whose portrait trilogy of operas includes Akhnaten and Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - In one opera by this man, Miss Schlesen and Kallenbach sing a duet in which they describe "how the saints attained success"; that work's third act contains the "Newcastle March". [PWR]
  - One opera by this musician is largely a monologue by a man named "M" on a holographic set, detailing how no one believes that he's met aliens; that collaboration with David Henry Hwang is entitled 1000 Airplanes on the Roof. [PWR]
  - A section of another one of his operas contains text by (*) Lucinda Childs read from a bed and is called "Prematurely Air-conditioned Supermarket". [PWR]
  - That work by this composer is interspersed with Christopher Knowles' "Knee Plays," is divided into the sections "Train", "Trial", and "Field/Spaceship", and has a solo violinist dress as the title figure.
  - For 10 points, name this composer whose "Portrait Trilogy" includes Akhenaten, Satyagraha (SAT-yuh-GRAH-hah), and Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - This composer was instrumental in the relocation from Paris of the Mabou Mines theater company, for whom he wrote Music for Voices as well as a string quartet accompanying a performance of Samuel Beckett's Company.
  - This composer attempted to popularize his work with a six-movement chamber composition including movements titled "Floe," "Island," and "Rubric." He wrote for a characteristic ensemble of four saxophones, two flutes, three electric organs, and female voice with his Music in Twelve Parts.
  - This composer scored Martin Scorsese's Kundun as well as a film directed by Godfrey Reggio whose title is a Hopi word meaning "life out of balance." For 10 points, name this minimalist composer of Koyaanisqatsi also known for such operas as Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass [or Philip Morris Glass]
  - An opera by this composer ends with an aria by the tenor lead, consisting entirely of thirty repetitions of an ascending Phrygian scale. [PWR]
  - In another opera by this composer, the countertenor lead sings a second-act hymn beginning "Thou dost appear beautiful," and an offstage chorus quotes Psalm 104. [PWR]
  - At the start of another of his operas, a white square in the lower-right corner of the stage highlights two people seated at desks. [PWR]
  - That opera has a solo violinist dressed as the (*) title character and includes a chorus that counts beats and sings solfege syllables. [PWR]
  - This composer's collaboration with Robert Wilson has scenes like "Train," "Trial," and "Spaceship" spaced between five knee plays.
  - For 10 points, name this minimalist composer of Akhnaten, Satyagraha, and Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T13] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - A six-movement work of chamber music by this composer includes movements entitled "Floe," "Rubric," and "Facades." His first cello concerto, written for Julian Lloyd Webber, is one of the eight concertos collected in his Concerto Project.
  - This composer's album Solo Piano ends with the tracks "Mad Rush" and "Wichita Sutra Vortex," which follow five tracks named "Metamorphosis." This composer wrote Music in Twelve Parts for his namesake ensemble.
  - He scored a work whose name is Hopi for "life out of balance," Koyaanisqatsi.
  - This composer's "Portrait Trilogy" includes operas about Gandhi and Akhenaten, as well as an opera with five intermezzos called "knee plays." For 10 points, name this minimalist composer known for his film scores and his opera Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Philip Glass
  - One of this composer's friends mistook the term "parts" to mean number of movements when he actually meant number of musical lines, leading to his three-hour work Music in Twelve Parts, composed several years after his Music in Similar Motion.
  - This man's fourth symphony derives some material from a song which states "I wish you could swim/ like the dolphins." In addition to his (*) David Bowie-influenced "Heroes" and "Low" symphonies, this man wrote a string quartet based on his music for a film about Yukio Mishima.
  - This man also composed the score for a film by Godfrey Reggio which consists of time-lapse and slow-motion footage of traffic patterns and clouds among others.
  - For 10 points, identify this contemporary composer who wrote the music for the film Koyaanisqatsi and the opera Einstein on the Beach. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2014 this choreographer became only the second in New York City Ballet history to be given the title of Resident Choreographer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Justin Peck):
    Name this choreographer who choreographed the dance sequences of Steven Spielberg's 2021 West Side Story film. This choreographer won a Tony Award in 2023 for his adaptation of Sufjan ("SOOF-yahn") Stevens's Illinoise.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Peck's first work for the NYCB was In Creases, which was set to this composer's Four Movements for Two Pianos. Other works by this composer include the opera Einstein on the Beach.
  Part 3 (ans: Rodeo):
    In 2015, Peck created a one-act ballet based on the "Four Dance Episodes" suite from this other ballet. This ballet quotes the western tune "I Ride an Old Paint" in its "Saturday Night Waltz" movement.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A composer with this surname played the solo organ part in Aaron Copland's First Symphony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boulanger [accept Nadia Boulanger; accept Lili Boulanger]):
    Give this surname of the composer of Les Sirenes("lay see-REN"). That composer with this surname used a whole-tone melody to move from a C major to B-flat minor chord in a setting of a Buddhist prayer.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Among Nadia Boulanger's many notable pupils is this composer whose Low and Heroes symphonies are based on music by David Bowie. This composer's third string quartet is named Mishima.
  Part 3 (ans: film scores [accept film soundtracks; accept descriptions of music for film; accept movies or cinema in place of "film"]):
    Glass's Mishima quartet is based on one of his works in this genre, which he also wrote for Koyaanisqatsi. Erich Wolfgang Korngold wrote many works in this genre after moving to Hollywood.

[B3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera's third act, a tour guide declares "there is nothing left" of temples constructed by its title figure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Akhnaten):
    Name this minimalist opera from the Portrait Trilogy, in which an offstage chorus sings Psalm 104. The Phelim McDermott staging of this opera is known for its use of juggling background performers.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Akhnaten is part of this American minimalist composer's Portrait Trilogy of operas, which also includes Satyagraha and Einstein on the Beach.
  Part 3 (ans: "Hymn to the Sun"):
    Though Akhnaten features arias with libretti in Hebrew, Akkadian, and ancient Egyptian, this hymn from Act II of the opera is always performed in the audience's native language.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer these questions about minimalist septets.
  Part 1 (ans: Shakers [or United Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearing]):
    John Adams wrote a septet meant to imitate rippling water titled [these people] Loops. The song "Simple Gifts" was written by these people.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    This composer wrote a Music in Eight Parts for two soprano saxophones, viola, cello, and three electric organs. This composer also created the opera Satyagraha.
  Part 3 (ans: Terry Riley [or Terrence Mitchell Riley]):
    This composer's What the River Said is scored for baroque violin, baroque cello, surbahar, mridangam, female voice, male voice and synthesizer. He also composed A Rainbow in Curved Air.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the use of Latin in 20th- and 21st-century opera, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Igor Stravinsky [or Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky]):
    Jean Cocteau wrote a libretto in French, which was then translated into Latin, for this composer's 1927 opera Oedipus Rex.
  Part 2 (ans: malo):
    After his Latin lessons, the boy Miles sings an aria in which he repeats this word before phrases like "I would rather be" and "in the apple tree" in Benjamin Britten's The Turn of the Screw.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Martina Winkel wrote the libretto to this composer's opera Kepler in German and Latin. This composer used the extinct languages of Akkadian and Ancient Egyptian in parts of his opera Akhnaten and used Sanskrit in Satyagraha.

[B6] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this composer's recent opera Great Scott, the American Opera Company plans a performance of Rosa Dolorosa, Figlia di Pompei on the same night in which the local NFL team, the Grizzlies, is competing in the Super Bowl. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jake Heggie):
    Name this composer of the operas Dead Man Walking and Moby-Dick.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Star-Spangled Banner" [or answers indicating the United States national anthem] (The performance was by Whitney Houston.)):
    The title character's younger rival in Great Scott, Tatyana Bakst, performs this song in a bel canto style. A landmark January 1991 performance of this song changed its time signature from 3/4 to 4/4 on advice from Rickey Minor.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Heggie is second to this man in the number of performances for American-composed operas. He worked on the score for the 2015 Fantastic Four film and composed the opera Einstein on the Beach.

[B7] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a Los Angeles Opera staging of this work, dancers in suspenders stand on scaffolding in front of LED circles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Einstein on the Beach):
    Name this opera in which lines like "These are the days my friends" intersperse a chorus of counting numbers. A bus driver narrates a story of love at the end of one of this opera's five "Knee Plays."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Einstein on the Beach was written by this American composer of the operas Satyagraha and Akhnaten.
  Part 3 (ans: on the roof [or equivalents; accept 1000 Airplanes On the Roof; accept The Ox on the Roof: The Nothing-Doing Bar or Le bœuf sur le toit]):
    In a one-person Philip Glass opera titled for "1000 Airplanes" in one of these locations, the narrator describes meeting aliens. A Brazilian-influenced ballet by Darius Milhaud ("dar-YOOS mee-YO") is titled for a certain farm animal in this location.

[B8] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Three of this composer's symphonies are based on the albums that form David Bowie's ("BOH-ee's") Berlin Trilogy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Glass [or Philip Morris Glass]):
    Name this American minimalist composer whose Portrait Trilogy of operas includes Einstein on the Beach.
  Part 2 (ans: Koyaanisqatsi ("ko-yah-niss-KAHT-see")):
    Glass composed the score for this experimental film, in which the track "Pruit Igoe" is played during the destruction of the namesake housing complex. Its title means "life out of balance" in Hopi.
  Part 3 (ans: twelve [or 12; accept Music in Twelve Parts or Symphony No. 12]):
    Glass's symphony of this number, based on Bowie's Lodger, premiered in 2019, and his piece Music in [this many] Parts is in fact for ten musicians, as its title refers to it having this many movements. This is the number of notes in each repeated bar of Steve Reich's Piano Phase and the number of repeats of each bar of Clapping Music.

[B9] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright often used the ringing of a bell to "reset" scenes in plays like Variations on the Death of Trotsky and Sure Thing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Ives):
    Name this American playwright, who included Variations on the Death of Trotsky and Sure Thing in his one-act play collection All in the Timing.
  Part 2 (ans: Hamlet [or The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark]):
    All in the Timing includes the play Words, Words, Words, which, as its title suggests, is about three monkeys with typewriters attempting to type out this Shakespeare tragedy about a Danish prince.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass [accept Philip Glass Buys a Loaf of Bread]):
    Another play in All in the Timing depicts this man as he "buys a loaf of bread," and makes fun of him by including lines such as "Go! Go! Go! Go! Time! Time! Time! Time!".

[B10] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Some scholars have suggested that Alexander Borodin's second piece in this genre is a 20th anniversary gift to his wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: string quartet):
    Name this genre, other examples of which include a work that Dvorak composed in Spillville, Iowa shortly after completing the New World Symphony.
  Part 2 (ans: Kronos quartet):
    This San Francisco-based string quartet has had over 900 works commissioned for them over its 40-year history. This quartet also performed the soundtrack for Requiem for a Dream.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Another film score performed by the Kronos quartet was for this composer's score to the 1931 film Dracula. This minimalist composer also wrote Einstein on the Beach.

[B11] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera features a celesta player doubling the synthesizer and notably lacks violins, giving the strings a stronger tone. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Akhnaten):
    Name this minimalist opera whose title character is frequently doubled by the trumpet. The coronation in this opera features a hymn sung in Egyptian.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Akhnaten is an opera by this American composer, who grouped it with Satyagraha and Einstein on the Beach in his "Portrait Trilogy."
  Part 3 (ans: countertenor):
    The role of Akhnaten is played by an actor of this vocal type. This vocal type has an almost identical range to the female contralto, which means that Akhnaten sometimes sings higher notes than his wife Nefertiti, a contralto.

[B12] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The third movement of this piece is based on the rhythm of a traditional folk dance called the halling. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edvard Grieg's Piano Concerto in A minor [or Grieg's Opus 16; prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this concerto which begins with a timpani roll that dramatically grows louder and louder, until the soloist enters with a crashing A minor chord.
  Part 2 (ans: George Gershwin):
    A solo timpani plays the opening notes of the F major piano concerto by this American composer of Rhapsody in Blue.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass [or Philip Morris Glass]):
    This composer wrote a Concerto Fantasy for two solo timpanists. His collection Solo Piano includes five pieces titled "Metamorphosis" and incidental music for Allen Ginsberg's poem "Wichita Vortex Sutra".

[B13] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Paul Barnes transcribed a suite for piano from this composer's opera Orphee, and premiered this composer's second piano concerto. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Glass [or Philip Morris Glass]):
    Name this composer, whose other piano music includes "Mad Rush," "Modern Love Waltz," and five pieces called "Metamorphosis."
  Part 2 (ans: etudes [accept the Black Key Etude or the Revolutionary Etude]):
    In 2014, Glass finished his twenty piano pieces in this genre, which are intended to allow pianists to practice a particular skill. Chopin composed ones nicknamed "Black Key" and "Revolutionary."
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Scriabin [or Alexander Nikolayevich Scriabin]):
    Vladimir Horowitz frequently performed this Russian composer's etude in D-sharp minor, his Opus 8 Number 12. Like Chopin, he followed the circle of fifths to progress through the keys of his 24 Opus 11 preludes.

[B14] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: According to Operabase.com, no opera by an American composer was among the 100 most performed over the last five years. Answer some questions about operas that got close, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Candide):
    This Leonard Bernstein operetta was the most performed American opera. Lillian Hellman wrote the words to its song "Eldorado," while Richard Wilbur of all people wrote the lyrics to its often excerpted "Glitter and Be Gay."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    This American is the most-performed living composer. He wrote Einstein on the Beach.
  Part 3 (ans: Jake Heggie):
    This composer of Moby Dick is performed more frequently than John Adams. He teamed with Terrence McNally on Dead Man Walking, his popular opera about a nun counseling death row inmates.

[B15] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera features scenes such as Spaceship and Night Train while "Knee Plays" precede each act, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Einstein on the Beach):
    Identify this opera in which the audience is welcome to come and go as they please - the first in its composer's portrait trilogy
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Glass):
    This minimalist composer of Einstein on the Beach completed his portrait trilogy with the operas Akhenaten and Satyagraha
  Part 3 (ans: The Trial):
    Glass' most recent opera was based on this unfinished novel. It premiered in 2014 with a libretto written by playwright Christopher Hampton.

[B16] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera begins with women writing equations in the air and later features a man delivering a soliloquy on love from a bus. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Einstein on the Beach):
    Name this five-hour opera without a plot, which has "knee plays" occurring between its acts, which include "Train" and "Trial". Its music references the pre-existing songs "Mr. Bojangles" and "I Feel the Earth Move."
  Part 2 (ans: The Perfect American):
    This other opera by the same composer as Einstein on the Beach depicts Walt Disney on his death bed; it discusses the conspiracy theory that his body was cryogenically stored.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Einstein on the Beach and The Perfect American were written by this minimalist American composer of the opera Satyagraha. This influential minimalist also scored The Hours.

[B17] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Now for your bonuses on Minimalist composers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Glass):
    This American minimalist composer and keyboard player in his eponymous 'Ensemble' wrote the 'Portrait Trilogy', a series of operas based on the lives of Akhenaten, Gandhi, and Albert Einstein.
  Part 2 (ans: Steve Reich):
    This composer and Juilliard classmate of Glass is known for his use of phased loops and recorded dialogue to create melodies, a style exemplified in his 1988 composition 'Different Trains'.
  Part 3 (ans: Arvo Part):
    This Estonian Minimalist composer is best known for his 'tintinnabuli' compositional style, featuring repeated arpeggiated triads and first used in his works Fur Alina and Spiegel im Spiegel. He also composed the Cantus in Memoriam Benjamin Britten.

[B18] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Confusingly, this instrument is sometimes called a glockenspiel and its total weight of over 100 tons makes it the heaviest of extant musical instruments. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: carillon):
    Name this percussion instrument that consists of 23 bronze bells played with a keyboard.
  Part 2 (ans: Vincent Persichetti):
    This composer wrote his Parable V for carillon. His other works include Flower Songs and Symphony for Band.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Persichetti taught this minimalist composer of Satyagraha and Einstein on the Beach.

[B19] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: His first symphony has a first movement titled "Subterraneans," while his fourth symphony has six movements. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Name this composer of such works as the Low Symphony and Heroes Symphony, each inspired by a David Bowie album of the same name.
  Part 2 (ans: string quartets [prompt on partial answers]):
    Philip Glass's works of this type include ones subtitled Company, Mishima, and Dracula, all recorded at some point by Kronos. At about the same time, Karlheinz Stockhausen wrote one of these pieces in which each performer sits in a separate helicopter.
  Part 3 (ans: Koyaanisqatsi):
    Glass's work in the genre of film score includes the score for this film, subtitled "A Life Out of Balance." It is the first in a trilogy, and mostly consists of slow-motion and time-lapse footage of cities and natural landscapes.

[B20] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about American minimalist composers, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Perhaps the most famous living American minimalist is this composer of the Portrait Trilogy of operas consisting of Einstein on the Beach, Satyagraha, and Akhnaten.
  Part 2 (ans: Steve Reich):
    This other American minimalist tends to make use of recorded speech in his compositions, such as the preaching of a Pentecostal minister in his It's Gonna Rain and interviews about World War II in Different Trains.
  Part 3 (ans: phasing):
    Steve Reich often employs this technique, in which two instruments play the same music in slightly different tempi, and thus gradually become out of sync.
