=== STOCK CLUES: Burgundy ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 110 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 30 found, 90 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Mary of Burgundy [or Mary the Rich or Marie de Bourgogne or Maria van Bourgondie]
  - After dying in an accident, this ruler legendarily reappeared as a shade when summoned by Johannes Trithemius  in a Faust-like episode.
  - This ruler's spouse fictionalized a chivalric journey to marry this ruler in the Arthurian-inspired poem Theuerdank.
  - Margaret of York displayed this woman's infant son naked to a crowd in order to disprove rumors, spread by a king dubbed the "Universal Spider," that the boy was a girl.
  - This ruler preserved regional freedoms and abolished the Parliament of Mechelen  upon signing the "Great Privilege." This first wife of Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I inherited a vast amount of wealth after her father's death at the 1477 Battle of Nancy .
  - For 10 points, name this ruler, the daughter of Charles the Bold, and last Valois  duchess of Burgundy. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Burgundy [or word forms like Burgundian; accept Bourgogne or Borgonha or Burgundiae]
  - Word forms are acceptable.
  - A dynasty with this name was the first to use a cross made of five blue shields with white dots that is still used on Portugal's flag.
  - In his book The Autumn of the Middle Ages, Johan Huizinga  argues a state with this name made of patchwork fiefdoms sponsored an "overripe" chivalric court culture that awaited the Renaissance.
  - An upper and lower state with this name were merged to form a kingdom sometimes called Arelat within the Holy Roman Empire.
  - A cadet branch of the Valois  dynasty ruled a virtually-independent duchy with this name that often changed sides during the Hundred Years' War under dukes like Philip the Good and Charles the Bold.
  - For 10 points, what name given to many different states in eastern France is synonymous with a dark shade of red associated with its wine? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Answer: Burgundy [or Bourgogne; accept Bourgogne-Franche-Comte; prompt on BFC; prompt on Dijon before read by asking "what larger region is that part of?"; prompt on Cote-d'Or by asking "what larger region is that part of?"]
  - An Easter dish from this region, sometimes prepared by setting cubed pork shoulder and calf's feet gelatin in a terrine , is called parsleyed ham. [PWR]
  - Felix Kir, the mayor of a city in this region, popularized a mixed drink made with local blackcurrant liqueur.
  - In the 2010s, this area was reunited with Franche-Comte , its free county, to form a new official region. [PWR]
  - The (*) "climats"  and "terroirs"  of this region comprise a UNESCO World Heritage Site, reflecting the development of agricultural practices in monasteries around its historical capital of Dijon .
  - This region names a type of beef stew made with carrots, onions, and mushrooms, sometimes made with a sauce using this region's namesake dry, red wine.
  - For 10 points, what region of east-central France gives its name to a red-purple color? [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Burgundy [or Bourgogne; accept the Duchy of Burgundy; accept Burgundian State or Etat Bourguignon or Bourgondische Rijk]
  - A ruler of this state refused to shave after he lost a battle during which the Three Brothers jewelry was stolen from his tent. [PWR]
  - The creation of the Order of the Golden Fleece celebrated the wedding of a ruler of this state to Isabella of Portugal. [PWR]
  - This state's namesake Romanesque style of architecture is exemplified by the Hospices de Beaune, an almshouse founded by this state's Chancellor Nicolas Rolin.
  - This state's last ruler, (*) Mary the Rich, married Maximilian I.
  - A ruler of this Valois duchy ransomed Joan of Arc to the English for her heresy trial; that ruler later signed the Treaty of Arras, which resulted in this duchy's lands being divided between France and the Habsburgs.
  - Philip the Good and Charles the Bold ruled, for 10 points, what duchy whose wine production inspired the name of a dark red-purple color? [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Burgundy [or Bourgogne; accept Burgundian Circle, or Burgundian State, or War of the Burgundian Succession, or Cross of Burgundy, or Duchy of Burgundy, or Valois Burgundy; prompt on Franche-Comte; reject "France" or "Flanders"]
  - For several hundred years, part of this state's lands were a "free county" due to rights won by its ruler Reginald III .
  - In the Holy Roman Empire, a "circle" of realms named for this state included the "Generality Lands" pacified by the Guelders  Wars.
  - One of this state's princesses signed the "Great Privilege" restoring the rights of cities after her succession was affirmed by the Joyous Entry of 1477.
  - The Spanish Habsburgs used a flag of a red "X" shape on a white background called this state's "Cross." The war of succession over its lands was settled by the Treaty of Senlis , which concluded hostilities over the Seventeen Provinces and determined Mary the Rich's inheritance.
  - By the Treaty of Arras , Maximilian I  gained the County of Flanders from this duchy, while the rest went to Louis XI's  France.
  - For 10 points, what duchy  was partitioned after the death of Charles the Bold? [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 MUSES II (2021) | Diff: 10 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Baxter [accept Ron Burgundy's dog; accept the dog from the Anchorman franchise; prompt on Burgundy]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - This character is the sole witness to a failed suicide attempt of a man who states,"I'm going the way of the ancient samurai who, when dishonored, would hang themselves from a fluorescent light." In one film, this character saves his friends from death by telling the killer that he is friends with the killer's cousin Katow-jo. [PWR]
  - When this character uses a different language to say that he pooped in the refrigerator and ate a whole wheel of cheese, he is angrily told, "You know I don't speak (*) Spanish!" At the end of one film, this character saves his best friend from an attack by a shark named Doby. [PWR]
  - After being hit in the face with a burrito, a Jack Black-played motorcyclist drop kicks this character off of a bridge.
  - This non-human character saves his owner and Veronica Corningstone from grizzly bears at the San Diego Zoo.
  - For 10 points, name or describe this pet owned by a Will Ferrell-portrayed newscaster in a comedic film franchise. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Guerrilla History (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Duke of Burgundy [or duc de Bourgogne; prompt on Burgundy; prompt on Bourgogne; do not accept any title other than "Duke"]
  - A dynasty that held this title was founded by the second son of Bivin of Gorze, Richard the Justicar, who created a state from the lands of his brother Boso. [PWR]
  - The Holy Roman Empire contained lands split off from this title known as the "Free County." A holder of the title started a civil war after assassinating the Duke of Orleans and vied for the French throne with England and his mentally handicapped cousin Charles VI. [PWR]
  - (*) Mary the Rich inherited this title after the death of another holder in the battle of Nancy, which led to Habsburg rule of the Low Countries.
  - For 10 points, identify this historical region of France which names a title held by Philip the Good and Charles the Bold. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Book of Hours [or Heures; or Stundenbuch; prompt on illuminated manuscript before mentioned; prompt on labors of the months or miniature or illustration by asking "what type of larger work is it from?"; the lead in is from the Hours of Marie of Burgundy and the second clue is from Tres Riches Heures du Duc de Berry]
  - In one of these artworks, the Virgin and Child appear in a Gothic cathedral that is connected via an enormous window to a private chapel in which a woman sits with a dog in her lap, reading a book.
  - In one of these artworks, a cut-away view of a hut reveals a man and a woman warming their exposed genitals beside a fire.
  - The list of the approximately seven surviving "black" artworks of this kind that have been partly or fully soaked in dark dye sometimes includes an example of them named for Mary of Burgundy.
  - An artist known as "Hand G," who may be Jan van Eyck, decorated one of these artworks named for Turin and Milan, which unusually includes a missal.
  - A lunette depicting the procession of the solar chariot and signs of the zodiac appears above each of twelve illustrations of the months in the best-known example of this genre.
  - For 10 points, a "very rich" example of what genre of illuminated manuscript was created for the Duke of Berry by the Limbourg brothers? [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Duke of Burgundy [or Dux Burgundiae]
  - When a holder of this position appointed his son David as Bishop of Utrecht, he reignited a war in which the Hooks, who supported Jacqueline of Hainaut , fought the Cod faction. [PWR]
  - A holder of this position enlisted the theologian Jean Petit  to defend an assassination that he had perpetrated, which triggered the Cabochien  revolt. [PWR]
  - A group led by Bernard VII of Armagnac  fought holders of this position during a civil war started by the assassination of (*) Louis I of Orleans .
  - The Battle of Nancy  brought an end to Valois  possession of this title, whose holders such as John the Fearless frequently switched sides during the Hundred Years War.
  - For 10 points, give this title held by Philip the Good and Charles the Bold. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Jakob (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Burgundy (accept Bourgogne )
  - One duke of this region built a prank palace that contained, among other things, trap doors that would dump soot and flour on people entering rooms. [PWR]
  - One ruler from this region murdered the Duke of Orleans, and (*) this region was divided into "Upper", "Middle", and "Lower" administrative circles in the Holy Roman Empire. [PWR]
  - One duke of this region's nickname can be translated as "rash", but he is normally spoken of in historical records as "Charles the Bold".
  - An army from this region was responsible for capturing Joan of Arc.
  - For ten points, name this region known for its distinctively-hued wine once led by Philip the Good and John the Fearless. [GIVE]

[T11] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Burgundy
  - A prince and princess from this region married a princess and a prince from Bavaria in a double wedding held at Cambrai.
  - In a phase of the Hook and Cod wars, the conservative Hooks supported Jacqueline of Bavaria while the Cods supported a ruler of this region.
  - That man established the Order of the Golden Fleece here after his marriage to Isabella of Portugal.
  - A leader of this region put down several rebellions by the city of Liege and forged an alliance with England by marrying Margaret of York.
  - A duke of this region supported the League of the Public Weal against his longtime rival Louis XI before his death at the Battle of Nancy.
  - For 10 points, name this region in France ruled by John the Fearless, Philip the Good, and Charles the Bold. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 SHEIKH (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Duke of Burgundy [or duc de Bourgogne]
  - A ruler with this title brought an artist with him on his trip abroad to marry a Portuguese bride, a woman whom a different artist painted in a portrait with the words "Persica Sibylla" on it. [PWR]
  - Miniature statures of mourners were created for the tombs of rulers of this title by sculptors like Jean de la Huerta. [PWR]
  - A ruler with this title ordered the construction of a Carthusian monastery as a burial site for his dynasty. [PWR]
  - Another ruler with this title farmed out a substantial portion of his tax income to the Italian cloth merchant Giovanni (*) Arnolfini. [PWR]
  - Musical settings of L'homme arme, the favorite song of a ruler with this title, may have been prompted by a call for a crusade by a ruler with this title that was promoted by the Feast of the Pheasant.
  - That ruler with this title patronized Jan van Eyck from 1425 until his death.
  - For 10 points, identify this title held by Philip the Good. [GIVE]

[T13] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Duchy of Burgundy (or Duche de Bourgogne)
  - One ruler of this polity dismissed a group of advisers named the Marmosets in order to secure a regency, and it was once occupied by a highwayman nicknamed the "Archpriest," Arnaut de Cervole. [PWR]
  - One lord of this polity, whose personal motto il me tarde or "I look forward" was on his seal, protected Pierre de Creon after he had stolen 100,000 francs from the Duc de Anjou. [PWR]
  - Another had his cousin Louis of Orleans hacked to death by street thugs and then stole his mistress Isabeau. [PWR]
  - Its monarch was murdered on the Montereau (*) bridge by agents of the Dauphin in 1419. [PWR]
  - That man, John the Fearless, had seized Paris after Agincourt.
  - Another lord of this polity, who signed the Peace of Arras in alliance with France in 1435, was Philip the Good.
  - It lost its independence after the Battle of Nancy.
  - For 10 points, name this region of east and northeast France once ruled by Philip the Bold. [GIVE]

[T14] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Burgundy [or Bourgogne]
  - Alain Chartier denounced an institution founded in this region for naming itself after a pagan object, which was re-identified with an item owned by Gideon.
  - This region got its name from barbarians led by Godomar and Gundobad, the latter of whom issued its namesake law code in the 5th century CE, and it organized the Order of the Golden Fleece.
  - One leader of this region put his brother Charles, duke of Berry, in charge of the League of the Public Weal.
  - This duchy's power faded at Nancy in 1477, when Charles the Bold died in battle against forces of the "Spider-King," Louis XI.
  - At its height, this duchy claimed land as far north as Flanders.
  - For 10 points, name this historical region of eastern France that produces dark red wine. [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Burgundy [or Bourgogne]
  - A kingdom of this name experienced a civil war between Godegesil and his brother, a king who created his namesake law code, the Lex Gundobada.
  - Two places with this same name agreed to be neutral in 1522 at Saint-Jean-de-Losne.
  - A kingdom of this region was also known as Arles, and this region fought a civil war against the Armagnacs that was ended by the Treaty of Arras.
  - Mary the Rich was the only child of this region's last Valois duke, who died in the Battle of Nancy and whose father created its Order of the Golden Fleece.
  - This name was given to a Free County, or Franche-Comte.
  - For 10 points, identify this name given to a medieval duchy ruled by John the Fearless, Philip the Good, and Charles the Bold in eastern France. [GIVE]

[T16] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Burgundy [or Bourgogne, or Burgundians]
  - One polity of this name paid 300,000 florins to subsume the lands of Arnold of Egmont, Duke of Guelders, and absorbed that land after Arnold's death. [PWR]
  - A female leader of this place undid many of its powers by signing the Great Privilege. [PWR]
  - It took its name from a post-Roman tribe led by Godomar and the law-code creator Gundobad. [PWR]
  - A party of this name which fought against the Armagnacs in the 1400s was led by John the Fearless. [PWR]
  - One duke of this place was count of Charolais while he appointed his brother to figurehead (*) the League of the Public Weal. [PWR]
  - It was dissolved after its leader was killed in the snow at Nancy.
  - That leader, Charles the Bold, lost out to France's Spider-King Louis XI, ending a Duchy of this name which also included the modern Netherlands.
  - For 10 points, give this name for a historical region of Europe which now takes up southeastern France and produces wines. [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 Chicago Open History Doubles (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Duke / Duchess of Burgundy [or duc / duchesse de Bourgogne, accept word forms that include both parts]
  - One holder of this position tried to rob Saint Anselm of Canterbury, and another claimed the title King of Thessalonica during the Sixth Crusade.
  - Richard the Justiciar was one early holder of this title from the Bosonid Dynasty.
  - One female holder of this title was Mary the Rich, who married Holy Roman Emperor Maximilian I, while another holder was assassinated by followers of the future Charles VII of France.
  - That man, John I the Fearless, had led a side named for this title in a civil war against the Armagnacs.
  - Painters like van der Weyden flourished at the court of one of these rulers, often centered at Brussels.
  - For 10 points, name this European title, famously held by Philip the Good and Charles the Bold. [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Philip III of Burgundy [or Philip the Good; or Philip le Bon; prompt on "Philip"]
  - Jacoba of Bavaria ceded three counties to this ruler after losing the very last Hook and Cod War to him.
  - Jean de Tavernier executed the miniatures for a Book of Hours copied by this ruler's scribe Jean Mielot.
  - His father was murdered at Montrereau as revenge for killing Louis of Orleans.
  - This ruler promised to lead a crusade, but never did, during the Pledge of the Pheasant, a feast held in response to the news that the Turks took Constantinople.
  - Such luminaries as Guilliame Dufay and Jan van Eyck were artists in this man's court.
  - The support of the Praguerie by this son of John the Fearless ended a short alliance that he forged with Charles VII via the Treaty of Arras.
  - In the campaign against Compeigne, his troops captured Joan of Arc and handed her to his English allies.
  - For 10 points, name this combatant in the Hundred Years War, a powerful Duke of Burgundy. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For one phase of this process, the central figure was allowed to recruit knights for a 410-day Italienzug, which local rulers could get out of by paying a tax called the Roman Month. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: coronation of the Holy Roman Emperor [accept Emperor of the Romans or Roman-German Emperor in place of "Holy Roman Emperor"; accept crowning in place of "coronation"; prompt on coronation or crowning by asking "of the holder of which title?"; prompt on King of the Romans, King of the Franks, King in Germania, Roman-German King, German King, King of Italy, or King of Burgundy by asking "what overarching title did that ruler also hold?"]):
    Name this process whose multiple steps took place in locations like Arles Cathedral and Aachen's Palatine Chapel, where St. Stephen's Purse was placed in a niche in the "archstool of the whole realm."
  Part 2 (ans: Charlemagne [or Charles the Great; or Carolus Magnus; or Karl der Große; or Charles le Grand; prompt on Charles]):
    The destination of an Italienzug was Rome, where the Holy Roman Emperor would be crowned by the pope, symbolically recalling the coronation of this King of the Franks by Leo III on Christmas Day 800.
  Part 3 (ans: Iron Crown of Lombardy [prompt on Crown of Lombardy]):
    By the reign of Henry VII in the 14th century, it was traditional for the Holy Roman Emperor to also be crowned King of Italy in Milan using this object, which supposedly contained a nail from the True Cross.

[B2] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: While working in the court of this polity, Antoine Busnois ("boon-WAH") wrote the motet In hydraulis for a nobleman from here. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Duchy of Burgundy [or Burgundian school]):
    Name this polity. Gilles Binchois ("zheel ban-shah") and Guillaume Dufay were representatives of a school of composers named for this polity.
  Part 2 (ans: sixth [or major sixth]):
    Dufay and the other Burgundian school composers were inspired by the liberal use of thirds and this interval in John Dunstaple's works. This is the interval from a C to the A directly above it.
  Part 3 (ans: cathedrals [or Notre Dame Cathedral; prompt on churches]):
    Dufay's motet Nuper rosarum flores was composed for one of these buildings in Florence. Leonin and Perotin were part of a school of polyphony named for one of these buildings, Notre Dame.

[B3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This organization divided its territories into langues ("LAHNG") whose administration was organized by nationality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Knights Hospitaller [or Order of Hospitallers; accept Order of Knights of the Hospital of Saint John in Jerusalem or Knights of Saint John or Order of Saint John; accept Knights of Malta; prompt on Knights of Rhodes]):
    Name this organization that was forced from Rhodes after an Ottoman siege. This organization was led during that siege by Philippe Villiers de L'Isle-Adam ("vill-ee-YAY de LEEL uh-DAHM").
  Part 2 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; or Charles II of Burgundy; prompt on Charles]):
    The Knights Hospitaller were granted Malta by this Holy Roman Emperor in exchange for one Maltese falcon each year. This ruler faced the Protestant Reformation and passed the Spanish throne to his son Philip II.
  Part 3 (ans: Tripoli [accept County of Tripoli]):
    Charles V gave the Knights control over this city, which they ruled until 1551. This city shares its name with a county whose ruler Raymond II gave the Knights the castle of Krak des Chevaliers in 1142.

[B4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Six "Letters of Relation" were written to a ruler with this name by the conquistador Pedro de Valdivia during his conquest of modern Chile. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V [or Charles I of Spain; or Charles of Ghent; or Archduke of Austria Charles I; or Charles II, the Duke of Burgundy and Lord of the Netherlands; accept "Carlos" or "Karl" or "Karel" or "Carles" or"Carolus" in place of "Charles"]):
    Give this name of a Holy Roman Emperor and Spanish king whose extensive dominions included Naples, Burgundy, and much of the New World.
  Part 2 (ans: Welser ("VEL-zur") family):
    Charles borrowed millions of ducats ("DUCK-its") to finance his election from the Fuggers and this other banking family from Augsburg, which claimed descent from Belisarius and founded Coro and Klein-Venedig ("kline feh-NAY-dikh") in Venezuela.
  Part 3 (ans: Seville [or Sevilla; accept Saint Isidore of Seville]):
    New World treasures reached this city, which was home to the Casa de Contratacion ("contra-tass-YON"), where the Spanish Treasure Fleet sailed from. Saint Isidore from this city authored a medieval encyclopedia.

[B5] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This country, which debated union with the Bahamas, tacitly endorsed a 2009 coup against Manuel Zelaya ("seh-LAH-yah") to protect favorable Honduran mining laws. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Canada [accept Dominion of Canada] (Little Jamaica is in Toronto and Little Burgundy is in Montreal.)):
    Name this country where Viola Desmond challenged segregation. This country's West Indian Domestic Scheme populated enclaves like Little Jamaica and Little Burgundy, the home of jazz pianist Oscar Peterson.
  Part 2 (ans: solitudes [accept Two Solitudes or Deux solitudes; accept "Briser Les Solitudes" or "Breaking Down Solitudes"]):
    Specific word required. The Haitian-Canadian governor-general Michaelle Jean ("mee-kah-ELL ZHON") gave a speech on "breaking down" these things. A 1945 Hugh MacLennan novel coined the metaphor that two of these things divide French and English Canada.
  Part 3 (ans: Pacific Ocean [or Ocean Pacifique; accept Pacific scandal or Scandale du Pacifique; accept Canadian Pacific Railway, CPR, Chemin de fer Canadien Pacifique, or CP Rail]):
    This place names a Canadian railway company that recruited many Antiguans ("ann-TEE-guns") and sent steamships to St. Kitts. It also names an 1872 scandal over John A. MacDonald's rail contracts.

[B6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This historian wrote that the Wheel of Fortune, "from which kings come tumbling with scepters and thrones," was a constant image in the mind of medieval people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Johan Huizinga):
    Name this historian, who wrote how the 15th century "inculcated the idea of death in the collective mind" in The Autumn of the Middle Ages.
  Part 2 (ans: Duchy of Burgundy):
    Huizinga wrote of the enduring myth of chivalry being instrumental in the creation of this duchy by John II. Charles the Bold ruled this duchy in eastern France.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Froissart):
    Huizinga also noted the knightly move of covering one eye while at war because a lady had closed it, which he cites from this French historian whose Chronicles covers the Hundred Years' War.

[B7] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the 15th-century kingmaker Yolande of Aragon, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Charles VII Valois [accept Charles the Victorious or Charles the Well-Served or Charles le Victorieux or Charles le Bien-Servi, prompt on Charles]):
    Yolande protected this man, her son-in-law, by secretly shuttling him around her castles in the Loire valley and challenged his mother Queen Isabeau to "come and take him away, if you dare." This disinherited Valois dauphin finally ascended to the French throne at the end of the Hundred Years' War.
  Part 2 (ans: Joan of Arc [or Jeanne d'Arc]):
    In 1429, Yolande encouraged the meeting of Charles and this peasant girl at her castle in Chinon, after which this girl led an effort to lift the siege of Orleans and have Charles crowned at Reims.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [or Duchy of Burgundy or Duche de Bourgogne; accept Burgundians or Bourguignons]):
    Yolande was an early supporter of the Armagnacs, who opposed a faction led by this French duchy. Under the leadership of Philip the Good, this duchy captured Joan of Arc and turned her over to the English to be executed.

[B8] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Two queens of these people, the sisters-in-law Brunhilda and Fredegund, carried out a lifelong feud that influenced the politics of Austrasia and Neustria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Franks):
    Name these Germanic people whose Merovingian and Carolingian dynasties ruled in the Early Middle Ages.
  Part 2 (ans: Tours [accept Gregory of Tours; accept Battle of Tours]):
    The friendship of a bishop of this city and Brunhilda led to a favorable depiction of her and a cruel portrayal of Fredegund in his History of the Franks. Abd al-Rahman was killed at a battle fought somewhere between this city and Poitiers.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Burgundy):
    Queen Balthild later ruled a united Austrasia, Neustria, and this kingdom to the south after the death of her husband Clovis II. This kingdom was later divided between East and West Francia by the Treaty of Meerssen.

[B9] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The first of these people to use a certain route was a hermit named Pelayo who convinced Bishop Theodemir to excavate a tomb marked by a ray of light in the forests of Iria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pilgrims [accept synonyms like visitors to a shrine; answers need to specify travelers for religious reasons]):
    Name these people who traded and collected scallop shells to pay for provisions. St. Dominic of the Causeway allegedly resurrected one of these people who was framed for theft alongside two chickens.
  Part 2 (ans: Santiago de Compostela [accept St James of Compostella; prompt on partial answer]):
    Those pilgrims were traveling to this capital of Galicia, which is home to the remains of the Patron Saint of Spain. "El Camino" included the French Way over the Pyrenees to visit this city.
  Part 3 (ans: Pope Calixtus II [accept Callistus II; or Guy of Burgundy; prompt on just Calixtus or Callistus]):
    This pope's Codex was the first to record the scallop shell tradition and document other pilgrim traditions. This pope settled the Investiture Controversy with Holy Roman Emperor Henry V at the 1122 Concordat of Worms.

[B10] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In 1396, one of these animals spent 146 days in the prison of the Norman town of Pont-de-l'Arche for eating a child. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pigs):
    Name these animals. The most common animals publicly executed in the Middle Ages, these animals were also iconographically associated with bagpipes, despite bagpipes almost never being made from them.
  Part 2 (ans: gloves):
    For an execution, communities were expected to provide these pieces of clothing for the executioner. The giving of one of these items of clothing from a lord to a vassal was often a symbol of accepting homage, and gauntlets are armoured examples of them.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy):
    Many of the surviving records of animal executions come from the Chambre des comptes of this region of eastern France. Centred on the city of Dijon, its duke John the Fearless was assassinated on the Bridge of Montereau in 1419.

[B11] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: It could be argued that the history of Western Europe is a fight over the ghost of Middle Francia, which existed from 843 to 855 CE. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Burgundy):
    Norman Davies identified fifteen European polities which had this name at different times; the first was established under King Gunther at Worms [VORMS] in the fifth century, while a later one formed from part of Middle Francia had its capital at Arles.
  Part 2 (ans: Lorraine):
    The northern part of Middle Francia was split into upper and lower duchies with this name in 959. Annexed by France in 1766, it, together with much of Alsace, was partially re-annexed by Germany after the Franco-Prussian War.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles the Bold (/le Temeraire)):
    The existence of an independent territory between France and Germany came to an end with the death of this final Valois Duke of Burgundy at the 1477 Battle of Nancy [non-see].

[B12] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Haute cuisine time! For 10 points each, answer some questions on French regions famous for their food products:
  Part 1 (ans: Dauphine [dough-fee-neigh] [prompt on Dauphinois]):
    This region of south-eastern France, whose historical capital is Grenoble, is particularly associated with a style of potato dish that involves a shedload of cream and thinly-sliced potatoes.
  Part 2 (ans: Savoy [accept Savoie]):
    To the north-east of the Dauphine lies this other historical region based around Chambery, which is famous for the tartiflette, a dish of potatoes, reblochon cheese, lardons and onions.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [accept Bourgogne]):
    Further north and west of Savoy in eastern France is this historical region, whose major towns include Dijon and Auxerre [oc-sare], and which gives the French version of its name to a type of beef casserole cooked with red wine.

[B13] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Treaty of Arras ("ah-ROSS") ended a feud between two branches of the House of Valois ("vall-WAH"), one named for Orleans ("or-lay-AWN") and the other after this region. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Burgundy [or Bourgogne; accept Burgundian Wars]):
    Name this duchy, whose wars with France ended with Charles the Bold's death in the Battle of Nancy ("nawn-SEE"). It lends its name to a variety of red wine.
  Part 2 (ans: John the Fearless [or John I of Burgundy; or Jean sans Peur]):
    This predecessor of Philip the Good was killed by the dauphin Charles VII's men on a bridge during the Armagnac-Burgundian Civil War. Two years before, he had turned down Henry V's offer to be made ruler of France.
  Part 3 (ans: Feast of the Pheasant [or Banquet du Vœu du Faisan]):
    Philip the Good organized this event to promote a planned crusade in response to the Ottoman sack of Constantinople. An allegorical skit was performed at this event, which accomplished nothing except making Philip and his guests drunk.

[B14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A composer who belonged to this school, Hayne van Ghizeghem, may have died in a battle in which is greatest patron was felled by a halberd. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Burgundy):
    Name this region, whose namesake "school" included the composer of Nuper rosarum flores.
  Part 2 (ans: Antoine Busnois):
    This composer was the leading figure of the Burgundian school after the death of Guillaume Dufay. This composer created six masses based on L'homme armee, and is usually credited with writing the song Fortuna desperata later used by Josquin.
  Part 3 (ans: polyphony [accept word forms like polyphonic]):
    Most Burgundian school works have this musical texture, which is so named because it employs multiple voice. It was apocryphally saved at the Council of Trent by the Pope Marcellus Mass.

[B15] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This ruler's daughter Mary ended up becoming the first wife of Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles the Bold [prompt on "Charles]):
    Name this nobleman from the House of Valois ["val-WAH"] whose death at the Battle of Nancy resulted in the dissolution of his former territory.
  Part 2 (ans: Burgundy):
    Charles the Bold ruled this duchy whose noble house historically also owned land in the Low Countries. This region is the namesake of a type of dark red wine.
  Part 3 (ans: League of the Public Weal [or la ligue du Bien public; or translated equivalents such as "League of the Public Good"]):
    Although Charles, Duke of Berry, nominally led this alliance, its real leader was Charles the Bold. This group of French nobles rose up against the power of Louis XI.

[B16] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer-who namedropped himself in the text of his motet Nove cantum melodie for the baptism of his patron's son-mostly stopped writing after taking an administrative church post in Soignies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gilles Binchois [or Gilles Binchoys; accept Gilles de Binche or Gilles de Bins]):
    Name this 15th-century composer of about 60 surviving chivalrous chansons, including the rondeaus "Adieu, adieu, mon joieulx souvenir" and "Triste plaisir et doulereuse joie." Among modern scholars, he is mostly renowned for his gift of clear melody.
  Part 2 (ans: Burgundian school [or Burgundy school; prompt on Franco-Flemish school or Netherlandish school]):
    Binchois, like Guillaume Du Fay, was a member of this 15th-century school of composition centered on the court of Philip the Good.
  Part 3 (ans: faux bourdon [accept false bass or falsobordone or faburden]):
    Like other Burgundian composers, Binchois often employed this technique of writing three-part music in parallel first-inversion triads. Music history professors love comparing and contrasting it with English descant.

[B17] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The chronicle of Olivier de La Marche (oh-liv-YAY de la MARSH) provides a detailed account of a lavish banquet that this man held to promote a crusade against the Ottomans, although no such crusade ever ended up taking place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip the Good [or Philip III of Burgundy; or Philippe le Bon; prompt on "Philip" or "Philippe"]):
    Name this duke of Burgundy who hosted the Feast of the Pheasant. This father of Charles the Bold founded the Order of the Golden Fleece.
  Part 2 (ans: Krakow [or Cracow]):
    In 1364, Casimir the Great brought many of his contemporary monarchs to this city to discuss a crusade against the Turks. Festivities at that meeting in this city included a wedding banquet at the house of a merchant named Nicholas Wierzynek (VEER-zin-ek).
  Part 3 (ans: France [or Kingdom of France; or Royaume de France]):
    In this country, a series of political meetings called the "banquet campaign" led up to its revolution of 1848. The banquets were organized against Louis Philippe, who ruled during this country's July Monarchy.

[B18] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: During this battle, a sudden fog caused Lord Montague's men to mistake the Earl of Oxford's banner, resulting in a disastrous incident of friendly fire. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Barnet):
    Name this battle at which the Earl of Warwick, after agreeing to fight on foot, was killed in retreat. This 1471 battle was a crushing victory for Edward IV in the Wars of the Roses.
  Part 2 (ans: Burgundy):
    The Earl of Warwick partly broke with Edward IV over Edward's decision to seek an alliance with this duchy. Prior to the Battle of Barnet, Edward IV raised an army with money from its duke Charles the Bold.
  Part 3 (ans: Jane Shore):
    This mistress of Edward IV helped arrange an alliance between the Hastings and Woodvilles after the king's death, and was subsequently forced by Richard III to walk the streets of London in a petticoat as penance.

[B19] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Christian religious figures profiled by the Venerable Bede. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lindisfarne):
    Bede wrote verse and prose versions of a hagiography of Saint Cuthbert, a monk who spent time at this island monastery in Northern England. A raid on this abbey in 793 marked the beginning of the Viking Age.
  Part 2 (ans: Trajan Decius):
    Bede adopted Paulinus of Nola's hagiography of Saint Felix of Nola, who was killed during the namesake persecutions of this non-Diocletian Roman emperor. This man overthrew Philip the Arab and was killed by the Goths at the Battle of Abritus.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [or Bourgogne]):
    Bede praised a different Saint Felix from this region for his efforts to build a school in East Anglia. This French region's duke Philip the Good regulated the quality of its namesake dark red wine.

[B20] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This ruler used the Robot Patent to force peasants to work for landowners. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maria Theresa Walburga Amalia Christina):
    Name this child of Charles VI who came to power after he died of consuming poisonous mushrooms. Despite Charles' diplomatic efforts, this ruler was forced to cede Silesia shortly after coming to power.
  Part 2 (ans: House of Habsburg [or Hapsburg dynasty, etc.]):
    Maria Theresa was a ruler of this house, which ruled over the Austro-Hungarian empire. This family's inbreeding led to elongated jaws.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [or Bourgogne]):
    Under its scion Frederick III, the Habsburgs gained the saying "Let others wage war; you, happy Austria, marry" due to the marriage of his son, Maximilian I, to Mary the Rich, heiress of this region.

[B21] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This son of Philip the Good sought recognition as a king from Emperor Frederick I in 1473. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles the Bold [or Charles le Temeraire]):
    Name this ruler who formed the League of the Public Weal against Louis XI, who joined Maximilian I in partitioning most of his duchy after his defeat at the Battle of Nancy.
  Part 2 (ans: Burgundy):
    Charles the Bold was a duke of this region of south-central France. Today, this region is especially known for its wine.
  Part 3 (ans: Treaty of Conflans):
    After winning at Montlhery in 1465, Charles forced Louis to sign this treaty giving him control of Boulogne, Ponthieu, and Guines. It led to the dissolution of the League of the Public Weal.

[B22] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about rulers of Castile, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfonso X [or Alfonso the Wise; or Alfonso el Sabio; or Alfonso the Learned]):
    This man wrote the law code of Siete Partidas, written in the Castilian Spanish he sponsored throughout his reign. He also vied with Richard of Cornwall and Rudolph I to become Holy Roman Emperor.
  Part 2 (ans:  Isabella I of Castile):
    This queen married Ferdinand of neighboring Aragon. She also decided to help subsidize Christopher Columbus' expedition to the New World.
  Part 3 (ans: House of Trastamara [prompt on House of Burgundy]):
    Henry II founded this House after defeating his half-brother, Pedro the Cruel. A rift in this house ended with the Pact of Los Toros de Guisando, which recognized Isabella I over her niece Juana.

[B23] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: Answer the following about the geography of cheese in France, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Savoy [or Haute-Savoie]):
    This region lies just south of Lake Geneva and northwest of Italy's Piedmont. Delicious cheeses like Reblochon and Tomme are made here.
  Part 2 (ans: Paris):
    Brie is made in the town Meaux in the Seine-et-Marne department. Meaux is in this city's metropolitan area, which makes up the majority of the Ile-de-France.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [or Bourgogne]):
    The soft cheese Epoisse is made in a namesake town in the department of Cote-d'Or in this region. Major cities in this region include Beaune and Auxerre, and it is home to the spectacular Arboretum de Pezanin.

[B24] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Machiavelli criticized this ruler for replacing a large portion of his infantry with Swiss mercenaries. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XI [or The Universal Spider; or The Spider-King; or any answers mentioning both spiders and Louis; prompt on "Louis (the Prudent)"]):
    Name this prudent king of France, who signed the Treaty of Picquigny with Edward IV to isolate his main rival, Charles the Bold.
  Part 2 (ans: The League of the Public Weal [or La ligue du bien Publique]):
    Louis's brother Charles joined this Charles the Bold-forged alliance of feudal nobles that stood against Louis XI.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [or Burgundian Code]):
    Charles the Bold and Philip the Good ruled this medieval kingdom bordering France. This kingdom was named for a people led by Gundobad, who issued that people's namesake "Code."

[B25] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Bishop Warin of Beauvis proposed an oath against attacking churches to Robert the Pious as part of this movement, which was first manifested at councils in Auvergne and Aquitaine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peace of God movement [or Pax Dei; or Paix de Dieu; accept Truce of God or Treuga Dei]):
    Name this tenth- to twelfth-century social movement aimed at protecting property, expanding church power and limiting warfare. The Council of Elne-Toulouges banned contact with excommunicates as part of this movement.
  Part 2 (ans: Cluny Abbey [accept Cluniac reforms or Clunian reforms]):
    The Peace of God was strongly supported by this Benedictine super-monastery that gained power through a system of dependent priories. Peter the Venerable was a leader of this abbey, which promoted namesake anti-simony reforms in the 11th century.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy [or Bourgogne]):
    Cluny was located in this region. A duke of this region attempted to promote a crusade that never took place at the 1454 Feast of the Pheasant, and he wore a robe worth three times what he'd paid for the office to the ceremony where he assumed ownership of the Bishopric of Liege.

[B26] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Canon 13 of an ecumenical council called by this Pope declared anathema those who had violated the "Truce of God." For 7 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pope Callixtus II [or Guy de Burgundy]):
    Name this man who served as Archbishop of Vienne afer being appointed legate to France by Pope Paschal II. This man's brief fve-year term as Pope saw him call the First Lateran Council in 1123.
  Part 2 (ans: Investiture Controversy):
    The First Lateran Council brought a close to this controversy, which originated when Pope Gregory VII and Henry IV butted heads over the right to appoint bishops.
  Part 3 (ans: Concordat of Worms [prompt on Pactum Calixtinum]):
    At the First Lateran Council, the terms of this agreement, which was made the previous year between Callixtus II and Holy Roman Emperor Henry V, were read and ratifed, including its distinction between investiture "by the lance" and that "by ring and staf"

[B27] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Music by Guillaume Dufay and Gilles Binchois was performed at this lavish event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Feast of the Pheasant [or Banquet du Voeu du Faisan]):
    Name this banquet held in 1454 to drum up support for a proposed crusade against the Turks in the wake of their recent taking of Constantinople. According to Olivier de La Marche, one of the tables at this banquet had a centerpiece shaped like a giant pie, flled with minstrels.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip the Good [or Philippe le Bon; or Philip III]):
    The Feast of the Pheasant was put on by this Valois duke, the son of John the Fearless. His forces captured Joan of Arc at Compiegne. He also signed the Treaty of Troyes with King Henry V of England.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy):
    Philip the Good was a duke of this French region, as was his successor, Charles the Bold. Its dukes warred with the Ar-magnacs in a civil war starting in 1407.

[B28] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: The motto of this order is honi soit qui mal y pense, or "shame to him who thinks evil on it." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Order of the Garter):
    Name this chivalric order founded by Edward III of England.
  Part 2 (ans: Burgundy):
    The Order of the Golden Fleece was founded by Philip the Good, who built up the power of this duchy also ruled by Charles the Bold and John the Fearless.
  Part 3 (ans: Order of the Dragon [or Order of the Dragons; or Societas Draconistarum]):
    To consolidate power over Hungary, Sigismund of Luxembourg created this much more exciting chivalric order, consisting of twenty-four barons loyal to him who administered the state.

[B29] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This conflict saw engagements at Calven and Dornach. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Swabian War [or Swiss War]):
    Name this 1499 conflicted that pitted a group backed by Frederick the Peaceful against the Three Leagues of the Grisons.
  Part 2 (ans: Pikes):
    The Swabian war was among the first conflicts to see the mass deployment of units armed with these polearms. Landsknechts were Swiss mercenaries which utilized this weapon.
  Part 3 (ans: Burgundy):
    Swiss soldiers and commanders had earlier proven their skill fighting this Duchy which was defeated at the Battle of Nancy. Charles the Bold was the last Valois leader of this Duchy.

[B30] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This sculpture was created for the cloister of the Chartreuse de Champmol. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Well of Moses [or the Moses Fountain]):
    Name this six-sided sculpture, which originally depicted the prophet Jeremiah wearing copper glasses. It also depicts David, Isaiah, and Daniel, as well as a figure with horns on his forehead.
  Part 2 (ans: Burgundy):
    Claus Sluter sculpted the Well of Moses for this region's duke John the Fearless. The Chartreuse de Champmol was constructed as tomb for its ruler Philip the Bold.
  Part 3 (ans: Carthusian monks):
    The tomb of Philip the Bold includes small sculptures of forty of these monks in a funeral procession. Petrus Christus painted a portrait of one of these monks, whose order was founded by St. Bruno.
