=== STOCK CLUES: Alfred Lord Tennyson ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 2 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 1 found, 3 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred Lord Tennyson
  - This author included a poem about a "thick-leaved, ambrosial" oak-tree near the site of where "the beetle boometh," the "bee hummeth," and the title character "low-lieth." In another work, this author described "huge sponges of millennial growth and height" swelling above a creature who "hath...lain for ages" and who would "rise and on the surface die." This author of "Claribel" described a character who was (*) "half sick of shadows" and who had her title carved into a shallow boat before "the broad stream bore her far away." This author included "Lancelot and Elaine" and "Guinevere" in his collection of twelve narrative poems recounting the legend of King Arthur.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Idylls of the King" and "The Lady of Shalott." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Linda K. Hughes suggested that one poem's expression of intent to "follow knowledge like a sinking star" reflects its author's wish to reunite with this person on an "unknown metaphysical plane". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Henry Hallam [prompt on "In Memoriam A.H.H."] (The poem is by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.)):
    Name this person. This person's death is mourned in another poem which evokes "Strong Son of God, immortal love" in its opening.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Lord Tennyson):
    Scholars have discussed the influence of Hallam's death on this poet, who wrote the line "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" at the end of his poem "Ulysses".
  Part 3 (ans: noble note):
    In what Hughes considers an indication of intent to join those who had known Hallam well, the speaker of "Ulysses" wants to do "some work of" this alliterative two-word phrase, which precedes "not unbecoming men that strove with Gods".
