=== STOCK CLUES: Tennyson ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 32 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 32 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - The speaker of a poem by this author searches for a "secret meaning" by contemplating how, "of fifty seeds," often only one sprouts into a plant. [PWR]
  - This author claims that "hope of answer, or redress" lies "Behind the veil, behind the veil" in a poem that compares "Dragons of the prime, / That tare each other in their slime" to "mellow music" in its "Dinosaur Cantos." A fifteen-line sonnet by this author imagines "Huge sponges of millennial growth and height." This author wrote about a creature (*) "Far, far beneath in the abysmal sea" in "The Kraken." This author described nature as being "red in tooth and claw" in a long poem mourning the death of his friend Arthur Henry Hallam.
  - For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "In Memoriam A.H.H." [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - A poem by this author inspired a painting in which a woman in blue places her hands on her hips in front of a stained-glass Annunciation copied from the Merton College chapel. [PWR]
  - Arthur Hughes's painting April Love was first exhibited alongside a passage by this author.
  - The Dalziel Brothers made elaborate woodcuts for the illustrated Moxon edition of this author's works. [PWR]
  - This 19th-century poet popularized a ballad depicted in a painting located next to The (*) Golden Stairs, which shows the African king Cophetua and a "Beggar Maid." Edward Lear's arrangement of a poem by this author lies on the floor as a woman rises from a man's lap in The Awakening Conscience. [PWR]
  - A woman created by this poet weaves a tapestry in front of a mirror reflecting Camelot in a painting whose title includes his line "I Am Half-Sick of Shadows." For 10 points, name this poet who inspired Pre-Raphaelite paintings like John Everett Millais's Mariana and John William Waterhouse's The Lady of Shalott. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: the death of Arthur [or Le Morte d'Arthur; accept equivalents like the passing of King Arthur; prompt on just death or synonyms] (The second sentence is from Tennyson's Idylls of the King; the series is T. H. White's The Once and Future King.)
  - In a novel, a man anticipating this event tells a story to a boy named Tom and forces him to return home to relay it to others. [PWR]
  - This event titles a poem in which a man claims of God, "I found Him in the shining of the stars / I mark'd Him in the flowering of His fields." In a dream foretelling this event, a man sits on a chair fastened to the Wheel of Fortune, below which he sees serpents in black water. [PWR]
  - This event is implied to occur at the end of the novel The Candle in the Wind, the last entry in a series about a character called "the (*) Wart." The Lincoln Thornton Manuscript preserves an "Alliterative" poem titled for this event, which inspired a later poem published by William Caxton and likely written from Newgate Prison. [PWR]
  - Before this event, a man thrice gives the command to throw a sword into a lake.
  - Thomas Malory's magnum opus is named after--for 10 points--what event that occurs after its legendary victim is mortally wounded by his son Mordred? [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: book reviews [prompt on magazine articles; prompt on literary criticism with "In what specific form?"] (Tennyson's poem refers to John Croker, who also wrote the famous attack on John Keats.)
  - Thomas Carlyle's 1831 essay "Characteristics" claims that literature is becoming "one boundless self-devouring" one of these works.
  - Tennyson's poem "Merlin and the Gleam" puns on another author's name by describing one of these works as the "croak of a Raven." A Virginia Woolf essay on the decline of these works notes that they became much shorter toward the end of the 19th century and recommends they adopt a "medical custom." Walter Bagehot  claimed that a publication founded in 1802 in Edinburgh connected "ancient" to "modern" writing by making these works "essay-like." That journal featured work of this type by Henry Brougham and Francis Jeffrey, who is hailed ironically and compared to a "harmless pistol" in Lord Byron's satire on "English Bards and Scotch" authors of these works.
  - For 10 points, identify these works whose modern authors include James Wood and Michiko Kakutani. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson (The sequel is "Locksley Hall Sixty Years After.")
  - The speaker of this poet's sequel to one of his own poems describes how revolutions "set the feet above the brain and swear the brain is in the feet" and tells his grandson, "half the morning have I paced these sandy tracts". [PWR]
  - That sequel rebuts this poet's earlier vision of a world "lapt in universal law" and governed by the "Parliament of man," and is set "Sixty Years After". [PWR]
  - This poet wrote "In the Spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love" about a young soldier who bids (*) "Comrades, leave me here a little," before recalling how his cousin Amy rejected him at the title childhood home. [PWR]
  - The title soldiers of another poem by this author of "Locksley Hall" say "ours not to reason why / ours but to do and die".
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "The Charge of the Light Brigade". [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred Lord Tennyson
  - This author included a poem about a "thick-leaved, ambrosial" oak-tree near the site of where "the beetle boometh," the "bee hummeth," and the title character "low-lieth." In another work, this author described "huge sponges of millennial growth and height" swelling above a creature who "hath...lain for ages" and who would "rise and on the surface die." This author of "Claribel" described a character who was (*) "half sick of shadows" and who had her title carved into a shallow boat before "the broad stream bore her far away." This author included "Lancelot and Elaine" and "Guinevere" in his collection of twelve narrative poems recounting the legend of King Arthur.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Idylls of the King" and "The Lady of Shalott." [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - This author wrote a poem predicting that "the homeless planet at length will be wheel'd thro' the silence of space / Motherless evermore of an ever-vanishing race." Philosophers of science often quote his lyric telling a flower that, "if I could understand / What you are, root and all, and all in all, / I should know what God and man is." This poet's impressions taking the train from Liverpool to Manchester for the first time inspired his lines "Forward, forward let us range, / Let the (*) great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change." The uniformitarianism advocated by Charles Lyell influenced a fifteen-line sonnet by this author about a creature who "hath lain for ages and will lie / Battening upon huge seaworms in his sleep / Until the latter fire shall heat the deep." For 10 points, name this author who poetically summarized the theories of Darwin as "nature, red in tooth and claw" in his poem In Memoriam A.H.H. [PWR,GIVE]

[T8] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - A short poem by this poet begins and ends all five stanzas with the words "now" and "me," respectively, as in, "Now lies the earth all Danae to the stars, and all thy heart lies open unto me." Another of his poems spoken by a shepherd instructs a maid to "cease...to set a star upon the sparkling spire" and "let the wild lean-headed eagles yelp alone," inviting her to the valley where she will hear "the moan of doves in immemorial elms, and murmuring of innumerable bees." Another poem by this man invokes "the first beam glittering on a sail that brings our friends up from the underworld" and "the earliest pipe of half-awakened birds to dying ears" in a series of similes leading into nostalgic refrains about "the days that are no more." His narrative poem The Princess includes the interpolated lyrics "Now sleeps the crimson petal," "Come down, O maid," and "Tears, idle tears." For 10 points, name this Victorian poet who also wrote "The Lady of Shalott." [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - A poem by this author states "This truth within thy mind rehearse, that in a boundless universe, is boundless better, boundless worse." In a short poem, he wrote "I hold you here, root and all, in my hand" after he plucked a "flower in the crannied wall." A long poem in which two voices debate the effects of suicide was penned by this author after the death of the author of "Soudan Timbuctoo." That event also inspired this author to write "Love is and was my Lord and King" as well as a poem that repeatedly asks wild bells to "ring out." He described Nature as "red in tooth and claw" in a poem inspired by the death of Arthur Henry Hallam, which states "'tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all." For 10 points, name this author of In Memoriam, who also wrote "The Charge of the Light Brigade." [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - In one poem by this author, the speaker "walked with one I loved two and thirty years ago" before concluding that "the voice of the dead was a living voice to me." In addition to writing "In the Valley of Cauteretz," this author also wrote some unsuccessful plays about Farmer Dobson and Mr. [PWR]
  - Philip Edgar. [PWR]
  - This writer of The Promise of May and Harold: A Drama described a creature "ringed with the azure world" in "The (*) Eagle." He lamented, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall" in another poem, in which "after many a summer dies a swan." For 10 points, name poet of "Tithonus" who memorialized a group that charged "into the valley of death" in "The Charge of the Light Brigade". [PWR,GIVE]

[T11] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - This poet compared the labor of his memory lifting "the hidden ore" "from the deep / Gold-mines of thought" to the process of remembering a dream in a poem that describes figures such as Margaret Roper and the "light of ancient France," Joan of Arc. [PWR]
  - Another poem by this author calls "the days that are no more" "So sad, so strange" and opens by invoking the image of "Tears, Idle Tears." This author of "A Dream of Fair Women" wrote about a (*) fisherman missing for ten years who doesn't reveal that he has returned to his remarried wife Annie in his poem "Enoch Arden." He exhorted "May there be no sadness of farewell, / When I embark" in a poem where he hopes to "see my Pilot face to face." For 10 points, name this poet of "Crossing the Bar" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade." [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alfred, Lord Tennyson
  - In one poem, this author laments that "we only toil, who are the first of things." That poem by this author describes a land "where all things always seem'd the same," and the speaker is "propt on beds of amaranth and moly." At the end of that poem, the speaker advises "rest ye, brother mariners, we will not wander more," preferring to stay in the company of the title "mild-eyed melancholy" people, who came bearing branches "of that enchanted stem." In another poem by this author the speaker announces "I am become a name" and remembers "much have I seen and known." In that poem the speaker leaves to his son "the scepter and the isle" and resolves to "sail beyond the sunset" and "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." For 10 points, name this poet who was inspired by The Odyssey to write "The Lotos-Eaters" and "Ulysses." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman who married into this family maintained a multi-decade correspondence with an author who named his villa in Sanremo after her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tennyson [or Emily Tennyson; or Alfred, Lord Tennyson]):
    Name this family into which the sisters Louisa and Emily married. Emily composed music for poems such as "Break, Break, Break," written by her spouse with this family name.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Lear):
    This longtime correspondent of Emily Tennyson illustrated and composed music for many of Alfred's poems. This author's nonsense poems include "The Owl and the Pussy-Cat."
  Part 3 (ans: "Sweet and Low"):
    Edward Lear composed a lullaby-like musical setting of this poem by Tennyson, which appears between cantos II and III of The Princess. This poem's title phrase describes the "Wind of the western sea."

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a sequel to this poem set "Sixty Years After," its narrator compares his love for his cousin Amy to his grandson's love for the girl Judith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Locksley Hall" [accept "Locksley Hall - Sixty Years After"]):
    Name this poem whose narrator describes his fancy as "lightly [turning] to thoughts of love" when thinking about Amy. This poem's optimistic vision of the future describes a "Parliament of man, the federation of the world."
  Part 2 (ans: winter AND spring [accept "a winter sunset fairer than a morn of spring"; accept "If winter comes, can spring be far behind?"]):
    In "Locksley Hall - Sixty Years After," Judith judges that a sunset in one of these time periods is fairer than a morn in the other. Percy Shelley's "Ode to the West Wind" ends with a line mentioning these two time periods.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This poet of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" wrote about Amy and Judith in his two poems about his childhood home of Locksley Hall.

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Nutmeg's Curse, Amitav Ghosh writes that this poem "reinforced a belief in the absolute exceptionalism and supremacy of one kind of human - White, Western Man." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: In MemoriamA. H. H.):
    Name this poem which claims "at the last arose the man; / Who throve and branch'd from clime to clime, / The herald of a higher race" in Canto 118. This poem also describes how nature "shriek'd against his creed."
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This author wrote about the advent of man in In Memoriam. He also wrote "The Charge of the Light Brigade."
  Part 3 (ans: tiger [accept "The Tyger"]):
    In In Memoriam, Tennyson writes that man must work "out the beast, / and let the ape and [this animal] die." In a different poem, the narrator asks this animal "What the hammer? what the chain, / In what furnace was thy brain?"

[B4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Linda K. Hughes suggested that one poem's expression of intent to "follow knowledge like a sinking star" reflects its author's wish to reunite with this person on an "unknown metaphysical plane". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Henry Hallam [prompt on "In Memoriam A.H.H."] (The poem is by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.)):
    Name this person. This person's death is mourned in another poem which evokes "Strong Son of God, immortal love" in its opening.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Lord Tennyson):
    Scholars have discussed the influence of Hallam's death on this poet, who wrote the line "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" at the end of his poem "Ulysses".
  Part 3 (ans: noble note):
    In what Hughes considers an indication of intent to join those who had known Hallam well, the speaker of "Ulysses" wants to do "some work of" this alliterative two-word phrase, which precedes "not unbecoming men that strove with Gods".

[B5] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem opening "Welcome, son of thy great father" was written to commemorate this author's elder son upon his arrival in South Australia to be its Governor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson]):
    Name this author whose son Hallam was his official biographer. This poet wrote In Memoriam A.H.H. for a different Hallam.
  Part 2 (ans: The Bulletin [accept the "Bulletin debate"]):
    Tennyson remarked, "Unlike John the Baptist, I cannot live on locusts and wild honey" in response to this periodical's school of "bush poetry." Banjo Patterson and Henry Lawson argued over bush life in a debate named for this magazine.
  Part 3 (ans: A. D. Hope [or Alec Derwent Hope]):
    Arthur Hallam asks "Forgive me, friend, if I find fault..." in a reply to In Memoriam from this poet's Book of Answers, which also contains the "Coy Mistress's" reply to Andrew Marvell. This Australian was dubbed "the twentieth century's greatest eighteenth-century poet."

[B6] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A digressive passage by a novel's narrator claims that this author was "the first to try to break the Victorian middle-class seal over the supposed Pandora's box of sex." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Name this author, whose affair with his cousin Tryphena is recounted in John Fowles' novel The French Lieutenant's Woman. The narrator suggests that this author tacitly dedicated his novel Jude the Obscure to Tryphena.
  Part 2 (ans: "In Memoriam A. H. H." (by Alfred, Lord Tennyson)):
    The narrator of The French Lieutenant's Woman later didactically quotes a passage from this long Victorian-era poem, which describes nature as "red in tooth and claw."
  Part 3 (ans: Marguerite (Both poems are by Matthew Arnold.)):
    The French Lieutenant's Woman ends by describing an "unplumb'd, salt, estranging sea," quoting a poem addressed to this woman that notes "we mortal millions live alone." She is the addressee of the poem "Isolation."

[B7] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A study by John Hollander analyzes "Metaleptic," "Schematic," and "Metaphorical" examples of the "Figure of" this phenomenon in the work of "Milton and After." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: echoes [accept The Figure of Echo; accept "The Leaden Echo and the Golden Echo" (by Gerard Manley Hopkins)]):
    Name these phenomena. The lines "Be beginning to despair, to despair, / Despair, despair, despair, despair" and "Yonder, yes yonder, yonder, / Yonder" end parts of a poem narrated respectively by "Leaden" and "Golden" examples of them.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    Hollander's book ends with a discussion of this poet's mention of "wild echoes flying" and "echoes, dying, dying, dying" as bugles blow in "The Splendor Falls." He also wrote "Charge of the Light Brigade."
  Part 3 (ans: George Herbert (The collection is The Temple.)):
    An echo provides one-word answers to questions posed by the speaker in this metaphysical author's poem "Heaven," included alongside many shaped poems in a book of "Sacred Poems and Private Ejaculations."

[B8] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Alongside Mary Hunter Austin and Zitkala-Sa ("zit-KAH-lah SHAH"), this author is profiled as a herald of a "golden morrow" in a study of women writers by Elaine Showalter titled for one of her stories. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Glaspell [or Susan Keating Glaspell] (The play is Trifles.)):
    Name this author who adapted that story, "A Jury of Her Peers," from her play in which a dead bird suggests to Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Peters that Minnie Foster killed her husband.
  Part 2 (ans: Sui Sin Far [or Sui Sin Far or Shui Xian Hua; or Edith Maude Eaton]):
    Another writer from Showalter's "golden morrow" is this pseudonymous mixed-race author, who wrote about Chinese Americans in her 1912 collection Mrs. Spring Fragrance.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson]):
    In the collection's title story, Mrs. Spring Fragrance calls this English poet a "noble American" before reciting his lines, "'Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all."

[B9] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The first part of a collection by this author, "The Fields," opens with the line, "Europe is lying propped up on her elbows." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa]):
    Name this author of the poetry collection Mensagem, or Message.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses [or Odysseus] (The other poem is "Ulysses" by Tennyson.)):
    Mensagem contains a poem titled for this person that begins "Myth - nothing, everything." In a poem by a different author, this person wishes "To strive, to seek, to find, but not to yield."
  Part 3 (ans: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or Republica Portuguesa]):
    Pessoa hails from this Iberian country, whose national epic is The Lusiads by Luis de Camoes ("Cah-moysh").

[B10] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Isaac Asimov praised a poem by this author in which "nations' airy navies" rain "a ghastly dew" as "the most remarkable example of science fiction poetry" ever written. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    Name this British author of that poem, "Locksley Hall." This poet wrote "The Charge of the Light Brigade."
  Part 2 (ans: tooth AND claw [accept "Nature is red in tooth and claw"] (The Jo Walton novel is Tooth and Claw.)):
    Two answers required. A Jo Walton novel that replaces humans in a Victorian romance with dragons takes its title from a Tennyson quote about these two things. Tennyson's line concerning these two attributes, which follows a line that calls "love Creation's final law," is often thought to be a response to Darwin's theory of evolution.
  Part 3 (ans: kraken [prompt on giant squid or octopus] (The Mieville novel is Kraken.)):
    A cult which worships this creature appears in a China Mieville novel partially inspired by Tennyson's poem about this creature, who "below the thunders of the upper deep" is "in ancient, dreamless, uninvaded sleep."

[B11] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker says, "They cannot tear the garden out of me, / Nor smear my love with names" in a poem titled for this author by James Wright. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sappho [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, Sappho of Lesbos] (The poem is "Hymn to Aphrodite.")):
    Name this author who described the beauty of what you love in a poem dedicated to Anactoria. The speaker of a poem by this author asks a "Deathless [figure] of the spangled mind" to "be my ally."
  Part 2 (ans: Lesbos [prompt on lesbian]):
    Sappho was a lyric poet from this Greek island, as was her contemporary Alcaeus of Mytilene. A term for female same-sex love is derived from the name of this island.
  Part 3 (ans: Tithonus [accept the Tithonus poem] (The second poem is "Tithonus" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.)):
    Sappho described skin that was "once supple and smooth" in a part of her Fragment 58 nicknamed for this mythical figure. In a poem titled for this figure, the speaker says "The Gods themselves cannot recall their gifts."

[B12] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This phrase partly titles a book by Alice Jenkins about the treatment of space in Victorian literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: march of mind [or march of intellect; accept Space and the 'March of Mind']):
    Name this three-word phrase used in early 19th-century Britain to refer to the progress of scientific knowledge and the spread of education. Either of two similar phrases is acceptable.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Love Peacock):
    Dr. Folliott declares himself "all out of patience with this march of mind" in Crotchet Castle, a satirical novel by this author of Nightmare Abbey.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    The speaker imagines escaping from "this march of mind" and "the thoughts that shake mankind" in "Locksley Hall," a poem by this author of "Crossing the Bar."

[B13] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about mirrors in Agatha Christie works, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    The title of Christie's novel The Mirror Crack'd from Side to Side is a line from this author's poem The Lady of Shalott, who described the "six hundred" riding "into the valley of Death" in The Charge of the Light Brigade.
  Part 2 (ans: a tennis racquet):
    In the novel Cat Among the Pigeons, Ann Shapland uses a hand mirror to see smuggled jewels being hidden in one of these objects. In Towards Zero, Neville Strange constructs a murder weapon from one of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: witness [accept Dumb Witness or The Witness for the Prosecution]):
    Initials being reflected in a mirror allow for the capture of the murderer in a novel titled for the "dumb" one of these people. Christie won an Edgar Award for a 1954 play titled for this type of person "for the Prosecution."

[B14] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem ends by lamenting the loss of "the tender grace of a day that is dead." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Break, Break, Break"):
    Name this poem that commands the sea to do the title action "on thy cold gray stones."
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Henry Hallam [accept A.H.H.; accept "In Memoriam A.H.H."]):
    "Break, Break, Break" was written in response to the death of this person. Another poem about this person's death, which declares "'tis better to have loved and lost, then never to have loved at all," is partly titled "In Memoriam."
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Lord Tennyson; or Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson]):
    This author of "Break, Break, Break" mourned the death of Hallam in his poem "In Memoriam A.H.H." He also wrote "The Charge of the Light Brigade."

[B15] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem poking fun at the frequent memorization of this poem's first lines opens "Love's the boy stood on the burning deck / trying to recite `The boy stood on the burning deck.'" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Casabianca"):
    Name this poem by Felicia Hemans about a boy who bravely dies with a burning ship.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    That later update to "Casabianca" is by this poet. "Victory filled up / the little rented boat" until "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!" in this poet's poem "The Fish."
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    The title "Gentleman of Shalott" quotes "Half is enough" in a Bishop poem, referencing the line "I am half sick of shadows" from this poet's "The Lady of Shalott." This poet wrote about a cavalry "Plunged in the battery-smoke" in "The Charge of the Light Brigade."

[B16] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Peggy Noonan used this phrase to end a January 1986 speech describing people who "slipped the surly bonds of Earth." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the face of God (The speech addressed the Challenger disaster.)):
    Give this three-word phrase that ends the poem "High Flight," written by World War II pilot John Gillespie Magee, in which the speaker "put out my hand, and touched" this phrase.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This poet of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" wrote that "I hope to see my Pilot face to face" after his death in his poem "Crossing the Bar." That poem refers to a maritime pilot, as this poet lived before the age of airplanes.
  Part 3 (ans: Irish (The poet is W. B. Yeats.)):
    A poet of this nationality wrote of a pilot who "know[s] that I shall meet my fate / Somewhere among the clouds above" in a poem titled "A [this nationality] Airman Foresees His Death."

[B17] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, the bishop Mael accidentally baptizes a group of these animals, turning them into humans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: penguins [or pingouins; accept Penguin Island or L'Ile des Pingouins; accept Penguin Books or Penguin Group or Penguin Random House or Penguin Classics; or Sphenisciformes; accept specific penguin species]):
    Name these birds, the subject of a novel by Anatole France. A British publishing group named for these birds merged with Random House in 2013.
  Part 2 (ans: the Kraken [prompt on sea monsters; prompt on putative equivalents like giant squid or cephalopods] (The poem is "The Kraken" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.)):
    In Penguin Island, a penguin named after this creature dresses as a dragon to terrorize villagers. A poem about this creature describes its "dreamless, uninvaded sleep" "below the thunders of the upper deep."
  Part 3 (ans: Dreyfus affair [or equivalents such as conviction of Dreyfus or the Dreyfus scandal] (The article is Emile Zola's J'Accuse!)):
    A long section of Penguin Island titled "The Case of 80,000 Bundles of Hay" is a satire of this event. An article on this event that was published in the newspaper L'Aurore criticizes various war offices for "miscarriage of justice."

[B18] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the poem 'Dunt' from this poet's collection Falling Awake, they describe 'a Roman water nymph made of bone' as a 'very speechless very broken old woman' as it tries to draw a long-dried-up river. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alice Oswald):
    Name this poet. Episodes from a sewage treatment plant and some poachers form part of this poet's T.S Eliot-Prize-winning Dart.
  Part 2 (ans: dramatic monologue [prompt on monologue]):
    'Tithonus', which concludes Falling Awake, is this kind of poem. Other examples of this kind of poem include 'Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came', 'St Simeon Stylites', and 'Andrea del Sarto'.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This poet also wrote a dramatic monologue entitled 'Tithonus', and about 'Nature, red in tooth and claw' in In Memoriam A.H.H.

[B19] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some other authors who wrote epithalamiums.
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This author appended an epithalamium celebrating the marriage of his sister at the end of his poem "In Memoriam A.H.H."
  Part 2 (ans: Sir John Suckling (the poem is "A Ballad Upon a Wedding")):
    The speaker of an epithalamium by this author uses many stanzas to describe the bride in which he compares her feet to "little mice" and notes that her chin had just been stung by a bee. That poem by this author opens with the lines, "I tell thee, Dick, where I have been, Where I the rarest things have seen."

[B20] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's painting of the Rucellai ("ROO-chell-eye") Madonna being carried through the streets by priests was bought almost immediately by Queen Victoria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederic Leighton [or 1st Baron Leighton]):
    Name this British artist of the painting Cimabue's ("chee-MAH-boo-ay's") Celebrated Madonna. This artist's painting of a long-haired sleeping woman in translucent orange dress is titled Flaming June.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelites [or Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood; or PRB]):
    Leighton was associated with the second generation of this art group whose other members included William Holman Hunt and John Everett Millais ("mill-AY").
  Part 3 (ans: The Lady of Shallot [or Elaine of Astolat; prompt on Elaine] (The poem is by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.)):
    This anguished red-headed woman sits in a boat with some candles and a tapestry in a John William Waterhouse painting of her. The title of another Waterhouse painting quotes a poem about this cursed woman from Arthurian legend, in which she claims to be "half-sick of shadows."

[B21] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem describes how his "Children's voices, wild with pain" call out "Margaret! Margaret!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Forsaken Merman"):
    Name this Matthew Arnold poem, whose speaker laments how his wife "look'd up through the clear green sea" and went to pray at a "little grey church," but hasn't returned.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This author's pair of poems "The Mermaid" and "The Merman" were criticized by John Stuart Mill as "actually puerile" and a failure of "creative imagination." The death of Arthur Henry Hallam inspired this author to write a long poem descriibng nature as "red in tooth and claw."
  Part 3 (ans: Blackwood's (Edinburgh) Magazine [or Maga]):
    Tennyson responded to this conservative, Edinburgh-based magazine's pseudonymous critic Christopher North's takedown of the collection that contained "The Merman" by writing an epigram to its second edition that calls him "crusty," "rusty," "musty," and "fusty."

[B22] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: These things are described as "fresh as the first beam glittering on a sail" and "dear as remember'd kisses after death." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tears [accept "Tears, Idle Tears"]):
    Name these title objects about which the speaker of a poem says "I know not what they mean" as he looks on "happy autumn-fields" and reflects on "the days that are no more."
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This Victorian poet of "Tears, Idle Tears" also wrote "The Lady of Shalott" ("shuh-LOT") and Idylls of the King.
  Part 3 (ans: The Princess):
    Tennyson included "Tears, Idle Tears" in this serio-comic narrative poem in which a man disguises himself as a woman to enroll in a university where men are banned, so he can woo the title character.

[B23] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrative of a long comic poem by this man is interrupted when Lilia sings of a soldier who is spurred on by "thy voice . . . thro' rolling drums" to strike his foe dead "for thine and thee." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson]):
    Name this author whose long poem The Princess includes a refrain that laments "the days that are no more" and begins "tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean."
  Part 2 (ans: crimson and white [do not accept any other colors; accept "now sleeps the crimson petal, now the white"; accept The Crimson Petal and the White]):
    A third part of The Princess opens by noting that petals of these two colors are asleep, and that poem invites the addressee to "slip / into my bosom and be lost in me." These colors appear in the title of a 2002 novel by Michel Faber (MEE-kell FAH-ber) that is set in the Victorian era.
  Part 3 (ans: "Ulysses"):
    In this Tennyson poem, an aging Greek hero eager for adventure states that "we are not now that strength which in old days / moved earth and heaven" and expresses his will "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."

[B24] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Originally published in four parts, including "The Victories of Love," this poem presents the marriage between the rejected suitor Frederick and his eventual wife Jane in an epistolary format. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Angel in the House):
    Name this narrative poem by Coventry Patmore in which Felix Vaughan courts and marries Honoria Churchill, who represents the Victorian feminine ideal of women who remain and champion their separate spheres of life.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    This friend and contemporary of Patmore wrote that "after many a summer dies the swan" in a poem that opens, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall." This author of "Tithonous" also wrote In Memoriam, A.H.H.
  Part 3 (ans: ring out [do not accept or prompt on "ring in"]):
    A section of In Memoriam repeatedly asks the "wild bells" to perform this two-word action "to the wild sky," and to apply it to "the old," "the false," and "the grief that saps the mind."

[B25] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, mankind is said to "smile in secret, looking over wasted lands, blight and famine, plague and earthquake, roaring deeps and fiery sands, clanging fights, and flaming towns, and sinking ships, and praying hands." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Lotos-Eaters"):
    Name this poem, whose title characters lament that "all things are taken from us, and become / Portions and parcels of the dreadful past," and declare: "O, rest ye, brother mariners, we will not wander more," in the "Choric Song."
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Tennyson [or Lord Tennyson; or 1st Baron Tennyson]):
    This Victorian poet wrote dramatic monologues, such as "The Lotos-Eaters," "Tithonus," and "Ulysses."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Palace of Art"):
    In this early dramatic monologue by Tennyson, the speaker secludes his soul in the title aesthetic fortress, but she begs of him to "make me a cottage in the vale," where "I may mourn and pray."
