=== STOCK CLUES: Junot Diaz ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 32 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: cane [or sugarcane; accept cana de azucar; accept cane fields; accept The Sugar-Cane; prompt on sugar or azucar] (The unnamed authors are Paule Marshall, Kamau Brathwaite, and Junot Diaz.)
  - The narrator paints landscapes of this substance after recalling a trip from New York to see her grandmother in the story "To Da-duh, in Memoriam." In a novel, this natural substance prompts nightmares of a dancing woman with a "shiny silver muzzle." A poet who critiqued James Grainger's Georgic poem on this substance described schoolchildren writing of the "alien experience" of "snow falling" on it in his book History of the Voice.
  - A hot-air balloon at a mill that processes this plant is stolen by Guy , leading to his death, in the story "A Wall of Fire Rising." Sebastien Onius harvests this plant in a novel by Edwidge Danticat that likens its industry to the "farming of bones." Both Beli and Oscar Wao are left to die in fields of this plant.
  - For 10 points, what plant titles a multi-genre book of vignettes and poetry by Jean  Toomer? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Junot Diaz (The first story is "Miss Lora." The third sentence refers to "How to Date a Brown Girl (Black Girl, White Girl, or Halfie).")
  - In a story by this author, the teenage narrator discusses the film "The Day After" with an older woman with whom he has an affair while she teaches at his high school. [PWR]
  - Five sections labeled for the number of years after a breakup divide a story by this author. [PWR]
  - The instruction to take an out-of-town girl for dinner was included in a story by this author presented as dating advice. [PWR]
  - This author wrote a story in which a Kenyan man marries a girl who sends her ex-boyfriend (*) emails of fifty mistresses, titled "The Cheater's Guide to Love." This author of the collections Drown and This is How You Lose Her wrote a novel in which the fuku curse affects an overweight Rutgers graduate. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Dominican-born author whose recurring character Yunior narrates The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Junot Diaz
  - The protagonist of a story by this author helps his friend Elvis realize that he isn't the father of his mistress' son.
  - Another story by this author ends with the instructions to "put the government cheese back in its place before your mom kills you." Beli sees a faceless man waving at her before discovering she is pregnant with the Gangster's child in a novel by this author, who is known for his characteristic second-person point-of-view.
  - This author's story "How to Date a Brown Girl" and collection This is How You Lose Her are narrated by a recurring character who describes a fuku curse inflicted by Rafael Trujillo.
  - Yunior de las Casas was created by, for 10 points, what author of The Brief and Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao? [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Diaz [accept Natalie Diaz or Junot Diaz]
  - An author with this surname wrote a poem whose speaker feels "the kick and leap of gold grasshoppers at my brow" after comparing insomnia to spring, "surprising / and many petaled." That author with this surname reworked a Federico Garcia Lorca line as "I want her green life" in the poem "From the Desire Field." In a novel by an author with this surname, Socorro jumps in front of a train, leading her daughter Belicia to be raised by La Inca. [PWR]
  - A (*) Mojave  author with this surname won a 2021 Pulitzer for Postcolonial Love Poem.
  - Another author with this surname wrote about a fuku curse that haunts a family under the Trujillo regime in a novel mostly narrated by Yunior de las Casas.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the Dominican-American author of The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Junot Diaz
  - In a novel, this author wrote about a woman who sees a goat carcass and a man with no face while being driven back from an outing with the Gangster. [PWR]
  - A story by this author ends with the protagonist writing "the half-life of love is forever," five years after being mailed a book by his ex-girlfriend filled with his emails with the fifty women he cheated on her with. [PWR]
  - In addition to "The Cheater's Guide to Love," this author wrote a novel whose protagonist is beaten by Solomon Grundy and Gorilla Grod in a (*) canefield, but is saved by a golden mongoose.
  - This author wrote about a Rutgers student who succumbs to a curse inflicted by Rafael Trujillo in a story told by Yunior, who also narrates stories in Drown and This is How You Lose Her.
  - For 10 points, name this Dominican-American author of The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Junot Diaz
  - In a story by this author, the narrator's father forbids him from eating at his aunt's party to stop him from vomiting in their Volkswagen.
  - This author wrote a story about a nuclear apocalypse-obsessed teenager that has an affair with a muscular female teacher while dating Paloma. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, two cops beat the protagonist's mother hard enough to kill her unborn fetus, leaving her in a canefield where she is rescued by a golden mongoose. [PWR]
  - Lola's brother tries to (*) lose his virginity at Rutgers in that novel by this author, in which his recurring narrator Yunior describes the fuku curse afflicting an overweight sci-fi fanatic as a legacy of the Trujillo regime.
  - For 10 points, name this Dominican-American author of Drown, This Is How You Lose Her and The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. [GIVE]

[T7] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Junot Diaz
  - This author's characters include a man who calls his mother's prayer group "The Four Horsefaces of the Apocalypse" and a girl who every morning writes the phrase "tarde venientibus ossa," or "to the latecomers are lef the bones." In one of his stories, the protagonist is so disgusted by his father's new Volkswagen van that he vomits out of the passenger seat window.
  - This author wrote a story about the hospital laundry worker Yasmin, who intercepts the letters sent to her married lover by his wife.
  - He began his frst collection with a story about a boy whose face has been eaten by a pig, titled "Ysrael." This author included the story of "Poor Abelard," the father of the cancer-stricken Belicia Cabral, in a novel that begins by explaining the zafa, a counterspell to the fuku curse.
  - He continued the story of the character Yunior from that novel in his collections This is How You Lose Her and Drown.
  - For 10 points, name this Dominican-born author who wrote about a nerd's quest to lose his virginity in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one story, this character determines that a Harvard law student got knocked up by her Kenyan boyfriend and not him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yunior de Las Casas [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this narrator of the story "The Cheater's Guide to Love." This character also gives the title advice of the story "How to Date a Browngirl, Blackgirl, Whitegirl, or Halfie."
  Part 2 (ans: Junot Diaz ("joo-no" "Diaz") (The novel is The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.)):
    Yunior narrates This is How You Lose Her, a collection by this author. Yunior also narrates a novel by this author about a family plagued by a "fuku" curse.
  Part 3 (ans: drowning):
    Yunior also narrates a collection by Diaz titled for this manner of death. Ophelia kills herself in this manner in Hamlet.

[B2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The bodies of four women from this country are thrown off a cliff in the novel In the Time of the Butterflies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dominican Republic [or Republica Dominicana; reject "Dominica"] (The latter novel is Junot Diaz's The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, in which the title nickname resembles "Oscar Wilde" in a Dominican accent.)):
    Name this country, [emphasize] from which four sisters flee in Julia Alvarez's novel How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents. In a 2007 novel, the accents of boys from this country generate the title nickname of a sci-fi fan who suffers from a fuku curse.
  Part 2 (ans: United States of America [or USA; or America]):
    In that Alvarez novel, the Dominican Garcia girls lose their accents after fleeing to this primarily English-speaking country, where Chicano literature originated.
  Part 3 (ans: Edwidge Danticat ("DAWN-tee-kah")):
    People were murdered or spared based on their accents during the Dominican Republic's Parsley Massacre, an event depicted in this author's novel The Farming of Bones.

[B3] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Several writers have critiqued the dominance of MFA programs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elif Batuman):
    The n+1 collection MFA vs. NYC features this author's essay "The Invisible Vocation." This author's study of Russian literature informed her books The Possessed and The Idiot.
  Part 2 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    This author responded to MFA vs. NYC by critiquing white-dominated programs in his essay "MFA vs. POC." In 2018, Zinzi Clemmons claimed that she had been sexually harassed by this author of The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
  Part 3 (ans: Natasha Trethewey ("TRETH-uh-way")):
    Toi Derricotte co-founded the Cave Canem ("KAH-vay KAH-nem") Foundation to counteract the underrepresentation of African-American poets in MFA programs. The organization's first prize went to this poet of Native Guard and Bellocq's Ophelia who was appointed US Poet Laureate in 2012.

[B4] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote, "Me sacas lo mexicana en mi, / like it or not, honey," in her poem "You Bring Out the Mexican in Me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sandra Cisneros):
    Name this author. Esperanza Cordero says that "in English my name means hope" but "in Spanish it means too many letters" in this author's Spanglish-interspersed novel The House on Mango Street.
  Part 2 (ans: Dominican Republic [or Republica Dominicana or La Dominicana or DR; do not accept or prompt on "Dominica"] (The poet is Julia Alvarez; the novel is Junot Diaz's The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.)):
    A poet from this non-US country wrote, "the world was simple and intact in Spanish" in "Bilingual Sestina."Yunior narrates a semi-Spanglish novel partly set in this non-US country, in which Belicia and her son are both saved by a golden mongoose.
  Part 3 (ans: Yo-Yo Boing! (by Giannina Braschi)):
    The sections "Close-Up," "Blow-Up," and "Black-Out" divide this novel about a Nuyorican woman's struggle to write while haunted by the memory of her ex-lover Jabali ("hah-bah-LEE"). This is often considered the first fully Spanglish novel.

[B5] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This short story begins in second person, noting that "actually she's your fiance, but hey, in a bit it so won't matter". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Cheater's Guide to Love"):
    Name this final story of the collection This is How You Lose Her. Its narrator tries to put his life back together after the end of a relationship in which he was unfaithful for six years.
  Part 2 (ans: Yunior de las Casas [accept either underlined portion]):
    This personification of machismo is the protagonist of "The Cheater's Guide to Love". He narrates the novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, in which he advises the protagonist to start lifting weights.
  Part 3 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    Both "The Cheater's Guide to Love" and The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao are by this Dominican-American author.

[B6] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Chad Harbach edited a collection examining the contemporary cultural divide in American literature between these programs and New York City. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: MFA programs [prompt on creative writing programs by asking "What degree do these programs confer?"; accept Master of Fine Arts programs; accept masters in creative writing program]):
    Name these typically two- or three-year graduate programs attended by aspiring American fiction writers. Many of these programs were founded to emulate the principles of the Iowa Writers' Workshop.
  Part 2 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    This author critiqued the whiteness of MFA programs in his 2014 New Yorker article "MFA vs. POC." In May 2018, Zinzi Clemmons publicly accused him of sexually harassing her at a workshop, prompting him to step down as chair of the Pulitzer Prize Board.
  Part 3 (ans: Brown University):
    John Hawkes and Robert Coover were long-tenured instructors at this university's creative writing program, which encourages experimental fiction and poetry. George Houston Bass founded this university's Rites and Reason Theatre, one of the oldest black theatre workshops in the United States.

[B7] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these characters has a recurring dream of a coffin containing piles of clothes laid atop the bodies of her male relatives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: butterflies [or butterfly; prompt on Mirabal sisters; the novel is In the Time of the Butterflies by Julia Alvarez]):
    Identify the collective nickname of the sisters Minerva, Patria, and Mate ("MAH-tay"), who are strangled, clubbed, and thrown in a Jeep that is pushed off a cliff by the henchmen of a dictator in a 1994 novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    The aforementioned dictator, Rafael Trujillo ("troo-HEE-yo"), inflicts a supernatural curse called a fuku upon the family of an overweight Dominican teen who is struggling to lose his virginity in this author's novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
  Part 3 (ans: Edwidge Danticat ("ed-WEEJ don-tee-KAH")):
    Trujillo orders his goons to execute anyone with a non-standard pronunciation of the Spanish word for "parsley" in The Farming of Bones, a novel by this Haitian author of Breath, Eyes, Memory.

[B8] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about other examples of second person narration:
  Part 1 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    This author of the collection This is How You Lose Her used the second person point of view in his stories "How to date a Browngirl, Blackgirl, Whitegirl, or Halfie" and "The Cheater's Guide to Love."
  Part 2 (ans: Ludmilla):
    In perhaps the best known novel written in second person POV, If on a winter's night a traveler , you meet and befriend this woman, your ostensible crush, at a bookstore.

[B9] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character created by this author compares Rafael Trujillo to Sauron. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    Name this Dominican-American author who wrote about a sci-fi nerd who is killed after falling in love with Ybon in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
  Part 2 (ans: Yunior):
    This narrator of The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, Oscar's roommate, also narrates many of the short stories in the collection Drown. He regrets telling a girl he cheated on "Baby, this is part of my novel" in "Alma."
  Part 3 (ans: This is How You Lose Her):
    Yunior's brother Rafa gets cancer and marries the title undocumented girl in this collection's story "The Pura Principle." Yunior's relationships are described in this collection's last story, "The Cheater's Guide to Love."

[B10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author included the second-person short story "Alma," whose title girlfriend discovers an Indian girl named Laxmi cheating with the reader, in This Is How You Lose Her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    Name this author and creative writing professor at MIT, who included his recurring character Yunior in his earlier collection Drown.
  Part 2 (ans: Dominican Republic [or D.R.; or Republica Dominicana; do not accept "Dominica"]):
    Diaz, like the family in his novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, migrated from this Caribbean country, where the Wao family incurred a curse called a fuku by opposing Rafael Trujillo.
  Part 3 (ans: Dinaw Mengestu):
    This author of All Our Names and How to Read the Air drew on his immigrant experience, having moved with his family from Ethiopia at age two, in a book about D.C. resident Sepha Stephanos called The Beautiful Things That Heaven Bears.

[B11] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author won the second annual OCM Bocas Prize in 2012 for his book about Kangkala, Sonnyboy, and other inhabitants of Cascadu starting in the 1970s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Earl Lovelace):
    Name this author of Is Just a Movie who also wrote about Fisheye and Pariag living on Calvary Hill in another work.
  Part 2 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    This contemporary writer from the Caribbean wrote about Yunior, who compares Rafael Trujillo to Sauron, in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
  Part 3 (ans: This Is How You Lose Her):
    The longlist for the 2013 OCM Bocas Prize in fiction included this Diaz collection that starts out with "The Sun, the Moon, The Stars," about Yunior's relationship struggles with Magdalena.
