=== STOCK CLUES: Martin Luther ===
Tossup questions: 21 found, 108 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 41 found, 122 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 City Limits (2025) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: January ("Happy Birthday" is by Stevie Wonder and promoted Martin Luther King Day) ~31392~
  - The arrival of 102 Koreans to Hawaii in this month in 1903 is why Korean American Day is now celebrated in this month. [PWR]
  - Boston's L Street Brownies pioneered a tradition taking place in this month whose largest celebration takes place at Sandy Point State Park in Anne Arundel County, Maryland. [PWR]
  - Each year, people gather at Chicago's Adler Planetarium in this month for a city-wide car scavenger hunt. [PWR]
  - A song to support a federal holiday in this month wonders, "Why has there never been a holiday / Where peace is celebrated / All throughout the world" and is titled (*) "Happy Birthday." Tennessee was the first state to adopt a Lost Cause holiday celebrated in this month honoring Robert E. [PWR]
  - Lee.
  - The first day of this month is when Philly's Mummers Parade takes place.
  - For 10 points, name this month where polar bear plunges take place on New Year's Day. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Answer: Malcolm X AND Martin Luther King Jr. [accept Malcolm X or Malcolm Little or Malik el-Shabbaz in place of "Malcolm"; accept MLK Jr. in place of "Martin Luther King Jr."] (Remember This House is by James Baldwin and depicts Malcolm X, MLK, and Medgar Evers.)
  - Two answers required.
  - These two people are the focus of the most recent season of Nat Geo's Genius, which draws on Peniel Joseph's book The Sword and the Shield and Jeff Stetson's play The Meeting.
  - One of these people never actually said that the other has done "a great disservice" according to research by Jonathan Eig for his 2023 biography of one of them.
  - These were the two most recent people to die of the three who are the focus of the unfinished book Remember This House.
  - Opposing quotes by these people, and a photo of them together, appear after the destruction of Sal's Pizzeria to end the film Do the Right Thing.
  - One year before going on Hajj, one of these people mocked the other's "farce on Washington." For 10 points, the labels of "militant" and "pacifist" are often given to what Civil Rights leaders who were killed in 1965 and 1968? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Martin Luther
  - A text by this thinker opens by stating that Jesus "willed the entire life of believers to be one of repentance." This thinker wrote that a Christian is both a "lord of all" and a "servant of all." This author of On the Freedom of a Christian responded to the Twelve Articles by contrasting the "spiritual kingdom" and "worldly kingdom" in pamphlets targeted against "thieving, murderous peasants." This thinker called the Epistle of James an "epistle of straw" due to its claim that "faith without works is dead." A slogan coined by Johann Tetzel promoting the sale of indulgences was attacked by this thinker, who was condemned at the 1521 Diet of Worms .
  - For 10 points, name this reformer whose Ninety-five Theses began the Protestant Reformation. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 FEMTO (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Luther [accept Lutherzither]
  - Ferdinand Roese wrongly named the forest zither after this composer due to the mistaken belief that he was a virtuoso of it. [PWR]
  - This composer's simplification of the Te Deum is often called his home country's version of the hymn.
  - Along with Paul Speratus, this composer's works first appeared in a collection called the "Eight Song Book" and the Erfurt Enchiridion. [PWR]
  - This composer developed a genre made of three short phrases in AAB form that was often used for the last movement of (*) cantatas. [PWR]
  - The melody: C, C, C, G - A - B, C - B - A, long G begins a piece by this inventor of the chorale.
  - This composer defended his right to modify Gregorian chants by asking, "why should the devil have all the good tunes?" A piece by this composer about "a bulwark never failing" is quoted in Mendelssohn's fifth symphony.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God". [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 TELEOLOGY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Luther
  - This person wrote "even if you wanted to encompass all of it, you would appear to have grasped nothing at all" in the preface to Georg Rhau's Symphoniae iucundae.
  - This person praised Josquin de Prez as "the master of notes" since "they have to do as he bids them; other composers have to do as the notes will." A quip most commonly attributed to this person provides the title of a piano concerto premiered in 2019 by Yuja Wang and the LA Phil; that piece is the third piano concerto by John Adams.
  - The death of two men in (*) Brussels inspired the first published music by this person called "We 're raising a new song." Julius Eastman's minimalist piece "Gay Guerilla" builds up to a quotation of a much earlier piece attributed to this person.
  - This person wrote, "next to the Word of God, music deserves the highest praise." Quotations of a piece written by this person appear in the finale of Felix Mendelssohn's Symphony No. 5.
  - When asked why he used secular songs in composing new hymns, this man apocryphally said "why should the Devil have all the good tunes?" For 10 points, name this reformer who wrote the hymn "A Mighty Fortress is Our God." [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Martin Luther
  - Lyndal Roper discussed this man's story of a woman farting to shoo away a poltergeist in an anal-humor-filled collection edited by John Aurifaber .
  - Johannes Mathesius, the author of the Formula of Concord, wrote a popular biography of this man; Mathesius also transcribed some of this man's saying from the book Table Talk. [PWR]
  - John the Steadfast gifted this man the Black Cloisters after returning from a period of exile during which he went by (*) "Junker Jorg ." This man prepared a summary of his teachings for a meeting of the Schmalkaldic League. [PWR]
  - This self-proclaimed "stout doctor" was often depicted next to the thinner Philip Melanchthon .
  - This man legendarily declared "Here I stand, I can do no other" at the Diet of Worms .
  - For 10 points, name this man whose 95 Theses spurred the Protestant Reformation. [GIVE]

[T7] 2023 Black History Month Packet (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: speeches by Martin Luther King, Jr. [accept MLK Jr. in place of "Martin Luther King"; prompt on speeches with "by whom?"]
  - "Fierce urgency" is promoted in one of these works as an alternative to "the luxury of cooling off" or "the tranquilizing drug of gradualism." One of these works delivered in Oslo that quoted the same "vine and fig tree" verse as George Washington's farewell address described important events that happened "only yesterday" and described being "beleagured and committed to unrelenting struggle," before ending by describing peace as "more precious than diamonds or silver or gold." Besides that one given after accepting the (*) Nobel Peace Prize, the last of these works relates the tale of the Good Samaritan reversing the question "If I stop to help this man, what will happen to me?" to instead ask "If I do not stop to help this man, what will happen to him?" That one of these works describes a stabbing by a "demented black woman," and was given the day before his actual assassination by James Earl Ray.
  - The most famous of these works describes the title hope for a world in which the speaker's "four little children" "will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character." For 10 points, name these works that include "I've Been to the Mountaintop" and "I Have a Dream." [GIVE]

[T8] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Martin Luther King Jr. [or MLK Jr.; accept "The Apotheosis of Martin Luther King"] (The speech is "I've Been to the Mountaintop.")
  - Elizabeth Hardwick wrote that this man embodied the "old, pure tradition" of George Eliot's Dinah Morris in an essay on his "apotheosis." This man cited T. [PWR]
  - S. [PWR]
  - Eliot's idea that "the last temptation is the greatest treason: To do the right deed for the wrong reason" in a work that responds to the criticism that he has been "unwise and untimely." Katori Hall's 2011 play about this man is titled for a speech that he ended by quoting from the "Battle Hymn of the Republic" after envisioning a (*) "Promised Land." The book Why We Can't Wait collects a response by this man to the article "A Call for Unity" written by eight white clergymen, in which this man argued that "justice too long delayed is justice denied" and "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." For 10 points, the "Letter from Birmingham Jail" was written by what civil rights leader? [GIVE]

[T9] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK]
  - Myisha Cherry has critiqued Martha Nussbaum's account of this thinker's use of "transition-anger," which appears in Tommie Shelby's volume on this thinker's philosophy, To Shape a New World. [PWR]
  - The "Conclusion" of Martin Hagglund's This Life centers on this American's call for a "radical revolution of values." An essay by this thinker cites Martin Buber's notion of "I-It"  relationships to explain how "man-made" codes can "distort" the soul in a defense of Saint (*) Augustine's maxim that "an unjust law is no law at all." This thinker, who claimed that the "arc of the moral universe... bends towards justice," wrote that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere" in an essay on civil disobedience.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Letter from a Birmingham Jail." [GIVE]

[T10] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Luther
  - It's not the Beast, but bees fly around one of this figure's seven heads in a woodcut by Hans Brosamer.
  - The dead bodies of Aristotle and four other philosophers appear below this figure in a caricature as Hercules by Hans Holbein the Younger.
  - This figure points to a book as blood falls on a self-portrait of an artist in the central panel of the Weimar Altarpiece.
  - Because of a prophecy at the Council of Constance, this figure is often depicted with a swan.
  - A Hans Baldung Grien woodcut of this figure as a saint inspired a lament to him by Albrecht Durer.
  - An artist represented by a winged serpent shared his printing presses with this man.
  - This man appears in a black robe with a floppy hat in many portraits by his friend Lucas Cranach the Elder.
  - For 10 points, Cranach also made 22 woodcuts for the Bible translation by what German reformer? [GIVE]

[T11] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Answer: Martin Luther
  - This thinker contrasted mere tyrants with "werewolves," rulers whom the population had the right to murder along with their subordinates.
  - This thinker remarks that a prince is a "rare bird in heaven" in an address which describes the exclusive authority to call a church council as the third of "three walls" constructed to usurp political authority.
  - This thinker's book On Temporal Authority proposes a distinction between the coercive government of the sword and spiritual government of the divine, commonly called the "doctrine of two kingdoms." This author of To the Christian Nobility of Germany sided with magistrates against Anabaptist clergy and their thousands of unruly followers in a tract against "thieving, murderous hordes of peasants." For 10 points, what religious leader declared "Here I stand, I can do no other" at the 1521 Diet of Worms ? [GIVE]

[T12] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Answer: Luther Bible [or Lutherbibel; accept Martin Luther's New Testament as that was more commonly printed than the full Bible; accept September Bible before "September"; prompt on the Bible or New Testament or German Bible]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - Christian Walther testified as to how the author of this book explicitly approved of its 128 woodcuts by Master MS. [PWR]
  - The language in this book was chosen on the principle that "we must ask the mother in the home, the children on the street" and was justified in a reply to Jerome Emser. [PWR]
  - The word "allein" [ah-LINE] was controversially added to a key passage in this book. [PWR]
  - Over 100,000 copies of a 2-groschen edition of this book were printed by Carl Hildebrand von Canstein. [PWR]
  - This book introduced iconic alliterative phrases such as (*) "Der Herr ist mein Hirte." This book is sometimes named for the month of September, when it was first printed in 1522. [PWR]
  - This book draws heavily on a Greek text known as the Novum Instrumentum omne, published by Erasmus.
  - For 10 points, name this religious text partially translated from Hebrew into German by the author of the 95 Theses. [GIVE]

[T13] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Martin Luther King, Sr. [accept anything that indicates MLK's father; prompt on just King; do not accept just "MLK"]
  - Early on, this activist chaired the Committee on the Equalization of Teachers' Salaries, which won higher pay for black teachers in his home city. [PWR]
  - This activist physically embraced Jimmy Carter after Carter made comments about "ethnic purity," which helped to rally the black vote for Carter and earned this activist the role of leading the 1976 DNC's opening prayer. [PWR]
  - This activist's wife was killed while playing the organ by an anti-religious maniac named Marcus Wayne Chenault.
  - That assassination took place at the (*) Ebenezer Baptist Church, where this activist was the primary pastor from 1931 until his death. [PWR]
  - After attending a World Baptist Alliance meeting in Berlin, this activist honored a German religious figure by changing both his own name and the name of his five-year-old son.
  - For 10 points, name this leader of the Atlanta NAACP whose son later led the Montgomery Bus Boycott. [GIVE]

[T14] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Martin Luther [accept Young Man Luther]
  - The mysticism of this person's theology is compared to Freudian psychoanalysis in Norman Brown's Life Against Death, which notes how this person spent significant time contemplating the devil while on the toilet.
  - A concept of a "second birth" is identified in this person's life in a psychological biography that analyzes how he rejected his father's plan for him to pursue a law career.
  - When caught in a (*) thunderstorm, this man vowed to Saint Anne that, if he survived, he would commit his life to a monastery.
  - This man, whose identity crisis is analyzed in Erik Erikson's biography about him as a "young man," proclaimed "here I stand, I can do no other" before he was denounced by Pope Leo X  at the Diet of Worms.
  - For 10 points, name this reformer who promulgated 95 theses. [GIVE]

[T15] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Luther (Mendelssohn's fifth is the "Reformation" Symphony.)
  - Eighteen works by this composer were published alongside contributions by friends like Elisabeth Cruciger in an Enchiridion conceived as a follow-up to this man's "Eight-song Book." Under the influence of the "Tenor-song" genre, this composer used the "A-A-B" Bar form for many of his tunes. [PWR]
  - In an 1834 review, Robert Schumann contrasted adaptations of this man's music by Felix Mendelssohn and Giacomo Meyerbeer. [PWR]
  - A tune by this composer begins with three repeated Cs, followed by the shorter notes "G-A-B, C-B-A, G." This man justified his vernacular adaptations of (*) Gregorian chants by supposedly asking "Why must the Devil have all the good tunes?" This composer's "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" was the basis for the last movement of Mendelssohn's Symphony No. 5. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this German who advocated the use of instruments and polyphony in church, unlike his rival John Calvin. [GIVE]

[T16] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Answer: Martin Luther
  - Tillich's autobiographical On the Boundary contrasts the effects that socialism had on his life with the effects of this man's ideas.
  - The complete collection of this man's work is the Weimarer Ausgabe.
  - This man's friend Johannes Bugenhagen was his town priest and helped this man with his translation of the Bible, to which he added the word "alone" in Romans.
  - He wanted to remove the book of James because it violated his most important doctrine, (*) justification by faith alone. [PWR]
  - He notes that Christ called the title group a brood of vipers in Matthew and says "we are at fault for not slaying them" in On the Jews and Their Lies.
  - This man was incensed to write his most famous work by a dispute with Johann Tetzel over the sale of indulgences.
  - For 10 points, name this German theologian who posted his 95 Theses to kick off the Reformation. [GIVE]

[T17] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
  - In a speech adapted from one by J.
  - Wallace Hamilton, this man noted that Alfred Adler identified the "quest for recognition" as the basic human impulse, an impulse he termed the "Drum Major Instinct." He noted that when "profit motives...are considered more important than people, the giant triplets of racism, militarism and economic exploitation are incapable of being conquered" in a speech explaining "Why I Am Opposed to the War in Vietnam." In his last speech, he claimed to have "seen the promised land" and "been to the mountaintop." He noted that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere" in a "Letter from Birmingham Jail." For 10 points, name this orator who envisioned a day when his "four children will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character" in his "I Have a Dream" Speech. [GIVE]

[T18] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. [or assassination of MLK, accept synonyms for "assassination"]
  - Years after this event, Loyd Jowers was fined $100 in civil court for his role in it.
  - Five days after it, a service took place where a recording of one participant's "Drum Major" speech was played.
  - Unsubstantiated claims suggest a mysterious figure named "Raul" may be actually responsible for this event.
  - A photograph of this event shows Andrew Young and others pointing to the upper left while standing on a balcony.
  - The man at the center of this event was in town to support striking sanitation workers and gave the "I've Been to the Mountaintop" address the night before.
  - This event occurred at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis and was carried out by James Earl Ray.
  - For 10 points, identify this 1968 murder of a civil rights leader. [GIVE]

[T19] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. [accept equivalents for King like MLK]
  - Janet Reno launched an investigation into this event following a confession of a bar owner named Loyd Jowers that aired on ABC. [PWR]
  - The man responsible for this event was eventually found in London using the name Ramon George Sneyd on a false passport. [PWR]
  - The Columbia Heights neighborhood of Washington, D.C. was largely destroyed in a (*) riot instigated by followers of Stokely Carmichael in the aftermath of this event. [PWR]
  - Some people learned of this event in a speech that Robert Kennedy gave in Indianapolis.
  - This event took place during a struggle between Mayor Henry Loeb and the city's sanitation workers.
  - This event took place at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis and followed the deliverance of the "I've Been to the Mountaintop" speech.
  - For 10 points, name this murder carried out by James Earl Ray. [GIVE]

[T20] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Martin Luther
  - One work by this thinker states that justification is "in despite of its majesty and beauty, does not know itself a priori, but only a posteriori". [PWR]
  - Another work by this philosopher states that "a person has changed for the worse if they disregard the laws to help others". [PWR]
  - In addition to writing Dispution Concerning Man and Two Kinds of Righteousness, this philosopher also argued that humans have nothing but "empty achievements" in his (*)Heidelburg Disputation. [PWR]
  - This man's pupil Andreas Karlstadt argued against the need for penance and alms giving against Johann Eck in the Leipzig Debate.
  - This man also argued for the doctrine of Sola Fide and denounced the presence of the Real Christ in a debate at Marburg against Huldrych Zwingli.
  - For 10 points identify this Reformation philosophy who also famously attacked the concept of indulgences and papal infallibility in his 95 Theses. [GIVE]

[T21] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. [accept any reasonable equivalents]
  - In the wake of this event, Corky Gonzalez helped set up a system of shantytowns known as "Resurrection City" in a last-ditch effort to secure an "Economic Bill of Rights," the culmination of the "Poor People's Campaign" effectively scuttled by this event. [PWR]
  - Walter Washington rose to prominence by tempering the aftermath of this event, which also prompted a speech quoting Aeschylus to be delivered in Indianapolis by a presidential candidate. [PWR]
  - This action led to the swift resolution of a sanitation workers' strike and prevented the delivery of the (*) speech "Why America May Go to Hell," while prior to it, the central figure predicted "difficult days ahead" and noted "I may not get there with you." This action was perpetrated by a man later arrested at Heathrow Airport a day after the delivery of the "I've Been to the Mountaintop" speech, and occurred on the balcony of the Lorraine Hotel in Memphis. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, identify this 1968 event in which James Earl Ray shot the foremost leader of the Civil Rights movement. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: After his capture, this man supposedly proclaimed that he fought for Omnia Sunt Communia, the principle of redistributing wealth so all would be in common, leading some historians to see his struggle as a precursor to communism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Muntzer):
    Name this preacher who played a leading role during the German Peasants' War until his capture after the Battle of Frankenhausen.
  Part 2 (ans: 12 Articles):
    Muntzer is thought to have drafted a supporting document called the constitutional draft for this set of demands by the German Peasants, which included the right for the peasants to elect their own preachers.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This theologian attacked the peasant revolt Muntzer helped lead in "Against the Thieving, Murderous Peasants." This theologian began the Protestant Reformation with his 95 Theses.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the phrase "the arc of justice," for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther King Jr. [or MLK Jr.]):
    This reverend and civil rights leader popularized the quote, "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice," using it during the marches from Selma to Montgomery.
  Part 2 (ans: Theodore Parker):
    MLK took the phrase from a longer passage by this abolitionist. This member of the Secret Six that backed John Brown originated the phrase "of all the people, by all the people, for all the people," later used by Abraham Lincoln.
  Part 3 (ans: Michigan):
    Kevin Boyle's book The Arc of Justice is a tale of "Murder in the Jazz Age," specifically the trials of Ossian and Henry Sweet that ended in a hung jury in this state.

[B3] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: During one of these events, Spiro Agnew delivered a notorious tirade addressed to Baltimore community leaders like Verda Welcome. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: King assassination riots [accept descriptions that mention Martin Luther King Jr. or MLK; prompt on 1968 riots or synonyms]):
    Most of 14th Street Is Gone is a history of the impact of what events on DC? This wave of protests, also called the Holy Week Uprising, was prompted by a shooting at the Lorraine Motel in 1968.
  Part 2 (ans: housing discrimination [accept fair housing or open housing; accept housing anti-discrimination; accept Fair Housing Act; prompt on descriptions of discrimination in the sale or rental of dwelling places; reject "public housing" or "affordable housing"]):
    Titles VIII and IX of the 1968 Civil Rights Act, which was signed during the riots, are commonly named for this issue. The Ink for Jack campaign arose from JFK's failure to use a "stroke of the pen" to address this issue, which was the focus of the Chicago Freedom Movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Glenville shootout):
    Months after asking King protesters to "cool it for Carl," Cleveland mayor Carl Stokes had his Now! program derailed by riots after this event. Ahmed Evans's New Libya faced police in this four-hour gun battle.

[B4] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Hans Brosamer placed titles such as "doctor" and "Barrabas" above a seven-headed caricature of this man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther [accept Caricature of Luther with Seven Heads]):
    Name this man, whose supporters created a woodcut showing a mob of thieves storming a sheep shed. A different artist created a double portrait of this man with his wife, who is wearing a fur coat.
  Part 2 (ans: "Little Masters" [or "Kleinmeisters"]):
    Hans Brosamer and the creator of Christ and the Sheep Shed belonged to this group. Members of this group of printmakers such as Barthel Beham and his brother Sebald were derided as "godless painters" by their home city of Nuremberg.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [or Lucas Cranach der Altere; prompt on Lucas Cranach]):
    This artist depicted his friend Martin Luther with a black hat in front of a plain blue background. This Northern Renaissance artist used a signature of a winged snake biting a ruby ring.

[B5] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: As a result of declarations made at this event, Jacob Poost was arrested, while Jan van Essen and Hendrik Vos were burnt at the stake. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Diet of Worms ("vorms") of 1521 [accept Edict of Worms]):
    Name this event condemning a man who defended his views from Leo X's ("the tenthʼs") bull Exsurge domine. Johann Eck presided over this event, during which its central participant may have said "Here I stand, I cannot do otherwise."
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This man was convicted in the Diet of Worms after Pope Leo X ("the tenth") criticized his Ninety-five Theses. This German priest kickstarted the Protestant Revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Affair of the Sausages [or Affare mit den Wurstchen]):
    In a contemporary incident, the Reformation began in Zurich when Christoph Froschauer was arrested in this "affair" for breaking religious law. Swiss pastor Huldrych Zwingli ("HUL-dreekh TSVING-lee") criticized Lenten dietary restrictions during this event.

[B6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Caspar Shoppe wrote a scathing eyewitness account of this man's execution, noting: "thus he miserably burned, and now probably dwells [in] those other Worlds he invented." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giordano Bruno):
    Name this man, who was executed in 1600 after returning to Italy from exile to teach Giovanni Mocenigo memory techniques. He argued for a heliocentric universe that was infinite.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Bellarmine):
    This Cardinal was the lead prosecutor at Bruno's trial, performing a similar role in the later trial of Galileo. This man wrote numerous papers attacking the oath of allegiance required of English Catholics by James I.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther [accept Lutherans; accept the Lutheran Church]):
    Bruno's teachings also got him excommunicated from a religious group named for this German priest whose 95 Theses kickstarted the Protestant Revolution.

[B7] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama for The Hot Wing King, which takes place during the title festival in Memphis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Katori Hall):
    Name this playwright who, in her play The Mountaintop, depicted Room 306 of a motel just prior to the central character's assassination.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King Jr. [or MLK Jr.]):
    Hall's play The Mountaintop was inspired by the assassination of this civil rights leader, who wrote that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere" in his "Letter from Birmingham Jail."
  Part 3 (ans: Lynn Nottage):
    Hall's first play Hoodoo Love, in which Toulou tries to woo her boyfriend with the help of Candylady, was selected by this other playwright for the Cherry Lane Theatre. This author used working-class Reading, Pennsylvania as the setting for her 2017 play Sweat.

[B8] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title of Larry Norman's single "Why Should The Devil Have All the Good Music?" paraphrases a quote by this composer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther [that hymn is "A Mighty Fortress is Our God"]):
    Name this composer of much of the "Eight Song Book." The second line of one of this religious figure's hymns is alternately rendered as "a sword and shield victorious" and "a bulwark never failing."
  Part 2 (ans: rock music [or Christian rock; or psychedelic rock; or blues rock]):
    Larry Norman was the "Father" of the "Christian" variant of this style. Randall J. Stephens' The Devil's Music argues that Christian music inspired this broad musical style of the allegedly Satanic Beatles and Rolling Stones.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas A. Dorsey [or Thomas Andrew Dorsey; or Georgia Tom; or Tommy Dorsey; or Thomas Francis Dorsey, Jr.]):
    Elvis's last Ed Sullivan showing closed with "Peace in the Valley," a Gospel song by this composer of "Take My Hand, Precious Lord." A trombonist of the same name popularized "Song of India" after breaking away from his brother Jimmy.

[B9] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Sixteen-year old Larry Kayne was shot for marching in support of this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1968 Memphis sanitation strike):
    Identify this 1968 event that began after the deaths of Echol Cole and Robert Walker. An activist delivered the "I've Been to the Mountaintop" speech in support of this event at Mason Temple one day before his assassination.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK Jr.]):
    That "I've Been to the Mountaintop" speech was given by this civil rights leader who was shot one day later in Memphis by James Earl Ray.
  Part 3 (ans: Lorraine Motel):
    Ray shot King in the evening on a balcony at this landmark. This landmark now serves as part of the National Civil Rights Museum.

[B10] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This country was the westernmost signatory of the armistice that made the diplomat and civil rights activist Ralph Bunche the first Black winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Arab Republic of) Egypt [or Jumhuriyyat Misr al-ʿArabi] (The "event" was the Suez Crisis.)):
    Name this country that inspired the Eisenhower Doctrine. The US threatened to sell its pound sterling bonds during an event this country caused after the US withdrew its funding for hydroelectric projects in it.
  Part 2 (ans: United Nations):
    Ralph Bunche served as director of this intergovernmental organization's Trusteeship Council and helped draft its Universal Declaration of Human Rights with Eleanor Roosevelt
  Part 3 (ans: "Beyond Vietnam: A Time to Break the Silence"[accept either underlined portion; accept the Riverside Church Speech; prompt on descriptions of MLK publicly announcing his opposition to the Vietnam War] (by Martin Luther King, Jr.)):
    Bunche criticized this 1967 speech in Harlem for alienating possible supporters of the civil rights movement. It described the US as "approaching spiritual death" by funding the military over "programs of social uplift."

[B11] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: On an episode of the show spun off from this comic, Werner Herzog films a documentary about the 2008 presidential election. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Boondocks (Huey Newton wrote Revolutionary Suicide.)):
    Name this comic strip collected in A Right to be Hostile, which was often moved to newspaper editorial pages for its political content. Its protagonist was named for the author of Revolutionary Suicide.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK]):
    In a controversial Boondocks episode, this man survives his assassination and wakes up from a coma shortly before 9/11. In 2017, Arkansas finally stopped recognizing Robert E. Lee Day on the same day as this man's federal holiday.
  Part 3 (ans: The Source):
    Early versions of the Boondocks strip appeared in this long-running magazine, whose "Unsigned Hype" column helped rappers like The Notorious B.I.G. hit it big.

[B12] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The authenticity of this book of the New Testament has been doubted since the second century, with Origen noting that it seemed too polished to have been written by Paul. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Epistle to the Hebrews):
    Name this book, which describes faith as 'the substance of things hoped for, and the evidence of things not seen.'
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This religious reformer devised their own canon of the Bible, relegating Jude, James, and Hebrews to the end of their German translation of the Bible, which was done in the Wartburg after they were outlawed at the Diet of Worms.
  Part 3 (ans: good works / deeds / actions):
    Luther was particularly hostile to the Epistle of James, describing it as 'an epistle of straw' for its contention that 'faith without [these things] is dead'.

[B13] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Social Science
     Leadin: In a translation prepared by Talcott Parsons, the history of this German word is recounted in three page-spanning footnotes concluding that the notion it conveys was, until much later, absent in Catholic countries speaking Romance languages. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beruf ("buh-ROOF")):
    Give this German-language noun that, in the works of Max Weber, is usually translated into English as "profession," "calling," or "vocation."
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther [accept "Luther's Conception of the Calling"]):
    In a section of "The Protestant Ethic" titled for this man's "conception of the calling," Weber traces the modern capitalist notion of "vocation" through this church reformer's German Bible translation.
  Part 3 (ans: law [or legal field; accept rule of law or rational-legal authority]):
    "The Protestant Ethic" links "vocation" to the rise of this field. Weber's Economy and Society argues that this field's "rational" authority characterized modern European governments and defines it as being based on the "external guarantee" of "physical or psychological coercion."

[B14] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Stevie Wonder released the song "Happy Birthday" and, along with this man's widow, submitted a petition with six million signatures to Congress in an effort to make this man's birthday a national holiday. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK]):
    Name this civil rights leader whose birthday has been celebrated as a federal holiday on the third Monday in January since 1986.
  Part 2 (ans: Jesse Helms, Jr.):
    This notoriously racist North Carolina senator and longtime chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations committee filibustered the effort to create MLK Day. Michael Jordan declared "Republicans buy sneakers, too" when he declined to support this man's rival Harvey Gantt.
  Part 3 (ans: Carol Moseley Braun):
    Trying to make her cry, Helms sang "Dixie" to this woman in a Senate elevator as she fought the renewal of the patent on the United Daughters of the Confederacy's logo. With Barbara Mikulski, she wore pants on the Senate floor in defiance of an absurd Senate rule.

[B15] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Ralph Perk, a mayor of this city, accidentally lit his hair on fire with a welding torch while cutting a metal ribbon at an engineering convention. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cleveland, Ohio):
    Name this city, where Perk succeeded Carl Stokes, the first black mayor of a major American city.
  Part 2 (ans: Malcolm X [or Malcolm Little or el-Hajj Malik el-Shabazz]):
    This man opened a speech first delivered in Cleveland by noting the presence of "brothers, sisters, friends, and I see some enemies." That was his "Ballot or the Bullet" speech.
  Part 3 (ans: assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. [accept death of MLK or other synonyms in place of assassination]):
    Stokes organized "peace patrols" of clergymen and black community leaders to calm tensions in black neighborhoods after this April 4, 1968 event at the Lorraine Motel.

[B16] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This document argued for the right of the peasantry to appoint and depose community pastors and for the abolition of the Todfall death tax. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Twelve Articles of the Swabian Peasants"):
    Name this numbered set of demands widely distributed by German peasants from Swabia during the 1525 German Peasants' War.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This writer rejected the Twelve Articles and the motivations of the German Peasants' War in general in his tract Against the Murderous, Thieving Hordes of Peasants. This reformer earlier attacked the Catholic Church in the Ninety-five Theses.
  Part 3 (ans: Zwickau prophets [accept Zwickauer Propheten; accept Zwickauer Storchianer]):
    Luther also opposed this group of Anabaptists influenced by Thomas Muntzer. This group, which included Thomas Dreschal and Nicholas Storch, believed themselves to receive messages directly from God.

[B17] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A famous melody in this genre was composed by Franz Xaver Gruber with lyrics written by Joseph Mohr. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christmas carols):
    Name this genre. Adolphe Adam wrote a French work in this genre titled Minuit, chretiens!, which has been adapted into the English "Oh Holy Night".
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    The carol "Vom Himmel hoch, da komm ich her" was written by this prolific hymn composer whose other hymns include "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God."
  Part 3 (ans: Hodie):
    The procession and recession of Benjamin Britten's A Ceremony of Carols both begin with this Latin word that also titles a Christmas cantata by Ralph Vaughan Williams.

[B18] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the 1521 Diet of Worms ("Vurms").
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther):
    It was a hearing for this leader of the Protestant Reformation, who had written 95 Theses against indulgences.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick III [or Friedrich III; accept Frederick the Wise or Friedrich der Weise]):
    The excommunicated Luther got to have a hearing thanks to the intervention of this elector of Saxony, who was the third of his name and known as "the Wise." This man later hid Luther in Wartburg castle.
  Part 3 (ans: Johann Eck [accept either; accept John; accept von Eck; accept Johann Maier von Eck]):
    The "judge" at the Diet of Worms was the archbishop of Trier, who somehow shared his first and last name with a professor who had debated Luther at the University of Leipzig in 1519. Give either the shared first name or the shared last name of those two men.

[B19] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Description acceptable. In 2014, Wissam Akiki created controversy by becoming the first person in the Americas with this distinction. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: married priests [accept reasonable descriptions; accept clergy in place of priests]):
    Identify this distinction commonly given in Latin as "viri probati." The synod in the Amazon will be held in October 2019 to discuss this distinction.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This Protestant reformed set a precedent for clerical marriage by marrying Katharina von Bora. He is better known for nailing his 95 theses to the door of the All Saints' Church in Wittenburg.
  Part 3 (ans: Syriac Maronite Church of Antioch):
    The aforementioned Wissam Akiki is a member of the clergy of this oldest Eastern Catholic church, based in Bkerke ("ib-KER-key"), Lebanon.

[B20] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Dozens of churches had a lower side-door used only for these people, who were the subject of unfounded rumors about their misshapen earlobes or their affinity for carpentry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cagots [kah-GOH] [or Agotes or Gahets or Capets or Capots or Caqueux or ladres or gesitains or chrestiaa; prompt on carpenters or charpentiers]):
    Name this group from western France and the Pyrenees. They've been discriminated against for a millennium but nobody knows why, as there are no major genetic, religious, or social traits setting them apart from neighbors.
  Part 2 (ans: leprosy [or Hansen's disease; accept lepers or leper colonies]):
    Medieval French documents often conflate cagots with sufferers of this disease. Its victims often had extreme skin lesions and were exiled to "colonies" such as the one preached to by Father Damian on Molokai in Hawaii.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo X [or Giovanni di Lorenzo de' Medici; prompt on just Medici or Leo] (Exsurge Domine was a response to Martin Luther's Ninety-Five Theses.)):
    This pope issued a bull declaring equal treatment of the cagots, which locals ignored or protested. His other declarations include Exsurge Domine, which condemned the heresy of at least 41 points from a longer list.

[B21] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A man is delivered room service by the beautiful made Camae, who is revealed to be an angel, in a play titled for this location by Katori Hall. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Mountaintop [accept "I've Been to the Mountaintop"]):
    Name this location. A quote about this allegorical location titles a speech that its speaker concluded with the quote "Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the lord!"
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK]):
    The speech "I've Been to the Mountaintop" was given by this civil rights activist, who also delivered the "I Have a Dream" speech.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikki Giovanni):
    This poet asked "What can I, a poor Black woman, do to destroy America?" in a poem written in response to the assassination of Martin Luther King. This author of "Knoxville, Tennessee" delivered a memorial chant-poem shortly after the shooting at Virginia Tech, where she is a faculty member.

[B22] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: A newly-elected government headed by Gaston Eyskens ended a crisis in which an institution in this city split into two factions, mirroring a similar split in the Christian Social Party. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leuven [or Louvain]):
    Name this city whose Catholic university divided into two separate institutions based on language in 1968. The predecessor to those universities was founded by Pope Martin V ("the-fifth") upon request by John IV ("the-fourth"), Duke of Brabant.
  Part 2 (ans: Jansenism [accept word forms]):
    The Old University of Leuven was a stronghold of this theological movement based heavily on the work of Saint Augustine of Hippo. Blaise Pascal defended this movement against the Jesuits in his Provincial Letters.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther):
    The Universities of Leuven and Cologne were among the first institutions to condemn this religious reformer, who criticized the Catholic Church's selling of indulgences in his Ninety-Five Theses.

[B23] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The mass social unrest of the year 1968 included many violent events connected to the civil rights movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: South Carolina [accept South Carolina State University]):
    In February 1968, students at one of this state's universities who were protesting a segregated bowling alley were fired on by police, leading to 30 casualties. A later massacre in this state was perpetrated by Dylann Roof.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King Jr. [or MLK]):
    In April 1968, this man was shot by James Earl Ray on the balcony of a hotel in Memphis, where he had traveled to lead the Poor People's Campaign.
  Part 3 (ans: Cleveland):
    In July 1968, this city witnessed the Glenville Shootout, a four-hour-long gun battle between its police and the Black Nationalists of New Libya. The incident was a mark on the administration of Carl Stokes, who had been elected the first black mayor of a major US city earlier that year.

[B24] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his book The Reformation of the Image, Joseph Koerner argues that this artwork's depiction of the Last Supper, which shows Jesus dining with a group of Germans, "negates sacred geography, revealing church as activity, not place." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wittenberg Altarpiece):
    Name this altarpiece, the bottom panel of which depicts the crucifixion occurring between a certain preacher and his audience.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [prompt on Cranach]):
    The Wittenberg Altarpiece was painted by this court painter to the Elders of Saxony, who depicted Frederick the Wise engaging in a stag hunt in another work.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther):
    Cranach's ("CRAH-nuck's") religious paintings were heavily influenced by the theology of this good friend of his. Cranach provided a number of woodcut illustrations for this man's German translation of the Bible.

[B25] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about 1968, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or MLK]):
    In April 1968, this civil rights leader was assassinated while at the Lorraine Motel in Memphis to support striking sanitation workers.
  Part 2 (ans: Catonsville Nine):
    In May 1968, this group including Daniel Berrigan stole files from a Maryland draft board and burned them in a parking lot with homemade napalm.
  Part 3 (ans: Apollo 8 [prompt on partial answer]):
    This 1968 NASA mission launched the first men to orbit the moon, one of whom took the Earthrise photograph. Its members read from the Book of Genesis in a famous Christmas Eve broadcast.

[B26] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This philosopher claimed that the ethic of "loyalty to loyalty" exists in so-called "genuine communities" that are real-life manifestations of the ideal "Beloved Community." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josiah Royce):
    Name this American idealist philosopher, who posited the existence of an "Absolute Knower" in books like The Problem of Christianity.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. [accept MLK]):
    Royce's ideas influenced this later American thinker, who argued that nonviolence would help to create the "beloved community" in his books Why We Can't Wait and Where Do We Go From Here: Chaos or Community?
  Part 3 (ans: love [accept word forms such as loving]):
    King also argued that the "beloved community" centered on the existence of agape, a spiritual form of this practice. This practice or feeling is often divided into the categories of agape, philia, and eros.

[B27] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many of this artist's paintings include his heraldic symbol of a bat-winged serpent. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [prompt on Cranach]):
    Identify this sixteenth-century court painter to the electors of Saxony. He made several paintings of Judith with the head of Holofernes, in which Judith wears a big red hat with feathers.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    Cranach's best known portrait is of this man, who was one of his personal friends. Some art historians have connected Cranach's interest in the Judith story with this theologian's ideological struggle against Charles V.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Jerome):
    Despite his Lutheran allegiance, Cranach accepted a commission to paint Cardinal Albert von Brandenburg as this figure. His composition was heavily derived from Durer's woodcut of this saint writing in his study, which features a tame lion in the foreground.

[B28] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This hymn is basically a paraphrase of Psalm 46. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God"):
    Give the English title or first line of this hymn, still sung today even though it was written in 1529. This hymn proclaims that the Lord is "a bulwark never failing" and is "our helper... amid the flood of mortal ills prevailing."
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" was written by this Protestant leader and author of the Ninety-five Theses.
  Part 3 (ans: Frances "Fanny" Crosby [or Frances Jane van Alstyne]):
    Despite her blindness, this woman wrote more than 8,000 hymns, including such standards as "Blessed Assurance" and "To God Be the Glory." Some hymnals gave her aliases rather than credit her so many times for songs.

[B29] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: While he was safely in Avignon, Pope Clement VI granted remission of sins to all who died of this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Black Death [or bubonic plague in Europe, etc.]):
    Name this event that interrupted the Hundred Years' War by killing about a third of Europe's population.
  Part 2 (ans: Saint Bridget of Sweden [or Birgitta Birgersdotter]):
    This woman decided that the height of the Black Death was the perfect time to make a pilgrimage to Rome; she survived, and lived out her life there. A later countrywoman, Queen Christina, said "I prefer to be counted among the sensible rather than the saints" and dismissed this woman's revelations.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This man also didn't think highly of Saint Bridget, and criticized teachings involving Bridget's "little prayers." This man wrote the treatise On the Jews and Their Lies.

[B30] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these people who were influenced by Erasmus's Greek version of the New Testament:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This man used Erasmus's text in his own translation of the Bible into German. A book by Erik Erikson claims that he challenged the Catholic Church because of his personal circumstances.
  Part 2 (ans: William Tyndale):
    Erasmus's Bible was also used by this man in his translation of the Bible into English, of which he completed the entire New Testament and half of the Old before his execution in 1536.

[B31] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's time in Ferrara, where he was possibly influenced by Savonarola's teachings, resulted in his Missa Hercules Dux Ferrariae. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josquindes Prez [accept either underlined portion]):
    Identify this most famous Franco-Flemish composer of the late 15th century who created the motet Ave Maria...virgo serena and the Missa pange lingua.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This contemporary of Josquin wrote extensively in praise of his music. A hymn written by this religious leader titled "A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" is quoted in Felix Mendelssohn's Reformation symphony.
  Part 3 (ans: Johannes Ockeghem):
    Josquin wrote a Deploration on the death of this other Franco-Flemish composer, whom Antoine Busnois' In Hydraulis salutes. This choirmaster of St. Martin de Tours composed the Missa prolationum.

[B32] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: An early English-language text advocating this position was A. J. P. Taylor's The Course of German History which argued that "the history of Germany is a history of extremes". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sonderweg school [or special path school]):
    Identify this school of historiography which holds that the rise of a Nazi-like state in Germany was all but inevitable. This school's name comes from the unusual road Germany took to get from monarchy to democracy.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    William L. Shirer's The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich traces a direct link between this German and Hitler, arguing that this theologian had a "ferocious [belief] in absolute political authority". That belief is supported by this man's tract, "Against the Murderous, Thieving Hordes of Peasants".
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Gay):
    Liberal Weimar culture, often blamed for giving rise to the Nazis by Sonderweg historians, was explored in a 1968 book by this historian. He also wrote The Enlightenment: An Interpretation and the 1988 biography, Freud: A Life for Our Time.

[B33] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: P. J. Ciampa claimed he needed this event like he need a hole in the head, and this event began after Echol Cole and Robert Walker were accidentally crushed to death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1968 Memphis Sanitation Strike (anything indicating a strike or walkout that occurred in Memphis in 1968 and/or a strike or walkout that occurred in Memphis among garbage or sanitation workers)):
    Name this event during which a group of predominantly African American workers walked off the job, much to the chagrin of Mayor Henry Loeb, a "white unity" advocate.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. (accept MLK)):
    This civil rights activist gave his "I've Been to the Mountaintop" speech to support the striking workers but was shot that night at the Lorraine motel.
  Part 3 (ans: Southern Christian Leadership Conference):
    After King's death, Ralph Abernathy assumed leadership of this organization. This non-militant organization helped plan the March on Washington and also ran the Birmingham Campaign and the Poor People's Campaign.

[B34] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man gave the first Day of Affirmation Speech while visiting the University of Cape Town. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: RFK [or Robert Francis Kennedy]):
    Name this politician who memorably gave an impromptu speech in Indianapolis after hearing of the murder of another man. This politician quoted Aeschylus and said "what we need in the United States is not violence or lawlessness, but love and wisdom."
  Part 2 (ans: MLK [or Martin Luther King Jr.]):
    Kennedy was reacting to the death of this civil rights leader, who gave the "I Have a Dream" speech in 1963.
  Part 3 (ans: California):
    Robert Kennedy himself was assassinated in the Ambassador Hotel in this state, where he had just won the 1968 Democratic primary before his death.

[B35] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Leadin: This location was where Paul Ciancia killed Gerardo Hernandez with a point-blank shot to the chest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Los Angeles International Airport [or LAX]):
    Name this facility, where a government employee was killed on November 1, 2013, by Ciancia, who apparently wanted to shoot "pigs."
  Part 2 (ans: Transportation Security Administration [or TSA]):
    Hernandez worked for this government agency, a part of the Homeland Security Department that conducts passenger screenings at airports.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther King Jr. [or MLK]):
    Current Homeland Security head Jeh Johnson controversially stated in 2011 that this man would have supported the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq because it reflected "the dangerous unselfishness" he promoted.

[B36] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about the PBS documentary Eyes on the Prize, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alan Lomax):
    The title of the documentary comes from the song "Keep Your Eyes on the Prize", which itself derives from the song "Gospel Plow". One of the earliest "Gospel Plow" recordings was captured by this ethnomusicologist who published 1960's The Folk Songs of North America in the English Language.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther King, Jr. [or Michael King, Jr.]):
    One section of Eyes on the Prize focusses on this man's Poor People's Campaign. This head of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference organized the Montgomery Bus Boycott.
  Part 3 (ans: Cleveland, Ohio):
    Another section of Eyes of the Prize chronicles the election of Carl Stokes as the first African-American mayor of this city. Standard Oil was founded in this city.

[B37] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter showed two men dressed as medieval knights hanging out with three naked ladies wearing necklaces in his version of The Judgment of Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder):
    Name this "swiftest of painters," who created portraits of contemporary German political figures such as Henry the Pious and Katharina von Mecklenburg.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Luther):
    Perhaps Cranach's most famous subject was this guy, also painted by Hans Holbein. This religious leader was almost always depicted in his floppy black hat.
  Part 3 (ans: Venus and Cupid):
    A lace collar and a nearly invisible draping are the only things worn by the title goddess of this Cranach painting, who has wavy red hair. On a pedestal to the left, it shows the much smaller other title character.

[B38] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The Edict of Worms forbade the defense of this man's writings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther):
    Name this Protestant reformer who nailed his Ninety-Five Theses to the door of a church in Wittenberg.
  Part 2 (ans: Augsburg):
    A Lutheran confession was presented to Charles V at one of a series of diets in this city. In 1555, a treaty was concluded in this city between Charles V and the Schmalkaldic League.
  Part 3 (ans: cuius regio, eius religio):
    The Peace of Augsburg established the principle that rulers in the Holy Roman Empire could dictate the religion of the region they ruled. The principle is given this four-word Latin name.

[B39] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: It was originally created after a series of sit-in protests in Greensboro North Carolina. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee ["Snick"]):
    Name this group whose leaders included Stokely Carmichael and Ella Baker.
  Part 2 (ans: Albany Movement):
    SNCC teamed up with the NAACP for this initiative, led by William Anderson, that urged the youth to push for desegregation in the namesake Georgia city.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Luther King Jr. [accept MLK]):
    The Albany Movement would later be supported by this pastor who was assassinated by James Earl Ray in Memphis in 1968.

[B40] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer these questions about anti-Semitism.
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This religious leader published On the Jews and Their Lies, urging their forced conversion or expulsion.
  Part 2 (ans: Protocols of the Elders of Zion):
    Traced back to a French satire against Jesuits of 1864, this forgery about a supposed Jewish plot to rule alone has been in circulation since 1903.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Ford):
    This US industrialist had 500,000 copies of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion printed in 1920. An all-round racist, he also inadvertently made Dearborn the American city with the highest Arab population because he preferred Lebanese and Syrian immigrants to blacks as factory workers.

[B41] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Name the following about the Ninety-Five Theses, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Luther):
    This German monk nailed the Ninety-Five Theses to the cathedral door in Wittenburg to protest the sale of indulgences.
  Part 2 (ans: grace [or gratia]):
    After penning the Ninety-Five Theses, Luther wrote A Sermon on Indulgences and this concept, one of the five "solas" of the reformation, which signifies the blessings that God gives regardless of merit.
  Part 3 (ans: Andreas [Rudolph Bodenstein von] Karlstadt [or Andreas Karolostadt]):
    This German reformer penned 151 theses a year before Luther, who joined this man in the Leipzig Debate against Johann Eck in 1519 and sheltered this man during the Peasants' War.
