# Latin American Literature
> The Latin American Boom and its magical-realist inheritors dominate this unit, anchored by Borges, Neruda, and García Márquez.
Jorge Luis Borges | Argentine master of labyrinthine, philosophical short fiction; wrote "The Garden of Forking Paths" and Ficciones.
Pablo Neruda | Chilean Nobel laureate poet of Twenty Love Poems and Canto General; wrote surrealist verse and political odes.
Brazil | Portuguese-speaking South American nation; home to Machado de Assis, Clarice Lispector, and Jorge Amado.
Argentina | Home to Borges, Cortazar, and the gaucho epic Martin Fierro; Buenos Aires-centered literary tradition.
Julio Cortazar | Argentine Boom author of Hopscotch and the story collections behind "Blow-Up"; masterful short fiction.
Mexico | Home to Octavio Paz, Juan Rulfo's Pedro Paramo, and Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz.
Octavio Paz | Mexican Nobel poet of The Labyrinth of Solitude and "Sunstone"; associated with Surrealism and Modernismo.
Isabel Allende | Chilean magical realist novelist of The House of the Spirits and Eva Luna; niece of Salvador Allende.
Gabriel Garcia Marquez | Colombian Nobel laureate of One Hundred Years of Solitude and Love in the Time of Cholera; father of magical realism.
Cuba | Home to Jose Marti's Modernismo and Nicolas Guillen's Afro-Cuban poetry.
Mario Vargas Llosa | Peruvian Nobel laureate of the Latin American Boom; wrote Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter and The Time of the Hero.
Gabriela Mistral | Chilean Nobel laureate poet, first Latin American to win; wrote Sonnets of Death; associated with Modernismo.
Ruben Dario | Nicaraguan founder of the Modernismo movement; wrote the poetry collection Azul....
Carlos Fuentes | Mexican Boom novelist of The Death of Artemio Cruz and Terra Nostra; wrote the historical novel The Old Gringo.
The House of the Spirits | Isabel Allende's magical realist multigenerational Chilean family saga, later a film.
Roberto Bolano | Chilean novelist of the posthumously published 2666 and The Savage Detectives; associated with Infrarealism.
Chile | Home to Neruda, Mistral, Bolano, and Isabel Allende.
Portuguese | Language of Brazilian literature, including Machado de Assis and Clarice Lispector.
Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz | 17th-century Mexican nun-poet of colonial New Spain; wrote "First Dream" and defended women's education.
One Hundred Years of Solitude | Gabriel Garcia Marquez's landmark magical realist saga of the Buendia family in Macondo.
Republic of Cuba | Full name of the Caribbean island nation home to Jose Marti and Nicolas Guillen.
Alejo Carpentier | Cuban novelist who coined "lo real maravilloso"; wrote The Kingdom of This World and Explosion in a Cathedral.
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter | Mario Vargas Llosa's semi-autobiographical novel of a young writer and a radio-serial scriptwriter, Pedro Camacho.
Clarice Lispector | Brazilian novelist of existentialist stream-of-consciousness prose; wrote The Hour of the Star and The Passion According to G.H.
Horacio Quiroga | Uruguayan short-story writer known for macabre tales like "The Feather Pillow," often compared to Poe.
Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis | Brazilian realist novelist of Dom Casmurro and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.
Jose Marti | Cuban independence hero and Modernismo poet; wrote the essay "Our America" and the poem behind "Guantanamera."
Love in the Time of Cholera | Garcia Marquez's novel of a decades-long unrequited love in a Colombian river town.
Federative Republic of Brazil | Full name of the nation home to Machado de Assis and Clarice Lispector.
Cesar Vallejo | Peruvian modernist poet known for avant-garde, anguished verse.
Chronicle of a Death Foretold | Garcia Marquez's novella reconstructing a small-town honor killing everyone knew was coming.
Republic of Chile | Full name of the nation home to Neruda, Mistral, and Bolano.
2666 | Roberto Bolano's sprawling posthumous novel centered on murders in a fictional Mexican border city.
Hopscotch | Julio Cortazar's experimental novel readable in multiple chapter orders; Boom-era masterpiece.
The Hour of the Star | Clarice Lispector's final novel about a poor, unremarkable typist named Macabea in Rio.
"Sunstone" | Octavio Paz's long circular poem structured on the Aztec calendar, meditating on time and love.
Dom Casmurro | Machado de Assis's Brazilian novel narrated by a jealous husband, Bentinho, suspicious of his wife Capitu.
Jorge Amado | Brazilian novelist of Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon and Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands.
Macondo | Fictional Colombian town in Garcia Marquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude, founded by Jose Arcadio Buendia.
The Kingdom of this World | Alejo Carpentier's novel of the Haitian Revolution, coining the concept of "lo real maravilloso."
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair | Pablo Neruda's early, highly popular collection of romantic and erotic Chilean poetry.
Uruguay | Home to Horacio Quiroga's macabre short fiction.
"The Garden of Forking Paths" | Borges story of a labyrinthine novel-within-a-story about branching, parallel time.
"Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius" | Borges story about a fictional encyclopedia entry that begins to overwrite reality.
El Senor Presidente | Miguel Angel Asturias's novel about a Latin American dictator, a founding work of the "dictator novel."
Eva Luna | Isabel Allende's magical realist novel about a Chilean storyteller narrating her own picaresque life.
Manuel Puig | Argentine novelist of Kiss of the Spider Woman, set among cellmates in a Latin American prison.
Miguel Angel Asturias | Guatemalan Nobel laureate of El Senor Presidente and Men of Maize.
Pedro Paramo | Juan Rulfo's Mexican novel in which a man discovers his father's town is populated by ghosts.
Peru | Home to Mario Vargas Llosa and Cesar Vallejo.
Spanish | Language of the Latin American Boom and much of Latin America's literary tradition.
"The Aleph" | Borges story about a point in space containing all other points, glimpsed in a Buenos Aires basement.
Adolfo Bioy Casares | Argentine writer and close friend/collaborator of Borges; wrote The Invention of Morel.
Carlos Fuentes Macias | Full name of the Mexican Boom novelist who wrote The Death of Artemio Cruz.
Death and the Maiden | Ariel Dorfman's play about a Chilean woman who believes her guest tortured her under the dictatorship.
gauchos | Argentine cowboy figures central to the epic poem Martin Fierro.
Juan Rulfo | Mexican novelist of Pedro Paramo, a foundational text for magical realism.
Like Water for Chocolate | Laura Esquivel's Mexican novel where a woman's cooking magically transmits her emotions.
Nicanor Parra | Chilean creator of "antipoetry," deflating poetic solemnity with colloquial irony.
The Death of Artemio Cruz | Carlos Fuentes's novel narrated by a dying tycoon reviewing his corruption after the Mexican Revolution.
the Old Gringo | Carlos Fuentes's novel imagining Ambrose Bierce's disappearance into revolutionary Mexico.
"The Library of Babel" = the Library of Babel | Borges story imagining the universe as an infinite library containing every possible book.
Machado de Assis | Brazilian realist of Dom Casmurro and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.
The Invention of Morel | Adolfo Bioy Casares's novella of a fugitive on an island haunted by holographic recordings.
"The Song of Despair" = "A Song of Despair" | Concluding poem of Neruda's Twenty Love Poems, lamenting a lost love from a harbor.
Artemio Cruz | Dying Mexican tycoon who reviews his corrupted revolutionary past in Fuentes's novel.
Benno von Archimboldi | Elusive German novelist sought by critics in Roberto Bolano's 2666.
Bras Cubas | Dead narrator of Machado de Assis's Posthumous Memoirs, dedicating the book to the worm that first gnawed him.
Buenos Aires | Argentine capital, literary home of Borges, Cortazar, and the Sur circle.
Elemental Odes | Pablo Neruda's collection praising ordinary things like socks, salt, and an onion.
Kiss of the Spider Woman | Manuel Puig's novel of cellmates Molina and Valentin, told largely through recounted films.
Martin Fierro | Jose Hernandez's Argentine epic poem of a persecuted gaucho outlaw.
Nicaragua | Home of Modernismo founder Ruben Dario and priest-poet Ernesto Cardenal.
Nicolas Guillen | Cuban national poet of Afro-Cuban rhythm-infused verse; leader of Negrismo.
Octavio Paz Lozano | Full name of the Mexican Nobel poet of The Labyrinth of Solitude.
Roberto Bolano Avalos | Full name of the Chilean author of 2666 and The Savage Detectives.
Sor Juana | Refers to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, 17th-century Mexican nun-poet of "First Dream."
The Feast of the Goat | Mario Vargas Llosa's novel of the Trujillo dictatorship and assassination in the Dominican Republic.
The Labyrinth of Solitude | Octavio Paz's essay collection analyzing Mexican identity, masks, and solitude.
The Savage Detectives | Roberto Bolano's novel tracking "visceral realist" poets Arturo Belano and Ulises Lima across decades.
The Time of the Hero | Vargas Llosa's debut novel of cadets and a cover-up at Lima's Leoncio Prado military academy.
Alfonsina Storni | Argentine feminist poet who drowned herself in the sea at Mar del Plata.
Allende | Refers to Isabel Allende, Chilean author of The House of the Spirits.
Ariel Dorfman | Chilean playwright of Death and the Maiden, confronting torture after dictatorship.
Augusto Monterroso | Guatemalan master of micro-fiction, including the one-sentence story "The Dinosaur."
Azul... | Ruben Dario's 1888 poetry-and-prose collection that launched Modernismo.
Colombia | Home of Gabriel Garcia Marquez and the fictional Macondo.
Colonel Aureliano Buendia | Buendia son who faces the firing squad in One Hundred Years of Solitude's famous opening; fought 32 wars.
Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands | Jorge Amado's Brazilian novel of a widow whose roguish first husband returns as a ghost.
Ernesto Cardenal | Nicaraguan priest-poet of liberation theology; wrote Zero Hour and founded Solentiname.
Julio | Refers to Julio Cortazar, Argentine author of Hopscotch.
Julio Florencio Cortazar | Full name of the Argentine Boom author of Hopscotch and "Blow-Up."
Laura Esquivel | Mexican author of Like Water for Chocolate, where Tita's cooking transmits her emotions.
Ocampo | Refers to Argentine sisters Silvina Ocampo, fantastical story writer, and Victoria, founder of Sur.
Pedro Camacho | Manic Bolivian radio-serial scriptwriter of Vargas Llosa's Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter.
Sonnets of Death | Gabriela Mistral's prize-winning sonnets mourning her lover Romelio Ureta's suicide.
The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas | Machado de Assis's novel narrated by a dead man, digressive and ironically self-aware.
"Blow-Up" | Cortazar story of a photographer who discovers hidden menace in an enlarged photo; filmed by Antonioni.
"Death and the Compass" | Borges detective story of Lonnrot lured by a kabbalistic pattern to the villa Triste-le-Roy.
"First Dream" = First Dream | Sor Juana's long philosophical poem of the soul's nighttime flight toward knowledge.
"Guantanamera" | Cuban song whose lyrics adapt Jose Marti's Versos Sencillos.
"House Taken Over" | Cortazar story of siblings gradually displaced from their home by an unseen presence.
"Our America" | Jose Marti's essay urging Latin America to forge its own identity apart from the United States.
"The Feather Pillow" | Horacio Quiroga horror story of a bride drained nightly by a parasite hidden in her pillow.
Betrayed by Rita Hayworth | Manuel Puig's novel about a boy's escapist obsession with Hollywood films in provincial Argentina.
Canto General | Pablo Neruda's epic poem cycle surveying the history and nature of Latin America.
Cesar Aira | Prolific Argentine experimental novelist known for short, surreal improvisational fiction.
Explosion in a Cathedral | Alejo Carpentier's novel about the French Revolution's reverberations in the Caribbean.
G.H. | Narrator of Clarice Lispector's The Passion According to G.H., unraveled after killing a cockroach.
Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon | Jorge Amado's Brazilian novel of a widowed bar owner's romance with a mixed-race cook, Gabriela.
Gregory Rabassa | American translator renowned for English versions of Garcia Marquez's and Cortazar's fiction.
Isabel Allende Llona | Full name of the Chilean magical realist novelist of The House of the Spirits.
Jose Julian Marti Perez | Full name of the Cuban independence hero and Modernismo poet Jose Marti.
Latin America | Region encompassing the Boom, magical realism, and Modernismo movements.
Mario Benedetti | Uruguayan writer known for the novel La Tregua and politically engaged poetry.
Melquiades | Gypsy sage who brings inventions and prophecy to Macondo in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
Men of Maize | Miguel Angel Asturias's novel blending Mayan myth with the exploitation of Guatemalan peasants.
Mexico City | Mexican capital and literary center for Paz, Fuentes, and Rulfo.
Mistral | Refers to Gabriela Mistral, Chilean Nobel laureate poet of Sonnets of Death.
Oriental Republic of Uruguay | Full name of the nation home to Horacio Quiroga's macabre short fiction.
Popol Vuh | K'iche' Maya creation epic featuring the Hero Twins Hunahpu and Xbalanque.
Quincas Borba | Machado de Assis novel named for the mad philosopher of "Humanitas"; follows heir Rubiao.
Rafael Trujillo | Dominican dictator depicted in Vargas Llosa's Feast of the Goat and Diaz's Oscar Wao.
Republic of Colombia | Full name of the nation home to Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
Romelio Ureta | Railway worker whose suicide inspired Gabriela Mistral's Sonnets of Death.
sur | Victoria Ocampo's influential Buenos Aires literary magazine, an early publisher of Borges.
Terra Nostra | Carlos Fuentes's vast novel refracting Spanish history through Philip II's Escorial.
The Alchemist | Paulo Coelho's Brazilian fable of the shepherd Santiago pursuing his Personal Legend to Egypt.
The Devil to Pay in the Backlands | Guimaraes Rosa's Brazilian sertao epic narrated by the bandit Riobaldo, haunted by a possible pact.
The Passion according to G.H. | Clarice Lispector's mystical monologue of a woman transformed after crushing a cockroach.
Three Trapped Tigers | Cabrera Infante's pun-drenched novel of pre-revolutionary Havana nightlife.
Vicente Huidobro | Chilean founder of Creacionismo; wrote the avant-garde long poem Altazor.

# African Literature
> Nigerian and South African writers lead a broad postcolonial African tradition spanning oral epic to apartheid-era fiction.
Wole Soyinka | Nigerian playwright and first African Nobel laureate in Literature; wrote Death and the King's Horseman and The Lion and the Jewel.
Chinua Achebe | Nigerian novelist of Things Fall Apart, No Longer at Ease, and Arrow of God; chronicled Igbo society under colonialism.
Ngugi wa Thiong'o | Kenyan novelist of Petals of Blood and Wizard of the Crow; later wrote in Gikuyu, e.g. I Will Marry When I Want.
Nadine Gordimer | South African Nobel laureate chronicling apartheid; wrote Burger's Daughter and July's People.
Nigeria | Home to Achebe, Soyinka, and Adichie; Igbo and Yoruba literary traditions and postcolonial fiction.
Athol Fugard | South African playwright of "Master Harold"...and the Boys and Blood Knot; worked with the Serpent Players.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie | Nigerian novelist of Purple Hibiscus, Half of a Yellow Sun, and Americanah; feminist and postcolonial themes.
South Africa | Home to Gordimer, Coetzee, and Fugard; apartheid-era literature is a defining theme.
Death and the King's Horseman | Wole Soyinka's tragedy of a Yoruba chief horseman prevented from ritual suicide by colonial officials.
The Lion and the Jewel | Wole Soyinka's comedy about a village belle courted by a modernizing schoolteacher and the traditional Bale.
Things Fall Apart | Chinua Achebe's novel of Okonkwo, an Igbo leader undone by colonialism and his own rigidity.
Cry, the Beloved Country | Alan Paton's novel of a Zulu priest searching for his son amid apartheid-era South Africa.
Afrikaans | Dutch-derived language of white South African literature, including some apartheid-era works.
Africa | Continent home to Nigerian, South African, Kenyan, and Egyptian literary traditions.
Ghana | West African nation with a literary tradition including Ama Ata Aidoo.
Ben Okri | Nigerian magical realist novelist of The Famished Road, narrated by the spirit-child Azaro.
Disgrace | J.M. Coetzee's Booker-winning novel of a disgraced professor and his daughter in post-apartheid South Africa.
Federal Republic of Nigeria | Full name of the nation home to Achebe, Soyinka, and Adichie.
griots | West African oral historian-poet-musicians who preserve epics like Sundiata.
John Maxwell Coetzee | Full name of the South African Nobel laureate who wrote Disgrace and Waiting for the Barbarians.
Senegal | West African nation home to Negritude poet Leopold Senghor and filmmaker-novelist Ousmane Sembene.
Doris Lessing | British-Zimbabwean Nobel laureate known for The Golden Notebook; wrote about colonial Africa and feminism.
J. M. Coetzee = J.M. Coetzee | South African Nobel laureate of Disgrace, Waiting for the Barbarians, and Elizabeth Costello.
July's People | Nadine Gordimer's novel imagining a white South African family fleeing a Black revolutionary uprising.
Kenya | Home to Ngugi wa Thiong'o; Gikuyu and English-language literary traditions.
Republic of Kenya | Full name of the nation home to Ngugi wa Thiong'o.
Zimbabwe | Home to novelists like NoViolet Bulawayo and Doris Lessing's colonial-era fiction.
Abdulrazak Gurnah | Tanzanian-British Nobel laureate known for novels of migration and colonialism, including Paradise.
Alan Paton | South African author of Cry, the Beloved Country, about a Zulu priest and apartheid-era injustice.
Blood Knot = The Blood Knot | Athol Fugard's play about two mixed-race South African half-brothers confronting apartheid's racial lines.
Nervous Conditions | Tsitsi Dangarembga's Zimbabwean novel about a girl's education and struggle against colonial and patriarchal norms.
Alain Mabanckou | Congolese novelist writing in French, known for satirical postcolonial fiction.
Americanah | Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's novel of a Nigerian woman's experience of race in America and her return home.
Buchi Emecheta | Nigerian novelist known for depicting women's struggles, including in The Joys of Motherhood.
Burger's Daughter | Nadine Gordimer's novel about the daughter of a white anti-apartheid activist in South Africa.
Christopher Okigbo | Nigerian modernist poet killed in the Nigerian Civil War; wrote Heavensgate.
Half of a Yellow Sun | Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's novel set during the Nigerian Civil War and the Biafran secession.
No Longer at Ease | Chinua Achebe's novel of Obi Okonkwo, an educated Nigerian undone by bribery in colonial Lagos.
Okonkwo | Proud Igbo wrestler-farmer protagonist of Things Fall Apart, who hangs himself as colonialism advances.
Sundiata Keita | Founder of the Mali Empire, hero of the griot-transmitted Epic of Sundiata.
A Dry White Season | Andre Brink's novel of a white South African teacher investigating a Black janitor's death in custody.
Algeria | North African nation, setting of Camus's The Stranger and home to Assia Djebar.
Amos Tutuola | Nigerian author of The Palm-Wine Drinkard, drawing on Yoruba folktales in idiosyncratic English.
Arrow of God | Chinua Achebe's novel of the priest Ezeulu caught between Igbo religion and colonial authority.
Elizabeth Costello | J.M. Coetzee's fictional Australian novelist, delivering lectures in her eponymous novel.
Ethiopia | East African empire whose Solomonic legend is told in the Kebra Nagast.
Republic of South Africa | Full name of the nation home to Gordimer, Coetzee, and Fugard.
Republic of Zimbabwe | Full name of the nation home to Tsitsi Dangarembga and NoViolet Bulawayo.
Akinwande Oluwole "Wole" Soyinka | Full name of the Nigerian Nobel playwright of Death and the King's Horseman.
Epic of Sundiata | Griot-transmitted Mande epic of the lion prince who founded the Mali Empire.
Leopold Sedar Senghor | Senegalese Negritude poet and first president of Senegal.
Leopold Senghor | Senegalese poet-president who co-founded Negritude with Aime Cesaire.
Mariama Ba | Senegalese novelist of So Long a Letter, a widow's letter on polygamy and women's lives.
Michael K | Gardener protagonist of Coetzee's Life & Times of Michael K, wandering war-torn South Africa.
Ngugi | Refers to Ngugi wa Thiong'o, Kenyan author of Petals of Blood and Wizard of the Crow.
Ousmane Sembene | Senegalese novelist-filmmaker of God's Bits of Wood, on the Dakar-Niger railway strike.
Petals of Blood | Ngugi wa Thiong'o's novel of four suspects and a fire, indicting neocolonial Kenya.
Republic of Ghana | Full name of the West African nation home to Ama Ata Aidoo.
Republic of Senegal | Full name of the nation of Senghor, Mariama Ba, and Ousmane Sembene.
swahili | East African lingua franca with its own epic verse tradition; Ngugi contrasted it with colonial English.
The Famished Road | Ben Okri's Booker-winning novel narrated by Azaro, a spirit-child in a Nigerian ghetto.
We Need New Names | NoViolet Bulawayo's novel of Darling's childhood in Zimbabwe and emigration to America.
Wizard of the Crow | Ngugi wa Thiong'o's satirical epic of the imaginary dictatorship of Aburiria.
"An Image of Africa" | Chinua Achebe's lecture-essay condemning the racism of Conrad's Heart of Darkness.
Ama Ata Aidoo | Ghanaian writer of Our Sister Killjoy and the play The Dilemma of a Ghost.
Andre Brink | Afrikaner novelist of A Dry White Season, opposing apartheid in both Afrikaans and English.
Breyten Breytenbach | Afrikaans poet imprisoned for anti-apartheid activity; wrote True Confessions of an Albino Terrorist.
Brother Jero | Charlatan beach prophet of Soyinka's comedy The Trials of Brother Jero.
Heinemann | Publisher whose African Writers Series, launched with Things Fall Apart, canonized African fiction.
I Will Marry When I Want | Ngugi's Gikuyu-language protest play whose staging led to his detention without trial.
Ken Saro-Wiwa | Nigerian Ogoni activist-author of Sozaboy, executed by the Abacha regime in 1995.
Master Harold...and the Boys = "Master Harold" ...and the Boys = "Master Harold"...and the Boys = Master Harold... and the Boys | Athol Fugard's play of the white teen Hally's cruelty toward servants Sam and Willie.
Mia Couto | Mozambican novelist of Sleepwalking Land, blending Portuguese with magical folk elements.
Nigerian Civil War | 1967-70 Biafran conflict backdropping Half of a Yellow Sun; killed poet Christopher Okigbo.
NoViolet Bulawayo | Zimbabwean novelist of We Need New Names and the Gukurahundi satire Glory.
Nuruddin Farah | Somali novelist of Maps and the Variations on the Theme of an African Dictatorship trilogy.
Waiting for the Barbarians | Coetzee's novel of a frontier Magistrate complicit in an unnamed Empire's cruelty.
Weep Not, Child | Ngugi's novel of the boy Njoroge's shattered hopes during Kenya's Mau Mau uprising.
A General Theory of Oblivion | Jose Eduardo Agualusa's novel of a woman who bricks herself into a Luanda apartment for decades.
A Grain of Wheat | Ngugi's novel of Mugo's hidden betrayal, set on the eve of Kenyan independence.
Ah, But Your Land is Beautiful | Bessie Head's novel-in-stories about apartheid-era Botswana and South Africa.
Bessie Head | South African-Botswanan novelist known for A Question of Power and When Rain Clouds Gather.
Cyprian Ekwensi | Nigerian novelist of People of the City and Jagua Nana, depicting urban Nigerian life.
Elesin Oba | The King's Horseman of Soyinka's play, whose ritual duty to die is interrupted by colonial officials.
Gikuyu | Kenyan language Ngugi wa Thiong'o adopted for his later fiction and plays.
Kebra Nagast | Ethiopian sacred text recounting the Solomonic dynasty's origin from Solomon and Sheba.
Lesley Nneka Arimah | Nigerian-American short-story writer known for What It Means When a Man Falls from the Sky.
Mali Empire | West African empire founded by Sundiata Keita, subject of the griot-preserved epic.
Mozambique | Southeast African nation home to novelist Mia Couto.
Nelson Mandela | South African anti-apartheid leader and president; subject of Long Walk to Freedom.
Obi Okonkwo | Grandson of Achebe's Okonkwo, protagonist of No Longer at Ease navigating corruption in colonial Nigeria.
palm wine | Drink central to Tutuola's Palm-Wine Drinkard, whose hero seeks his dead tapster in the spirit world.
Purple Hibiscus | Adichie's debut novel of Kambili's coming of age under a devout, abusive Nigerian father.
Serpent Players | Multiracial Port Elizabeth theater troupe Athol Fugard worked with under apartheid.
Sizwe Banzi is Dead | Fugard-Kani-Ntshona play of a man adopting a dead man's passbook to survive apartheid.
Sudan | Home of Tayeb Salih, author of Season of Migration to the North.
The Palm Wine Drinkard | Amos Tutuola's Yoruba-folklore novel of a drinker pursuing his dead palm-wine tapster.
Theophilus Msimangu | Johannesburg priest who guides Stephen Kumalo in Cry, the Beloved Country.
Uganda | East African nation of Okot p'Bitek, author of Song of Lawino.
Yoruba | Nigerian people and language whose mythology shapes Soyinka's and Tutuola's work.
Zakes Mda | South African novelist-playwright of Ways of Dying, featuring the professional mourner Toloki.

# Middle Eastern & Persian Literature
> Arabic, Persian, and Turkish traditions cluster around Mahfouz's Cairo, Sufi poets like Rumi, and Pamuk's Istanbul.
Naguib Mahfouz | Egyptian Nobel laureate known for the Cairo Trilogy; also wrote Children of Gebelawi and The Thief and the Dogs.
Orhan Pamuk | Turkish Nobel laureate of My Name is Red, Snow, and The Museum of Innocence; Istanbul-centered postmodernism.
Arabic | Language of Mahfouz, One Thousand and One Nights, and classical poetic forms.
Persian | Language of Rumi, Hafez, Omar Khayyam, and the Shahnameh epic.
Egypt | Home to Naguib Mahfouz and the Cairo-set Cairo Trilogy; Arabic literary center.
Rumi | 13th-century Persian Sufi mystic poet; wrote the Masnavi, the Spiritual Couplets.
Snow | Orhan Pamuk's novel set in the Turkish city of Kars, exploring political Islam and secularism.
Mahmoud Darwish | Palestinian national poet known for resistance poetry like "Identity Card."
Cairo | Egyptian capital and setting of Naguib Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy and Palace Walk.
My Name is Red | Orhan Pamuk's murder mystery set among Ottoman miniaturist painters in 16th-century Istanbul.
Shahnameh | Ferdowsi's Persian national epic, the "Book of Kings," chronicling Iran's mythical and historical rulers.
Persepolis | Marjane Satrapi's autobiographical graphic novel about growing up during the Iranian Revolution.
Iran | Home to Rumi, Ferdowsi, Hafez, and modern writers like Marjane Satrapi.
Lebanon | Home to Kahlil Gibran, author of The Prophet.
The Kite Runner | Khaled Hosseini's novel of a boy's guilt over betraying his friend Hassan in Afghanistan.
ghazals | Persian and Urdu lyric poetic form of rhyming couplets, perfected by Hafez and Ghalib.
Hebrew | Revived modern literary language of Israeli writers like Amos Oz and Yehuda Amichai.
Omar Khayyam | Persian polymath poet whose quatrains were rendered famous in English as The Rubaiyat.
Season of Migration to the North | Tayeb Salih's Sudanese novel of a man's disorienting return home after studying in England.
The Prophet = prophet | Kahlil Gibran's poetic prose collection of philosophical essays on love, work, and life.
Turkey | Home to Orhan Pamuk; Istanbul-centered modern literary tradition.
Israel | Home to modern Hebrew-language writers like Amos Oz and Yehuda Amichai.
The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam = Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam | Edward FitzGerald's famous English translation of Omar Khayyam's Persian quatrains.
Istanbul | Turkish city central to Orhan Pamuk's novels, including My Name is Red and The Museum of Innocence.
Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi | Full name of the 13th-century Persian Sufi poet who wrote the Masnavi.
Scheherazade | Storyteller of One Thousand and One Nights who delays her execution by telling tales nightly.
Jerusalem | City central to Hebrew and Israeli literature, including works by Amos Oz.
The Museum of Innocence | Orhan Pamuk's novel of Kemal's obsessive love for Fusun, memorialized in a real Istanbul museum.
"Identity Card" | Mahmoud Darwish's defiant resistance poem beginning "Write down: I am an Arab."
Amos Oz | Israeli novelist of A Tale of Love and Darkness; leading modern Hebrew writer and peace advocate.
Edward Said | Palestinian-American critic whose Orientalism founded postcolonial critique of Western views of the East.
Farsi | Modern name for Persian, language of Rumi, Hafez, and the Shahnameh.
Khaled Hosseini | Afghan-American novelist of The Kite Runner and A Thousand Splendid Suns.
Layla and Majnun | Nizami's Persian tragic romance of a poet driven mad by forbidden love.
One Thousand and One Nights | Arabic frame-tale collection in which Scheherazade tells stories to postpone her execution.
Palestinian | National identity central to the poetry of Mahmoud Darwish.
Yehuda Amichai | Leading modern Hebrew poet of everyday Jerusalem life and war's aftermath.
Children of Gebelawi | Naguib Mahfouz's banned allegorical novel retelling Abrahamic religious history in a Cairo alley.
ghazal | Persian-Urdu lyric form of rhyming couplets on love and loss, mastered by Hafez and Ghalib.
Hafez | 14th-century Persian lyric poet of Shiraz whose Divan perfected the ghazal.
masnavi | Persian rhyming-couplet form; capitalized, Rumi's vast Sufi poem of that name.
Spiritual Couplets | English name for Rumi's Masnavi, the vast Persian Sufi didactic poem.
Sufism | Islamic mystical tradition animating the poetry of Rumi, Hafez, and Attar.
The Rubaiyat | Omar Khayyam's Persian quatrains on wine and mortality, famed via FitzGerald's translation.
Arabian Nights | Alternate title of One Thousand and One Nights, Scheherazade's frame-tale collection.
Ferdowsi | Persian poet who spent decades composing the Shahnameh, Iran's national epic.
Marjane Satrapi | Iranian-French graphic memoirist of Persepolis, on growing up through the Iranian Revolution.
Palace Walk | First novel of Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy, on the tyrannical patriarch al-Sayyid Ahmad's family.
Syria | Home of the modernist Arabic poet Adonis.
Tawfiq Al-Hakim | Egyptian pioneer of Arabic drama; wrote The People of the Cave.
Adonis | Pen name of Ali Ahmad Said, Syrian modernist poet who transformed Arabic verse.
Adunis | Alternate spelling of Adonis, the Syrian modernist Arabic poet.
Afghanistan | Setting of Khaled Hosseini's The Kite Runner and A Thousand Splendid Suns.
Arab Republic of Egypt | Full name of the nation home to Naguib Mahfouz.
Azar Nafisi | Iranian-American memoirist of Reading Lolita in Tehran, about a secret women's literature class.
Beirut | Lebanese capital, literary center of the Arabic-language Levant.
Gulistan | Sa'di's Persian prose-and-verse work of moral anecdotes, the "Rose Garden."
Kabul | Afghan capital, central setting of Khaled Hosseini's The Kite Runner.
Kahlil Gibran | Lebanese-American poet of The Prophet, blending mysticism and philosophical prose poetry.
Khalil Gibran | Alternate spelling of Kahlil Gibran, Lebanese-American poet of The Prophet.
Modern Hebrew | Revived literary language of Israeli writers like Amos Oz and Yehuda Amichai.
Nizami Ganjavi | Persian poet who wrote the tragic romance Layla and Majnun.
Ottoman Empire | Turkish imperial backdrop for Pamuk's My Name is Red and Ottoman miniaturist culture.
Sa'di | Persian poet of Shiraz who wrote the Gulistan and Bustan, blending moral tales with verse.
Simurgh | Mythical Persian bird sought by the pilgrims of Attar's Conference of the Birds.
State of Israel | Full name of the nation home to Amos Oz and Yehuda Amichai.
Tahar Ben Jelloun | Moroccan Francophone novelist of The Sand Child and its Goncourt-winning sequel The Sacred Night.
Tehran | Iranian capital of Nafisi's Reading Lolita in Tehran and Persepolis's setting.
The Blind Owl | Sadegh Hedayat's surreal, opium-hazed Iranian novel of a pen-case painter's obsessions.
The Conference of the Birds | Attar's Sufi allegory of birds crossing seven valleys to find the Simurgh -- themselves.
The Thief and the Dogs | Mahfouz's noir novel of Said Mahran's doomed revenge after release from prison.
Turkish | Language of Orhan Pamuk and modern Turkey's literature.

# South & Southeast Asian Literature
> Indian writers in English and Bengali, alongside classical Sanskrit drama and Filipino and Indonesian fiction, run from Kalidasa to Rushdie.
Rabindranath Tagore | Bengali polymath, first non-European Nobel laureate in Literature; wrote Gitanjali and The Home and the World.
The God of Small Things | Arundhati Roy's Booker Prize novel of forbidden love and twins in Kerala, India.
Salman Rushdie | Indian-British magical realist of Midnight's Children and The Satanic Verses.
Gitanjali | Rabindranath Tagore's "Song Offerings" poetry collection that won him the 1913 Nobel Prize.
Kalidasa | Classical Sanskrit poet-dramatist; wrote The Recognition of Shakuntala and other court dramas.
Bengali | Language of Tagore's Gitanjali and The Home and the World; major literature of eastern India and Bangladesh.
Vikram Seth | Indian novelist of A Suitable Boy and the verse novel The Golden Gate; New Formalist poet.
Sanskrit | Classical Indian literary language of Kalidasa's dramas and the epics Ramayana and Mahabharata.
Jhumpa Lahiri | Indian-American author of Interpreter of Maladies and "Sexy"; explores Bengali immigrant experience.
Midnight's Children | Salman Rushdie's Booker of Bookers-winning novel of Saleem Sinai, born at India's independence.
India | Home to Tagore, Rushdie, Roy, and Seth; Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, and English-language traditions.
Arundhati Roy | Indian novelist of The God of Small Things; Booker Prize winner.
The Satanic Verses | Salman Rushdie's controversial novel that provoked a fatwa from Ayatollah Khomeini.
Jose Rizal | Filipino nationalist novelist of Noli Me Tangere, whose execution helped spark the Philippine Revolution.
Tamil | Classical Dravidian language literary tradition of South India and Sri Lanka.
The White Tiger | Aravind Adiga's Booker-winning novel narrated by a servant-turned-entrepreneur in India.
R. K. Narayan | Indian novelist known for the fictional South Indian town of Malgudi.
A Suitable Boy | Vikram Seth's sprawling novel of a mother seeking a husband for her daughter in post-independence India.
Mohsin Hamid | Pakistani novelist of The Reluctant Fundamentalist and Exit West.
Saleem Sinai | Telepathic protagonist of Rushdie's Midnight's Children, born at the exact moment of India's independence.
Indonesia | Southeast Asian nation home to novelist Pramoedya Ananta Toer.
Malgudi | R.K. Narayan's fictional South Indian town, setting for many of his novels.
The Golden Gate | Vikram Seth's verse novel in Onegin stanzas about San Francisco yuppies.
Desai | Refers to Indian novelists Anita Desai and her daughter Kiran Desai of The Inheritance of Loss.
Ramayana | Sanskrit epic attributed to Valmiki, of Rama's quest to rescue Sita from Ravana.
Republic of India | Full name of the nation home to Tagore, Rushdie, and Roy.
Rohinton Mistry | Indian-Canadian Parsi novelist of A Fine Balance, set during the Emergency.
Sri Lanka | Island nation home to Michael Ondaatje and Shehan Karunatilaka.
The Inheritance of Loss | Kiran Desai's Booker-winning novel of a judge and his granddaughter in the Himalayan foothills.
A Fine Balance | Rohinton Mistry's novel of four lives intertwined in an Indian city during the 1975 Emergency.
Amitav Ghosh | Indian novelist of the Ibis trilogy beginning with Sea of Poppies, set around the Opium Wars.
Bharati Mukherjee | Indian-American novelist of Jasmine, about an immigrant woman's serial reinventions.
Kiran Desai | Indian novelist of the Booker-winning The Inheritance of Loss; daughter of Anita Desai.
Nectar in a Sieve | Kamala Markandaya's novel of the peasant woman Rukmani enduring rural Indian hardship.
Pramoedya Ananta Toer | Indonesian novelist of the Buru Quartet, beginning with This Earth of Mankind, written in prison.
Red Oleanders | Rabindranath Tagore's play of Nandini defying a gold-mining king's exploitative city.
Rudyard Kipling | English writer of Kim and The Jungle Book, set in British India; Nobel laureate.
The Home and the World | Tagore's novel of Bimala torn between her husband Nikhil and the radical nationalist Sandip.
The Post Office | Tagore's play of the dying boy Amal awaiting a letter from the king.
Urdu | South Asian language of Ghalib's ghazals and Manto's Partition stories.
Anita Desai | Indian novelist of Clear Light of Day and In Custody; mother of Kiran Desai.
Aravind Adiga | Indian novelist whose The White Tiger, narrated by driver Balram, won the Booker.
Interpreter of Maladies = "Interpreter of Maladies" | Jhumpa Lahiri's Pulitzer-winning story collection on Indian and Indian-American lives.
Mahabharata | Vast Sanskrit epic of the Kurukshetra war between Pandavas and Kauravas; contains the Bhagavad Gita.
Noli Me Tangere | Jose Rizal's anti-colonial novel of Crisostomo Ibarra, which helped ignite Philippine nationalism.
Republic of Indonesia | Full name of the nation home to Pramoedya Ananta Toer.
Roy | Refers to Arundhati Roy, Indian author of The God of Small Things.
The Recognition of Shakuntala | Kalidasa's Sanskrit drama of a king who forgets his bride until a lost ring restores memory.
Valmiki | Legendary Sanskrit "first poet," traditional author of the Ramayana.
Vietnam | Southeast Asian nation of the verse classic The Tale of Kieu and Bao Ninh's war fiction.
"Sexy" | Jhumpa Lahiri story of Miranda's affair with a married Bengali man.
a signet ring | Token by which King Dushyanta finally recognizes Shakuntala in Kalidasa's drama.
Agha Shahid Ali | Kashmiri-American poet who championed the ghazal in English; wrote The Country Without a Post Office.
An Equal Music | Vikram Seth's novel about a violinist reuniting with a lost love in the classical music world.
Crisostomo Ibarra | Idealistic reformist protagonist of Jose Rizal's Noli Me Tangere.
Dushyanta | King who forgets, then remembers, his beloved in Kalidasa's Shakuntala.
Indira Gandhi | Indian prime minister whose Emergency-era rule backdrops Rohinton Mistry's fiction.
Islamic Republic of Pakistan | Full name of the South Asian nation home to novelists like Mohsin Hamid.
jasmine | Refers to Bharati Mukherjee's novel Jasmine, about an Indian immigrant's reinvention in America.
Kazi Nazrul Islam | Bengali "rebel poet" known for revolutionary and anti-colonial verse.
Maali Almeida | Ghost photographer protagonist of Shehan Karunatilaka's The Seven Moons of Maali Almeida.
Mirabai | 16th-century Hindu mystic poet devoted to Krishna, celebrated in bhakti poetry.
Mirza Ghalib | Preeminent Urdu and Persian ghazal poet of Mughal-era India.
Mr. Biswas | Struggling Trinidadian Indian protagonist of Naipaul's A House for Mr Biswas.
Mukherjee | Refers to Bharati Mukherjee, Indian-American novelist known for Jasmine.
Pakistan | South Asian nation home to novelists like Mohsin Hamid.
Rama | Hero of the Ramayana, avatar of Vishnu who rescues his wife Sita from Ravana.
Saadat Hasan Manto | Urdu master of Partition stories, including the asylum tale "Toba Tek Singh."
Shakuntala | Heroine of Kalidasa's drama, forgotten by King Dushyanta until a ring restores his memory.
Sir Ahmed Salman Rushdie | Full name of the author of Midnight's Children and The Satanic Verses.
The Little Clay Cart | Sanskrit drama attributed to Shudraka, of the poor merchant Charudatta and courtesan Vasantasena.
The Moor's Last Sigh | Rushdie's novel of Moraes Zogoiby and a Bombay spice-trading family's decline.
The Philippines | Island nation of Jose Rizal, whose novels helped spark its revolution against Spain.

# East Asian Literature
> Chinese, Japanese, and Korean traditions range from classical Tang poetry and the Four Great Classical Novels to Kawabata and Murakami.
Yukio Mishima | Japanese novelist of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy; died by ritual suicide.
Ryunosuke Akutagawa | Japanese short-story writer of "Rashomon" and "In a Grove," source for Kurosawa's film; died by suicide young.
Yasunari Kawabata | Japanese Nobel laureate of Snow Country, Thousand Cranes, and The Sound of the Mountain; New Sensationalism.
Haruki Murakami | Japanese postmodernist of Norwegian Wood, Kafka on the Shore, and 1Q84; magical realist elements.
Li Bai | Tang dynasty Chinese poet known for romantic, often drunken verse; frequently paired with rival Du Fu.
Matsuo Basho | Edo-period Japanese haiku master; wrote the travel account The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
Japan | Home to Murakami, Kawabata, Mishima, and classical Heian court literature.
Lu Xun | Founder of modern Chinese vernacular fiction; wrote "The True Story of Ah Q" during the May Fourth Movement.
China | Home to classical Tang poetry, the Four Great Classical Novels, and modern writers like Lu Xun and Mo Yan.
Water Margin | One of China's Four Great Classical Novels; bandit-heroes of Liangshan Marsh rebel against corrupt officials.
Dream of the Red Chamber | Qing-dynasty Chinese novel and one of the Four Great Classical Novels; centers on Jia Baoyu and the Jia family's decline.
Kobo Abe | Japanese surrealist/absurdist novelist known for existential fables about isolation.
Chikamatsu Monzaemon | Edo-period Japanese playwright of bunraku puppet and kabuki plays; wrote the Love Suicides dramas.
Du Fu | Tang dynasty Chinese poet known for socially engaged, historically grounded verse; often paired with Li Bai.
Journey to the West | Ming-dynasty Chinese novel of the monkey king Sun Wukong escorting a monk to retrieve Buddhist scriptures.
Natsume Soseki | Meiji-era Japanese novelist of Kokoro and I Am a Cat; central figure of modern Japanese literature.
Jun'ichiro Tanizaki | Japanese novelist of The Makioka Sisters and Some Prefer Nettles; wrote the essay In Praise of Shadows.
Kenzaburo Oe | Japanese Nobel laureate of A Personal Matter and Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids; wrote about his disabled son.
Mo Yan | Chinese Nobel laureate known for Red Sorghum; blends folk tales with historical narrative.
Romance of the Three Kingdoms | Ming-dynasty Chinese historical novel of warlords Cao Cao, Liu Bei, and the fall of the Han.
South Korea | Home to modern Korean writers including Han Kang.
The Pillow Book | Sei Shonagon's Heian-era Japanese collection of lists and observations from court life; a zuihitsu.
Chinese | Language of the Four Great Classical Novels and Tang dynasty poetry.
haiku | Japanese short poetic form perfected by Matsuo Basho and Kobayashi Issa.
bunraku | Japanese puppet theater associated with playwright Chikamatsu Monzaemon.
Noh | Classical masked Japanese musical drama form, associated with playwright Zeami Motokiyo.
People's Republic of China | Full name of the nation home to Lu Xun, Mo Yan, and the Four Great Classical Novels.
The Vegetarian | Han Kang's Booker International-winning Korean novel of a woman who stops eating meat.
Gao Xingjian | Chinese-French Nobel laureate of Soul Mountain and the absurdist play The Bus Stop.
puppets | Recurring motif tied to Japanese bunraku theater and Chikamatsu's plays.
The Tale of Genji | Murasaki Shikibu's Heian-era Japanese novel about the courtier Hikaru Genji; often called the first novel.
1Q84 | Haruki Murakami's novel of parallel Tokyo realities with two moons, following Aomame and Tengo.
Japanese | Language of Murakami, Kawabata, and classical court literature like The Tale of Genji.
Kafka on the Shore | Haruki Murakami's novel intertwining a runaway teen and an old man who talks to cats.
Sun Wukong | The trickster Monkey King of Journey to the West, escorting a monk to retrieve Buddhist scriptures.
A Personal Matter | Kenzaburo Oe's autobiographical novel about a father grappling with his brain-damaged newborn son.
Korean | Language of modern Korean writers including Han Kang.
Mao Zedong | Chinese Communist leader whose Cultural Revolution shaped much 20th-century Chinese literature.
Norwegian Wood | Haruki Murakami's coming-of-age novel of Toru Watanabe's romantic entanglements in 1960s Tokyo.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North | Matsuo Basho's haibun travel account of a journey through northern Japan.
zuihitsu | Japanese literary genre of loosely connected essays and observations, exemplified by Sei Shonagon's Pillow Book.
"Rashomon" | Ryunosuke Akutagawa's short story of conflicting accounts at a ruined gate, basis for Kurosawa's film.
Han Kang | South Korean novelist of The Vegetarian; won the International Booker Prize and later the Nobel.
Junichiro Tanizaki | Japanese novelist of The Makioka Sisters and Some Prefer Nettles.
Soul Mountain | Gao Xingjian's autobiographical novel of a journey through rural China after a false cancer diagnosis.
Tang dynasty | Golden age of Chinese poetry, era of Li Bai, Du Fu, and Wang Wei.
The Silent Cry | Kenzaburo Oe's novel of two brothers returning to their Shikoku village and its violent history.
The Three-Body Problem | Liu Cixin's Chinese science-fiction novel of first contact with the alien Trisolarans; Hugo winner.
Ah Q | Lu Xun's deluded everyman who reframes every humiliation as a "spiritual victory."
Cao Cao | Cunning Han warlord antagonist of Romance of the Three Kingdoms.
Cultural Revolution | Mao-era upheaval backdropping much modern Chinese fiction, including works by Yu Hua and Dai Sijie.
Li Po | Alternate romanization of Li Bai, Tang dynasty poet of wine and moonlight.
Some Prefer Nettles | Jun'ichiro Tanizaki's novel of a failing marriage torn between Western modernity and Japanese tradition.
The Makioka Sisters | Tanizaki's novel of four Osaka sisters seeking a husband for shy Yukiko in prewar Japan.
Wang Wei | Tang dynasty poet-painter known for serene Buddhist nature poetry.
Yu Hua | Chinese novelist of To Live and Chronicle of a Blood Merchant, chronicling Mao-era suffering.
"In a Grove" | Akutagawa story of a samurai's death told in contradictory testimonies; basis of Kurosawa's Rashomon.
classical Chinese | Literary language of Tang poetry and the Confucian classics.
Ha Jin | Chinese-American novelist of Waiting, about a doctor's eighteen-year wait to divorce and remarry.
Hikaru Genji | The "Shining Prince," amorous courtier hero of Murasaki Shikibu's Tale of Genji.
kabuki | Stylized Japanese popular theater form, adapting Chikamatsu's plays alongside bunraku.
Kazuo Ishiguro | Japanese-born British Nobel laureate of The Remains of the Day and Never Let Me Go.
Lady Murasaki | Heian court lady author of The Tale of Genji; also names a character in the novel.
Snow Country | Kawabata's novel of Tokyo dilettante Shimamura's affair with the geisha Komako in a hot-spring town.
The Plum in the Golden Vase | Ming-dynasty erotic novel Jin Ping Mei, chronicling the merchant Ximen Qing's household.
The Sound of the Mountain | Kawabata's novel of the aging Shingo, haunted by death and drawn to his daughter-in-law.
The Temple of the Golden Pavilion | Mishima's novel of a stuttering acolyte who burns down Kyoto's Kinkaku-ji temple.
"Cogwheels" | Late autobiographical Akutagawa story of hallucinated spinning gears presaging his suicide.
"The River Merchant's Wife: A Letter" | Ezra Pound's Cathay adaptation of a Li Bai poem in a young wife's voice.
Edogawa Ranpo | Japanese mystery pioneer whose pen name puns on Edgar Allan Poe; created detective Akechi.
Eileen Chang | Shanghai-born writer of Love in a Fallen City and Lust, Caution.
fu | Han-dynasty Chinese "rhapsody" form blending prose and verse in ornate description.
haibun | Japanese form mixing prose and haiku, used by Basho in The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
Jia Baoyu | Pampered heir born with a jade in his mouth, protagonist of Dream of the Red Chamber.
Kobayashi Issa | Haiku master known for tender, humorous poems about small creatures like snails and flies.
Mori Ogai | Meiji-era Japanese writer-surgeon of The Wild Geese and "The Dancing Girl."
Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids | Kenzaburo Oe's debut novel of reformatory boys abandoned in a plague-stricken village.
No Longer Human | Osamu Dazai's novel of Yozo's masked alienation, declaring himself "disqualified as a human being."
Red Sorghum | Mo Yan's Shandong family saga of bandits, distillers, and resistance against Japanese invasion.
renga | Japanese collaborative linked-verse form whose opening stanza evolved into the haiku.
samurai | Japanese warrior class recurring across Akutagawa's stories and Edo-period drama.
Silence | Shusaku Endo's novel of a Jesuit priest facing apostasy during Japan's persecution of Christians.
Song dynasty | Chinese dynasty of ci lyric poetry, including the poet Li Qingzhao.
Spring Snow | First novel of Mishima's Sea of Fertility, on Kiyoaki's doomed love for Satoko.
tanka | Classical 31-syllable Japanese court verse form, ancestor of the haiku.
The Bus Stop | Gao Xingjian's absurdist play of passengers waiting years for a bus that never stops.
The Sea of Fertility | Mishima's final tetralogy tracing apparent reincarnations observed by Shigekuni Honda.
The True Story of Ah Q | Lu Xun's novella satirizing self-deceiving "spiritual victories" in pre-revolutionary China.
The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle | Murakami's novel of Toru Okada searching for his wife, descending into a dry well.
Thousand Cranes | Kawabata's novel entangling tea-ceremony aesthetics with Kikuji's affairs.
waka | Classical Japanese court poetry, the 31-syllable form central to Heian literature.
"Hell Screen" | Akutagawa story of the painter Yoshihide, whose daughter burns in the carriage he must depict.
a frog | Creature that leaps into an old pond in Matsuo Basho's most famous haiku.
Beijing | Chinese capital, setting and backdrop for much modern Chinese literature.
Chinese opera | Traditional Chinese musical theater form incorporating stylized drama and song.
Confessions of a Mask | Yukio Mishima's autobiographical novel about a young man's closeted homosexuality in wartime Japan.
Hikari Oe | Disabled composer son of Kenzaburo Oe, inspiration for A Personal Matter.
I Am a Cat | Natsume Soseki's satirical novel narrated by a nameless cat observing Meiji-era Japanese society.
Ihara Saikaku | Edo-period Japanese writer known for tales of the pleasure quarters and merchant life.
In Praise of Shadows | Jun'ichiro Tanizaki's essay celebrating traditional Japanese aesthetics of shadow and subtlety.
Kawabata Yasunari | Name-order variant of Yasunari Kawabata, Japanese Nobel laureate of Snow Country and Thousand Cranes.
Ko Un | Korean poet known for vast output, including the multi-volume Maninbo cycle.
Kokoro | Natsume Soseki's novel about a young man's friendship with an enigmatic, guilt-haunted "Sensei."
Lady Aoi | Character possessed by a jealous spirit in a Noh play adapted from The Tale of Genji.
Lady Murasaki Shikibu | Full honorific name of the Heian-era author of The Tale of Genji.
love suicides | Recurring motif of Chikamatsu's bunraku/kabuki plays, as in The Love Suicides at Sonezaki.
Luo Guanzhong | Attributed author of the Chinese classical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms.
Murakami | Refers to Haruki Murakami, Japanese postmodernist novelist of Norwegian Wood and 1Q84.
Murasaki Shikibu | Heian-era Japanese court lady credited with writing The Tale of Genji.
Noh Theater | Classical masked Japanese musical drama form, associated with playwright Zeami Motokiyo.
Osamu Dazai | Japanese novelist of No Longer Human, chronicling a man's alienation and self-destruction.
Pachinko | Min Jin Lee's novel following a Korean family's generations in Japan amid discrimination.
Sei Shonagon | Heian court lady whose Pillow Book collects lists and observations; rival of Murasaki Shikibu.
Shigekuni Honda | Rationalist observer who tracks his friend's reincarnations across Mishima's Sea of Fertility.
Shusaku Endo | Japanese Catholic novelist of Silence, on Jesuit persecution in 17th-century Japan.
The Classic of Poetry | The Shijing, oldest Chinese poetry anthology, traditionally compiled by Confucius.
The Love Suicides at Amijima | Chikamatsu bunraku tragedy of paper merchant Jihei and the courtesan Koharu.
The Love Suicides at Sonezaki | Chikamatsu puppet play of Tokubei and Ohatsu's double suicide in a forest shrine.
The Scholars | Wu Jingzi's Qing-dynasty satire of the imperial examination system and its strivers.
Yoko Ogawa | Japanese novelist of The Housekeeper and the Professor and The Memory Police.
zaju | Yuan-dynasty Chinese four-act variety drama form, as in The Orphan of Zhao's era.
Zeami Motokiyo | Master playwright-theorist who codified Noh drama and its aesthetic of yugen.

# Caribbean Literature
> Anglophone and Francophone island writers -- Walcott, Naipaul, Cesaire -- explore colonialism, creolization, and diaspora.
Derek Walcott | Saint Lucian Nobel poet of the epic Omeros; also wrote Dream on Monkey Mountain and "A Far Cry from Africa."
V. S. Naipaul = V.S. Naipaul | Trinidadian-British Nobel laureate of A House for Mr Biswas, A Bend in the River, and Miguel Street.
Aime Cesaire | Martinican poet and co-founder of Negritude; wrote the anti-colonial Notebook of a Return to My Native Land.
Omeros | Derek Walcott's Homeric epic poem retelling the Iliad and Odyssey through Saint Lucian fishermen.
Jamaica | Caribbean island home to writers exploring creolization and colonial legacy.
A Bend in the River | V.S. Naipaul's novel of a shopkeeper in a newly independent, decaying Central African nation.
Junot Diaz | Dominican-American novelist of The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, narrated by Yunior.
Jamaica Kincaid | Antiguan-American writer of Annie John and Lucy; explores mother-daughter conflict and colonialism.
The Tempest | Aime Cesaire's postcolonial rewriting of Shakespeare's play, recasting Caliban as an anti-colonial rebel.
Derek Alton Walcott | Full name of the Saint Lucian Nobel poet who wrote Omeros.
Kamau Brathwaite | Barbadian poet known for developing "nation language" poetics rooted in Caribbean speech.
Wide Sargasso Sea | Jean Rhys's prequel to Jane Eyre, giving the Creole "madwoman" Antoinette Cosway her own story.
Barbados | Island home of poet Kamau Brathwaite and novelist George Lamming.
Dream on Monkey Mountain | Derek Walcott's play about the charcoal burner Makak's visionary dream of returning to Africa.
Edwidge Danticat | Haitian-American author of Breath, Eyes, Memory and Krik? Krak!
Giannina Braschi | Puerto Rican writer known for Spanglish and experimental works like Yo-Yo Boing! and United States of Banana.
Vidiadhar Surajprasad Naipaul | Full name of V.S. Naipaul, Trinidadian-British Nobel laureate of A House for Mr Biswas.
"Sea Grapes" | Derek Walcott poem weighing Odysseus's homecoming against ordinary Caribbean life.
Derek | Refers to Derek Walcott, Saint Lucian Nobel poet of Omeros.
Dominican Republic | Caribbean nation under Trujillo, setting of Oscar Wao and The Feast of the Goat.
George Lamming | Barbadian novelist of In the Castle of My Skin, on colonial childhood.
Haiti | Nation of the revolution depicted in Carpentier's Kingdom of This World; home of Danticat.
In a Free State | V.S. Naipaul's Booker-winning work of linked narratives about displacement, centered in an African state.
Marlon James | Jamaican novelist whose A Brief History of Seven Killings won the Booker Prize.
Mohun Biswas | Naipaul's Trinidadian protagonist whose lifelong quest is a house of his own.
"A Far Cry from Africa" | Derek Walcott poem on the Mau Mau uprising and being "divided to the vein" between loyalties.
Braithwaite | Spelling variant of Kamau Brathwaite, Barbadian poet of nation language.
Lucy | Jamaica Kincaid's novel of a young Antiguan au pair's cold-eyed view of her American employers.
Miguel Street | V.S. Naipaul's linked stories of eccentric residents on a Port of Spain street.
Puerto Rico | Caribbean island home to writers like Giannina Braschi.
Republic of Haiti | Full name of the nation whose revolution Carpentier depicted in The Kingdom of This World.
The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao | Junot Diaz's Pulitzer novel of a Dominican nerd and his family's fuku curse under Trujillo.
Breath, Eyes, Memory | Edwidge Danticat's novel of a Haitian girl reunited with her mother in New York.
C.L.R. James | Trinidadian writer and historian of The Black Jacobins, on the Haitian Revolution.
Caliban | Enslaved figure of Shakespeare's Tempest, recast as an anti-colonial rebel in Cesaire's version.
Cesaire | Refers to Aime Cesaire, Martinican poet and co-founder of Negritude.
Maryse Conde | Guadeloupean novelist of Segu and I, Tituba, Black Witch of Salem.
the Caribbean | Region of Walcott, Naipaul, and creolized literary traditions.
Trinidad | Home island of V.S. Naipaul and C.L.R. James.
Trinidad and Tobago | Twin-island nation home to V.S. Naipaul and C.L.R. James.
Yunior de Las Casas | Junot Diaz's recurring Dominican-American narrator, teller of Oscar Wao's story.

# Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand
> A smaller but distinct Anglophone Commonwealth tradition, from Mansfield and White to Atwood, Munro, and Peter Carey.
Australia | Home to Patrick White, Peter Carey, and bush-ballad poets like Banjo Paterson.
New Zealand | Home to Katherine Mansfield and the Booker-winning The Bone People.
Canada | Home to Margaret Atwood, Alice Munro, and Michael Ondaatje.
Katherine Mansfield | New Zealand modernist short-story writer; wrote "Bliss" and "The Garden Party."
Margaret Atwood | Canadian novelist of The Handmaid's Tale and Oryx and Crake; dystopian and feminist themes.
Peter Carey | Australian novelist of Oscar and Lucinda; two-time Booker Prize winner.
Alice Munro | Canadian Nobel laureate short-story writer; wrote "Dance of the Happy Shades"; Southern Ontario Gothic.
Commonwealth of Australia | Full name of the nation home to Patrick White and Peter Carey.
The English Patient | Michael Ondaatje's Booker-winning novel of a burned patient and companions in an Italian villa during WWII.
"The Garden Party" | Katherine Mansfield short story contrasting a wealthy family's party with a neighbor's death.
white | Refers to Patrick White, Australian Nobel laureate novelist of Voss.
Michael Ondaatje | Sri Lankan-Canadian novelist of The English Patient; also wrote the memoir Running in the Family.
Patrick White | Australian Nobel laureate novelist of Voss, about an explorer's doomed expedition.
Maori | Indigenous New Zealand people and language central to Keri Hulme's The Bone People.
Miles Franklin | Australian author of My Brilliant Career; namesake of Australia's top literary award.
Banjo Paterson | Australian bush poet of "Waltzing Matilda" and "The Man from Snowy River."
Oscar and Lucinda | Peter Carey's Booker-winning novel of two gamblers transporting a glass church across Australia.
Thomas Keneally | Australian novelist of Schindler's Ark, the Booker winner behind Schindler's List.
"Bliss" | Katherine Mansfield story of Bertha Young's euphoria shattered by discovering her husband's affair.
Eleanor Catton | New Zealand novelist whose gold-rush novel The Luminaries won the Booker Prize.
Patrick Victor Martindale White | Full name of the Australian Nobel laureate who wrote Voss.
Alice Ann Munro | Full name of the Canadian Nobel short-story writer of Dance of the Happy Shades.
Anne Carson | Canadian poet-classicist of Autobiography of Red, reworking the Geryon myth.
Life of Pi | Yann Martel's Booker-winning novel of a boy adrift with the tiger Richard Parker.
Margaret Eleanor Atwood | Full name of the Canadian author of The Handmaid's Tale.
Oskar Schindler | German industrialist who saved Jewish workers, subject of Keneally's Schindler's Ark.
Republic of Gilead | Theocratic regime of Atwood's Handmaid's Tale, where handmaids bear children for commanders.
the Australian bush | Outback setting mythologized in bush ballads by Paterson and Lawson.
"Dance of the Happy Shades" | Title story of Alice Munro's debut collection, at a piano recital for disabled children.
Bushrangers | Australian outlaw figures like Ned Kelly, recurring in Australian literary and folk tradition.
Ern Malley | Fictitious poet invented as a modernist-poetry hoax by two Australian writers in 1943.
My Brilliant Career | Miles Franklin's novel of a headstrong young woman resisting marriage in rural Australia.
Ned Kelly | Australian bushranger/outlaw figure, subject of Peter Carey's True History of the Kelly Gang.
Oryx and Crake | Margaret Atwood's dystopian novel of bioengineering catastrophe, narrated by "Snowman."
Peter Philip Carey | Full name of the two-time Booker-winning Australian novelist of Oscar and Lucinda.
The Bone People | Keri Hulme's Booker-winning novel of the reclusive Kerewin, a mute boy, and Maori identity.
Voss | Patrick White's novel of a German explorer's doomed trek across the Australian interior.

# Classical Antiquity
> Greek tragedy and comedy, Roman poetry, and ancient Near Eastern epic supply a comparative layer beneath the modern unit.
Antigone | Sophocles's tragedy of a woman who defies King Creon to bury her brother Polynices.
Sappho | Ancient Greek lyric poet from Lesbos known for passionate, fragmentary love poetry.
Euripides | Ancient Greek tragedian of Medea and The Bacchae, known for psychologically complex characters.
Sumerian | Ancient Mesopotamian language of Enheduanna's hymns and the earliest Gilgamesh poems.
Ancient Egyptian | Language and tradition of hieroglyphic texts like the Book of the Dead and love poetry.
Homer | Ancient Greek epic poet of the Iliad and Odyssey; model for Walcott's Omeros.
The Bacchae | Euripides's tragedy in which Dionysus drives Theban women to tear King Pentheus apart.
The Iliad | Homer's epic of Achilles's wrath during the Trojan War.
Catullus | Roman neoteric poet of passionate short lyrics to his beloved Lesbia.
Enheduanna | Akkadian high priestess of Ur, hymnist of Inanna and history's first named author.
Medea | Euripides's tragedy of the sorceress who kills her own children to avenge Jason's betrayal.
Virgil | Roman poet of the Aeneid, epic of Aeneas's journey from Troy to found Rome.
Ancient Greek | Language of Homer, Sappho, and Athenian tragedy; a model for later world epics like Omeros.
clouds | Aristophanes's Old Comedy play satirizing Socrates and sophistic education.
Epic of Gilgamesh | Ancient Mesopotamian epic of a Sumerian king's quest for immortality after his friend Enkidu's death.
frogs | Aristophanes's Old Comedy play about Dionysus's journey to the underworld to retrieve a tragic poet.
Gaius Valerius Catullus | Full name of the Roman neoteric poet known for passionate lyric poems to Lesbia.
Horace | Roman lyric poet known for the Odes and the Ars Poetica.
Lysistrata | Aristophanes's comedy in which Athenian and Spartan women withhold sex to end the Peloponnesian War.
Oedipus | Sophocles's tragic king who unwittingly kills his father and marries his mother.
Ovid | Roman poet of the Metamorphoses, a compendium of mythological transformation stories.
Sophocles | Athenian tragedian of Oedipus Rex and Antigone.
The Acharnians | Aristophanes's earliest surviving comedy, in which a farmer makes a private peace with Sparta.
The Odyssey | Homer's epic of Odysseus's ten-year homecoming to Ithaca and Penelope.
The Trojan Women | Euripides's tragedy of Hecuba and the captive women after Troy's fall.
wisdom literature | Ancient Near Eastern genre of proverbs and instruction, as in Egyptian and Sumerian texts.

# Continental European Literature
> Kafka, Tolstoy, Goethe, Camus, and other non-English-language European writers recur as a comparative layer within the unit.
French | Language of Flaubert, Voltaire, Sartre, and Camus, as well as Francophone Caribbean and African writers.
Bertolt Brecht | German playwright who developed Epic Theatre and the alienation effect; wrote Mother Courage.
ghosts | Henrik Ibsen's play Ghosts, about hereditary syphilis and hypocrisy in a Norwegian family.
Gustave Flaubert | French realist novelist of Madame Bovary, about a doctor's wife's affairs and disillusionment.
Blindness | Jose Saramago's novel of a contagious epidemic of white blindness and societal collapse.
Franz Kafka | Prague German-language writer of The Metamorphosis and The Trial; namesake of Murakami's Kafka on the Shore.
Spain | Home of Cervantes and Lorca; colonial power shaping Latin American literature.
Don Quixote | Cervantes's novel of a deluded knight-errant and squire Sancho Panza; touchstone for Borges's Pierre Menard.
Adamastor | Storm giant of the Cape of Storms in Camoes's Portuguese epic The Lusiads.
Italy | Home of Dante, Manzoni's The Betrothed, and Italo Calvino.
Jean-Paul Sartre | French existentialist of Nausea and No Exit; declined the Nobel Prize.
Nikolai Gogol | Russian author of "The Overcoat" and Dead Souls; namesake of the protagonist in Lahiri's The Namesake.
The Stranger | Camus's novel of Meursault, who kills an Arab on an Algiers beach and faces absurd judgment.
"Diary of a Madman" | Gogol story of a clerk's descent into madness; Lu Xun reused the title for China's first modern story.
Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin | Full name of the Russian poet considered founder of modern Russian literature; wrote Eugene Onegin.
Anatole France | French Nobel laureate novelist and satirist known for Penguin Island.
Anna Karenina | Leo Tolstoy's novel of a married Russian aristocrat's ruinous affair with Count Vronsky.
Federico Garcia Lorca | Spanish poet and playwright of Blood Wedding, executed during the Spanish Civil War.
Francois Villon | Medieval French poet known for the vagabond, criminal life reflected in his ballades.
Graham Greene | English novelist of The Power and the Glory and The Quiet American, exploring faith and colonialism.
Isaac Bashevis Singer | Polish-American Yiddish-language Nobel laureate known for tales of Jewish life in Eastern Europe.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe | German polymath of Faust and The Sorrows of Young Werther; central to Weimar Classicism.
Jose Saramago | Portuguese Nobel laureate novelist of Blindness, about a contagious epidemic of white blindness.
Leo Tolstoy | Russian novelist of Anna Karenina and War and Peace; late convert to Christian anarchism.
Ludwig van Beethoven | German composer occasionally invoked as a comparison figure in common-link tossups.
Madame Bovary | Gustave Flaubert's novel of a provincial doctor's wife's affairs and disillusionment.
Man's Fate | Andre Malraux's novel of revolutionaries during the 1927 Shanghai uprising.
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra | Full name of the Spanish author of Don Quixote.
Nazi Party | German political movement whose Holocaust backdrops works like Schindler's Ark.
Out of Africa | Karen Blixen's (Isak Dinesen's) memoir of running a coffee farm in colonial Kenya.
Polish | Language of Nobel poets Czeslaw Milosz and Wislawa Szymborska.
Roland Barthes | French critic of Mythologies who proclaimed "The Death of the Author."
Samuel Beckett | Irish absurdist of Waiting for Godot, an influence on Gao Xingjian's Bus Stop.
The Betrothed | Alessandro Manzoni's Italian novel of lovers Renzo and Lucia separated in plague-era Lombardy.
the Netherlands | European nation whose colonial rule of Indonesia backdrops Multatuli's Max Havelaar.
Thomas Mann | German Nobel novelist of The Magic Mountain, Death in Venice, and Buddenbrooks.
Voltaire | French Enlightenment satirist of Candide, mocking optimism through Pangloss.

# Movements, Motifs & Common Links
> Recurring objects, themes, and literary movements -- magical realism, Negritude, the Boom, common-link animals and colors -- tie works together across regions.
magical realism | Genre blending realistic narrative with fantastical elements; defines the Latin American Boom and beyond.
wine | Recurring motif/common-link object across world literature, from gauchos' drink to Rubaiyat imagery.
masks | Recurring motif/common-link object across African and world literature, tied to ritual and identity.
English | Language shared across many postcolonial literatures (Nigeria, India, Caribbean) despite colonial origins.
Negritude | Francophone Black literary movement asserting African cultural pride, led by Cesaire and Senghor.
tigers | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature, from Bengal to Life of Pi.
Heart of Darkness | Joseph Conrad's novella of Marlow's journey up the Congo; frequent target of Achebe's postcolonial critique.
the moon = moon | Recurring celestial motif/common-link answerline across world literature traditions.
cannibalism | Recurring thematic motif/common-link across Latin American and other world literature works.
Modernismo | Late-19th-century Latin American literary movement led by Ruben Dario and Jose Marti.
red | Recurring color motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Booker Prize | Major British literary award frequently won by postcolonial and Commonwealth novelists.
death | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
cats | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline, as in Natsume Soseki's I Am a Cat and Murakami's fiction.
dogs | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works, as in Mahfouz's The Thief and the Dogs.
birds | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
farms | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
gardens | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
graphic novel | Genre exemplified in this unit by Marjane Satrapi's Persepolis.
Latin American Boom = the Latin American Boom | 1960s-70s literary movement of Latin American novelists including Garcia Marquez, Vargas Llosa, Cortazar, and Fuentes.
Margaret | Likely a common-link first name, most prominently Margaret Atwood, Canadian author of The Handmaid's Tale.
Paris | Recurring expatriate setting motif/common-link answerline, home to Cortazar's and Vallejo's exiles.
seasons | Recurring natural motif/common-link answerline, central to haiku's seasonal kigo words.
sonnets | Fourteen-line lyric form, as in Neruda's One Hundred Love Sonnets and Mistral's Sonnets of Death.
stone | Recurring object motif/common-link answerline, as in the sentient stone of Dream of the Red Chamber.
trees | Recurring natural motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
beauty | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
brothers | Recurring relational motif/common-link answerline, as in Fugard's Blood Knot.
drowning | Recurring death motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
drums | Recurring object motif/common-link answerline, prominent in African literature and ritual.
elegy | Poetic form of mourning, recurring across world poetic traditions.
flowers | Recurring natural motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
hell | Recurring afterlife motif/common-link answerline, as in Akutagawa's "Hell Screen."
odes | Lyric form of praise, as in Neruda's Elemental Odes and Horace's Odes.
photographer | Recurring occupational motif/common-link answerline, as in Cortazar's "Blow-Up."
prisons | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline, as in Kiss of the Spider Woman.
bananas | Recurring motif/common-link answerline, as in the banana company massacre in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
couplets | Two-line verse unit underlying the ghazal and Rumi's Masnavi, the "Spiritual Couplets."
doctor | Recurring occupational motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
dreams | Recurring motif/common-link answerline, from Sor Juana's First Dream to Borges's fictions.
Edgar Allan Poe | American Gothic master whose macabre tales modeled Quiroga's stories and Edogawa Ranpo's pen name.
Ezra Pound | American modernist whose Cathay freely adapted Li Bai, including "The River-Merchant's Wife."
four | Common-link number, unlucky in East Asia for sounding like "death"; the Four Great Classical Novels.
Jane Eyre | Charlotte Bronte novel whose madwoman Bertha Mason is reimagined in Rhys's Wide Sargasso Sea.
kings | Recurring figure motif/common-link answerline, from the Shahnameh's Book of Kings onward.
letters | Recurring epistolary motif/common-link answerline, as in Mariama Ba's So Long a Letter.
mountains | Recurring natural motif/common-link answerline, as in Soul Mountain and Kawabata's fiction.
Othello | Shakespeare's tragedy of the Moor of Venice, a recurring touchstone for postcolonial rewriting.
rivers | Recurring natural motif/common-link answerline, as in A Bend in the River.
United States of America | Frequent immigrant destination in world literature, from Americanah to Oscar Wao.
ballroom dancing | Recurring motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Cloud Atlas | David Mitchell's nested six-narrative novel spanning Pacific voyages to a post-apocalyptic future.
cockroaches | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline, as in Lispector's Passion According to G.H. and Kafka.
colonel | Recurring rank motif/common-link answerline, as in No One Writes to the Colonel.
dictator | Recurring figure motif/common-link answerline central to the Latin American dictator novel.
dictators | Recurring figure motif/common-link answerline, from El Senor Presidente to The Feast of the Goat.
elephants | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
golden | Recurring color motif/common-link answerline, as in The Golden Gate and Temple of the Golden Pavilion.
Great Expectations | Dickens's novel of Pip; a colonial-era touchstone reworked in Mister Pip and Jack Maggs.
green | Recurring color motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
horse | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
marriage | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline, as in A Suitable Boy's matchmaking plot.
night | Recurring motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Nobel Prize in Literature | Award common-link tying together Tagore, Mahfouz, Soyinka, Garcia Marquez, and Kawabata.
paradise | Common-link title shared by Toni Morrison's and Abdulrazak Gurnah's novels.
recipes | Recurring motif/common-link answerline, structuring Like Water for Chocolate's chapters.
rings | Recurring object motif/common-link answerline, as in Shakuntala's recognition ring.
San Francisco | Californian city setting of Vikram Seth's verse novel The Golden Gate.
science fiction | Genre exemplified in this unit by Liu Cixin's Three-Body Problem and Lessing's later work.
solitude | Recurring theme motif/common-link answerline, from Garcia Marquez's title to Paz's Labyrinth.
stones | Recurring object motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
suicide | Recurring theme motif/common-link answerline, from Chikamatsu's plays to Mishima's own death.
Surrealism | Avant-garde movement influencing Paz, Neruda, Cesaire, and Kobo Abe.
swans | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline; the emblematic bird of Dario's Modernismo.
the sea | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline, central to Walcott's Caribbean poetry.
tiger | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline, from Blake to The White Tiger and Life of Pi.
W. B. Yeats | Irish poet whose "The Second Coming" titled Things Fall Apart; introduced Tagore's Gitanjali.
William Butler Yeats | Irish poet linked to this unit via Tagore's Gitanjali introduction and Achebe's title source.
World War II | Global conflict backdropping The English Patient, Schindler's Ark, and much Japanese fiction.
writing | Recurring self-referential motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Wuthering Heights | Emily Bronte's novel of Heathcliff and Catherine; a Gothic touchstone for later rewritings.
Afrofuturism | Movement blending African diaspora culture with science fiction and speculative futures.
Alexander the Great | Ancient Macedonian conqueror invoked across world epic traditions, e.g. the Shahnameh.
alley | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline, as in Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy alleys.
America | Recurring destination motif/common-link answerline for immigrant and diaspora narratives.
Amy Tan | Chinese-American novelist of The Joy Luck Club, exploring mother-daughter immigrant relationships.
Andrew Marvell | English metaphysical poet known for "To His Coy Mistress"; occasional comparison figure.
apartheid | South African system of racial segregation, central to Gordimer, Coetzee, and Fugard's work.
Beyonce | American singer occasionally invoked in modern comparative or common-link tossups.
Bird | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
blood | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
books | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline, as in Borges's Library of Babel.
butterflies | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
California | Recurring American setting motif/common-link answerline, as in Seth's Golden Gate.
cat | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline, as in Soseki's I Am a Cat.
Charles Dickens | English novelist of Great Expectations, occasionally invoked in postcolonial comparative tossups.
Comedy | Dramatic genre; the ancient Greek Old Comedy tradition includes Aristophanes's plays.
committing suicide | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline, notably in Japanese literature.
cranes | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline, as in Kawabata's Thousand Cranes.
detective | Recurring occupational/genre motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
detective fiction | Genre exemplified in this unit by Borges's stories and Edogawa Ranpo's Japanese mysteries.
diaries | Recurring literary-form motif/common-link answerline, as in Gogol's "Diary of a Madman."
diary | Recurring literary-form motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
dictator novel | Latin American genre depicting fictionalized strongman rulers, as in El Senor Presidente.
Dutch | Language basis of Afrikaans, spoken in South African literature.
epics | Long narrative poetic genre spanning traditions, e.g. Shahnameh, Ramayana, Omeros.
farm | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
forests | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
ghost stories | Recurring genre motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
gods | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
graphic novels | Genre exemplified in this unit by Marjane Satrapi's Persepolis.
grass | Recurring motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
graveyards | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
hair | Recurring motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
handmaids | Recurring motif/common-link answerline, from Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale.
Henry Miller | American novelist of Tropic of Cancer, known for frank, expatriate prose.
horses | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
ice | Recurring motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
J | Single-letter answerline, likely a common-link initial; too ambiguous to identify further.
jade | Recurring object motif/common-link answerline, tied to jade imagery in Chinese classical literature.
James | Likely refers to Henry James or a similarly ambiguous common-link "James" figure.
James Baldwin | American novelist and essayist of Go Tell It on the Mountain and Notes of a Native Son.
Jose | Likely refers to Jose Marti or Jose Rizal, recurring "Jose" figures in this unit.
judge | Recurring occupational motif/common-link answerline, as in Kiran Desai's retired judge.
La Malinche | Nahua woman who served as interpreter for Cortes; symbol of betrayal and translation in Mexican culture.
labyrinths | Recurring motif/common-link answerline, central to Borges's fiction.
Langston Hughes | American Harlem Renaissance poet, occasional comparison figure in diaspora-themed tossups.
Liu | Likely refers to Liu Cixin, Chinese science-fiction author of The Three-Body Problem.
London | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline for postcolonial immigrant narratives.
love | Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
mirrors | Recurring motif/common-link answerline, central to Borges's fiction.
monkeys | Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline, as in Sun Wukong in Journey to the West.
New York City | Recurring immigrant-destination setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
opera | Recurring genre motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Orpheus | Mythical musician whose descent to the underworld recurs as a comparison figure across traditions.
palaces | Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline, as in Mahfouz's Palace Walk.
Paul Theroux | American travel writer known for his mentorship and bitter feud with V.S. Naipaul.
pillows | Recurring object motif/common-link answerline, as in Sei Shonagon's Pillow Book and Quiroga's story.
poetry | Recurring genre motif/common-link answerline across world literature traditions.
postman | Recurring occupational motif/common-link answerline, as in Skarmeta's novel about Neruda's postman.
prophets | Recurring figure motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
quatrains | Four-line stanza form of Omar Khayyam's Rubaiyat and Persian ruba'i tradition.
rain | Recurring weather motif/common-link answerline, as in Macondo's years-long rains.
Robinson Crusoe | Defoe's castaway novel, rewritten postcolonially in Coetzee's Foe.
Silent Spring | Rachel Carson's environmental expose of pesticides; occasional comparative reference.
songs | Recurring form motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Susan Sontag | American critic of "Against Interpretation" and On Photography; staged Godot in Sarajevo.
the Devil | Recurring figure motif/common-link answerline, as in The Devil to Pay in the Backlands.
the novel | Genre common-link answerline; The Tale of Genji is often called the first one.
tragedy | Dramatic genre perfected in Athens by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides.
translation | Recurring theme/common-link answerline; Rabassa's Boom translations are frequent clues.
United Kingdom | Former imperial power and migrant destination framing much postcolonial fiction.
Vietnam War | Conflict backdropping Bao Ninh's The Sorrow of War and diaspora fiction.
Virginia Woolf | English modernist of Mrs Dalloway; frequent stream-of-consciousness comparison figure.
weddings | Recurring event motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
William Golding | English Nobel novelist of Lord of the Flies, about schoolboys' descent into savagery.
William Shakespeare | English playwright whose Tempest and Othello are recurring postcolonial touchstones.
zombies | Figures from Haitian folklore recurring in Caribbean and diaspora fiction.
