=== STOCK CLUES: Damien Hirst ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Aboriginal Australians [or Aboriginals or accept Aborigines or Indigenous Australians or Native Australians; accept Worrorra; accept Anmatyerr; prompt on Australians] (The Utopia art colony accused Damien Hirst of appropriating the dot painting technique.)
  - The essay Bell's Theorem discusses this ethnicity's role in contemporary art and posits that art from this ethnicity "is a white thing!" It's not French, but the Utopia art colony accused an artist of appropriating an art style developed by this ethnicity for his "Veil Paintings." In the 1970s, an art company run by members of this ethnicity named Papunya Tula popularized the use of acrylic paint over traditional ochre pigments in its country.
  - One artist of this ethnic group, (*) Emily Kame Kngwarreye , was known for her dot paintings.
  - Central Desert paintings depicting this ethnic group's mythos commonly use thick, wavy lines to represent rivers and songlines.
  - For 10 points, paintings by members of what ethnicity often depict the Dreamtime? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: formaldehyde [or methanal; or CH2O] (all the clues refer to Damien Hirst artworks)
  - In one work, this substance surrounds a disk representing the goddess Hathor between two golden horns.
  - This substance was added to the central piece of John LeKay's This Is My Body, This Is My Blood for the artwork In Nomine Patris.
  - An umbrella hangs from hooks and appears in this substance in the Gagosian Gallery's Pursuit of Oblivion.
  - The artworks The Golden Calf and The Kingdom are surrounded by this substance and were sold at the "Beautiful Inside My Head Forever" auction.
  - An artist claimed this substance showed "Life's like this, then it stops" in the work Mother and Child Divided for Charles Saatchi.
  - A Queensland fisherman caught an animal surrounded by this liquid in the artwork The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living.
  - Damien Hirst encased a shark in, for 10 points, what chemical that preserves tissue? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 GORKY II (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: unicorns (accept The Hunt of the Unicorn; accept The Lady and the Unicorn; accept Young Woman with Unicorn; accept Les Licornes; prompt on 'horse' if they buzz after the Damien Hirst clue) [The note in the first line is in reference to Edmond de Rothschild, who commissioned Les Licornes.]
  - A note regarding "imbeciles ... whose understanding of art ... is scarcely better than the average concierge or hog butcher" was written by Gustave Moreau after a collector continually criticized a work he commissioned depicting these animals.
  - A red wooded area appears around a woman in flowing white and blue clothes in a self portrait with one of these animals by (+) Remedios Varo. [PWR]
  - During restoration, a palm frond, wheel, and cloak were removed from a painting featuring one of these animals. [PWR]
  - One of these animals stands in a tank of formaldehyde in Damien Hirst's The Dream,and (*) Raphael painted a portrait of an unknown woman holding one of these animals. [PWR]
  - An"AE" monogram tied together by red string appears throughout a series of works titled for one of these creatures, and another series commonly interpreted as representing the five senses is titled for The Lady and one of these creatures.
  - For 10 points, The Cloisters currently houses a series of seven tapestries titled for The Hunt of what mythical creature? [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Damien Hirst
  - A Venice art exhibition purporting to display artifacts from an ancient Greek shipwreck was in fact a solo exhibition for this artist. [PWR]
  - In another controversial act, this artist bypassed galleries and sold directly to the public with his Sotheby's show, Beautiful Inside My Mind Forever, where this artist auctioned off The Golden Calf, a bull with gold-encrusted horns (*) suspended in liquid. [PWR]
  - The pear-shaped diamond known as the "Skull Star Diamond" is on the center of a platinum-cast human skull made by this artist and titled For the Love of God.
  - For 10 points, name this formerly Young British Artist whose work The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living consists of a tiger-shark in a tank of formaldehyde. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: formaldehyde [prompt on descriptions, such as "that greenish stuff Damien Hirst puts in boxes"] [3]
  - This material surrounds a sculpture consisting of dove's wings attached to a bull's heart with a knife stabbed through it. [PWR]
  - Another work using this material includes three Carrara marble plinths topped with panels that show bony carcasses in crucifixion poses. [PWR]
  - Besides God Alone Knows, works using this substance include Adam and Eve, which places it in blue and pink box frames instead of the usual white, and it was used to show a three-dimensional snapshot of a lamb wandering off alone in the work Away from the Flock.
  - This material's most famous use was funded by Charles Saatchi and parodied by the (*) Stuckists in a work stating that a certain dead animal "Isn't Art." That work conveyed fear of the open ocean by using this to emulate sea water. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this chemical that was used in The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living to suspend a tiger shark in a tank, as well as in various other works by Damien Hirst. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist from this country used clippings from pornographic magazines to construct a collage portrait of George Bush after his commission to paint the President was withdrawn. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United Kingdom [or Britain or UK or United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Island]):
    Name this country, whose head of state blends into a mottled sea of reds as a butterfly lands on his shoulder in a portrait unveiled in 2023.
  Part 2 (ans: Damien Hirst [or Damien Steven Brennan]):
    Jonathan Yeo painted a seated portrait of this other British artist wearing a hazmat suit in a constrained green room. Truong Tran used pornographic clippings to protest the use of live butterflies by this leading YBA member.
  Part 3 (ans: the Virgin Mary [accept Madonna]):
    Chris Ofili, another Young British Artist, caused controversy by using pornographic images and elephant dung in a mixed media painting of this Biblical woman, whose Annunciation was a common subject in Renaissance art.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Traditional bark paintings from this country that use elaborate cross-hatching techniques are considered examples of "X-ray style art." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Australia [or Commonwealth of Australia]):
    Name this home country of the Utopia Art Project, which elevated an artist who used the "dump dump" technique to create her abstract paintings.
  Part 2 (ans: pointillism [prompt on divisionism]):
    Dot paintings by Australian Aboriginal artists such as Emily Kngwarreye ("ung-WAH-ray") are often likened to this painting technique employed in Georges Seurat's Sunday Afternoon.
  Part 3 (ans: Damien Hirst [or Damien Steven Hirst]):
    In 2018, this artist was accused of appropriating Aboriginal dot painting to create the Pierre Bonnard-inspired Veil paintings. This artist's sculpture For the Love of God is a cast of a skull coated in diamonds.

[B3] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This English artist made many "pour paintings" by spreading car paint with hair dryers, see-saws, and other unconventional methods. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: John LeKay):
    Name this British artist who placed a sewer pipe onto a bed for his sculpture, Wind pipe. He included sensory deprivation tanks and tape recorders in his first solo exhibition for the Paula Allen Gallery.
  Part 2 (ans: lamb 1.):
    For his "meat series," LeKay created the artwork This Is My Body, This Is My Blood which features the carcass of this animal.
  Part 3 (ans: Damien Hirst):
    LeKay has accused this other British artist of plagiarism, specifically of his Spiritus Callidus series.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's butterfly and pills themed Empathy Suite in Las Vegas broke records for being the most expensive hotel room in the world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Damien Hirst [or Damien Steven Hirst; or Damien Steven Brennan]):
    Name this contemporary artist of the works The Golden Calf and For the Love of God.
  Part 2 (ans: shark [accept tiger shark; accept great white shark]):
    In The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living, Hirst preserved one of these aquatic animals in formaldehyde. Joe Alves designed the models for one of these animals for Steven Spielberg's Jaws.
  Part 3 (ans: dots [accept polka dots or circles]):
    In the Veil Paintings, Hirst covered a canvas entirely with these things in a grid. Another artist covered their body with these things while lying nude on a macaroni-shaped couch.

[B5] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This museum displays specially commissioned artworks in its massive Turbine Hall, which was the original venue for Anish Kapoor's installation sculpture Marsyas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tate Modern):
    Name this museum housed in a refurbished power station, whose permanent collection includes Lichtenstein's Whaam! and Dali's Metamorphoses of Narcissus.
  Part 2 (ans: Damien Hirst):
    The Tate Modern cemented its status as the second most visited museum in the world, afer the Louvre, with its record-breaking retrospective dedicated to this leader of the Young British Artists, which included his diamond-studded skull For the Love of God.
  Part 3 (ans: Celebes [or The Elephant Celebes]):
    The Tate Modern also owns this Max Ernst painting based on a photo of a Sudanese corn-bin, which shows a headless mannequin wearing a surgical glove in front of a massive round mechanical creature.

[B6] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: s 21. His works include The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar and The Red Cross Knight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Singleton Copley):
    Name this artist who kind of botched it by putting in big lips in his Watson and the Shark.
  Part 2 (ans: Damien Hirst):
    Most of us can get behind the fact that Watson and the Shark is art, with or without lips, but it sure does take a lot more to get to the position to accept that this man's The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living is also art as well.
  Part 3 (ans: For the Love of God):
    Damien Hirst's best work of art is probably this sculpture, which consists of 8,601 diamonds embedded into a skull of platinum.

[B7] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This advertising magnate was an early patron of works and exhibitions by the Young British Artists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Saatchi):
    Name this famous patron of modern British art, whose namesake gallery is on the King's Road in London.
  Part 2 (ans: Damien Hirst):
    At the YBA show, Charles Saatchi purchased A Thousand Years, a work by this artist who also curated the Freeze exhibition and whose more recent works include The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living.
  Part 3 (ans: Everyone I Have Ever Slept With, 1963-1995):
    In 2004, a warehouse fire destroyed several works in Saatchi's collection, including this 1995 piece by Tracey Emin, which takes the form of a tent.
