=== STOCK CLUES: Nam June Paik ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nam June Paik
  - One of this artist's Playable Pieces, which instructs the performer to "cut your left forearm a distance of ten centimeters" was performed by composer Joseph Byrd.
  - One of this visual artist's installations was displayed during New Year's Day 1984 and featured music from Peter Gabriel, Laurie Anderson, and John Cage.
  - In addition to creating Good Morning, Mr.
  - Orwell, this man collaborated with Christine Moorman on (*) TV Brafor Living Sculpture.
  - This performance artist depicted Buddhist themes and religious iconography in his installations Portable God and TV Buddha.
  - This man created a map of the United States with neon tubing, TV sets, and DVD players in his installation Electronic Superhighway.
  - For 10 points, name this South Korean Fluxus member and video art founder. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Human Use of Human Beings (2018) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Answer: Nam June Paik
  - This man imagined a world 26 years from now where "audio cassettes, telex, data pooling" and other technologies would contribute to a "broadband communication network". [PWR]
  - Problems with a satellite link to France disrupted a "space yodel" this man planned for an event hosted by George Plimpton on New Year's Day in 1984. [PWR]
  - Charlotte Moorman was an assistant to this man. [PWR]
  - He placed a magnet on top of his signature devices to generate abstract forms. [PWR]
  - In his report "Media Planning for the Postindustrial Society" he coined the term "electronic (*) super highway". [PWR]
  - He had a breakthrough moment during Pope Paul VI's arrival in New York City, aided by his recently purchased Sony Portapak.
  - Scenes from The Wizard of Oz play in the Kansas screen of one of his works, which consists of a map of the US made from some 300 TV screens.
  - For 10 points, name this Korean-American video artist. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nam June Paik [or Baek Namjun; or Paek Namjun]
  - This artist proposed that an "acoustic space" could be created if you put "all the politicians from the world ... inside a circle" and activated "23 machine guns at the same time." A piece of "danger music" by this artist instructs the player to "climb inside the vagina of a live female whale." The journalist George Plimpton appeared as a host in a work by this artist in which John Cage's "prepared cactus" was broadcast.
  - Another work by this one-time member of Fluxus features shots from The Wizard of Oz and uses neon lights to depict Alaska, Hawaii, and the continental US.
  - This artist of Good Morning, Mr.
  - Orwell often collaborated with Charlotte Moorman, for whom he designed a "cello bra" whose "cups" are screens.
  - A 1974 proposal he wrote contained an early use of the phrase "electronic super highway".
  - The idea that televisions would link the world together drove the work of, for 10 points, what South Korean artist? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist is a professor of visual art at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joan Jonas 1.):
    Name this American visual and performance artist, known for such works as Vertical Roll and Organic Honey's Visual Telepathy.
  Part 2 (ans: Nam June Paik):
    Joan Jonas was part of the Video Art movement, which was pioneered by this Korean-American artist. This artist is known for his use of CRT tubes and video cameras in his installations, which include Electronic Superhighway.
  Part 3 (ans: Fluxus):
    Nam June Paik was a prominent member of this art collective, known for its C. Neo-Dadaist works. A participant of this movement, Dick Higgins, coined the term "intermedia" to describe works from this collective. "intermedia" to describe works from this collective.

[B2] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Luis Torres and Michelle Marder Kamhi collected this critic's art opinions in the book What Art Is, in which her "esthetic theory" claims photography and anything with the "schizoid tendencies" of John Cage isn't art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ayn Rand [or Alice O'Connor; or Alisa Rosenbaum]):
    Name this critic who imagined an art school dubbed "romantic realism" in her treatise The Romantic Manifesto. Tamara de Lempicka's Self-Portrait in a Green Bugatti serves as the cover for one of this author's books.
  Part 2 (ans: Pop Art):
    Rand claimed that if a painting belongs to this movement, "one can be reasonably certain that the work in question is not art." This movement depicted mass media images like the Campbell's Soup Cans of Andy Warhol.
  Part 3 (ans: Nam June Paik [or Paik Nam June]):
    Another "spurious postmodernist" hated by Rand was this artist who collaborated with Charlotte Moorman to create a playable cello made of TV's. This Korean founder of video art created a map of the United States using screens he dubbed the Electronic Superhighway.

[B3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's work was put on display in the "Here Comes Fluxus" exhibition at the Track 16 Gallery in 2016. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nam June Paik):
    Name this Korean-American artist who placed a statue of the Buddha in front of a TV recording live feed of itself.
  Part 2 (ans: Los Angeles, California [or LA]):
    The "Here Comes Fluxus" exhibition took place in this city, the home of the Track 16 gallery. Pre-20th century European art can be found at the Getty Museum in this Californian city.
  Part 3 (ans: latex):
    The Track 16 Gallery exhibits sculptures by many contemporary artists, such as Alicia Piller's many works using this material. The Contingent series by German-American sculptor Eva Hesse primarily uses fiberglass and this material.

[B4] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: George Plimpton hosted an installation created by this artist, various parts of which included Merce Cunningham dancing with time-delayed images of himself and Thompson Twins performing 'Hold Me Now'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nam June Paik):
    Name this artist who created the installation "Good Morning, Mr. Orwell", which was broadcast on New Year's Day, 1984.
  Part 2 (ans: Salvador Dali):
    In "Good Morning, Mr. Orwell", Merce Cunningham and John Cage improvised over a recording of this other artist reciting a poem. This surrealist painter's other works include The Persistence of Memory.
  Part 3 (ans: Laurie Anderson):
    The title song of "Good Morning, Mr. Orwell" was performed by Peter Gabriel and this other artist. This person's performance piece United States features their UK number two hit "O Superman".

[B5] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Early depictions of this figure represented him using symbols such as a pair of footprints. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Buddha [or either part of Siddhartha Gautama]):
    Name this person, followers of whom may depict scenes from his life on cloth in thangka (TAHN-kah) paintings. Odilon Redon's symbolist paintings of this person include one of him Walking among the Flowers.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    Sherrie Levine paid homage to this artist with her golden toilet Fountain (Buddha). Guillaume Apollinaire once remarked that this Dadaist's readymade of a urinal signed "R. Mutt" resembled a seated Buddha.
  Part 3 (ans: Nam June Paik ("beck")):
    This creator of Buddha Watching TV used televisions to create a cello for Charlotte Moorman. This founder of video art coined the term "electronic superhighway."

[B6] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's work inspired the film Tim's Vermeer, a documentary which chronicles Tim Jenison's attempt to reproduce The Music Lesson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Falco):
    This experimental physicist worked with the artist of Mr. and Mrs. Clark and Percy and A Bigger Splash on the "thesis" that Old Masters like Jan van Eyck used the camera obscura to improve their linear perspective.
  Part 2 (ans: Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum):
    Falco curated the enormously popular industrial design exhibit The Art of the Motorcycle at this Upper East Side museum, housed by a spiraling white building designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.
  Part 3 (ans: Nam June Paik [or Paik Nam June]):
    At the Guggenheim, Falco was a technical advisor for an installation by this founder of video art, whose "TV sculptures" include "Electronic Superhighway," "TV Buddha," and "TV Cello." He once attacked John Cage.

[B7] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his Danger Music for Dick Higgins, this artist instructed the performer to crawl into the womb of a living whale, and in another of his works, a seated Buddha statue faces its own image on closed-circuit television. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nam June Paik):
    Name this Korean-American father of video art who had Charlotte Moorman play a cello made out of televisions.
  Part 2 (ans: Fluxus):
    Paik belonged to this avant-garde movement, whose manifesto was written by George Maciunas. Its affiliates included Joseph Beuys, who locked himself in a room with a coyote for three days in "I Like America and America Likes Me."
  Part 3 (ans: John Milton Cage, Jr.):
    Paik once leapt off a stage to snip the necktie of this American composer, who inspired many Fluxus artists through his use of indeterminacy in works such as the Sonatas and Interludes for Prepared Piano and Imaginary Landscape series.

[B8] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following from the thrilling world of video art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Nam June Paik [or Baek Namjun; accept names in either order]):
    The founder and foremost proponent of video art is this Korean-American artist of Media Shuttle. He collaborated with cellist Charlotte Moorman on TV Bra for Living Sculpture and TV Cello.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp [or Henri-Robert-Marcel Duchamp; or Duchampiana]):
    Paik's wife Shigeko Kubota created a series of documentaries about, and sculptural homages to, this Dada artist. Several of those pieces are titled after this man's works Bicycle Wheel and Nude Descending a Staircase.
  Part 3 (ans: The Clock):
    Probably the most prominent recent example of video art is this 2010 film by Christian Marclay, which consists of a 24-hour loop of film clips that contain a certain visual or auditory element following the day in real time.
