=== STOCK CLUES: Imre Kertész ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Imre Kertesz ("ker-tesh") [accept names in either order]
  - One of this man's novels dubs the forces governing an authoritarian state "the logic" and is about a former secret policeman named Antonio Rojas Martens, who is on death row for his involvement in the "Salinas affair." His recurring characters include the philosopher Dr.
  - Oblath, who waits in a publication office with Kurti and Sarah at the beginning of a play discovered by the editor Kingbitter in another of his novels.
  - The author of that play, B., first appeared in a novel by this man in which he constantly recalls the word "no," indicating his refusal to subject a child to the suffering of the world.
  - This author of Detective Story drew on his own life for a novel in which Gyuri Koves learns how to survive Zeitz from Bandi Citrom after earlier stops in Buchenwald and Auschwitz.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Liquidation, Kaddish for a Child Not Born, and Fatelessness, a Nobel laureate from Hungary. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel, this author reflects on two uses of the word "no" in his life; one when his wife suggests they have children, and one when he is asked by a doctor whether he has children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Imre Kertesz [KER-TESH]):
    Name this author who wrote about refusing to bring new life into a world that allowed the Holocaust in Kaddish for an Unborn Child, and of a child's experience in Buchenwald in Fateless.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai [KRASS-NA-WHORE-KYE]):
    This author from the same country as Kertesz writes about a circus that only has a whale in The Melancholy of Resistance, and how farmers escape from their masters in an authoritarian society in Satantango.
  Part 3 (ans: Hungary [accept Magyarorszag]):
    Kertesz and Krasznahorkai are both from this Central European nation, whose other contemporary authors include Peter Nadas and whose national epic is The Siege of Sziget.

[B2] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: According to Susan Sontag, this writer's A Book of Memories was "the greatest novel written in our time, and one of the great books of the century." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Nadas ):
    Identify this author whose latest novel, Parallel Stories, begins with the fall of the Berlin Wall and encompasses most of post-war European history.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai ):
    This countryman of Peter Nadas wrote of Georgy Korin, who finds an unknown manuscript and is overwhelmed by its beauty, in his novel War and War, and Mrs. Eszter's scheming to get herself appointed head of the town committee on moral renewal in The Melancholy of Resistance.
  Part 3 (ans: Imre Kertesz):
    Sure, whatever, they're Hungarian, just like this author of Fatelessness and Kaddish for a Child Not Born.
