=== STOCK CLUES: Kertész ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 22 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Andre Kertesz
  - Of this artist, Henri Cartier-Bresson once said, "we owe him a great deal." This artist spent a XIX. period of time photographing a number of Etruscan artifacts and artworks. [PWR]
  - A man walking a dog inside of a small patch of land is visible in a work from his American period. [PWR]
  - A nude woman with a heavily twisted face, reminiscent of The Scream, is featured in the 51st entry of this artist's (*) Distortions series. [PWR]
  - The pose of a woman laying on the couch in another of his photographs reflects the white torso on the left.
  - Early in his career, this artist photographed a woman with a head scarf and a man with a hat looking through holes in a fence, set in Budapest.
  - One of this man's most famous photographs, titled La Fourchette, was taken during his French period.
  - For 10 points, name this influential Hungarian photographer of Satiric Dancer. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: concentration camps [or death camps; or extermination camps; or Konzentrationslager; accept specific concentration camps such as Auschwitz-Birkenau or Buna] (The novel in the lead-in is Kertesz's Fatelessness; the second line is Kertesz's Kaddish for an Unborn Child.)
  - A character working at one of these locations with the minesweeper Bandi Citrom calls it "beautiful" as he is carried to a hospital for a welted knee.
  - The narrator B.  chooses never to have children after going to one of these locations in another novel from the same trilogy that is titled for an "Unborn Child." While traveling to one of these locations, Madame Schachter freaks out after seeing visions of flames.
  - The quote "There is no why here" defines one of these places according to the memoir If This Is a Man.
  - The narrator asks "Where is God now?" while he watches a child being hanged at one of these locations in a novel in which Moishe the Beadle warns the people of Sighet.
  - For 10 points, Elie Wiesel's novel Night is set at what type of location where many Jews were sent under the Nazi regime? [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Auschwitz [or Auschwitz-Birkenau; or Auschwitz-Monowitz; prompt on partial answer] (the novel in the leadin is Kertesz's Liquidation)
  - During a poker game, the publisher Kingbitter calls this place "the untrumpable card." A work set here opens with a poem that curses, "may your children turn their faces from you" to the reader who does not "carve [t]hese words into your heart" and describes its author's time making synthetic rubber here. [PWR]
  - This location is cited as the reason not to have kids by Imre Kertesz. [PWR]
  - A memoir partially set in this location repeatedly asks "Where is God?" and declares God "is hanging here from this gallows." "Survival" in this place was chronicled in (*) If This is a Man by Primo Levi. [PWR]
  - Moshe the Beadle discusses the Kabbalah in a memoir that describes a march from this location to Buchenwald.
  - For 10 points, name this concentration camp complex, a primary setting in Elie Wiesel's Night. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Imre Kertesz ("ker-tesh") [accept names in either order]
  - One of this man's novels dubs the forces governing an authoritarian state "the logic" and is about a former secret policeman named Antonio Rojas Martens, who is on death row for his involvement in the "Salinas affair." His recurring characters include the philosopher Dr.
  - Oblath, who waits in a publication office with Kurti and Sarah at the beginning of a play discovered by the editor Kingbitter in another of his novels.
  - The author of that play, B., first appeared in a novel by this man in which he constantly recalls the word "no," indicating his refusal to subject a child to the suffering of the world.
  - This author of Detective Story drew on his own life for a novel in which Gyuri Koves learns how to survive Zeitz from Bandi Citrom after earlier stops in Buchenwald and Auschwitz.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Liquidation, Kaddish for a Child Not Born, and Fatelessness, a Nobel laureate from Hungary. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel, this author reflects on two uses of the word "no" in his life; one when his wife suggests they have children, and one when he is asked by a doctor whether he has children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Imre Kertesz [KER-TESH]):
    Name this author who wrote about refusing to bring new life into a world that allowed the Holocaust in Kaddish for an Unborn Child, and of a child's experience in Buchenwald in Fateless.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai [KRASS-NA-WHORE-KYE]):
    This author from the same country as Kertesz writes about a circus that only has a whale in The Melancholy of Resistance, and how farmers escape from their masters in an authoritarian society in Satantango.
  Part 3 (ans: Hungary [accept Magyarorszag]):
    Kertesz and Krasznahorkai are both from this Central European nation, whose other contemporary authors include Peter Nadas and whose national epic is The Siege of Sziget.

[B2] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about artists who were inspired by Piet Mondrian ("peet MAHN-dree-ahn"), for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Kertesz ("KAIR-tayss")):
    Upon coming to Paris, this photographer captured Mondrian's Glasses and Pipe framed by a lozenge ("LAH-zunj")-like white table. He also captured a snowy Washington Square Park from his apartment during his later career in New York, but is better known for his Distortion series and a photo of a fork resting on a plate.
  Part 2 (ans: cocktail dresses [or little black dress]):
    Yves Saint-Laurent's ("eev san-loh-RON's") Mondrian Collection was a series of flat, minimalist examples of these fashion items. Coco Chanel pioneered the "little black" one, which was given a cinched waist and full skirt in Christian Dior's New Look.
  Part 3 (ans: Dan Flavin):
    This Minimalist American sculptor began his "barriers" series with an installation consisting of two crisscrossing railings made of fluorescent tubelights titled greens crossing greens and subtitled To Piet Mondrian who lacked green.

[B3] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a swimmer whose body is distorted by the water in one of his photographs, which prompted him to create an entire series of Distortions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Kertesz [or Kertesz Andor]):
    Name this stockbroker-turned-photographer, who took a famous close-up of a fork resting against a plate and depicted a lounging, carefree woman in his photo Satiric Dancer.
  Part 2 (ans: Life):
    This magazine hired Kertesz to take a series of photographs of tugboats in New York City, and refused to publish his images of the rest of the harbor. This Henry Luce-created magazine is the photojournalistic counterpart to Time.
  Part 3 (ans: The Family of Man):
    Kertesz was sadly excluded from this exhibition of 503 images curated by Edward Steichen at the MoMA, which was seen by over nine million people. Steichen turned it into a book with an introduction by his brother-in-law Carl Sandburg.

[B4] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer assisted Jean Renoir on A Day in the Country and The Rules of the Game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    Name this Frenchman, an aficionado of the 35 mm camera, who is considered the father of modern photojournalism. Many of his photographs were published in books like The Decisive Moment and The Face of Asia.
  Part 2 (ans: train station):
    One of Cartier-Bresson's photos shows a man in mid-air as he runs through the rain outside one of these buildings, examples of which include Gare Sant-Lazare in Paris and a 'Grand Central' one in New York.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre (Andor) Kertesz):
    This Hungarian photojournalist won acclaim for his photos of Washington Square Park and used elaborate mirrors to warp images of nudes in his Distortion series.

[B5] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: According to Susan Sontag, this writer's A Book of Memories was "the greatest novel written in our time, and one of the great books of the century." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Nadas ):
    Identify this author whose latest novel, Parallel Stories, begins with the fall of the Berlin Wall and encompasses most of post-war European history.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai ):
    This countryman of Peter Nadas wrote of Georgy Korin, who finds an unknown manuscript and is overwhelmed by its beauty, in his novel War and War, and Mrs. Eszter's scheming to get herself appointed head of the town committee on moral renewal in The Melancholy of Resistance.
  Part 3 (ans: Imre Kertesz):
    Sure, whatever, they're Hungarian, just like this author of Fatelessness and Kaddish for a Child Not Born.

[B6] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A boy eats an ice cream cone while seated on a pile of newspapers in New York City in an entry from this man's photo collection On Reading. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Kertesz [accept in either order]):
    Identify this photographer who showed a utensil leaning against a bowl in his photo The Fork, and who captured images of Paris in works like Paris Vu and 1945s Day of Paris.
  Part 2 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag]):
    Andre Kertesz, like Nobel-prize winning novelist and author of Fatelessness Imre Kertesz, was born in this modern-day country.
  Part 3 (ans: Diplomacy):
    Istvan Kertesz wrote several books on this topic, including one about it In a Whirlpool. G.R. Berridge has written a standard textbook on its "Theory and Practice", while Henry Kissinger wrote a 1994 book with this title that started and ended by discussing the New World Order.
