=== STOCK CLUES: John Donne ===
Tossup questions: 22 found, 68 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 29 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - In a poem by this author, the speaker bribes "little brethren" and would give up the title substance "To embalm thy father's corpse," asking, "what? will he die?" This author's elegies include one titled "The Perfume" and one where the speaker claims "There is no penance due to innocence" and calls the title subject, "my America! my new-found-land." The speaker of another poem by this poet uses "gold to airy thinness beat" as a comparison for a unity that is not "A breach, but an expansion." In a poem by this author of "To His Mistress Going to Bed," the speaker tells the title subject, "Thou art slave to fate, chance, [and] kings." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet of "Death, be not proud" and the collection Holy Sonnets. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne (the unnamed poem is "A Valediction of My Name, in the Window")
  - The speaker of a poem by this author promises that all of his "muscle, sinew, and vein / which tile this house, will come again" after he "contributes his firmness" to a glass pane he engraves. [PWR]
  - In another poem by this author, the speaker describes the "mintage" of his own tears, which are "coined" by the addressee's face. [PWR]
  - One of two objects in a third poem by this author "leans and harkens" after the other and "grows erect" as the other "comes home." The speaker cautions the addressee not to make (*) "sigh-tempests move" in a poem by this author that opens, "As virtuous men pass mildly away." In comparing himself and his lover to two arms on a compass, this poet wrote, "Thy firmness makes my circle just." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote Valedictions "of Weeping" and "Forbidding Mourning." [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Holy Sonnets [or Divine Meditations; or Divine Sonnets; prompt on sonnets; prompt on sonnets by John Donne]
  - One of these poems imagines "All whom war, dearth, age, agues, tyrannies, / Despair, law, chance hath slain" rising from the dead.
  - Another of these poems lists "lecherous goats," "serpents envious," and "poisonous minerals" as things that cannot be damned.
  - Three words from one of these poems title a book subtitled "Camille Paglia  Reads Forty-Three of the World's Best Poems." The title entity of one of these poems is described as (*) "slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men." In another of these poems, Reason is described as a weak viceroy who lets the speaker become "like an usurp'd town," leading the speaker to ask God to "break, blow, burn and make me new." For 10 points, "Death Be not Proud" and "Batter My Heart, Three-Person'd God" are from what set of poems by John Donne? [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Holy Sonnets [or Divine Meditations or Divine Sonnets; prompt on sonnets by John Donne] (The poem in the first line is "As due by many titles I resign.")
  - One of these poems contrasts a figure who "lovest mankind well, yet wilt not choose me" with one who "hates me, yet is loth  to lose me." Despite claiming "my thirst hath fed," a "thirsty dropsy melts" the speaker of one of these poems, which discusses the time "Since she whom I lov'd hath paid her last debt" and was written after Anne More's death.
  - One of these poems contains requests to "Divorce me... take me to you, imprison me" and ends "Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me." In addition to "Batter my heart, three-person'd God," another one of these poems refutes claims that a certain figure is "mighty and dreadful" before calling it "slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men." For 10 points, "Death, be not proud" is part of what set of religious 14-line poems by John Donne? [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - A poem by this author begs for a "heavenly Lethean flood" before concluding, "That thou remember them, some claim as debt, / I think it mercy if thou wilt forget." Another poem by this author compares "reason" to a "viceroy" who should defend him, but "is captiv'd, and proves weak or untrue." In a poem, this author implores his addressee to "pour new seas in mine eyes" and "burn me... with a fiery zeal," because his "world's both parts" have been (*) "betray'd to endless night." Another poem by this author concludes that he "never shall be free, / Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me." That poem asks its addressee to "break, blow, burn, and make me new." For 10 points, name this author of "I am a little world made cunningly" and "Batter my heart, three-person'd God," two of his Holy Sonnets. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Anne [accept Anne Boleyn or Anne More or Anne Donne or Anne Hathaway] {The first sentence is John Donne's epitaph for his wife; the second sentence is about Thomas Wyatt's poem on Anne Boleyn's execution titled "Innocentia Veritas Viat Fides Circumdederunt me inimici mei" or "My enemies surround my soul."}
  - Note to players: The answer to this tossup is a first, or given, name, and not a surname. [PWR]
  - This is the first name of the dedicatee of the epitaph "Miserrimum  Dictu." A poem about the death of a woman with this first name takes from Seneca the refrain "circa Regna tonat," or "It thunders through the realms." The speaker of a poem about a woman with this first name claims that, since "her soul early into heaven ravished," "Wholly on heavenly things my mind is set." A pun on this first name begins the last line of a poem that continues (*) "saved my life, saying 'not you.'" A woman wears a necklace inscribed "Noli me tangere" in the sonnet "Whoso List to Hunt," which is about Thomas Wyatt's pursuit of a woman with this first name. [PWR]
  - John Donne  secretly married a woman with this first name and the surname More.
  - One author left his wife with this first name his "second-best bed" from his estate in Stratford.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of Shakespeare's wife Hathaway and of the queen Boleyn. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - An epitaph by this poet describes a woman as lectissimae dilectissimaeque , a pun meaning both "most choice" and "well-read." In a letter written from Fleet Prison, this author implores Thomas Egerton to save him from his future father-in-law George in court. [PWR]
  - The speaker declares that "Wholly on heavenly things my mind is set" because a soul was "early into heaven ravished," in a sonnet by this poet declaring that his deceased wife has (*) "paid her last debt / To nature." The fallout from this author's secret marriage may have prompted him to write his defense of suicide, Biathanatos .
  - One of his poems asks his wife Ann More to "endure not yet / a breach, but an expansion / Like gold to airy thinness beat," and suggests the two should part as "virtuous men pass mildly away." For 10 points, name this poet who declared "thy firmness makes my circle just" in his "A Valediction Forbidding Mourning." [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - This author asks, "What merchant's ships have my sighs drowned?" in a poem that a later critic used to exemplify "the language of paradox." In another poem by this author, two figures are "inter-assured of the mind" and "care less, eyes, lips, and hands to miss" because they share a love "so much refined." Cleanth Brooks borrowed a line from this poet for the title of his book (*) The Well-Wrought Urn, which analyzes a poem by this author that begins, "For God's sake, hold your tongue and let me love." This poet compares two souls to "swift twin compasses" in a poem in which he tells his lover, "Thy firmness makes my circle just / and makes me end where I begun." For 10 points, "The Canonization" and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" were written by what Metaphysical poet? [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - In letters to her future husband, Elizabeth Barrett referred to this author as belonging to Robert Browning, who called him "revered and magisterial" despite the fact that he was little-read until the 20th century. [PWR]
  - This author is a character in a poem in which he states: "My labors did bring forth to life / feelings and thoughts as heavy as dark chains." In another poem, the speaker describes his "eyes burned from the ashen prose" of this author. [PWR]
  - That poem references a quote by this author when describing "A colony like ours, (*) 'part of the continent, piece of the main.'" This author "has sunk in sleep" according to an elegy for him by Joseph Brodsky. [PWR]
  - Derek Walcott concluded his poem "Ruins of a Great House" by directly quoting this author's line "as well as if a manor of thy friend's." A text by this iauthor from his collection Devotions upon Emergent Occasions provided the title of Ernest Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls .
  - For 10 points, name this author whose "Meditation XVII" includes the phrase "no man is an island." [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - The speaker of one poem by this author compares the relationship he has with the addressee to two "hemispheres" "without sharp north" or "declining west." The speaker of another poem by this author compares the white robes the addressee is wearing to the ones worn by "heaven's Angels" before telling her to "bringst with thee a heaven like Mahomet's paradise." An (+) aubade by this author begins with the speaker asking the addressee, "I wonder...what thou and I did, till we loved?" In a poem by this author, the speaker compares his lover to his "kingdom" that is "safeliest when with one man mann'd" after comparing the act of fondling her to (*) the exploration of America. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem by this author of "The Good-Morrow" asks the addressee if she has "purpled thy nail, in blood of innocence" by killing a creature that "sucked me first, and now sucks thee." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet of "To His Mistress Going to Bed" and "The Flea." [GIVE]

[T11] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - William Empson dubbed this writer the "Space Man" in reference to his alleged desire to visit other planets.
  - This writer's work emerged from a period of obscurity in part due toAlexander Grosart's edition of his Complete Poems, which was condemned as a "literary fiasco" by Charles Eliot Norton.
  - This writer mentioned "flattering speeches" intended to "court God" in a poem which likens "devout fits [that] come and go away" to a "fantastique ague ." This writer described reason as "your viceroy in me" and compared himself to a "usurped (*) town" in a poem which tells its addressee, "I... never shall be free, nor ever chaste, except you ravish me." This writer conjured the image of Jesus bleeding "incorruptible blood" at the end of "Death's Duel," the last of 160 sermons he wrote as Dean of St.
  - Paul's after converting to Anglicanism in 1615.
  - For 10 points, identify this English poet who included "Batter my heart, three person'd god" among his nineteen Holy Sonnets. [GIVE]

[T12] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - The speaker of a poem by this author asks his lover if, prior to meeting, they "snorted... in the Seven Sleepers' den" and later alludes to the Earth's hemispheres. [PWR]
  - Another poem by this author alludes to erection-inducing angels that set "our flesh upright" and calls the addressee "my America! [PWR]
  - My new-found-land." In one of this author's poems, two lovers sit next to violets on a river's "pregnant bank." This author of "The (*) Good Morrow" employed the image of a compass in a poem that ends with the lines "Thy firmness makes my circle just, / And makes me end where I begun." He addressed one poem to a being who is "slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men" and coined the phrase "No man is an island." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet of the Holy Sonnets, which includes "Death, be not proud." [GIVE]

[T13] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - This poet's trochees [troh-"keys"] 'stand and nod to left and right' according to a Russian-language poem claiming that he has 'sunk in sleep'.
  - A poem by this author opens with the narrator feeling 'Blasted with sighs, and surrounded by tears' as they visit the title location and consider a 'spider love, which transubstantiates all'.
  - It's not T.
  - S.
  - Eliot, but this subject of an elegy by Joseph Brodsky wrote another poem which contains the instructions 'Get with child a mandrake root' and 'Go and catch a falling star'.
  - A poem written for his wife Anne opens 'as virtuous men pass mildly away' and uses the conceit of two 'stiff twin compasses'.
  - For 10 points, name this English author of "Twickenham Garden", "Song", and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning". [GIVE]

[T14] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - In one poem, this poet describes a grave robber who "spies / A bracelet of bright hair around the bone" which the speaker hopes will make the robber think "there a loving couple lies." In another poem, this poet of "The Relic" asks a lover "hast thou since / Purpled thy nail in blood of innocence?" after describing a creature inside which "our two (*) bloods mingled be." Another poem by him closes with the speaker telling a lover "Thy firmness makes my circle just / And makes me end, where I begin" after comparing her to a compass in an extended conceit. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this English metaphysical poet of "The Flea" and "A Valediction: forbidding Mourning." [GIVE]

[T15] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne's sermons
  - Note: genre and author required. [PWR]
  - Coleridge scribbled the words "Worthy almost of Shakespeare!" in his copy of one of these works, in response to its assertion that "that world which finds itself truly in an Autumn, in itself, finds itself in a spring, in our imaginations." The "Easter" work of this type notes that we are prisoners within "our Mothers' wombs", are born as "Prisoners still, though within larger walls; and then all our life is but a going out to the place of Execution." The author's son compiled a three-volume edition of these 160 works, including one predicting that the "ambitious man shall have no satisfaction... nor the (*) poorest receive any contentment in being made equal to princes, for they shall be equal but in dust." In his biography of their author, Izaak Walton describes how by delivering the last of these works, "Death's Duel," while fatally ill, the author had conducted his own funeral.
  - For 10 points, identify these homilies given by a Dean of Saint Paul's Cathedral who wrote the Holy Sonnets. [GIVE]

[T16] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Holy Sonnets [prompt on "John Donne's Sonnets"; or Divine Sonnets; or Divine Meditations]
  - A member of this set of poems asks the horse why it endures subjection and questions the bull and the boar why they are willing to die to a single stroke. [PWR]
  - An entry in this set of poems asks the addressee to "Pour new seas in mine eyes, that so I might / Drown my world with my weeping earnestly." It includes a poem that begins by asking "Why are we by all creatures waited on" and a poem about the author's (*) dead wife Anne that begins "Since she whom I lov'd hast paid her last debt." A poem in this set addresses a subject that is "slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men." Black sin betrays the two parts of the speaker in a poem from this set titled "I am a little world made cunningly." For 10 points, the statement "Death be not proud" opens the tenth of what set of poems by John Donne? [PWR,GIVE]

[T17] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - This author pondered damnation in writing "Oh I shall soon despair. . . /That thou. . . wilt not choose me/And Satan hates me, yet is loth to lose me". [PWR]
  - In another poem, this man challenged "Spit in my face you Jews, and pierce my side".
  - He asked "Teach me how to (+) repent, for that's as good" as a pardon in a work which commanded angels At the Round Earth's Imagined Corners, Blow.
  - In another work, this poet pleaded "Divorce me, untie, or break that knot again" before concluding that the speaker "never shall be free/ Nor ever (*) chaste, except you ravish me".
  - This author said that "though some have called thee/ Mighty and dreadful", the central figure is "slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men".
  - For ten points, name this Metaphysical poet who included Batter My Heart, Three-Person'd God in his Holy Sonnets, along with Death, Be Not Proud. [GIVE]

[T18] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - This writer concluded, "There we leave you in that blessed dependency, to hang upon him that hangs upon the cross," in a text that elaborates the meanings of the line "And unto God the Lord belong the issues of death." This writer defended propositions "That a Wise Man Is Known By Much Laughing" and "That Nature Is Our Worst Guide" in his early set of Paradoxes and Problems.
  - In a work divided into 23 tripartite sections, each containing an "expostulation" and a "prayer," he wrote that "all mankind is of one Author, and one volume," with each chapter to be "translated into a better language." This man's delivery of "Death's Duel" prompted Izaak Walton to observe that he had "preached his own funeral sermon." He wrote that "every man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind" in a passage asserting "no man is an island." For 10 points, name this Dean of St. [GIVE]
  - Paul's whose Meditation XVII  advises "ask not for whom the bell tolls," and whose poetic works include the Holy Sonnets.

[T19] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - A poem by this author describes the joy of discovering "my America, my new found land, my kingdom, safeliest when with one man manned." That poem tells its addressee to "unpin that spangled breast-plate" and "unlace yourself," before telling her to "license my roving hands, and let them go behind before, above, between, below." Another of his poems declares that "dull sublunary lovers' love ... cannot admit of absence." That poem's speaker says "Thy firmness makes my circle just and makes me end where I begun" as part of a conceit comparing him and his lover to a pair of compasses.
  - For 10 points, name this Metaphysical poet who wrote "To His Mistress Going to Bed" and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning." [GIVE]

[T20] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - In one poem this poet claimed that "all joys are due to thee" of "full nakedness." In another work he stated that "though some have called thee / Mighty and dreadful" the title concept "shalt die." In addition to the elegy "To His Mistress Going to Bed" this man wrote of "a love so much refined, / That ourselves know not what it is." This poet of the Holy Sonnets and "A Valediction Forbidding Mourning" lamented "how little that which thou deniest me is" in his best-known poem.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "The Flea". [GIVE]

[T21] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne
  - This author inspired a 20th-century poem that describes a poster that says: "my bleeding is under control", and includes the line: "The grammar turned and attacked me". [PWR]
  - In an analysis of one poem by this author, the images of an eagle, a dove, and a candle are said to be fused in that poem's reference to "the phoenix riddle". [PWR]
  - The speaker of one poem by him declares that if even if his story is "unfit for tomb or hearse", it is nonetheless "fit for verse". [PWR]
  - That poem by him begins: "For (*) God's sake hold your tongue, and let me love", and compares poetry to a "well-wrought urn".
  - Another poem by him declares "'Twere profanation of our joys / To tell the laity of our love", and compares parting lovers to feet of a compass, in its most famous conceit.
  - For 10 points, name this Metaphysical poet, the author of "The Canonization" and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning". [GIVE]

[T22] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Donne Round 11
  - This man compared using poetry to eliminate the pain of his unrequited love to rivers that "purge sea waters' fretful salt away" in a poem that ends "a little wise, the best fools be." Another of his poems urges "love me that I may die the gentler way, hate me because they love's too great for me." This author of "The Triple Fool" and "The Prohibition" wrote to the Countess of Bedford about "the spider love, which transubstantiates all, and can convert Manna to gall" in "Twickham Garden." He suggested "ride ten thousand days and nights, til age snow white hairs on thee" in a poem listing impossible tasks such as "tell me where all past years are, or who cleft the devil's foot" that begins "go and catch a falling star." Another of his poems ends "except you enthrall me, never shall be free, nor ever chaste, except you ravish me" and asks "batter my heart, three-personed God." For 10 points, name this author of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" and the Holy Sonnets, a Metaphysical poet. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While defending his love, the speaker of this poem asks "What merchant's ships have my sighs drowned?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Canonization" (by John Donne)):
    Name this poem which declares "we'll build in sonnets pretty rooms; / as well a well-wrought urn becomes / the greatest ashes."
  Part 2 (ans: paradox [reject "contradiction"]):
    Cleanth Brooks argued that the only way John Donne ("dun") could have said what "The Canonization" says is through this concept. The first chapter of Brooks's The Well Wrought Urn states that "the language of poetry is the language of [this concept]."
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    In "The Language of Paradox," Brooks finds paradoxes even in the "apparently simple and straightforward" verse of this poet, who wrote "Tintern Abbey."

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Samuel Johnson coined the name of this movement, possibly referencing John Dryden's quip that one poet in this movement "perplexes the minds of the fair sex with nice speculations of philosophy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Metaphysical poetry (The poem is John Donne's "The Flea.")):
    Name this poetic movement characterized by its use of conceits. One writer in this movement described an insect that "sucked me first, and now sucks thee."
  Part 2 (ans: Abraham Cowley):
    Samuel Johnson coined metaphysical poetry in a chapter about this poet who wrote many Pindaric odes and a series of love poems called The Mistress.
  Part 3 (ans: God [accept three-person'd God]):
    The speaker asks this figure to "batter my heart" in a sonnet by metaphysical poet John Donne. John Milton says he wrote Paradise Lost to "justify the ways of" this figure "to men."

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem says, "Why should I share you? Why don't you get rid of someone else for a change?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Meditations in an Emergency"):
    Name this poem by the author of Lunch Poems, Frank O'Hara, which opens, "Am I to become profligate as if I were a blonde?" This poem titles a 1957 O'Hara collection.
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne (The poem was originally titled "Meditations on Re-emergent Occasions.")):
    "Meditations in an Emergency" was originally titled in reference to Devotions Upon Emergent Occasions by this author. This Metaphysical poet wrote the Holy Sonnets.
  Part 3 (ans: heart [accept "My Heart" or "Batter my heart, three-person'd God"]):
    In an O'Hara poem titled for one of these objects, the speaker says, "I want to be at least as alive as the vulgar." In the first line of Holy Sonnet XIV ("14"), the speaker makes a request to "three-person'd God" about one of these objects.

[B4] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet called a lover's body "my America! my new-found-land" in a poem asking her to let his hands go "before, behind, between, above, below." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Donne):
    Name this poet of "To His Mistress Going to Bed."
  Part 2 (ans: the world [or "Anatomy of the World"; or "The World"]):
    After the death of Elizabeth Drury, Donne wrote about the "frailty and the decay" of this place in an "Anatomy" of it. In a Henry Vaughan poem titled for this place, the speaker "saw Eternity the other night, like a great ring of pure and endless light."
  Part 3 (ans: "To His Coy Mistress"):
    The speaker of this Andrew Marvell poem begins a seduction with the line "Had we but world enough and time."

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author asks "Alas, alas, who's injured by my love? / What merchant's ships have my sighs drowned?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Donne):
    Name this author of "The Flea," who stated "For God's sake hold your tongue, and let me love" in "The Canonization."
  Part 2 (ans: well-wrought urn [prompt on urn]):
    "The Canonization" observes that this object "becomes / The greatest" ashes "as half- acre tombs," inspiring the title of a book of "Studies in the Structure of Poetry" by Cleanth Brooks. Exact answer required.
  Part 3 (ans: phoenix (The poem is Shakespeare's "The Phoenix and the Turtle")):
    The speaker of "The Canonization" says this creature's story "hath more wit / By us: we two being one, are it." This is the first title creature of a poem that states "the self was not the same; / Single nature's double name / Neither two nor one was called."

[B6] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Mary Ruefle's poem "Deconstruction" claims that the answer to this question is the poem it appears in, because "there is nothing more seductive, more terrible, than the story of our own life." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: what were the sirens singing in The Odyssey? [accept anything asking what siren song is; accept "Siren Song"]):
    Describe this question whose answer involves calling the protagonist the epithet "great glory of the Achaeans."The "picturesque and mythical" speaker of a Margaret Atwood poem confides that the answer to this question is "a cry for help: Help me!" and complains, "Alas it is [boring] / but it works every time."
  Part 2 (ans: J. Alfred Prufrock [accept "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"]):
    In a likely reference to siren song, this character laments, "I have heard the mermaids singing, each to each. / I do not think that they will sing to me," in a "Love Song" by T. S. Eliot.
  Part 3 (ans: John Donne (The poem is "Go and catch a falling star.")):
    That Prufrock line is a response to this author's reference to siren song in a poem which commands you to "Teach me to hear mermaids singing" and "Get with child a mandrake root."

[B7] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Sergey Zalygin was the first non-Communist editor-in-chief of this journal, which made increasingly bold dissident statements in the 1980s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Novy Mir [or New World]):
    Name this Russian literary journal, whose editor Aleksandr Tvardovsky fought to preserve its independence prior to his dismissal in 1970.
  Part 2 (ans: Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn [Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn]):
    In 1962, Novy Mir gained fame for publishing this author's novel One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich. This author also wrote The Gulag Archipelago.
  Part 3 (ans: John Donne):
    Joseph Brodsky, whose poem set on "the -eenth of Marchember" was published in Novy Mir with no mention of his Nobel Prize, wrote a noted elegy for this English poet. That elegy describes how this author of "The Relic" and "The Triple Fool" has "sunk in sleep."

[B8] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author stated that Reason, "fifty times for one does err," in his poem "A Satire Against Reason and Mankind." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Wilmot, 2nd Earl of Rochester [accept either underlined portion] (The other poem is referred to as "A Satire on Charles II.")):
    Name this licentious, monkey-carrying author who was a courtier for Charles II, although he was briefly exiled for accidentally handing a poem to Charles calling him the "cuckold of Britain."
  Part 2 (ans: Areopagitica [or Areopagitica; A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc'd Printing, to the Parlament of England] (by John Milton)):
    This tract by John Milton against licensed printing claims that "he who destroys a good book, kills reason itself."
  Part 3 (ans: John Donne):
    This author bemoans the faults of "Reason," God's "viceroy in" him, in "Batter my heart, three-person'd God," which is one of his Holy Sonnets alongside "Death be not proud."

[B9] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Katherine Rundell's 2022 biography Super-Infinite credits this poet with at least 340 neologisms, including "bystander," "fecundate," and "imbrothelled." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Donne (The poem is "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.")):
    Name this author and prefix enthusiast who wrote of "dull sublunary lovers' love" in a poem that states "thy firmness makes my circle just, / And makes me end where I begun."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Ecstasy"):
    Donne invented the word "unperplex" in this poem to describe the purifying feeling of losing oneself in another person. In this poem, "the eye-beams" of two lovers twist together before their souls exit their bodies and mingle.
  Part 3 (ans: Izaak Walton (The sermon is Death's Duel; the book is The Compleat Angler.)):
    An infirm Donne used the word "vermiculation" to describe being eaten by worms in what this biographer called Donne's "own funeral sermon." In another book by this author, Piscator, Venator, and Auceps debate recreation.

[B10] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem addressed to one of these people claims that his "gowns," "shoes," and "beds of Roses" will "soon wither, soon forgotten: / In folly ripe, in reason rotten." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: shepherd [or sheep herder; accept "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love"; prompt on herder or animal husbandry]):
    Name this profession often held by the narrators of pastoral poetry. A "passionate" speaker of this occupation pleads, "Come live with me and be my love," in a Christopher Marlowe poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Walter Raleigh [or variants like Walter Rawley or Walter Ralagh; accept "Raleigh Was Right"]):
    William Carlos William wrote "the country will bring us no peace" in a poem titled "[this author] Was Right," which references this author's response to Marlowe, titled "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Bait" (by John Donne)):
    This other response to Marlowe's poem envisions "crystal brooks, / With silken lines, and silver hooks." The speaker of this fish-themed pastoral tells their lover that "Each fish ... will amorously to thee swim."

[B11] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In stories from this collection, a woman cuts off her hands after she learns that her brother is attracted to them, and a woman has to eat a dragon's heart in order to conceive a child. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pentamerone ("pen-TAH-mer-OWN-ay") [or Tale of Tales or Lo cunto de li cunti or Il racconto dei racconti; or Lo trattenemiento de peccerille]):
    Name this 17th-century fairy tale collection by Giambattista Basile ("JAHM-bah-TEE-stah bah-ZEE-leh"), which was the inspiration for a Matteo Garrone film. In its frame story, ten storytellers are hired after the princess Zoza is cursed to never laugh.
  Part 2 (ans: fleas [or pulce or pulci; or Siphonaptera; prompt on insects or arthropods] (The second sentence is from "The Flea" by John Donne.)):
    In the Pentamerone ("pen-TAH-mer-OWN-ay"), a woman has to marry an ogre after her father raises one of these creatures to enormous size. In a poem, one of these creatures is a "bed" and "temple" that holds "three lives in one."
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    The frame-story and style of the Pentamerone was patterned on this author's Decameron.

[B12] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Katherine Philips's poem "Friendship in Emblem" uses the image of "Compasses that stand above," a metaphorical conceit taken from this poem, which asks "So let us melt, and make no noise." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning"):
    Name this poem published in 1633 that states, "If they be two, they are two so / As stiff twin compasses are two." This metaphysical poem concludes, "Thy firmness makes my circle just, / And makes me end where I begun."
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne):
    "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" is by this metaphysical poet, who included "Death Be Not Proud" in his collection Holy Sonnets.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Canonization"):
    Philips's poem "Friendship's Mysterys" alludes to this other Donne poem, whose line "a well-wrought urn becomes / The greatest ashes" provides the title for an essay collection by Cleanth Brooks.

[B13] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This critic contrasted Chaucer and Pope's use of rhyme in his essay "On the Relation of Rhyme to Reason." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: W (illiam) K (urtz) Wimsatt):
    Name this proponent of New Criticism, who collected his essays in books like Hateful Contraries and The Verbal Icon.
  Part 2 (ans: affective AND intentional fallacies):
    Wimsatt collaborated with Monroe Beardsley to write essays arguing that these two critical fallacies result in "biography and relativism." They defined one of them as "a confusion between the poem and its results," and the other as "a confusion between the poem and its origins."
  Part 3 (ans: John Donne):
    Another New Critic, Cleanth Brooks, analyzed this author's poem "The Canonization" in his essay "The Well-Wrought Urn." T.S. Eliot's essay "The Metaphysical Poets" praises this author's "unified sensibility" of thought and feeling.

[B14] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem exclaims, "Yet dearly I love you, and would be lov'd fain, But am betroth'd unto your enemy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Batter my heart, Three Person'd God" [or Holy Sonnet XIV; accept Divine Sonnet or Divine Meditation for "Holy Sonnet"]):
    Name this poem in which the speaker declares "I, / Except you enthrall me, never shall be free, / Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me."
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne (dun)):
    "Batter my Heart, Three Person'd God" is one of the Holy Sonnets by this metaphysical poet, who also wrote "Death Be Not Proud."
  Part 3 (ans: "I am a little world made cunningly" [or Holy Sonnet V; accept Divine Sonnet or Divine Meditation for "Holy Sonnet"]):
    In this other Holy Sonnet, the speaker asks that God "pour new seas in mine eyes... And burn me O Lord, with a fiery zeal / Of thee and thy house, which doth in eating heal."

[B15] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Archibald MacLeish declares science "that simple saint [which] cannot be bothered figuring what anything is for" in a poem in which this man "Discovers the Sea Shell." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sigmund Freud):
    Name this subject of a W. H. Auden elegy which describes him as an "important Jew who died in exile" who studied the "fauna of the night" and "told the unhappy Present to recite the Past."
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Auden later wrote a similar elegy for this poet, which calls the day of his death a "dark cold day" and claims "Mad Ireland hurt you into poetry." This poet included "Leda and the Swan" in his collection The Tower.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Brodsky [or Iosif Aleksandrovich Brodsky] (That work is "Elegy for John Donne.")):
    This poet, whom Auden popularized in the U.S., modeled his "Verses on the Death of T. S. Eliot" on "In Memory of W. B. Yeats." He wrote an elegy for a metaphysical poet describing him as having "sunk in sleep."

[B16] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem from this collection entreats "O let me rise / As larks, harmoniously" and refers to the time after the expulsion from Eden as "the tender age of sorrow." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Temple):
    Name this posthumously-published collection that includes "The Collar" and a poem that ends "Affliction shall advance the flight in me," titled "Easter Wings."
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne):
    The Temple is a collection in the style of metaphysical poetry, which was also used by this English poet, who wrote "Death, be not proud" in the tenth of his Holy Sonnets.
  Part 3 (ans: George Herbert):
    The Temple was written by this metaphysical poet, who was also an Anglican priest. He wrote many religious poems like "The Pulley" and "The Altar."

[B17] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wanted to write a morally educational novel about good and evil, but which also had a fair amount of smut in if. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dermot Trellis [accept either underlined part; accept descriptive answers like 'that fictional author in At Swim-Two-Birds' which establish he's a character in that book]):
    Name this writer who intended to debase the beautiful Sheila Lamont, but who fell in love with Lamont himself, and eventually had a son named Orlick. A description is acceptable.
  Part 2 (ans: Flann O'Brien [or Brian O'Nolan]):
    Dermot Trellis is a fictional character created by the narrator of At Swim-Two-Birds, which itself was written by this Irish author of The Third Policeman.
  Part 3 (ans: John [or John Furriskey, or John Donne]):
    Trellis creates a character with this first name to illustrate depravity and punishment. This is also the first name of the author of "The Flea" and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning."

[B18] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The line "I am a little world made cunningly" opens one of his Holy Sonnets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Donne):
    Identify this poet who wrote of the erotic mingling of blood in his poem "The Flea".
  Part 2 (ans: "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning"):
    The speaker of this Donne poem bids his lover to join him in avoiding "tear-floods" and "sigh-tempests" and lambasts "dull sublunary lovers' love" for being "elemented" in sensuality
  Part 3 (ans: compasses [like for drawing circles]):
    The final portion of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" is an extended metaphor comparing the lovers to these objects. The metaphor opens "If they be two, they are two so / As stiff twin these are two".

[B19] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Modern scholars believe these poems were written around the same time its author was bashing Catholics in a tract titled Pseudo-Martyr. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Holy Sonnets [or Divine Meditations; or Divine Sonnets]):
    Name this 19-poem series includes a poem beginning, "Batter my heart, three-personed God", and another that tells its addressee, "though some have called thee mighty and dreadful, thou art not so".
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne):
    This metaphysical poet wrote the Holy Sonnets including "Death be not proud", as well as lyrics like "The Flea" and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning".
  Part 3 (ans: becoming naked [or disrobing; or obvious equivalents; prompt on going to bed or having sex]):
    In Donne's "Elegy XIX", the speaker tries to get the addressee to do this specific action, revealing at the end that he has already done it "to teach thee". The speaker claims that "all joys are due" to performing this action.

[B20] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet asks "why then / What needst thou have more covering than a man" in a poem extolling the virtues of nakedness, titled "To His Mistress Going to Bed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Donne (that is "The Sun Rising")):
    Name this English poet whose other romantic poems include one that calls its addressee a "saucy pedantic wretch" for waking up the speaker and his lover.
  Part 2 (ans: Death):
    In his tenth Holy Sonnet, Donne tells this figure "thou shalt die" and tells it to "be not proud, though some have called thee / Mighty and dreadful." This figure "kindly stopped for me" in an Emily Dickinson poem.
  Part 3 (ans: "the continent" [prompt on Europe]):
    Donne's seventeenth Meditation from his Devotions upon Emergent Occasions states that "No man is an island entire of itself" since "every man is a piece of" this thing, which makes him "a part of the main."

[B21] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem commands the Lord to "burn me... with a fiery zeal of thee and thy house." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "I am a little world made cunningly" [accept,but do not otherwise reveal:Holy Sonnet 5]):
    Name this poem whose speaker describes himself as having been "betray'd to endless night" by "black sin," and burnt by "the fire of lust and envy."
  Part 2 (ans: Holy Sonnets [or:Divine Sonnets, Divine Meditations]):
    "I am a little world made cunningly" is part of this set of 19 poems, which also includes "Batter my heart, three-person'd God."
  Part 3 (ans: John Donne):
    The Holy Sonnets are by this metaphysical poet who also wrote the Devotions upon Emergent Occasions.

[B22] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem uses the conceit of the legs of a compass to represent the speaker and his beloved. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning"):
    Name this poem whose speaker urges his lover to accept his parting "as virtuous men pass mildly away."
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne):
    This Metaphysical poet of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" described a creature who "sucked me first, and now sucks thee" in "The Flea" and wrote "Death, be not proud," in one of his Holy Sonnets.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Good-Morrow"):
    This Donne poem opens with the query, "I wonder, by my troth, what thou and I did, till we loved?" Its third and final stanza begins, "My face in thine eye, thine in mine appears."

[B23] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these works admits: "Those are my best days, when I shake with fear." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Holy Sonnets [accept but do NOT reveal "John Donne's Holy Sonnets"; prompt on "Sonnets"]):
    Name this collection. The speaker of another of these works tells its subject "to break, blow, burn and make me new."
  Part 2 (ans: "Batter my heart, three-person'd God" [prompt on "God"]):
    That aforementioned Holy Sonnet instructs this figure to "Batter my heart," and admits to dearly loving this figure, despite being betrothed to this figure's enemy.
  Part 3 (ans: John Donne):
    This Metaphysical poet included, "Death, be not proud" among his Holy Sonnets.

[B24] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This command is the first line of a poem that invites the reader to "ride ten thousand days and nights, till age snow white hairs on thee." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Goe, and catche a falling starre" [or "Go, and catch a falling star"]):
    Name this instruction, which precedes other impossible tasks, such as "tell me where all the past years are" and "get with child a mandrake root."
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne):
    "Go and catch a falling star" is one of the songs in the Songs and Sonnets of this poet of "The Flea."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Sunne Rising" [or "The Sun Rising"]):
    In this poem from Songs and Sonnets, the speaker asserts that Love knows "no season...nor clime, nor hours, days, months, which are the rags of time." It calls the title entity a "busy old fool" and a "saucy pedantic wretch."

[B25] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's speaker suggests you should "ride ten thousand days and nights / till Age snow white hairs on thee," if you are the type of person "born to strange sights, / things invisible to see." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Song" [or "Go and catch a falling star"]):
    Name, or provide the frst line, of this poem, whose speaker sneers at the idea of fnding a perfect woman. It advises the reader to "fnd / What wind / Serves to advance an honest mind," and to "get with child a mandrake root."
  Part 2 (ans: John Donne):
    This Metaphysical poet included "Go and catch a falling star" among his Songs and Sonnets and admonished readers to "never send to know for whom the bell tolls" since "It tolls for thee" in one of his Meditations.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Good Morrow"):
    In this frst poem of Songs and Sonnets, the speaker comments that the "waking souls" of him and his lover "watch not one another out of fear" since their love "makes one little room an everywhere." This poem ends with the couplet "If our two loves be one, or, thou and I / Love so alike, that none do slacken, none can die."
