=== STOCK CLUES: Machado de Assis ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 42 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis
  - The feminine king of Thailand switches bodies with his masculine concubine in a story by this author that ponders whether souls are sexed. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, a lecturer details his experiment introducing democracy to a colony of spiders. [PWR]
  - The narrator of another of this author's stories has his wardrobe roasted by the ancient Greek Alcibadides after somehow summoning him to the present day while reading Plutarch.
  - This author's story "Life!" consists of a dialogue between Prometheus and the Wandering Jew.
  - A composer of insipid polkas like "Fine Words Butter No Parsnips" dreams of being a composer of great serious works in this author's story "Fame," which is considered part of his early (*) Romantic period instead of his more widely read Fantastical period.
  - An overzealous doctor created by this author commits nearly everyone in his town to an asylum in the novella The Alienist.
  - The line "I have never quite understood a conversation that I had with a lady many years ago, when I was seventeen and she was thirty" opens this author's story "Midnight Mass." For 10 points, name this 19th-century author who set most of his stories in and around Rio de Janeiro. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis
  - In a novel by this author, the protagonist exults "To the winner, the potatoes!" while considering a parable about two starving tribes. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, the delirious protagonist perceives himself turning into the Summa Theologica and traveling back in time on a hippopotamus. [PWR]
  - After inheriting a fortune from a Social Darwinist, the protagonist of a novel by this author pursues the married Sophia and becomes deluded into thinking he is (*) Napoleon III. [PWR]
  - This author satirized Positivism as "Humanitism," whose inventor first appears in a novel narrated in reverse and dedicated to the "worm that first gnawed on" the narrator's corpse.
  - For 10 points, name this Black Brazilian author of Quincas Borba  and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas . [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Machado de Assis [or Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis; prompt on de Assis]
  - In a story by this author, the philosophy of Pomadism, which holds reality to be inferior to opinion, is preached by a "bonze" from the Kingdom of Bungo.
  - In a story by this author, a man with the motto "plus ultra!" uses Socrates's daemon and Pascal's fear of the abyss to argue that almost everyone is insane.
  - A thinker created by this author praises war with a parable about two starving tribes, inspiring his disciple to frequently mutter "to the victor, the potatoes!" In a story by this author, a psychiatrist causes a revolt by committing most of a town's population to a green-shuttered asylum.
  - This author parodied Social Darwinism and Positivism as "Humanitism," the system of a philosopher who leaves his dog of the same name to his friend Rubiao.
  - For 10 points, "The Alienist" is a story by what 19th-century Brazilian author of Quincas Borba? [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer:  Machado [accept Carmen Maria  Machado or Joaquim Maria  Machado de Assis]
  - A novella by an author with this surname, whose protagonists meet the doppelgangers Abler and Henson, is told through synopses of the show Law and Order: Special Victims Unit . [PWR]
  - That author with this surname recalled her abusive relationship with another woman at the Iowa Writers' Workshop in her largely second-person memoir In the Dream House . [PWR]
  - This is the first surname of the author of a novel in which Christiano and Sofia steal the inheritance of the "Humanitist" disciple (*) Rubiao. [PWR]
  - This is the first surname of that author, who wrote an Othello -infused 1899 novel in which a relationship between Escobar and Capitu is suspected by Bento Santiago.
  - For 10 points, the novels Quincas Borba and Dom Casmurro were written by a Brazilian author with what first surname, whose second surname was "de Assis" ? [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis ("muh-SHAH-doo jee uh-SEES")
  - A character created by this author is angered when his wife cannot remember the words a coconut sweet seller was singing when they first pledged their love. [PWR]
  - Unusual features of a novel by this author include a "Dialogue Between Adam and Eve" composed only of ellipses and a chapter reading "But, I'm either mistaken or I've just written a useless chapter." In that novel, the protagonist wants to invent an "anti- melancholy poultice" and is taught the philosophy of humanitism by a former classmate while having an affair with (*) Virgilia. [PWR]
  - After his friend Escobar drowns, one of this author's protagonists obsesses over his son's resemblance to the dead man.
  - This author's character Quincas Borba appears in a novel narrated from the grave by a "small winner." For 10 points, name this Brazilian author of The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and Dom Casmurro. [GIVE]

[T6] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis
  - In one of this author's novels a father quotes the proem of The Iliad to one of his children before quoting the proem of The Odyssey to his other child to juxtapose their character traits.
  - A short novel by this author follows a "cerebral pathologist" who explains to Soares that the soul is like a gigantic seashell from which he hopes to extract a pearl.
  - In a novel structured as the seventh and last volume of Counselor Ayres's memoirs, this author wrote about the two children of Natividade feuding for the affections of Flora.
  - Another of his books describes the construction of an insane asylum called "The Green House" and follows Simon Bacamarte, the title doctor.
  - In another of his novels, Dona Gloria makes a promise to God to have her child become a priest if it survives childbirth.
  - While at a seminary, the title character of that novel by this author befriends Escobar and fathers the child Ezekiel.
  - This author of Esau and Jacob and The Alienist penned a novel in which Bento suspects that his wife Capitu is having an affair.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Dom Casmurro. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis
  - One work by this writer sees a doctor lock himself in his own asylum to cure him of being sane.
  - The narrator in one novel by this writer starts off by recounting his death from pneumonia despite developing a wonder elixir.
  - Another novel by this author of The Alienist recounts the alleged adultery of Capitu with Escobar, the best friend of the paranoid narrator Bento Santiago.
  - The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and Dom Casmurro are, for 10 points, novels by which Brazilian realist writer? [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis
  - In one story by this writer, a man who has recently read a translated, serialized version of The Three Musketeers,the young student Nogueira, stays up late talking with Conceica Menezes before departing for midnight mass. [PWR]
  - In a novel by him, a man discovers that the prostitute whom he formerly saw has been ravaged by smallpox and now runs a jewelry store, shortly before a former classmate steals his watch. [PWR]
  - Confusion about an envelope address by (*) Sophia plagues a man who made a large donation to the newspaper Atalaia in a novel by this author, in which Rubaio becomes convinced that he is Napoleon III. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this creator of Quincas Borba, who appears in his Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and Philosopher or Dog? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A brothel named for this color is built by Anselmo and rebuilt by his daughter Chunga in the desert outside of Piura. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: green [or verde; accept The Green House or La Casa Verde]):
    Give this color of a house that titles a Mario Vargas Llosa novel. At the beginning of The House of the Spirits, Clara predicts the death of a girl with hair of this color named Rosa the Beautiful.
  Part 2 (ans: Machado de Assis [or Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis] (The unnamed novel is Dom Casmurro.)):
    Dr. Bacamarte locks himself in an asylum dubbed "the Green House" in this author's story "The Alienist." The narrator of a novel by this author suspects his wife Capitu of having an affair with his best friend Escobar.
  Part 3 (ans: Lygia Fagundes Telles [or Lygia Fagundes da Silva Telles; or Lygia de Azevedo Fagundes]):
    The maid Lu helps Tatisa prepare her all-green Carnaval costume despite her father's critical condition in this author's story "Before the Green Ball." This "grand dame of Brazilian literature" also wrote the novel As Meninas.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Do not read this question to Stanford. The Condorist author Castro Alves was nicknamed "the poet of [these people]" in part due to a collection titled for them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: slaves [accept A Escrava Isaura or Os Escravos; prompt on captives or prisoners]):
    What type of person titles a novel by Bernardo Guimaraes about the girl Isaura? Esi becomes one of these people, while her half-sister Effia does not, in Yaa Gyasi's novel Homegoing.
  Part 2 (ans: Machado de Assis [or Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis; prompt on de Assis]):
    This Brazilian author, the mestizo grandson of slaves, wrote of "great sunshine" at a Golden Law celebration. Slavery features in the backdrop of his novels Dom Casmurro and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.
  Part 3 (ans: Crooked Plow [or Torto Arado]):
    This novel set in the Bahia hinterlands depicts the aftereffects of Brazilian slavery via the lives of the sisters Bibiana and Belonisia. This novel by Itamar Vieira Junior was shortlisted for the 2024 International Booker Prize.

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this novel keeps repeating the phrase "to the winner, the potatoes" and begins to think that he is Napoleon III ("the third"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Quincas Borba [or Philosopher or Dog?]):
    Name this novel in which a man becomes the disciple and heir of a philosopher who promotes "humanitism."
  Part 2 (ans: dogs):
    Rubiao becomes the heir of Quincas Borba on the condition that he care for one of these animals that shares Borba's name. One of these animals is the protagonist of The Call of the Wild.
  Part 3 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis ("mah-SHAH-doh jah-SEES")):
    Quincas Borba is by this Brazilian author of Dom Casmurro and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.

[B4] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Tracy Chevalier used an elementary school playground in Washington, D.C., as the setting of her novel based on this play, whose title New Boy is Osei Kokote, the son of a Ghanaian diplomat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Othello):
    John Kani and Paul Robeson have starred in productions of what Shakespeare play about a "Moor of Venice?"
  Part 2 (ans: Machado de Assis ("mah-SHAH-doo jee ah-SEES") [or Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis]):
    This frequent Shakespeare translator drew on Othello in creating the aging narrator Bento Santiago, whose jealousy for his wife Capitu occupies much of this author's novel Dom Casmurro.
  Part 3 (ans: Season of Migration to the North (by Tayeb Salih)):
    Mustafa imagines saying "I am no Othello. I am a lie" while on trial for the murder of his wife Jean Morris in this novel. This novel's unnamed narrator is haunted by Mustafa's presence after returning to his riverside village.

[B5] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literary receptions of Shakespeare's Othello, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: graphic novel):
    Oscar Zarate combined watercolors, inks, and colored pencils while adapting Othello into this genre. Marjane Satrapi's autobiographical Persepolis is a work in this genre.
  Part 2 (ans: Season of Migration to the North [or Mawsim al-Hijrah ila al-Shamal]):
    A character in this novel claims that 'I am no Othello, Othello is a lie' while on trial in this novel. That character uses orientalist motifs to manipulate white women in this novel, and kills his wife Jean Morris.
  Part 3 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis):
    The protagonist is inspired to mistrust his wife by a performance of Othello in this author's novel Dom Casmurro. This Brazilian author also wrote The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.

[B6] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character claims to find herself in a "desert" after going to her maid's room, which she describes as a "minaret." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: G.H. [accept The Passion According to G.H. or A paixao segundo G.H.]):
    Name this character who, in a novel titled for her by Clarice Lispector, finds a drawing of two people and a dog on the wall, and kills and eats a cockroach that emerges from a wardrobe.
  Part 2 (ans: Brazil [or Brasil; or Federative Republic of Brazil; or Republica Federativa do Brasil]):
    The Passion According to G.H. is a novel from this South American country. Like Lispector, most authors from this country, such as Jorge Amado ("ZHOR-zhee ah-MAH-doo"), wrote in Portuguese.
  Part 3 (ans: Machado de Assis ("muh-SHAH-doo jee uh-SEES") [or Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis]):
    Other dogs in Brazilian novels include Quincas Borba, who is owned by the identically-named philosopher Quincas Borba in a novel by this author of The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and Dom Casmurro.

[B7] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The servant Lucrecia ("loo-kreh-see-ah") is threatened with the title object of this author's story "The Case of the Stick" when a joke told by the protagonist distracts her from work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis ("muh-SHAH-doo jee uh-SEES")):
    Name this author of the short story "Midnight Mass." In a novella by this author, Bacamarte opens an asylum called the Green House.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarice Lispector):
    In this other Brazilian author's "The Fifth Story," the narrator gives different accounts of killings of cockroaches. The title character of this woman's novel The Passion According to G.H. kills and eats a cockroach.
  Part 3 (ans: roses):
    In a Lispector story named for The Imitation of Christ, a woman agonizes over whether to give away some of these flowers. A Robert Burns song says that "my love is like" one of these flowers "that's newly sprung in June."

[B8] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel titled for this type of text, Timoteo vows to put violets on Nina's coffin if she dies first. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chronicles [or cronica; accept Chronicle of the Murdered House or Chronicle of a Death Foretold (by Gabriel Garcia Marquez); accept Cronica da Casa Assassinada or Cronica de una muerte anunciada]):
    Name this sort of text, which Lucio Cardoso used to titled his novel about the "Murdered House" of the Meneses family. Another novel titled for this sort of text ends as a man with his entrails in his hands walks into his kitchen and dies.
  Part 2 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis):
    After translating Chronicle of the Murdered House in 2016, Margaret Jull Costa and Robin Patterson put out a 2018 volume of this author's collected stories, which include "Midnight Mass" and "The Alienist."
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    Lucio Cardoso was a close friend of another author writing in this country, Clarice Lispector, who claimed she would have married him if he weren't gay. Machado de Assis was also from this country.

[B9] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A boy's childlike wonder at moving to the big city evaporates when he sees a turkey being killed for a birthday party in this author's story "The Thin Edge of Happiness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joao Guimaraes Rosa):
    Name this author who wrote about a father who sails out into a river and stays there for several decades ignoring all contact from his family in his most anthologized story, "The Third Bank of the River."
  Part 2 (ans: the Sertao [or the Backlands; accept Grande Sertao: Veredas or The Devil to Pay in the Backlands]):
    Most of Rosa's works are set in this outback-like region of Brazil, including a novel translated into English as The Devil to Pay in [this region].
  Part 3 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis [prompt on partial answer]):
    The wife of a notary urges Nogueira to attend a church service on Christmas in this Brazilian author's story "Midnight Mass." This author also created a "small winner" who narrates his "posthumous memoirs" from the grave after dying of pneumonia.

[B10] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel sees himself as Othello and his wife as Desdemona, a theme echoed throughout with Shakespearean quotations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dom Casmurro):
    Name this novel, whose title character Bento is plagued with jealousy over his wife Capitu's suspected infidelity with his friend Escobar, and begins to doubt that Ezequiel is really his son.
  Part 2 (ans: Joaquim Machado de Assis):
    Dom Casmurro is a novel by this author, who also penned Quincas Borba and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and has been called the "supreme black literary artist" by Harold Bloom.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    Machado de Assis hailed from this South American nation. This country was the home of Jorge Amado and Clarice Lispector who, like Machado, wrote in Portuguese.

[B11] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While trying to live by the title character's "Humanitist" philosophy, Rubiao ends up having his entire inheritance swindled by a con man and his wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis):
    Name this author of Philosopher or Dog? who included a dedication to "the worm who first grabbed on the cold flesh of my corpse" in The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.
  Part 2 (ans: Brazil):
    Machado de Assis is from this South American country, where Nacib Saad falls in love with the titular woman in Jorge Amado's Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon.
  Part 3 (ans: The Hour of the Star [or A hora da estrela]):
    In this novel by Brazilian author Clarice Lispector, the impoverished Macabea is told by a fortune teller that her boyfriend will propose to her and a rich foreigner named Hans will fall in love with her. Before any of that happens, she is struck by a Mercedes and dies.

[B12] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following works of 19th-century Latin American literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Fierro):
    The protagonist of this two-part gaucho epic by Jose Hernandez has a night-long singing duel with a black singer and escapes from captivity after the plague death of his friend Sergeant Cruz.
  Part 2 (ans: Dom Casmurro [by Joaquim Machado de Assis]):
    Bento Santiago is inspired by a Shakespeare play to claim that his son Ezekiel was fathered by his friend Escobar, who supposedly had an affair with Bento's wife Capitu, in this 1899 novel.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mangy Parrot [or El Periquillo Sarniento; or The Itchy Parrot; prompt on "El Periquillo"]):
    This Jose Fernandez de Lizardi novel is considered to be the first novel written and published in Latin America. It takes its name from the nickname given to its protagonist, Pedro Sarmiento.

[B13] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One chapter in this book consists entirely of punctuation marks and the names of the title character and his beloved Virgilia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas [or Memorias Postumas de Bras Cubas; or Epitaph for a Small Winner]):
    Name this novel dedicated to "the worm who gnawed the cold flesh of" the corpse of its narrator, who concludes that his failure to conceive a child from any of his relationships was his contribution to mankind.
  Part 2 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis):
    The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas was written by this Brazilian, who also wrote the novels Quincas Borba and Dom Casmurro.
  Part 3 (ans: Achilles):
    Bras Cubas compares a hippopotamus that he comes across to the horse belonging to this character. The Iliad begins with the rage of this hero, who mourns his close companion Patroclus.

[B14] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: He wrote a novella about a doctor named Simao Bacamarte who runs the Green House. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis):
    Name this author of The Alienist and Philosopher or Dog?
  Part 2 (ans: Dom Casmurro):
    Joaquim Machado also penned this novel about Bento, who spends much of his life wondering whether his wife Capitu had an affair with his friend Escobar, eventually becoming so silent he earns the title nickname.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    Joaquim Machado hailed from this Portuguese-speaking South American country, whose other literary talents include Jorge Amado and Clarice Lispector.

[B15] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's character Quincas Borba appears in his The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas and Philosopher or Dog?. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Joaquim Maria) Machado de Assis [or Bruxo do Cosme Velho]):
    Name this author who wrote about a man who suspects the fidelity of his wife, Capitu, in Dom Casmurro.
  Part 2 (ans: Federative Republic of Brazil):
    Machado de Assis hails from this Portuguese-speaking nation.
  Part 3 (ans: Clarice Lispector):
    This Brazilian Jewish writer of A Breath of Life wrote about the title character's existential crisis after killing a cockroach in The Passion According to G.H.
