rocks	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Sacred stones anchor sites like the Dome of the Rock and animist stone-veneration traditions.
Roman Catholicism	Christianity	Largest Christian denomination, led by the Pope, centered on the seven sacraments and apostolic succession.
Sabbath	Judaism	Jewish weekly day of rest from Friday sunset to Saturday nightfall, commemorating creation.
Saint Barbara	Christianity	Early Christian martyr venerated as patron of artillerymen, syncretized with the orisha Shango in Santeria.
Saint Paul the Apostle	Christianity	Former persecutor of Christians converted on the road to Damascus who became Christianity's chief missionary.
Samhain	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Ancient Celtic harvest festival marking the year's dark half, ancestor of modern Halloween.
Satan	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Adversarial figure across Abrahamic traditions, from the biblical tempter to the Qur'anic Iblis.
Scientology	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	Movement founded by L. Ron Hubbard teaching about thetans and using auditing to reach "clear" status.
sex	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Regulated by religious law across traditions, from Catholic clerical celibacy to Islamic marriage requirements.
shahada	Islam	Islamic declaration of faith affirming God's oneness and Muhammad's prophethood, first of the Five Pillars.
Shango	African, Diaspora, and Indigenous Traditions	Yoruba orisha of thunder and lightning, syncretized with Saint Barbara in Santeria.
Shavuot	Judaism	Jewish festival celebrating the giving of the Torah at Sinai, occurring seven weeks after Passover.
Shia Islam	Islam	Branch of Islam holding that Ali and his descendants were Muhammad's rightful successors as Imams.
Shoghi Effendi Rabbani	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	Guardian of the Baha'i Faith who led the religion after Abdu'l-Baha's death.
Sikh gurus	Sikhism	The line of ten spiritual leaders beginning with Guru Nanak who shaped Sikh teaching.
six	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Common-link number appearing across traditions' ritual counts and numerology.
snakes	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Symbol of danger and renewal, from the Edenic serpent to Hindu naga deities.
Song of Songs	Judaism	Poetic Hebrew Bible book of romantic and erotic love, allegorically read as God's love for Israel.
spiritism	African, Diaspora, and Indigenous Traditions	Kardecist movement communicating with spirits of the dead, influential in Latin American syncretic religions like Umbanda.
Sufi Islam	Islam	Mystical branch of Islam emphasizing dhikr and union with God through orders led by saints.
Svetambara	Jainism	"White-clad" Jain sect that permits monastics to wear simple robes, unlike the nude Digambara.
Switzerland	Christianity	Home to Reformation leaders John Calvin and Huldrych Zwingli, centers of the Reformed tradition.
the Bab	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	Persian prophet-herald whose movement, Babism, preceded and prepared the way for the Baha'i Faith.
the bodhi tree	Buddhism	Fig tree under which Siddhartha Gautama attained enlightenment.
The Book of Judges	Judaism	Hebrew Bible book recounting cyclical Israelite apostasy and deliverance by charismatic leaders like Deborah and Samson.
The Book of Mormon	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	Mormon scripture Joseph Smith said he translated from golden plates, recounting ancient prophets in the Americas.
the golden plates	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	Ancient record Joseph Smith said he translated to produce the Book of Mormon.
The Holy Trinity	Christianity	Christian doctrine that God exists as three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, in one being.
the Jesus Prayer	Christianity	Eastern Orthodox contemplative prayer repeating "Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me," central to Hesychasm.
the Mahdi	Islam	Prophesied redeemer figure expected to appear before the Day of Judgment in Islamic eschatology.
The Moon	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Timekeeper for lunar religious calendars, including the Islamic and Jewish months.
The rapture	Christianity	Evangelical Protestant belief that believers will be suddenly taken up to meet Christ before end-times tribulation.
the Sign of the Cross	Christianity	Devotional gesture tracing a cross over the body, invoking the Trinity.
the suffering servant	Judaism	Figure in the Book of Isaiah whose suffering redeems others, read messianically by Jews and Christians alike.
The Ten Commandments	Judaism	Set of divine laws given to Moses on Mount Sinai, foundational to Jewish and Christian ethics.
the Trinity	Christianity	Christian doctrine that God exists as three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, in one being.
The Vedas	Hinduism	Oldest and most authoritative Hindu scriptures, composed of hymns, rituals, and philosophy.
Thomas	Christianity	Disciple remembered for doubting Jesus's resurrection until seeing his wounds firsthand.
three	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Common-link number, as in the Christian Trinity and Hinduism's Trimurti of Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva.
thunder	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Divine weapon and voice, wielded by Indra in Hindu myth and heard at Sinai's revelation.
torii	East Asian Traditions	Gateway marking the entrance to a Shinto shrine, separating sacred space from the ordinary world.
Transubstantiation	Christianity	Catholic doctrine that bread and wine become Christ's actual body and blood at the Eucharist.
twelve	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Common-link number, as in the twelve apostles, twelve tribes of Israel, and twelve Shi'a Imams.
upaya	Buddhism	Mahayana Buddhist concept of skillful means, adapting teaching methods to a student's capacity.
Vajrayana Buddhism	Buddhism	"Diamond Vehicle" tantric school dominant in Tibet, using mantras, mandalas, and esoteric ritual.
wells	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Sacred water sources, from Zamzam in Mecca to biblical wells where patriarchs met their wives.
yajna	Hinduism	Vedic fire sacrifice ritual performed with mantras and offerings to the gods.
Yama	Hinduism	Hindu and Buddhist god of death who judges souls in the afterlife.
yin and yang	East Asian Traditions	Taoist concept of complementary opposing forces balancing the cosmos.
Yoruba	African, Diaspora, and Indigenous Traditions	West African ethnic group whose orisha-based religion spread to the Americas as Santeria, Candomble, and Umbanda.
Zion	Judaism	Biblical name for Jerusalem's hill and the Temple, symbolizing the Jewish homeland.
Zurvan	Zoroastrianism	Personification of infinite time in a Zoroastrian offshoot tradition, sometimes cast as father of Ahura Mazda and Ahriman.
10	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Common-link number, as in Judaism's Ten Commandments and Sikhism's ten Gurus.
14th Dalai Lama	Buddhism	Tenzin Gyatso, current and exiled Dalai Lama, Nobel Peace laureate and global face of Tibetan Buddhism.
African Methodist Episcopal Church	Christianity	Historically Black Methodist denomination founded by Richard Allen in Philadelphia.
Ahl al-Bayt	Islam	Muhammad's family and household, especially revered in Shi'a Islam as sources of religious authority.
al-Baqarah	Islam	Longest chapter (surah) of the Qur'an, containing the throne verse and many legal rulings.
alcohol	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Prohibited in Islam and Mormonism, ritually used in Christian Eucharist wine and Jewish Kiddush.
Aleister Crowley	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	British occultist who founded Thelema, proclaiming "Do what thou wilt" as its central law.
aliyah	Judaism	Jewish practice of immigrating to Israel, also the honor of being called to read the Torah.
Alpha and Omega	Christianity	Biblical title for God/Christ in Revelation, symbolizing being the beginning and end of all things.
Amalek	Judaism	Biblical enemy nation of Israel, later invoked as an archetype of existential Jewish enemies.
amen	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Affirmation word closing prayers across Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Amos	Judaism	Hebrew Bible prophet who condemned social injustice and religious hypocrisy in the northern kingdom.
Anabaptists	Christianity	Radical Reformation movement practicing adult baptism, ancestors of Mennonites and Amish.
Anaphora	Christianity	Central Eucharistic prayer of consecration in Eastern Christian liturgy.
ancient Egyptian religion	Comparative Concepts and General Identifiers	Polytheistic tradition of gods like Ra and Osiris, with elaborate mortuary and afterlife beliefs.
Antioch on the Orontes	Christianity	Syrian city where followers of Jesus were first called "Christians," per Acts.
aparigraha	Jainism	Jain vow of non-possession and non-attachment to material things.
Arabic letters	Islam	Script of the Qur'an, considered sacred in Islamic calligraphy and numerology (abjad).
Areopagus	Christianity	Athenian hill where Paul preached about the "unknown god" to Greek philosophers, per Acts.
Armenia	Christianity	First nation to adopt Christianity as its state religion, in 301 CE.
Asherah	Judaism	Canaanite mother goddess whose worship, sometimes alongside Yahweh, is condemned in the Hebrew Bible.
Ashrama	Hinduism	Four traditional stages of Hindu life: student, householder, forest-dweller, and renunciant.
ashrams	Hinduism	Hindu spiritual hermitages where students live and study under a guru.
Athens	Christianity	Greek city where Paul debated philosophers at the Areopagus about the "unknown god."
Aum Shinrikyo	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	Japanese doomsday cult responsible for the 1995 Tokyo subway sarin gas attack.
Avalokitesvara	Buddhism	Mahayana bodhisattva of compassion, worshipped in East Asia in the feminine form Guanyin.
Avestan	Zoroastrianism	Ancient Iranian language of the Zoroastrian Avesta scriptures.
Bahaʼi Faith	New Religious Movements and Baha'i	19th-century Persian faith founded by Baha'u'llah teaching the unity of religions and humanity.
