=== STOCK CLUES: Robert Lowell ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 44 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 23 found, 69 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Confessional poetry [or Confessionalism; or Confessionalists] (the first two poems mentioned are W. D. Snodgrass's "Heart's Needle" and Robert Lowell's "Beyond the Alps")
  - This movement was arguably launched by a poem titled for a remark about "an only daughter" in The Madness of Suibhne ["SIV-nuh"]. [PWR]
  - A train journey from Rome to Paris prompts a discussion of dwindling Catholic faith in the first poem of a collection from this movement, whose name comes from a review by M. [PWR]
  - L. [PWR]
  - Rosenthal. [PWR]
  - "Beyond the Alps," "91 Revere Street," and (*) "Heart's Needle" were early pieces in this movement of a poem that declares, "White Godiva, I unpeel" after opening, "Stasis in darkness." That poem, which ends with the image of "the red eye, the cauldron of morning," titles a collection edited by Ted Hughes and named for the poet's horse, Ariel.
  - For 10 points, Robert Lowell.and Sylvia Plath belong to what movement of frequently autobiographical poetry? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Robert Lowell (the first line describes "Commander Lowell," which is about Lowell's father)
  - A controversial poem by this author sneers that its title character, at "nineteen," "was 'the old man' of a gunboat on the Yangtze." In another of his poems, as the speaker contemplates "hardly passionate Marlborough Street," he recalls an inmate in a "little segregated cell / full of things forbidden to the common man." This poet deplored the "tranquillized Fifties" in a poem about the head of Murder Inc., (*) "Memories of West Street and Lepke." This poet wrote about an animal that "drops its ostrich tail, and will not scare" in another poem, which appears in the collection that inspired M. [PWR]
  - L.
  - Rosenthal to coin the term "confessional poetry." For 10 points, name this poet of Life Studies, which includes "Skunk Hour" and is often printed alongside For the Union Dead. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: spiders [prompt on bugs or insects or arachnids] (The Robert Lowell poem is "Mr. Edwards and the Spider.")
  - These animals are used to deduce corollaries about the Creator's wisdom and "exuberant goodness" in a letter nicknamed for them that its author wrote to the Royal Society as a teenager. [PWR]
  - The speaker sees these animals on a "mildewed day / in latter August" and recalls watching one die "as a small boy / on Windsor March" in a poem by that author's descendant, Robert Lowell.
  - A text likens the inability of these animals to stop a falling (*) rock to the idea that the audience's "righteousness" cannot "uphold" them. [PWR]
  - That speech uses an image involving these "loathsome" animals to illustrate how someone who "abhors you" has nonetheless kept you from the "great furnace." For 10 points, the image of God dangling mankind "over the pit of hell" is likened to what animal being held over a fire in Jonathan Edwards's sermon "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God?" [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV] (The first poem is "Fourth of July in Maine." The second poem is "My Last Afternoon With Uncle Devereux Winslow." The theme is poems by Robert Lowell mourning relatives from the Winslow family.)
  - In one poem, this author references "two angora guinea pigs" he inherited from his cousin Harriet along with a house in Castine.
  - In another poem, this poet describes his five-year old self dressed as a "stuffed toucan" visiting his dying grandfather. [PWR]
  - This poet commands "ask for no Orphean lute / To pluck life back" after describing a corpse whose "open, staring eyes / Were lustreless dead-lights." This poet, who wrote about his "Last Afternoon" with his uncle Devereux , exclaims "Clamavimus, O depths," in a poem that ends by declaring, "The (*) Lord survives the rainbow of his will." That poem, which this author dedicated to "Warren Winslow, dead at sea," includes a section titled "Our Lady of Walsingham" and repeatedly alludes to Moby-Dick with descriptions of whaling.
  - For 10 points, name this confessional poet of "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket." [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Lowell [accept Robert Lowell or Robert Traill Spence Lowell; accept Amy Lowell or Amy Lawrence Lowell]
  - In a poem by an author with this surname, the speaker says "You are of elm-shaded streets with little shops where they sell kites and marbles" to objects that call "'Goose-quill men, goose-quill men, / May is a month for flitting.'" That author with this surname included a poem where the speaker repeats "False blue, / White, / Purple" titled "Lilacs" in the collection What's O'Clock.
  - A poem by an author with this surname concludes "a savage servility / slides by on grease." An author with this surname described how a "monument sticks like a fishbone" in a poem that opens "The old South Boston Aquarium stands / in a Sahara of snow." For 10 points, give this surname of the imagist poet Amy and the author of "For the Union Dead," her brother Robert. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Robert Lowell [prompt on Lowell]
  - This author received a letter explaining "art just isn't worth that much" after filling their sonnet collection The Dolphin with letters from Elizabeth Hardwick without her consent.
  - Anne addresses her dead husband Harry in this author's poem "Mills of the Kavanaughs," which was likely inspired by this author's attack on their first wife, Jean Stafford.
  - A poem by this author describes "wasp-waisted" statues that "grow slimmer and younger each year." This poet laments "I myself am hell" in a poem about an animal who "jabs her wedge-head in a cup of sour cream." The speaker describes "yellow dinosaur steamshovels" in a poem by this author set at "the old South Boston Aquarium." For 10 points, name this Confessional poet of "Skunk Hour" and "For the Union Dead." [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]
  - In a poem, this author remembers borrowing "Grandfather's cane / carved with the names and altitude of Norwegian mountains" to lance "it in the fauve ooze for newts." In another poem, this poet mentioned "Mother mooned in the window" of his deceased father's "cottage at Beverly Farm." This author of "Dumbarton" and "For Sale" included poems about Ford Madox Ford and George Santayana in the third section of a collection that also features a long prose piece made up of vignettes about his childhood home at (*) 91 Revere Street. [PWR]
  - While listening to a car radio bleat "Love, careless love," a narrator of one of this author's poems states "I myself am hell" before observing an animal who "jabs her wedge-head in a cup of sour cream." For 10 points, name this Massachusetts poet who kicked off the confessional movement with his collection Life Studies, which includes his poem "Skunk Hour." [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lowell [or Robert Lowell; or Amy Lowell]
  - One author with this last name wrote about a boy burning his possessions in "The Red Lacquer Music-Stand." In another work, she described "the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin" who "guesses [her lover] is near" and requests to see "[a]ll the pink and silver crumpled up." One author with this name, whose affair with Ada Dwyer Russell inspired "Two Speak Together," wrote "In Summer and in Winter I shall walk / Up and down" in a garden "in my stiff, brocaded gown." That poem's narrator receives a letter saying her (*) husband died in war and asks "Christ! [PWR]
  - What are patterns for?" Another author with this name declared "My mind's not right" and "I myself am hell; nobody's here" in a work where an animal leads her young to garbage.
  - For 10 points, give this last name of the Imagist poet Amy and the author of "Skunk Hour," Robert. [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Answer: The Pentagon (The poem is Robert Lowell's "The March 2.")
  - The speaker of one poem describes sitting in the "sunset shade" at this location, "nursing leg- and arch-cramps, my cowardly, / foolhardy heart." A track off the album Tenderness Junction recorded live at this location includes the repeated chant "Out, Demons, Out!" The central figure of one novel imagines that the air at this location has been "injected with Novocain" before being arrested, getting into a staring contest with a neo-Nazi, and being moved to an Occoquan workhouse. [PWR]
  - Abbie (*) Hoffman and Jerry Rubin were among those who attempted to "exorcise" this building by levitating it during a protest organized by "the Mobe." The photograph Flower Power shows a young man placing a carnation into the gun barrel of a soldier defending this building.
  - Norman Mailer's The Armies of the Night is an account of a 1967 march on-for 10 points-what building in Arlington, Virginia that serves as the headquarters for the Department of Defense? [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Lowell [or Amy Lowell; or Robert Lowell]
  - A poet with this surname wrote about flowers that have "forgotten" their "Eastern origin" and become "decent" and "reticent" in America in a poem that describes them as "False Blue, White, Purple." That author with this surname reacted to the death of her fiancee, Lord Hartwell, by writing a poem that ends by asking "Christ!
  - What are the [title objects] for?" An Imagist poet with this last name wrote "Lilacs" and "Patterns." An author with this surname warned that "a savage servility / slides by on grease" in a poem arguing that the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial "sticks like a fishbone" in the throat of Boston.
  - For 10 points, identify this surname shared by the American poets Amy and Robert, the author of "For the Union Dead." [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Robert Lowell [accept either underlined answer , or "Bob"]
  - On Christmas Eve, this person's mom calls him the "man of the house", to which he says "I am not a man.
  - I am a boy." This student at the Brimmer school cons his friend Roger Crosby out of several wheelbarrows full of toy soldiers, but is forced to return them.
  - This man sits mixing a "black pile" of earth and a "white pile" of lime at Char-de-sa farm in a scene describing his uncle's death of Hodgkin's disease.
  - This character's daughter rises "like the sun" "in her flame-flamingo infants' wear" in a work in which he concludes "Cured, I am frizzled, stale and small." He recounts his encounter with a "czar" of "Murder Incorporated" in a poem describing his time in jail for not registering for the draft. 91 Revere Street was the address of, for 10 points, what speaker of "Home After Three Months Away" and "Memories of West Street and Lepke", two poems from Life Studies? [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Lowell [or Robert Lowell IV; or Amy Lowell; or James Russell Lowell]
  - In a poem by an author with this surname, the speaker tells his daughter "darling I cannot linger here / in lather like a polar bear." An author with this surname described leading a man wearing a sword-hilt through a maze in a poem that repeatedly mentions "daffodils and squills" blowing in the wind. [PWR]
  - A poem by an author with this surname depicts a man with "angry wrenlike vigilance" and ends "a (*) savage servility slides by on grease." One of that author's speaker says "I myself am hell" after hearing "a car radio" bleat "Love, Oh careless love." A poet with this surname wrote a poem about an animal who "jabs her wedge head in a cup of sour cream" and "does not scare." For 10 points, give this surname of the author of "Patterns," Amy, and the author of "Skunk Hour," Robert, as well as their ancestor, the author of A Fable for Critics. [PWR,GIVE]

[T13] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]
  - In one poem, this author asks "sailor will your sword / whistle and fall and sink into the fat? / In the great ash-pit of Jehoshaphat".
  - In another poem by him, the speaker declares "There are no monuments for the last war here; / on Boylston Street, a commercial photograph / shows Hiroshima boiling." A third poem by him says: "we have lost our summer millionaire, / who seemed to spring from an (*) L.L. [PWR]
  - Bean catalogue." The speaker declares "I myself am death" in that poem by him about "Nautilus Island's hermit heiress." This author of "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket" wrote of "a savage servility" that "slides by on grease" at the end of a poem inspired by a statue of Colonel Shaw.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Skunk Hour" and "For the Union Dead." [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Robert Lowell
  - This poet wrote, "ask for no Orphean lute to pluck life back" in a poem concluding, "The Lord survives the rainbow of his will." That poem describes "the end of the whaleroad and the whale." In another poem, the speaker states, "I hear my ill-spirit sob in each blood cell," before observing a creature that "drops her ostrich tail, and will not scare." This man, who dedicated that poem to Elizabeth Bishop, also described how "giant finned cars nose forward like fish" in a poem noting, "Colonel Shaw is riding on his bubble."For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket," "Skunk Hour," and "For the Union Dead." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author, the speaker says, "You'll walk to no purpose / in Hawthorne's Salem." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV] (The lead-in is from "Hawthorne" and the second poem is "For the Union Dead.")):
    Name this author of a play that adapts Hawthorne's stories "Endecott and the Red Cross" and "My Kinsman, Major Molineux." This author wrote a poem about a "monument [that] sticks like a fishbone / in the city's throat" set at the "old South Boston Aquarium."
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]):
    An author from this country adapted Hawthorne's story "Rappaccini's Daughter" into a play that Daniel Catan, a composer from this country, used for an opera. This country was home to the author of Aura, Carlos Fuentes.
  Part 3 (ans: Suzan-Lori Parks):
    This author, who wrote about "La Negrita" in an adaptation of The Scarlet Letter titled In the Blood, also adapted Hawthorne in her play Fucking A.

[B2] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The poem "Sailing Home from Rapallo" compares this person's "Risorgimento black and gold casket" to "Napoleon's at the Invalides." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lowell's mother [or Charlotte Winslow Lowell; or Charlotte Winslow]):
    Name or describe this person, whose hatred of Navy life and habit of asking her son "A penny for your thoughts, Schopenhauer" were recounted in the prose poem "91 Revere Street."
  Part 2 (ans: "Skunk Hour"):
    "91 Revere Street" appears in Robert Lowell's Life Studies, which concludes with this poem. This poem laments that Nautilus Island has "lost our summer millionaire, who seemed to leap from an L. L. Bean catalogue."
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Madox Hueffer; or Ford Hermann Hueffer]):
    Another poem from Life Studies begins with the image of this author of the war poem "Antwerp" playing golf with David Lloyd George. This author wrote Parade's End and The Good Soldier.

[B3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. An elegy for this person tells her, "If you're reading this then you survived your life into this one if / you're reading this then the bullet doesn't know us / yet." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ocean Vuong's mother [or Le Kim Hong or Rose Le; accept Little Dog's mother or the mother from On Earth We're Briefly Gorgeous or equivalents; accept "Dear Rose"; prompt on mother; reject "Vuong"]):
    Identify this person, the addressee of a letter that recalls her time working in a nail salon. That letter ends with the narrator seeing monarch butterflies in a field and asking this person why she wasn't trampled by buffaloes.
  Part 2 (ans: Roland Barthes ("ro-LAWN bart") [or Roland Gerard Barthes]):
    This author's Mourning Diary inspired both Vuong's letter and the epigraph of his elegy. This theorist wrote "The Death of the Author."
  Part 3 (ans: "Skunk Hour" (by Robert Lowell; the Vuong poem is "The Last Prom Queen in Antarctica")):
    Vuong sees his father chase his mother in a poem noting "Everyone's here," which inverts a line from this poem. "A red fox stain covers Blue Hill" in this poem in which a car radio bleats, "Love, O Careless Love."

[B4] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The last two lines of this poem read, "a woman's trying to erase names: / No, she's brushing a boy's hair." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Facing It" (by Yusef Komunyakaa)):
    Name this poem that describes a "black face... hiding inside the black granite" as its speaker looks at his reflection in the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
  Part 2 (ans: "For the Union Dead" (by Robert Lowell)):
    Augustus Saint-Gaudens's bronze memorial for Colonel Shaw's all-Black regiment is called "a fishbone / in the city's throat" in this poem, which describes "the old South Boston Aquarium" standing "in a Sahara of snow."
  Part 3 (ans: World War I [or WWI or the First World War or the Great War]):
    Dead soldiers from this war are marked by "crosses, row on row" in John McCrae's poem "In Flanders Field." Wilfred Owen wrote the poem "Dulce et Decorum Est" during this war.

[B5] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem from this movement describes how suicides, like carpenters, "want to know which tools. They never ask why build." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Confessional poetry [or Confessionalism; accept "Poetry as Confession"] (The poem in the first line is Anne Sexton's "Wanting to Die.")):
    Name this poetic movement that critics coined in reviews of the collection Life Studies, which features a poem titled for an animal who "jabs her wedge-head in a cup of sour cream."
  Part 2 (ans: Lowell [accept Robert Lowell or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV; accept Amy Lowell or Amy Lawrence Lowell]):
    This surname was shared by Robert, the Confessional poet who included "Skunk Hour" in Life Studies, and Amy, who wrote the Imagist poems "Lilacs" and "Patterns."
  Part 3 (ans: Randall Jarrell (The poem is "The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner.")):
    A Robert Lowell poem titled for this other poet describes him asking, "why did we live? Why do we die?" The speaker of a poem by this author describes being "hunched" in the belly of the state "till my wet fur froze."

[B6] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One member of this family, James Russell, was the first editor of The Atlantic Monthly and satirized Poe and Longfellow in A Fable for Critics. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lowell [accept James Russell Lowell; accept Robert Lowell]):
    Name this New England literary family that includes the author of "For the Union Dead," Robert.
  Part 2 (ans: Sarah Orne Jewett):
    James Russell Lowell's successor as editor was James T. Fields, whose widow spent 38 years living with this author, who was possibly her lover, in one of the more celebrated "Boston marriages" of the 19th-century. This author was the dedicatee of Willa Cather's O, Pioneers!
  Part 3 (ans: A Hazard of New Fortunes):
    Fields's successor as editor was William Dean Howells, who wrote this novel in which Basil March and Fulkerson start a magazine called Every Other Week.

[B7] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Leadin: It's not Dylan Thomas, but this poet's 1966 death from alcoholism in the Chelsea Hotel is discussed in John McDermott's poem "The Poet's Body, Unclaimed in the Manhattan Morgue". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this poet. He became the youngest winner of the Bollingen Prize for his 1959 collection Summer Knowledge, which includes "The Bear Who Goes With Me".
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet included an ode to Schwartz in the collection Life Studies, which also includes his poem "Skunk Hour". This friend of Elizabeth Bishop also wrote "For the Union Dead".
  Part 3 (ans: Dream Songs [accept 77 Dream Songs; accept His Toy, His Dream, His Rest]):
    Twelve elegies for Schwartz, more than for any other writer, appear in this collection by John Berryman, which includes the statement 'Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so'.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the second of this poem's five nine-line stanzas, the speaker proclaims, "The wild thorns grow tame / and will do nothing to oppose the flame / your lacerations tell the losing game." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mr. Edwards and the Spider"):
    Name this poem from Lord Weary's Castle. Its speaker asks Josiah Hawley to picture "a brick-kiln where the blast / fans your quick vitals to a coal," before adding, "the blaze / is infinite, eternal: this is death."
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This descendant of Jonathan Edwards wrote four poems about the theologian, including "Mr. Edwards and the Spider." The speaker proclaims, "I myself am hell" in this man's poem, "Skunk Hour."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Deacon's Masterpiece or, the Wonderful 'One-Hoss Shay': A Logical Story"):
    Many critics believe that the "wonderful one-hoss shay" that "ran a hundred years to the day," described in this poem by Oliver Wendell Holmes, is a reference to Edwards' theology.

[B9] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these things is used to help Leo Irving after he suffers heartbreak because of an Italian girl, who had modeled for his paintings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: vibrators [or Chattanooga vibrators; prompt on sex toys]):
    Name these things. Mrs. Daldry and Mrs. Givings sneak into the "operating theater" while Dr. Givings is out so that they can try using one of these things in a play subtitled for them, which is set "hovering at the dawn of electricity."
  Part 2 (ans: Madame Bovary):
    After seeing his wife with a hand on Leo's cheek in the play In the Next Room (or The Vibrator Play), Dr. Givings cites this book to explain his feelings about cheating. When his wife notes that its author, Gustave Flaubert, wasn't a woman, Dr. Givings retorts that he was a Frenchman, which is "much the same thing."
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop AND Robert Lowell [prompt on partial answers] (The poem is "The Armadillo.")):
    In addition to writing In the Next Room, Sarah Ruhl wrote a play adapted from the correspondence between these two poets. One of them dedicated a poem to the other one describing "frail, illegal fire balloons."

[B10] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem inspired by this religion, the speakers "avarice cooled" upon hearing the Earth Song, a song inside the poem in which the Earth, speaking of dead humans, asks "How am I theirs, / If they cannot hold me, / But I hold them?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hinduism):
    Name this religion. Another poem by the same author, inspired by this religion, commands a "meek lover of the good" to find the title "red slayer."
  Part 2 (ans: Ralph Waldo Emerson):
    Both of those poems, "Hamatreya" and "Brahma," are by this Transcendentalist author of the essays "Self-Reliance" and "Nature."
  Part 3 (ans: Lowell [accept James Russell Lowell or Robert Lowell; the unnamed poem is "For the Union Dead"]):
    Emerson was part of an 1858 venture to the Adirondacks known as the Philosophers Camp, which was led by a poet with this last name who wrote A Fable for Critics. Another poet with this last name described drained faces of Negro school-children" that rise "like balloons" in a poem about a stature near a building that stands in a "Sahara of snow" in South Boston.

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these two authors encouraged the other not to publish his ex-wife's private letters in his collection The Dolphin, stating "art just isn't worth that much." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lowell AND Elizabeth Bishop [accept in either order; accept Robert Trail Spence Lowell IV in place of "Robert Lowell"]):
    Name both of these authors whose 30-year correspondence is collected in the book Words in Air. One of these authors addressed the poem "The Armadillo" to the other, while the other addressed a poem containing the line "We've lost our summer millionaire" to the former.
  Part 2 (ans: Randall Jarrell):
    Lowell and Bishop were introduced by this author. The speaker "woke to black flack and the nightmare fighters" in this author's poem "The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner."
  Part 3 (ans: American Civil War [or United States Civil War; or US Civil War]):
    Lowell's own war poetry includes a poem for the dead of this war's winning side that depicts him visiting a Boston memorial. Lowell's mentor Allen Tate wrote "Ode to the Confederate Dead" about a graveyard for this war's losing side.

[B12] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This author's most famous poem ends 'Here and there in cold pockets of remembrance, whispers out of time.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ashbery):
    This American poet wrote that 'the glass chose to reflect only what he saw' in a poem that features the lines 'the right hand / bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer'.
  Part 2 (ans: a mirror):
    John Ashbery's most famous collection is titled Self Portrait in a Convex [this object]. In a poem by Alfred Tennyson, The Lady of Shalott can only watch the world through this object, which cracks 'from side to side' when she looks at Lancelot.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet asked 'What's filling up the mirror? Oh, is it not I' in his poem "The Fat Man in the Mirror". This poet described how 'I watched for love cars' at a time when only nocturnal animals were awake in "Skunk Hour".

[B13] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem says that a certain monument "sticks like a fishbone / in the city's throat." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "For the Union Dead"):
    Name this poem set at "The old South Boston Aquarium" that sees the narrator reflect on a monument to Colonel Robert Gould Shaw.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet of "For the Union Dead" describes the title creatures as searching "in the moonlight for a bite to eat" in his poem "Skunk Hour."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Armadillo"):
    Lowell dedicated "Skunk Hour" to fellow poet Elizabeth Bishop after she dedicated this poem to him. This poem describes "frail, illegal fire balloons... climbing the mountain height, / rising toward a saint / still honored in these parts."

[B14] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these authors of literature about cancer, none of whom are John Green, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This author, herself a breast cancer patient, described how society uses "blame the victim" language to describe diseases and their sufferers in her treatise Illness as Metaphor.
  Part 2 (ans: Audre Lorde [or Audrey Geraldine Lorde]):
    This lesbian Caribbean-American author of the autobiography Zami: A New Spelling of My Name discussed her refusal to wear a silicone breast after treatment in her Cancer Journals.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]):
    This poet's "Death from Cancer" is the first part of an extended elegy for his grandfather Arthur Winslow. He is better known for poems such as "For the Union Dead" and "Skunk Hour."

[B15] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Leadin: One poem in this collection ends by noting "somehow a dog has taken itself & its tail considerably away into mountains or sea or sky, leaving behind: me, wag." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream Songs [or:77 Dream Songs]):
    Name this collection which also includes the opening line "Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so."
  Part 2 (ans: John Berryman):
    The Dream Songs were written by this American Confessional poet.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This other poet wrote "I used to want to live to avoid your elegy" in "For John Berryman." He wrote "For the Union Dead" and "Skunk Hour."

[B16] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem ends with the line, "a savage servility slides by on grease." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "For the Union Dead"):
    Name this poem which describes the old South Boston Aquarium and a statue of Colonel Shaw and his black regiment. Images from this poem include a photograph of Hiroshima and "yellow dinosaur steamshovels."
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]):
    This founder of confessional poetry wrote "For the Union Dead." His other works include "Skunk Hour," the prose piece "91 Revere Street," and the collection Lord Weary's Castle.
  Part 3 (ans: "Waking in the Blue"):
    This poem from Lowell's Life Studies details his life in the "house of the 'mentally ill.'" It laments "What use is my sense of humor?" before describing mental patients such as the ex-football player Stanley and the obese Bobby.

[B17] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author took fantasy sports down a much-needed peg in his second novel, in which J. Henry Waugh loses his sense of reality as he oversees the fifty-sixth season of a baseball league where all outcomes are settled by a throw of the dice. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Coover [or Robert Lowell Coover]):
    Name this author, who wrote about Nixon's ass being emblazoned with the words "I AM A SCAMP" in lipstick and sodomized by Uncle Sam, in his farcical fictionalization of the Rosenberg execution, titled The Public Burning.
  Part 2 (ans: Brunists [accept Giovanni Bruno, the namesake ringleader]):
    This apocalyptic cult battles biker gangs and state troopers on the Day of Redemption in a 2014 novel by Coover, and coalesces around the lone survivor of a West Condon coal mining disaster in a 1966 book.
  Part 3 (ans: postmodernism [accept word forms]):
    Particularly with weird stories and novels like "The Babysitter" and Spanking the Maid, Coover put himself firmly in the canon of American authors in this tradition, characterized by self-reference, logic-defying plots, and fabulation. Famous writers of this kind of fiction include John Barth and David Foster Wallace.

[B18] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In one poem, this poet of "The House of the Customs Officer" described how other authors "walk only among plants / of unfamiliar name" but he prefers to be "among trunks of the lemon trees". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eugenio Montale):
    Identify this Nobel-winning Italian poet of Cuttlefish Bones.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence "Cal" Lowell IV]):
    Montale's poem "Arsenio" was translated into English by this American Confessional poet of the collections Lord Weary's Castle and For the Union Dead.
  Part 3 (ans: a mouse [or mice]):
    Dora Markus, the title figure of one of Montale's poems, owns a charm of one of these animals made from ivory. Giacomo Leopardi riffed on a Greek work about these creatures and frogs in an account of their war with the crabs.

[B19] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem imagines the Grand Tours undertaken by "long-haired Victorian sages... breezing on their trust funds through the world," and notes in its frst stanza that "life changed to landscape." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Beyond the Alps"):
    Name this poem that symbolizes the dissolution of the author's Catholic faith as a train ride away from Rome undertaken by the speaker, who observes "Paris, our black classic, breaking up / like killer kings on an Etruscan cup."
  Part 2 (ans: Life Studies):
    A heavily-revised version of "Beyond the Alps" is the frst poem in this Pulitzer-Prize-winning, 1960 collection, which includes the long prose memoir "91 Revere Street" and poems about the author's mental illness, such as "Home Afer Three Months Away" and "Waking in the Blue."
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence "Cal" Lowell IV; prompt on "Lowell"]):
    This author of Life Studies, and scion of an illustrious American poetic family, declared "I myself am hell" in "Skunk Hour," and honored a monument to Robert Gould Shaw in "For the Union Dead."

[B20] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author won the Pulitzer Prize for Live or Die, which contained poems like "And One for My Dame." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anne Sexton):
    Name this poet of collections like To Bedlam and Partway Back and The Awful Rowing Toward God.
  Part 2 (ans: "Her Kind" [according to Wikipedia, also the name of Anne Sexton's jazz-rock group]):
    This Anne Sexton poem from To Bedlam and Partway Back opens, "I have gone out, a possessed witch." It is divided into three stanzas comparing the speaker to a witch, a crazy woman in a cave, and a woman persecuted for religion.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell IV):
    This fellow Confessional poet wrote "Beyond the Alps" in Life Studies, which includes a poem about creatures "that search in the moonlight for a bite to eat" titled "Skunk Hour."

[B21] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem begins with Anne sitting in the garden that also holds the grave of her husband Harry and consists primarily of Anne's reminiscences, including the time Harry tried to choke her after she had a nightmare, thinking that the words she spoke in her sleep indicated a lover. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mills of the Kavannaughs ):
    Identify this poem, which also gives its name to a collection containing it as well as the poems "Falling Asleep over the Aeneid," and "Her Dead Brother."
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell ):
    The Mills of the Kavannaughs was written by this poet whose other collections include Lord Weary's Castle.
  Part 3 (ans: Franz Werfel):
    The Mills of the Kavannaughs also contains a poem titled "The Fat Man in the Mirror," written in imitation of this Austrian poet and novelist of The Forty Days of Musa Dagh.

[B22] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "The old South Boston Aquarium stands / in a Sahara of snow now. Its broken windows are boarded." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    These lines open the title poem of For the Union Dead, a 1964 collection by what American poet?
  Part 2 (ans: Allen Tate):
    The title of Lowell's poem evokes the 1928 "Ode to the Confederate Dead" by this southern poet, who also wrote biographies of Stonewall Jackson and Jefferson Davis.
  Part 3 (ans: "Jonathan Edwards in Western Massachusetts"):
    This other poem in Lowell's For the Union Dead discusses the legacy of a Great Awakening preacher in the inland portion of Lowell's home state, where he "thought the world would end."

[B23] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's poems takes its epigraph, "the withness of the body," from the writings of his teacher Alfred North Whitehead. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this writer who described the "hungry beating brutish one / In love with candy, anger, and sleep" in "The Heavy Bear Who Goes With Me." He was the basis for the title character of Humboldt's Gift, written by Saul Bellow, who will appear eight times in this packet.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet remembers when he and Schwartz "drank and eyed / the chicken-hearted shadows of the world" in "To Delmore Schwartz." That poem was published in this man's collection Life Studies, which also contains everyone's favorite poem "Skunk Hour."
  Part 3 (ans: "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities"):
    Schwartz also wrote this short story in which the narrator dreams that he is seeing a film about his parents' courtship. It takes its title from the epigraph to a book of poetry by W. B. Yeats.
