Fetching text mentions: 'Brokeback Mountain'
  Fetching 'Brokeback Mountain' (type=question, diff=[5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10], year>=2012)...
    Got 4 tossups (of 4), 9 bonuses (of 9)
Cached to cache/brokeback_mountain_d5_6_7_8_9_10_y2012_mentions.json

Clue output saved to output/brokeback_mountain_mentions_clues.txt
(12605 characters, ~3151 tokens)

=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Brokeback Mountain ===
(Questions where 'Brokeback Mountain' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 4 found, 22 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2025 Absolute Cinema (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Roderick [or Rodrigo; accept Rodrigo D: No Futuro or Rodrigo D: No Future; accept Rodrigo Prieto; accept Rodrigo Garcia; accept Roderick Jaynes] (Rodrigo Garcia is Gabriel Garcia Marquez's son.)
  - Note to players: The answer is a first name with counterparts across languages, like "Peter," "Pierre," and "Pedro;" you may give any variation of the name in the languages used in the films.This is the first name of a punk teenager who, in a 1990 crime film set in Medellin, is said by the title to 
  - This is the first name of the director of hyperlink films like Nine Lives, who is Claudia Sheinbaum's brother-in-law and the son of a Nobel-winning author.
  - The DOP of Lust, Caution and 8 Mile shares this first name with the (*) pseudonym used for editing jobs by the Coen brothers.
  - A cinematographer with this first name shot films like Silence and Brokeback Mountain as part of his collaborations with Ang Lee and Martin Scorsese after breaking through in his native country with Amores perros.
  - For 10 points, the Mexican cinematographer who shot Barbie has what first name and the surname Prieto?

[TM2] 2021 TELEOLOGY (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: crying [accept weeping, sobbing, or other synonyms]
  - William H.
  - Frey made a scientific discovery about this activity using screenings of the film Brian's Song.
  - A seven-minute shot of May Lin performing this activity in a park ends Tsai Ming-Liang's film Vive L'Amour.
  - A song titled for this action plays as Bunny Boy makes out with twin teenage girls in an above-ground pool in the pouring rain in a scene from Gummo.
  - Wes Craven and Drew Barrymore developed a collaborative technique involving a (*) dog to help perform this action during the filming of Scream.
  - Jack Nicholson performs this action upon receiving a drawing from the Tanzanian boy Ndulu in About Schmidt.
  - Sean Penn's character laments his inability to do this action while doing it on a porch in a scene from Mystic River.
  - Ennis clutches Jack's old jacket in a closet and performs this action in the final scene of Brokeback Mountain.
  - For 10 points, give this physiological reaction that may have to be induced for actors delivering an emotional scene.

[TM3] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Annie Proulx
  - One book by this author describes a recent trend among prisoners of stripping nude in the courtroom.
  - A couple in that novel by this author has their suicide message to their son cut off by an answering machine, and the husband's ashes are thrown into an outhouse by his sister, whom he raped.
  - In that book by this author, which contains excerpts from The Ashley Book of Knots, Jack Buggit tells the protagonist to put a car wreck on the front page of the newspaper every day whether one happens or not, and miraculously returns to life after drowning.
  - This author who described (*) Quoyle's return to Newfoundland wrote a story about two men who never talk about or during sex, due to the taboos about homosexuality in the West.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Shipping News who wrote about Jack Twist and Ennis del Mar in "Brokeback Mountain."

[TM4] 2015 Delta Burke (2015) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Wyoming
  - Despite its title, this state is actually the setting of novel that fictionalizes the Johnson County War and includes the line "When you call me that, smile!" Annie Proulx's [proo's] collection Close Range is subtitled for this state, in which she sets the short story "Brokeback Mountain." The title
  - In Kerouac's On the Road, Sal Paradise spends a night at the Wild West Days celebration in this state.
  - FTP what is this western state provides the setting for a play featuring performances of interviews and other stories about the murder of Matthew Shepard, The Laramie Project?

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer won the 1970 Pulitzer Prize in Music for a piece for synthesized and processed synthesized sound that its composer said "depends on the absolute, not the seeming, length of events and sections." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Peter Wuorinen):
    Name this composer of Time's Encomium, as well as an opera based on Annie Proulx's Brokeback Mountain. This composer's fractal-inspired music includes pieces such as Bamboula Squared.
  Part 2 (ans: oratorio):
    A two-minute electronic tape part features in Wuorinen's The Celestial Sphere, which is in this genre. Earlier pieces in this genre include Saul, Solomon, and one with the line "And he shall reign forever and ever."
  Part 3 (ans: Philadelphia Orchestra):
    Wuorinen was a finalist for the 1994 Pulitzer for his Microsymphony, commissioned by this orchestra. This member of the "Big Five" orchestras premiered Rachmaninoff's Symphonic Dances under longtime director Eugene Ormandy.

[BM2] 2024 ACF Fall (2024) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: A Seth Grahame-Smith novel based on this author's works was adapted into a movie in which Mr Wickham forms an army out of zombies who feed on pig brains. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jane Austen):
    Name this author, whose novels inspired movies such as Pride and Prejudice and Zombies.
  Part 2 (ans: Clueless):
    This movie directed by Amy Heckerling is a loose adaptation of Austen's novel Emma. In this movie, Cher Horowitz's newfound love for doing good deeds leads her to give Tai Frasier a makeover.
  Part 3 (ans: Ang Lee):
    This director had a major commercial success with a 1995 adaptation of Sense and Sensibility. This director later depicted the homosexual relationship between two cowboys in the film Brokeback Mountain.

[BM3] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: One story by this author opens "on the front porch at Frank Martin's drying-out facility" and describes J.P., a drunk who is "also a chimney sweep." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Raymond Carver [or Raymond Clevie Carver Jr.]):
    Name this American author of the short story "Where I'm Calling From," which appears in his collection Cathedral.
  Part 2 (ans: visually impaired [or blindness; accept answers like glaucoma or word forms for visual impairment]):
    Robert, a character in the title story of Raymond Carver's Cathedral, has this trait. Late in life, John Milton dictated his writing to his daughters because he suffered from this affliction.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Proulx ("PRU") [or Edna Ann Proulx; or E. A. Proulx]):
    Like Carver, this author was a guest editor of an edition of The Best American Short Stories. Cowboys Ennis del Mar and Jack Twist develop a gay relationship in this author's story "Brokeback Mountain."

[BM4] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: Answer the following about one of the most prestigious awards in the film industry: the MTV Movie Award for Best Kiss. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heath Ledger):
    This actor won the 2006 award for his kiss with Jake Gyllenhaal in the cowboy romance Brokeback Mountain. He won a posthumous Oscar for playing the Joker in The Dark Knight.
  Part 2 (ans: To All the Boys I've Loved Before):
    The 2019 award went to Lana Condor and Noah Centineo for their kiss in this romantic comedy about Lara Jean, whose secret letters confessing her love to her crushes are mailed out by her sister.
  Part 3 (ans: My Girl):
    The first-ever award went to Anna Chlumsky and a pre-Home Alone Macaulay Culkin for this 1991 film, in which Culkin's character dies from an allergic reaction caused by bee stings.

[BM5] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, a butterfly lands on the coffin of Rufus's father, who dies in this manner soon after Rufus's great-aunt buys Rufus a cap. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dying in a car accident [accept car crash or automotive accident in place of "car accident"; prompt on dying in a collision or crash or accident by asking "involving what objects?"; do not accept "airplane crash" or "train crash"] (The novel is Crash.)):
    Name this manner in which Jay Follett dies in James Agee's novel A Death in the Family. In a J. G. Ballard novel, Dr. Robert Vaughan oversees a group of people who are sexually aroused by dying in this manner.
  Part 2 (ans: The Great Gatsby):
    In this F. Scott Fitzgerald novel, Daisy Buchanan strikes and kills Myrtle Wilson while driving a car owned by the title character.
  Part 3 (ans: E. Annie Proulx ("proo") [or Edna Annie Proulx]):
    In this author's novel The Shipping News, Quoyle's newspaper articles cover fabricated car accidents. This author wrote about the relationship between two young men on a Wyoming sheep farm in "Brokeback Mountain."

[BM6] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After his parents both commit suicide in this book, Quoyle's wife Petal tries to sell their daughters to sex-traffickers, before she is killed in a car accident. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Shipping News):
    Name this book in which Quoyle returns to his aunt's house in Killick-Claw and becomes a reporter for the Gammy Bird.
  Part 2 (ans: Brokeback Mountain):
    The author of The Shipping News also wrote this short story in which rancher Ennis del Mar and rodeo cowboy Jack Twist conduct a clandestine romance sparked while herding sheep in Wyoming.
  Part 3 (ans: (Edna) Annie Proulx):
    Brokeback Mountain and The Shipping News are by this American author of Accordion Crimes, a novel about an accordion maker who is shot, and the subsequent journey of his accordion.

[BM7] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director's maxim was "one scene, one [take]." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mizoguchi Kenji [accept names in either order]):
    Name this director of The Story of the Last Chrysanthemums. In his most famous film, from 1953, a rural potter's wife is killed while he is being seduced by the ghost of a noblewoman.
  Part 2 (ans: Venice [or Venezia]):
    That film, Ugetsu, won the Silver Lion at the Film Festival in this European city. In 2005, this city's film festival awarded the Golden Lion to Brokeback Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: samurai [or ronin; accept The Forty-Seven Ronin or Genroku Chushingura; accept Seven Samurai or Shichinin no Samurai]):
    During the war, Mizoguchi was press-ganged into making a two-part film about a group of forty-seven of these people. Toshiro Mifune starred in a Kurosawa movie titled for seven of these people.

[BM8] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A director from this country cast more than a hundred amateur actors in a movie about a murder on Guling Street, and depicted the life of a family led by NJ in another movie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taiwan [or Republic of China; don't accept just "China"]):
    Name this setting of A Brighter Summer Day and Yi Yi. A director from this country made A City of Sadness and The Assassin, which was screened at Cannes in 2015.
  Part 2 (ans: Brokeback Mountain):
    Another Taiwanese director besides Edward Yang and Hou Hsiao-Hsien is Ang Lee, who adapted this film about the relationship between two cowboys in Wyoming from an Annie Proulx story.
  Part 3 (ans: Crash):
    Inexplicably, Brokeback Mountain lost the 2005 Best Picture Oscar to this film about racial tensions in Los Angeles. David Cronenberg adapted a J. G. Ballard novel of the same name.

[BM9] 2013 Delta Burke (2013) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: Annie Proulx's [proo's] novella Brokeback Mountain examines a homosexual relationship between men who fit this description. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cowboy):
    What American archetypal profession actually names a character contrasted with the "Easterner" Mr. Blanc in the short story "The Blue Hotel"?
  Part 2 (ans: O. Henry (or William Sydney Porter-as if!)):
    Heart of the West is a collection of cowboy stories by this American who also wrote "The Gift of the Magi" and "The Ransom of Red Chief."
  Part 3 (ans: hair):
    The sentimental irony of "The Gift of the Magi" comes from Della Dillingham's elimination of this aspect of her beauty in order to get the money to buy her husband a watch fob.

