Fetching topic: 'Brokeback Mountain'
  Fetching 'Brokeback Mountain' (type=answer, diff=[7, 8, 9, 10], year>=2012)...
    Got 1 tossups (of 1), 7 bonuses (of 7)
Cached to cache/brokeback_mountain_d7_8_9_10_y2012.json

Clue output saved to output/brokeback_mountain_clues.txt
(7874 characters, ~1968 tokens)

=== STOCK CLUES: Brokeback Mountain ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: "Brokeback Mountain"
  - This story's final line notes an "open space" between what a man "knew" and "tried to believe" that "nothing could be done about." A man in this story pins a postcard to a blood-stained shirt in honor of a character he thinks was killed with a tire iron.
  - After discussing leaving for Mexico, a man in this story says "I wish I knew how to quit you." In this story, Alma Beers divorces her husband after noticing that he doesn't use his pole on fishing trips. [PWR]
  - As teenagers, this story's protagonists work for Joe (*) Aguirre at the title location, where they take turns cooking meals and herding sheep.
  - Larry McMurty won an Academy Award for co-writing a film adaptation of this story, which is collected in 1999's Close Range: Wyoming Stories.
  - For 10 points, name this story by Annie Proulx about Jack Twist and Ennis del Mar's homosexual love affair, which was adapted into an Ang Lee film. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: After moving to Washington D.C., this author started Booked Up, one of the largest antique book stores in the U.S. with over 400,000 volumes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Larry McMurtry (The novel is The Last Picture Show.)):
    Name this author whose set of "Reflections at Sixty" is titled Walter Benjamin at the Dairy Queen. In one of this author's novels, the film The Kid from Texas is the final movie to play at the local cinema.
  Part 2 (ans: "Brokeback Mountain"):
    McMurtry and Diana Ossana wrote the film adaptation of this story by Annie Proulx, in which the cowboy Ennis del Mar dreams about his romance with Jack Twist. It was adapted into a 2005 feature film.
  Part 3 (ans: Lonesome Dove):
    McMurtry's best-known book is this Pulitzer-winning novel, in which Woodrow Call brings Gus McCrae's body back to Texas for burial after the two lead a cattle drive into Montana.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the beginning of a film set in this country, two policewomen let a young mother leave a baby behind in a baby box, only for a pair of men to take it to sell in the adoption black market. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: South Korea [or Republic of Korea; prompt on Korea]):
    Name this country of Broker and a movie in which a migrant becomes entangled with a suspect in the murder of her husband, an immigration officer.
  Part 2 (ans: Ang Lee):
    Tang Wei, the star of Decision to Leave, debuted in a movie by this director titled Lust, Caution. The sword Green Destiny is stolen in a martial arts movie by this director that was a breakout hit in the U.S.
  Part 3 (ans: mountain [or Brokeback Mountain]):
    In Decision to Leave, the detective listens to a Mahler symphony while investigating a murder in one of these places. One of these places titles a movie about two gay cowboys by Ang Lee.

[B3] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a 1992 article, B. Ruby Rich coined the term for a "new" type of cinema described by this adjective, citing such recent films as My Own Private Idaho as examples. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: queer [or queering; accept New Queer Cinema; accept Flaming Classics: Queering the Film Canon]):
    Give this adjective. Its verb form appears in the title of a 2000 Alexander Doty book titled for "Flaming Classics" of the film canon.
  Part 2 (ans: Paris is Burning):
    Rich credits this 1990 documentary by Jeannie Livingston with introducing a wide popular audience to queer cinema. This film explores New York City drag culture through a competition held by the title artist, surnamed Dupree.
  Part 3 (ans: Brokeback Mountain):
    Rich later identified this 2005 Ang Lee film as changing the direction of New Queer Cinema. It follows the relationship between two cattle herders in 1960s Wyoming.

[B4] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: British author Alexandra Fuller, who now lives in a yurt in this US state, wrote of her childhood spent on a farm during the Rhodesian Bush War in her memoir Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wyoming):
    Name this US state that is the setting of the short stories "Job History" and "55 Miles to the Gas Pump," a retelling of the Bluebeard tale. Both of those stories are contained in the collection Close Range.
  Part 2 (ans: E. Annie Proulx ("proo") (The story is "Brokeback Mountain.")):
    Close Range is a collection by this American author, who also wrote a story in which Ennis del Mar and Jack Twist fall in love while herding sheep near the title Wyoming landform.
  Part 3 (ans: Western novels):
    A Wyoming ranch hand is the protagonist of The Virginian, a novel by Owen Wister often considered the first example of a novel in this genre also strongly associated with Zane Grey.

[B5] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "Poems for" this person, including W.S. Merwin's "The Fence," make up the anthology Blood & Tears. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Matthew Shepard [prompt on Matt; prompt on Matthew]):
    Name this man. Fred Phelps and followers picket this man's funeral in a verbatim theater piece by the Tectonic Theater Project's Moises Kaufman.
  Part 2 (ans: Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes):
    In the Tectonic Theater Project's The Laramie Project, Jedidiah Schulz decides to perform a monologue from this play despite his parent's disapproval. Louis Ironson learns of his lover Prior Walter's AIDS diagnosis near the beginning of this Tony Kushner play.
  Part 3 (ans: "Brokeback Mountain"):
    This Annie Proulx story, also set in Wyoming, was published a year before the murder of Matthew Shepard. In this story, Jack Twist and Ennis del Mar have a homosexual affair while working as cowboys.

[B6] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After his parents both commit suicide in this book, Quoyle's wife Petal tries to sell their daughters to sex-traffickers, before she is killed in a car accident. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Shipping News):
    Name this book in which Quoyle returns to his aunt's house in Killick-Claw and becomes a reporter for the Gammy Bird.
  Part 2 (ans: Brokeback Mountain):
    The author of The Shipping News also wrote this short story in which rancher Ennis del Mar and rodeo cowboy Jack Twist conduct a clandestine romance sparked while herding sheep in Wyoming.
  Part 3 (ans: (Edna) Annie Proulx):
    Brokeback Mountain and The Shipping News are by this American author of Accordion Crimes, a novel about an accordion maker who is shot, and the subsequent journey of his accordion.

[B7] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A director from this country cast more than a hundred amateur actors in a movie about a murder on Guling Street, and depicted the life of a family led by NJ in another movie. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taiwan [or Republic of China; don't accept just "China"]):
    Name this setting of A Brighter Summer Day and Yi Yi. A director from this country made A City of Sadness and The Assassin, which was screened at Cannes in 2015.
  Part 2 (ans: Brokeback Mountain):
    Another Taiwanese director besides Edward Yang and Hou Hsiao-Hsien is Ang Lee, who adapted this film about the relationship between two cowboys in Wyoming from an Annie Proulx story.
  Part 3 (ans: Crash):
    Inexplicably, Brokeback Mountain lost the 2005 Best Picture Oscar to this film about racial tensions in Los Angeles. David Cronenberg adapted a J. G. Ballard novel of the same name.

