=== STOCK CLUES: Kublai Khan ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 24 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Kublai Khan [or Kubilai Khan; or Yuan Shizu]
  - A set of handscrolls illustrating this ruler's armies in battle shows the use of "thunder crash bombs," an early form of explosive shell launched from catapults.
  - To overcome a fear of this ruler, a leader consulted his religious adviser, Mugaku Sogen (moo-GAH-koo SOH-gen), who urged the leader to scream "victory" until his fear subsided.
  - This ruler's fleet was defeated at the Battle of Bach Dang ("botch" dahng) by the Tran dynasty, which later joined with the Champa kingdoms in accepting this man's supremacy over Vietnam.
  - After annexing the Goryeo Kingdom, this ruler used Korean shipbuilders to prepare for an invasion spurred by Hojo Tokimune's (toh-kee-MOO-nay's) impudence.
  - His fleets were twice destroyed by typhoons referred to as "divine wind." Two failed invasions of Japan were ordered by, for 10 points, what first emperor of the Yuan dynasty? [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: the Toluid Civil War [accept any mention of conflict between Kublai Khan and Ariq Boke; or the sons of Tolui, accept Yuan Shizu in place of "Kublai Khan"]
  - Descriptive answer acceptable.
  - At the conclusion of this conflict, the winning commander ordered Liu Bingzhong to build a new capital at Yanjing.
  - In order to garner support from the local populace, the winner in this conflict styled himself as Zhongtong, or the "moderate ruler," and promised to reduce taxes.
  - After losing a battle at Shimultai, the losing side was betrayed by their ally Alghu, who slaughtered the tax collectors sent to his camp.
  - Subsequent to this conflict, the winner was bogged down in a decades-long war with his nephew Kaidu.
  - At the outset of this conflict, the two sides declared rival kurultais in Kaiping and Karakorum.
  - The western khanates were prevented from interfering in it by the war between Berke and Hulagu.
  - This 1260 to 1264 war was precipitated by the sudden death of Mongke Khan without heirs.
  - For 10 points, name this civil war between the first Yuan Emperor and his youngest brother, a conflict often named for their father. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Kublai Khan [or Khubilai Khan; or Yuan Shizu]
  - After this ruler was told that a minister kept human skins in his closet, he ordered the corpse of that man, Ahmad Fanakati, thrown to dogs.
  - This ruler divided his people into four castes, one of which consisted of foreigners called semu.
  - The creation of the Phags-pa script was commissioned by this ruler, whose naval forces were outnumbered ten to one off the coast of Guangdong but still managed to win the Battle of Yamen.
  - Rustichello da Pisa was dictated a narrative of the empire of this ruler, whose garden at Shangdu was called Xanadu by Europeans.
  - For 10 points, name this first ruler of the Yuan dynasty, a grandson of Genghis Khan who was visited by Marco Polo. [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: the Mongol conquest of China [or the establishment of the Yuan Dynasty; or Kublai Khan's conquest of China before it is read; or the Mongol conquest of Jin before "Bayan" is read; or equivalents to any]
  - An attempt to form an alliance against this campaign was made with the warning "when the lips are gone, the teeth will feel the cold." During this campaign, Yelu Chucai advised mercy and was appointed head of the Central Secretariat. [PWR]
  - This campaign was completed by the general Bayan, and it caused the one-day rule of Modi following the suicide of (*) Aizong. [PWR]
  - The naval battle of Jiaoshan occurred during this campaign, shortly before the regent Xie took power following the death of Duzong.
  - The Battle of Yaishan successfully concluded this campaign in 1279.
  - For 10 points, name this initiative under which Xi Xia, Jin, and finally the Song lands themselves were all subsumed to the rule of Kublai Khan. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Original language term required. The holding of two of these events, one held at Kaiping and the other organized by Ariq Boke, led to the Toluid Civil War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kurultai [or qurultai]):
    Name these events, which required commanders like Muqali to pause campaigns and travel hundreds of miles to attend to elect a new Mongol Khan.
  Part 2 (ans: Kublai Khan [or Setsen Khan; accept Emperor Shizu of Yuan]):
    The kurultai at Kaiping chose this man, who won the Toluid Civil War but lost control of most of the Mongol Empire. This man also founded the Yuan dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Mongolian wrestling [or bokh]):
    Besides elections, the kurultai included demonstrations of this activity, in which the Chagatai royal Khutulun was an expert. According to the Secret History, Buri Boko and Belgutei were experts in this activity.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a book titled for one of these two figures, he recounts that the other of these figures spritzed copies of the Four Gospels with incense before kissing them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marco Polo and Kublai Khan [accept answers in either order; prompt on Khan]):
    Name these two historical figures. In a novel, a fictional version of one of these figures regales the other with stories about locations like Diomira, sorted into categories such as "Thin," "Dead," "Continuous," and "Hidden."
  Part 2 (ans: Italo Calvino):
    The embellishments made to Marco Polo's encounters with Kublai Khan inspired this author's novel Invisible Cities, framed as a dialogue between the two.
  Part 3 (ans: Rustichello da Pisa [or Rustichello of Pisa; or Rusticiano]):
    While they were imprisoned together in Genoa, this Pisan author jazzed up Marco Polo's story with language plucked from his own Arthurian romance, fittingly titled Roman de Roi Artus.

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: These people's namesake states included Moyang and Mongyang. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Shan peoples [or Shan states or Shan confederacy; prompt on Burmese]):
    Name these people whose confederacy conquered Ava in 1527 and Prom in 1533 under the leadership of their chaopha Sawlon. Their rule was ended by their conquest by Bayinnaung.
  Part 2 (ans: Kublai Khan):
    The Shan peoples gained much autonomy after the conquest of Pagan by this leader. This ruler's attempted invasions of Japan resulted in the destruction of his fleet twice by typhoons, or kamikaze.
  Part 3 (ans: opium):
    Several Shan separatist groups during the 1960s specialized in the production of this good to fund the struggle against the Burmese government. Britain forcibly opened Chinese trade during two wars named for this narcotic.

[B4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Chinese term required. Tang forerunners of these people, who ran "loose-rein" prefectures, included a family that ruled Bozhou ("bo-jo") from Hailongtun ("hye-lohng-twun") Fortress for over 300 years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tusi ("too-sih") [or tusi zhidu, t'u-szu, tho ty, or thovu su; accept jimi system, chi-mi, jimi zhi, or jimi fuzhou; accept Tujia people or Tu-chia people; accept Tusi sites or Tusi Yizhi; accept "gai tu gui liu"]):
    Name these hereditary indirect rulers appointed to govern minorities like Mong Mao's Shan. Their rule was gradually replaced by autonomous prefectures for the Dai ("dye"), Yi, Miao ("mee-ow"), and an ethnic group of the same name.
  Part 2 (ans: Kublai Khan [or Kubilai Khan or Qubilai Khan or Hubilie Han; or Shizu of Yuan]):
    Yunnan's ("yoon-nahn's") Dali ("dah-lee") Kingdom was converted into a tusi ("too-sih") chiefdom by this first Yuan ("yoo-en") emperor, whose four-class caste system placed Han Chinese people below Mongols.
  Part 3 (ans: Chagatai Khanate [or Chagatai Ulus or Cagadai ("TSAH-gah-dye") Ulus; or Chagatayids; accept Eastern Chagatai Khanate or Dong Chagetai Hanguo]):
    Kublai's Semu ("suh-moo") caste included Buddhist Uyghurs from Qocho, who were Islamized by this state's khan Khizr Khoja. Turpan's Uyghurs built chunche raisin sheds after this Mongol khanate split into Moghulistan and Transoxiana.

[B5] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This city was the capital of an empire most notably led by King Anawrahta. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pagan [buh-GAHN] [accept Bagan]):
    Name this city, the capital of a state ruled by the Pyu people. Its hegemony was succeeded by the Hanthawaddy Kingdom.
  Part 2 (ans: umbrellas [accept parasols, hti]):
    The hundreds of pagodas in Pagan are topped with metal ornaments meant to mimic these objects, one of which also tops the Shwedagon Pagoda. These objects are referred to as chhatra in Hinduism and also name a royal title adopted by rulers of the Maratha confederacy, including Shivaji.
  Part 3 (ans: Kublai Khan):
    The Pagan Kingdom fell due to instability after an invasion by this founder of China's Yuan Dynasty, a Mongol ruler who was the grandson of Genghis Khan.

[B6] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: An architect of this medieval kingdom's success vowed to never eat fruit or spices until he had unified his nation's archipelago. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Majapahit Empire):
    Name this kingdom eventually eclipsed by its core region's first major Muslim state, the Demak Sultanate. Led at its height by Gajah Mada and Hayam Wuruk, it warred with local powers like the Sunda and Srivijaya.
  Part 2 (ans: Java [insanely generously prompt on Indonesia]):
    The Majapahit were based on this island, the centre of resistance movements led by men like Prince Dipanegara, Mohammad Hatta, and Sukarno against a colonial regime based at Batavia.
  Part 3 (ans: Kublai Khan):
    Raden Wijaya laid the foundations of the Majapahit in 1293 by double-crossing and repulsing an expedition to Java sent by this Mongol ruler, first emperor of the Yuan dynasty, and acquaintance of Marco Polo.

[B7] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man wrote a "Chart of Successive Years" entitled Liniantu before writing a major work that spans sixteen dynasties. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sima Guang [prompt on partial answer; in particular, do not accept "Sima Qian"]):
    Name this Chinese historian whose major work was created for Yingzong and Shenzong. He wrote a number of "memorials" against the Baojia plan.
  Part 2 (ans: Song Dynasty):
    Sima Guang's conservative faction resisted the reforms of Wang Anshi during this Chinese dynasty, which was founded by Taizu in 960 AD.
  Part 3 (ans: Kublai Khan [or Shizu]):
    At the 1273 Battle of Xiangyang, the Southern Song under Lu Wenhuan surrendered to this man. This grandson of Genghis founded the Yuan dynasty.

[B8] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: During one of these events, soldiers fought on and around large walls at Iki-no-matsubara, and before these events a letter was sent addressed to the "ruler of a small country." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mongol invasions of Japan [or Yuan invasions of Japan; or Kublai Khan's invasions of Japan; accept equivalents for invasion like "attack"; prompt on "Chinese invasion of Japan"; prompt on "invasions of Japan"]):
    Name these events chronicled by Suenaga, the second of which was repelled by a fleet-crushing "divine wind."
  Part 2 (ans: Kublai Khan [or Khublai Khan; or Shizu]):
    Those Mongol invasions were ordered by this grandson of Genghis and brother of Mongke who won the Battle of Yamen and founded the Yuan Dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: White Lotus Society):
    The Yuan Dynasty was overthrown thanks to the efforts of the Red Turban Rebellion and this "society" that venerated the mother goddess Wusheng Laomu.

[B9] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following questions about the Pagan Kingdom of medieval Burma, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Anawrahta Minsaw):
    This first great Burmese leader made Pagan his capital and united the Irrawaddy river valley. He converted to Theravada Buddhism under the guidance of the monk missionary Shin Arahan.
  Part 2 (ans: Sri Lanka [or Ceylon]):
    The Pagan kingdom's extensive missionary activity included helping re-establish the Buddhist tradition in this island, which had been conquered by the Chola dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Khubilai Khan [or Kublai Khan; or Yuan Shizu]):
    The Pagan kingdom's demise was brought about by an expedition ordered by this Mongol ruler, who had other foreign ambitions stymied by kamikaze winds. His court at Shangdu was visited by Marco Polo.

[B10] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: After this man's former ally Ashikaga Takeuji turned against him and exiled him from Kyoto, this man established a court at Yoshino. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Emperor Go-Daigo [or Late Emperor Daigo; or Daigo II]):
    Name this man who had earlier become emperor of Japan as a part of the Kenmu restoration.
  Part 2 (ans: Kamakura shogunate [accept "bakufu" instead of "shogunate"]):
    In the Kenmu restoration, Go-Daigo had usurped power from this shogunate. It was ruled by the Minamoto and Hojo families.
  Part 3 (ans: Kublai Khan [or Qubilai; or Shizu]):
    During the rule of the Kamakura shogunate, this man attempted to invade Japan. His attempts were futile, though, as his forces lost to the kamikaze winds more than anything.

[B11] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Genghis Khan had quite a family tree. For 10 points each, name some of his kin.
  Part 1 (ans: Kublai Khan [accept Shizu]):
    This emperor of China was the son of the Genghis's youngest son Toului. He attempted to invade Japan twice and had a summer palace at Xanadu.
  Part 2 (ans: Ogedei Khan):
    Genghis originally named this third son as his successor. He defeated the Jin empire to complete the conquest of China and expanded west as far as India.
  Part 3 (ans: Borte):
    Ogedei's mother was this Grand Empress of the Mongol empire. Her abduction by the Merkit tribe was rumored to have inspired Genghis' love for conquest.
