=== STOCK CLUES: Thatcher ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 40 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 35 found, 105 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Roberts Thatcher]
  - This politician won an election against a candidate who formed a "pact" with David Steel and declared intent in a manifesto to "improve industrial relations that we have hammered out with the TUC." A poster designed to support this person's election showed a long unemployment line with text saying another party "wasn't working." The defeat of the first Scottish devolution referendum led to the vote of no confidence against James Callaghan  that triggered this person's election.
  - The Winter of Discontent helped secure the election of this person, who remained in office for eleven years and was succeeded by John Major.
  - For 10 points, name this woman who became prime minister in a 1979 Conservative victory in the U.K. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher; accept Margaret Roberts]
  - The first of two Housing Acts passed under this leader introduced assured shorthold tenancy. [PWR]
  - Municipal policies of this leader, like the abolition of MCCs outlined in the white paper "Streamlining the Cities," led local governments to organize the "rate-capping rebellion." A policy introduced by this leader caused the Militant tendency to organize "the Fed," which embraced the slogan "can't pay, won't pay." Under this leader, schools began to be regulated through the anti-LGBT (*) Section 28 of the Local Government Act, which abolished a Greater Council led by "Red" Ken Livingstone. [PWR]
  - This leader was ousted after the intense backlash over the flat Community Charge, derisively called the "poll tax.".
  - For 10 points, name this Prime Minister of the U.K. who passed neoliberal reforms following the "Winter of Discontent" of 1979? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Margaret Thatcher [Margaret Hilda Thatcher]
  - A memo sent to this leader in the aftermath of the Broadwater Farm riot blamed it on "bad moral attitudes" instead of racism.
  - John Shiers led a protest of 25,000 people in opposition to this leader's anti-LGBT law Section 28.
  - This leader's government commissioned the Scarman Report after the Brixton riots.
  - Horse-mounted police charged into picketers at the Orgreave Coking plant during a campaign against this leader's government led by Arthur Scargill.
  - The National Union of Mineworkers went on strike to protest this prime minister's closure of coal pits.
  - The introduction of the Community Charge led to riots against this prime minister, who came to power after the Winter of Discontent.
  - For 10 points, name this Conservative Prime Minister of the UK dubbed the "Iron Lady." [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Social Science
     Answer: facial recognition [accept facial processing or recognizing faces or distinguishing faces or remembering faces or facial memory or facial perception; prompt on object recognition by asking "what objects are being recognized?"] (The editors would like to remind you that Margaret Thatcher is still dead.)
  - It's not related to language, but this faculty is one of the two canonical examples of perceptual narrowing as infants age. [PWR]
  - In a study of dog-show judges, Diamond and Carey showed that the inversion effect is not unique to this faculty. [PWR]
  - Hayden Ellis proposed that this faculty operates without an affective response in people with the Capgras delusion. [PWR]
  - Inversion strongly impairs this faculty in the (*) Thatcher effect. [PWR]
  - Nancy Kanwisher proposed that the FFA in the fusiform gyrus specializes in this faculty.
  - This faculty is affected by the other-race effect, in which people are more capable of doing it when interacting with someone of the same race.
  - The story of "Dr.
  - P" is related in an Oliver Sacks book titled for someone with a disorder of this faculty.
  - For 10 points, which faculty is impaired in prosopagnosia? [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 Bentley Contemporary Literature Packet (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: the attempted assassination of Margaret Thatcher [accept anything involving killing or shooting Margaret Thatcher]
  - In a short story collection titled for this action, Lola jealously writes "the less of her the better" about her anorexic older sister. [PWR]
  - The stories "The Heart Fails without Warning" and "Sorry to Disturb" appear in a short story collection titled for this action. [PWR]
  - In one novel, Dan is inspired to join to a plot to perform this action after his father is killed by a brick. [PWR]
  - In that same novel, Dan assumes the name of Roy Walsh and checks in at the 📚 Grand Hotel where Freya Finch works in preparation for performing this action. [PWR]
  - An attempt to perform this action is the subject of Jonathan Lee's novel, High Dive. [PWR]
  - A short story where this action takes place ends with a sniper declaring, (*) "Rejoice, fucking rejoice" and was rejected by the Daily Telegraph, despite its author having twice won the Booker for Bring Up the Bodies and Wolf Hall. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this action, successfully carried out by an IRA gunman in a Hilary Mantel short story, and almost carried out in real life during the Brighton Hotel Bombing. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; accept The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher; prompt on "Maggie" or "Margaret" before "Maggie"; prompt on the Englishwoman or the British politician before "Satanic"]
  - The narrator asks this character "do the people in your country love you?" instead of relaying an offer of tea in a scene of Javier Marias's A Heart So White that translates a conversation between a Spanish man and this person.
  - An effigy of this figure is often picked for burning at the Club Hot Wax in The Satanic Verses, in which Chamcha nicknames this person "Torture." In a short story, a character initially mistaken for the son of the boiler man Duggan enters the narrator's house to wait for this character to leave an eye surgery, then says "fucking rejoice" after killing her.
  - Nick Guest retreats to the bathroom for a threesome with his lover Wani and a waiter after dancing with this woman in Alan Hollinghurst's The Line of Beauty.
  - The title story of 2014 Hilary Mantel short story collection is about this person's fictional assassination by an IRA operative.
  - For 10 points, Jonathan Lee's novel High Dive is about an attempt to kill what woman nicknamed "Maggie" at the Brighton Hotel? [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Margaret Thatcher
  - In one story about this person, the narrator jokes that she would hate "your anorak" and "my hair"; that story ends with the assassin Duggan saying "Fucking rejoice" in an ironic echo of this woman, who titles a recent short story collection by Hilary Mantel. [PWR]
  - While at a party hosted by the Feddens, this woman is invited to dance by a coke-addled Nick Guest in The Line of Beauty. [PWR]
  - This woman is sarcastically wished "Merry Christmas" at the beginning of Act II of the musical Billy Elliot, and Billy's father is later attacked for being a (*) scab during a coal miner's strike.
  - Leslie Knope whispers, "Oh President Reagan, my blazer popped open" during sexy historical role play while pretending to be this woman, who claimed to have lost trust in Reagan after his invasion of Grenada.
  - For 10 points, name this late Prime Minister of England known as the Iron Lady. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this play tells her sister that "I hate the working class" because "it doesn't exist any more, it means lazy and stupid." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Top Girls):
    Name this play in which the protagonist is told she would "have liked Hitler if he was a woman." This Caryl Churchill play opens with an all-woman dinner party to celebrate the protagonist's promotion at the title agency.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Hilda Thatcher [or Baroness Thatcher]):
    Top Girls explores the influence of this politician on feminism through the career-oriented and conservative Marlene. Marlene says that the eighties will be "stupendous" thanks to this first female prime minister of the UK.
  Part 3 (ans: Pope Joan OR Patient Griselda):
    Isabella Bird, Lady Nijo, and Dull Gret are the first three out of five women from history and folklore to arrive at the dinner party that begins Top Girls. Name either of the last two women to arrive.

[B2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The cab drivers Mansha and Raf argue over this person's death in Ishy Din's play Approaching Empty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; or Margaret Roberts; accept "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher"]):
    Name this person. The narrator becomes complicit in the replacement boilerman's plot to kill this person in a Hilary Mantel story.
  Part 2 (ans: Top Girls (by Caryl Churchill)):
    In this play, Joyce says her Thatcher-liking sister would have "liked Hitler if he was a woman." Angie's question of "Mum?" near the end of this play is met with "No... it's Aunty" by her biological mother.
  Part 3 (ans: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]):
    Unlike most of his contemporaries, this playwright admired Thatcher's policies, causing controversy. He wrote the absurdist play Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.

[B3] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The Sun published a headline asking "Crisis? What Crisis?" during this period, which coincided with a lorry driver's strike and unusually cold weather. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Winter of Discontent [reject "Winter of our Discontent"]):
    Name this period of strike actions under the James Callaghan government. An editor of The Sun gave this period its literary name.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    The Winter of Discontent was a major cause of this prime minister's victory in the 1979 election. This prime minister privatized state enterprises and restricted unions during the 1980s.
  Part 3 (ans: u-turn [accept word forms such as "The lady's not for turning"]):
    Thatcher foresaw a "winter of common sense" in a 1980 speech declaring her opposition to this metaphorical action. Ted Heath was dubbed the "undisputed king" of this action for his drastic 1972 economic policy shift.

[B4] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This document, which is included in the Doctrines and Covenants, was passed after the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Edmunds-Tucker Act. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1890 Manifesto [or Woodruff Manifesto or Anti-Polygamy Manifesto]):
    Name this document that ended LDS-sanctioned polygamy.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurel Thatcher Ulrich [or Laurel Thatcher Ulrich]):
    Wilford Woodruff's diaries formed the basis of this feminist historian's 2017 book A House Full of Females. This historian is best-known for a microhistory based on the diaries of Martha Ballard, A Midwife's Tale.
  Part 3 (ans: Reed Smoot [accept Smoot-Hawley Tariff Act]):
    The Second Manifesto was issued in 1904, reaffirming Woodruff's 1890 Manifesto during the three-year long attempt to impeach this Mormon senator, who names a 1930 tariff along with Willis C. Hawley.

[B5] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Stale sandwiches provided by one service were a common talking point supporting this policy, which led to the creation of companies like Connex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: privatization of British Rail [accept answers involving turning over public rail infrastructure to private owners or companies]):
    Identify or describe this policy in John Major's 1992 platform, which critics claim reduced safety standards and led to accidents at Southall, Ladbroke Grove, and Hatfield.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; or Baroness Thatcher]):
    The privatization of British Rail was unusually opposed by this Conservative prime minister during the 1980s, who preceded John Major.
  Part 3 (ans: finance [accept banking or stock trading; prompt on trading]):
    The term "Big Bang" is used to describe Thatcher's sudden deregulation of this industry, centered in the downtown City of London. The changes in 1986 removed the need for a "jobber" in this industry.

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: In 1982, this Labour politician taunted the Conservative leadership by erecting a sign on County Hall displaying the number of unemployed people in Britain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ken Robert Livingstone [prompt on "Red Ken"]):
    Name this politician, who started a speech with "As I was saying before I was so rudely interrupted 14 years ago..." after being elected mayor of London in 2000.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Livingstone was critical of this Conservative leader's policies during the 1980s, including this leader's decision to send British troops to the Falklands.
  Part 3 (ans: the wedding of Prince Charles and Princess Diana Spencer [accept Diana or Spencer, prompt on answer involving royal weddings without specifying who]):
    Livingstone controversially allowed Irish republican protestors to occupy the steps of County Hall during this 1981 event. This event was held at St. Paul's Cathedral and reportedly cost $50 million to put on.

[B7] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This person was the so-called "fourth man" in a group that included John Cairncross and Donald Maclean. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anthony Blunt):
    Name this man who agreed to an immunity deal by which he privately confessed to espionage. As an art historian, he directed the Courtauld Institute for over twenty five years and wrote a monograph on French Renaissance architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Cambridge [accept Cambridge Spy Ring or Cambridge Five]):
    Blunt, like Kim Philby, was part of a spy ring that passed British intelligence to the Soviet Union that took its name from this university town.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Blunt's espionage was exposed in a speech given by this politician. This chemist and lawyer turned politician wrote the books The Path to Power and Statecraft.

[B8] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist begins an affair with a Lebanese millionaire while working on a film adaptation of Henry James's The Spoils of Poynton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Line of Beauty (by Alan Hollinghurst)):
    Name this novel in which Nick Guest navigates his life as a gay man living with the conservative Fedden family.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; accept Margaret Hilda Roberts]):
    In The Line of Beauty, a coked-out Nick dances with this Prime Minister at an anniversary party. In a controversial short story, an IRA member proclaims, "fucking rejoice!" before assassinating this "Iron Lady."
  Part 3 (ans: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary Mary Mantel; accept Hilary Mary Thompson]):
    "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher" appears in a recent short story collection by this author. This author's novel The Mirror and the Light concluded her monumental trilogy about the life of Thomas Cromwell.

[B9] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In late 2019, researchers led by Armin Shayeghi demonstrated that an ultracold beam made of this peptide could interfere with itself, making it the first known biomolecule to demonstrate wave-particle duality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gramicidin [accept Gramicidin Soviet or Gramicidin S]):
    Name this 15-amino-acid peptide, a natural antibiotic. Georgy Gause's ("GYOR-ghee GOW-zee's") work on discovering the "S" or "Soviet" derivative of this molecule led to its quick adoption by Soviet hospitals to treat infected wounds.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Before she effectively used girl power by funneling money into illegal paramilitary death squads in Northern Ireland, this "Iron Lady" and British PM got her start writing a dissertation on the structure of Gramicidin S.
  Part 3 (ans: Lysenkoism):
    Gause's discovery of Gramicidin S likely saved him from the purges of biologists in the wake of the Soviet Union's adoption of this ecological system, which denied the existence of natural selection, adopted Lamarckian ideas, and believed that various grains could transmute between each other. It grew out of Michurinism.

[B10] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Milkman Eric Guiney and his son Desmond were killed by rioters after this man's death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bobby Sands [or Robert Gerard Sands]):
    Name this leader of a 1981 hunger strike in the Maze prison. His death inspired Patrick Magee to carry out the Brighton Hotel bombing.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [accept Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher]):
    Patrick Magee attempted to kill this British prime minister, also known as the "Iron Lady".
  Part 3 (ans: Ian Paisley [or Iain Richard Kyle Paisley, Baron Bannside]):
    This Irish priest campaigned against Catholics and homosexuality while leading the Free Presbyterian Church. He campaigned against the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1985 with the memorable slogan "never, never, never!"

[B11] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Home Secretary David Maxwell-Fyfe commissioned this document that focused on interviews with Carl Winter, Patrick Trevor-Roper, and Peter Wildeblood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wolfenden report [accept Report of the Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution]):
    Name this 1957 document. Harold Macmillan's government initially rejected the findings of this document, which advocated for the decriminalization of homosexuality in Great Britain.
  Part 2 (ans: Roy Jenkins [or Roy Harris Jenkins, Baron Jenkins of Hillhead]):
    This Labour Home Secretary oversaw the passage of the Sexual Offences Act in 1967, which partially decriminalized homosexuality, in addition to laws legalizing abortion and banning capital punishment.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Among the Conservative lawmakers to vote in favor of the Sexual Offences Act was this future Prime Minister nicknamed the "Iron Lady."

[B12] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Executives in this industry criticized unions' "old Spanish practices" that overly privileged workers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: newspaper industry [or the press; or journalism; or printing industry; or print media; prompt on media industry; prompt on publishing industry]):
    Name this industry in which union workers tried to block production centers from moving from Fleet Street to Wapping in 1986.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher]):
    Rupert Murdoch's move to dismiss print workers capitalized on this prime minister's anti-union laws. This Conservative "Iron Lady" faced down Arthur Scargill and the miners' union during the 1984-85 strike.
  Part 3 (ans: Lord Beaverbrook [or Max Aitken; or William Maxwell Aitken, 1st Baron Beaverbrook]):
    This press baron who owned the Daily Express and the Evening Standard used his newspapers to champion free trade and the empire against the protectionist policies of Stanley Baldwin.

[B13] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author attacked his own in-laws in the play The Best Man, which satirized the 1960 Democratic National Convention. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gore Vidal [vee-DAL]):
    Name this author who, during a televised debate with William F. Buckley, quipped that he used his opponent as the basis for his novel Myra Breckinridge.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Fry (Thatcher referenced Fry's The Lady's Not for Burning by remarking, "The lady's not for turning.")):
    This author wrote a play in which Jennet Jourdemayne is imprisoned after being accused of turning a man into a dog. Margaret Thatcher punned on the title of that play in her 1980 address to the Conservative Party Convention.
  Part 3 (ans: the screenplay of Ben-Hur [or the script of Ben-Hur]):
    Vidal and Fry collaborated on this work, which supposedly includes gay innuendo added by Vidal. The title character of this work is told "Your eyes are full of hate, Forty-One. That's good. Hate keeps a man alive."

[B14] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Trades Disputes Act was passed to prevent a recurrence of this event, and Stanley Baldwin attempted to defuse this event by giving a radio address in which he claimed "I am a man of peace." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1926 British General Strike):
    The Organization for Maintenance of Supplies was founded to undermine this event, which was met with military force after it threatened winter coal supplies.
  Part 2 (ans: Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill):
    During the General Strike, this chancellor of the Exchequer declared "I refuse to equivocate between the fire brigade and the fire" in advocating harsh measures to suppress the strike. He had earlier resigned as First Lord of the Admiralty after the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    This Prime Minister reinstituted the Trades Disputes Act after facing a mineworker's strike led by Arthur Scargill. This prime minister was succeeded by John Major after her ouster as leader of the Conservative Party.

[B15] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This claim was made in response to a question from Woman's Own magazine's Douglas Keay about social "deterioration." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "there is no such thing as society" [accept answers indicating there is no society, society does not exist, or we do not live in a society, or we really don't live in a society]):
    Give a reasonable approximation of this claim that was made in the context of responsibility to children. The speaker justified this claim by identifying a "living tapestry of men and women and people" who must be "prepared to take responsibility for ourselves."
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher]):
    This politician claimed in 1987 that "there is no such thing as society." Three years later, she responded "no, no, no" to questions over whether the U.K. would submit to European centralization.
  Part 3 (ans: "there is no alternative" [accept TINA]):
    Thatcher frequently used this four-word phrase to suggest the inevitability of deregulation and other pro-market reforms in 1980s Britain.

[B16] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: At a 1976 concert, a drunk Eric Clapton voiced support for this speech, declaring "Keep Britain White!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Rivers of Blood" Speech):
    Name this 1968 speech by Enoch Powell denouncing the Race Relations Bill and calling for an end to immigration. Some commentators credit the Conservative electoral victory in 1970 to this speech.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Heath):
    This Conservative Leader of the Opposition at the time sacked Enoch Powell from the Shadow Cabinet in response. During his government, Britain joined the European Community, and he imposed Direct Rule in Northern Ireland after Bloody Sunday.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Shortly after leaving office, this Prime Minister remarked that Powell "had made a valid argument, if in sometimes regrettable terms." This "Iron Lady" defeated Heath to become Conservative Leader in 1975.

[B17] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A luxury magazine set up in this book is titled Ogee [Oh-gee], after the s-shaped double curve. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Line of Beauty):
    Name this Man Booker winning novel, whose main character Nick is writing a PhD on Henry James. His conquests include a waiter Tristao, Wani Ouradi, and Leo, a black man from Willesden.
  Part 2 (ans: Alan Hollinghurst):
    The Line of Beauty is a 2004 Man Booker Prize winning novel by this British author, who also wrote The Swimming Pool Library and The Stranger's Child.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher, LG, OM, PC):
    At a party held by his host, Gerald Fadden, Nick gets high on coke and dances "rather sexily" to the Rolling Stones with this Prime Minister. This woman remarks that "It's not often one gets asked to dance by a don."

[B18] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the British Conservative Party. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven]):
    The party was once led by this female Prime Minister and "Iron Lady," who survived a bombing attempt at the Brighton Hotel.
  Part 2 (ans: Treaty of Maastricht):
    A group of "rebels" within the Conservative Party refused to sign this 1992 treaty, almost ending John Major's government. This treaty set up a multinational organization that replaced the European Coal and Steel Community.
  Part 3 (ans: "Rivers of Blood" speech):
    This speech by Enoch Powell, a Conservative MP, criticized the permitting of an influx of "some 50,000 dependants" before proclaiming that "like the Roman, I seem to see the River Tiber foaming."

[B19] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Irish phrase "Tiocfaidh ar la" ("CHOCK-ee ahr LAH"), which means "Our day will come." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Gerard "Bobby" Sands [or Roibeard Gearoid O Seachnasaigh]):
    The phrase is the last sentence of this man's diary written while he was participating in the 1981 Irish Republican prison hunger strike. He never took seat as an Anti H-Block member of the House of Commons since he died on the sixty-sixth day of the strike.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Hilda Thatcher):
    Patrick Magee, who attempted to kill this British Prime Minister by bombing a Brighton hotel in 1984, winked and shouted the phrase after being sentenced to prison. She was known as the "Iron Lady."
  Part 3 (ans: Gibraltar):
    After using the phrase to pass by security personnel, Michael Stone attacked mourners of three IRA members who were killed in this territory during Operation Flavius. George Eliot prevented the capture of this territory during a siege in 1782.

[B20] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This short story begins with a description of Trinity Place, the street on which the title event occurs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher - August 6th 1983"):
    Name this short story in which the perpetrator of that event poses as a plumber to gain access to a flat overlooking the back of a hospital.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher is by this British writer who chronicled the life of Thomas Cromwell in Wolf Hall and Bring up the Bodies.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mirror and the Light):
    Hilary Mantel is the first British writer to win the Man Booker Prize twice. This forthcoming third book in her Cromwell trilogy could give her a shot at an unprecedented third win.

[B21] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about hard work in Britain, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mining [accept equivalents and more specific answers like gold or coal mining]):
    Slaves in Roman Britain mostly worked in this industry, which used the age's most advanced hydraulic and cupellation technology at sites like Dolaucothi in modern Wales and the Mendips in Somerset.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    This politician probably longed for the good old days when you didn't have to pay miners anything at all while contending with Arthur Scargill's coal strike. She was known as the "Iron Lady."
  Part 3 (ans: Aquae Sulis [or the Waters of Sulis]):
    Stressed-out workers in Roman Britain could relax at this massive bath complex in Somerset, dedicated to a namesake goddess linked to Minerva. Workers who didn't feel like relaxing could alternatively use a "curse tablet" at this place to hex the shit out of people.

[B22] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: IRA volunteer Patrick Magee tried to kill this politician in the Brighton Hotel Bombing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Hilda "Maggie" Thatcher):
    Name this politician whose ruthless attempt as Education Secretary to deprive school kids of nutrition led Edward Short to christen her the "Milk Snatcher." She was better known as the "Iron Lady."
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Scargill):
    Thatcher was violently opposed by this former head of the National Union of Miners, who called for the 1984-85 miners strike without balloting the union. He also initiated the miners' strikes that led to the downfall of Edward Heath's government in 1974.
  Part 3 (ans: Leopoldo Fortunato Galtieri [or Leopoldo Galtieri Castelli]):
    Thatcher's stance during the Falklands War won her the enmity of this dictator of Argentina, the head of Intelligence Battalion 601 who was removed from power a few days after the capture of Stanley, the capital of the Falklands.

[B23] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: The person targeted by this headline had just arrived from an economic conference in Guadeloupe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Crisis? What crisis?"):
    Give this three-word headline printed by The Sun during a strike of TGWU lorry drivers.
  Part 2 (ans: the Winter of Discontent):
    A factory in Speke stored hundreds of dead bodies as a result of the gravediggers' strike during this 1978-79 period of widespread strikes ineptly handled by James Callaghan.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret (Hilda) Thatcher):
    The Winter of Discontent allowed this politician to succeed James Callaghan as Prime Minister. The popularity of this "Iron Lady" dwindled after she instituted the Community Charge poll tax.

[B24] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: While serving as the Secretary of State for Education and Science in the Heath government, this politician acquired the nickname "Milk Snatcher" after abolishing a free milk program for some schoolchildren. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Name this Conservative prime minister of the United Kingdom, nicknamed the Iron Lady. She presided over her nation's war with Argentina over the Falkland Islands.
  Part 2 (ans: North Sea):
    Thatcher's reforms during the 1980s were mostly paid for by a 80% tax on the extraction of oil from this sea.
  Part 3 (ans: The Lady's Not For Turning! [do NOT accept "This Lady's Not for Turning"]):
    Thatcher's speech at the Conservative Party conference in 1980 contained this five-word phrase, indicating her unshakeable resolve to not change her economic policies. It's a pun on a play by Christopher Fry.

[B25] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: These events began when almost 200,000 people gathered in Kennington Park on March 31, 1990. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poll Tax Riots):
    Name these 1990 protests in Britain directed against the namesake fee introduced by the Conservative government. These protests targeted a fee otherwise known as the "Community Charge" that were previously maligned by Wat Tyler in the 1380's.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Roberts]):
    The Poll Tax Riots hurt the reputation of this female Conservative Prime Minister, who was succeeded by John Major in 1990.
  Part 3 (ans: Labour Isn't Working):
    Thatcher's Conservative Party swept to victory in 1979 after a general election in which Conservatives used a poster featuring a massive unemployment line and this three word phrase. The poster was hailed as the best of the century by some analysts.

[B26] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This woman's diary describes the Purrinton murders and a paternity suit against her own son, Jonathan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martha Louise Moore Ballard):
    Name this midwife, who wrote about her life in Hallowell, Maine between 1785 and 1812 in a series of diaries that are now an important primary source about household life in the early years of the United States.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurel Thatcher Ulrich (accept either)):
    This Harvard historian of gender and early America collected and analyzed Ballard's diaries in A Midwife's Tale. In an article about Puritan funeral sermons, she coined the phrase "well-behaved women seldom make history."
  Part 3 (ans: Mormonism [or Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints]):
    Ulrich's book A House Full of Females analyzed diaries written by 19th-century women who practiced this religion. The founder of this faith claimed to have translated one of its central texts from some golden tablets.

[B27] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Nick Guest has homosexual relationships with the Leo and the Lebanese businessman Wani while boarding in the house of Gerald Fedden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Line of Beauty):
    Name this book by Alan Hollinghurst whose title refers to both the shape of Wani's body and the arrangement of his cocaine.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret [Hilda] Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Roberts]):
    In a scene in The Line of Beauty, Nick Guest dances with this world leader, who has finally decided to attend Gerald and Rachel's 25th anniversary soiree.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry James):
    In The Line of Beauty, Nick is writing a thesis on this American author of The Wings of the Dove. Nick vainly tries to promote a film adaptation of this author's The Spoils of Poynton.

[B28] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this conflict, Exocet missiles sunk the HMS Sheffield. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Falkland Islands War [or Falklands War; or Guerra de las Malvinas]):
    Name this conflict that began with an invasion of South Georgia and the surrender of the city of Stanley to forces from a country ruled by Leopoldo Galtieri.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    The Falklands War took place during the prime ministry of this politician, nicknamed the "Iron Lady."
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Goose Green):
    During their re-invasion of the Falklands, Argentine air strikes forced the British to fight this battle, in which they took Darwin Hill before defeating Italo Piaggi's forces to take the namesake city on South Falkland Island.

[B29] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some important Conservative Party British politicians of the 70s and 80s.
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    This Prime Minister gained office after defeating Jim Callaghan in 1979. In 1990, her attempt to introduce a poll tax in the form of the Community Charge led to her replacement as Prime Minister by John Major.
  Part 2 (ans: Michael Heseltine):
    This minister, nicknamed "Tarzan," served most prominently as Margaret Thatcher's Secretary of Defense. His leadership challenge to Thatcher in 1990, although unsuccessful, proved the start of her fall, and in 2013 he criticized David Cameron's plan for a referendum on EU membership.
  Part 3 (ans: Enoch Powell):
    This Ulster Unionist MP during Thatcher's government left the Conservatives after they led Britain into the European Economic Community. He is best known for his "Rivers of Blood" speech against Harold Wilson's Race Relations Act.

[B30] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Under pressure from her own party to change her economic policies, this woman referenced Christopher Fry and declared that "The lady's not for turning." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Hilda Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Roberts]):
    Name this Conservative prime minister who governed Britain in the 1980s.
  Part 2 (ans: Sinn Fein):
    This political slogan, meaning "We ourselves," was used by Irish nationalists in the early twentieth century. It lent its name to a party founded by Arthur Griffith.
  Part 3 (ans: They shall not pass [or No pasaran; or Ils ne passeront pas]):
    Dolores Ibarruri, also known as "The Passion Flower," is best-known for coining this slogan to inspire the Spanish Republicans during the Siege of Madrid. Robert Nivelle and Philippe Petain have been attributed with saying this phrase during the Battle of Verdun.

[B31] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This politician succeeded James Callahan in her highest political office. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Name this "Iron Lady" who was the first female Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The UK fought Argentina in the Falkland War during her Prime Ministership.
  Part 2 (ans: wets and dries [order does not matter]):
    These two terms were used to describe supporters and opponents of Thatcher within the conservative party.
  Part 3 (ans: mining [or word forms; accept coal mining or anthracite mining]):
    A union of workers in this occupation had a major strike in 1984 under Thatcher's prime ministership. Theodore Roosevelt set up an official commission to resolve a strike led by workers of this occupation in 1902.

[B32] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Leadin: The Blair government reformed this program by implementing the National Project for IT, and this program was suggested by the Beveridge report. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: NHS or National Health Service [accept anything involving "Britain" and "socialized medicine"]):
    Identify this single-payer health care system.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    This prime minister, through the white papers Caring for People and Working for Patients, reformed the NHS by creating an internal market. This Conservative PM was succeeded by John Major.
  Part 3 (ans: Enoch Powell):
    This minister of health under Edward MacMillan raised the alarm about deteriorating mental health services in Britain. He may be more famous for the anti-immigration "Rivers of Blood" speech.

[B33] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this man's tenure as Prime Minister, MP Stephen Milligan was found dead apparently as a result of a self-bondage act gone wrong. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Major):
    Name this Conservative Prime Minister who noted his 1991 negotiations during the Maastricht Treaty were won "game, set, and match for Britain." During his ministry on "Black Wednesday," the UK was forced to withdraw the pound sterling from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Hilda Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Roberts]):
    Major succeeded this Conservative Prime Minister after previously serving as her Chancellor of the Exchequer. She led the UK during the Falklands War and resigned after a 1990 challenge to her role as party leader.
  Part 3 (ans: The Sun):
    In the 1992 elections, this newspaper mocked the Labour Party leader with the headline "If Kinnock wins today will the last person to leave Britain please turn out the lights," which this paper later claimed was instrumental in the Conservative victory.

[B34] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This action began as a protest against the shutdown of 20 unprofitable sites, as directed by Ian MacGregor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the 1984-85 coal miners' strike in the United Kingdom):
    Identify this event that lasted almost a year but failed to receive sufficient help from the Trades Union Congress, and ended with many of the participants returning to work without winning any concessions.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    The strike was effectively broken by this Conservative PM's refusal to grant the miners any concessions. She compared the strike to the Falklands War, alleging that "the enemy within [was] more dangerous to liberty."
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Scargill):
    This man was the leader of the National Union of Mineworkers during the strike. He currently leads the Socialist Labour Party of the U.K.

[B35] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Sometimes miners strike in Britain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher of Kesteven [accept Margaret Hilda Roberts]):
    This prime minister defeated a year-long coal miners' strike with the help of Ian MacGregor, refusing to meet any of the miners' demands. This politician took a similarly uncompromising position to the hunger strike at the Maze Prison, whose participants included Bobby Sands.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Heath):
    The government of this Conservative prime minister from 1970 to 1974 was hampered by successful miner's strikes in 1972 and 1974. This man was ousted as Conservative leader by Thatcher and he became a backbench critic of Thatcher in Parliament.
  Part 3 (ans: Winston Churchill):
    Miners were instrumental in the 1926 general strike in Great Britain, which was prompted in part by the reintroduction of the gold standard by this chancellor of the exchequer. He went on to serve as prime minister from 1940 to 1945 and from 1951 to 1955.
