=== STOCK CLUES: Jose Clemente Orozco ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Orozco (accept Gabriel Orozco or Jose Clemente Orozco )
  - Mary K. [PWR]
  - Coffey compared a series by an artist with this surname to Walter Benjamin's analysis of Paul Klee's Angelus Novus . [PWR]
  - That artist with this surname once said, "in every painting... there is always an idea, never a story." Another artist with this surname filled a sixteen-by-sixteen chess board with knights for his piece Horses Running Endlessly . [PWR]
  - That artist with this surname covered a skull in black-and-white checkers in his sculpture Black Kites . [PWR]
  - An artist with this surname painted black serpents rising out of a tumultuous sea around a god with a white robe and a golden beard who points away from a red pyramid. [PWR]
  - The contemporary conceptual artist (*) Gabriel shares this last name with an artist who included the "Departure of Quetzalcoatl" in a large mural that also depicts a pile of books beneath a skeleton giving birth.
  - That mural was painted on the walls of the library at Dartmouth College.
  - For 10 points, give this last name of the artist of The Epic of American Civilization , Jose Clemente. [GIVE]

[T2] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jose Clemente Orozco
  - Prior to drawing cartoons for the newspaper The Vanguard, this man compiled watercolors of prostitutes into his House of Tears series. [PWR]
  - The title character of another painting is on his knees as he seems to reach beyond the top of the painting to claim fire; that work is his (*)Prometheus. [PWR]
  - A blonde man surrounded by waves points angrily out to sea as gray people look on in one panel of another work, and shirtless men carrying machine gun rounds are smashed against rocks in this artist's The Trench.
  - This artist painted a work at Baker Library at Dartmouth College which chronicles the migrations of native peoples, the arrival of Europeans, and the rise of industry.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican muralist of The Epic of American Civilization, a contemporary of Diego Rivera and David Siqueiros. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A man shields his face with his hands in an entry with this title from Ecuadorian painter Oswaldo Guayasamin's ("gua-YA-sa-min's") Age of Anger series. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Scream [or Skrik; accept The Scream of Nature or Der Schrei der Natur; or El grito]):
    Give this title of an Edvard Munch ("moonk") painting whose agonized central figure may have been inspired by a Peruvian mummy.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Clemente Orozco (The second sentence is the The Epic of American Civilization.)):
    Guayasamin studied alongside this artist, whose fiery murals include one of a priest extending out a torch. A group of skeletal gods dissect another in a massive artwork this artist created at a university's Baker Library.
  Part 3 (ans: Rockefeller [accept David Rockefeller or Nelson Rockefeller]):
    Guayasamin and Orozco met at a gallery hosted by this family, whose member David commissioned over 30,000 works of Mexican folk art. A member of this family ordered Vladimir Lenin to be removed from the mural Man at the Crossroads.

[B2] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A contemporary artist with this surname suspended a whale skeleton in his pieces Mobile Matrix and Dark Wave, and put a square pond with water lilies at the center of his four-player Ping Pond Table. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orozco [accept Jose Clemente Orozco or Gabriel Orozco]):
    Give this surname also shared by a Mexican muralist whose sprawling mural cycle The Epic of American Civilization is exhibited in Dartmouth's Baker Memorial Library.
  Part 2 (ans: skulls):
    Gabriel Orozco patterned one of these objects with a checkerboard for his piece Black Kites. Damian Hirst created a diamond-studded one of these human objects, and a distorted one appears in Holbein's The Ambassadors.
  Part 3 (ans: trees [accept An Oak Tree; accept Samurai Tree]):
    A series by Orozco uses a pattern of circles divided into monochromatic halves and quarters to evoke these title objects. A conceptual art piece by Michael Craig-Martin presents a glass of water on a shelf as one of these objects.

[B3] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This museum's series of retrospectives on Latin American artists has included solo exhibitions of works by artists such as Diego Rivera and Manuel Alvarez Bravo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Museum of Modern Art [or MoMA]):
    Name this Manhattan museum home to paintings like The Starry Night, Matisse's The Dance, and Picasso's Demoiselles d'Avignon.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Clemente Orozco):
    The MoMA's series of retrospectives also included an exhibition featuring this Mexican muralis. He painted The Epic of American Civilization for Dartmouth College's Baker Library.
  Part 3 (ans: Tarsila do Amaral [accept either underlined portion]):
    In 2018, the eighth artist featured in that series of MoMA retrospectives was this artist, who painted Abaporu for her husband Oswald de Andrade.

[B4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This mural depicts conquistadors wielding a cross like a weapon and Quetzalcoatl (KET-sull-koh-AH-tull) bestowing wisdom on the Mesoamericans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Epic of American Civilization [prompt on Jose Clemente Orozco's mural at Dartmouth College]):
    Name this mural at an American university. It depicts a man gorging himself on gold coins and a group of skeletons in academic attire amid a bunch of black books.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Rivera):
    This other artist created a series of twenty-seven murals of Detroit Industry for the Ford Motor Company. Another mural of his was destroyed by Nelson Rockefeller for containing a portrait of Lenin.
  Part 3 (ans: Mexico [or the United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]):
    Diego Rivera painted a large mural of the history of this country at its National Palace. This country was home to Orozco and Rivera.

[B5] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting was the center panel of a commission that included The Frontier of Ethical Evolution and The Frontier of Material Development. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Man at the Crossroads):
    Name this painting, which used "elongated ellipses" to depict the discoveries of astronomy and biology. It also included an armless statue of Jupiter and a headless statue of Caesar.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Rivera):
    Man at the Crossroads was later recreated as Man, Controller of the Universe by this artist, who was married to Frida Kahlo.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Clemente Orozco):
    This other Mexican muralist painted Man of Fire for the Cabanas Hospice. He included Gods of the Modern World and Hispano-America in his cycle Epic of American Civilization.

[B6] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist portrayed a green demonic dog bloodying the back of a blindfolded prisoner in a prison cell as part of his series condemning the Abu Ghraib scandal, which he called "a permanent accusation." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Botero Angulo):
    Name this Colombian artist who, in his own versions of the Mona Lisa and Arnolfini Wedding, represented the subjects in his characteristic style, with rotund bodies and exaggerated volumes.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Clemente Orozco):
    This Mexican painter included serpents rising out of the sea around a pointing figure in Departure of Quetzalcoatl, part of a series he did for Dartmouth College entitled The Epic of American Civilization.
  Part 3 (ans: Federative Republic of Brazil [or Republica Federativa do Brasil]):
    Artists from this Latin American nation include Lygia Clark, who made a series of movable metal objects with hinges called Bichos. This nation's Mt. Corcovado is topped by the massive Art Deco statue Christ the Redeemer.

[B7] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jacquelynn Baas has posited that this man's depiction of Christ destroying his cross symbolizes this man's denial of the sacrificial destiny meant for him as a citizen of his country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Clemente Orozco):
    Name this man who painted a skeleton giving birth in his Gods of the Modern World, as well as the arrival and departure of a certain deity in his Epic of American Civilization.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico):
    Orozco helped establish the Mural Renaissance of this country, along with David Siqueiros and Diego Rivera.
  Part 3 (ans: Dartmouth University):
    Much of Orozco's best work can be seen at this University's Hood Museum, along with Duchamp's The Box in a Valise, Pollock's Untitled (Bald Woman with Skeleton), and Ingres' Belisarius.
