=== STOCK CLUES: Rosa Bonheur ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: cows [or cattle; accept bulls, heifers, oxen, and other synonyms for cow] (The lead-in refers to the widely celebrated Durham Ox. The power-crossing line refers to Rosa Bonheur.)
  - John Boultbee's depiction of a celebrated example of these animals inspired the hilarious right angles in other images by John Porter and Henry Stafford.
  - Paulus Potter made a monumental portrait of one of these animals that rivaled The Night Watch in popularity. [PWR]
  - A portrait by Edouard Dubufe  shows a French artist in black draping her arm over one of these animals; she had earlier painted two groups of them in a (*) diagonal composition found in the Musee d'Orsay.
  - A black one of these animals is surrounded by crows in a depressing work by Van Gogh.
  - Regionalist works titled for them include John Steuart Curry's Ajax and Thomas Hart Benton's Achelous and Hercules.
  - A vacation inspired Edouard Manet to paint these animals surrounded by garishly dressed figures in a circular ring.
  - For 10 points, name these animals that Manet painted in Spain fighting matadors. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rosa Bonheur
  - Yellow and red blotches surround a lounging deer in a painting this artist did on a palette. [PWR]
  - A traveling wild west show inspired this artist's meeting with, and portrait of, Buffalo Bill.
  - The utopian socialism of this artist's father is discussed in an essay that describes the stronger "pathetic fallacy" in the work of Edwin Landseer.
  - For a large painting compared to the Parthenon frieze, this artist was assisted by Nathalie Micas. [PWR]
  - Linda Nochlin's essay "Why Have There Been No Great (*) Women Artists?" extensively discusses this artist, who may have been inspired by George Sand for a painting depicting teams of oxen being driven in a field.
  - This artist of Ploughing in the Nivernais donned trousers to paint a tree-lined boulevard along which dealers sell the title animals.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of The Horse Fair. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rosa Bonheur
  - A portrait of this artist at age 76 holding a sketchpad and sitting by an easel was painted by Anna Klumpke, who as a child had played with dolls depicting this artist that were widely sold in the US. [PWR]
  - Ernest Gambart's engravings spread the fame of a painting by this artist that was begun by Nathalie Micas and was partly inspired by the Parthenon frieze.
  - This artist's many exotic pets included a gazelle, a deer, and Nero and Fatma, two lions who appear in many paintings set on the savannah.
  - In a painting by this artist, a team of twelve oxen move right along a diagonal line of soil, which is compositionally similar to the line of (*) trees in another painting by this artist. [PWR]
  - This artist of Ploughing in the Nivernais received a special dispensation from the police to wear trousers in public, allowing her to make sketches in the Boulevard de l'Hopital of animals being led in a circle at the market.
  - For 10 points, name this French painter of The Horse Fair. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Camille Corot used a painting of the Bas-Breau section of this forest as the basis of his depiction of Hagar in the Wilderness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Forest of Fontainebleau [or Foret de Fontainebleau; accept Foret de Biere]):
    Name this forest often painted by members of the Barbizon School. A letter from Theodore Rousseau resulted in this forest being made an "artistic reserve" protected in French law.
  Part 2 (ans: Bodmer Oak [or Karl Bodmer]):
    Douglas Cooper successfully argued that Monet's depiction of Chailly Road should be renamed after this oak tree in the Bas-Breau portion of Fontainebleau. This tree is named after a Swiss painter who often painted it, but who is better known for depictions of Native Americans along the Missouri River.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa Bonheur):
    After the success of paintings such as Ploughing in the Nivernais and The Horse Fair, this lesbian painter was able to purchase the Chateau de By on the outskirts of Fontainebleau.

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An essay by this author criticizes the commonly held presumption that artistic achievement is "miraculous, nondetermined, and asocial." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Linda Nochlin):
    Name this author who argued that despite historians' contemporary focus on artists like Artemisia Gentileschi, there is no female equivalent to Michelangelo in the essay "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?"
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Zoffany):
    As an example of how women were historically banned from painting nude subjects, Nochlin cited this artist's group portrait of the English Royal Academy, in which Angelica Kauffman and Mary Moser appear as paintings on the wall because there are nude male models in the room. This artist also painted The Tribuna of the Uffizi.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa Bonheur):
    Nochlin's essay extensively discussed this artist's career to show that institutional support is necessary for achievement in art. The police granted this artist permission to crossdress in order to paint The Horse Fair.

[B3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist stated that painting "can only consist of the representation of objects which are visible and tangible" in an open letter called the "Realist Manifesto." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Jean Desire) Gustave Courbet):
    Name this French realist painter who depicted a disinterested crowd at a funeral in A Burial at Ornans.
  Part 2 (ans: The Gleaners [or Des Glaneuses] (by Jean-Francois Millet)):
    Critics shamed the central figures in this 1857 realist painting as the "Three Fates of Poverty" in reference to their red, blue, and white bonnets representing the tricolour. Women collect wheat after a harvest in this painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Ploughing in the Nivernais [or Laborage Nivernais; or Oxen Plowing in Nevers; or Ploughing in Nivernais] [by Rosa Bonheur]):
    This other realist painting features twelve oxen in groups of six trudging across a field. This painting may have been inspired by the opening scene of George Sand's novel La Mare au Diable.

[B4] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Camille Corot painted a reclining Mary Magdalene reading a book in one of his "historical landscapes" set in this place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Forest of Fontainebleau):
    Identify this forest, the site of the world's first natural preserve, which was repeatedly painted by several artists living in the adjoining village of Barbizon.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Francois Millet):
    This member of the Barbizon school repeatedly sketched old women gathering bundles of twigs from the Forest of Fontainebleau, and painted them stooping down in a field in The Gleaners.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa Bonheur [or Marie-Rosalie Bonheur]):
    The Chateau de By at the edge of Fontainebleau Forest housed the studio of this artist, who painted a team of oxen Ploughing in the Nivernais.

[B5] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Paul Cezanne complained that this painting "was horribly like the real thing". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ploughing in the Nivernais [also accept Labourage Nivernais or any translation that gets anywhere close to describing ploughing in/of/related to Nevers or the Nivernais]):
    Name this painting, said to be inspired by the opening scene of George Sand's novel La Mare au Diable. The title action is performed by twelve Charolais oxen, who work the land in a pastoral landscape.
  Part 2 (ans: Rosa Bonheur):
    Ploughing in the Nivernais is a work by this French artist, best known for her realistic depictions of animals. She has come to be viewed as a pioneering feminist of the 1800s, not least for routinely wearing trousers.
  Part 3 (ans: (Draft) horses):
    Another painting by Bonheur depicts a "fair" where these animals are being sold. Her depictions were inspired by George Stubbs and Theodore Gericault, who depicted these animals racing in The Derby at Epsom.

[B6] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: They're not birds, but Xu Beihong is most highly regarded for his paintings of these non-human animals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: horses):
    Eadweard Muybridge's photos of Sally Gardner, one of these animals, showed that at high speed they often have no feet on the ground. Frederic Remington often painted them, and one rears up in his sculpture Bronco Buster.
  Part 2 (ans: Rosa Bonheur):
    This daughter of the utopian socialist Raymond dressed as a man to help her go unnoticed while painting her masterpiece The Horse Fair, which was donated to the Met by Cornelius Vanderbilt.
  Part 3 (ans: George Stubbs):
    This British master of horse painting was excluded from the Royal Academy because of the subject of his paintings. He published a pioneering study of horse anatomy and is best known for Whistlejacket, which shows its title horse rearing on a solid gold background.

[B7] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The most notable study of Eadweard Muybridge involved taking a series of pictures of one of these animals in motion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: horses):
    Name these animals, a pale one of which accompanies death in Albrecht Durer's Knight, Death and the Devil and partially titles a painting by Albert Pinkham Ryder.
  Part 2 (ans: The Nightmare):
    A black horse peers out from behind a red curtain at the main action of this painting, in which an incubus looks out towards the viewer and sits atop a woman in a long, white gown.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa Bonheur):
    A line of trees stretch to the Hotel de la Salpetriere in the background of this artist's painting The Horse Fair.

[B8] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about artists interested in horses.
  Part 1 (ans: Donatello [or Donato di Niccolo di Betto Bardi]):
    This Florentine sculptor created the giant Equestrian Monument of Gattamelata. He is better known for a sword-wielding bronze nude.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Muybridge):
    This English photographer proved that a horse's feet all leave the ground simultaneously in his series Sallie Gardner at a Gallop, which was taken for Leland Stanford.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa Bonheur):
    This painter dressed as a man so that she could help out at a horse market, where she made observations for The Horse Fair.
