=== STOCK CLUES: Euripides ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Euripides [the play in the first line is The Acharnians.]
  - In one play, a character goes to this man's house and exasperates him by requesting a beggar's outfit and some vegetables. [PWR]
  - In a different play, this man pleads for someone to spy on his behalf on a gathering of his own female characters. [PWR]
  - Because the "iron-clamped mace" in this man's verse is lighter than the "two chariots and two corpses" in his alphabetically prior opponent's verse, a literal (*) scale in a third play tips in his opponent's favor.
  - One play invents this man's fictional relative Mnesilochus, with whom he crashes the women-only Thesmophoria festival.
  - This author died a year before the first performance of another author's play in which Dionysus judges this man's plays to be inferior to those of Aeschylus.
  - For 10 points, Aristophanes' comedies like The Frogs lampoon what Greek tragedian of Medea? [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Euripides
  - A man begs this character for a basket, a stopped bottle, and chervil in order to give an impassioned speech while on a literal chopping block of wood. [PWR]
  - At the end of one play, this character dresses up as an old hag and has the prostitute Elaphium distract an archer while this character rescues his friend. [PWR]
  - One character keeps saying that this man "lost his little (*) can of oil" as he tries to recite the prologues of plays. [PWR]
  - In one play, this character convinces Mnesilochus to spy on a women's-only festival for him.
  - In The Acharnians, Dicaeopolis borrows a costume from Telephus, a lost play written by this character.
  - For 10 points, name this recurring Aristophanes character who is passed up as the best tragic playwright by Aeschylus [ESS-kal-us] at the end of The Frogs. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 OCTAVIAN (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Aeschylus and Euripides
  - TWO ANSWERS REQUIRED One of these two characters is handed a bag as they depart to give to 'Cleophon and to the Tax collectors, Myrmex and Nichomachus'. [PWR]
  - The other of these two characters asks mockingly why the other talks of Parnassus and Lycabettus, in response to criticism that it is their duty to 'conceal the rot'. [PWR]
  - A third character who might be expected to take part in a dispute between these two characters is reported to be happy to 'sit on the fence' but that he will challenge one of them 'for the sake of (*) tragedy' if they win. [PWR]
  - The choice of a deity between these two characters is made when they offer advice to a city that 'they'll save themselves when they consider the land of the enemy as their land and their land as that of the enemy' For 10 points name these two characters, whose metatheatrical contest judged by Dionysus has a central role in The Frogs. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: king of Macedon [accept any answer indicating a ruler of Macedon; prompt on king or Greek king or equivalents] (the first clue refers to Archelaus I, patron of Euripides)
  - A holder of this title invited such literary figures as Plato Comicus and the epic poet Choerilus to his court, and had a man named Decamnichos be whipped for insulting a playwright's bad breath, prompting Decamnichos to lead a coup against him later. [PWR]
  - In honor of poems that he wrote for a holder of this title, Pindar's house in Thebes was spared from a sack in 335 BC. [PWR]
  - Classical accounts hold that a holder of this title offered patronage to (*) Agathon and Euripides, both of whom moved to his court and died there. [PWR]
  - This title's most famous holder was depicted by authors designated "pseudo-Callisthenes" in a series of popular medieval romances, as well as in Arrian's Anabasis.
  - For 10 points, give this title held by a man tutored by Aristotle called Alexander the Great. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Euripides
  - When a man asks whether this character is home, a slave answers that "he is and he isn't." This character is then "wheeled out" onto the scene and agrees to give away a beggar's rags, cap, and staff, a chipped cup, and a pot with a sponge for a stopper, but not any of his mother's chervil. [PWR]
  - This character apologizes to a group of women who want to murder him so that they will not interfere with his attempts to free his elderly relative (*) Mnesilochus. [PWR]
  - This character addresses a prayer to the ether, his tongue, his nose, and his wit in a play in which he is repeatedly interrupted by a rival who shouts, "Lost his little flask of oil!" at the end of this character's lines.
  - In that play, this character's descriptions of the Argo, persuasion, and an iron club do not weigh as much as the words of his opponent, so Dionysus leaves him in the underworld.
  - For 10 points, name this recurring Aristophanes character who loses a poetry contest to Aeschylus in The Frogs, the real-life author of The Bacchae. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play inspired by this author, Pentheus's head leaks blood, which is transformed into wine used for the title "Communion Rite." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Euripides):
    Name this playwright who inspired Wole Soyinka's adaptation of The Bacchae, which is set amid civil unrest in Nigeria.
  Part 2 (ans: Efua Sutherland [or Efua Theodora Sutherland]):
    This Ghanaian playwright, who pulled from Akan mythology for her play The Marriage of Anansewa, wrote the play Edufa based on Euripides' play Alcestis.
  Part 3 (ans: The Trojan Women):
    Femi Osofisan created the characters Anlugbua and Lawumi in a play set in the Owu Kingdom inspired by this Euripides play. In this play, Talthybius carries onto the stage the corpse of Astyanax.

[B2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, a king is convinced to crossdress in order to spy on a group of women who had used their thyrsi to draw milk and honey from the ground. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Euripides (The plays are The Bacchae and Medea.)):
    Name this author of a play in which a woman believes she has ripped a mountain lion to pieces, but realizes it was actually her son. Another of his plays ends as the title character flees on a divine chariot pulled by dragons.
  Part 2 (ans: Greek chorus [or choros]):
    The title women of Euripides's The Bacchae comprise this homogeneous group of performers. Ancient Greek plays often include this group of characters, who speak as one to provide information or comment on the action.
  Part 3 (ans: The Phoenician Women [or Phoinissai]):
    The war between Polyneices and Eteocles prevents a group of pilgrims from making it to Delphi in this other Euripides play, whose title also refers to its chorus.

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work, a gay photographer born with wings falls in love with this character as a teenager, then meets him again years later and follows him and his new lover Ancash to a Peruvian volcano. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heracles [or Herakles; or Hercules] (Heracles kills his wife and children.)):
    Name this character. A 2021 "playbook" that calls this character "outsize and outside the civilization he's saving" adapts an earlier play in which he kills Lycus for trying to murder four characters, only to murder them himself.
  Part 2 (ans: Anne Carson ):
    This author used Stesichorus's poetry as the basis for Autobiography of Red, which reimagines Geryon's relationship with Heracles, and published a collection of translated fragments by Sappho.
  Part 3 (ans: Euripides ):
    Carson's H of H Playbook adapts this Greek author's play Heracles. Carson's collection Grief Lessons collects plays by this author of The Bacchae.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Anne Carson reimagined this character as a suicidal Corvette thief in H of H Playbook. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Herakles [or Hercules; accept Hercules Furens]):
    Name this character who breaks up with the protagonist for the Peruvian Ancash in Autobiography of Red. Seneca the Younger wrote a tragedy titled for this character being "mad," or "furens."
  Part 2 (ans: Euripides):
    H of H Playbook adapts a play about Herakles by this author. This author of The Bacchae described the title character's plot to kill Glauce, Creon, and her children in Medea.
  Part 3 (ans: Troy [or Ilium or Ilion; accept The Trojan Women or The Women of Troy or The Trojan Women: A Comic]):
    Anne Carson collaborated with Rosanna Bruno to create a comic book adaptation of a play titled for this city. Andromache mourns her son Astyanax in a Euripides play titled for this city.

[B5] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Luis Alfaro's 2013 play Mojada ("mo-HAH-dah") reimagines this character as a seamstress who crosses the US-Mexico border to Los Angeles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Medea (The play is Medea by Euripides.)):
    Name this character who is exiled from Aztlan ("az-TLAHN") for loving La Luna in Cherrie Moraga's ("sheh-REE mo-RA-ga's") play The Hungry Woman. An earlier play ends with this character riding away in a golden chariot pulled by dragons.
  Part 2 (ans: Sophocles):
    Luis Alfaro's Greek Trilogy also includes Electricidad and Oedipus El Rey, two plays inspired by this author of the Theban Trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]):
    Sara Uribe's ("oo-REE-bay's") prose poem Antigona Gonzalez quotes from Antigona Furiosa, a play from this country. The audience witnesses a version of the Milgram experiment during a house tour in a site-specific play from this country, Griselda Gambaro's Information For Foreigners.

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem refers to its narrator as "a blind man, who lives in rocky Chios ("KEE-os"), and whose songs are the best forever," which has often been taken as a depiction of Homer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Homeric Hymn to Apollo [accept Homeric Hymn 3 or the Third Homeric Hymn; accept any answers that describe it as the "greater," "longer," or "first" Homeric Hymn to Apollo; prompt on incomplete answers such as Homeric Hymns or Hymn to Apollo]):
    Name this ancient Greek poem, which is often divided into "Pythian" and "Delian" sections. This poem is one of thirty-three archaic Greek poems written in dactylic hexameter and dedicated to various gods.
  Part 2 (ans: Delphi [accept Delphic oracle; prompt on Pytho]):
    The Homeric Hymn to Apollo depicts Apollo killing the Python at this location. The Python provides the etymology for the Pythia, the priestess of the famous oracle dedicated to Apollo at this location.
  Part 3 (ans: Euripides (Agave kills her son in Bacchae.)):
    Another Greek literary work set at Delphi is this author's tragicomedy Ion ("AI-on"). This author's tragedies often depict gods, such as in this author's play in which Agave ("uh-GAH-vee") kills her own son.

[B7] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character immigrates to Boyce Heights in Luis Alfaro's adaptation of this play, which another author used as the basis for a play that features post-apocalyptic countries like Gringolandia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Medea (by Euripides)):
    Name this play adapted into Cherrie Moraga's The Hungry Woman. A chorus of Corinthian women features in this play, in which a messenger recounts Glauce's death via a poisoned robe.
  Part 2 (ans: Chacmool):
    The child that Medea kills in Moraga's play has this name. In a Carlos Fuentes story named for a type of sculpture with this name, one of those sculptures comes to life after Filibert buys it.
  Part 3 (ans: Ophelia):
    Another Latin American adaptation of a Greek tragedy, Griselda Gambaro's Antigona Furiosa, depicts Antigone imitating the mannerisms of this character from her "mad scene" in Shakespeare's Hamlet.

[B8] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In 2017, British classicist Armand D'Angour reconstructed the chorus from a papyrus of this play that contains the only surviving fragment of music from Ancient Greek drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orestes):
    Name this play whose penultimate act ends after the title character spares the life of a Phrygian eunuch. That eunuch was a slave of a woman who vanished into thin air right before the title character was going to kill her.
  Part 2 (ans: Euripides):
    Orestes was written by this ancient Greek playwright who also wrote the tragedy Medea.
  Part 3 (ans: Helen of Troy (the other play is The Trojan Women)):
    Orestes ends after Apollo arrives as a deus ex machina and informs Orestes that he turned this woman into a constellation. In a different play by Euripides, the protagonist and a chorus of women try to have this lavishly-dressed character executed for her lust.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play is considered a commentary on the Athenian sacking of Milos during the Peloponnesian War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Trojan Women):
    Name this play, in which Andromache is unable to bury her son after her ship leaves. It describes the fate of Hecuba, Andromache, Cassandra and Helen.
  Part 2 (ans: Euripides):
    The Trojan Women was written by this ancient Greek playwright of Medea and The Bacchae.
  Part 3 (ans: Thesmophoriazusae ["thesmo-for-ee-ah-zoo-say"] (by Aristophanes)):
    As a character in this play by another author, Euripides uses various disguises to try to save his friend after he is captured at the title festival. In this play, Euripides's portrayal of women in his plays is discussed by women such as Micca in the assembly.

[B10] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Juvenal's sixth satire claims that one cannot be happy while one of these people is still alive. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: their mother-in-law [or clear equivalents; or hecyra]):
    Name these people, often the subject of jokes in Roman literature. In a play titled for one of these people named Sostrata, Philumena tries to avoid one of these people after having become pregnant after her rape by Pamphilus, though the two eventually get married in a not-too-happy ending.
  Part 2 (ans: Terence [or Publius Terentius Afer]):
    Hecyra, or The Mother-in-Law, is a play by this Roman playwright of Andria and The Self-Tormentor. Of Berber descent, he grew up as a slave but was freed in his twenties on account of his intellect.
  Part 3 (ans: Euripides):
    A less successful attempt to deal with children in awkward marital situations, in which the title character kills her and Jason's children, occurs in this Greek author's play Medea.

[B11] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, a character says that she would rather stand "three times to face their battles, shield in hand, than bear one child!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Medea):
    Name this only Ancient Greek play in which a character guilty of killing a family member goes unpunished.
  Part 2 (ans: Orestes):
    The title character of this other play also murders a family member, and tells his uncle "We are slaves to the gods. Whatever gods are" while explaining the madness he suffered as a result of the murder.
  Part 3 (ans: Euripides):
    This Ancient Greek author of Medea and Orestes supposedly went to live in a cave after two disastrous marriages.

[B12] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Raymond Picard, a scholar of this author, wrote the article "New Criticism or New Fraud?" in response to a book on him by Roland Barthes [roh-LAWN BART]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean Racine [or Jean-Baptiste Racine]):
    Name this 17th-century French playwright. This author of the tragedies Athalie [ah-tah-LEE] and Berenice wrote the title role of his play, Andromaque, for actress Therese du Parc.
  Part 2 (ans: Euripides):
    Racine's Phedre was based on this ancient Greek writer's play Hippolytus. His other tragedies include Medea and The Bacchae.
  Part 3 (ans: Denis Diderot):
    This Frenchman argued that actors should distance themselves from roles, instead of focusing on emotion, in his essay "Paradox of Acting." He wrote a philosophical work about the "dream" of mathematician Jean d'Alembert [dall-ahm-BARE].

[B13] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: According to legend, this writer was torn apart by Molossian hounds while in self-imposed exile in Macedonia, and Plutarch relates that his verses persuaded victorious Spartans not to destroy Athens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Euripides):
    Name this ancient Greek writer. Known as a bookish recluse, he composed his works in a cave on Salamis now named for him.
  Part 2 (ans: Orestes):
    Euripides's last tragedy produced during his lifetime centers on this man, who is also the protagonist of Aeschylus's The Libation Bearers and The Eumenides.
  Part 3 (ans: Iphigenia):
    Orestes and Pylades appear in one of the two extant Euripides plays about this woman. The other one begins with Agamemnon entrusting an old servant with a secret letter that is intercepted by Menelaus, leading to an argument between them.
