=== STOCK CLUES: Bismarck ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 45 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 50 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 JORDU (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bix Beiderbecke [or Leon Bismarck Beiderbecke]
  - A song featuring this musician is sometimes subtitled "Rhythmic Theme with Advanced Harmony" and was recorded by the Chicago Loopers. [PWR]
  - This musician and Joe Venuti trade solos before the final chorus of "Just an Hour of Love," which is attributed to Benny Meroff's Orchestra. [PWR]
  - Ken Burns: Jazz promoted the dubious claim that this musician saw Louis Armstrong perform on a Streckfus steamer boat.
  - After being expelled from Lake Forest Academy, this musician joined the (*) Wolverines. [PWR]
  - This musician and clarinetist Don Murray play solos on a 1927 recording of "Riverboat Shuffle." This native of Davenport, Iowa is featured on a 1927 recording in which he plays a blue note-heavy solo for two choruses, "Singin' the Blues" by Frankie Trumbauer.
  - For 10 points, name this "Young Man with a Horn," an influential trumpet soloist. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 The Geography Front (2021) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: Bismarck Archipelago
  - The fumarolic Valley of Wabua is located in this island group's Pangula Island, and the Koimumu Geysir Field is part of a geothermal region based around its Willaumez Peninsula.
  - Another island is famous for a shark-calling ritual as well as its Malagan carvings, which are part of its funeral rites.
  - The first colony in this group of islands was a copra farm established among the Tolai tribe on the Gazelle Peninsula.
  - A movement founded on one of these islands that fused Christianity and animism with Western architecture was first based in its Manus Province.
  - A massive gold mine on its island of Lihir is under development.
  - The Paliau Movement remains in its Admiralty Islands, which, like the Duke of York Group is an extension of this arc that forms a reverse crescent around a namesake sea.
  - For 10 points, New Britain and New Ireland are the largest islands in what archipelago in Papua New Guinea with a German moniker? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: The Great Sausage Duel [prompt on answers describing "a duel between Otto von Bismarck and Rudolf Virchow"; accept fight or synonymous words in place of "duel"]
  - This event is described in a "facetious sidenote" following a brief biography of fishmonger Claus Hagenbeck in a section of Ariel Dorfman's novel Darwin's Ghosts.
  - According to Edward Walter and Mike Scott's article on "cell theory, thrombosis, and [this event]," one participant in this event was the first person to create an instrument for doing autopsies on the brain. [PWR]
  - This event was supposedly sparked by one participant's refusal to agree to a large (*) military budget; twenty years later, one of the participants coined the term "Kulturkampf" [kool-TOO-uh-kompf] for a program instituted by the other. [PWR]
  - Had this event actually happened, one participant likely would have had issues with roundworms.
  - For 10 points, name this apocryphal event where the "Pope of Medicine," Rudolf Virchow [VEER-koh], supposedly challenged Otto von Bismarck to a fight using some wurst infected with parasites. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 JORDU (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bix Beiderbecke [accept either] [or Leon Bismarck Beiderbecke]
  - Bill Challis transcribed many of this artist's later piano compositions. [PWR]
  - This artist recorded a cover of "Sunday" while briefly a member of the Jean Goldkette Orchestra.
  - This artist is featured on the original recording of a song named for a variety of chewing tobacco preferred by the Wolverine Orchestra's bassist. [PWR]
  - The only solo piano composition recorded by this composer is titled (*) "In a Mist." This artist recorded "For No Reason at All in C" while a member of the Frankie Trumbauer Orchestra. [PWR]
  - This cornetist's stint with the Paul Whiteman Orchestra failed to stop his descent into alcoholism.
  - For 10 points, name this influential trumpeter who died at age 28, nicknamed the "young man with a horn." [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Social Science
     Answer: welfare state [accept The Welfare State We're In; accept social welfare or state socialism or Staatssozialismus after "Otto von Bismarck"; prompt on benefits or socialism or social safety net or social security; anti-prompt on universal health care by asking "can you be less specific?"]
  - James Bartholomew spent 11 years seeking a publisher for his scathing critique of this system in Britain, titled for one that "we're in." Paul Pierson's dissertation focused on the "retrenchment debate" concerning this system, which was critiqued in a 1984 book that formulated its author's namesake laws of "imperfect solution" and "net harm" using data from 1950 to 1980. [PWR]
  - A radical downsizing of this system is called for in Losing Ground by (*) Charles Murray. [PWR]
  - Historians often credit Otto von Bismarck with creating the first modern example of this system, which is often conceived as a series of "cradle-to-grave" interventions like those advocated in the Beveridge Report.
  - This system is a key component of the "Nordic model." A 1996 law in the US reformed, for 10 points, what sort of "state" that gives extensive social benefits? [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Otto von Bismarck
  - This leader began contributing to the anti-revolutionary newspaper Kreuz-Zeitung after entering the conservative religious social circle of the von Gerlach brothers while managing his father Alexander's estate. [PWR]
  - Frederick William IV selected this man to represent his home kingdom at the Diet of Frankfurt. [PWR]
  - In a famous speech, this leader said that the great issues of the day would not be decided by speeches and resolutions, but through (*) blood and iron. [PWR]
  - This leader's victory at the Battle of Sedan lead to his empire's annexation of Alsace.
  - This leader's editing of the Ems telegram lead to the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War.
  - For 10, name this first chancellor of a unified German Empire, who instigated the kulturkampf and pursued realpolitik.

[T7] 2015 SHEIKH (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: German Social Democratic Party [or GSDP; or Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands; "German" is not needed after "Bismarck" is read in the question - if it is not given before this, prompt for country]
  - This party lost nearly half its seats in an election that was called the "Hottentot election" for its party leader's denunciation of colonial policy. [PWR]
  - Following a meeting at Halle, a newspaper called Forward became the primary political organ of this party, whose "heroic period" began after it was blamed for assassination attempts by a tin worker and an academic against a monarch, prompting a series of repressive laws. [PWR]
  - This party was criticized for being too influenced by Ferdinand Lasalle at its first meeting in a tract that advocates (*) distributing labor vouchers to compensate members of society. [PWR]
  - While led by August Bebel, it issued the Erfurt Program to replace the earlier Gotha Program.
  - Its political activities were banned by a series of 1878 laws passed under Bismarck.
  - For 10 points, identify this largest German member of the Socialist International. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Bismarck
  - After first leaving the city where it was constructed, this ship collided with the Atlantik without damage.
  - During its first fighting action, this ship sank the Hood and exchanged fire with the Prince of Wales.
  - Days later, Fairley Swordfish from the Ark Royal were responsible for destroying this ship's steering gear, and the King George V and Rodney incapacitated this ship.
  - This ship was finally sunk by the Dorsetshire, and only 110 men from its crew survived.
  - Taking part in the Battle of the Denmark Strait and commanded by Gunther Lutjens, for 10 points, name this short-lived pride of the German Navy during World War II. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A precursor to this party, the ADAV, became a cult of personality in the 1860s after its founder, Ferdinand Lassalle, was killed in a duel by his spurned ex-lover's spurned ex-lover. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Social Democratic Party of Germany [or Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands or SPD or social democrats; accept SDP]):
    Name this political party formed in 1875 by a merger of several smaller parties organized by August Bebel and Wilhelm Liebknecht. This party now forms part of a "Grand Coalition" with a center-right "Christian" party.
  Part 2 (ans: Gotha):
    SPD was formally created at an 1875 congress in this town, where they crafted a Lassalle-influenced plan to transition to socialism.
  Part 3 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    Before his death, Lassalle unsuccessfully lobbied for government support of the ADAV from this leader, who later banned SPD in his Anti-Socialist Laws. This "Iron Chancellor" oversaw the unification of Germany.

[B2] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: An 1889 expedition sent by this empire occupied the port of Sagallo in Djibouti, but was forced to withdraw by French troops. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russian empire):
    Name this empire whose "American Company" was urged to conquer Hawaii in the Schaffer affair and established a line of settlements as far south as Fort Ross.
  Part 2 (ans: Ostend Company [or Oostendse Compagnie; or Compagnie d'Ostende]):
    This Flemish city was the namesake of an 18th-century Austrian company established to trade with China. This company was forced to close in return for British and Dutch recognition of the Pragmatic Sanction.
  Part 3 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    Russia and Austria were among the powers that gained no territory at the Berlin Conference, which this "Iron Chancellor" of Germany convened to organize the Scramble for Africa.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Miles Davis pioneered removing the "stem" from a type of these objects named for Paddy Harmon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mutes):
    Name these objects whose types include the "cup" and "straight" types, which change the timbre of certain instruments.
  Part 2 (ans: trombone):
    In jazz, mutes are commonly placed inside the bells of trumpets and these instruments, whose slides allow performers to play glissandos.
  Part 3 (ans: Bix Beiderbecke [or Leon Bismarck Beiderbecke]):
    This cornetist often performed solos with a Harmon or straight mute with the Original Dixieland Jass Band. He was a member of Paul Whiteman's band until his death at 28.

[B4] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A fraternal order called the "Sons of" this country organizes 17th of May parades throughout the US and Canada. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Norway [or Kingdom of Norway or Konungariket Norge] (May 17th is Norway's Constitution Day.)):
    Name this present-day country from which many "sloopers" emigrated, beginning with the 1825 sloop Restauration. A pioneer from this country wrote The America Book, which inspired many peasants to emigrate.
  Part 2 (ans: Seattle ):
    The National Nordic Museum is in the Ballard neighborhood of this city, where the ethnically Norwegian mayor Ole Hanson dealt with a 1919 general strike. This US city is named for a chief of the Suquamish ("suh-KWAH-mish") people.
  Part 3 (ans: Bismarck ):
    Though this capital of North Dakota was named for a German leader to attract German immigrants, many Norwegians also moved here.

[B5] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: John Rogerson told this man he was to duel him doctor-to-doctor not man-to-man, so this man offered a duel in which both would take two pills of poison prepared by the other and see who dies. For 10 points each;
  Part 1 (ans: Alessandro Cagliostro ("col-YOH-stroh") [or Count Alessandro di Cagliostro; or Giuseppe Balsamo; or Joseph Balsamo]):
    Name this man, labeled a "Quack of Quacks" by Thomas Carlyle, who died after being imprisoned in the Forte di San Leo for trying to found a Masonic Lodge in Rome.
  Part 2 (ans: horse races):
    While attending one of these events, former army surgeon Henry Howarth showed up to a debate naked to avoid infection from clothing entering a wound. The Jockey Club runs the Derby at Epsom, one of these events.
  Part 3 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    An apocryphal story relates how Rudolf Virchow challenged this man to a duel in which Virchow would eat a clown sausage and this man an infected one. Virchow coined the term for a set of policies this man implemented that included the Falk Laws.

[B6] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This statesman introduced basic health insurance, accident insurance, and social security as part of his plan to undermine the popularity of the Social Democratic Party. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold von Bismarck; or Otto, Prince of Bismarck, Count of Bismarck-Schonhausen, Duke of Lauenburg or Otto Furst von Bismarck, Graf von Bismarck-Schonhausen, Herzog zu Lauenburg; prompt on Duke of Lauenburg or Herzog zu Lauenburg]):
    Name this "Iron Chancellor" who helped unify Germany in the mid-to-late 1800s.
  Part 2 (ans: Junkers ("YOONG-kers")):
    Bismarck was himself a member of this class of Prussian elites. This class held immense sway over German politics through their virtual monopoly on agriculture.
  Part 3 (ans: Liebknecht [accept Karl Liebknecht or Karl Paul August Friedrich Liebknecht; accept Wilhelm Liebknecht or Wilhelm Martin Philipp Christian Ludwig Liebknecht]):
    The German SPD was co-founded by August Bebel and a revolutionary foe of Bismarck with this surname. Another revolutionary with this surname co-founded the Spartacist League with Rosa Luxemburg.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This cartoon appeared in the March 29, 1890 edition of Punch. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dropping the Pilot"):
    Name this John Tenniel (TEN-yel) caricature showing a chancellor departing the service of Wilhelm (VIL-helm) II.
  Part 2 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    This longtime Prussian and German chancellor is the subject of "Dropping the Pilot." He gave an 1862 speech concluding that "iron and blood" would solve the "great questions of the day."
  Part 3 (ans: Georg Leo von Caprivi):
    This successor to Bismarck voided the Reinsurance Treaty with Russia and advocated laws restricting child labor. In 1890 he acquired a salient from Britain in the Heligoland-Zanzibar Treaty.

[B8] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A speech titled for these two substances criticizes Bavaria, Wurttemberg, and Baden ("BAH-din") for their propensity to "indulge liberalism." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blood and Iron Speech [or Blut und Eisen]):
    Name these substances that title an 1862 speech that denounced the consolidation of power by "speeches and majority resolutions" in favor of expansion through the two title concepts.
  Part 2 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    This German statesman and author of the Blood and Iron Speech pushed for military expansion by the state of Prussia. He was dismissed unceremoniously by Kaiser Wilhelm II.
  Part 3 (ans: SPD [or Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands; or Social Democratic Party of Germany; or SDP]):
    After two assassination attempts against Wilhelm I, Bismarck outlawed this left-wing political party. Karl Marx wrote a critique of this party's Gotha Program.

[B9] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This report came from a German spa town in the Rheinland, but had international consequences. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Ems Dispatch [or the Ems Telegram]):
    Name this 1870 message from the Prussian King back to Berlin. A highly edited version of it was released in a successful attempt to incite the French public to war over a slight to their ambassador.
  Part 2 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    The Ems Dispatch was sent to this Prussian statesman, known as the architect of the German Empire and nicknamed the Iron Chancellor.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Ernest Jean-Marie Boulanger):
    This man reignited tensions with Germany with his hawkish response to the Guillaume Schnaebele affair. Called "General Revanche," this royalist was a huge threat to the stability of the Third Republic until his suicide.

[B10] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Over the course of the 19th century, European powers scrambled over each other to explore and colonize the African continent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Courteney Selous [or Selous Scouts]):
    This big game hunter founded a hunting association called the Shikar Club. This person fought under Cecil Rhodes during the Matabele war and names an elite unit that used terror tactics during the Second Chimurenga.
  Part 2 (ans: Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Duke of Lauenburg]):
    This German Chancellor sought to create European spheres of influence by hosting the Berlin Conference. This person gave the Blood and Iron speech to advocate for German unification.
  Part 3 (ans: Herero people):
    The Berlin Conference helped allow Germany to consolidate control over a colony in Southwest Africa where they subjected this ethnic group, the Nama, and the San people to a genocide under general Lothar von Trotha.

[B11] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: "The Guinea-Fowl that Lays the Golden Eggs" was drawn by this artist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Tenniel):
    Name this man who was the lead cartoonist for Punch for pretty much the entire Victorian Era. He also illustrated Alice in Wonderland.
  Part 2 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    Tenniel's cartoon "Dropping the Pilot" depicts Kaiser Wilhelm I's dismissal of this politician, who is depicted as a ship's captain being ordered off of his boat.

[B12] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This party's uncertain future was the subject of Julius Bachem's 1906 article "We must get out of the tower!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Catholic Centre Party [or German Centre Party; or Deutsche Zentrumspartei; or Zentrum]):
    Name this political party, which grew out of a meeting at Soest, led by Ludwig Windthorst and opposed to the marginalization of the Catholic Church in Germany during Kulturkampf.
  Part 2 (ans: Otto von Bismarck [or Otto Eduard Leopold, Prince of Bismarck, Duke of Lauenburg]):
    The Kulturkampf program was enacted by this German chancellor who declared that the great political questions of his time would be settled with iron and blood.
  Part 3 (ans: Congregations Law of 1875):
    This particularly hated 1875 piece of legislation from Kulturkampf revoked constitutional protection for religious orders, stopped state subsidies to the Catholic Church, and abolished religious orders. Gerard Manley Hopkins wrote about the death of five nuns escaping Germany because of this law in his "The Wreck of the Deutschland."

[B13] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Along with Wilhelm Liebknecht, this man founded the Saxon People's Party, and he wrote Women and Socialism, an argument against marriage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Ferdinand) August Bebel):
    Name this leading light of the German Social Democrats, who was accused of treason for opposing the Franco-Prussian War.
  Part 2 (ans: Gotha Program):
    Bebel was a proponent of this initial platform for the SPD, which called for the abolition of exploitative capitalism and wage labor through the universal franchise and democratization. It notably did not mention a Proletarian revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    Between 1878 and 1890, the SPD's activities were restricted by Anti-Socialist Laws, proposed by this man after he took advantage of two assassination attempts against the Kaiser to silence his political enemies. Those laws lapsed immediately after this man was forced from office.

[B14] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This man drew Benjamin Disraeli with angel wings as he prepares for an "Oxford Bal Masque." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Tenniel):
    Name this cartoonist for Punch magazine who depicted "Murder" trampling over a paper with "law" written on it in a cartoon about "Unions and Fenians." He is most famous for illustrating Alice in Wonderland.
  Part 2 (ans: "Dropping the Pilot"):
    This Tenniel cartoon depicts a man descending a staircase as a man in a crown looks down upon him. In it, a man's left hand is touching the side of a ship just to the right of a porthole.
  Part 3 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    "Dropping the Pilot" is Tenniel's depiction of Wilhelm II's dismissal of this Chancellor of Germany. This follower of realpolitik believed in "blood and iron."

[B15] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name the following about unusual duels.
  Part 1 (ans: hot air balloons):
    Monsieur Granpree and Monsieur le Pique decided to settle their mutual attraction to the same woman by shooting at each other while in these vehicles, one type of which was designed by the Montgolfier brothers.
  Part 2 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    When this German chancellor challenged biologist Rudolf Virchow to a duel, Virchow allegedly proposed that they each eat a sausage, one of which would be infected by deadly bacteria. This champion of kulturkampf declined.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Stewart, Lord Castlereagh [accept either underlined name]):
    It wasn't really unusual, but this dude challenged George Canning to a duel after they got into a debate about the Walcheren Expedition. He represented British interests at the Congress of Vienna.

[B16] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the unification of Germany, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Otto von Bismarck):
    The unification process was led by this Prussian chancellor, who engineered the Franco-Prussian war and claimed that the great questions of the time would be decided by "blood and iron."
  Part 2 (ans: Ems Dispatch or Telegram):
    Bismarck set off the Franco-Prussian war by secretly altering this telegram to make it look as though King Wilhelm had treated the French Ambassador rudely.
  Part 3 (ans: Burschenschaften or Youth Associations):
    After unification, these student societies experienced a resurgence. Previously, they had been fervent supporters of unification but were forced underground by the Carlsbad Decrees. The first one was founded at Jena in 1815.

[B17] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: Puncak Jaya is the highest mountain peak on this island. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New Guinea [do not accept "Papua New Guinea"]):
    Name this island whose western half contains the Indonesian province of Irian Jaya and whose southern half is indented by the Gulf of Papua.
  Part 2 (ans: Port Moresby):
    On the Gulf of Papua is this capital of Papua New Guinea.
  Part 3 (ans: Bismarck Sea):
    To New Guinea's northeast lies this sea. It is enclosed on one side by an archipelago of the same name that includes New Ireland, New Britain, and the Admiralty Islands.
