=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Violin Concerto No. 1 ===
(Questions where 'Violin Concerto No. 1' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2021 KEYSET (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: G minor
  - The third movement of one violin concerto in this key features castanets each time the soloist plays the main theme, and was popular at its Madrid premiere.
  - Jerome Lalande recounts the inspiration for one violin sonata in this key, whose composer "felt enraptured, transported, enchanted" on hearing the theme for that sonata in a dream.
  - This key of Prokofiev's Violin Concerto No. 2 is also used by a German composer in a concerto whose first movement is marked Vorspiel.
  - That violin concerto in this key was described by Joseph Joachim as "the richest, most seductive,"and was the first by the composer of Scottish Fantasy.
  - For 10 points, in what key is the Devil's Trill Sonata and Max Bruch's Violin Concerto No. 1?

[TM2] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Max Bruch
  - A theme from the Adagio movement of one of this composer's pieces is quoted in the "On the Summit" section of Richard Strauss's An Alpine Symphony.
  - A violin concerto by this composer begins with a low timpani roll on G, then a soft woodwind statement in thirds, and then a short cadenza marked ad libitum.
  - In an E-flat major piece by this composer, the solo violin and the harp introduce the fourth movement finale, marked Allegro guerriero.
  - This composer's aforementioned Violin Concerto No. 1 in (*) G minor has a first- movement prelude titled Vorspiel , and was described as "the richest, most seductive" by one of four German Romantic composers.
  - This composer quoted folk songs such as "Hey Tuttie Tatie" in his Scottish Fantasy.
  - For 10 points, name this composer who was inspired by the title Aramaic declaration to write Kol Nidrei.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the use of the D-S-C-H motif by people who weren't Shostakovich. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin Britten):
    Name this composer, who repeated the motif in the organ in "For I am under the same accusation with my Saviour" from their cantata Rejoice in the Lamb. This composer also wrote operas like Albert Herring and Peter Grimes.
  Part 2 (ans: Krzysztof Penderecki [pen-de-RET-ski]):
    This composer used the D-S-C-H motif in their Cadenza for Solo Violin, and used a transposition of it, together with the BACH motif, in the tone row of their St Luke Passion.
  Part 3 (ans: passacaglia [prompt on ground bass]):
    Ronald Stevenson wrote a giant piano work titled for this musical form based around the motif. The third movement of Shostakovich's Violin Concerto No. 1 is in this form, as is the fourth of Britten's Sea Interludes from Peter Grimes.

[BM2] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sofia Gubaidulina used Frederick the Great's theme for the Musical Offering to compose a work in this genre titled Offertorium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: violin concerto [accept but do not otherwise reveal Violin Concerto No. 1 by Dmitri Shostakovich; prompt on concerto alone]):
    Name this genre of composition. David Oistrakh premiered another work of this type that opens with a Nocturne movement, includes an extremely difficult cadenza, and heavily uses the D-S-C-H motif.
  Part 2 (ans: Dmitri Shostakovich):
    This composer incorporated the musical cryptogram D-S-C-H into works like his Violin Concerto No. 1 and String Quartet No. 8. This Soviet composer included an "invasion theme" in his Leningrad Symphony.
  Part 3 (ans: Aram Khachaturian):
    This other composer's violin concerto, also premiered by Oistrakh, begins with an Allegro con fermezza movement. This Armenian-born composer's ballet Gayaneh includes a raucous "Sabre Dance."

[BM3] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: There is argument over whether the first appearance of this musical idea occurred in its creator's Violin Concerto No. 1 or his Symphony No. 10, where it alternates with a different theme named for one the composer's students, Elmira. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: DSCH motif [accept the notes "D - Eb - C - B" in that order; accept "D natural", "E flat", "C natural", and "B natural", as substitutes for the notes "D", "Eb", "C", and "B", respectively; do NOT accept or prompt on enharmonic equivalents of the notes listed, as the "play on German notation" would no longer function]):
    Name this melodic figure that often recurs in the works of a Soviet composer. Perhaps it's most famous appearance is in the opening bars of a work "dedicated to the victims of fascism and the war".
  Part 2 (ans: cello [accept violoncello; do NOT accept or prompt on "violin"]):
    The DSCH motif appears in that aforementioned work, its composer's famed String Quartet No. 8, where it is first played by this instrument, whose virtuosos include Mstislav Rostropovich ("ROSS-tro-poe-VITCH").
  Part 3 (ans: Dmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich):
    Along with the 8th, 12 other of this composer's 15 string quartets were premiered by the Beethoven Quartet. This man's other works include his jazzy Waltz No. 2, and his Symphony No. 7, "Leningrad."

[BM4] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Clara Schumann composed these types of works for Beethoven's third and fourth piano concerti. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cadenza):
    Name this break in a piece in which a soloist plays or improvises a virtuosic passage.
  Part 2 (ans: Niccolo Paganini):
    In addition to his own difficult works, violinist Emile Sauret is now best-known for writing a cadenza to this composer's Violin Concerto No. 1. This composer liked to use unorthodox bowing techniques like the ricochet, which features prominently in the finale of that concerto.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Schnittke [SHNIT-kuh]):
    This polystylist composer of six concerti grossi also wrote three cadenzas for Beethoven's Violin Concerto, the first of which quoted the first violin concerti of Bartok and Shostakovich.

[BM5] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these composers of pieces that are now used as standard etudes for violin students, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Rodolphe Kreutzer (KROYT-sir) [accept Kreutzer Sonata]):
    This violin instructor at the Paris Conservatoire (con-sair-vah-TWARR) wrote 42 Etudes or Caprices. He was the dedicatee of Beethoven's Violin Sonata No. 9, which fluctuates between A major and A minor.
  Part 2 (ans: Henryk Wieniawski (HEN-rick v'yen-YOFF-skee) [or Henri Wieniawski]):
    This Polish violinist collected 10 etudes in his Ecole Moderne (ay-COLE muh-DAIRN). He composed a "Preghiera" (preg-YAIR-ah), or "Prayer," movement for his Violin Concerto No. 1 as well as the showpieces Scherzo-Tarantelle (SCARE-tsoh tah-ron-TELL) and Legende (lay-JOND).
  Part 3 (ans: Niccolo Paganini):
    This virtuoso violinist became a celebrity after he premiered his 24 Caprices, which have become pedagogical tools. He used a theme from Rossini's Moses for a set of variations that are performed on the G string only.

[BM6] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first movement of this composer's Violin Concerto No. 1 in G minor is a prelude, or Vorspiel [fore-shpeel], that begins with the soloist trading statements with the rest of the orchestra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Bruch [or Max Christian Friedrich Bruch]):
    Name this German composer of Kol Nidrei and the Scottish Fantasy.
  Part 2 (ans: cello [or violoncello]):
    Bruch's Kol Nidrei includes a solo part for this large string instrument played by Yo-Yo Ma.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo de Sarasate [or Pablo Martin Meliton de Sarasate y Navascues]):
    Bruch dedicated his Scottish Fantasy to this virtuoso and composer who based his Zigeunerweisen [tsee-GOY-nuh-VYE-zen] on Roma music. He wrote the best-known Carmen Fantasy, scored for solo violin and orchestra.

[BM7] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Like Prokofiev's Violin Concerto No. 1, which inspired it, this piece begins with a slow movement, then a scherzo, and then a finale. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Walton's Viola Concerto in A minor [prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this concerto. Paul Hindemith played the solo part at its premiere, after Lionel Tertis declined.
  Part 2 (ans: William Primrose):
    This Scottish violist, a member of the London String Quartet at its end, made a revised version of Walton's viola concerto in 1936. He also commissioned Bartok's viola concerto, which remained unfinished at Bartok's death.
  Part 3 (ans: Harold in Italy, Symphony in Four Parts with Viola Obbligato, Op. 16 [or Harold en Italie, Symphonie en quatre parties avec un alto principal]):
    Primrose is perhaps best known for his many recordings of this Berlioz "symphony in four parts with viola obbligato," which is based on a Byron poem about a certain character's pilgrimage.

[BM8] 2016 ACF Fall (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Tchaikovsky's composition of this type was originally declared unplayable by Leopold Auer, who then changed his mind and made a revised edition that was harder. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: violin concerto [prompt on concerto]):
    Identify this type of orchestral composition often played by virtuosos such as Fritz Kreisler, Joseph Joachim, and Hilary Hahn.
  Part 2 (ans: Johannes Brahms):
    This German composer of the Academic Festival Overture dedicated his Violin Concerto to Joseph Joachim. He also wrote a namesake "Cradle Song," or lullaby.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Bruch [or Max Christian Friedrich Bruch]):
    This composer's Violin Concerto No. 1 in G minor is considered one of the five great romantic violin concerti. He also wrote Kol Nidrei and a Scottish Fantasy for solo violin and orchestra.

[BM9] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the "important but long-neglected" Basque composer Andres Isasi, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Engelbert Humperdinck):
    Isasi studied under this amusingly named German composer, who wrote the music for the popular opera Hansel und Gretel.
  Part 2 (ans: zero [or: obvious equivalents]):
    Isasi gave this number to his opus 83 string quartet, in E minor. Bruckner's Symphony in D minor is often given this number due to the empty set symbol he wrote at the top after receiving "harsh" criticism.
  Part 3 (ans: romanze [or:romanza, romance]):
    The second movement of Isasi's String Quartet No. 4 in D major is in the style of, and named for, this type of work. Vadim Gluzman paired Bruch's Violin Concerto No. 1 and String Quintet in A minor with Bruch's opus 85 work of this type-actually written for viola-on a recording that justly won a ton

[BM10] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's Piano Concerto No. 1 is scored for a small orchestra of just trumpet and strings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dmitri Shostakovich [or Dmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich]):
    Name this composer whose Violin Concerto No. 1 comprises a nocturne, a scherzo, a passacaglia (PASS-uh-KAG-lee-uh), and a burlesque.
  Part 2 (ans: Leningrad Symphony [or Symphony No. 7; or obvious equivalents]):
    A Soviet city lends its name to this Shostakovich symphony, whose first movement introduces a repetitive "invasion" theme often interpreted as a depiction of the Nazi army.
  Part 3 (ans: Symphony No. 5 [or obvious equivalents]):
    This D minor Shostakovich symphony was written in response to a scathing review that denounced his opera Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District as "muddle instead of music."

[BM11] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of this composer's works for cello and orchestra is subtitled "An Adagio on 2 Hebrew Melodies,"while another of his works opens with a "Vorspiel" first movement that contains many double stops. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max (Christian Frederich) Bruch):
    Name this German Romantic composer of Kol Nidrei who is best remembered for his Violin Concerto No. 1 in G Minor.
  Part 2 (ans: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy):
    Another German composer of the Romantic period was this man who composed the oratorio Elijah, incidental music for A Midsummer Night's Dream, and the collection Songs Without Words.
  Part 3 (ans: Scotland [or Alba; accept Scottish Fantasy; accept Scottish Symphony; do not accept or prompt on "Britain"]):
    Both Bruch and Mendelssohn created pieces named after this country. Bruch's work is a fantasy in E-flat major for violin and orchestra, while Mendelssohn's is a symphony that was written on the same trip that also produced his Hebrides Overture.
