=== STOCK CLUES: Heinrich Böll ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Heinrich Boll [or Heinrich Theodor Boll]
  - In a novella by this author, the protagonist often worries that he will die "between Lvov and Cernauti ." In a story by this author, the protagonist notices an outline on a wall where a cross used to hang and pictures of Medea and Boy with a Thorn in a hallway. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of a story by this author compares his reflection in a light bulb to an "unusually diminutive embryo." A novella by this author ends after the Polish prostitute Olina dies with the (*) soldier Andreas. [PWR]
  - A story by this author ends as the protagonist whispers "Milk..." to a fireman who used to be a janitor.
  - In a story by this author of The Train Was on Time, a wounded soldier realizes he's in his old high school after seeing the phrase "Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We..." on a blackboard.
  - For 10 points, what German author of "rubble literature" wrote about the Faehmel family in Billiards at Half-Past Nine? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Heinrich Boll (The first and second lines refer to The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum. The third and fourth lines refer to Billiards at Half-Past Nine.)
  - In one work by this author, a tabloid reporter asks the title character for sex, which prompts her to shoot him. [PWR]
  - That character by this author sleeps with a bank robber and has her life ruined by Totges. [PWR]
  - Another work by this author ends with the adoption of Hugo by someone who refused to take (*) "the host of the beast". [PWR]
  - That character created by this author spends 90 minutes playing the title game every day.
  - For 10 points, identify this author, who wrote about Robert Faehmel in Billiards at Half-Past Nine. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 CLEAN (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer:  Heinrich [accept  Heinrich Boll; accept  Heinrich von Kleist]
  - A short story by an author with this first name ends with the protagonist whispering "Milk..." to the custodian Mr. [PWR]
  - Birgeler. [PWR]
  - In a story by another author with this first name, two characters wander in a shady grove of pomegranate trees after witnessing how "men and women of every social station" were discussing "accounts of extraordinary heroic deeds." An author with this first name wrote about a character who realizes he lost three limbs after seeing the phrase "Stranger, bear word to the Spartans we... ." (*) The child Philip is adopted after Don Fernando is killed by a religious mob in a story by an author with this first name. [PWR]
  - That author with this first name wrote "The Earthquake in Chile" and committed suicide with Henriette Vogel.
  - For 10 points, given this first name shared by an author with the surname von Kleist and an author that wrote Billiards At Half Past Nine . [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: hotels [accept resorts; accept conference centers; accept hotel rooms; accept The Grand Budapest Hotel; accept Prince Heinrich Hotel or Hotel Prinz Heinrich; accept Grand Hotel or Menschen im Hotel; accept The Hotel Years; accept Hotel Savoy; accept The Hotel Tito or Hotel Zagorje; prompt on lodgings or rooms or suites; reject "motels"] (The second sentence is about Joseph Roth. Christine appears in The Post-Office Girl. Greta Garbo played Grusinskaya in the novel's 1932 film adaptation, Grand Hotel. Heinrich Boll wrote Billiards at Half-Past Nine.)
  - Tito's Political School is nicknamed for one of these places in a novel by Ivana Bodrozic .
  - An author who called himself a "citizen" of these places wrote a 1924 novel about one in Łodz  and 64 pieces of interwar journalism collected in a book titled for their "years." An aunt invites Christine, a girl who works in a post office, to one of these places in Switzerland in a novel by an author who inspired a film titled for one of these places with his "Mitteleuropa" memoir The World of Yesterday.
  - The scarred veteran Dr.
  - Otternschlag and the ballerina Grusinskaya are among the title "people at" one of these places in a Weimar-era novel by Vicki Baum that was adapted into a Pre-Code film.
  - In a 1959 novel of "rubble literature," one of these buildings called the Prince Heinrich is where Faehmel plays the title Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
  - For 10 points, what kind of building titles a Stefan Zweig-inspired film about the Grand Budapest? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's story "Black Sheep" won the Group 47 literary prize. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heinrich Boll [Heinrich Theodor Boll] [The second novel is Billiards at Half-Past Nine.]):
    Name this author who wrote about a divorced maid who murders a journalist in the novel The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum. This author wrote a novel in which a member of the Faehmel family designs St. Anthony's Abbey.
  Part 2 (ans: The Tin Drum [or Die Blechtrommel]):
    Group 47's prize that recognized German authors in the post-World War Two years went to Gunter Grass for this novel, in which Oskar Matzerath stops growing at the age of three.
  Part 3 (ans: Ingeborg Bachmann):
    Paul Celan was angered when this author's collection Borrowed Time won the Group 47 prize. This author's only novel, Malina, is about a writer who disappears in a crack in her apartment wall.

[B2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the short story "Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We..."
  Part 1 (ans: World War II [or Second World War; or WW2]):
    After fighting in this war, the narrator of the story slowly realizes that the hospital he has been taken to is his old school. Elie Wiesel's (ELL-ee WEE-zuhl's) book Night takes place during this war.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Boll (HINE-rick BURL) [The novel is Billiards at Half-Past Nine.]):
    "Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We..." is by this German author, who also addressed World War II in a 1958 novel in which the architect Robert Faehmel (FAY-mul) destroys St. Anthony Abbey.
  Part 3 (ans: rubble literature [or Trummerliteratur; or clear-cutting literature; or Kahlschlagliteratur]):
    Like many works by members of Gruppe (GRUP-uh) 47, the story exemplifies this postwar German literary movement, whose sparse stories generally depict returning people's perspectives of the destruction of Germany.

[B3] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In response to a reporter's insistence that he have sex with her, this character replies, "Bang, if that's what you want," before shooting him with a pistol. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Katharina Blum [or Katharina Blum; accept The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum or Die Verlorene Ehre der Katharina Blum]):
    Name this character who murders the tabloid reporter Werner Totges over misleading news stories that portray her as a left-wing terrorist's accomplice.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Boll [or Heinrich Theodor Boll]):
    This author of The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum was lambasted by the tabloid paper Bild-Zeitung for his support of due process for left-wing terrorists. This author also wrote Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
  Part 3 (ans: Gunter Grass [or Gunter Wilhelm Grass] (The novel is The Tin Drum.)):
    This friend of Boll wrote politically in his poem "What Must Be Said." The protagonist of a novel by this author leads a group of terrorists called "The Dusters" before he is sent to an asylum for Sister Dorothea's murder.

[B4] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A stretcher-bound man slowly realizes that the hospital he's in was his former art school in "Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We...", a story written by an author from this movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rubble literature [or Trummerliteratur]):
    Identify this literary movement. In a story by another author from this movement, an elderly woman wakes up in the middle of the night to discover her husband sneaking an extra slice of rationed bread.
  Part 2 (ans: chalkboards [or blackboards]):
    In "Stranger, Bear Words to the Spartans We...", the narrator observes the title truncated phrase on one of these objects. In Albert Camus's "The Guest," the lines "You handed over our brother. You will pay for this" appear written on one of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Boll ("berl" or "boll") [or Heinrich Theodor Boll]):
    This foremost author of German "rubble literature" wrote "Stranger, Bear Word to the Spartans We...." He also chronicled three generations of the Faehmel family in Billiards at Half-Past Nine.

[B5] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote about a Polish-German-Lithuanian Cemetery Association in The Call of the Toad and a meeting during the thirty Years War in The Meeting at Telgte. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gunter Grass):
    Name this author who wrote a novel narrated by Paul Pokriefke, who was born as a ship sank.
  Part 2 (ans: Group 47):
    Grass was a part of this literary criticism movement that focused on promoting unknown authors, especially of post-war literature, and was named after the year it was founded.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Boll):
    This other member of Group 47 is most well-known for his novel Billiards at Half-Past Nine, which takes place over the course of a single day.

[B6] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about post WWII German literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum (or Die verlorene Ehre der Katharina Blum)):
    The title German housekeeper helps the army deserter Ludwig Gotten escape from the police, thereby attracting attention from a tabloid journalist, in this 1974 novel.
  Part 2 (ans:  Heinrich Boll):
    This German author of The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum also wrote Group Portrait with Lady and Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
  Part 3 (ans: Group 47 (or Gruppe 47)):
    Boll, with other German authors such as Gunter Grass and Alfred Andersch, was a member of this influential literary group, which aimed to encourage young authors in Germany. Taking its name from the year it was founded, it was officially disbanded in 1977.

[B7] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this work auctions off a copy of Faust for a tin lice comb and receives a Red Cross postcard from his mother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hunger Angel [or Atemschaukel]):
    Name this novel in which Leo Auberg is deported to a Soviet gulag and spends five years in a coke processing plant where one shovel load of coal is worth one gram of bread.
  Part 2 (ans: Herta Muller):
    This German author of The Hunger Angel won the 2009 Nobel Prize for Literature. She also wrote about Irene, who struggles to find love after emigrating to West Berlin, in Traveling on One Leg.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Boll):
    This other German writer won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1972. He wrote about the Faehmel family in Billiards at Half-Past Nine.

[B8] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the protagonist's lover Marie abandons him for Zupfner and reverts back to the Catholic ways of her childhood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Clown [or Ansichten eines Clowns]):
    Name this novel in which Hans Schnier holes himself up inside his Bonn apartment and makes many fruitless phone calls for help.
  Part 2 (ans: Billiards at Half-Past Nine [or Billard um halbzehn]):
    This other novel by the author of The Clown is set on a single day and chronicles three generations of the Faehmel family of architects and their work at St. Anthony's Abbey from before World War II to beyond.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Boll):
    The Clown and Billiards at Half-Past Nine were both written by this German novelist.

[B9] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these twentieth-century German authors.
  Part 1 (ans: Erich Maria Remarque):
    This author of The Night in Lisbon wrote about boys such as Tjaden and Paul Baumer going to fight in the first World War in his novel All Quiet on the Western Front.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Boll):
    This author wrote about a woman who shoots the intrusive journalist Totges in The Lost Honor of Katharina Blum, but he is best known for a novel about the Faehmel family.
  Part 3 (ans: W.G. Sebald):
    This German is famous for incorporating photographs into the text of his novels, which include The Emigrants and Austerlitz.

[B10] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One motif in this novel is the contrast between the beast and the lamb, as can be seen in the characters of Nettlingen, a former police enforcer, and Marianne, who relates the story of how her family partially completed a planned collective suicide. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Billiards at Half-past Nine [or Billard um halb zehn]):
    Name this novel in which Johanna attempts to shoot a government minister.
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich Boll):
    This author wrote about the three generations of the Faehmel family in Billiards at Half-past Nine. He created a woman who shoots a pestersome journalist in The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Anthony's Abbey [prompt on partial answer]):
    In Billiards at Half-past Nine, Robert Faehmel orders the destruction of this building, later earning the ire of his son, Joseph. A birthday cake shaped like this building appears in the novel.
