=== STOCK CLUES: Venerable Bede ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 29 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: the Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede]
  - In 1896, Carolus Plummer published a highly influential introduction to a work titled for this author's Opera Historica. [PWR]
  - This man engaged in the practice of computus in a "little book on the fleeting and wave-tossed course of time," his The Reckoning of Time. [PWR]
  - Roger of Howden wrote a precisely continued sequel to a book by this man, who supposedly died immediately after completing his translation of the (*) Gospel of John. [PWR]
  - This man was the teacher of Archbishop Egbert.
  - Though he almost never left Wearmouth-Jarrow, the wide usage of this man's writings in Europe popularized a system invented by Dionysius Exiguus  of dating with the currently used BC and AD years.
  - For 10 points, name this Northumbrian monk whose influential chronologies of the Anglo-Saxons include the Ecclesiastical History of the English People. [GIVE]

[T2] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Saint Bede the Venerable [or the Venerable Bede]
  - Bertram Colgrave and Robert Mynors edited the Oxford University Press version of one of this man's works, whose manuscripts are called the "c" and "m" texts. [PWR]
  - This man took inspiration from Isidore of Seville to write his version of the De natura rerum. [PWR]
  - One of this man's works was written in order to calculate the date of (*) Easter and states that the title endeavor can be done using regnal years or 15-year cycles.
  - Besides his On the Reckoning of Time, he wrote a book used extensively by William of Malmsbury and Geoffrey of Monmouth as a source.
  - For 10 points, name this eighth century monk from Jarrow, the author of the Ecclesiastical History of the English People who is called "Venerable." [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: the Venerable Bede [or St. Bede or Baeda]
  - This man was the first person to correlate the movement of tides to stages of the moon, and he was particularly proud of his calculations in De temporibus, even though one of Bishop Wilfrid's minions falsely accused him of heresy over the way he calculated the date of Easter.
  - Another controversy over Easter, at the Synod of Whitby, features prominently in his best-known work, a history written for King Ceolfrith of Northumbria in the 730s.
  - For 10 points, name this monk of Jarrow known as the father of English history. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Much of the earliest surviving literature from the British Isles is in this language or in Latin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English]):
    Name this language used by the poets Caedmon ("KAD-mun") and Cynewulf ("KOO-nay-wolf"), which was also used to write the epic Beowulf.
  Part 2 (ans: hymns [accept "Caedmon's Hymn"; accept Olney Hymns]):
    Caedmon is known for an extant nine-line poem of this type written to "honour / heaven- kingdom's Ward." The later authors John Newton and William Cowper ("Cooper") wrote a collection of these poems named for the town of Olney.
  Part 3 (ans: Bede [or Saint Bede; or the Venerable Bede]):
    This writer is the namesake of an Old English "Death Song," which states "before the unavoidable journey," no one is wiser than he who ponders "good and evil within his soul."

[B2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A five-line poem attributed to this author states "none is wiser than the man who considers [...] what judgement his soul will receive after its passing". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bede [or Saint Bede or The Venerable Bede or Bede the Venerable or Beda Venerabilis]):
    Name this author who, according to Cuthbert, reportedly asked for "some pepper, and napkins, and some incense" before composing a poem on their deathbed on Ascension Day, 735.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [accept Anglo-Saxon; begrudgingly prompt on English]):
    Bede's death song is the poem in this language that survives in the largest number of manuscripts. The Exeter Book contains many poems in this language used to write Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: Widsith [accept far-traveller or wide-journey or "The Traveller's Song"]):
    The Exeter Book contains this 143-line poem which surveys the Heroic Age of Northern Europe. This poem gives a list of tribes and writes of how "Hrothwulf and Hrothgar held longest the kinship together".

[B3] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Peter Ackroyd argues that this event was neither an example of revenge nor a random event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Viking raid of Lindisfarne [accept answers describing the 793 Vikings sack Lindisfarne Abbey]):
    Identify this event that was supposedly preceded by "flashes of lightning" and "dragons flying in the air." After this event, Alcuin of York wondered how God let "so great a company of saints" to suffer.
  Part 2 (ans: The Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede; or Bede the Venerable]):
    Lindisfarne was first described as an abbey in this scholar's Ecclesiastical History of the English People. This saint is often referred to as "the father of English history."
  Part 3 (ans: relics):
    After raiding Lindisfarne, the Vikings took some of these objects belonging to St. Cuthbert. These objects are parts of the body or physical possessions of deceased holy figures used for veneration.

[B4] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: This author identified the Dioscuri with the Alci, whom he claimed that a priest of the Nahanarvali worshiped while dressed as a woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tacitus [or Publius Cornelius Tacitus]):
    Name this author who claimed that peoples like the Suebi sacrificed animals to Mars and Hercules in his ethnographic text Germania, which traces their descent from the divine Tuisto.
  Part 2 (ans:  interpretatio [or interpretatione; accept interpretatio romana or interpretatione romana; accept interpretatio graeca or interpretatione graeca; accept interpretatio germanica or interpretatione germanica]):
    Following Tacitus, this Latin noun precedes "romana" or "graeca" ("GRY-kah") to describe the identification of foreign gods with putative Greco-Roman equivalents. This noun precedes "germanica" in a converse translation of weekday names.
  Part 3 (ans: Bede [or the Venerable Bede, Bede the Venerable, Saint Bede, Bæda, Beda, or Beda Venerabilis]):
    This historian recorded belief in interpretatio christiana, the inculturation of pagan practices by missionaries. This "Venerable" English historian explained Easter customs with the Germanic goddess Eostre.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: When Gregory the Great learned that slaves from this kingdom were "Angles," he punned "more like angels, if they were Christian." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Deira [or Kingdom of Deira; or Deifr; accept Oswine of Deira; prompt on Northumbria; reject "Northumberland"] (Gregory thought Deira would be rescued de ira, or "from wrath.")):
    Name this kingdom that Gregory said would be rescued "from wrath" based on its name and should "sing Alleluia" because its king was Ælla in two more bad Latin puns. Oswiu tried to seize this kingdom from Oswine.
  Part 2 (ans: Bede [or Saint Bede; or the Venerable Bede; or Bede the Venerable]):
    Gregory the Great's puns are related in this author's Ecclesiastical History of the English People, which he wrote at a monastery in Jarrow in Northumbria.
  Part 3 (ans: Augustine [accept Saint Augustine of Hippo or Aurelius Augustinus or Aurelius Augustinus Hipponensis; accept Saint Augustine of Canterbury]):
    Gregory the Great sent a missionary of this name as his "Apostle to the English." Another saint with this name exchanged extensive correspondence with his student Quodvultdeus ("KWOAD-wult-DAY-oos"), whose name means "what God wills."

[B6] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: One of the four surviving manuscripts of poetry in this language ended up, for unknown reasons, in the Italian town of Vercelli ("ver-CHELL-ee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on English]):
    Name this language whose other poetic manuscripts include the Exeter Book. Beowulf was written in this language.
  Part 2 (ans: Nowell Codex [or Cotton MS Vitellius A XV]):
    Perhaps the best-known Old English poetic manuscript is this codex, which contains the only copy of Beowulf as well as a translation of Judith. The edges of its pages were burned in the 1731 Ashburnham House fire, from which most of it was narrowly saved.
  Part 3 (ans: The Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede or Bæda]):
    The oldest Old English poem, Caedmon's ("KIDE-mon's") Hymn, survives only in copies of this medieval scholar's work Ecclesiastical History of the English People.

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: This author praised "the man who considers...what good or evil he has done, and what judgement his soul will receive after its passing" in his five-line "Death Song." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede the Venerable]):
    Name this mentor of Alcuin of York. He preserved the legend of Caedmon and his namesake hymn in a history written in Jarrow.
  Part 2 (ans: alliteration [or alliterative verse]):
    Caedmon's Hymn, possibly the oldest surviving English poem, was one of the oldest poems to use this poetic device. This repetitive device, also used in the Poetic Edda, typically replaced rhyme in Old English poetry.
  Part 3 (ans: sermons [or homilies; or Sermo Lupi ad Anglos]):
    Along with saints' lives, these works make up the majority of surviving Old English prose. Examples of these works include one that Wulfstan punningly titled "Lupi ad Anglos," as well as Jonathan Edwards's much later "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."

[B8] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In "The Monsters and the Critics," J. R. R. Tolkien accepts "without argument" that Beowulf originated in an "age" named for this writer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Venerable Bede ("beed") [or Saint Bede; or Bede the Venerable or Beda Venerabilis]):
    Name this attributed author of a five-line "Death Song." This writer's magnum opus relates how the cowherd Caedmon ("CAD-mun") miraculously received the ability to sing to compose his namesake hymn, which this writer preserved.
  Part 2 (ans: dreams [accept The Dream of the Rood; prompt on sleeping]):
    In Bede's ("beedʼs") account, Caedmon ("CAD-mun") gained the ability to sing during one of these events. One of these events "of the Rood" titles a poem, attributed to Caedmon, in which the cross narrates Jesus's crucifixion.
  Part 3 (ans: riddles [prompt on puzzle or questions or brainteasers or similar]):
    Bede wrote texts of this type in the Aenigmata section of his Liber epigrammatum. "An onion" is the answer to a suggestive text of this kind in the Exeter Book, which likely inspired a contest of these things in The Hobbit.

[B9] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the spread of Christianity to the British Isles, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Synod of Whitby):
    At this 664 CE event, the Northumbrian king Oswiu chose to adhere to Roman conventions on tonsure and the proper day to observe Easter instead of those adhered to by monks from Iona.
  Part 2 (ans: Gregory [accept Gregory I or Gregory the Great]):
    A pope with this name directed Augustine to convert Aethelbert of Kent and establish Canterbury as the core of English Christianity. That "great" pope with this name legendarily convinced Augustine to convert a group of slaves, remarking they were "not Angles, but angels."
  Part 3 (ans: Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede or Beda Venerabilis; accept Bæda in place of "Bede"]):
    That quote and accounts of the Synod of Whitby are recorded in an Ecclesiastical History of the English People, produced by this "Venerable" Northumbrian monk.

[B10] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Religion
     Leadin: One step in this process is the drafting of a positio, which can run for thousands of pages. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: canonization [or making someone a Catholic saint; or making someone a candidate for canonization; accept Equipollent canonization; prompt on beatification]):
    Name this process overseen by officials with titles such as Promotor Fidei. An ad-hoc form of this process is described by the adjective Equipollent.
  Part 2 (ans: miracles):
    The canonization process requires the verification of two of these extraordinary events. A saint may have performed two of the quoad modum type of these actions wherein individuals are healed from long-term illnesses.
  Part 3 (ans: Venerable [or Venerabilis; accept Venerable Bede or Bede the Venerable]):
    People in between Servant of God and Blessed during the canonization process are described by this adjective, also used to describe a Benedictine monk who wrote a history of the English church in the 8th century.

[B11] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: A ruler of this kingdom named Oswiu called the Synod of Whitby to settle a long-standing controversy between Rome and some Irish monks by finally nailing down the date of Easter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kingdom of Northumbria):
    Name this member of the Heptarchy that initially formed from the Anglian kingdoms of Deira and Bernicia. This kingdom lost the Battles of Maserfield and Hatfield Chase to a neighboring state led by Penda.
  Part 2 (ans: Venerable Bede [accept Saint Bede; accept Baeda]):
    The Northumbrian Golden Age included this "venerable" monk who promoted the practice of dating years from Jesus's birth. This historian's masterwork chronicled Christianity's growth throughout the British Isles until 731.
  Part 3 (ans: Viking raids [accept attacks, invasions, incursions, or synonyms in place of "raids"; accept Norsemen, Norwegians, Danes, or Danish people in place of "Vikings"; prompt on answers mentioning raids by Swedes or Swedish people; prompt on heathens in place of "Vikings"]):
    Following some evil omens, the Northumbrian monastery of Lindisfarne was destroyed by one of these events in 793. These Scandinavian military campaigns often utilized so-called "berserkers" who travelled by longship.

[B12] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This author wrote a work that exalts Northumbria over Mercia and describes the conflict over the correct date of Easter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Venerable Bede):
    Name this "Venerable" man who is known as "the father of English history" for his An Ecclesiastical History of the British People, written in 732 AD.
  Part 2 (ans: Asser):
    This Welsh monk wrote a biography of Alfred the Great and helped the king in his translation of Boethius.
  Part 3 (ans: Alcuin of York [or Ealhwine; or Alhwin; or Alchoin]):
    Alfred's palace school was modeled on Charlemagne's, which was led by this English scholar from York.

[B13] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Religion
     Leadin: Holders of the "devil's advocate" position argue against conferring this status on a deceased individual. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sainthood [accept any answers indicating being a made a saint]):
    Name this status that the Catholic Church confers through canonization.
  Part 2 (ans: venerable [or Venerable; accept Venerable Bede]):
    Before canonization, a bishop declares a person to be a servant of God, and the Pope grants the individual this status. The term for this status is frequently used to identify the saint who wrote an Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
  Part 3 (ans: beatification (bee-AT-ification) [accept word forms like beatified]):
    Before canonization, an individual undergoes this process to be called "Blessed." To be considered for this process, a deceased individual must have performed at least one posthumous (POSS-chuh-miss) miracle.

[B14] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Variously attributed to Caedmon and Cynewulf, this poem is primarily preserved in the Vercelli Codex, and is thought to be one of the oldest surviving in the Old English corpus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dream of the Rood):
    Name this poem. Its first section describes the narrator's vision of the Cross, while its second part describes Christ's crucifixion from the perspective of the cross itself.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruthwell Cross):
    Predating any Old English manuscripts, this large eighth-century stone cross, named for the Scottish border town where it still stands, is believed to independently preserve part of The Dream of the Rood.
  Part 3 (ans: The Venerable Bede):
    The attribution of the poem to Caedmon is based primarily on circumstantial evidence in the Ecclesiastical History of the English People, a work by this "venerable" monk of Jarrow.

[B15] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The design of the "Celtic" cross used in Ireland was based on high crosses sculpted on this island, which had circles around them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iona):
    Name this island near Britain where Saint Columba founded a mission in the 6th century.
  Part 2 (ans: Easter [or Pascha; accept Easter Rising]):
    The Synod ("SIN-uhd") of Whitby rejected the methods of Iona in favor of those of Rome to determine the date of this event. A march on the General Post Office opened a rebellion named for this event.
  Part 3 (ans: The Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede]):
    The two main sources on the Synod of Whitby are the History of Wilfrid and this 8th-century author's Ecclesiastical History of the English People.

[B16] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The stories of Leir and Cymbeline were adapted by Shakespeare from this man's Historia Regum Brittaniae, or History of the Kings of Britain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey of Monmouth):
    Name this historian who began that text with the settling of Britain by Brutus, a great grandson of Aeneas.
  Part 2 (ans: Venerable Bede):
    The Synod of Whitby is discussed in the third book of this "venerable" man's An Ecclesiastical History of the British People, which was one of the primary sources for Geoffrey of Monmouth's chronicle.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Gildas):
    Another source used by Geoffrey of Monmouth was On the Ruin and Conquest of Briton, a description of the battles between the Britons and the Saxons by this 6th-century monk.

[B17] 2016 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2016) | Diff: 6 | Philosophy
     Leadin: A modern-day practitioner of this school of thought may be Gertrude Himmelfarb. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Whig history [or Whiggery]):
    Name this English school of thought whose name was coined by Herbert Butterfield. As seen in the writings of Thomas Macaulay, it believes that history is inevitably proceeding towards greater liberty and enlightenment.
  Part 2 (ans: Winston Churchill [or Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill]):
    This later historian was heavily Whig in nature and won a Nobel Prize for such histories as the four-volume A History of the English Speaking Peoples, finished in 1958, and his mammoth six-volume series titled The Second World War, which begins with The Gathering Storm.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Bede [or the Venerable Bede]):
    "The so-called "founder" of English history was this monk who wrote an 8th century ecclesiastical history of England and was known as "Venerable".

[B18] 2015 PACE NSC (2015) | Diff: 5 | History
     Leadin: One of these works was developed by the successors of Pseudo-Ingulf at the Croyland Abbey. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chronicles):
    Name this specific type of document. The E version of the "Anglo-Saxon" one of these documents concludes in the year 892.
  Part 2 (ans: Ireland [or Eire]):
    The "chronicle" of this country is a hypothesized collection of annals like the Annals of Ulster. The Annals of the Four Masters mentions Saint Patrick, who evangelized this island.
  Part 3 (ans: The Venerable Bede [or Baeda or Beda]):
    This "venerable" historian wrote about the proper date for Easter in his On the Reckoning of Time and chronicled English history from the days of Julius Caesar in his landmark Ecclesiastical History of the English People.

[B19] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these early British historians.
  Part 1 (ans: William of Malmesbury):
    This 12th-century author of The Deeds of the Kings of the English wrote his histories in an abbey in Wiltshire.
  Part 2 (ans: The Venerable Bede):
    William of Malmesbury was a great admirer of this earlier author of Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum, whom he positively gushed over in the preface to the Gesta regum.
  Part 3 (ans: St Gildas the Wise):
    A close friend of William wrote a Life of this "wise" 6th-century historian and saint, whose most famous work was a scathing polemic titled On the Ruin and Conquest of Britain.

[B20] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Leadin: Possible methods of resolving this problem include a cycle called the latercus and the Alexandrian computus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: calculating the date of Easter [accept equivalents such as when to celebrate Easter]):
    Name this millennia-long problem in Christianity that was resolved in the kingdom of Northumbria at the Synod of Whitby.
  Part 2 (ans: Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede; or Beda Venerabilis; or Baeda]):
    The Synod of Whitby is a central event in this saint's Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
  Part 3 (ans: Nisan):
    The First Council of Nicaea resolved an early Easter-date controversy by declaring that the holiday would no longer be calculated based on this Jewish month; the Quartodeciman controversy also concerned Christian practices aligned with this Jewish month.

[B21] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A boy was buried with his horse at this site's Mound 17. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sutton Hoo):
    Name this site of two ancient Anglo-Saxon cemeteries. Located near Woodbridge, one of those sites contained an undisturbed ship burial.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of East Anglia):
    It is thought that Raedwald, the ruler of this kingdom, ordered the ship burial. Initially ruled by the Wuffingas dynasty, this kingdom converted to Christianity during the rule of Sigeberht.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Bede [or the Venerable Bede]):
    This man's Ecclesiastical History of the English People is the source of much of our knowledge about the rise of Christianity in Britain. He is the only native of Great Britain to be made a Doctor of the Church.

[B22] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's only extant poem, a nine-line verse which opens "Now let me praise the creator of Heaven's kingdom", is known as his namesake "Hymn". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caedmon):
    Identify this illiterate cowherd who, while living at Whitby Abbey under St. Hilda, supposedly learned the art of song in a dream.
  Part 2 (ans: Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; prompt on "English"; do not accept any other type of English]):
    "Caedmon's Hymn" is one of the few extant works attributed to an author in this language, which was also used by Cynewulf and Alfred the Great. Changes in this language after the Norman Conquest led to its disappearance by the 12th century.
  Part 3 (ans: the Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede the Venerable]):
    The story of Caedmon was related in this "Venerable" monk's Ecclesiastical History of the English People.

[B23] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: He praised the peaceful rule of Edwin of Northumbria in one work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Venerable Bede [or Saint Bede]):
    Name this author of The Ecclesiastical History of the English People who operated out of a monastery in Wearmouth-Jarrow. He was declared a Doctor of the Church by Leo XIII.
  Part 2 (ans: Gregory I):
    The Venerable Bede wrote about missions sent to Britain by the first pope of this name. That man was known as the "Father of Christian Worship" for liturgical innovations and his namesake chant.
  Part 3 (ans: Angles [accept Anglians; do not accept "Anglos"]):
    Gregory's evangelism was inspired by seeing some slave boys of this Germanic tribe, which colonized post-Roman Britain and mixed with the Saxons.

[B24] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: One king of these people, Nechtan, asked the abbot Ceolfrid to send him masons to build a stone church. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Picts):
    Name this Dark Age ethnic group, who supposedly practiced matrilineal succession because they obtained Irish wives after leaving Scythia.
  Part 2 (ans: Venerable Bede [or Beda]):
    The story of Pictish matriliny comes from the first book of this esteemed eighth-century author's Ecclesiastical History of the English People.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Columba [or Colum Cille; or Colban; or Kolbjorn; do not accept "Columban" or "Columbanus"]):
    According to Bede, the northern Picts were converted to Christianity by this "famous Irish priest and abbot," who received the island of Iona as a gift from the Pictish king Brude.

[B25] 2012 Illinois Fall Tournament (2012) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, identify the following about calculating time during the pre-modern era.
  Part 1 (ans: astrolabes):
    This device, inspired by the ancients, consisted of four quadrants that had rotating parts which allowed one to locate the position of the stars and other celestial bodies. It allowed one to determine what time of day it was.
  Part 2 (ans: Venerable Bede):
    An exact way of calculating the change in the amount of daylight that existed per a given day was pioneered in this author's The Reckoning of Time. This monk is best known for his An Ecclesiastical History of the English Peoples.
  Part 3 (ans: Gregory [or Gregorian Calendar]):
    In 1582, a pope of this name reformed the then popular Julian calendar to account for eleven missing minutes at the end of each year.
