=== STOCK CLUES: Ford Madox Ford ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 23 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ford Madox Ford [or Joseph Leopold Ford Hermann Madox Hueffer] (Romance and The Inheritors were co-written with Joseph Conrad.)
  - A character based on the playwright Nicholas Udall tutors the protagonist of a trilogy by this author about Katharine Howard. [PWR]
  - It's not William Golding, but this [emphasize] English-born author co-wrote the novels Romance and The Inheritors.
  - In a novel by this author, Sylvia tries to destroy the Groby Great Tree after spying on her husband and his mistress Valentine Wannop. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, the narrator's wife commits suicide by drinking (*) prussic acid after seeing the title character with Nancy Rufford.
  - The "last Tory" Christopher Tietjens is the protagonist of a tetralogy by this author.
  - The sentence, "This is the saddest story I have ever heard" opens a novel by this author in which John Dowell recounts the suicide of Edward Ashburnam.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Parade's End and The Good Soldier. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer] (The first sentence is about Ladies Whose Bright Eyes.)
  - One of this author's protagonists realizes that he doesn't know how to make modern weaponry or a printing press after he ends up in the Medieval Era, but he's taken for a miracle-worker anyway because of his gold cross.
  - In a novel by this author, Sylvia plots to cut down the Great Tree of Groby, which is a symbol of her husband's family, after learning of his affair with the suffragette Valentine Wannop.
  - This author wrote a novel that begins with the line "This is the saddest story I have ever heard," in which John Dowell's wife Florence fakes a heart ailment to facilitate an extramarital affair.
  - For 10 points, name this novelist who wrote about the "last Tory" Christopher Tietjens  and the soldier Edward Ashburnham in Parade's End and The Good Soldier, respectively. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ford [or Richard Ford; or Ford Madox Ford]
  - A character created by an author with this surname becomes upset when his son is caught stealing boxes of Magnum condoms and moves from his contemplative "Existence Period" to his re-married "Permanent Period." An author with this surname wrote a novel in which a woman proudly declares that she has managed the Branshaw Estate to yield an annual income of five thousand pounds a year. [PWR]
  - It is the last name of the contemporary author who wrote about (*) Frank Bascombe in the novels The Sportswriter and Independence Day . [PWR]
  - A nine-year affair at the spa town of Nauheim forms the backdrop of a novel by a writer with this surname that begins with the line "This is the saddest story I have ever heard." For 10 points, give the surname of the author of The Good Soldier . [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ford Madox Ford
  - This author wrote about the Great Groby Tree, which symbolizes a family's curse, in a novel about the godson of General Campion.
  - In an oft-quoted comment, this novelist's friend John Rodker called one of his novels "the finest French novel in the English language." A woman created by this writer is averse to sex due to a strict Catholic upbringing, leading her to suggest the sexual union of her ward Nancy and her husband.
  - This writer created a man called "the last English Tory," who is constantly cheated on by his wife Sylvia, named Christopher Tietjens.
  - The narrator says, "This is the saddest story I have ever heard," at the beginning of his novel about Edward Ashburnham.
  - For 10 points, name this English author of Parade's End and The Good Soldier. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ford Madox Ford or Ford Hermann Hueffer
  - This author tried to market lit crit to the layman in The March of Literature, a tract dictated while he paced around Allen Tate's house as Robert Lowell heckled him while living like a hobo in a tent on the lawn. [PWR]
  - This author of the "Buckshee" poems created Arthur Etchingham Granger, who witnesses Fourth Dimensionalists run amok through the government.
  - A character in the most famous work by this founder of The English Review ends up repeating the word (*) "shuttlecocks," while another discovers that a vial of amyl nitrate actually contained cyanide, with which his wife commits suicide. [PWR]
  - Florence had been faking a heart ailment and having an affair with the title character, who slits his throat after speaking with John Dowell, who opens that novel by calling it "the saddest story I have ever heard." For 10 points, identify this author of Parade's End who created Edward Ashburnham in The Good Soldier. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was said to "scrutinize your face...as a watchmaker looks into the works of a watch" in a "Personal Remembrance" by an author who collaborated with him on The Nature of a Crime. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski] (The lead-in is from "Joseph Conrad: A Personal Remembrance" by Ford Madox Ford.)):
    Name this author, who collaborated with Ford Madox Ford on The Inheritors. Edward Said, who wrote about this author "and the Fiction of Autobiography," used this author as the epigraph to Culture and Imperialism.
  Part 2 (ans: Mr. Kurtz):
    In his memoir Out of Place, Said compares his long-lost uncle David to an "avatar of Conrad" and this character. In Heart of Darkness, this ivory trader whispers "The horror! The horror!" to Charles Marlow.
  Part 3 (ans: Nostromo: A Tale of the Seaboard):
    In Culture and Imperialism, Said uses this novel's character of Charles Gould to examine how Conrad was both anti-imperialist and imperialist. This novel's title character smuggles silver from a mine in Costaguana.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, the Old Man in the Corner deduces that a man poisoned his wife on a subway train using a spiked ring laced with prussic acid. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Baroness Emma Orczy [or Emmuska Orczy] (Blakeney's alter ego is The Scarlet Pimpernel)):
    Name this author who worked with her husband, Montagu, on a series about the nobleman Sir Percy Blakeney.
  Part 2 (ans: homosexual relationship [or same-sex; or lesbian; accept bisexual; accept gay; prompt on romantic relationship; prompt on sexual relationship]):
    A critic claimed that Radclyffe Hall's novel The Well of Loneliness was worse than "a phial of prussic acid" for describing this sort of relationship. In a Virginia Woolf novel, a flashback between Mrs. Dalloway and Sally Seton hints at this sort of relationship.
  Part 3 (ans: The Good Soldier (by Ford Madox Ford)):
    In this novel, Florence commits suicide by taking prussic acid, fearing the imminent collapse of her affair with Edward Ashburnham and of her marriage to John Dowell.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The poem "Sailing Home from Rapallo" compares this person's "Risorgimento black and gold casket" to "Napoleon's at the Invalides." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lowell's mother [or Charlotte Winslow Lowell; or Charlotte Winslow]):
    Name or describe this person, whose hatred of Navy life and habit of asking her son "A penny for your thoughts, Schopenhauer" were recounted in the prose poem "91 Revere Street."
  Part 2 (ans: "Skunk Hour"):
    "91 Revere Street" appears in Robert Lowell's Life Studies, which concludes with this poem. This poem laments that Nautilus Island has "lost our summer millionaire, who seemed to leap from an L. L. Bean catalogue."
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Madox Hueffer; or Ford Hermann Hueffer]):
    Another poem from Life Studies begins with the image of this author of the war poem "Antwerp" playing golf with David Lloyd George. This author wrote Parade's End and The Good Soldier.

[B4] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a scene from this book, the author shows F. Scott Fitzgerald statues at the Louvre to convince him that he is in fact adequately endowed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Moveable Feast):
    Name this memoir of an American author's time in Paris, which includes encounters with literati like Sylvia Beach and Gertrude Stein.
  Part 2 (ans: Ernest Hemingway [or Ernest Miller Hemingway]):
    This author of A Moveable Feast also fictionalized the American expat community of Paris in The Sun Also Rises.
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Joseph Leopold Ford Hermann Madox Hueffer]):
    In a memorably vitriolic scene, Hemingway tries not to lose his patience when this smelly author barges in on him in a cafe. With an older novelist, this author wrote about a secret interdimensional invasion in The Inheritors.

[B5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a dedication to his wife Stella Bowen, an author described how he had intended this phrase to title his "best book" but was urged otherwise by his publisher due to its association with "the darkest days of war." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the saddest story [accept "This is the saddest story I have ever heard"]):
    Give this two-word superlative, which appears in the first sentence of a novel subtitled "A Tale of Passion" before a description of a stay in Nauheim, where the narrator's wife feigns heart disease to conceal her affair.
  Part 2 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Madox Hueffer; or Ford Hermann Hueffer] (The novel is The Good Soldier.)):
    The line "this is the saddest story I have ever heard" opens this author's 1915 novel about the Dowells and the Ashburnhams. This author also wrote the Parade's End tetralogy.
  Part 3 (ans: W. Somerset Maugham [or William Somerset Maugham]):
    Arthur Mizener's biography The Saddest Story reads the character Florence Dowell as inspired by Ford's affair with Violet Hunt, who also inspired the adulterer Norah Nesbit in this author's novel Of Human Bondage.

[B6] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A story written in this manner ends with Sophonisba deciding to turn the title place into a hospital for sick children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: collaborative fiction [or word forms of collaboration; accept equivalents of being written by a group of or multiple authors; accept chain or mosaic writing] (The Inheritors is by Joseph Conrad and Ford Madox Ford.)):
    Identify this manner in which the 1858 story "A House to Let" was produced. This general method also produced a 1901 novel in which the Fourth Dimensionists plot to take over Earth, titled The Inheritors.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Dickens):
    This author collaborated with Adelaide Procter and Elizabeth Gaskell on "A House to Let" and published it in his magazine Household Words. He also wrote A Tale of Two Cities and Oliver Twist.
  Part 3 (ans: Wilkie Collins):
    This man was the fourth author of "A House to Let." He published many of his novels, including an early detective novel about Rachel Verinder's stolen diamond, in Charles Dickens's literary magazines.

[B7] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This character tries to consummate his relationship with the suffragette Valentine Wannop on Armistice Day; he fails when his manipulative wife Sylvia appears, says she has cancer, and throws herself down the stairs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Tietjens ("TEE-jens") [or Christopher Tietjens]):
    Name this devout Anglican, called "the most brilliant man in England," who works in the Imperial Department of Statistics. This man is the protagonist of the Parade's End tetralogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Ford Madox Ford):
    Christopher Tietjens is the protagonist of Parade's End, a tetralogy by this author of the modernist novel The Good Soldier.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Rhys):
    Tietjens' relationship with Valentine Wannop is partly based on Ford's relationship with this woman, who in turn fictionalized her relationship with Ford in her novel Quartet.

[B8] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Note: Don't use for Editors 3. This character often uses the phrase "pulling the strings of the shower-bath" to refer to his estranged wife's behavior. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Tietjens [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this brilliant government statistician whose relationships with his unfaithful wife Sylvia and the suffragette Valentine Wannop are the subject of a modernist tetralogy.
  Part 2 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer]):
    Christopher Tietjens is the protagonist of this author's Parade's End.
  Part 3 (ans: O Nine Morgan):
    In the second volume of the series, Tietjens is haunted by the death of this Welsh soldier, who is killed by shrapnel after Tietjens refuses to grant him leave to deal with his own unfaithful wife.

[B9] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An author compares Melville's writing to plum pudding while engaging in this pastime with the Austrian Kandinsky, who is only familiar with the author through some "rather obscene poems." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: big-game hunting [prompt on safari]):
    Name this pastime whose description is interrupted by various literary musings in the book Green Hills of Africa, based on a 1933 trip taken with its author's wife Pauline Pfeiffer ("FY-fur").
  Part 2 (ans: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn):
    In probably the book's most famous passage, Ernest Hemingway declares that "all modern American literature comes from" this book, whose real ending he claims is when the slave Jim is stolen, as "the rest is just cheating."
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Ford):
    Hemingway's frustration with this person is conveyed in two different vignettes from A Moveable Feast, one pairing him with "the Devil's Disciple," and the other describing his "Acrid Smell of Lies," despite this man's help in popularizing Hemingway through his editorship of The Transatlantic Review.

[B10] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these pieces that accompanies A Personal Record states the author's conviction that the world "rests on a few very simple ideas," particularly the "idea of Fidelity." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: prefaces by Joseph Conrad [accept specifically the preface to (The Nigger of the) Narcissus; prompt on partial or less-specific answers such as "prefaces" or "Conrad's essays"]):
    Name these writings, one of which is often called a manifesto of literary impressionism; that one declares that "my task which I am trying to achieve . . . is before all, to make you see."
  Part 2 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Madox Hueffer; or Ford Hermann Hueffer]):
    More explicitly than Conrad did in his preface to The Narcissus, this friend of and collaborator with Conrad championed literary impressionism and attempted to use it in his novel The Good Soldier.
  Part 3 (ans: Costaguana):
    In a surprising bit of metafiction, Conrad's preface to Nostromo attributes his knowledge of this fictional South American country, Nostromo's setting, to a book by the character Don Jose Avellanos. Juan Gabriel Vasquez wrote "The Secret History of" this country.

[B11] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these British authors who wrote novels about the aftereffects of World War I, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer; or Ford Madox Hueffer]):
    This writer's tetralogy Parade's End relates the story of Christopher Tietjens (TEE-chins), whose experiences in the war include watching his friend's leg get blown off by a mortar shell. Another of his novels is about Edward Ashburnham.
  Part 2 (ans: Virginia Woolf):
    Septimus Smith suffers from posttraumatic stress disorder and commits suicide by jumping from a window in this female author's novel Mrs. Dalloway.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Lloyd Carr [or James Carr]):
    World War I veteran Tom Birkin struggles with his spiritual views while restoring a church in this eccentric writer's Booker Prize-nominated book A Month in the Country. He also founded the Quince Tree Press publishing company.

[B12] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by these two authors, a lawyer feels guilty for having gambled away the money given to him by his client Edward Burden, but stops himself from committing suicide at the last minute by life's simple delights, like watching a cat chasing a milkman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ford Madox Ford and Joseph Conrad [or Ford Hermann Hueffer and Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski; both are required, prompt on partial answer]):
    Identify these two authors who collaborated on The Nature of a Crime, as well as on a science fiction novel in which people from the Fourth Dimension aim to take over the Earth, titled The Inheritors.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Garnett [or Edward William Garnett]):
    Conrad complained that he had to make Ford rewrite most chapters of The Inheritors three times over in a letter to this literary editor, who had brought the two authors together. This man launched D.H. Lawrence's career by cutting roughly a tenth of Sons and Lovers to get it to a publishable form.
  Part 3 (ans: Heart of Darkness):
    Ford urged Conrad to scrap the sentence "Nobody moved for a time" in the last paragraph of this novel, which comes soon after Marlow lies to Kurtz's widow that his final words were her name, rather than "The horror! The horror!"

[B13] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A subplot in this novel is set in 1978 and concerns garment-worker Elizabeth Benson's attempt to understand her grandfather's life by decoding some diaries she finds in an attic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Birdsong):
    Name this novel about Stephen Wraysford's affair with Isabelle Azaire at the outset of World War I, the middle entry of the France trilogy by Sebastian Faulks.
  Part 2 (ans: Ford Madox Ford):
    Christopher Tietjens composes a sonnet to distract McKetchie while issuing an order to mobilize nearly 3000 soldiers during the war in the second entry of this author's series Parade's End.
  Part 3 (ans: W. Somerset Maugham [or William Somerset Maugham]):
    This author drew on his experience serving in the British Intelligence during the war to write Ashenden, but is better known for his novels The Moon and Sixpence and Of Human Bondage.

[B14] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author helped popularize many early 20th century Anglophone authors with his journals The English Review and The Transatlantic Review. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer]):
    Name this English author of the Parade's End tetralogy, whose novel The Good Soldier was called "the finest French novel in the English language".
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Tietjens [accept either underlined portion]):
    Ford's Parade's End novels recount the life of this "last Tory," a statistician serving in the British army during World War I. He escapes his intensely unpleasant marriage through an affair with Valentine Wannop.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry James):
    The English Review's first issue included "The Jolly Corner", a short story by this author of The Golden Bowl and Portrait of a Lady.

[B15] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel opens with the line "This is the saddest story I have ever heard". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Good Soldier):
    Name this novel about the philandering Captain Edward Ashburnham, narrated by John Dowell, whose wife Florence pretends to have a heart ailment
  Part 2 (ans: Ford Madox Ford):
    The Good Soldier was written by this English author of the Parade's End tetralogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Atonement):
    Another literary British soldier, Robbie Turner, is sent to prison when Briony Tallis falsely accuses him of rape in this 2001 novel.

[B16] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Sherlock fans might be delighted to know that Benedict Cumberbatch has been given the lead role in Sir Tom Stoppard's BBC adaptation of this novel cycle, in which a statistician romances a young suffragette named Valentine Wannop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Parade's End ):
    Name this tetralogy about Christopher Tietjens, the last Tory.
  Part 2 (ans: A Man Could Stand Up-):
    This third volume of Parade's End is set on Armistice Day, where the streets are littered with celebrations and celebratory fireworks while Tietjens gets drunk with Valentine and her mother, who is determined to separate the two.
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer]):
    Parade's End and The Good Soldier were written by this author, a close friend and collaborator of Joseph Conrad's.
