=== STOCK CLUES: Parade's End ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Parade's End
  - A character in this series falls in love with the wife of an insane man because of their mutual interest in the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. [PWR]
  - In this series, two characters play a game wherein one of them composes a sonnet and then the other one translates it into Latin. [PWR]
  - Its protagonist is angered by the cutting down of his ancestral symbol, the Great Tree of Groby, and witnesses the gruesome death of (*) O-9 Morgan to a mortar shell. [PWR]
  - In this series, two suffragettes harass a minister on a golf course, leading to the protagonist bonding with Valentine Wannop.
  - Tom Stoppard wrote the screenplay for a 2012 television adaptation of this series, whose final book is Last Post.
  - In it, Sylvia torments her dutifully rational husband, Christopher Tietjens.
  - For 10 points, name this tetralogy by Ford Madox Ford. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While working for the War Propaganda Bureau during the First World War, this author wrote the propaganda book When Blood is Their Argument: an Analysis on Prussian Culture . For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ford Madox  Ford [or Joseph Leopold Ford Hermann Madox  Huefier ]):
    Name this novelist, who used the line "This is the saddest story I have ever heard" to open his 1915 novel The Good Soldier .
  Part 2 (ans:  Parade's End):
    Ford's First World War experiences inspired him to write this tetralogy of novels about the "last Tory" Christopher Tietjens ("TEET-yenz"), who works as a statistician before serving in the army.
  Part 3 (ans: May  Sinclair [or Mary Amelia St.  Clair ]):
    This close friend of Ford wrote the First World War poem "Field Ambulance in Retreat . " This author of The New Idealism first used the phrase "stream of consciousness" in a literary context in a review of Dorothy Richardson's Pilgrimage .

[B2] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This series concludes in 1968, where the Charles Manson analogue Murtlock recruits several descendants of the central family to his cult. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Dance to the Music of Time):
    Name this novel cycle which follows the families of Kenneth Widmerpool and Nicholas Jenkins, beginning in 1921 with A Question of Upbringing.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexandria):
    Another British novel series is Lawrence Durrell's "Quartet" set in this cosmopolitan city, where Constantine Cafauvy also lived.
  Part 3 (ans: Parade's End):
    This other British novel series is about a character who saves the life of Second Lieutenant Aranjuez and refuses to let O Nine Morgan leave the army because he knows his wife is cheating on him with a murderous boxer.

[B3] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Sherlock fans might be delighted to know that Benedict Cumberbatch has been given the lead role in Sir Tom Stoppard's BBC adaptation of this novel cycle, in which a statistician romances a young suffragette named Valentine Wannop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Parade's End ):
    Name this tetralogy about Christopher Tietjens, the last Tory.
  Part 2 (ans: A Man Could Stand Up-):
    This third volume of Parade's End is set on Armistice Day, where the streets are littered with celebrations and celebratory fireworks while Tietjens gets drunk with Valentine and her mother, who is determined to separate the two.
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer]):
    Parade's End and The Good Soldier were written by this author, a close friend and collaborator of Joseph Conrad's.
