=== STOCK CLUES: John Ford ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 27 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 Reel Knowledge (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: John Ford
  - Though he later refused to talk about his work at all, this director used the term "invisible technique" to describe his style. [PWR]
  - This director created a scene where the camera spends half a minute showing an Austrian immigrant dancing in the window of a music hall playing a waltz. [PWR]
  - This director's career surged after he made a massive historical epic that depicts the work of Irish, Italian, and Chinese immigrants along with African-Americans in building the first transcontinental railroad.
  - This director frequently used shots of trains, boats, or wagons to begin and end films like The Sun Shines Bright and (*) Doctor Bull. [PWR]
  - In a film by this director, a character lampoons the myths around American history when he says "when the legend becomes fact, print the legend".
  - The iconic last shot of one of this director's films shows Ethan Edwards look into the door of his brother's old house, but then turn and walk away.
  - For 10 points, identify this influential American director known for directing Westerns like The Searchers and Stagecoach starring John Wayne. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Ford
  - In a play by this dramatist, a woman sings in Italian as her husband pulls her hair and threatens to stab her if she doesn't reveal who has impregnated her.
  - In that play by this dramatist, a man declares "the hapless fruit... hath had from me a cradle and a grave" after he stabs a woman's womb.
  - This dramatist created a servant who pretends to be disloyal to his master, encouraging Hippolita in a plot that ends with her poisoning herself at a wedding.
  - This author of The Broken Heart included a scene in which Vasques stabs out the eyes of a bawdy servant in a play that details the consequences of Annabella and Giovanni's incestuous affair.
  - For 10 points, name this Jacobean playwright of 'Tis Pity She's a Whore. [GIVE]

[T3] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: John Ford [2]
  - In one film by this director, a black character named Pompey recites the Declaration of Independence while standing in front of a portrait of Lincoln. [PWR]
  - The title character of that film shoots a can of paint, which explodes over his romantic rival. [PWR]
  - In that film by this director, a printing press is destroyed by a villain who also assaults the lawyer Rance Stoddard with his trademark whip. [PWR]
  - In another of this man's films, Sean Thornton returns to his home country of Ireland and hides his past life as a boxer who accidentally killed an opponent.
  - This man's most famous film begins and (*) ends with shots of a man framed by a cabin door.
  - Tom Doniphon, a rancher who addresses Jimmy Stewart's character as "pilgrim," kills the title outlaw in a film by this director of The Quiet Man.
  - In another of his films, Ethan obsessively seeks his niece Debbie, who was captured by the Comanche.
  - For 10 points, name this director who filmed John Wayne in Westerns like The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and The Searchers. [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: John Ford
  - In a play by this author, a condemned man draws a cross on the face of his accuser.
  - In another, a servant relates how his master compared a woman to parmesan cheese and leaves to see a horse with its head on its rear.
  - A play by this author ends with Lady Katherine being offered a pension and her husband, the title character, refusing to confess despite the advice of a falconer.
  - This author wrote about a woman who pretends to be sick from eating melons in one play.
  - Later in that play, another woman appears as a masked dancer at her lover's wedding, where she is poisoned by the wine she intended for him.
  - In a play by this author of Perkin Warbeck, the Cardinal delivers the title line after Giovanni appears with his sister's heart on a dagger.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright of Tis Pity She's a Whore. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about deep focus cinematography, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Texas [or TX]):
    Chinese-American cinematographer James Wong Howe won an Oscar for his deep focus imagery of this state for the film Hud. Roger Deakins shot the Coen brothers' film No Country for Old Men, which is set in this state.
  Part 2 (ans: Gregg Toland [or Gregg Wesley Toland]):
    The critic Andre Bazin admired this cinematographer's deep focus shots in William Wyler films like The Best Years of Our Lives. Orson Welles praised this cinematographer's visual innovations on his film Citizen Kane.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ford [or John Martin Feeney]):
    Toland refined his deep focus craft on this director's film of The Grapes of Wrath. My Darling Clementine is among the many films this director shot in Monument Valley.

[B2] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Lancashire-set play titled for these people written by Thomas Heywood and Richard Brome, Generous finds his wedding ring on the severed paw of a cat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: witches [accept The Witch of Edmonton; accept The Late Lancashire Witches]):
    Name these people. In a play titled for one of these people, the appearance of the character Tom onstage causes Frank Thorney to stab Susan, the girl his father wants him to marry.
  Part 2 (ans: John Ford (The other play is 'Tis Pity She's a Whore.)):
    The Witch of Edmonton was a collaboration between William Rowley, Thomas Dekker, and this author. In a different play by this author, Giovanni walks into a banquet with his sister's heart skewered on his dagger.
  Part 3 (ans: Macbeth [or The Tragedie of Macbeth]):
    Songs from Thomas Middleton's play The Witch are believed to have been edited into the Folio edition of this Shakespeare tragedy, in which they are sung by the Weird Sisters.

[B3] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This golden age director's distinctive landscape shots were partly due to the work of cinematographer Gregg Toland. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ford [or John Martin Feeney or Sean Aloysius O'Feeney]):
    Name this director. In 1940, he partnered with Toland for The Long Voyage Home, an adaptation of three Eugene O'Neill plays, and an adaptation of The Grapes of Wrath.
  Part 2 (ans: Citizen Kane):
    The next year, Toland partnered with Orson Welles on this 1941 film, which follows the story of a journalist trying to figure out the identity of the sled Rosebud.
  Part 3 (ans: deep focus cinematography):
    Toland's work on The Long Voyage Home and Citizen Kane was notable for pioneering this cinematographic technique, which keeps the foreground, middle ground and background all clearly visible. A specific two-word term is required.

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play, the protagonists realize upon hearing muffled pipe music that this group has stowed away in barrels on a ship bound for England. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Players from Hamlet [or the actors from Hamlet; or the actors in The Murder of Gonzago; or the Tragedians from Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead; prompt on players or actors or tragedians by asking, "From what play?"]):
    Identify this group of characters, which mocks the mortality of two men who eventually disappear from view. In another play, the protagonist decides to use these characters to "catch the conscience of the king."
  Part 2 (ans: Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]):
    This playwright examined Hamlet's metatheatrical elements in his absurdist tragicomedy Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. He also wrote Arcadia.
  Part 3 (ans: 'Tis Pity She's a Whore (by John Ford)):
    In Stoppard's play The Real Thing, Annie's relationship with the director Henry sours when she is cast as this play's lead. Hippolita tries to poison her ex-lover at his wedding in this play, but instead dies of poison herself.

[B5] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this film, overtone singing accompanies a scene in which several men don walrus teeth to exorcise an evil shaman, who vanishes into thin air. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Atanarjuat: The Fast Runner):
    Name this film in which Oki and his friends pursue a butt-naked man across a plain before he escapes by jumping across a crack in the ice. It is the only Canadian film to ever win the Camera d'Or at Cannes.
  Part 2 (ans: Inuit [or Inuuk; prompt on Eskimos or First Peoples; reject "First Nations"]):
    Atanarjuat was the first major film to have a cast entirely of this ethnicity and dialogue entirely in its language. A family of this ethnicity is depicted in Robert Flaherty's partly-staged documentary Nanook of the North.
  Part 3 (ans: The Searchers [or Maliglutit] (The original is by John Ford.)):
    The director of Atanarjuat, Zacharias Kunuk, also made an adaptation of this film centered on the hunter Kuanana. This film's protagonist often remarks "That'll be the day" to his companion Martin Pawley, played by a young Jeffrey Hunter.

[B6] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This theorist claimed that the human drive to create art sprang from our need to protect the physical body from death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Bazin):
    Name this influential film critic who posited the "mummy complex" in "The Ontology of the Photographic Image," an essay from his collection What is Cinema? Truffaut wrote for this man's magazine, Cahiers du Cinema.
  Part 2 (ans: the auteur theory):
    Under Bazin's tutelage, Truffaut and the other Cahiers writers came up with this film theory concept, in which the director is recognized as the primary author of a film text. Its shares its name with the French word for "author."
  Part 3 (ans: John Ford):
    To demonstrate auteur theory, the editors of Cahiers du Cinema wrote an analysis of this director's film Young Mr. Lincoln. This director of The Grapes of Wrath also made a film that begins and ends with shots of John Wayne's character framed in a cabin's doorway.

[B7] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's suitors include Bergetta and Grimaldi, and writes a letter in her blood warning her lover of impending danger. For ten points,
  Part 1 (ans: Annabella):
    This character marries Soranzo on advice from Friar Bonaventura, yet still continues her incestuous relationship with her brother Giovanni, encouraged by a woman who later has her eyes gouged out.
  Part 2 (ans: John Ford):
    This Jacobean dramatist wrote plays such as The Broken Heart and Perkin Warbeck as well as creating Annabella in 'Tis Pity She's a Whore.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes):
    The slightly more comic Ford play The Spanish Gypsy, likely a collaboration with several other dramatists, was based on the Novelas Ejemplares by this author of Don Quixote.

[B8] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one of this man's films, the protagonist, Ethan Edwards, tries to shoot his daughter when she says she wants to join her kidnappers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ford):
    Name this director of The Searchers.
  Part 2 (ans: Westerns):
    John Ford's The Searchers and Stagecoach are classics of this American film genre, starring John Wayne.
  Part 3 (ans: doorways [accept clear equivalents; prompt on answers like "thresholds" or "entrances"]):
    The Searchers begins and ends with silhouetted shots of people walking away from this kind of structure, which is also a major motif in Stagecoach.

[B9] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: This film begins with Jimmy Stewart's character Ranse Stoddard coming back to a town to attend the funeral of his friend Tom Doniphon, who perpetrated the title act. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Man who Shot Liberty Valance):
    Name this Western in which Stoddard, now a senator, reflects on how the title event shaped his political career and provided order to the town of Shinbone.
  Part 2 (ans: John Ford [or John Martin Feeney]):
    The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance was directed by this man, whose other westerns include Stagecoach and The Searchers. He also directed The Grapes of Wrath and the Oscar-winning How Green Was My Valley.
  Part 3 (ans: print the legend):
    After discovering who really was the man who shot Liberty Valance, Carleton Young's character burns his notes saying that "When the legend becomes fact", this should be done. The exact three-word phrase is required.

[B10] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Vasques secretly poisons Hippolita's wine at the wedding of Soranzo and this character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annabella):
    Name this character that marries Soranzo on the advice of Friar Bonaventura but is killed by Giovanni, her brother with whom she had an incestuous affair.
  Part 2 (ans: John Ford):
    Annabella is the title character in Tis Pity She's a Whore, by this Jacobean dramatist of The Broken Heart.
  Part 3 (ans: Love's Sacrifice):
    In this John Ford play based on the murders committed by the composer Carlo Gesualdo, Fiormonda tells her brother, Philippo Caraffa, about the mutual attraction between his wife, Bianca, and Fernando.

[B11] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following about revenge plays, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Hamlet, Prince of Denmark):
    The title character of this Shakespeare play gets his revenge on King Claudius, but dies for his trouble. So do Ophelia, Gertrude, Laertes, Polonius, and others--it gets messy.
  Part 2 (ans: The Spanish Tragedy; or Hieronimo is Mad Againe):
    In this Thomas Kyd drama, the ghost of Don Andrea and the personification of Revenge form the chorus and watch Hieronimo and Bel-Imperia engineer the murder of Balthazar.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ford):
    Spain was also the setting for The Spanish Gipsy, written by Thomas Middleton, William Rowley, and possibly this other author. He definitely wrote a play about Giovanni and Annabella's incestuous relationship titled 'Tis Pity She's a Whore.
