=== STOCK CLUES: Leone ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 78 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 The Geography Front (2024) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: Lioness Mountains (Accept Sierra Lyoa or Sierra Leona or Sierra Leone)
  - The winds Notus and Afer are said to be "black with thunderous clouds" from this mountain range in Book 10 of Paradise Lost, a description which follows an account of a voyage which named their northern terminus Cap Liedo, and a southern offshore continuation of them the Salvezze Archipelago. [PWR]
  - That southern continuum of these mountains is today named the Banana Islands. [PWR]
  - The Guma Reservoir in these mountains is a source of ferroplatinum, part of a layered mafic complex which also includes the Big Water platinum mine. [PWR]
  - The (*) Temne People refer to these mountains as the Romarong, and to the river that defines their eastern flank Mitomba.
  - That river, which now shares its name with these mountains, may be the crocodile-and hippopotamus-populated Bambotus described by an earlier explorer.
  - Black Johnson and Pickett Hill are the highest points in this range whose Sugar Loaf Hill collapsed in a 2017 landslide which buried the suburb of Regent Town.
  - The foothills of these mountains include Tower Hill, which is home to a national parliament and state house.
  - FTP, name this mountain range on the Western Area Peninsula believed to have been named either for its shape or for the echoing roar of storms on its summits, which makes up the bulk of the peninsula containing its namesake nation's capital, Freetown?

[T2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sergio [accept Sergio Sollima; accept Sergio Corbucci; accept Sergio Leone]
  - A director with this first name made the film Run, Man, Run as a sequel to a film in which Corbett hunts down a falsely accused murderer. [PWR]
  - In a film by a director with this first name, a major shoots the four points of a cross in a graveyard while taunting the injured protagonist, who had saved the prostitute Maria from crucifixion. [PWR]
  - In a film by a director with this first name, a cannonball fired through a wall narrowly saves the protagonist from being hanged by his former partner in a scam to (*) collect bounty money. [PWR]
  - This first name is shared by the director of the Franco Nero film Django and by the director of a film that climaxes in a standoff at the Sad Hill Cemetery between Tuco, Angel Eyes, and Blondie set to Ennio Morricone's "The Ecstasy of Gold." For 10 points, give this first name of the director of the Spaghetti Western The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Sierra Leone [or Salone; accept Freetown or Province of Freedom; accept Granville Town until "Granville" is read; accept Sierra Leone Colony (and Protectorate), Sierra Leone Protectorate, Colony of Sierra Leone and its Dependencies, Sierra Leone Company, or Friendly Society of Sierra Leone; prompt on British West Africa or British West African Settlements or British West African Territories] (The West Africa Squadron formed after the Slave Trade Act 1807.)
  - J.
  - F.
  - Easmon treated this colony's rampant "blackwater fever" a century after Anna Maria Falconbridge narrated "two voyages" during its deadly rainy seasons.
  - Jamaican Maroons crushed a Methodist rebellion against this colony's monopolistic namesake company, which bought land from Naimbana of Koya around the Rice Coast's cotton tree.
  - This colony's Anglican Fourah Bay College educated Samuel Ajayi Crowther and Africanus Horton.
  - Bai Bureh led 1898 resistance to a hut tax in this colony, which was conceived by Granville Sharp to relieve London's poor.
  - This colony's Vice-Admiralty Court judged the Preventative Squadron's "recaptives" after an 1807 act.
  - Thomas Peters, a founder of this colony's Krio elite, left Nova Scotia in 1792.
  - For 10 points, 35 Amistad mutineers and many Black Loyalists resettled what British colony bordering Liberia? [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 On Cinema at the Buzzer (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Kay Adams-Corleone [or Katherine Adams-Corleone; accept any underlined portion]
  - This character twice asks "When will I see you again?" during a tense hotel room dinner with Irving Berlin's "All of My Life" in the background.
  - This character asks if her boyfriend would prefer her as a nun or as Ingrid Bergman after they see The Bells of St. [PWR]
  - Mary's at Radio City Music Hall.
  - During a performance of the song "I Have But One Heart," this character is told the story of how the singer's bandleader was convinced to let him go.
  - This character calls her marriage "something that's (*) unholy and evil" while telling her husband that she aborted their son.
  - In the last scene of a film, this woman asks her husband "Is it true?" after Connie accuses him of killing Carlo, just before an office door closes on this woman.
  - For 10 points, name this wife of Michael Corleone in the Godfather films. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Napoleon Bonaparte [accept Napoleon Bonaparte; accept Napoleon I; accept Napoleone Buonaparte; prompt on Bonaparte]
  - This ruler's forces captured the "ship" Diamond Rock, an actual rock fortified to blockade a Caribbean harbor.
  - This ruler secured a trade relationship with Ghalib ibn Musa'id by promising to revive grain shipments to his territory. [PWR]
  - A letter from this man to another ruler claimed that he had a "vast and invincible army, filled with the desire to save you from the iron yoke" of another power, but it was intercepted at (*) Muscat. [PWR]
  - Though its terms were never enacted, this ruler signed the Treaty of Finckenstein with Fath Ali Shah. [PWR]
  - De jure control was transferred [emphasize] to this man's country, then to another country, within two days as part of a ceremony remembered as (*) Three Flags Day during a land sale under his rule.
  - A campaign initiated by this man ended when his subordinate Jacques-Francois de Menou surrendered in the Capitulation of Alexandria.
  - For 10 points, who was this man, who sought to disrupt British colonial interests in South Asia with his 1798 invasion of Egypt? [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 The Geography Front (2021) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: Diamonds from Sierra Leone
  - The confluence of the Bafi and Bagbe Rivers is one of the more accessible sources of this mineral in this country.
  - The main producer of this commodity's Bombali District is a mine at Makeni.
  - The falls of the Sewa River are a fruitful source of its detrital form.
  - Members of the Themne and Mende ethnic groups have been displaced by the extraction of this mineral in this country.
  - The Yenguema (yen-GWE-ma) Mine in the district of Kono is a source of this mineral, which is north of the Tongo-Tonguma field, its nation's largest commercial operation.
  - Much of this mineral is sourced in this country's Eastern Province at Kenema, as well as the Southern Province around the city of Bo.
  - Foday Sankoh became a leader of this industry in this country despite a death sentence for crimes against humanity.
  - For 10 points, name this once nationalized mineral often traded for weapons in this country, an example of which was a 900-carat specimen from Koidu known as its country's "star." [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon I; or Napoleone di Buonaparte]
  - A letter that this man sent to the Egyptian people was dissected and critiqued in a long response by al-Jabarti.
  - This man appears on the right-hand side of James Gillray's political cartoon The Plumb-pudding in danger, in which he and another world leader carve up a globe.
  - Contrasting this man's ascent to power with that of his nephew led Karl Marx to write that history repeats itself "the first time as tragedy, the second time as farce." This man and Mikhail Kutuzov both claimed victory after a battle in which this man refused to commit his Imperial Guard.
  - That decision may have resulted in this man's defeat in the War of the Sixth Coalition after losing much of his forces at the Battle of Borodino.
  - For 10 points, name this French general who was exiled to Saint Helena  after losing the Battle of Waterloo. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Answer: Republic of Sierra Leone [prompt on Salone]
  - Outside of England, a small evangelical sect called "Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion" only has a current notable presence in this country.
  - An ethnic group in this country held celebrations in which they mocked European practices, called "Koonkings." This country's capital is home to "King's Gate," which bears an inscription that "any slave who passes through this gate is declared a free man." This country's capital was founded under its Cotton Tree.
  - This country's largest ethnic groups are the Mende (MEN-day) and Temne (TAME-neh).
  - A small minority in this country are Krio people descended from Black Loyalists and other freedmen who returned here called the Nova Scotia Settlers.
  - The Moa River forms part of this country's border with Guinea and Liberia.
  - For 10 points, name this west African country whose capital is Freetown. [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Napoleon Bonaparte [accept either name; or Napoleon I; or Napoleone di Buonaparte]
  - In one work, a story is told about a character who spared this man's life when he fainted, only for this man to fail to spare him in return; that work describes this man sitting on a log ordering men to cross a river and not watching as they drown. [PWR]
  - An author who poked fun at "The Second Funeral" of this man also created a woman who profits from selling her horse at inflated prices to Joseph Sedley during a panic caused by his actions.
  - A would-be Freemason symbolically proves this man is the (*) Antichrist and tries to assassinate him in a novel that uses him as an instance of a historical "great man." Dostoevsky's Raskolnikov claims that he wants to become like this man, whom Pierre Bezukhov seeks to kill. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Frenchman who is fought at Borodino in the novel War and Peace. [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon I; or Napoleone Buonaparte; accept Napoleon Crossing the Alps or Napoleon at the Saint-Bernard Pass; prompt on "Bonaparte" or "Buonaparte"]
  - This man's love of James Macpherson's Ossian poems prompted him to commission the painting Ossian Conjures up the Ghosts of his Race on the Banks of the Lora, as well as a painting in which Ossian welcomes "heroes . . . who died for their homeland in the war of liberty" into paradise.
  - This man's dislike of neoclassical themes dominated by mythology and allegory prompted him to order a painter to remove the figure of Victory hovering over the soldiers depicted in the painting Distribution of the Eagle Standards.
  - Because this man had poor eyesight, he chose paintings for his own collection based on the judgment of Baron Denon (deh-NOHN).
  - Denon was appointed to head a museum that this man renamed after himself after this man ordered a campaign that captured many artifacts from Egypt.
  - For 10 points, name this former namesake of the Louvre whom Jacques-Louis David painted at the Saint-Bernard Pass "crossing the Alps." [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Sierra Leone
  - A group based in this country supposedly rubbed cocaine into their soldiers' open cuts to make them fearless during fighting. [PWR]
  - Loyalists from this country's army supported that group during a looting spree colloquially known as "Operation Pay Yourself." This country's capital was evacuated by British forces in Operation Palliser.
  - The memoir A Long Way Gone by (*) Ishmael Beah describes this country's civil war, which led to the signing of the Lome Accords.
  - Foday Sankoh led a rebel group in this country that was supported by a neighboring country's NPFL under Charles Taylor.
  - That group, the Revolutionary United Front, used child soldiers to mine diamonds during this country's civil war.
  - For 10 points, name this southeastern neighbor of Liberia led from Freetown. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Sierra Leone
  - In 2000, the British military was horrified to discover that it had paid for the retraining of an infamous sadist from this country, a female militia leader named Adama Cut-Hands.
  - A rebel leader from this country was fond of giving menacing colloquial nicknames to military actions, like "Operation Pay Yourself" and "Operation No Living Thing." This country used IMF funds to pay South African mercenary firm Executive Outcomes to terrorize its citizens.
  - The Abidjan and Lome Accords attempted to end a civil war in this country driven by Foday Sankoh and the Revolutionary United Front, backed by Liberia under Charles Taylor.
  - For 10 points, name this West African country whose rich diamond mines have led to various wars to control Freetown. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Napoleon Bonaparte [accept either underlined; or Napoleon I of France; or Napoleone di Buonaparte accept either underlined]
  - In one military campaign, this man marched his army through the Franconian Forest to the Saale River, catching an enemy rearguard commanded by Hohenlohe. [PWR]
  - After being checked at Maloyaroslavets, he abandoned his troops by hurrying to his capital to suppress the Malet conspiracy. [PWR]
  - He won a victory at Vauchamps and three other battles in rapid succession in the Six Days Campaign but failed to stop the (*) Senat Conservateur from removing him. [PWR]
  - He retained the right to nominate bishops in a reconciliation with Pope Pius VII and won a pyrrhic victory over Kutuzov at Borodino before embarking on a retreat that triggered the War of the Sixth Coalition.
  - For 10 points, name this man who was exiled to Elba following the French invasion of Russia and then ultimately defeated at the Battle of Waterloo. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In this colony, Pedro Blanco ran an illegal Spanish slave-trading operation at Lomboko on the Gallinas River in the 1820s and 1830s despite the efforts of the West Africa Squadron. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sierra Leone):
    Name this colony whose indigenous Mende people lived alongside the Krio descendants of immigrants from Cudjoe's Town as well as the founders of a settlement named after Granville Sharp.
  Part 2 (ans: La Amistad):
    Mende captives sold by Pedro Blanco staged a revolt on this Cuban slave ship in 1839. John Quincy Adams defended the captives from this ship, including Joseph Cinque, in their successful freedom suit with British support.
  Part 3 (ans: Year of the Lash [or Ano del Cuero]):
    Five years after the Amistad revolt, the abolitionist British consul in Cuba was convicted of conspiracy during this event. This period of repression followed Fermina and Carlota's Conspiracy of La Escalera.

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After a frame story in which a movie theater patron is berated for loudly eating chips, a film opens with a scene in which an old man observes, caresses, and finally consumes this food. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ramen [accept specific types of ramen like shoyu ramen; prompt on noodles or soup or broth]):
    Name this food that is the obsession of a former OB/GYN in that film. A genre humorously named for this food was begun by a 1985 comedy in which a truck driver aids a young widow in her mastery of its preparation.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergio Leone):
    "Ramen Westerns" like Tampopo are named in homage to this Italian director's Spaghetti Westerns, which include Once Upon a Time in the West and The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly.
  Part 3 (ans: acid [or LSD; or lysergic acid diethylamide; accept acid Western]):
    Alejandro Jodorowsky's El Topo and Jim Jarmusch's Dead Man exemplify a spinoff of the Spaghetti Western named for this substance. This substance is central to a scene set in a cemetery in the French Quarter in Easy Rider.

[B3] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Prior to the American Revolution, Richard Oswald rebuilt an abandoned trading fort on Bunce Island in what would become this country, leading thousands of residents to be shipped to the American Southeast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sierra Leone [or Republic of Sierra Leone]):
    Name this country where Thomas Peters, a Black Loyalist, moved with three dozen Amistad mutineers after leaving Nova Scotia.
  Part 2 (ans: Charleston):
    Hundreds of Sierra Leoneans were forced to move to this city, which fell to the British when Benjamin Lincoln surrendered it to Henry Clinton. This city's Fort Sumter was attacked at the start of the Civil War.
  Part 3 (ans: Guy Carleton, 1st Baron Dorchester):
    Harry Washington, who led efforts to move back to Sierra Leone, was listed in the Book of Negroes compiled at this British officer's request. This victor at the Battle of Valcour Island was Governor of Quebec and had the title Lord Dorchester.

[B4] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A bad time working for a director with this first name on the film Navajo Joe led Burt Reynolds to dub that director "the wrong" one with this first name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sergio [or Sergio Sollima; or Sergio Corbucci; or Sergio Leone]):
    Ennio Morricone composed the scores for The Big Gundown, Django, and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, which were all Spaghetti westerns directed by Italians who share what first name?
  Part 2 (ans: silence [or silenzio; accept The Great Silence or Il grande silenzio]):
    A bleak 1968 "snow western" by Sergio Corbucci follows an outlaw named for this concept. In a Martin Scorsese film titled for this concept, a Portuguese priest sees an apparition of El Greco's portrait of Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: Cannibal Holocaust):
    Corbucci's assistant on Django, Ruggero Deodato, was arrested on obscenity charges for directing this film associated with the mondo genre. Real animals were slaughtered for this gory 1980 film about the search for a documentary crew in the Amazon.

[B5] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel set in this country is about Elias Cole, Adrian Lockheart, and Kai Mansaray, who process the trauma of a civil war. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sierra Leone [Republic of Sierra Leone]):
    Name this setting of The Memory of Love by Aminatta Forna. An author from this country depicted himself as a young boy who befriends "Little Rambo" Alhaji.
  Part 2 (ans: memoirs [or autobiography]):
    Ishmael Beah wrote about the Sierra Leone civil war in A Long Way Gone, which is in this genre of narrative nonfiction based on the author's personal experiences.
  Part 3 (ans: the Devil [or The Devil That Danced on the Water; or Shake Hands with the Devil]):
    The Sierra Leone civil war inspired a Forna novel titled for this character That Danced on the Water. A book by Romeo Dallaire that chronicles the Rwandan genocide is titled Shake Hands with this figure.

[B6] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, two characters' epileptic attacks are juxtaposed with the image of a procession of "horrors of the human flesh," on pilgrimage to see the Madonna of Casalbordino. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriele D'Annunzio):
    Name this Italian author who wrote of the lovers George and Hippolyte in The Triumph of Death, the last entry in their cycle Romances of the Rose. Eleonora Duse starred in the premiere of this author's play La Gioconda.
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Nietzsche [or Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche] (The archetype is the Ubermensch.)):
    D'Annunzio modeled George on an archetype first presented by this author. D'Annunzio's misreadings of this author are similar to those presented in The Will to Power, which was attributed to this author.
  Part 3 (ans: barbarians [or barbaro or barbara; accept word forms like barbaric; accept Barbara Leone; accept Barbarian Odes or Odi barbare] (It can be asserted that d'Annunzio developed Nietzsche's theories of the Ubermensch into something like a cult of the barbarian-Alberto Asor Rosa calls his ideology "barbaric populism.")):
    On the other hand, D'Annunzio modeled Ippolita on his lover Elvira Fratenelli, whom he nicknamed with this word. The Triumph of Death was influenced by a set of Giosue Carducci "Odes" titled for this word, which includes "By The Sources of Clitumnus."

[B7] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: Stars like Didier Awadi, Mory Kante, and Salif Keita sang a song asking Africa to "stop" this disease, whose 1976 outbreaks in South Sudan and the DRC inspired a satire by Amir Taj al-Sirr. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ebola [or Ebola hemorrhagic fever, EHF, Ebola virus disease, or EVD; accept "Africa Stop Ebola"; accept Ebola '76]):
    Name this hemorrhagic fever whose ECOWAS ("echo-woss") response was led by Togo's Faure Gnassingbe ("for nah-sing-BAY"), even though it never hit Togo during its major 2014 West African epidemic.
  Part 2 (ans: Sierra Leone [or Republic of Sierra Leone; or Salone; accept Sierra Leone Civil War or Sierra Leonean Civil War] (Bai Bureh led an 1898 rebellion against a British hut tax.)):
    Sara de Great pioneered the "Ebola comedy" genre in this country, whose renowned surf club is named for the Temne leader Bai Bureh. A Krio phrase titles Fambul Tok, a documentary about this country's 1991-2002 civil war.
  Part 3 (ans: Kru people [or variants like Kuru or Krou; accept krewes or Mistick Krewe of Comus; accept New Kru Town]):
    Sailors of this ethnicity from Sierra Leone and Liberia, who created palm-wine music, name a "New Town" in Monrovia. This people's name is a [emphasize] homophone of groups like the Mistick that create New Orelans Mardi Gras floats.

[B8] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Leadin: The Bilali document, an early text on Islam produced in the United States, was written on Sapelo Island in this archipelago. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sea Islands):
    Name this group of around 100 islands in the Atlantic Ocean, the largest of which, Johns Island, is located in South Carolina. These islands are home to many people of the Gullah culture.
  Part 2 (ans: blue [accept haint blue]):
    Gullah people are known for using the "haint" shade of this color on porch ceilings. This color appears in the field of most state flags, including South Carolina's, where it is accompanied by a white crescent and palmetto.
  Part 3 (ans: Sierra Leone [or Republic of Sierra Leone; or Salone]):
    Many loanwords in Gullah come from this country's languages. In his study of Gullah, Lorenzo Dow Turner found that some Gullah speakers could count in this country's Mende language.

[B9] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A short story by this author begins, "Having awoken, she saw-O God!-she saw a ghost that approached her bed!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleone Buonaparte; or Napoleon I ("the-first")]):
    Name this author of the Romantic novel Clisson et Eugenie. This writer supposedly declared "ah, what a novel my life has been" while writing a series of bestselling memoirs.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois-Rene de Chateaubriand {The novel is Rene}):
    In reference to the Emperor's writing, this author quipped "destiny was mute, and Napoleon should have been." This aristocrat wrote the Memoirs from Beyond the Grave and a novel in which Amelie falls in love with her brother, an outcast who leaves France to live among Native Americans in the New World.
  Part 3 (ans: Stendhal ("stan-DAHL") [or Marie-Henri Beyle] {Julian Sorel appears in The Red and the Black.}):
    Fabrice del Dongo joins Napoleon's Hundred Days campaign in The Charterhouse of Parma, a novel by this author whose admiration for Napoleon is also evident in the views expressed by this author's character Julian Sorel.

[B10] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Admiral Hood's fleet retreated from this city after the fall of forts guarding it nicknamed Little Gibraltar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Toulon):
    Name this port. As part of the Franco-Ottoman alliance, Hayreddin Barbarossa's fleet overwintered in this French city.
  Part 2 (ans: Corsica [or Corse]):
    Hood's fleet fled to this island after leaving Toulon, where it propped up a short-lived client state on this island led by Pasquale Paoli.
  Part 3 (ans: Napoleon I Bonaparte [or Napoleone Buonaparte; accept any underlined portion]):
    This Corsican commanded the Republican artillery during the Siege of Toulon, on his path to crowning himself Emperor of the French in 1804.

[B11] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: At the 1784 Christmas Conference, this denomination officially took up an anti-slavery stance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Methodism [or Wesleyan Church; or Methodist Episcopal Church; or African Methodist Episcopal Church; prompt on AME Church]):
    Name this denomination whose "African Episcopal" offshoot, established by Richard Allen and Absalom Jones, is the oldest Protestant denomination founded by African-Americans.
  Part 2 (ans: Philadelphia [or Philly]):
    Allen and Jones established the African Methodist Episcopal church in this city. The Declaration of Independence was drafted in this city's Independence Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Sierra Leone [or Salone; or Republic of Sierra Leone]):
    Another founder of the AME, Daniel Coker, established a congregation in this country in the 1820s. Many Black Loyalists who fled to Nova Scotia later resettled in this country.

[B12] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This weapon consisted of 25 long gun barrels that could fire simultaneously. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: infernal machine [or machine infernale]):
    What two-word name was given to the weapon used by Giuseppe Fieschi ("F'YESS-kee") in a botched assassination attempt on Louis-Philippe?
  Part 2 (ans: Napoleon Bonaparte [or Napoleon I; or Napoleone Buonaparte; prompt on Bonaparte or Buonaparte]):
    A different "infernal machine" was used in an attempted assassination of this ruler on the Rue Saint-Nicaise ("san nee-KEZ"). This ruler spent his final days on St. Helena after losing the Battle of Waterloo.
  Part 3 (ans: Vienna [or Wien; accept Congress of Vienna or Wiener Kongress or Congres de Vienne]):
    A pastor's son named Friedrich Staps attempted to assassinate Napoleon while he was in this city in 1809. An 1814-15 event in this city established the "Concert of Europe."

[B13] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: During the early 2000s, a panic about swallowing cockroach eggs erupted due to PETA ("pee-tah") reports about performing this action that were conflated with a 1998 incident of a woman eating a nasty Taco Bell meal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: licking an envelope [accept licking a stamp]):
    Name this action that apocryphally killed Sigmund Fechheimer from blood poisoning. A Rowland Hill invention for the Penny Black popularized this action, which ingests about 0.17 calories.
  Part 2 (ans: Queen Victoria [or Alexandrina Victoria; prompt on Vicky]):
    The Penny Black stamp depicts this woman, who was gifted the Koh-i-noor diamond as a brooch while empress of India. This woman's collection of Turkish-cut diamond brooches was a gift from her husband, Albert.
  Part 3 (ans: Sierra Leone [or Republic of Sierra Leone or Salone]):
    This country was the first to develop self-adhesive stamps. Members of this country's Mende ("MEN-day") and Temne people panned for diamonds in its Kono District to support Foday Sankoh's RUF in a civil war.

[B14] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Leadin: This author invited Paula Deen to help cook an accurate antebellum dinner after the scandal over her racist plans for a "Southern plantation wedding." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Michael W. Twitty):
    Name this culinary historian who traced the impact of the African diaspora on Southern foodways in The Cooking Gene.
  Part 2 (ans: Sierra Leone [or Republic of Sierra Leone; accept Salone]):
    Michael Twitty located a precursor of his grandmother's red rice recipe in the cuisine of this country's Mende people. '90s-era conflict in this country inspired Aminatta Forna's The Devil That Danced on the Water and Ishmael Beah's A Long Way Gone.
  Part 3 (ans: spinach [accept Spinach oleracea; accept baby spinach]):
    Sierra Leone's cuisine includes a variant of palaver ("puh-LAV-er") sauce, which often dresses this vegetable used in quiche Florentine. In 2019, Salmonella contamination prompted Dole to recall the "baby" form of this iron-rich green.

[B15] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: British troops in this country managed to gain the allegiance of the West Side Boys, an armed militia who dressed as American gang members in the style of Tupac. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sierra Leone):
    Name this country where the Revolutionary United Front, led by Foday Sankoh, fought the government in a civil war from 1991 to 2002. The Abidjan Peace Accords created a brief ceasefire in this country's civil war that only ended due to British intervention.
  Part 2 (ans: Ahmad Tejan Kabbah):
    This president of Sierra Leone negotiated the failed Abidjan Accords and the Lome Peace Agreement with Sankoh. After being overthrown in 1997, British troops helped restore him to power in 2000, and he was later re-elected as president in 2002.
  Part 3 (ans: Tony Blair):
    British intervention in the Sierra Leone Civil War under Operation Palliser was justified with an interventionist doctrine named for this Prime Minister of the UK, who was succeeded by Gordon Brown in 2007.

[B16] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The former Protestant Jacques Maritain ("mah-ree-TAN") was a leading writer in this tradition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: neo-Thomism [or neo-scholasticism; or neo-scholastic Thomism; prompt on Thomism or scholasticism]):
    Name this modern philosophical movement that former Vatican advisor John Haldane combined with analytic philosophy. It draws on the ideas of an earlier thinker who formulated the mass sequence Lauda Sion.
  Part 2 (ans: Leo XIII [or Leone XIII; or Vincenzo Gioacchino Raffaele Luigi Pecci; prompt on Leo or Leone]):
    This pope issued Aeterni Patris to promote neo-Thomism as the "restoration of Christian philosophy". He addressed the plight of workers in Rerum Novarum.
  Part 3 (ans: John Paul II [or Karol Wojtyla; or Ioannes Paulus II; or Giovanni Paolo II; or Jan Pawel II; prompt on any of the aforementioned names that do not include "the second"; do not accept or prompt on answers with just "John" or "Paul"]):
    This pope was the best-known advocate of Lublin Thomism, which he learned at the Catholic University of Lublin in his native Poland. He denounced abortion and capital punishment in Evangelium Vitae.

[B17] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Tupac Shakur proved an inspiration for the West Side Boys who captured British soldiers and UN peacekeepers active in this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sierra Leone):
    Name this West African country whose civil war Britain intervened in in 2000.
  Part 2 (ans: Ahmad Kabbah):
    British Intervention in the Civil War was encouraged by this only Muslim President of Sierra Leone after the collapse of a peace accord with the RUF which was led by Foday Sankoh.
  Part 3 (ans: Togo (accept German Togoland)):
    That truce was signed in the capital of this West African country, formerly a German Protectorate. This country was ruled for 38 years by Gnassingbe Eyadema [na-sis-ING-be ay-a-day-ma] who was the miraculous survivor of a 1974 plane crash.

[B18] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Film composer Ennio Morricone (mo-ree-KOH-nay) rose to prominence for his soundtracks for films in this genre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spaghetti Western [or western all'italiana]):
    Name this film subgenre that, although set in the deserts of the American West, were produced by filmmakers in Italy.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergio Leone (lee-OH-nay)):
    This seminal Spaghetti Western director is best known for his legendary films starring Clint Eastwood, including A Fistful of Dollars and The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly.
  Part 3 (ans: Once Upon a Time in the West [or C'era una volta il West]):
    This Leone film jarringly cast Henry Fonda as its villain, Frank. Charles Bronson plays its nameless harmonica-playing protagonist, bent on revenge for the death of his brother.

[B19] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer these questions about short-reigning world leaders, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carlos I):
    Luis Felipe became Portugal's king for about 30 minutes while bleeding out in a carriage, where he had been shot along with this king, his father. This man was the first Portuguese monarch killed in office since Sebastian.
  Part 2 (ans: Sierra Leone):
    Siaka Stevens had just been sworn in as Prime Minister of this country a few minutes before when rebels burst into his office and deposed him, though he later led it for 15 years. Its capital is Freetown.
  Part 3 (ans: Fulgencio Batista):
    Carlos Manuel Piedra very briefly held power in 1959 after the fall of this man, who operated the BRAC secret police and was nicknamed "El Indio" for his Taino ancestry. Eduardo Chibas shot himself live on radio after failing to expose this man's corruption.

[B20] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Corrupt officials from this party made money by fiddling banana import quotas and deliberately misprinting postage stamps. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christian Democracy [Democrazia Cristiana -a ccept slight variations]):
    Name this Roman Catholic political party that was the largest party in every Italian government from 1945 to 1994.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Leone):
    Although they were never proven, claims that Lockheed had bribed Italian politicians to purchase its aircraft led to the 1978 resignation of this Christian Democrat President.
  Part 3 (ans: mafia):
    Sicilian Christian Democrats Salvatore Lima and Vito Ciancimino were notable for their close association with this criminal syndicate sometimes called "cosa nostra".

[B21] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A junta (HOON-tah) based in this city fetishized light-skinned women, encouraging many so-called "wonchee girls" to bleach their skin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Freetown, Sierra Leone):
    Name this capital city looted in 1999's "Operation No Living Thing." It was the site of a coup led by 25-year-old military officer Valentine Strasser, who ruled as the head of the National Provisional Ruling Council junta.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Taylor [or Charles McArthur Ghankay Taylor]):
    Freetown was sacked during the Sierra Leone Civil War by the RUF, a militia that was supported by this president of neighboring Liberia. In 2012, he was sentenced to 50 years in prison for crimes against humanity.
  Part 3 (ans: diamonds [accept blood diamonds or conflict diamonds or hot diamonds or war diamonds or red diamonds; prompt on "carbon"]):
    The RUF financed its crimes by mining and illegally trafficking this mineral. This mineral was extracted from the "Big Hole" mine in Kimberley, South Africa, by the De Beers brothers.

[B22] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about African diamonds, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Angola [or Republic of Angola; or Republica de Angola]):
    The African Diamond Producers Association was founded by Jose Eduardo dos Santos, the leader of this former Portuguese colony. Dos Santos led the MPLA against Jonas Savimbi's UNITA during its 26-year civil war.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Bedel Bokassa):
    This leader of his self-proclaimed Central African Empire ordered the manufacture of a diamond-encrusted crown for his coronation. He also caused the downfall of the French president by gifting him diamonds.
  Part 3 (ans: Revolutionary United Front [in Sierra Leone]):
    Foday Sankoh founded this rebel group, which controversially used child soldiers and funded their operations through blood diamonds. A neighboring country's president, Charles Taylor, funded this group.

[B23] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A bird symbolizing the soul of Jesus flies upwards in a painting by this artist depicting Christ sitting on a destroyed throne with fake Hebrew writing on it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vittore Carpaccio [the most delicious painter of all]):
    Name this Venetian artist of Meditation on the Passion who is probably best known for a series of nine paintings that includes Arrival of the Ambassadors and Meeting with the Pilgrims of the Pope in Cologne.
  Part 2 (ans: the Golden Legend [or Legenda aurea; or Legenda sanctorum]):
    That series, The Legend of St. Ursula, was inspired by an entry in this compilation of hagiographies by Jacobus de Voragine, which was a common source of inspiration for many Renaissance artists.
  Part 3 (ans: a lion [or leone]):
    Carpaccio painted a winged one of these animals representing St. Mark for the Doge's palace. One of these carnivores investigates the title figure in Henri Rousseau's painting Sleeping Gypsy.

[B24] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: In the 1790s, this man established a racially-integrated school on his own property in Westport, Massachusetts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Cuffee):
    Name this Quaker freedman, probably the wealthiest African-American of the late 18th century, who owned a fleet of ships. When one of his ships, the Traveller, was impounded during the War of 1812, he was granted a private audience at the White House with James Madison.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Gallatin):
    Cuffee was befriended by this treasury secretary who served from 1801 to 1814 under Jefferson and Madison. He also studied Native Americans and founded the American Ethnological Society.
  Part 3 (ans: Sierra Leone [or Freetown]):
    Cuffee also founded the Friendly Society of this place, where he tried to grow a colony by proposing the building of a rice factory and salt works. Earlier, Granville Sharp had set up a colony here on the banks of Fourah Bay.

[B25] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In 2010, the Saville Inquiry released their report of this incident, which partly involved Father Edward Daly waving a white flag in order to help one of the wounded. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bloody Sunday [or the Bogside Massacre; or Domhnach na Fola]):
    Name this 1972 massacre in which British paratroopers killed several protesters in Derry, Northern Ireland.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Charles Lynton "Tony" Blair):
    The Saville Inquiry was ordered by this Labour Prime Minister, who was succeeded by Gordon Brown. He was criticized for following the United States into the Iraq War.
  Part 3 (ans: Republic of Sierra Leone):
    In Operation Palliser, Tony Blair sent special forces to this country to stop a civil war. That conflict saw the Revolutionary United Front, backed by Liberian dictator Charles Taylor, attempt to overthrow the government.
