=== STOCK CLUES: Dostoevsky ===
Tossup questions: 15 found, 72 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Answer: Fyodor Dostoevsky [accept Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics; accept Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre] (The unnamed critic in the first clue is Mikhail Bakhtin.)
  - A critic's theory of the "surplus of humanness" was inspired by this author's description of a portion of behavior that the social sciences cannot explain as "the man in man." This is the first author in the title of a Walter Kaufmann anthology that studies the question, "what is transcendence?" The Myth of Sisyphus' third chapter argues that this author was an absurd creator.
  - This author was imprisoned for his membership in a Fourierist discussion group and later critiqued another author's description of the utopian (*) Crystal Palace. [PWR]
  - Simone de Beauvoir's Ethics of Ambiguity aimed to disprove this author's statement, "if God is dead, everything is permitted." A nihilist character created by this author argues that the church follows the Devil's principles in Christ's name.
  - For 10 points, name this proto-existentialist author who included the "Parable of the Grand Inquisitor" in The Brothers Karamazov. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Answer: tragedy [or tragodie; accept The Philosophy of Tragedy: Dostoevsky and Nietzsche; accept Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks or Philosophie im tragischen Zeitalter der Griechen; accept The Birth of Tragedy Out of the Spirit of Music or Die Geburt der Tragodie aus dem Geiste der Musik; prompt on drama or theatre until "drama"]
  - This concept titles an early Lev Shestov book about the philosophy of two authors he called "brothers, even twins" written two years before The Apotheosis of Groundlessness. [PWR]
  - As an adjective, one of those authors used this concept to title an unfinished survey of pre-Platonic philosophy in which it describes the "Age of the Greeks." This concept titles a book in which Midas is told that the best thing for man is to never be born by Silenus. [PWR]
  - That book claims that this (*) art form's downfall was caused by its infusion with Socratic rationalism.
  - Views of reality as differentiated and undifferentiated by forms are the two "artistic impulses" of this art form, according to an 1872 book that promoted Wagner's operas.
  - For 10 points, Nietzsche contrasted the Apollonian and Dionysian elements of what form of drama? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]
  - Joyce Carol Oates's essay about this author's "lifelong obsessions" praises a story in which a husband describes driving his 16-year-old wife to commit suicide, titled "A Gentle Creature." Ursula K.
  - Le Guin quipped that "forgetting" this author inspired the fictional Omelas, since a novel by this author also imagines a society whose happiness depends on the "blood of a little victim" in the chapter "Rebellion." The unnamed narrator of a novella by this author laments not being able to become an insect and behaves poorly at Zverkov's party.
  - In the section "Apropos of the Wet Snow," that character created by this author ridicules the prostitute Liza.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian author who described a "sick" and "spiteful" man in Notes from Underground. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: patricide [or parricide; or killing a father or killing a parent or equivalents; accept killing Fyodor Pavlovich Karamazov or killing Mikhail Dostoevsky or equivalents of each; accept "Dostoevsky and Parricide"; prompt on murder, homicide, killing, or equivalents; prompt on killing a Karamazov; reject "matricide" or "killing a mother"]
  - In a speech on this crime, a man who calls psychology a "knife that cuts both ways" compares prejudice against this crime to merchants' wives' fear of the word "brimstone." Joseph Frank refuted a 1928 essay partly titled for this crime, which speculates that an author first experienced an "affective" disorder as a child.
  - The Adam's apple and hooked nose of his "tormentor" prompt a man to consider this crime as he stares through a garden window clutching a brass pestle.
  - Evidence for this crime, including a letter scrawled on a tavern bill and the theft of 3,000 rubles from an envelope addressed to the "infernal woman" Grushenka, are used to convict the innocent half-brother of its actual perpetrator, Smerdyakov.
  - Freud blamed a desire to commit this crime for Dostoevsky's epilepsy.
  - For 10 points, what crime is Dimitri tried for in The Brothers Karamazov? [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fyodor Dostoevsky [Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]
  - This author, the paradigmatic sufferer of Geschwind syndrome, nicknames the prerequisite condition for it commonly called TLE.
  - Ironic process theory is often named for a problem drawn from this author's travel notes that notes the difficulty of trying not to think of a white bear.
  - This author may have experienced symptoms of Stendhal syndrome when viewing Holbein's Dead Christ, like one of this author's protagonists.
  - During an anti-Catholic tirade, another protagonist created by this author gesticulates wildly and destroys a Chinese vase, then falls into Aglaya's arms.
  - One of this author's narrators describes the pleasure of a toothache after opening, "I am a sick man...
  - I am a spiteful man." For 10 points, name this author whose own epilepsy and psychology inspired the protagonists of his books Notes from the Underground and The Idiot. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Tatiana Larina (the first two clues are from Dostoevsky's "Pushkin Speech")
  - In an 1880 speech, an author who did not create this character claimed that this character could never accept happiness founded on another creature's suffering. [PWR]
  - In that speech, this character is praised as standing "solidly on her own native soil" and is called the apotheosis of her nation's womanhood. [PWR]
  - The narrator becomes frightened and re-writes this character as going to bed instead of staying up all night to read her fortune in hot wax. [PWR]
  - This character realizes that a man is "a lexicon of words in (+) vogue.../ mere parody and just a rogue" while reading the marginal notes in his library.
  - This character writes a love letter to a Byronic aristocrat who gives her a condescending "sermon" on how marriage would bore him. [PWR]
  - This character reappears at a ball married to an old general, where she rejects the man who killed (*) Lensky in a duel. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this heroine of Eugene Onegin. [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: being dead [or mertvykh; accept being a ghost or spirit or phantom or equivalents; accept Dead Souls or Myertvye dushi] (The first story is Dostoevsky's "Bobok.")
  - In a short story, Baron Kilnevich tells other characters with this trait to cast aside all shame and exposes Tarasevich for embezzling 400,000 rubles earmarked for widows and orphans.
  - In that story, characters with this trait discuss the philosopher Platon Nikolaevich and one of them repeatedly says the nonsense word "Bobok." Vladimir Nabokov argued that a novel partly titled for this trait exemplifies "poshlust" through its descriptions of a character who visits Manilov and Nozdryov.
  - A charismatic conman goes to landowners to buy papers representing serfs with this title trait in a novel centered on a "get rich quick" scheme invented by Chichikov.
  - For 10 points, name this trait that describes the title "Souls" of a novel by Nikolai Gogol. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pushkin (The speech is Dostoevsky's Pushkin Speech.)
  - A speech about this author praises his ability to "contain the genius of foreign lands" and claims that he "bore away with him a great secret into the grave." An elegy to this man claims that he received "a crown of thorns entwined in laurel" and "fell, by rumor slandered." That elegy to this poet ends "black blood won't wash away / The poet's sacred blood!" The hard-to-translate line "I remember that magic moment" begins a love poem that this author wrote to Anna Kern.
  - A character created by this author says "learn to possess more self-control" in a condescending "sermon" given after receiving a love letter.
  - A character created by this subject of Lermontov's "Death of the Poet" rejects a love letter from Tatiana and kills Lensky in a duel.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian poet of Eugene Onegin. [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Answer: existentialism [or existential philosophy; accept Existentialism from Dostoevsky to Sartre or "Existentialism is a Humanism"] (Barrett's book is Irrational Man.)
  - An analysis of the "place of the furies" concludes a "study" of this philosophical movement by William Barrett. [PWR]
  - An essay on this movement contrasts a central thesis with the example of a paper-knife, for which a sum of "formulae and qualities" makes "definition possible". [PWR]
  - A history of it by Walter Kaufmann  examines its core question of "What is Transcendence?" The Communist reproach that this movement is an "an invitation to...dwell in (*) quietism" is addressed in a lecture that names its major Christian proponents as Karl Jaspers  and Gabriel Marcel.
  - That lecture defends this movement's emphasis on "pure subjectivity," declares it to be "a Humanism," and claims its central subject "precedes essence".
  - The book Being and Nothingness advances, for 10 points, what philosophy of Jean-Paul Sartre ? [GIVE]

[T10] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky [accept either underlined portion; accept Fedya or Fedor or Theodore]
  - This author's troubled relationship with his young wife inspired Perumbadavam Sreedharan's hit Malayalam novel Oru Sankeerthanam Pole.
  - Another novel ends with this author deciding that betrayal "tastes like gall" while thinking, "I have lost my place in my soul" after writing a page headed: "THE CHILD." Geschwind syndrome is sometimes named for this hypergraphic author, whom Nabokov disliked so much that he parodied him in Despair as Hermann Karlovich, who is obsessed with a supposed (*) Doppelganger. [PWR]
  - Leonid Tsypkin's Summer in Baden-Baden recounts this author's wife Anna copying out a novel fictionalizing his roulette addiction.
  - This author's stepson Pavel dies at the start of a novel about his relationship with Sergey Nechayev, who inspired him to write an allegory about a circle of nihilists led by Stavrogin.
  - For 10 points, name this protagonist of J M Coetzee's The Master of Petersburg and real-life author of Demons. [GIVE]

[T11] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]
  - In a book about this author titled for a "resurrection," Rene Girard  points out the irony of the repeated use of the phrase "I am alone and they are everyone" by one of this author's narrators.
  - A book about this author introduces the notion of the "unfinalizability" of the self and relates it to the "polyphony"  of voices in this author's works.
  - That book on the problems of this author's poetics is by Mikhail Bakhtin .
  - One of this author's characters ridicules Chernyshevsky's  utopian symbol of the Crystal Palace, and deliberately bumps into an officer on the street in the section "Apropos of the Wet Snow." The inspector Porfiry quizzes the protagonist on an article suggesting that some men have a right to commit murder in a novel by this author in which Raskolnikov kills a pawnbroker.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Notes from Underground and Crime and Punishment. [GIVE]

[T12] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Siberia [accept descriptive answers indicating the prison camp or katorga that Dostoevsky or Raskolnikov were sent to; accept Omsk prison or the katorga system; prompt on prison camp; do not accept or prompt on "the gulag"]
  - An author's extensive reading of Charles Dickens during his time in this place inspired the character of the epileptic young prostitute Nellie in one of his novels.
  - A novel set in this place includes a famously-Dantesque scene in which steam turns red as it rises off the backs of men taking a Christmas bath.
  - Mikhail Bakhtin objected to the "conventionally monologic" nature of a section set in this place in which the protagonist has a dream about microbes that causes those they infect to believe that they alone know the truth.
  - An author who spent four years in this place after undergoing a mock execution based his novel The House of the Dead on that experience, and ended one novel with an epilogue in which the protagonist is followed to this place by Sonia.
  - For 10 points, Raskolnikov is exiled to a prison camp in what region at the end of Dostoevsky's Crime and Punishment? [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky
  - One short story by this author imagines overhearing conversations among the dead in a cemetery. [PWR]
  - In addition to "Bobok," this author created the pauper Makar, who writes letters to his second-cousin before she marries a rich widower.
  - Another character created by this author of (*) Poor Folk tells his brother, "It's not God that I don't accept [...] only I most respectfully return him the ticket." One of this man's novels is divided between a monologue and a diary, the latter entitled "Apropos of the Wet Snow." Alyosha and Smerdyakov are two of the four title characters of another of his novels. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, this is what author of Notes From Underground and The Brothers Karamazov? [GIVE]

[T14] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Underground Man [or Narrator of Notes from the Underground; accept logical equivalents, including "Protagonist of Notes from Underground", "Main Character from Notes from the Underground", or "The Underground Narrator"; accept "The Underground Author" or "The Underground Writer" after Dostoevsky is named, prompt before]
  - This character has fantasies of transferring Lake Como to Rome, so that he can host parties on its shores at the Villa Borghese, after forcing the Pope to retire to Brazil.
  - In the third chapter of the work in which he appears, this character equates the laws of nature with impossibilities, arguing that the ingenuous and active resign to these and are stopped by them like a charging bull by a wall; and this character also declares that the moaning of a man with a toothache is evidence of the pleasure to be found even in that.
  - This character sends a letter containing six rubles to a friend after a night of carousing that saw him challenge Ferfichkin to a duel and insult the guest of honor, Zverkov, but the novel he appears in ends only after this character drives the former prostitute Liza from his apartment by paying her for the sex they had.
  - For 10 points, declaring at the beginning "I am a sick man... [GIVE]
  - I am a wicked man", this is what character, the unnamed narrator of some "Notes", created by Fyodor Dostoevsky?

[T15] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky
  - One of this author's characters repeatedly compares an atheist friend to the murder victim von Sohn, and ponders whether "iron hooks" or a ceiling must exist in hell.
  - This author told of a pair of riding breeches stolen from Astafy by the drunken boarder Yemelyan in his short story "An Honest Thief." He created a character who describes a baby ripped apart by hunting dogs in a chapter titled "Rebellion," some time after declaring "if there is no immortality, then everything is (*) permitted." This author's last novel includes a father-son conflict over the dissolute Grushenka and several scenes set in the hermitage of Elder Zosima. [PWR]
  - This author envisioned a sixteenth-century jail cell containing the returned Jesus in the poema of the Grand Inquisitor, as told to Alyosha by Ivan before their dad is murdered.
  - For 10 points, name this Christian author of The Brothers Karamazov. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This word modifies "life" in the title of a Karolina Pavlova novel in which a young woman with artistic aspirations, Cecily von Lindenborn, is cornered into a marriage of convenience. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: double [accept The Double or Dvoynik; accept A Double Life or Dvoynaya zhizn'] (The Double is by Fyodor Dostoevsky.)):
    What word also titles a novella about the titular counselor Golyadkin, who is thrown out of Klara's birthday party and ultimately carted off to an asylum?
  Part 2 (ans: verse [accept novel-in-verse, poetry, or meter; accept specific meters such as iambic tetrameter]):
    Each chapter of A Double Life follows a single day and ends with Cecily dreaming in this literary style. Alexander Pushkin's Eugene Onegin is a novel in this style.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrei Bely [or Boris Nikolaevich Bugaev] (The novel is Petersburg. Pavlova became a favorite author of the Russian Symbolists.)):
    This author helped repopularize Pavlova by declaring her one of the masters of Russian verse. Translators struggle with a dense novel by this author whose protagonist wears a red domino costume from a masked ball.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story titled for one of these objects, a poor boy is amused by three dolls playing violins in a window, but is chased away by a bully and runs to hide behind a pile of wood where he freezes to death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christmas trees [or Rozhdestvenskaya yolka; accept "A Christmas Tree and a Wedding" or "Yolka i svad'ba"; accept "The Beggar Boy at Christ's Christmas Tree" or "The Heavenly Christmas Tree" or "Mal'chik u Khrista na yolka; prompt on trees]):
    Name these objects. Another story titled for one of these objects ends with the narrator thinking "then his calculations were correct" after witnessing a wealthy man marrying a 16-year-old girl.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]):
    This author's relationship with Christianity is reflected in his story "The Beggar Boy at Christ's Christmas Tree." This Russian author also wrote "White Nights" and "The Dream of a Ridiculous Man."
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bulgakov):
    Once banned, Christmas trees were reintroduced to Russia in the 1930s, possibly because of Stalin's love for this author's play The Days of the Turbins, which includes a scene of a Christmas tree being decorated.

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author who wrote in this language described the concept of "defamiliarization" in his essay "Art as Device." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russian [or Russkiy] (The literary theorists are Viktor Shklovsky and Mikhail Bakhtin writing on Dostoevsky's novella Notes from Underground.)):
    Name this language used by a literary theorist who defined 31 narratemes. A literary theorist described the "dialogized self-consciousness" of a novella in this language that begins, "I am a sick man... I am a spiteful man."
  Part 2 (ans: Vladimir Propp):
    This Soviet literary theorist defined figures like the hero, the donor, and the dispatcher among seven "spheres of action" in a "Morphology" of a certain literary form that was collected by Alexander Afanasyev.
  Part 3 (ans: fairy tales [or folk tales; or folklore; or skazka; accept Morphology of the Folktale]):
    Propp's "spheres of action" were developed through his studies of works in this literary form, which Alexander Afanasyev collected after being inspired by The Brothers Grimm.

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of the story "Cogwheels" is lent a misbound copy of a novel by this author by an old man with a "Pan-like expression." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky] (Those parables appear in The Brothers Karamazov.)):
    What author's "Parable of the Onion" inspired Ryunosuke Akutagawa's "The Spider's Thread"? His last novel also includes the parable of "The Grand Inquisitor."
  Part 2 (ans: No Longer Human [or A Shameful Life; or Ningen Shikkaku] (by Osamu Dazai)):
    This novel's narrator ponders Crime and Punishment during a "game of antonyms." In this I-novel, Yozo's "clowning" and morphine addiction fail to prevent his spiraling depression.
  Part 3 (ans: Yi Sang [or Haegyeong Kim; prompt on Kim]):
    This author wrote, "close down the 19th century" as the "spirit of Dostoevsky" is "easily wasted" in a story about a recluse who survives on his wife's prostitution, titled "The Wings." This pioneer of Korean modernism also wrote the poem sequence Crow's Eye View.

[B5] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One novel by this author begins with the father of Sasha Dvanov ("dih-VAH-nov") drowning himself in a lake to see the afterlife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrei Platonovich Platonov [or Andrei Platonovich Klimentov] (the second novel is The Foundation Pit)):
    Name this Soviet author of Chevengur. Workers like Zhachev and Voschev dig the title location under a large house in another novel by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote [accept "Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote"]):
    The British edition of Chevengur pitched it as the "Soviet" version of this book. A short story attributes authorship of this work to the fictional Pierre Menard.
  Part 3 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevskiy]):
    A villager in Chevengur names himself after this Russian author of a novel about Prince Myshkin, The Idiot.

[B6] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's main character overhears a conversation at a bar wherein a student denounces an old woman as a parasite who offers nothing to humanity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i nakazaniye] [by Fyodor Dostoevsky]):
    Name this novel whose early chapters foreshadow Raskolnikov using an axe to murder a pawnbroker and her sister.
  Part 2 (ans: beating a mare to death [or equivalents such as whipping a horse]):
    Raskolnikov's crime is also foreshadowed by a flashback dream in which Raskolnikov witnesses a group led by Mikolka perform this violent action on an innocent animal.
  Part 3 (ans: the resurrection of Lazarus [prompt on the Bible; prompt on gospels]):
    In another example of foreshadowing, a crazed Raskolnikov commands Sonia to read him this story. Crime and Punishment's final paragraphs refer to this story while speculating on Raskonikov's "new unknown life."

[B7] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Ryunosuke Akutagawa's story "The Spider's Thread" was inspired by a parable about this food from a novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: onions):
    Name this food that Grushenka analogizes to her one "good deed." In a parable that Grushenka tells to Alyosha, a woman's guardian angel cites a kind act involving this food to argue for her entry into heaven, but her refusal to take others with her damns her to hell.
  Part 2 (ans: The Brothers Karamazov [or The Karamazov Brothers; or Brat'ya Karamazovy] (by Fyodor Dostoevsky)):
    Grushenka relates the parable of the onion to Alyosha in this novel, in which Ivan tells him the parable of the Grand Inquisitor.
  Part 3 (ans: Wedding at Cana [or Marriage at Cana; accept Cana of Galilee; accept Jesus turning water into wine or equivalents; prompt on Jesus's first miracle]):
    While listening to a passage about this event, Alyosha has a dream of Father Zosima in heaven because he "gave an onion." In a chapter titled for this event, Father Paissy ("PY-see") reads a passage about it over Zosima's coffin.

[B8] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For his involvement in the Petrashevsky Circle, this author was subjected to a mock execution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fyodor (Mikhailovich)  Dostoevsky):
    Name this author who detailed his experience of life in a Siberian prison camp in The House of the Dead.
  Part 2 (ans:  Crime and Punishment [or  Prestupleniye i Nakazaniye ]):
    Dostoevsky drew on his time in Siberia while writing this other novel, in which Raskolnikov is exiled to Siberia for his murder of a pawnbroker.
  Part 3 (ans: run over by a  carriage [or run over by a  cart ; or trampled by  horse s or clear equivalents to any of these; prompt on being  run over or  trample d or a road  accident or  crash or similar, asking "he is run over by what?"]):
    In Crime and Punishment , Raskolnikov gives money to the family of the prostitute Sonya after he witnesses her drunkard father Marmeladov being killed in this fashion.

[B9] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Virginia Woolf helped translate a sexually explicit chapter that was cut from this novel's original publication in which the protagonist makes a confession to a monk named Tikhon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Demons [or The Possessed; or The Devils; or Besy]):
    Name this novel in which a character agrees to commit suicide and take the blame for a set of crimes in his note. A fire interrupts a poorly-attended dance after a literary gala goes awry in this novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky):
    Demons is by this author of The Brothers Karamazov and Crime and Punishment.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pushkin [or Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin]):
    Demons takes one of its epigraphs from this author's poem "Demons." Mikhail Lermontov described how this "bard is killed!" in his "Death of the Poet," which is dedicated to this author.

[B10] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A monologue in which this character is told "we must live out our lives" until "we shall hear the angels" is delivered in Korean Sign Language at the end of the film Drive My Car. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Uncle Vanya [or Dyadya Vanya; or Ivan Petrovich Voynitsky; or Ivan Petrovich Voynitsky]):
    Name this character who steals a vial of morphine from a doctor while planning to commit suicide. His anguish stems from the fact that he has been tending a professor's estate for 25 years by the start of the play.
  Part 2 (ans: gun [accept more specific answers such as pistol or rifle; accept "Chekhov's Gun"]):
    In Act III, Vanya sinks into a chair after failing to use one of these objects on the professor Serebryakov. A principle attributed to Chekhov claims that one of these objects shown in Act I must be used by the end of the play.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Schopenhauer AND Fyodor Dostoevsky [accept in either order]):
    Before trying to shoot Serebryakov, Vanya exclaims in despair that, if he had lived a normal life, he could have been the next of either of these two real-life people. Name both.

[B11] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: S.S. Koteliansky and Virginia Woolf's translation of this chapter includes a footnote explaining that its author was unhappy with its climax, in which the protagonist calls a man a "cursed psychologist." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "At Tikhon's" [or Chapter Nine of Part II from The Possessed; accept descriptions of the censored chapter from The Possessed; accept Demons or Besy in place of "The Possessed"; accept answers like Nikolai confessing to Tikhon; prompt on Nikolai's confession; reject answers like "Tikhon's confession" which imply that Tikhon is doing the confessing]):
    Name or describe this chapter in which Nikolai Stavrogin gives a monk a lengthy document in which he admits to raping an 11-year-old girl who later committed suicide.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoevsky]):
    Publisher Mikhail Katkov overruled this author's efforts to include "At Tikhon's" in his novel The Possessed. This author also wrote The Brothers Karamazov.
  Part 3 (ans: Alyosha Karamazov [or Alexei Karamazov]):
    The real life Tikhon of Zadonsk inspired both Tikhon and Father Zosima, this Dostoevsky character's religious mentor. This character kisses his brother after that brother tells him "The Parable of the Grand Inquisitor."

[B12] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A critic used the concept of 'unfinalisability' to analyse this author's characters, arguing that 'the ultimate word of the world and about the world has not yet been spoken'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky):
    Name this author. Along with unfinalisability, the polyphony of voices in this author's novels are discussed in a book titled Problems of [this author's] Poetics.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Bakhtin ('buck-TEEN')):
    Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics is a work by this Russian literary theorist, who also wrote The Dialogic Imagination. This critic developed the literary concept of carnival in Rabelais and His World.
  Part 3 (ans: The Brothers Karamazov [or The Karamazov Brothers or Brat'ya Karamazovy]):
    Bakhtin used the concept of Menippean satire to analyse this novel's 'Parable of the Grand Inquisitor'. Dmitri, Ivan and Alexei are the three title relatives in this Dostoevsky novel.

[B13] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The eccentric host of this event pees in a silver chamberpot, picks his teeth with a silver toothpick, and boxes a slave's ear for trying to clean a silver dish before serving wine that ought to be undrinkable. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: feast of Trimalchio [or cena Trimalchionis; accept answers that indicate a dinner or a party hosted by Trimalchio; prompt on feast or equivalents by asking, "Who is the host?"]):
    Name this event. Niceros tells this event's host a story about a werewolf who urinated a circle around his clothes, turning them to stone, after guests at this event eat 12 dishes inspired by the signs of the zodiac.
  Part 2 (ans: Latin):
    Encolpius and his servant Giton are invited to Trimalchio's lavish feast in the Satyricon, a work of Menippean satire written in this language. Horace wrote a collection of satirical poems in this language.
  Part 3 (ans: Mikhail Bakhtin [or Mikhail Mikhailovich Bakhtin] (The book is The Problems of Dostoevsky's Poetics.)):
    This literary theorist enumerated the qualities of Menippean satire in a book that examines the "poetics" of one of his countrymen in order to outline the presence of humor and irreverence in the European literary canon.

[B14] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In an unfinished novel by this author, a young girl referred to as "the Nameless Nobody" is neglected by her violinist stepfather and falls in love with the daughter of "Prince X." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky] (The novel is Netochka Nezvanova.)):
    Name this author who failed to finish that novel because he was subjected to a mock execution and arrested after reading a critic's letter to a literary circle.
  Part 2 (ans: The House of the Dead [or Notes from theHouse of the Dead; or Memoirs from theHouse of the Dead; or Notes from a/theDead House; or Zapiski izMyortvogo doma]):
    Dostoevsky fictionalized his prison time in Siberia as the memoirs of the gentleman Aleksandr Goryanchikov in this novel, in which he defines man as "a creature that can get accustomed to anything."
  Part 3 (ans: Crime and Punishment [or Prestupleniye i nakazaniye]):
    This Dostoevsky novel ends with Sonya following Raskolnikov to Siberia after he confesses to the axe murder of an old pawnbroker.

[B15] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novella's protagonist has recurring dreams of a strange cat with the head of Boris Ismailov ("bah-REES ees-MY-loff"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District [or Ledi Makbet Mtsenskovo uyezda]):
    Name this novella whose title character is accused of having "cupids" by her husband Zinovy, whom she then strangles and buries in a cellar.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky):
    Nikolai Leskov's Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District was published in Epoch, a magazine edited by this author of The Brothers Karamazov.
  Part 3 (ans: sketches [accept A Sportsman's Sketches]):
    Leskov also wrote many short works called zapiski, a word usually translated as either "notes" or as this English term. For example, Ivan Turgenev's set of zapiski relating a hunter's travels with Yermolay are usually titled for this term in English.

[B16] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist exclaims "vive la guerre eternelle!" at the end of his speech explaining the thesis of this essay, which differentiates the "masters of the present" from the "masters of the future." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "On Crime" [accept equivalents such as the article written by Rodion Raskolnikov or Rodion Raskolnikov's article about crime; prompt on the article from Crime and Punishment by asking "by who?"]):
    Name or describe this essay published in Periodical Discourse, which Porfiry Petrovich questions the protagonist about because it suggests that "extraordinary" people have the right to "transgress the law."
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky):
    The article "On Crime" lays out the ideas that motivate Raskolnikov's murder of an elderly pawnbroker in Crime and Punishment, a novel by this Russian author.
  Part 3 (ans: the raising of Lazarus [or equivalents of Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead; prompt on the Bible, the New Testament, or the Gospel of John]):
    During their discussion of "On Crime," Porfiry asks Raskolnikov if he believes in this story. In Part IV, Raskolnikov forces Sonya to read him this story, which he's later reminded of by a book under his pillow before turning himself in.

[B17] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This family's domineering matriarch Varvara argues that, unlike mugs or pencils, Raphael's Sistine Madonna has no use and is admired only by "inveterate old men." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Stavrogina ("stav-ro-GHEE-nah") family [accept Varvara Petrovna Stravogina or Nikolai Vsevolodovitch Stavrogin]):
    Identify this family whose opulent estate is located in Skvoreshniki ("sk'VO-resh-NEE-kee"). A member of this family half-heartedly engages in a duel with a hot-tempered man whose father he had dragged around by the nose in a fit of insanity.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoyevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]):
    After he learns of Liza's death, Nikolai Stavrogin hangs himself at the end of this author's novel Demons. Svidrigailov ("s'vee-dree-GUY-loff") kills himself with Dunya's revolver in this author's earlier novel Crime and Punishment.
  Part 3 (ans: America [or the United States of America]):
    In Demons, Stavrogin's companions Shatov and Kirillov spend some time living in this place in order to "try out the life of the... worker." In Crime and Punishment, Svidrigailov informs a soldier dressed in an Achilles helmet that he's headed for this place before he shoots himself in the head.

[B18] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this story describes himself as a dreamer, which he defines as "not a human being, but a creature of an intermediate sort." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "White Nights" [or "Belye nochi"]):
    Name this Russian story narrated by a lonely man who wanders the streets of St. Petersburg and develops an affection for Nastenka before she reunites with her lover.
  Part 2 (ans: Notes From Underground [or Notes from the Underground; or Letters from the Underworld; or Zapiski iz podpol'ya]):
    "White Nights" is often compared to this novella, whose reclusive unnamed narrator rails against Western philosophy to the prostitute Liza and introduces himself by stating "I am a sick man.... I am a spiteful man."
  Part 3 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]):
    "White Nights" and Notes From Underground were written by this author, who is best remembered for writing about Raskolnikov's murder of a pawnbroker in Crime and Punishment.

[B19] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Critics speculate that this character would have attempted to assassinate the tsar in the planned sequel of the novel in which he appears, but the sequel was never written. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alyosha Karamazov [Or Alexei Fyodorovich Karamazov]):
    Name this youngest Karamazov brother, who is depicted as a good natured man. His strong faith in God is shaken by the Grand Inquisitor and the rotting of Zosimov's body.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky):
    Alyosha appears in The Brothers Karamazov, a novel by this author. This author is perhaps best known for a novel in which Raskolnikov murders a pawnbroker titled Crime and Punishment.
  Part 3 (ans: The Idiot):
    Dostoevsky also wrote this novel about the strained love triangle between Prince Myshkin, Nastasya, and Rogozhin. Myshkin is sent back to a sanatorium in Switzerland at the end of this novel.

[B20] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ptitsyn ("p'TEET-sin") compares this action to the Japanese custom of avenging an insult by committing hara-kiri in front of the insulter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nastasya Filippovna tossing 100,000 rubles into her fireplace in The Idiot [accept any answers that convey that she's burning money; or burning a marriage offer]):
    Name this climactic action at the end of Book I of an 1869 novel, which a woman perpetrates at her own dinner party to mock the avarice of her suitor Ganya.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky]):
    The spiteful fallen woman Nastasya Filippovna attracts the epileptic Prince Myshkin in The Idiot, a novel by this author of Crime and Punishment.
  Part 3 (ans: Parfyon Semyonovich Rogozhin):
    After successfully courting her with the hundred thousand rubles, this evil merchant becomes intensely jealous of the attention Nastasya showers on Myshkin, so he beats her and eventually stabs her through the heart.

[B21] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This character agitatedly insists on adding a French postscript in support of the French Revolution to his suicide note dictated by Pyotr Verkhovensky. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexey Nilich Kirillov [or Alexey Nilich Kirillov]):
    Name this man, inspired by Nikolai Stavrogin, who wants to kill himself as an apocalyptic act of self-determination proving his conquest of fear. He falsely accepts the blame for the murder of Shatov.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]):
    Kirillov is a character in this author's novel about a group of radicals, whose title has been translated alternately as The Devils, Demons, and The Possessed.
  Part 3 (ans: a fire):
    During one of these events in The Devils, Liza Tushin is killed by a mob and the Lebyadkins are murdered by Fedka the convict.

[B22] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Enrollees of an academy purporting to prepare them for this kind of experience have both their feet amputated, in the satirical novel Omon-Ra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: space travel [or similar answers; accept going to the Moon; accept going to Mars]):
    Identify this type of experience, which the engineer Los daydreams about undergoing in order to investigate the mysterious message "Anta Odeli Uta" in Alexei Tolstoy's novel Aelita.
  Part 2 (ans: Victor Pelevin [or Victor Olegovich Pelevin]):
    Omon-Ra is by this Russian science fiction author, who wrote about an army commander who uses the pinky of Anagama to operate a gun turret endowed with the power to reveal the true nature of things, in a novel variously titled Chapayev and Void, Buddha's Little Finger, or Clay Machine Gun.
  Part 3 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky]):
    A shadowy figure pulls the narrator up from his grave and hurtles through space with him until they reach an Earth-like planet in this author's story "The Dream of a Ridiculous Man." Another of his ridiculous characters, Raskolnikov, has a number of weird dreams, in his novel Crime and Punishment.

[B23] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: At a party at the Yepanchin estate, this character randomly launches into a tirade against Catholicism, claiming it is the Antichrist and the source of evils like atheism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Prince Myshkin [Lev Nikolayevich Myshkin; accept either his first or last name; accept The Idiot]):
    Name this character whose friend Rogozhin murders a woman he loves, Nastasya Filippovna, and who goes back to Switzerland at the end of the novel. You can give either his real name or the title of the novel he appears in.
  Part 2 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky]):
    The Idiot is a novel by this Russian author of The Brothers Karamazov and Crime and Punishment.
  Part 3 (ans: Lizaveta [or Elizabeth]):
    Early in The Idiot, a member of the Yepanchin family with this name takes Myshkin under her wing and considers marrying him to one of her three daughters. In another Dostoevsky work, the protagonist meets a woman of this name on the street after leaving Zverkov's dinner party.

[B24] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's short stories ends by asking if "a whole moment of happiness" "is...too little for the whole of a man's life". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoyevsky]):
    Name this Russian author better known for his longer fiction, including the proto-existentialist novella Notes from the Underground and his novels The Idiot and Crime and Punishment.
  Part 2 (ans: "White Nights" [or "Belye nochi"]):
    This is the aforementioned Dostoyevsky story, in which the narrator develops an unrequited love for a girl named Nastenka who wants to escape her strict grandmother, but is dismayed when her actual lover returns.
  Part 3 (ans: Demons [or Besy; or Devils; or The Possessed]):
    In this Dostoevsky novel, Stepan Verkhovensky is dismayed to find his son Pyotr turning into a nihilistic would-be revolutionary who idolizes the amoral Nikolai Stavrogin.

[B25] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this short story tells his doctor that he is frustrated because he cannot see his wife through the eye holes in his body cast. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"):
    Name this short story which features a conversation between the couples Mel and Teresa, and Laura and Nick.
  Part 2 (ans: Raymond Clevie Carver Jr.):
    "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love" is a short story by this American author, who also wrote the collection Will You Please Be Quiet, Please?
  Part 3 (ans: Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoevsky):
    Carver wrote a screenplay about this Russian novelist of Poor Folk and Notes from the Underground.
