=== STOCK CLUES: Weimar Republic ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 74 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Germany [or Deutschland; accept West Germany; accept East Germany; accept Nazi Germany; accept Weimar Republic] (The artist in the second sentence is Hannah Hoch.)
  - This modern-day country was home to the periodical Everyman His Own Football, which is often considered the first zine. [PWR]
  - A series of artifacts from an "Ethnographic Museum" was depicted by a woman from this country who pioneered photomontage in works like Cut With the Kitchen Knife.
  - A leader of this country is X-rayed to show gold coins in his stomach in a work by John (*) Heartfield. [PWR]
  - Pedestrians and a factory were removed from an image of a river in this country that, until 2022, was the most expensive photograph ever sold.
  - A former government of this country held an exhibition of abstract art that they viewed as promoting cultural disintegration opposite a "Great" art exhibition.
  - For 10 points, Andreas Gursky is from what country, where the New Objectivity movement was labeled as degenerate art? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Germany [accept Weimar Republic; accept Deutschland]
  - An artist from this country echoed Leonardo's The Last Supper for a painting showing five friends sharing a somber dinner from a rooftop terrace overlooking the title city.
  - Before emigrating to Sweden, that painter from this country depicted her friend Traute Rose  in works like In My Studio and The Tennis Player.
  - An artist from this country made a double portrait of Rasha the Black Dove and her fellow funfair performer Agosta, whose warped ribcage is called "Pigeon-Chested" in the work's title.
  - A 1925 Gustav Hartlaub-curated exhibition in this country gave its name to a movement divided into Classicists and Verists.
  - Another artist from this home country of Christian Schad produced a triptych in which a legless veteran hobbles down a street of prostitutes, while a band plays in an opulent nightclub.
  - For 10 points, name this country whose New Objectivity movement included the artist of Metropolis, Otto Dix. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; or the Weimar Republic] (the opening sentence refers to Erich Pommer)
  - A producer from this country founded the production company Decla, which was later absorbed by UFA.
  - In response to the question "how long will I live?," a character in a film from this country is told "until dawn!" In a film from this country, a young girl bounces a ball off a poster as the main character's shadow enters the frame.
  - A film from this country uses set designs with jagged lines and curved forms to depict places like an asylum where sleepwalking experiments occur.
  - A man rubs chalk on his hand, then slaps the overcoat of a murderer, played by Peter Lorre, to mark him with the title letter in a film from this country.
  - For 10 points, name this country where The Cabinet of Dr. [GIVE]
  - Caligari and M were respectively directed by Robert Wiene and Fritz Lang.

[T4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Germany [accept Weimar Republic]
  - A donkey stands on a table that has several headless people sitting around it in a painting from this country titled for a red dollar sign's "Eclipse of the Sun." In a self-portrait by an artist from this country, the artist wears a tuxedo while smoking a cigarette. [PWR]
  - A bloodied stump is contrasted with a claw-like hand in a self-portrait (*) "as a Soldier" by an artist from this country who also painted several "street scenes" of one of its cities. [PWR]
  - A woman wears pink ostrich feathers in the central panel of a triptych titled Metropolis, which was painted by an artist from this country's New Objectivity movement.
  - The Expressionist group "The Bridge" was formed in, for 10 points, what country is home to artists like Max Beckmann and Ernst Kirchner? [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Germany [or Deutschland; accept the Germans or Deutsche or German Empire or Second Reich or Deutsches Kaiserreich; accept Nazi Germany or Third Reich; accept Weimar Republic or Weimarer Republik; accept German Southwest Africa or Deutsch-Sudwestafrika; accept Afro-Germans or Afrodeutsche]
  - Audre Lorde mentored this country's Black lesbian founders of ADEFRA .
  - Esi Edugyan's Half-Blood Blues depicts this country's jazz-loving Swing Kids.
  - It's not the UK, but Black soldiers fathered "brown babies" in this country's racist "Black Horror" panic.
  - In 1868, mixed-race "Rehoboth Basters" settled this country's pro-Ovambo colony, which fought Samuel Maharero and Hendrik Witbooi.
  - In 1919, a South African mandate took over that colony of this country, where eugenicists experimented at Shark Island.
  - Senegalese French troops occupied a river region of this country, whose "South West Africa" colony was the site of the Nama and Herero genocide.
  - In this country, Jesse Owens won four gold medals at the 1936 Summer Olympics.
  - For 10 points, Namibia was colonized by what country's Second Reich? [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Germany [or Deutschland; accept German Empire or Imperial State of Germany or German Republic or German Reich; accept Kingdom of Prussia; accept Weimar Republic] (The third sentence refers to Felix Klein's Erlangen program.)
  - This country's scientific community was shaped by adaptation to a "hostile intellectual environment," according to the Forman thesis.
  - Though structural formulas were first widely used by chemists in this country, this country was excluded from being a founding member of IUPAC .
  - An 1872 mathematical lecture in this country proposed viewing geometric ideas as subgroups of projective geometry as part of a "program" named for a university in this country.
  - In the 19th century, most Americans with PhDs earned them in this country.
  - During World War I, BASF manufactured the chlorine gas used by this country from a technique developed by Fritz Haber.
  - For 10 points, name this country whose hostility to "Jewish physics" led Max Born, Albert Einstein, and others to leave it in the 1930s. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Weimar Republic [or Weimar Germany; or Weimarer Republik; prompt on 1920s Germany; prompt on interwar period or anything indicating the period between WWI and WWII in Germany]
  - An artist who escaped his country right before the start of this government painted a surgery in which several forceps strewn on a white sheet surround an exposed appendix; that non-Man Ray artist created a light-sensitive photogram. [PWR]
  - An artist part of the November Group during this government drew an oafish, mustachioed man in profile whose collar reads "184." A movement during this government was divided into classicists and verists, with the latter faction including (*) Christian Schad. [PWR]
  - A tuxedoed saxophonist eyeing a woman with large pink ostrich feathers appears in a triptych satirizing this government that depicts a peg-legged soldier and is titled Metropolis.
  - A collage depicting its last "Beer-Belly Cultural Epoch" was done by Hannah Hoch.
  - The Neue Sachlichkeit  movement during this government included Otto Dix and George Grosz .
  - For 10 points, name this government satirized by New Objectivity in the 1920s, which preceded the rise of Nazi Germany. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; be generous and accept historical incarnations such as the German Empire or Weimar Republic] (The thinkers referenced are Walter Benjamin, Werner Sombart, Theodore Mommsen, Leopold von Ranke, and Hegel.)
  - A writer from this present-day country was said to have created "the strongest narcotic" of his century by saying that history should be written "as what actually happened." The leading figure of this country's "youngest historical school" was the author of the six-volume history series Modern Capitalism.
  - Another of this country's historians wrote a three-volume History of Rome, which won him a Nobel Prize in 1903.
  - A Universal History up to the time of ancient Greece was attempted by this country's leading 19th-century historian, who wrote the essay "The Great Powers" and pioneered emphasis on primary sources.
  - Many historians were influenced by an idealist from this country who effectively stated "Africa has no history" in his Lectures on the Philosophy of History and described history as a process of dialectic.
  - For 10 points, name this home country of Georg Hegel. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Germany [or the Weimar Republic before it is mentioned]
  - One artist from this country sent soldiers parodic care packages with bourgeois items like fancy dresswear and tea samples. [PWR]
  - Another artist from this country created a portrait of his wife Marcela Arcangeli wearing an orchid, and also painted white-clad doctors and nurses surrounding an appendectomy patient. [PWR]
  - An artist from this country painted an androgynous woman holding up pink ostrich feathers in a (*) nightclub at the centre of his triptych Metropolis. [PWR]
  - Another artist from this country depicted himself in a black suit in Self-Portrait in Tuxedo, and showed three men torturing a family in his painting The Night.
  - For 10 points, name this country which was home to artists like George Grosz, Christian Schad, Otto Dix and Max Beckmann during the Weimar era. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Weimar Republic [or Weimar Germany]
  - Many participants of a coup attempt against this government formed the Organisation Consul, who threw acid in the face of Philipp Schneidemann. [PWR]
  - This government was the target of a coup led by Wolfgang Kapp, and it faced a revolution led by the group that published the newspaper The Red Flag. [PWR]
  - This government ordered the executions of Walter Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg, the leaders of the Spartacist Uprising. [PWR]
  - This government's adoption of the (*) Dawes Plan failed to save it from massive hyperinflation.
  - The last president of this government, Paul von Hindenburg, passed the Reichstag Fire Decree, which assisted in the rise of Adolf Hitler to power.
  - For 10 points, name this post-World War I government of Germany. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Germany [or Deutschland; accept the Weimar Republic; accept German Empire]
  - In one painting from this country, various figures have the tops of their heads replaced with an inverted tea cup, a charging war-horse, and a steaming pile of shit. [PWR]
  - That painting from this country, The Pillars of Society, was created by an artist who dedicated The Funeral to Oskar Panizza. [PWR]
  - Bound, semi-nude women and torturously mangled men feature in triptychs like Departure and works like (*) The Night by another painter from this country. [PWR]
  - An artist from this country did impasto works featuring straw and burned clothing, such as Margarethe, Your Golden Hair and Zim Zum.
  - This home of George Grosz and Max Beckmann gave birth to New Objectivity, as well as a group led by Emil Nolde and Ernst Kirchner, Die Brucke.
  - For 10 points, name this country that had a major center of the Dada movement at Berlin. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Germany [or the Third Reich; or the German Empire; or the Weimar Republic]
  - Police in this country banned an art show poster depicting a white nude on a pure orange background. [PWR]
  - Because an artist from this country disliked "sugary ballet and dancing on points," he frequently painted crude scenes of nude dancers, including one showing a defiance of Moses. [PWR]
  - A saxophonist leans in to play his instrument as a woman with pink ostrich feathers raises her hand in a painting from this country that shows a veteran with two wooden legs begging at the left. [PWR]
  - The painters of the (*) Dance Around the Golden Calf and the Metropolis Triptych were from this non-Swiss country, where a watercolor showing several birds connected to a hand-crank was declared "degenerate art." For 10 points, name this home country of Otto Dix and Die Brucke, where the Nazis attempted to purge modern art. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 Chicago Open History Doubles (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Weimar Republic (or Weimarer Republik)
  - This polity defeated an independence attempt in its south-east led by socialists like Eugen Levine and Kurt Eisner.
  - This government's first leader signed a namesake pact with Wilhelm Groener, in part to deal with a group led by Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht.
  - This polity's foreign minister Walter Rathenau was assassinated after signing the Treaty of Rapallo with Russia, and one failed rebellion in it was put down with the help of Gustav von Kahr.
  - This government was portrayed as villainous in the "stab-in-the-back" myth, and it was opposed by the Spartacist League.
  - This government introduced the Rentenmark to counteract hyperinflation, and its presidents were Friedrich Ebert and Paul von Hindenburg.
  - For ten points, name this ill-fated German republic which was replaced in 1933 by the Nazi Third Reich. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Polish artist Zdislaw Beksinski ("ZDEE-swaff bek-SEEN-skee") used this adjective to describe a period beginning in the 1960s when he painted the works that earned him a "nightmare artist" reputation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fantastic [accept fantastic realism]):
    Give this adjective which precedes "realism" in the name of an Austrian art group formed in the 1950s, including Ernst Fuchs, who painted Jungian themes on the walls of the Otto Wagner Villa and Apocalypse Chapel.
  Part 2 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    Fantastic realism should not be confused with the similar "magic realism" that arose under this regime. The New Objectivity movement and Bauhaus flourished during the cultural era defined by this regime.
  Part 3 (ans: H. R. Giger):
    This non-Austrian, sometimes considered a fantastic realist, collected characteristic greyscale "biomechanical" art in the book Necronomicon.

[B2] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A city in this country names a Taylorism-inspired kitchen design based on a railroad dining car. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Germany [Federal Republic of Germany; or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; or Weimar Germany or Weimar Republic; or German Reich]):
    Name this country where a "roof" war included a flat-roofed housing project named Uncle Tom's Cabin. Tel Aviv's White City was inspired by an architecture school from this country whose name means "building house."
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Gropius):
    This flat-roofer and designer of the Monument to the March Dead argued that the "roof war" was not a political fight. He designed the Fagus Shoe Factory.
  Part 3 (ans: Japan [or Nippon; or Nihon]):
    Uncle Tom's Cabin was designed by Bruno Taut, who fled Germany for this country. Frank Lloyd Wright's Imperial Hotel survived this country's Great Kanto earthquake.

[B3] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several Cezanne-esque paintings of this state, such as The Ice Hole, were created by an artist who moved back to this state due to World War I. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maine (The second painting is Christina's World.)):
    Name this state, the frequent subject of paintings by Marsden Hartley. The title girl of another painting set in this state looks up at the Olson House.
  Part 2 (ans: Germany [or Deutschland; accept German Empire or Deutsches Reich; accept Weimar Republic; accept Nazi Germany]):
    Before returning to the US, Hartley depicted several military decorations in his abstract portrait of an officer from this country. One of this country's leaders labeled its New Objectivity movement as "degenerate art."
  Part 3 (ans: I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold (by Charles Demuth)):
    The genesis of this Precisionist painting supposedly occurred when an author waiting for Hartley to answer his door watched traffic rush by in the rain outside, inspiring a poem that led a different artist to create this painting.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: In an essay about "rethinking" this concept, Nancy Fraser argues that its formulator ignored the exclusion of minority groups. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: public sphere [or Offentlichkeit; accept The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society; accept Strukturwandel der Offentlichkeit. Untersuchungen zu einer Kategorie der burgerlichen Gesellschaft; accept "Rethinking the Public Sphere: A Contribution to the Critique of Actually Existing Democracy"; reject "private sphere"]):
    Name this area of social life whose "structural transformation" is examined in a book by Jurgen Habermas ("YUR-gun HAH-bur-moss").
  Part 2 (ans: communicative [or kommunikativen; accept communicative action or The Theory of Communicative Action or Theorie des kommunikativen Handelns]):
    Habermas uses this adjective to describe the power and rationality available in the public sphere. A behavior described by this adjective titles a work that posits a societal colonization of the lifeworld by systems.
  Part 3 (ans: Germany [or Federal Republic of Germany or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; accept Weimar Republic; accept West Germany]):
    Jurgen Habermas was born in this country, where the theory of communicative action led him to diverge from a school of social theory led by Theodor Adorno.

[B5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Wawelberg (vaa-vel-BAIRG) Group sparked a conflict in this region by blowing up seven rail bridges. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Silesia [or Upper Silesia; or Lower Silesia]):
    Name this region, the site of the Battle of Annaberg. An uprising in this region began after a 1921 plebiscite stipulated by the Treaty of Versailles.
  Part 2 (ans: Weimar Republic [or Weimarer Republik; prompt on German Republic]):
    The Silesian Uprisings were a crisis for this German government. This interwar government, formed after the abdication of Kaiser Wilhelm II, included Paul von Hindenburg as president after 1925.
  Part 3 (ans: Warsaw [or Warszawa]):
    The Second Silesian Uprising began after a newspaper misprinted the result of a 1920 battle in this city. Jurgen (YURG-en) Stroop suppressed an uprising in this city organized by the ZOB and ZZW.

[B6] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Practitioners of an art style that developed during this political period were often divided into "verists" and "classicists." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic [or German Reich; accept Weimar period; accept German Republic; prompt on Germany]):
    Name this period, during which the New Objectivity movement developed. In the period following it, many of its artworks were classified as "degenerate art" by its political successors.
  Part 2 (ans: expressionism):
    The New Objectivity movement formed as a reaction to this earlier artistic style. This movement's focus on exaggerated emotions is exemplified by Edvard Munch's depiction of a man clutching his face on a bridge in The Scream.
  Part 3 (ans: Metropolis [or Großstadt] (by Otto Dix)):
    This New Objectivity painting depicts crippled veterans of World War I on its left and right being ignored by prostitutes wearing fur. The central panel of this painting shows Alfred Schulze playing saxophone in a band at a nightclub.

[B7] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A character whistles this theme after his shadow appears on his own wanted poster before he buys a girl a balloon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "In the Hall of the Mountain King" [or "I Dovregubbens hall" or "In der Halle des Bergkonigs"; prompt on Peer Gynt]):
    Name this musical piece which accompanies a child murderer who is hunted down by a criminal network in a 1931 film.
  Part 2 (ans: Fritz Lang):
    "In the Hall of the Mountain King" is whistled by a man who murders to "escape [himself]" in M, a film by this director. This director pioneered the world of science fiction in cinema with his silent film Metropolis.
  Part 3 (ans: Federal Republic of Germany [or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; accept Weimar Republic or Weimar Germany]):
    Fritz Lang belonged to this country's school of "expressionism." It's competitiveness in the worldwide film industry largely fell apart after directors like Lang fled due to the rise of Hitler.

[B8] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: While in power during this period, the Social Democratic Party or SPD controversially employed the far-right Freikorps to suppress uprisings by the Spartacus League and the Ruhr Red Army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic [or Weimar Germany]):
    Name this government established after World War I that preceded the rise of Nazi Germany. It is named for the German town where its constitution was established.
  Part 2 (ans: Kapp Putsch):
    The SPD called a general strike that ended this attempted 1920 coup. This right-wing coup began when Walther von Luttwitz refused to dissolve the Marinebrigade Ehrhardt ("ma-REEN-uh-brih-GAH-duh AIR-hart"), after which he ordered them to occupy Berlin and replace Ebert with the namesake Prussian civil servant.
  Part 3 (ans: Organization Consul [or O.C.]):
    After the failure of the Kapp Putsch, many members of the Marinebrigade Ehrhardt joined this far-right group that assassinated liberal Foreign Minister Walter Rathenau ("VAHL-ter RAH-tuh-now") and Finance Minister Matthias Erzberger ("mah-TEE-ahss AIRTS-bair-guh").

[B9] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This period was marked by hyperinflation and the rise of street violence from groups such as the Freikorps (FRY-core). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    Identify this period of German history that followed World War I and was named for the city where its constitution was written in 1919.
  Part 2 (ans: Franz von Papen):
    This vice-chancellor, appointed by Hindenburg to moderate Hitler, lost power in the German government after the Night of the Long Knives. He served the Nazi regime as ambassador to Austria and Turkey, leading to his conviction at Nuremberg.
  Part 3 (ans: Marburg speech):
    At Nuremberg, von Papen's defense pointed to this 1934 speech against the Nazis, which was the last public criticism of Hitler in Germany before World War II.

[B10] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this man's plays calls for the playing of a medley of sounds, including wind, waves, galloping horses, and a train whistle, as the stage revolves following the protagonist's firing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elmer Rice [or Elmer Leopold Reizenstein]):
    Name this American playwright whose only expressionistic play features a bookkeeper named Mr. Zero, who ends up in the Elysian Fields after being executed for killing his boss.
  Part 2 (ans: Germany [or Federal Republic of Germany; or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; accept Weimar Republic or Weimarer Republik]):
    Rice's The Adding Machine draws on From Morn to Midnight, a play about an unnamed clerk by this country's author Georg Kaiser (GAY-org KYE-zer). In the aftermath of World War I, Eugene O'Neill claimed to not be influenced by this country's expressionist movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Machinal):
    Like The Adding Machine, this 1928 expressionist play by Sophie Treadwell centers on an unnamed clerical worker, in this case a Young Woman who is sent to the electric chair after killing her boss-turned-husband George.

[B11] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Harry Graf Kessler predicted that this government was doomed for the start, though he still played a part in it by serving as ambassador to the newly created country of Poland. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    Identify this German government during the 1920s, which gave way to the Nazis thanks to chronic political and economic instability.
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Rathenau ["ROT"-uh-"now"]):
    This Jewish businessman and Weimar-era statesman negotiated the Treaty of Rapallo with the Soviet Union. He was assassinated by the right-wing Operation Consul, after which he was seen as a democratic martyr.
  Part 3 (ans: stab in the back legend/myth [or backstab legend/myth; or Dolchstoßlegende]):
    Right-wing nationalists in the Weimar Republic promoted this myth, which alleged that Germany had lost World War I because its troops were betrayed by civilians and nefarious Jewish conspiracies on the home front. It's most commonly referred to in English with a four-word name.

[B12] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This person employed the help of the right wing Freikorps to crush a Communist uprising, but the Freikorps turned on him in the Kapp Putsch. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Friedrich Ebert):
    Name this first person who was succeeded as President of his country by Paul von Hindenburg. This person's tenure saw the Allied occupation of the Ruhr and a severe bout of hyperinflation.
  Part 2 (ans: Spartacist uprising [or January uprising; Spartakusbund uprising; Spartakusaufstand; Januaraufstand]):
    The Communist uprising Ebert crushed using the Freikorps had this name. The group which perpetrated this event published a newspaper called "The Red Flag" and was led by Rosa Luxembourg and Karl Liebknecht.
  Part 3 (ans: Weimar Republic [or Weimarer Republik; Weimar Germany]):
    The Spartacist uprising sought to topple this interwar German government. This government's economic weaknesses allowed it to be taken over by Adolf Hitler.

[B13] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This government's minister Walther Rathenau was assassinated for signing the Treaty of Rapallo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    Name this interwar government of Germany that was ended when Paul von Hindenburg signed the Enabling Act.
  Part 2 (ans: Spartacus League [or Spartacist League]):
    The Weimar Republic faced an uprising in 1918 led by this communist group led by Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg. This group published the newspaper The Red Flag.
  Part 3 (ans: Kapp putsch):
    This 1920 coup against the Weimar government was supported by the right-wing Freikorps. It was defeated by a general strike, which in turn developed into a left-wing uprising in the Ruhr region.

[B14] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This party declared in its manifesto that "The question today is not democracy or dictatorship. The question that history has put on the agenda reads: 'bourgeois democracy or socialist democracy.'" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spartacist League):
    Name this party, which joined the Independent Socialists to try to overthrow the government of Germany in 1919.
  Part 2 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    The government of Germany at the time of the 1919 uprising was known by this name, after the city in which the constitutional assembly that created it had been held.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa Luxemburg):
    Along with Karl Liebknecht, this socialist agitator and author of The Accumulation of Capital founded the Spartacist League.

[B15] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The last of these events began with a coordinated attack by the Wawelberg Group on seven rail bridges, and ended with a general amnesty and the disbanding of the murderous Grenzschutz border guards. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Silesian Uprisings [accept synonyms for "uprising," such as rebellion]):
    Identify these three insurrections led by Poles from 1919-21 in a historical region partitioned into "Upper" and "Lower" areas by a plebiscite mandated by the Treaty of Versailles.
  Part 2 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    The western part of Upper Silesia was controlled by this government, a representative democracy which remained in power until 1933, when the Nazis took over.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Warsaw):
    The Second Silesian Uprising broke out in response to a false German report of a Polish loss in this decisive 1920 battle of the Polish-Soviet War, in which Jozef Pilsudski's forces drove Mikhail Tukhachevsky's troops behind the Neman River.

[B16] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel set during this time period describes Johannes Pinneberg's struggles working at the department store Mandels and his inability to keep a job during a terrible economic crisis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic [prompt on "Germany"]):
    Name this government, which is in power during the action of the novel Little Man, What Now? The play I Am A Camera adapted stories set during this government's tenure by Christopher Isherwood.
  Part 2 (ans: Hans Fallada [or Rudolf Ditzen]):
    This author wrote Little Man, What Now? and a novel in which Otto and Anna Quangel are executed for secretly sending out postcards urging resistance against Hitler, Every Man Dies Alone.
  Part 3 (ans: Annelies Marie "Anne" Frank):
    Like the Quangels, this teenage author hid from the Gestapo, in her case using the phrase "Dear Kitty" to begin diary entries during the two years she spent living in Amsterdam's Secret Annex.

[B17] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Germany lost both World Wars, but the time between those wars wasn't too great for it either. Answer some questions about that period in German history. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic (prompt on "German Reich")):
    This government was created after the First World War in the namesake town. In power until the rise of the Third Reich, it had to deal with hyperinflation and the payment of $5 billion in war reparations.
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Ebert):
    This first president of the Weimar Republic was Germany's first democratically elected leader. This Social Democrat signed a pact with Army Quartermaster General Wilhelm Groener and fled Berlin during the Kapp Putsch.
  Part 3 (ans: burning of the Reichstag (accept equivalents like "fire" and "arson")):
    This February 1933 event occurred six days before Parliamentary elections. Allegedly set by Marinus van der Lubbe, the Nazi party blamed this event on the Communists.

[B18] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Clara Zetkin and Leo Jogiches belonged to this group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spartacus League [or Spartakusbund; or Spartacists; prompt on "KPD" or "Communist Party of Germany"]):
    Name this group whose worldview was outlined in their "Junius" pamphlet. This group desired the "re-conquest of the Party from the bottom up."
  Part 2 (ans: Rosa Luxemburg):
    This person co-led the Spartacus League. The founder of "The Red Flag" newspaper, this person was possibly killed by Hermann Souchon before being thrown in the Landwehr Canal.
  Part 3 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    The Spartacist League was put down by the right-wing Freikorps on the orders of Friedrich Ebert, who led this government. This government led post-WWI Germany through a period of hyperinflation.

[B19] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man agreed to a deal with Wilhelm Groener that guaranteed him the support of his country's military. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Friedrich Ebert):
    Name this man who came to power following the resignation of Max von Baden.
  Part 2 (ans: Weimar Republic [accept the German Reich]):
    Friedrich Ebert was the first president of this republic, which was established following World War I. This republic was later also led by Paul von Hindenburg.
  Part 3 (ans: hyperinflation [prompt on inflation]):
    From 1921 to 1924, the Weimar Republic underwent this economic phenomenon, caused in part by the Treaty of Versailles. It ended after the introduction of the Rentenmark.

[B20] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: One leader of this uprising outlined her political beliefs in Dialectic of Spontaneity and Organization. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spartacist uprising or revolt (or Spartakusaufstand)):
    Name this German communist worker's revolt spearheaded by Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht.
  Part 2 (ans: Weimar Republic):
    The Spartacist Uprising took place during this period of German government, whose presidents included Friedrich Ebert and Paul von Hindenburg.
  Part 3 (ans: Kurt von Schleicher):
    This last chancellor of the Weimar Republic tried to rein in the Nazi Party but earned the hatred of Franz von Papen, who persuaded Hindenburg to replace this man with Hitler. He was later killed during the Night of the Long Knives.

[B21] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Hyperinflation in this polity was brought about by the large reparations forced upon it by the Treaty of Versailles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Weimar Republic [prompt on Germany]):
    Identify this government which took over after the 1919 German Revolution ousted the monarchy. Its first President was Friedrich Ebert, who was succeeded by Paul von Hindenburg.
  Part 2 (ans: Spartacus League or Spartacists [accept Spartakusbund]):
    Also fighting for power in the revolution was this Marxist organization led by Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht. They led a brief uprising which was quashed Gustav Noske's Freikorps.
  Part 3 (ans: Enabling Act of 1933 [or Ermachtigungsgesetz]):
    The Weimar Republic basically came to an end with the passage of this 1933 law, which allowed the Nazi-controlled Cabinet to violate the Constitution and pass laws without consulting the Reichstag.
