=== STOCK CLUES: Thomas Middleton ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Middleton
  - In one play by this author, the fool Ward swears not to eat "eggs in moonshine", as they give him erections; that play opens as a man brags to his mother of his "unvalued'st purchase" of a wife.
  - Another play by this author sees a woman hide a baby under some mutton to tricks the promoters into taking her child; that play sees foolish University graduate Tim first speaks to his fiancee in Latin, only to mistake her Welsh for Hebrew.
  - A chess match between Mother and Livia mirrors a rape carried out above and offstage, in a play by this author, which ends with a bloody masque in which Hippolito's and Isabella's incest is punished and Leantio's death avenged, all as the marriage of the Duke and Bianca ends in poisoned death.
  - Allwit and his wife expel Sir Walter just as news comes that he slew the lover of his fiancee, Touchwood, who is wed to Moll Yellowhammer after their double funeral is revealed as a ruse in a comedy by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Women Beware Women and A Chaste Maid in Cheapside. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Specific term required. A Wendy Doniger book on this motif chronicles examples ranging from All's Lost by Lust to a "truly terrible" poem by Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bed trick [accept The Bedtrick: Tales of Sex and Masquerade]):
    Give this term for a plot device central to English Renaissance plays like Thomas Heywood's The Fair Maid of the West. Mariana replaces Isabella in one of these plot devices from Measure for Measure.
  Part 2 (ans: The Changeling (by Thomas Middleton and William Rowley)):
    De Flores murders the substitute in this play's bed trick under cover of a fire when her mistress worries that daylight will reveal her. In this play's comic subplot, Antonio enters a madhouse to try to seduce a doctor's wife.
  Part 3 (ans: revenge [accept revenge tragedies or revenge plays; accept vengeance; accept The Revenger's Tragedy]):
    A bed trick also appears in a Thomas Middleton "tragedy" about Vindice, who seeks this concept. Seneca's dramas influenced a genre of bloody plays named for this concept, which often featured murdered ghosts.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: An insane Welshman in this play cries out "Cat-whore, cat-whore! Her Parmesan, her Parmesan!" in reference to a time when a feline stole a piece of his cheese. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Changeling):
    Alibius oversees a madhouse where he confines his wife Isabella to dissuade her from committing adultery in what play?
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Middleton):
    The Changeling was a collaboration between William Rowley and this author; while Rowley wrote the scenes set in the madhouse, this Jacobean-era playwright of A Chaste Maid in Cheapside and The Revenger's Tragedy wrote the scenes set in Vermandero's castle.
  Part 3 (ans: The Duchess of Malfi {The Duchess of Malfi is by John Webster.}):
    A character in this play by a different author is diagnosed with lycanthropia and attacks his own shadow in a bout of madness. In this play, a madman claims that his "pillow is stuffed with a litter of porcupines" shortly before several characters are strangled.

[B3] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: "Touchwood," a British idiom analogous to the phrase "knock on wood," was a surprisingly common character name in 17th and 18th-century comedies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English Restoration ):
    The devious Maskwell schemes to steal Touchwood's property and win over Cynthia in William Congreve's The Double Dealer, a comedy from this period following the Interregnum.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Middleton (The first play is A Chaste Maid in Cheapside.)):
    In a city comedy by this author about Moll Yellowhammer, Touchwood Senior is so virile that he must leave his wife for fear of having another child. Thomas Dekker co-wrote the comedy The Honest Whore with this Jacobean playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: The Belle's Stratagem (Farquhar's play is The Beaux' Stratagem.)):
    Lady Frances dupes her jealous husband George Touchwood at a masquerade ball in a subplot in this play. Harriet Smithson made her name starring as Letitia Hardy in this comedy by Hannah Cowley, whose title alludes to an earlier play by George Farquhar.

[B4] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about geography in early modern English drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tamburlaine):
    The 1924 essay Marlowe's Map demonstrated that this play was informed by careful research in the geographic writings of Abraham Ortelius. Those locations include Damascus, Zanzibar, and Persepolis, which the title character sacks after Cosroe betrays his brother, Mycetes.
  Part 2 (ans: The Winter's Tale):
    In contrast to Marlowe's scrupulous fact-checking, Shakespeare set this play on the non-existent "coast of Bohemia". This play contains the famous stage direction "exit, pursued by a bear".
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Middleton):
    The reputation of the London district in which it is set contributed to the hilarity of this author's play A Chaste Maid in Cheapside. This author of the Revenger's Tragedy also may have co-written Timon of Athens with Shakespeare.

[B5] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Jacobean theatre featured a host of strong female characters that put most contemporary drama to shame. For 10 points each, answer some questions on the "roaring girls" of the 16th-century stage:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Middleton and Thomas Dekker):
    These two authors dramatised the life of Mary Firth as Moll in The Roaring Girl. While the balance of their authorship has been contested, they both shared a first name.
  Part 2 (ans: John Webster):
    The story of the "roaring" play The White Devil is loosely based on the murder of Vittoria Accoramboni in 1585. Her surname was changed to Corombona by this author of the play.
  Part 3 (ans: The Swan Theatre):
    Along with Arden of Faversham, the aforementioned plays made up a Roaring Girls season at this Royal Shakespeare Company theatre in 2014. Ben Jonson described Shakespeare as this animal "of Avon".

[B6] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of this author's tragedies, Bianca and Leantio are caught in a messy love quadrangle which ends with most characters dead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Middleton):
    Name this this author of Women Beware Women and The Revenger's Tragedy, a Jacobean playwright who may have written part of All's Well That Ends Well.
  Part 2 (ans: Timon of Athens):
    Middleton, who may have collaborated with Shakespeare on this other play. In this play, an overly generous Greek dude declares himself an enemy of mankind after realizing that his so-called friends are just parasites.
  Part 3 (ans: chess [or playing chess]):
    A satirical play by Middleton on the relationship between Spain and Great Britain is allegorically themed for this activity. Ideas and phrases from this activity also permeate Samuel Beckett's play Endgame.

[B7] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Antonio and Franciscus, who feigned foolishness and madness so as to seduce Isabella, are originally accused of the central murder of this play, which occurs when a servant shows Alonzo de Piracquo secret passages. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: The Changeling ):
    Name this play, in which Beatrice-Joanna induces Deflores to kill her fiance, so that she might wed Alsemero, but the two die together after their affair is discovered by Alsemero and Tomazo seeks revenge for his brother.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Middleton):
    The Changeling was written by William Rowley and this Jacobean dramatist, whose other works include A Chaste Maid in Cheapside, Women Beware Women, and A Game of Chess. Contemporary work believes that he, not Cyril Torneur, wrote The Revenger's Tragedy.
  Part 3 (ans: The Tragedy ofMacbeth):
    Gary Taylor concluded that Middleton wrote approximately eleven percent of this Shakespeare tragedy, particularly the scenes with Hecate, Act 3, Scene 5 and Act 4, Scene 1. Its title thane becomes king of Scotland after murdering Duncan.
