=== STOCK CLUES: The Changeling ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Changeling
  - One character in this play soliloquizes that he "cannot but choose to love" a woman who would rather wear his tanned pelt than have him touch her glove. [PWR]
  - One character in this play yawns, sneezes, and bursts out laughing after drinking from a glass inscribed with the letter 'M'. [PWR]
  - In a dumbshow before this play's fourth act, the ghost of one character shows (+) his hand with a missing finger to his murderer who cut it off to retrieve a diamond ring.
  - In this play, Franciscus and Antonio pretend to be fools in order to gain access to the wife of Alibius, a doctor who runs the madhouse. [PWR]
  - An ugly servant in this play starts a fire in order to conceal a (*) bed trick involving Diaphanta. [PWR]
  - In this play set in the Spanish city of Alicante, Alonzo de Piracquo is killed by the servant De Flores on the orders of Beatrice-Joanna so she can marry the Valencian nobleman Alsemero.
  - For 10 points, name this tragedy written by William Rowley and Thomas Middleton. [GIVE]

[T2] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Changeling
  - After being refused a kiss, a character in this play exclaims "you forget yourself; a woman dipped in blood, and talk of modesty?" Its first scene ends with that character returning a dropped glove to a woman who immediately takes off her other glove to signify her repulsion to his touch.
  - This play's subplot takes place in a madhouse where Lollio tries to seduce Isabella, the wife of Alibius.
  - In order to pass her husband's virginity test, its main character pays her servant Diaphanta to perform the bed trick on her wedding night.
  - It takes place in Alicante, where its antagonist murders Alonzo de Piracquo to enable its main character to marry Alsemero.
  - That antagonist, De Flores, is obsessed with the villainous Beatrice-Joanna.
  - For 10 points, name this Jacobean tragedy collaborated on by William Rowley and Thomas Middleton. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Specific term required. A Wendy Doniger book on this motif chronicles examples ranging from All's Lost by Lust to a "truly terrible" poem by Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bed trick [accept The Bedtrick: Tales of Sex and Masquerade]):
    Give this term for a plot device central to English Renaissance plays like Thomas Heywood's The Fair Maid of the West. Mariana replaces Isabella in one of these plot devices from Measure for Measure.
  Part 2 (ans: The Changeling (by Thomas Middleton and William Rowley)):
    De Flores murders the substitute in this play's bed trick under cover of a fire when her mistress worries that daylight will reveal her. In this play's comic subplot, Antonio enters a madhouse to try to seduce a doctor's wife.
  Part 3 (ans: revenge [accept revenge tragedies or revenge plays; accept vengeance; accept The Revenger's Tragedy]):
    A bed trick also appears in a Thomas Middleton "tragedy" about Vindice, who seeks this concept. Seneca's dramas influenced a genre of bloody plays named for this concept, which often featured murdered ghosts.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: An insane Welshman in this play cries out "Cat-whore, cat-whore! Her Parmesan, her Parmesan!" in reference to a time when a feline stole a piece of his cheese. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Changeling):
    Alibius oversees a madhouse where he confines his wife Isabella to dissuade her from committing adultery in what play?
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Middleton):
    The Changeling was a collaboration between William Rowley and this author; while Rowley wrote the scenes set in the madhouse, this Jacobean-era playwright of A Chaste Maid in Cheapside and The Revenger's Tragedy wrote the scenes set in Vermandero's castle.
  Part 3 (ans: The Duchess of Malfi {The Duchess of Malfi is by John Webster.}):
    A character in this play by a different author is diagnosed with lycanthropia and attacks his own shadow in a bout of madness. In this play, a madman claims that his "pillow is stuffed with a litter of porcupines" shortly before several characters are strangled.

[B3] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: Identify the following about the works of William Rowley, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Changeling):
    Written with Middleton, this play sees Beatrice hire De Flores to kill her fiance Alonzo; he rapes her as payment. Beatrice then uses Diaphanta as a substitute on her first night with Alsemero and has De Flores kill her, too.
  Part 2 (ans: Merlin):
    Rowley also wrote a play about the birth of this legendary figure, in which he is begotten by a devil on the poor country-girl Joan. His first adventure in that play is to warn Vortiger that he will be defeated by Uter Pendragon.
  Part 3 (ans: A New Wonder, a Woman Never Vexed):
    This Rowley comedy, whose title character is an unnamed widow who marries Stephen Foster, ends similarly to The Shoemaker's Holiday, with Henry III solving all problems when he comes to see Alderman Bruin's hospital.

[B4] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Antonio and Franciscus, who feigned foolishness and madness so as to seduce Isabella, are originally accused of the central murder of this play, which occurs when a servant shows Alonzo de Piracquo secret passages. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: The Changeling ):
    Name this play, in which Beatrice-Joanna induces Deflores to kill her fiance, so that she might wed Alsemero, but the two die together after their affair is discovered by Alsemero and Tomazo seeks revenge for his brother.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Middleton):
    The Changeling was written by William Rowley and this Jacobean dramatist, whose other works include A Chaste Maid in Cheapside, Women Beware Women, and A Game of Chess. Contemporary work believes that he, not Cyril Torneur, wrote The Revenger's Tragedy.
  Part 3 (ans: The Tragedy ofMacbeth):
    Gary Taylor concluded that Middleton wrote approximately eleven percent of this Shakespeare tragedy, particularly the scenes with Hecate, Act 3, Scene 5 and Act 4, Scene 1. Its title thane becomes king of Scotland after murdering Duncan.
