=== STOCK CLUES: The Revenger's Tragedy ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 19 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: revenge [or synonyms such as vengeance accept Vindice or The Revenger's Tragedy; accept vendetta or feud; accept descriptions of killing in response to a crime or wrong; prompt on killing or equivalents by asking "for what purpose?"]
  - Description acceptable.
  - A man whose name means this action asks, "Is there no thunder left" and remarks that "when thunder claps, heaven likes" his actions.
  - A pirate's son named Hoffman disguises himself as Otho to perform this action in a play by Henry Chettle.
  - In a play subtitled for the "honest man's" instance of this action, Montferrers unusually counsels Charlemont [emphasize] against it.
  - A character named for this action forces a man to watch as his bastard son Spurio cuckolds him.
  - That character, whose name means this action in Italian, tricks the Duke into kissing Gloriana's poisoned skull.
  - A play titled for this action was long considered to be by Cyril Tourneur but is now attributed to Thomas Middleton.
  - Seneca's tragedies inspired this action's namesake genre of violent English plays.
  - For 10 points, Hamlet spends his play deliberating whether to take what action? [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: revenge [accept The Revenger's Tragedy; do not accept or prompt on similar answers, such as "vengeance"]
  - In one play, a character notes "intemperate agues  make physicians cruel" after claiming that this concept "ne'er will slack till it hath spent his fuel." In a play named for this concept, a character whose name references this concept disguises himself as Piato to trick Lussurioso, the Duke's heir.
  - Paraphrasing The True Tragedy of Richard III, a character claims that "the croaking raven doth bellow for" this concept.
  - This concept titles a play that was once attributed to Cyril Tourneur  but now attributed to Thomas Middleton.
  - The ghost of Don Andrea and a personification of this concept make up the chorus of a play about the mad Hieronimo.
  - Tamora disguises herself as the spirit of this concept to trick Titus Andronicus after he feigns madness.
  - For 10 points, a form of Jacobean and Elizabethan tragedy named after what concept is exemplified by plays like The Duchess of Malfi and Hamlet? [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Revenger's Tragedy
  - One character in this play observes "tell but some woman a secret over night / your doctor may find it in the urinal i'th' morning" and claims "that woman is all male whom none can enter." In the final act of this play, its protagonist asks thunder "Dost know thy cue, thy big-voiced crier" while stabbing a rival.
  - One character in this play is accidentally killed by his brothers Ambitioso and Supervacuo when they deliver a signet ring.
  - Its protagonist bedecks the skull of his dead fiancee for a tryst with the Duke, and takes the guise of the pander Piato to secure his sister Castiza for the Duke's son Lussurioso, whom he kills with the aid of his brother Hippolito.
  - Now thought to be written by Thomas Middleton, for 10 points, name this Jacobean tragedy about the vengeance of Vindice, which for many years was attributed to Cyril Tourneur. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Specific term required. A Wendy Doniger book on this motif chronicles examples ranging from All's Lost by Lust to a "truly terrible" poem by Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bed trick [accept The Bedtrick: Tales of Sex and Masquerade]):
    Give this term for a plot device central to English Renaissance plays like Thomas Heywood's The Fair Maid of the West. Mariana replaces Isabella in one of these plot devices from Measure for Measure.
  Part 2 (ans: The Changeling (by Thomas Middleton and William Rowley)):
    De Flores murders the substitute in this play's bed trick under cover of a fire when her mistress worries that daylight will reveal her. In this play's comic subplot, Antonio enters a madhouse to try to seduce a doctor's wife.
  Part 3 (ans: revenge [accept revenge tragedies or revenge plays; accept vengeance; accept The Revenger's Tragedy]):
    A bed trick also appears in a Thomas Middleton "tragedy" about Vindice, who seeks this concept. Seneca's dramas influenced a genre of bloody plays named for this concept, which often featured murdered ghosts.

[B2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a John Marston play titled for a man with this name, a group of conspirators bind Piero and cut out his tongue before killing him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio [accept Antonio's Revenge] (The other play is The Merchant of Venice.)):
    Give this name also shared by a merchant who agrees to give up a pound of his flesh if he is unable to pay back a loan.
  Part 2 (ans: tragedy [accept The Spanish Tragedy; accept revenge tragedy]):
    Hieronimo bites off his own tongue after he is arrested in a Thomas Kyd play set in Spain titled for this genre. The First Folio divided Shakespeare's plays into history, comedy, and this genre.
  Part 3 (ans: The Revenger's Tragedy):
    In this play long attributed to Cyril Tourneur but now believed to have been written by Thomas Middleton, the Duke's tongue dissolves after he kisses a skull poisoned by Vindice.

[B3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The genre of the "villain play," in which evil characters are given leading roles, flourished in popularity during the Elizabethan era. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]):
    This playwright used villains as the protagonists of his plays The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Giles Over-reach [or Sir Giles Over-reach]):
    Philip Massinger's A New Way to Pay Old Debts is best remembered for this villain who scams his nephew Frank Welborn into poverty. Edmund Kean's performances helped repopularize this character, whose name hints at his selfishness and greed.
  Part 3 (ans: revenge [accept revenge tragedy; accept The Revenger's Tragedy]):
    A genre of tragedy named for this action often included an archetypal villain, such as Lorenzo in Thomas Kyd's The Spanish Tragedy. Vindice is the title performer of this action in a tragedy once thought to be by Cyril Tourneur but now attributed to Thomas Middleton.

[B4] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A book titled for this concept argues that there are "no novelists in English worth reading" beyond Jane Austen, George Eliot, Henry James, and Joseph Conrad. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tradition [accept The Great Tradition]):
    Name this concept that titles a 1948 study by F. R. Leavis. An essay titled for this concept "and the Individual Talent" argues that poets engage in a "continual extinction of personality."
  Part 2 (ans: T. S. Eliot):
    "Tradition and the Individual Talent" was collected in The Sacred Wood, a book of literary criticism written by this author. This author noted "April is the cruelest month" at the beginning of his poem The Waste Land.
  Part 3 (ans: The Revenger's Tragedy):
    In "Tradition and the Individual Talent," Eliot quotes a passage from this play to illustrate how the poet combines human emotions into a purer artistic emotion. This Jacobean play is today generally attributed to Thomas Middleton, instead of Cyril Tourneur ("turner").

[B5] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a dumbshow presented by a conjurer in Act II of The White Devil, Isabella dies after performing this action on a portrait of her husband. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kissing a poisoned object [accept more specific answers such as "book" or "portrait" or "corpse" in place of "object"]):
    Name this action that also causes the death of the Cardinal's mistress Julia in The Duchess of Malfi. A motif in which tyrants die via performing this action appears in Thomas Middleton's plays The Second Maiden's Tragedy and The Duke of Milan.
  Part 2 (ans: John Webster):
    This author used the motif of a poisoned kiss in his aforementioned bloody tragedies The White Devil and The Duchess of Malfi.
  Part 3 (ans: The Revenger's Tragedy):
    The Duke's lips are eaten away after he kisses the poisoned skull of Gloriana in this Middleton play about Vindice's machinations that was once attributed to Cyril Tourneur.

[B6] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Ambitioso and Supervacuo are surprised to learn that they have killed their brother Junior instead of Lussurioso. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Revenger's Tragedy):
    Name this play attributed at times to both Cyril Tourneur and Thomas Middleton, which is set in an unnamed court in Italy. Its title character, Vindice, disguises himself as Piato and discovers that his mother is subject to "frailty."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Kyd):
    The Revenger's Tragedy was inspired by the works of this playwright, who popularized the revenge tragedy genre in England. He wrote a now-lost predecessor to Hamlet as well as The Spanish Tragedy.
  Part 3 (ans: the skull of Gloriana [or disguised skeleton; prompt on corpse]):
    In The Revenger's Tragedy, the immoral Duke dies when he kisses this object. In another scene, this object is curiously given a female sexuality when it is presented "dressed in tires."

[B7] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play's amazing third act, a sex-crazed Duke dies after kissing a poisoned skull disguised as a beautiful woman, but not before he sees his wife cuckold him with his bastard son Spurio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Revenger's Tragedy):
    Name this Jacobean play in which Vindice disguises himself as the pander Piato and murders both the Duke and the Duke's immoral son Lussurioso.
  Part 2 (ans: Timon of Athens):
    The Revenger's Tragedy's probable author, Thomas Middleton, may have collaborated with Shakespeare on this play, whose title character gives away all his wealth before moving to the wilderness and becoming a bitter misanthrope.
  Part 3 (ans: A Trick to Catch the Old One):
    In this city comedy by Middleton, Witgood brings his courtesan to London and pretends that she's a rich widow, setting off schemes by the rival usurers Lucre and Hoard. Philip Massinger used its plot as the basis for A New Way to Pay Old Debts.
