=== STOCK CLUES: Charles Le Brun ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: French Academy [or Academy of Fine Arts or Academie des Beaux-Arts or Academie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture or Academy of Painting and Sculpture; accept Academie Royale: A History in Portraits; prompt on Institut de France; prompt on Royal Academy said in that order; prompt on French government or similar answers; prompt on French ministry of arts; reject "salons"] (The first sentence refers to Hyacinthe Rigaud's portrait of Charles Le Brun and Pierre Mignard. The second sentence refers to Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun's painting Peace Bringing Back Abundance.)
  - A portrait of two members of this institution, one of whom appears to be making a finger-gun-like gesture, appears on the cover of Hannah Williams's history of it in Portraits.
  - A painting created for this institution depicts a green-cloaked Peace ushering in a bare-breasted Abundance.
  - This institution codified a hierarchy that placed paintings of historical scenes at the top and still lifes at the bottom.
  - This institution awarded a scholarship that funded students to stay in the Palazzo Mancini to study art in Rome.
  - Members of this institution had their work highlighted in official Salons.
  - For 10 points, identify this institution founded by Charles Le Brun whose membership included the artists Antoine Watteau  and Jacques-Louis David. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Le Brun
  - In 2013, this artist's long-lost The Sacrifice of Polyxena was discovered hanging next to the bathroom in the Coco Chanel suite at the Paris Ritz.
  - This artist made unsettling engravings of human faces distorted to resemble animals like owls and lions as part of a popular lecture on physiognomy that inspired the facial expressions in Watson and the Shark.
  - He's not Italian, but his series on the life of Alexander the Great won him his most famous patron.
  - Servants hold blue umbrellas over the title statesman in this man's portrait of Pierre Seguier on horseback.
  - This artist decorated the Vaux-le-Vicomte under the patronage of Nicolas Fouquet.
  - With Jules Hardoin-Mansart, this artist completed interior designs for the Salons of War and Peace.
  - For 10 points, the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles was designed by what "first painter" under Louis XIV, whose distant cousin married the painter Elisabeth Vigee? [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Le Brun
  - This artist earned his most powerful admirer after painting a work showing the "queens of Persia at the feet of Alexander," his The Tent of Darius.
  - A 2013 fire damaged the Hotel Lambert, which contains this painter's Gallery of Hercules, executed while he was also painting works in Vaux-le-Vicomte, the home of a wealthy superintendent of finances.
  - With the financial backing of another political ally, this artist reshaped the workshop previously run by Charles de Comans and Raphael de la Planche into a tapestry manufactory called the Gobelins (goh-beh-lanz).
  - This painter, who was heavily influenced by Nicolas Poussin, took control of two of France's major art academies with the help of Jean-Baptiste Colbert.
  - This man painted The King Governs Alone as the central ceiling panel for the Hall of Mirrors in his role as the main decorator of the Palace of Versailles.
  - For 10 points, what 17th-century French "first painter to the king" originated the "Louis XIV  style"? [GIVE]

[T4] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles Le Brun
  - In one painting by this artist, a king on horseback wearing a laurel wreath is about to trample the snake heads of a winged demon as that king undergoes apotheosis. [PWR]
  - In another of his paintings, an angry-looking, shirtless Indian king is carried in front of a warlord on a white horse. [PWR]
  - This head of the Gobelins manufactory made a tapestry of his painting that showed two Persian queens groveling before the title character and Hephaestion. [PWR]
  - This artist's series on The History of (*) Alexander includes Alexander and Porus and The Tent of Darius, which earned him the post of Chief Painter to the King.
  - He depicted his patron riding a white horse in between two members of his suite flanking him with parasols in Chancellor Seguier on Horseback.
  - The woman who painted Self-Portrait in a Straw Hat was married to this artist's distant relative.
  - For 10 points, name this seventeenth century French painter who decorated the salons of Peace and War, as well as the ceiling of the Hall of Mirrors at Versailles. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The ceiling of this building's Hercules room is adorned with Francois Lemoyne's painting The Apotheosis of Hercules. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palace of Versailles [or Chateau de Versailles]):
    Name this baroque French palace where Crossing the Rhine and The King Governs Alone adorn the ceiling of the Hall of Mirrors.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Brun [accept Charles Le Brun or Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun]):
    An artist with this surname was the "First Painter" to Louis XIV, and founded the French Academy after painting the walls of Versailles. A painter who hyphenated her maiden name Vigee (vee-jay) with this surname was the portraitist of Marie Antoinette.
  Part 3 (ans: Babylon [or Babilim or Babiru] (The last clue is from John Martin's depiction of Belshazzar's Feast)):
    Charles Le Brun depicted Alexander riding a chariot pulled by an elephant while entering this city. A man in black preaches to a crowd in white in a massive temple in a John Martin painting depicting a feast in this city.

[B2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The ceiling of this building's Hercules room is adorned with Francois Lemoyne's painting The Apotheosis of Hercules. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Palace of Versailles [or Chateau de Versailles]):
    Name this baroque French palace where Crossing the Rhine and The King Governs Alone adorn the ceiling of the Hall of Mirrors.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Brun [accept Charles Le Brun or Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun]):
    An artist with this surname was the "First Painter" to Louis XIV, and founded the French Academy after painting the walls of Versailles. A painter who hyphenated her maiden name Vigee (vee-jay) with this surname was the portraitist of Marie Antoinette.
  Part 3 (ans: Babylon [or Babilim or Babiru] (The last clue is from John Martin's depiction of Belshazzar's Feast)):
    Charles Le Brun depicted Alexander riding a chariot pulled by an elephant while entering this city. A man in black preaches to a crowd in white in a massive temple in a John Martin painting depicting a feast in this city.

[B3] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two groups named respectively for these two artists had a lengthy argument in the French Royal Academy over whether colour or drawing was more important in painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nicolas Poussin and Peter Paul Rubens [accept either order; also accept Poussinistes and Rubenistes in either order]):
    Name these two 17th-century painters. One painted Et in Arcadia Ego and A Dance to the Music of Time; the other painted the Marie de Medici cycle and many fleshy nudes.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Le Brun):
    The stoic, rationalist Poussinists were led by this "First Painter of the King," who painted the ceiling of the Hall of Mirrors. Copley based the facial expressions in Watson and the Shark on engravings by this painter.
  Part 3 (ans: The Embarkation for (the isle of) Cythera [or L'Embarquement pour Cythere; also accept Voyage or Pilgrimage in place of Embarkation]):
    The Poussiniste-Rubeniste debate is generally held to have ended with the Academy's acceptance of this Rococo painting by Jean-Antoine Watteau. It depicts numerous couples heading to Venus' birthplace.

[B4] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several of Roger de Piles's works argue for the position of one of these two factions, including his Dialogue on Colors and his Conversations on Color, the latter of which argues against an overreliance on antiquity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poussiniste and Rubeniste [or Poussinisme and Rubenisme or Nicolas Poussin and Peter Paul Rubens]):
    Name these two factions in the Academie's Querelle du Coloris, which take their names from two artists, who were identified as exemplifying dessin, or line, and coloris.
  Part 2 (ans: Titian [or Tiziano Vecelli or Tiziano Vecelio]):
    The Querelle erupted in 1671 when Philippe de Champaigne criticized this Venetian, citing Poussin and Raphael, and was rebutted by Gabriel Blanchard. His works include The Allegory of Age Governed by Prudence and Bacchus and Ariadne.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Le Brun):
    Premier Peintre du Roi at the time of the controversy, this painter of Venus Clipping Cupid's Wings sided with the Poussinistes, but his side eventually lost, with his replacement by the Rubeniste Pierre Mignard, de Piles's seat in the Academie, and eventually acceptance of Watteau's Pilgrimage to Cythera.

[B5] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A displeasing equestrian statue of this ruler was stuck in a corner of shrubbery until Francois Girardon modified it, carving the "mountain of virtue" under the horse into flames and the rider into Marcus Curtius. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Name this French king whose ugly statue by Bernini was balanced with a gigantic bronze equestrian statue by Girardon in the Place Vendome. Andre Le Notre landscaped this Sun King's Palace of Versailles expansions.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Brun [or Charles Le Brun; or Louise Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun; do not accept or prompt on "LeBron"]):
    According to Louis, the "greatest French painter of all time" was an artist with this surname who decorated the Hall of Mirrors and the Salons of War and Peace. A female artist with the maiden name Vigee who married into this family painted portraits of Marie Antoinette.
  Part 3 (ans: Jules Hardouin-Mansart [or Jules Hardouin-Mansart]):
    This chief architect of Louis XIV designed the Place Vendome as well as the Hall of Mirrors and other Versailles buildings such as the Grand Trianon and the Orangerie.

[B6] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Founded by its namesake in the mid-15th century, this organization was purchased for the crown by Colbert in 1662. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Gobelins Factory):
    Identify this factory originally founded as a dye works, which produced royal tapestries and furniture for Louis XIV.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Le Brun ):
    This artist was the director of the Gobelins factory from 1663 until 1690. You may know him better for his series on the battles of Alexander the Great, as well as for his Salons of War and Peace.
  Part 3 (ans: Simon Vouet):
    Le Brun owes much of his grand manner to this teacher of his, who was first painter to Louis XIII and painted allegories like The Riches and Time Vanquished by Hope, Love, and Fame.

[B7] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One artist with this last name depicted a girl using her hand to cover her left breast in The Bather. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Brun [or Charles Le Brun; or Louise Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun; or Madame Le Brun]):
    Give this last name of the artist of Self Portrait in a Straw Hat and many paintings of Marie Antoinette, which is also the last name of an artist who became "Chief Painter" to Louis XIV.
  Part 2 (ans: Palace of Versailles [or Chateau de Versailles; or Chateau of Versailles]):
    Charles Le Brun decorated seven rooms named for Roman deities at this location. The salons of war and peace are part of this complex, where Hardouin-Mansart designed a famous hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Domenichino [or Domenico Zampieri]):
    This other artist's works were included in the appartement du roi at Versailles. His red-clad Saint John the Evangelist stands between two putti struggling to hold up books, and he painted many frescoes of San Gennaro.
