Republic of Genoa	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Medieval and early modern maritime republic, trade rival of Venice and birthplace of Christopher Columbus.
Republic of Venice	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Maritime republic ruled by an elected doge, dominant in Mediterranean trade and a major Renaissance art center.
Russian Orthodox Church	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Eastern Orthodox church of Russia, subordinated to the state under Peter the Great and persecuted under Soviet rule.
Saladin	High and Late Medieval Europe	Muslim sultan who recaptured Jerusalem from the Crusaders in 1187, prompting the Third Crusade against him.
Salerno	High and Late Medieval Europe	Southern Italian city famed for Europe's earliest medical school, later a WWII Allied landing site.
Salt	Economy, Society, and Culture	Vital preservative and trade commodity, taxed and monopolized by many European states through history.
Sami	Economy, Society, and Culture	Indigenous reindeer-herding people of the Scandinavian and Russian Arctic, historically marginalized by Nordic states.
Sardinia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mediterranean island contested by Pisa, Aragon, and Savoy, later giving its name to the Kingdom that unified Italy.
Saxony	High and Late Medieval Europe	German duchy and later electorate, home to the Wettin dynasty and a major early Reformation stronghold.
Serbia	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Balkan nation that won autonomy from Ottoman rule in the 19th century, later central to the Yugoslav wars.
Serbs	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	South Slavic people whose medieval kingdom fell to the Ottomans, later leading the drive for Yugoslav unity.
serfs	Economy, Society, and Culture	Bound agricultural laborers tied to noble-owned land, emancipated in Russia only in 1861.
Seven Years' War	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1756-1763 global conflict pitting Britain and Prussia against France, Austria, and Russia.
Seville	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Andalusian city that monopolized Spain's American trade through its Casa de Contratacion.
silk	Economy, Society, and Culture	Luxury textile imported via trade routes from Asia, later produced domestically in Italy and France.
Simon de Montfort	High and Late Medieval Europe	English baron who led rebellion against Henry III and summoned an early representative Parliament.
Sir Francis Drake	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	English privateer who circumnavigated the globe and helped defeat the Spanish Armada.
Soviet Union	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Communist superpower formed after the Russian Revolution, dissolving in 1991 after decades of Cold War rivalry.
Stockholm	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Swedish capital, seat of the Vasa monarchy during Sweden's era as a Baltic great power.
Strasbourg	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Alsatian city and early Reformation center, later contested between France and Germany for centuries.
Syphilis	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Sexually transmitted disease that spread rapidly through Europe after Columbus's voyages, devastating populations.
the Fronde	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Mid-17th-century French noble and parliamentary revolts against royal authority during Louis XIV's minority.
the Venerable Bede	Early Medieval Europe	Anglo-Saxon monk whose Ecclesiastical History of the English People is a key source for early medieval England.
Tony Blair	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Labour prime minister who negotiated the Good Friday Agreement and joined the US-led Iraq War.
Tours	Early Medieval Europe	French city near which Charles Martel halted Umayyad expansion into Europe in 732.
United Kingdom	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	State formed by the 1801 union of Great Britain and Ireland, the era's dominant industrial and imperial power.
universities	Economy, Society, and Culture	Medieval institutions of higher learning founded at Bologna, Paris, and Oxford, chartered by church and crown.
Victor Emmanuel II	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	First king of unified Italy, crowned in 1861 after Cavour and Garibaldi's unification campaigns.
Vladimir Lenin	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Bolshevik leader who seized power in the 1917 October Revolution and founded the Soviet state.
Vyacheslav Molotov	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Soviet foreign minister who signed the 1939 non-aggression pact with Nazi Germany that bears his name.
War of the Rough Wooing	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1540s English military campaign to force a marriage alliance with Mary, Queen of Scots.
Wars of the Roses	High and Late Medieval Europe	Late-15th-century English civil wars between the houses of Lancaster and York, ended by Henry Tudor's victory.
William Wallace	High and Late Medieval Europe	Scottish knight who defeated the English at Stirling Bridge before his capture and execution.
Winchester	Early Medieval Europe	Former Anglo-Saxon capital of Wessex under Alfred the Great, later an important Norman administrative center.
women's suffrage	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Movement for women's voting rights, championed by suffragettes like the Pankhursts in Britain.
Worms	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	German city where Martin Luther defended his teachings before Charles V at the 1521 Diet.
York	High and Late Medieval Europe	Northern English city and namesake of the House of York in the Wars of the Roses.
Zionism	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Late-19th-century Jewish nationalist movement founded by Theodor Herzl, seeking a homeland in Palestine.
Acre	High and Late Medieval Europe	Crusader stronghold in the Levant, the last mainland Christian foothold to fall in 1291.
Adolf Hitler	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nazi dictator whose invasions triggered World War II and whose regime perpetrated the Holocaust.
Adolphe Thiers	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	French statesman who suppressed the Paris Commune and became first president of the Third Republic.
Alexander	Absolutism and the Early Modern State
Alexander III	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Reactionary Russian tsar who reversed his father's reforms after Alexander II's assassination.
Alexander Nevsky	High and Late Medieval Europe	Novgorodian prince who defeated Swedish and Teutonic Knight invaders while paying tribute to the Mongols.
Alexander the Great	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Macedonian king who conquered the Persian Empire and pushed to India, spreading Greek culture widely.
Alhambra Decree	High and Late Medieval Europe	1492 edict by Ferdinand and Isabella expelling Jews who refused conversion from Spain.
American Revolutionary War	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1775-1783 war in which American colonists, aided by France, won independence from Britain.
Anne Boleyn	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Second wife of Henry VIII, whose marriage prompted England's break with Rome; executed on adultery charges.
Anthony Eden	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	British prime minister whose career ended after the disastrous 1956 Suez Crisis.
Balkan Peninsula	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Southeastern European region of fragmenting Ottoman rule and rising nationalist rivalries before World War I.
Basil	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium
Basques	High and Late Medieval Europe	Iberian people with a distinct pre-Indo-European language, straddling the Spanish-French border in the Pyrenees.
Battle of Agincourt	High and Late Medieval Europe	1415 battle in which Henry V's outnumbered English longbowmen crushed the French during the Hundred Years' War.
Battle of Britain	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1940 air campaign in which the RAF repelled the Luftwaffe, foiling Hitler's planned invasion of Britain.
Battle of Grunwald	High and Late Medieval Europe	1410 battle in which Poland-Lithuania decisively defeated the Teutonic Knights.
Battle of Koniggratz	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1866 decisive Prussian victory over Austria in the Austro-Prussian War, also called Sadowa.
Battle of Kosovo	High and Late Medieval Europe	1389 battle in which the Ottomans defeated Serbian forces, becoming central to Serbian national mythology.
Battle of Naseby	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1645 decisive Parliamentarian victory over Charles I's forces in the English Civil War.
Battle of Solferino	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1859 bloody battle in the Italian unification wars that inspired the founding of the Red Cross.
Battle of Stalingrad	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1942-1943 turning-point battle in which the Soviets crushed a German army, reversing the war's momentum.
Battle of the Boyne	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1690 battle in which William III defeated the deposed James II in Ireland, cementing Protestant rule.
Battle of the Golden Spurs	High and Late Medieval Europe	1302 battle in which Flemish militia infantry defeated French knightly cavalry.
Battle of the Somme	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1916 battle with catastrophic British casualties on its first day, emblematic of World War I's attritional slaughter.
Battle of Valmy	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1792 battle in which French revolutionary forces halted a Prussian-Austrian invasion, saving the young Republic.
beards	Economy, Society, and Culture	Facial hair whose fashion and taxation, as under Peter the Great's beard tax, tracked shifting cultural norms.
beer	Economy, Society, and Culture	Brewed beverage central to European diet and trade, regulated by laws like Bavaria's Reinheitsgebot.
Belgrade	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Serbian capital repeatedly contested between the Ottomans and Habsburgs, later Yugoslavia's capital.
Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Full name of Mussolini, Fascist dictator who ruled Italy from 1922 until his 1945 execution.
Benjamin Disraeli	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Conservative British prime minister who expanded the empire and passed the Reform Act of 1867.
Beveridge Report	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1942 British report laying the blueprint for the postwar welfare state and National Health Service.
Bletchley Park	Interwar Crisis and World War II	British codebreaking site where Alan Turing and colleagues cracked the German Enigma cipher in World War II.
Bologna	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Italian city home to Europe's oldest university, founded in 1088.
Bonaparte	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Corsican family name of Napoleon, whose members ruled France and several client states of his empire.
Booth	Economy, Society, and Culture
Borgia	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Spanish-Italian noble family producing Pope Alexander VI and his children Cesare and Lucrezia, notorious for intrigue.
Bosnian War	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1992-1995 ethnic conflict following Yugoslavia's breakup, marked by the Srebrenica massacre and Dayton Accords.
Bruges	High and Late Medieval Europe	Flemish trading city, a leading medieval European commercial and cloth-manufacturing center.
Cardinal Richelieu	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Chief minister to Louis XIII who centralized French royal power and steered France into the Thirty Years' War.
Carlist Wars	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	19th-century Spanish civil wars between liberal and traditionalist claimants to the throne.
Carlsbad Decrees	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1819 measures imposing censorship and suppressing nationalist student groups across the German Confederation.
