nuns	Economy, Society, and Culture	Women religious living in convents, central to medieval education, charity, and Catholic spiritual life.
Oaths of Strasbourg	Early Medieval Europe	842 mutual pledges by Charlemagne's grandsons, an early written document in Old French and Old High German.
Offa	Early Medieval Europe	Powerful Anglo-Saxon king of Mercia who built the defensive earthwork Offa's Dyke against the Welsh.
oil	Economy, Society, and Culture
opera houses	Economy, Society, and Culture
Oprichnina	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Ivan the Terrible's private police-state apparatus used to terrorize and purge the Russian nobility.
Orkney Islands	Early Medieval Europe	Scottish archipelago long under Norse rule as a Viking earldom before passing to Scotland in 1472.
Ostrogoths	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Eastern Gothic people who ruled Italy under Theodoric the Great before Byzantine reconquest.
Palaiologos	High and Late Medieval Europe	Last Byzantine imperial dynasty, restoring the empire in 1261 until its fall to the Ottomans in 1453.
Pale of Settlement	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Region of the Russian Empire where Jews were legally permitted permanent residence, a site of pogroms.
Papal States	High and Late Medieval Europe	Territories in central Italy ruled directly by the pope until absorbed by unified Italy in 1870.
Paris Peace Conference	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1919-1920 negotiations producing the Treaty of Versailles and redrawing Europe's postwar map.
Paul I	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Russian tsar, son of Catherine the Great, assassinated in a palace coup after an erratic reign.
Paul VI	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Pope who implemented the Second Vatican Council's reforms and issued the controversial Humanae Vitae.
Peter III	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Short-reigning Russian tsar deposed and killed in a coup that brought his wife Catherine the Great to power.
Phanariots	High and Late Medieval Europe	Wealthy Greek families of Constantinople's Phanar district who served as Ottoman administrators.
Philip Augustus	High and Late Medieval Europe	French king who greatly expanded royal territory, defeating King John's coalition at Bouvines.
Philip the Good	High and Late Medieval Europe	Duke of Burgundy whose wealthy court patronized the arts and founded the Order of the Golden Fleece.
Picts	Early Medieval Europe	Ancient people of northern and eastern Scotland, eventually merging with the Scots to form the Kingdom of Alba.
piracy	Economy, Society, and Culture
Pius	High and Late Medieval Europe
Plataea	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	479 BCE battle in which the combined Greek army decisively defeated the Persians, ending Xerxes I's invasion.
Poles	High and Late Medieval Europe	West Slavic people whose medieval kingdom under the Piasts and Jagiellonians shaped Central Europe.
Polish-Soviet War	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1919-1921 war in which Pilsudski's Poland repelled a Soviet invasion, securing its eastern borders.
Pompeii	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman city buried by Vesuvius's 79 CE eruption, preserved and later excavated.
Pompey the Great	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman general and triumvir who lost to Caesar at Pharsalus and was murdered in Egypt.
Poor Laws	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British legislation governing relief for the poor, reformed in 1834 to establish harsh workhouses.
Pope	High and Late Medieval Europe
porcelain	Economy, Society, and Culture	Fine ceramic imported from China, later imitated by European manufactories like Meissen.
Primary Chronicle	Early Medieval Europe	Medieval East Slavic historical narrative tracing Kievan Rus' origins to the Varangian Rurik.
Prince Klemens Wenzel von Metternich	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Austrian statesman who dominated the Congress of Vienna and championed conservative reaction until ousted in 1848.
Prince of Wales	High and Late Medieval Europe
printing industry	Economy, Society, and Culture	Trade transformed by Gutenberg's movable type, spreading Reformation and Enlightenment ideas across Europe.
Printing Press	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Gutenberg's movable-type invention that revolutionized the spread of texts across Europe.
Procopius	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine historian under Justinian I, author of both official histories and the scandalous Secret History.
Provisional Irish Republican Army	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Paramilitary group waging armed struggle for Irish reunification during the Troubles.
Pskov	Early Medieval Europe	Medieval Russian trading city and republic closely tied to Novgorod before Muscovite annexation.
public executions	Economy, Society, and Culture
Putney Debates	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1647 discussions among Cromwell's New Model Army over suffrage and England's future constitution.
Pyotr Stolypin	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Russian prime minister whose land reforms aimed to create a stable peasant landowning class before his assassination.
Pyrenees	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mountain range dividing Spain and France, home to the Basque people and site of the Roland legend.
Queen Anne	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Last Stuart monarch, under whom England and Scotland formally united into Great Britain in 1707.
Queen Anne I	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Last Stuart monarch, under whom England and Scotland formally united into Great Britain in 1707.
Quia Emptores	High and Late Medieval Europe	1290 English statute restricting subinfeudation, reshaping feudal land tenure.
Quintus Septimius Florens Tertullianus	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Early Christian theologian from Carthage, an influential early Latin church father.
Ragusa	High and Late Medieval Europe	Dalmatian maritime city-state, modern Dubrovnik, that balanced Venetian and Ottoman power through diplomacy.
railways	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Rail transport that revolutionized 19th-century European trade, travel, and military mobilization.
Reinhard Heydrich	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nazi official who chaired the Wannsee Conference planning the Holocaust, assassinated by Czech resistance.
relics	Economy, Society, and Culture	Sacred remains or objects of saints, venerated and traded across medieval Christian Europe.
Republic of Austria	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Modern Austrian state re-established after World War II, declaring permanent neutrality in 1955.
Republic of Bulgaria	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Post-Communist Bulgarian state established after the 1989 fall of Todor Zhivkov's regime.
Republic of Croatia	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Balkan nation that declared independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, triggering war with Serb forces.
Republic of Malta	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Mediterranean island state independent from Britain since 1964, later joining the EU.
Republic of Serbia	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Balkan nation that won autonomy from Ottoman rule in the 19th century, later central to the Yugoslav wars.
Rif	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Moroccan mountain region whose Berber tribes fought a costly war against Spanish and French colonizers.
Riga	High and Late Medieval Europe	Baltic Hanseatic League city founded by German crusaders, later capital of Latvia.
Risorgimento	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	19th-century movement that unified Italy's fragmented states under Victor Emmanuel II.
Robert Falcon Scott	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British naval officer and explorer who died returning from the South Pole, narrowly beaten by Amundsen.
Robert Guiscard	High and Late Medieval Europe	Norman adventurer who conquered southern Italy and fought the Byzantine Empire.
Robin Hood	High and Late Medieval Europe	Legendary English outlaw said to rob the rich to aid the poor during the reign of a wayward king.
royal forests	Economy, Society, and Culture	Woodlands governed by medieval royal forest law, restricting hunting and land use for the crown's benefit.
Russian	Absolutism and the Early Modern State
Rye House Plot	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1683 failed conspiracy to assassinate Charles II and his brother James on their way from Newmarket.
Saint Helena	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Remote South Atlantic island where Napoleon was exiled after Waterloo, dying there in 1821.
Saint Peter	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Apostle traditionally considered the first bishop of Rome, foundation of papal authority.
Saint Petersburg	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Russian capital founded by Peter the Great as a "window to the West" on the Baltic.
Samarkand	High and Late Medieval Europe	Central Asian Silk Road city that became the glittering capital of Timur's Central Asian empire.
samizdat	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Self-published underground literature circulated to evade Soviet censorship.
Sancho	High and Late Medieval Europe
Savoy	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Alpine duchy whose royal house led Italian unification, becoming the Kingdom of Italy's ruling dynasty.
Scania	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Southern Swedish province, formerly Danish, ceded to Sweden after the 1658 Treaty of Roskilde.
Schmalkaldic League	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Alliance of Protestant German princes formed to defend against Charles V's Catholic forces.
scutage	High and Late Medieval Europe	Medieval English tax paid by knights in lieu of military service to the crown.
Sebastien Le Prestre de Vauban	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	French military engineer whose star-shaped fortifications and siege methods defined Louis XIV's wars.
Second Battle of Tannenberg	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1914 World War I battle in which Germany destroyed a Russian army in East Prussia.
Serbians	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	South Slavic people whose medieval kingdom fell to the Ottomans, later leading the drive for Yugoslav unity.
Sevastopol	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Crimean naval port besieged for nearly a year during the Crimean War.
sheep	Economy, Society, and Culture	Livestock central to medieval England's wool trade and later Spanish Mesta pastoral economy.
Sicilian Mafia	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Organized crime network originating in 19th-century Sicily amid weak post-unification state authority.
Singing Revolution	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Late-1980s peaceful Baltic independence movement expressed through mass public singing protests.
