Ivan the Terrible	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	First tsar of Russia who conquered Kazan and Astrakhan but plunged the realm into terror via the Oprichnina.
Lisbon	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Portuguese capital and launch point for Vasco da Gama's voyages, devastated by the catastrophic 1755 earthquake.
Merovingian Dynasty	Early Medieval Europe	First Frankish royal dynasty, founded by Clovis I, ruling Gaul until supplanted by the Carolingians in 751.
Norway	Early Medieval Europe	Scandinavian kingdom, Viking homeland later united with Denmark and Sweden before independence in 1905.
Solidarity	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Polish trade union led by Lech Walesa that challenged Communist rule in the 1980s, later winning power in 1989.
Spain	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Iberian kingdom unified under Ferdinand and Isabella, a Counter-Reformation superpower under the Habsburgs before later decline.
Teutonic Knights	High and Late Medieval Europe	Crusading military order that conquered and Christianized Prussia and the Baltic, defeated by Poland-Lithuania at Grunwald.
West Germany	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Federal Republic of Germany (1949-1990), the US-aligned state that achieved an economic "miracle" before reunification.
Antwerp	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Flemish port city and 16th-century commercial hub, sacked during the Dutch Revolt's "Spanish Fury."
Black Death	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mid-14th-century plague pandemic that killed roughly a third of Europe's population, reshaping its economy and society.
Bohemia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Central European kingdom centered on Prague, home to the Hussite movement and later Habsburg rule after 1526.
Byzantine Empire	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Greek-speaking Eastern Roman Empire ruled from Constantinople, codified by Justinian, that fell to the Ottomans in 1453.
Cathars	High and Late Medieval Europe	Dualist Christian heretical movement in southern France, suppressed by the papally sanctioned Albigensian Crusade.
David Lloyd George	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Liberal British prime minister who led Britain through World War I and negotiated the Treaty of Versailles.
First Crusade	High and Late Medieval Europe	1096-1099 campaign called by Urban II that captured Jerusalem and established Crusader states in the Levant.
Franco-Prussian War	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1870-1871 war in which Prussia defeated France, completing German unification and toppling Napoleon III.
Germany	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Central European nation unified by Bismarck in 1871, later responsible for both World Wars before postwar reunification.
Gregory	High and Late Medieval Europe
Henry III	High and Late Medieval Europe	Likely the English king whose weak reign saw the Second Barons' War and Parliament's rise under Simon de Montfort.
John	High and Late Medieval Europe	Possibly King John of England, who lost Normandy to France and was forced to seal Magna Carta in 1215.
Justinian I	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine emperor who codified Roman law in the Corpus Juris Civilis and reconquered Italy and North Africa via Belisarius.
Milan	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Lombard city-state ruled by the Visconti and Sforza dukes, a major Renaissance power contested by France and Spain.
Naples	High and Late Medieval Europe	Southern Italian kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Angevins, Aragonese, and Spanish Habsburgs.
Napoleon III	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Nephew of Napoleon I who ruled France's Second Empire, modernized Paris, and was captured at Sedan in 1870.
Nicholas I	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Reactionary Russian tsar who crushed the Decembrist revolt and led Russia into the disastrous Crimean War.
Philip II	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Likely Philip II of Spain, Habsburg king who sent the Armada against England and fought the Dutch Revolt.
Pius IX	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Longest-reigning pope, who lost the Papal States to Italian unification and convened the First Vatican Council.
Saxons	Early Medieval Europe	Germanic people who settled Anglo-Saxon England and were conquered and Christianized on the continent by Charlemagne.
Silvio Berlusconi	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Media mogul who served multiple terms as Italian prime minister amid scandal from the 1990s onward.
Time of Troubles	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Early-17th-century Russian succession crisis and foreign invasion following Tsar Feodor I's death, ended by the Romanovs' rise.
War of the Spanish Succession	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1701-1714 war over the vacant Spanish throne, pitting France against a European coalition; ended by the Treaty of Utrecht.
Alexander I	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Russian tsar who defeated Napoleon's invasion of Russia and helped shape the Congress of Vienna settlement.
Alexander II	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Russian tsar who emancipated the serfs in 1861 and was assassinated by revolutionaries in 1881.
Antonio de Oliveira Salazar	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Portuguese dictator whose authoritarian Estado Novo regime lasted from the 1930s until his 1970 death.
Avignon	High and Late Medieval Europe	French city that hosted the papacy from 1309 to 1377 during the "Babylonian Captivity" of the Church.
Charles I	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	English king whose conflict with Parliament sparked the Civil War, ending in his 1649 execution.
Francisco Franco	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nationalist general who won the Spanish Civil War and ruled Spain as dictator until his death in 1975.
Giuseppe Garibaldi	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Italian revolutionary general whose Expedition of the Thousand helped unify Italy under Victor Emmanuel II.
Greek War of Independence	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1821-1830 uprising that won Greek independence from Ottoman rule with British, French, and Russian support.
Kingdom of Hungary	High and Late Medieval Europe	Medieval Central European kingdom founded by Stephen I, later ruled by Ottomans and Habsburgs.
Louis XV	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	French Bourbon king whose long, indecisive reign preceded his grandson Louis XVI and the Revolution.
Mercia	Early Medieval Europe	Anglo-Saxon kingdom of the English Midlands, dominant under King Offa before absorption into Wessex-led England.
Moscow	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Russian capital that rose under Ivan the Terrible, briefly displaced by St. Petersburg, and burned during Napoleon's 1812 invasion.
Otto	Early Medieval Europe
Paul von Hindenburg	Interwar Crisis and World War II	German field marshal and later president who appointed Hitler chancellor in 1933.
Reconquista	High and Late Medieval Europe	Centuries-long Christian reconquest of Muslim Iberia, completed by Ferdinand and Isabella's capture of Granada in 1492.
Ukraine	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Eastern European nation descended from Kievan Rus', independent since 1991 and invaded by Russia in 2014 and 2022.
Willy Brandt	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	West German chancellor who pursued Ostpolitik detente with the East, kneeling at the Warsaw Ghetto memorial.
Albanians	High and Late Medieval Europe	Balkan people traditionally linked to the ancient Illyrians, later resisting Ottoman rule under Skanderbeg.
Aragon	High and Late Medieval Europe	Iberian kingdom whose Mediterranean empire and union with Castile under Ferdinand and Isabella forged modern Spain.
Austria-Hungary	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Dual monarchy formed by the 1867 Ausgleich, uniting Habsburg Austria and Hungary until its 1918 collapse.
Carolingian Dynasty	Early Medieval Europe	Frankish royal line founded by Pepin the Short, reaching its height under Charlemagne before fragmenting after 843.
Clovis I	Early Medieval Europe	First king to unite the Franks, converted to Catholic Christianity, founding the Merovingian dynasty.
Eleanor of Aquitaine	High and Late Medieval Europe	Wealthy duchess who married Louis VII of France then Henry II of England, mother of Richard I and John.
Fourth Crusade	High and Late Medieval Europe	1204 crusade diverted to sack Christian Constantinople, fatally weakening the Byzantine Empire.
Francois Mitterrand	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	French Socialist president (1981-1995) who nationalized industries and championed European integration.
George IV	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British king known for extravagance, who served as Prince Regent for his mentally ill father George III.
Henry VIII	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Tudor king who broke with Rome to annul his marriage, founding the Church of England; married six wives.
Huguenots	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	French Protestants persecuted during the Wars of Religion and after Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes.
Kingdom of Norway	Early Medieval Europe	Scandinavian kingdom, Viking homeland later united with Denmark and Sweden before independence in 1905.
Knights Templar	High and Late Medieval Europe	Crusading military order and early banking network, suppressed and its leader Jacques de Molay burned under Philip IV of France.
Louis Philippe I	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	France's "Citizen King," installed after the 1830 July Revolution and overthrown himself in 1848.
Manchester	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	English industrial city, hub of the cotton textile boom and site of the 1819 Peterloo Massacre.
Nicholas II	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Last Russian tsar, forced to abdicate in 1917 and executed with his family by the Bolsheviks.
Normandy	Early Medieval Europe	Northern French duchy granted to Viking leader Rollo, launching point for William the Conqueror's 1066 invasion of England.
Northern Ireland	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Constituent UK region wracked by sectarian violence during the Troubles, resolved by the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.
Otto the Great	Early Medieval Europe	Saxon king crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 962 after defeating the Magyars at the Battle of Lechfeld.
Philip II of Spain	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Habsburg king who sent the Armada against England, fought the Dutch Revolt, and defended Catholicism across Europe.
Rome	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Italian capital of the ancient Republic and Empire, later the papal seat and unified Italy's capital from 1871.
Scotland	High and Late Medieval Europe	Northern British kingdom that won independence from England under Robert the Bruce before its 1707 union with England.
Treaty of Versailles	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1919 peace treaty that blamed Germany for World War I, imposing reparations and territorial losses.
Vikings	Early Medieval Europe	Scandinavian seafaring raiders and traders who settled Normandy, England, and Kievan Rus' from the 8th to 11th centuries.
witch trials	Economy, Society, and Culture	Early modern prosecutions for witchcraft, peaking in the 16th-17th centuries amid religious upheaval and social anxiety.
Yugoslavia	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Multiethnic Balkan federation held together by Tito, which violently fragmented into successor states in the 1990s.
Albigensian Crusade	High and Late Medieval Europe	Early-13th-century papal crusade against the Cathar heretics of southern France, led by Simon de Montfort.
Austria	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Central European Habsburg heartland, an imperial and Counter-Reformation power that later formed Austria-Hungary.
Battle of Waterloo	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1815 battle in which Wellington and Blucher's allied forces decisively defeated Napoleon, ending his Hundred Days.
Corsica	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Mediterranean island, birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte, ceded by Genoa to France in 1768.
Decembrist revolt	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1825 uprising by liberal Russian army officers against Tsar Nicholas I's accession, crushed and its leaders executed.
Easter Rising	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1916 Irish republican rebellion against British rule in Dublin, whose executed leaders galvanized independence sentiment.
