Hungary	High and Late Medieval Europe	Central European kingdom founded under Stephen I and the Arpads, later ruled by Ottomans, Habsburgs, and the Soviet bloc.
Portugal	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Iberian kingdom that pioneered Atlantic exploration under Henry the Navigator and Vasco da Gama; later Salazar's Estado Novo.
Switzerland	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Alpine confederation of cantons, home to Zwingli's and Calvin's Reformation and long-standing armed political neutrality.
France	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Western European kingdom of the Capetians and Bourbons, dominant under Louis XIV, later transformed by revolution and Napoleon.
Greece	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Balkan nation that won independence from the Ottomans in the 1820s, building on ancient and Byzantine heritage.
Sweden	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Scandinavian kingdom that was a Baltic great power under Gustavus Adolphus and Charles XII before turning to neutrality.
Italy	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Peninsula unified in the Risorgimento under Cavour, Garibaldi, and Victor Emmanuel II after centuries of division.
Poland	High and Late Medieval Europe	Central European kingdom of the Piast and Jagiellonian dynasties, later partitioned by Russia, Prussia, and Austria.
Romania	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Balkan nation formed from Wallachia and Moldavia in the 19th century, later ruled by Ceausescu's Communist dictatorship.
Charlemagne	Early Medieval Europe	Frankish king crowned Holy Roman Emperor by the pope in 800, uniting much of Western Europe under Carolingian rule.
Constantinople	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine capital founded by Constantine, besieged repeatedly before falling to the Ottomans under Mehmed II in 1453.
Florence	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Tuscan city-state ruled by the Medici, cradle of the Italian Renaissance in art, banking, and humanist thought.
Sicily	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mediterranean island kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Hohenstaufens, Angevins, and Aragonese; site of the Sicilian Vespers revolt.
Venice	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Maritime republic ruled by an elected doge, dominant in Mediterranean trade and a major Renaissance art center.
Bulgaria	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Balkan nation that won autonomy from the Ottomans in 1878, later a Communist ally of the Soviet Union.
Ottoman Empire	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Islamic empire founded by Osman I that conquered Constantinople in 1453 and ruled the Balkans until its collapse after World War I.
The Netherlands	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Low Countries state that won independence from Habsburg Spain in the Eighty Years' War, then flourished in its Golden Age.
Catherine the Great	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	German-born Russian empress who expanded the empire, partitioned Poland, and patronized the Enlightenment after deposing her husband Peter III.
Louis XIV	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	"Sun King" of France whose long reign at Versailles epitomized absolutist monarchy; fought the War of the Spanish Succession.
Ireland	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Island whose 19th-century Home Rule movement and 1916 Easter Rising led to independence from Britain in 1922.
Burgundy	High and Late Medieval Europe	Wealthy Valois duchy under dukes like Philip the Good and Charles the Bold, absorbed by France and the Habsburgs.
East Germany	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Soviet-aligned German Democratic Republic, separated from West Germany by the Berlin Wall until 1990 reunification.
Thirty Years' War	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1618-1648 conflict sparked by the Defenestration of Prague, devastating Germany before ending with the Peace of Westphalia.
Kingdom of Sweden	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Baltic great power under Gustavus Adolphus and Charles XII, later reduced by defeat in the Great Northern War.
Oliver Cromwell	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Puritan general who led Parliament to victory in the English Civil War, had Charles I executed, and ruled as Lord Protector.
Prague	High and Late Medieval Europe	Bohemian capital under Charles IV, site of the defenestrations that sparked the Hussite Wars and the Thirty Years' War.
Otto von Bismarck	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Prussian "Iron Chancellor" who unified Germany through three wars and later founded its welfare state.
Peter the Great	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Russian tsar who westernized Russia, founded St. Petersburg, and defeated Sweden in the Great Northern War.
Vienna	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Habsburg capital that survived Ottoman sieges in 1529 and 1683 and hosted the 1815 congress redrawing post-Napoleonic Europe.
Charles V	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain who ruled a vast empire and confronted Martin Luther at the Diet of Worms.
Crimean War	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1853-1856 war in which Britain, France, and the Ottomans defeated Russia; noted for Florence Nightingale.
Denmark	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Scandinavian kingdom long allied with Norway, later losing Schleswig-Holstein to Prussia and Norway to Sweden.
Joseph Stalin	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Soviet dictator who industrialized the USSR through purges and famine, led it through World War II, and began the Cold War.
Kingdom of Spain	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Iberian kingdom unified under Ferdinand and Isabella, a Counter-Reformation superpower under the Habsburgs before later decline.
Paris	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French capital, site of the Bastille's storming, the 1871 Commune, and the 1919 peace conference.
World War I	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1914-1918 war triggered by Franz Ferdinand's assassination, fought in trench stalemate, ending Europe's old empires.
1848	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Year of liberal and nationalist revolutions across France, the German states, Austria, and Italy, mostly crushed by year's end.
Bavaria	High and Late Medieval Europe	Southern German duchy, later kingdom, long ruled by the Wittelsbach dynasty from its capital Munich.
Belgium	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Low Countries kingdom that won independence from the Netherlands in 1830; invaded by Germany in both World Wars.
Iceland	Early Medieval Europe	North Atlantic island settled by Norse Vikings, home to the medieval Althing assembly and the sagas.
Weimar Republic	Interwar Crisis and World War II	German republic (1919-1933) beset by hyperinflation and political extremism, collapsing with Hitler's rise to power.
Albania	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Balkan nation ruled by the isolationist Communist dictator Enver Hoxha for over four decades after World War II.
Alfred the Great	Early Medieval Europe	Anglo-Saxon king of Wessex who repelled Viking invasions and promoted learning, later called "the Great."
Charles	High and Late Medieval Europe
Edward I	High and Late Medieval Europe	English king who conquered Wales, warred with Scotland's Wallace and Bruce, and issued key statutes and expulsions.
Finland	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nordic nation, a Russian grand duchy until 1917 independence, later fought the Soviet Union in the Winter War.
London	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	England's capital since Roman times, devastated by the Great Fire of 1666; seat of Parliament and the monarchy.
Malta	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mediterranean island held by the Knights Hospitaller, who withstood the Ottoman Great Siege of 1565.
Margaret Thatcher	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Conservative British prime minister (1979-1990) who fought the Falklands War, curbed unions, and privatized industry.
Visigoths	Early Medieval Europe	Germanic people who sacked Rome in 410 and founded a kingdom in Iberia later conquered by the Umayyads.
Wales	High and Late Medieval Europe	Celtic principality conquered by Edward I of England after resistance from Llywelyn and later Owain Glyndwr.
Cyprus	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Eastern Mediterranean island divided since Turkey's 1974 invasion following Greek-backed Enosis agitation.
Geneva	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Swiss city that became Calvin's Protestant theocratic base, later home to the League of Nations and Red Cross.
Henry	High and Late Medieval Europe
Hundred Years' War	High and Late Medieval Europe	1337-1453 series of conflicts between England and France over the French throne, featuring Joan of Arc and Agincourt.
Josip Broz Tito	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Communist leader who ruled Yugoslavia independent of Moscow, holding its diverse republics together until his 1980 death.
Kalmar Union	High and Late Medieval Europe	1397-1523 personal union joining Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, ended by Swedish secession under Gustav Vasa.
Kingdom of Belgium	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Formal name of Belgium, created in the 1830 revolution against Dutch rule under King Leopold I.
Labour Party	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	British socialist party founded in 1900, forming governments under Attlee, who created the NHS, and later Wilson and Blair.
Spanish Civil War	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1936-1939 war between Franco's Nationalists and the Republic, a proving ground for German and Italian intervention.
Charles de Gaulle	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Leader of the Free French in World War II who later founded France's Fifth Republic and granted Algeria independence.
Croatia	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Balkan nation that declared independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, triggering war with Serb forces.
Genoa	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Italian maritime republic and trade rival of Venice, birthplace of Christopher Columbus.
Gustavus Adolphus	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Swedish king and "Lion of the North" whose Thirty Years' War intervention revived the Protestant cause before his death at Lutzen.
Napoleon Bonaparte	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Corsican-born general who seized power in France, crowned himself emperor, and conquered much of Europe before defeat at Waterloo.
Cossacks	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Semi-autonomous warrior communities of the Russian and Ukrainian steppe frontier, led by figures like Bohdan Khmelnytsky.
Great Northern War	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1700-1721 war in which Peter the Great's Russia broke Swedish dominance of the Baltic under Charles XII.
Kiev	Early Medieval Europe	Capital of Kievan Rus', the medieval East Slavic state from which Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus trace their origins.
Martin Luther	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	German monk whose Ninety-Five Theses launched the Protestant Reformation; defended his views at the Diet of Worms.
Nicolae Ceausescu	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Romania's Communist dictator, deposed and executed in the violent 1989 revolution that ended his cult of personality.
The Anarchy	High and Late Medieval Europe	1135-1153 English civil war between King Stephen and Empress Matilda over succession to Henry I.
Benito Mussolini	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Fascist dictator who ruled Italy from 1922, allied with Hitler, and was executed by partisans in 1945.
Berlin	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	German capital divided by the Cold War-era Wall from 1961 to 1989, symbol of Germany's postwar partition.
Bulgars	Early Medieval Europe	Turkic-origin people who settled the Balkans and merged with Slavs to found the medieval First Bulgarian Empire.
Charles II	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Likely Charles II of England, the "Merry Monarch" restored to the throne in 1660 after Cromwell's Commonwealth.
Crete	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Mediterranean island of Minoan civilization, later Venetian and Ottoman territory, united with Greece in 1913.
Czechoslovakia	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Central European state formed in 1918, dismembered at Munich in 1938, later a Communist state until its 1993 split.
Elizabeth I	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Tudor queen who restored Protestantism, defeated the Spanish Armada, and presided over England's Elizabethan golden age.
Glorious Revolution	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1688 overthrow of James II by William III and Mary II, cementing Parliamentary supremacy in England.
Hanseatic League	High and Late Medieval Europe	Medieval confederation of North German and Baltic trading cities dominating northern European commerce.
