Gregory of Tours	Early Medieval Europe	Frankish bishop and historian whose History of the Franks is a key source for Merovingian-era Gaul.
Guelphs	High and Late Medieval Europe	Medieval Italian faction supporting the papacy against the pro-imperial Ghibellines.
guillotine	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Execution device adopted during the French Revolution, symbol of the Terror's mass beheadings.
gunpowder	Economy, Society, and Culture	Explosive compound imported via trade with Asia that revolutionized European siege warfare and artillery.
Gunpowder Plot	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1605 failed Catholic conspiracy led by Guy Fawkes to blow up England's Parliament and King James I.
Gunter Guillaume	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	East German spy in Willy Brandt's staff whose exposure forced the West German chancellor's resignation.
Gustav	Absolutism and the Early Modern State
Gustav III	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Swedish king who seized absolute power in a 1772 coup and was later assassinated at a masked ball.
Guy Fawkes	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Catholic conspirator caught guarding explosives in the failed 1605 Gunpowder Plot against Parliament.
Gwynedd	High and Late Medieval Europe	Most powerful medieval Welsh kingdom, whose princes led resistance against English conquest.
Habsburg dynasty	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	European dynasty ruling Austria, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire for centuries, ending with Austria-Hungary's 1918 collapse.
Hadrian	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman emperor who built a wall across northern Britain and consolidated the empire's frontiers.
Hamburg	Interwar Crisis and World War II	German port city and Hanseatic League member, devastated by Allied firebombing in 1943.
Harold Wilson	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Labour prime minister who governed Britain through the 1960s-70s, keeping the country out of Vietnam.
Heinrich Himmler	Interwar Crisis and World War II	SS leader who oversaw the Holocaust and concentration camp system, dying by suicide when captured.
Helmut Kohl	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	West German chancellor who oversaw reunification in 1990 and championed European integration.
helots	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Enslaved serf population of Messenia and Laconia bound to Spartan-owned land, periodically rising in revolt.
Helvetic Republic	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French client state imposed on Switzerland after Napoleon's 1798 invasion, replacing the old confederation.
Henry I of England	High and Late Medieval Europe	Norman king whose death without a male heir triggered the succession crisis known as the Anarchy.
Henry II of France	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	French king killed in a jousting accident, whose death began decades of Wars of Religion under his sons.
Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British foreign secretary and prime minister known for assertive gunboat diplomacy in the mid-19th century.
Henry Morton Stanley	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British-American explorer who searched for Livingstone and later helped Leopold II colonize the Congo.
Heraclius	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine emperor who defeated Sassanid Persia but soon lost the Levant and Egypt to Arab conquest.
Herodotus	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	"Father of History" whose Histories chronicle the Persian Wars and describe Egypt, Persia, and Scythia.
Hitler Youth	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nazi youth organization indoctrinating German boys and girls into party ideology and militarism.
HMS Dreadnought	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Revolutionary 1906 British battleship whose design triggered an Anglo-German naval arms race before World War I.
Holy Roman Emperor	High and Late Medieval Europe
horse racing	Economy, Society, and Culture
hotels	Economy, Society, and Culture
House of Anjou	High and Late Medieval Europe	French comital dynasty whose branches ruled England (as Plantagenets) and later Naples and Hungary.
House of Bonaparte	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Corsican family name of Napoleon, whose members ruled France and several client states of his empire.
House of Gonzaga	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Italian noble family that ruled Mantua as Renaissance patrons of the arts.
House of Hohenzollern	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	German dynasty that ruled Brandenburg-Prussia and later the unified German Empire until 1918.
House of Romanov	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Russian imperial dynasty founded in 1613, ruling until the 1917 Revolution executed the last tsar's family.
Hugh Gaitskell	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	British Labour Party leader of the 1950s who battled the party's left wing over nuclear disarmament.
Hugo Grotius	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Dutch jurist regarded as the father of international law, author of On the Law of War and Peace.
Hungarians	High and Late Medieval Europe	Magyar people who settled the Carpathian Basin and founded the medieval Kingdom of Hungary.
hunting	Economy, Society, and Culture
Hussite Wars	High and Late Medieval Europe	1420s-1430s conflicts pitting followers of executed reformer Jan Hus against Catholic crusading forces.
Hyksos	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Foreign dynasty of likely Semitic origin that ruled Lower Egypt during its Second Intermediate Period.
hyperinflation	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Catastrophic currency collapse in 1920s Weimar Germany, devastating savings and fueling political extremism.
Imperial Russian Navy	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Fleet founded by Peter the Great, later devastated in defeats like Tsushima during the Russo-Japanese War.
Imre Nagy	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Hungarian reformist premier executed after the Soviets crushed the 1956 uprising he led.
Independent Self-Governing Trade Union "Solidarity"	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Formal name of Solidarity, the Polish trade union led by Lech Walesa that challenged Communist rule.
Innocent X	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Pope during the Thirty Years' War's end, who denounced the Peace of Westphalia's religious concessions.
Instrument of Government	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1653 written constitution establishing Oliver Cromwell as Lord Protector of England.
Ioannis Metaxas	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Greek dictator whose "No" to Italy's 1940 ultimatum brought Greece into World War II.
Ion Antonescu	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Romanian military dictator allied with Nazi Germany, executed after the war for war crimes.
Iona	Early Medieval Europe	Scottish island monastery founded by St. Columba, a key center of Celtic Christian missionary activity.
Irish	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe
irredentism	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Nationalist doctrine claiming territory inhabited by one's ethnic kin, driving Italian and Balkan disputes.
Isabella I of Castile	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Castilian queen who united Spain with Ferdinand, funded Columbus, and completed the Reconquista.
Isabella II of Spain	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Spanish queen whose turbulent reign ended in an 1868 revolution and exile.
Isambard Kingdom Brunel	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British engineer renowned for railways, bridges, and steamships during the Industrial Revolution.
Isonzo River	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Site of a dozen brutal World War I battles between Italy and Austria-Hungary.
Istanbul	High and Late Medieval Europe	Former Constantinople, renamed after the Ottoman conquest of 1453 and made the empire's capital.
Istvan Szechenyi	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Hungarian reformist noble called the "Greatest Hungarian," who modernized infrastructure and society.
Italian unification	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	19th-century Risorgimento movement uniting Italy's states under Victor Emmanuel II by 1871.
Jacques Rene Chirac	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	French president who opposed the 2003 Iraq War and formally acknowledged France's Vichy-era complicity.
James Cook	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	British naval explorer who charted the Pacific and mapped Australia and New Zealand's coastlines.
James Ramsay MacDonald	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Britain's first Labour prime minister, forming minority governments in the 1920s.
Jan Zizka	High and Late Medieval Europe	Blind Hussite military commander whose innovative wagon-fort tactics repeatedly defeated crusading armies.
January Uprising	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1863 Polish rebellion against Russian rule, brutally suppressed with mass exile to Siberia.
Jewish ghettos	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Segregated urban districts where Nazi Germany confined Jewish populations before deportation to camps.
Joan	High and Late Medieval Europe
Joanna the Mad	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Castilian queen whose mental instability and confinement let her father and son rule in her name.
Jogaila	High and Late Medieval Europe	Lithuanian grand duke who became King of Poland, founding the Jagiellonian dynasty via marriage.
Johan de Witt	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Dutch Republic statesman lynched by a mob amid the 1672 crisis year during war with France.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	German writer and polymath of the Sturm und Drang and Weimar Classicism, author of Faust.
John Balliol	High and Late Medieval Europe	Scottish king installed by Edward I of England, later forced to abdicate amid the Wars of Scottish Independence.
John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	English general who won decisive victories over France in the War of the Spanish Succession.
John Law	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Scottish financier whose paper-money and colonial trading scheme caused France's Mississippi Bubble collapse.
John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster	High and Late Medieval Europe	Powerful son of Edward III who dominated English politics and fathered the Lancastrian royal line.
John Paul Jones	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Scottish-born naval commander for the American Revolution who later served in the Russian navy.
John Wycliffe	High and Late Medieval Europe	English theologian whose Bible translation and challenge to Church authority inspired the Lollards.
John Zapolya	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Hungarian noble who claimed the crown after Mohacs, ruling with Ottoman backing against Habsburg rivals.
Julian the Apostate	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Emperor who tried to revive traditional paganism against Christianity before dying campaigning against Persia.
July Monarchy	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	French regime of "Citizen King" Louis Philippe (1830-1848), ended by the 1848 revolution.
Kapp Putsch	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1920 failed right-wing coup against the Weimar Republic, defeated by a general strike.
Khanate of Kazan	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Volga khanate capital conquered by Ivan the Terrible in 1552, ending Tatar rule of the middle Volga.
