Sir Walter Raleigh	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Elizabethan courtier, explorer, and colonizer who founded the failed Roanoke colony, later executed by James I.
slaves	Economy, Society, and Culture
soccer	Economy, Society, and Culture
Socialist party	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe
Spencer Perceval	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Only British prime minister ever assassinated, shot in Parliament's lobby in 1812.
spices	Economy, Society, and Culture	Valuable Asian trade goods whose search drove Portuguese and Spanish voyages of exploration.
St. Petersburg	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Russian capital founded by Peter the Great as a "window to the West" on the Baltic.
Star Chamber	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	English royal court known for arbitrary rulings, abolished by Parliament in 1641 amid tensions with Charles I.
State Duma	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Russian legislative assembly created after the 1905 Revolution's constitutional concessions.
Stephen	High and Late Medieval Europe
Stephen Bathory	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Transylvanian noble elected King of Poland, noted for military reforms and wars against Ivan the Terrible's Russia.
Stephen of Blois	High and Late Medieval Europe	English king whose disputed reign against Empress Matilda plunged the country into the civil war called the Anarchy.
storming of the Bastille	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	July 14, 1789 seizure of the Parisian fortress-prison, symbolic beginning of the French Revolution.
sugar	Economy, Society, and Culture	Colonial plantation crop whose Atlantic trade fueled European wealth and the transatlantic slave trade.
sumptuary laws	Economy, Society, and Culture	Regulations restricting extravagant dress and consumption by social class in medieval and early modern Europe.
Swedish Social Democratic Party	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Sweden's dominant 20th-century party, architect of the Nordic welfare state model.
Sylvester II	High and Late Medieval Europe	First French pope, renowned scholar who introduced Arabic numerals and the astrolabe to Western Europe.
Symon Petliura	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Ukrainian nationalist leader during its brief post-World War I independence, later assassinated in exile.
SYRIZA	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Greek left-wing party that governed during the country's severe 2010s debt crisis.
taifa	High and Late Medieval Europe	Petty Muslim successor kingdoms that fragmented Iberia after the Umayyad Caliphate of Cordoba's collapse.
Tamar the Great	High and Late Medieval Europe	Georgian queen who presided over her kingdom's medieval golden age of territorial and cultural expansion.
Tanks	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Armored vehicles first deployed by Britain in World War I, later central to Blitzkrieg warfare.
tapestries	Economy, Society, and Culture	Woven textile artworks, such as the Bayeux Tapestry, depicting historical and mythological scenes.
tennis	Economy, Society, and Culture	Sport whose medieval "real tennis" precursor was popular among European royalty and nobility.
textiles	Economy, Society, and Culture	Woven cloth goods including wool and cotton, central to medieval trade and the Industrial Revolution.
the	Economy, Society, and Culture
The Bastille	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Parisian fortress-prison whose storming on July 14, 1789 symbolically began the French Revolution.
The Glorious Revolution	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1688 overthrow of James II by William III and Mary II, cementing Parliamentary supremacy in England.
the Golden Horde	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mongol khanate that dominated Russia and the steppe, exacting tribute from Rus' princes for over two centuries.
The Hague	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Dutch city hosting the International Court of Justice and war crimes tribunals for Yugoslav conflicts.
The Kingdom of the Netherlands	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Modern Dutch state formed after Napoleon's defeat, losing Belgium to an 1830 revolution.
The League of Nations	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	International body founded after World War I to preserve peace, undermined by its failure to stop aggression.
The Protocols of the Elders of Zion	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Fabricated antisemitic Russian text purporting a Jewish conspiracy, widely used to justify persecution.
The Renaissance	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Cultural rebirth beginning in 14th-century Italy, reviving classical learning and transforming art and thought.
The Sun	Economy, Society, and Culture
The Vendee	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French region whose royalist Catholic peasants rose in a brutal counter-revolutionary revolt during the Terror.
theaters	Economy, Society, and Culture
themes	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine military-administrative provinces, developed to organize defense against Arab and other invasions.
Theobald Wolfe Tone	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Irish revolutionary who led the failed 1798 rebellion seeking an independent, non-sectarian Ireland.
Theodor Herzl	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Austro-Hungarian journalist who founded modern political Zionism after covering the Dreyfus Affair.
Thermidor	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1794 coup that overthrew and executed Robespierre, ending the French Revolution's Terror phase.
Thessalonica	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Major Byzantine port city in Greece, second only to Constantinople in importance.
Third Reich	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Official name for Nazi Germany under Hitler, from 1933 until its 1945 defeat.
Thomas Carlyle	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Scottish essayist and historian whose The French Revolution shaped Victorian understanding of the upheaval.
Thomas Muntzer	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Radical German Reformation preacher who led peasants in the German Peasants' War, executed after defeat.
thralls	Early Medieval Europe	Enslaved people within Viking Age Scandinavian society, the lowest class in the Norse social order.
Tony Judt	Economy, Society, and Culture	British historian whose Postwar offers a sweeping account of Europe since 1945.
tournaments	Economy, Society, and Culture	Medieval chivalric contests of jousting and mock combat among knights, showcasing martial skill and status.
Tower of London	High and Late Medieval Europe	Norman fortress-palace-prison on the Thames, associated with the murder of the Princes in the Tower.
trains	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Rail transport that revolutionized 19th-century European trade, travel, and military mobilization.
Treaty of Campo-Formio	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1797 treaty in which Napoleon ended the War of the First Coalition, partitioning Venice's territory.
Treaty of Kiel	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1814 treaty ceding Norway from Denmark to Sweden following the Napoleonic Wars.
Treaty of Lausanne	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1923 treaty settling Turkey's postwar borders, superseding the harsher Treaty of Sevres.
Treaty of Rome	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1957 treaty establishing the European Economic Community, a foundation of European integration.
Tudor dynasty	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	English royal house from Henry VII through Elizabeth I, spanning the Reformation and Renaissance.
Turin	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Piedmontese capital and first capital of unified Italy, industrial and Savoy dynastic center.
Tver	Early Medieval Europe	Medieval Russian principality and rival of Moscow for leadership among the Rus' before Muscovite dominance.
Tyre	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Phoenician port city famed for purple dye, besieged and captured by Alexander the Great.
U-boats	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	German submarines whose unrestricted warfare campaigns targeted Allied shipping in both World Wars.
Ukrainian	Cold War and Contemporary Europe
Umayyad Caliphate	Early Medieval Europe	Islamic caliphate that conquered most of Iberia before Charles Martel halted its advance at Tours.
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Formal name of the UK following Irish partition and the 1922 independence of the south.
university students	Economy, Society, and Culture
Uppsala	Early Medieval Europe	Ancient Swedish religious and later university center, seat of an archbishopric since the 12th century.
Urban II	High and Late Medieval Europe	Pope who launched the First Crusade with his 1095 call at the Council of Clermont.
USSR	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Communist superpower formed after the Russian Revolution, dissolving in 1991 after decades of Cold War rivalry.
Valencia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mediterranean Spanish kingdom conquered from Muslim rule by El Cid and later the Crown of Aragon.
Vandals	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Germanic people who crossed into North Africa, sacked Rome in 455 CE, and were later destroyed by Belisarius's reconquest.
Velvet Revolution	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1989 peaceful protests that ended Communist rule in Czechoslovakia, bringing Vaclav Havel to power.
Venerable Bede	Early Medieval Europe	Anglo-Saxon monk whose Ecclesiastical History of the English People is a key source for early medieval England.
Vercingetorix	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Gallic chieftain who united tribes against Julius Caesar before his defeat at the siege of Alesia.
Villmergen	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Site of two 17th-18th-century wars between Swiss Catholic and Protestant cantons.
Vinland	Early Medieval Europe	North American coastal region reached by Norse Vikings under Leif Erikson around the year 1000.
Vlad III Dracula	High and Late Medieval Europe	Wallachian prince notorious for impaling enemies, later the inspiration for Bram Stoker's vampire novel.
Vladimir Putin	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Russian president and former KGB officer who has dominated the country's politics since 1999.
Wallachia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Romanian principality ruled by figures like Vlad the Impaler, a Danubian buffer against Ottoman expansion.
Walter Ulbricht	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	East German Communist leader who oversaw the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961.
War in the Vendee	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French region whose royalist Catholic peasants rose in a brutal counter-revolutionary revolt during the Terror.
Wenceslas I	Early Medieval Europe	Bohemian duke and Christian martyr later canonized, celebrated in the carol "Good King Wenceslas."
Wexford	High and Late Medieval Europe	Irish port town, site of a Norman landing and later Cromwell's brutal 1649 siege.
