Bad Ems	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	German spa town, source of the edited "Ems Dispatch" telegram that provoked the Franco-Prussian War.
Baldwin	High and Late Medieval Europe
bandits	Economy, Society, and Culture
Banquet of Chestnuts	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Notorious 1501 Vatican party allegedly hosted by Cesare Borgia, emblematic of Borgia-era papal scandal.
Barbara Wertheim Tuchman	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	American historian whose The Guns of August chronicled World War I's outbreak.
Barons	High and Late Medieval Europe
Basil II	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine emperor called "Bulgar-Slayer" for crushing the First Bulgarian Empire, expanding the empire's power.
Batavian Republic	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French client state established in the Netherlands after a 1795 revolutionary invasion.
Battle of Barnet	High and Late Medieval Europe	1471 Wars of the Roses battle in which Edward IV defeated and killed the Earl of Warwick.
Battle of Berlin	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1945 final Soviet assault on Nazi Germany's capital, ending with Hitler's suicide and Germany's surrender.
Battle of Breitenfeld	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1631 Thirty Years' War battle in which Gustavus Adolphus's Swedish army won a major Protestant victory.
Battle of Covadonga	High and Late Medieval Europe	Legendary early-8th-century battle marking the start of the Christian Reconquista in Iberia.
Battle of Edgehill	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1642 inconclusive first major battle of the English Civil War.
Battle of Fontenoy	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1745 French victory over British-led forces during the War of the Austrian Succession.
Battle of Inkerman	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1854 Crimean War battle fought in heavy fog between Russian and allied British-French forces.
Battle of Klushino	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1610 battle in which Polish forces routed a larger Russian-Swedish army during the Time of Troubles.
Battle of Kulikovo	High and Late Medieval Europe	1380 battle in which Russian forces under Dmitri Donskoi defeated the Golden Horde's army.
Battle of Kursk	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1943 massive tank battle in which the Soviets decisively halted a German offensive.
Battle of Maldon	Early Medieval Europe	991 battle in which Vikings defeated Anglo-Saxon defenders, commemorated in an Old English poem.
Battle of Malplaquet	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1709 costly Pyrrhic allied victory over France during the War of the Spanish Succession.
Battle of Monte Cassino	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Series of brutal 1944 Allied assaults on a fortified monastery hilltop in the Italian campaign.
Battle of Najera	High and Late Medieval Europe	1367 battle in which the Black Prince restored Pedro the Cruel to Castile's throne during a Hundred Years' War side conflict.
Battle of Nicopolis	High and Late Medieval Europe	1396 crusade battle in which the Ottomans crushed a European coalition, ending major anti-Ottoman crusading.
Battle of Nordlingen	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1634 Thirty Years' War battle in which Habsburg forces crushed the Swedish army.
Battle of Poltava	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1709 decisive Russian victory over Charles XII's Sweden, ending Swedish great-power status.
Battle of Prestonpans	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1745 Jacobite victory over government forces early in the Forty-Five rising.
Battle of Ramillies	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1706 Marlborough victory over France during the War of the Spanish Succession.
Battle of Stamford Bridge	Early Medieval Europe	1066 battle in which Harold Godwinson defeated Norwegian invader Harald Hardrada days before Hastings.
Battle of the Dunes	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1658 battle in which French and English Commonwealth forces defeated Spain near Dunkirk.
Battle of Trafalgar	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1805 naval battle in which Nelson's fleet destroyed the combined French-Spanish navy, securing British naval dominance.
Battle of Vimy Ridge	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1917 World War I battle where Canadian forces captured a heavily fortified German ridge, a national milestone.
Battle on the Ice	High and Late Medieval Europe	1242 battle in which Alexander Nevsky's forces defeated the Teutonic Knights on a frozen lake.
Bayeux Tapestry	Early Medieval Europe	Embroidered cloth depicting the Norman Conquest of England, commissioned soon after the 1066 events.
Bede	Early Medieval Europe	Anglo-Saxon monk whose Ecclesiastical History of the English People is a key source for early medieval England.
Berlin airlift	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1948-1949 Western operation flying supplies into blockaded West Berlin, an early major Cold War confrontation.
Black	Economy, Society, and Culture
Black Hand	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Serbian nationalist secret society that armed Gavrilo Princip for the assassination of Franz Ferdinand.
Black Sea	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Sea bordered by Russia and the Ottoman Empire, a frequent zone of imperial rivalry.
Black Wednesday	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1992 crisis when Britain was forced to withdraw the pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.
Blenheim Palace	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Grand English residence given to the Duke of Marlborough for his 1704 victory, birthplace of Churchill.
blood libel	Economy, Society, and Culture	False antisemitic accusation that Jews murdered Christian children for ritual purposes, fueling persecution.
Book of Common Prayer	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Standard Anglican liturgy compiled by Thomas Cranmer during the English Reformation.
Boris III	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Bulgarian king who allied with the Axis but refused to deport Bulgaria's Jews, dying suddenly in 1943.
Bosnia and Herzegovina	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Balkan nation whose 1992-1995 war, including the Srebrenica massacre, followed Yugoslavia's breakup.
bridges	Economy, Society, and Culture
Brighton	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	English seaside resort favored by the Prince Regent, later George IV, who built its Royal Pavilion.
burhs	Early Medieval Europe	Fortified Anglo-Saxon settlements built by Alfred the Great's dynasty to defend against Viking raids.
Callixtus III	High and Late Medieval Europe	Borgia pope who called for crusades against the Ottomans after the fall of Constantinople.
canals	Economy, Society, and Culture	Artificial waterways built to expand trade, notably during Britain's Industrial Revolution.
Canary Islands	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Atlantic archipelago conquered by Castile, serving as a launch point for transatlantic voyages.
Canning	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British foreign secretary and briefly prime minister who supported Latin American and Greek independence.
Cardinal Thomas Wolsey	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Henry VIII's powerful chief minister whose failure to secure the king's annulment led to his downfall.
Carolingians	Early Medieval Europe	Frankish royal dynasty founded by Pepin the Short, reaching its height under Charlemagne.
Catharism	High and Late Medieval Europe	Dualist Christian heretical movement in southern France, suppressed by the Albigensian Crusade.
Catherine	Absolutism and the Early Modern State
Catholic Centre Party	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	German political party representing Catholic interests, targeted by Bismarck's Kulturkampf.
Charles II of England	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	English "Merry Monarch" restored to the throne in 1660 after Cromwell's Commonwealth.
Charles IV	High and Late Medieval Europe	Holy Roman Emperor and King of Bohemia who issued the Golden Bull and made Prague an imperial capital.
Charles the Bald	Early Medieval Europe	Carolingian king who received West Francia at the Treaty of Verdun, later crowned emperor.
Charles VI	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor whose Pragmatic Sanction secured his daughter Maria Theresa's succession.
Charles, Prince of Wales	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Long-serving heir to the British throne, later King Charles III, known for his marriage to Diana.
cheese	Economy, Society, and Culture
Children's Crusade	High and Late Medieval Europe	1212 popular movement of youths said to have marched toward the Holy Land, ending in tragedy or legend.
cholera	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	19th-century epidemic disease whose London outbreak John Snow traced to contaminated water.
Christina	Reformation and the Wars of Religion
Cicero	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman orator, consul, and philosopher who exposed the Catiline conspiracy and was killed in the Second Triumvirate's proscriptions.
Cilicia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Armenian kingdom in Anatolia allied with the Crusader states against Muslim powers.
Clement V	High and Late Medieval Europe	Pope who moved the papacy to Avignon and suppressed the Knights Templar under pressure from Philip IV.
Cluny Abbey	High and Late Medieval Europe	Highly influential Burgundian Benedictine monastery that spearheaded medieval monastic reform.
coffee	Economy, Society, and Culture	Ottoman-origin beverage that spread through European coffeehouses, fostering Enlightenment-era public discourse.
Committee of Public Safety	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French Revolutionary body led by Robespierre that directed the Terror's executions.
Condor Legion	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nazi German air and ground unit that aided Franco in the Spanish Civil War, bombing Guernica.
Constantine XI Dragases Palaiologos	High and Late Medieval Europe	Last Byzantine emperor, who died defending Constantinople against the Ottomans in 1453.
Constantine XI Palaiologos	High and Late Medieval Europe	Last Byzantine emperor, who died defending Constantinople against the Ottomans in 1453.
convents	Economy, Society, and Culture	Communities of nuns that offered women religious life, education, and refuge across medieval and modern Europe.
Corinth	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Wealthy Peloponnesian trade city whose quarrel with Corcyra helped trigger the Peloponnesian War.
Corn Laws	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British tariffs protecting grain producers, repealed by Robert Peel in 1846 amid the Irish Famine.
Cornwall	High and Late Medieval Europe	Southwestern English peninsula with a distinct Celtic heritage and historic tin-mining economy.
Council of Ten	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Secretive Venetian magistracy responsible for state security and surveillance in the republic.
Coup of 18 Brumaire	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1799 coup in which Napoleon overthrew the Directory, becoming First Consul of France.
