cars	Economy, Society, and Culture	Automobiles whose 20th-century mass production reshaped European industry, cities, and everyday life.
Catherine de' Medici	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Florentine-born French queen mother who shaped policy during the Wars of Religion, blamed for the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre.
Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Adaptable French statesman who served through the Revolution, Napoleon, and the Congress of Vienna.
Chernobyl disaster	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1986 nuclear reactor meltdown in Soviet Ukraine, the world's worst nuclear accident, exposing Soviet secrecy.
Christian	Absolutism and the Early Modern State
Cistercians	High and Late Medieval Europe	Reformed Benedictine monastic order founded at Citeaux, known for austere discipline and agricultural innovation.
coal	Economy, Society, and Culture	Fossil fuel that powered the Industrial Revolution and remained central to European heavy industry for centuries.
condottieri	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Mercenary military captains hired by Italian city-states during the Renaissance's frequent wars.
Confederation of the Rhine	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Napoleon's client-state league of German territories, replacing the dissolved Holy Roman Empire.
Danube River	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Major Central European river bordering the Habsburg and Ottoman realms, a frequent military frontier.
Dresden	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Saxon city devastated by controversial Allied firebombing in February 1945.
Duchy of Courland and Semigallia	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Baltic vassal duchy of Poland-Lithuania that briefly held colonies in Africa and the Caribbean.
Edinburgh	High and Late Medieval Europe	Scottish capital built around its historic castle, seat of Scottish monarchy and later Enlightenment learning.
Edward Gibbon	Economy, Society, and Culture	English historian whose Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is a landmark Enlightenment-era history.
Edward IV	High and Late Medieval Europe	Yorkist king who won the throne during the Wars of the Roses, father of the Princes in the Tower.
Eleanor	High and Late Medieval Europe
Emmeline Pankhurst	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Militant leader of the British suffragette movement demanding women's voting rights.
Empress Matilda	High and Late Medieval Europe	Claimant to the English throne whose civil war with King Stephen was known as the Anarchy.
Enver Hoxha	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Albania's isolationist Communist dictator for over four decades after World War II.
Eric Hobsbawm	Economy, Society, and Culture	British Marxist historian known for his sweeping "Age of" series on modern European history.
Expedition of the Thousand	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Garibaldi's 1860 volunteer conquest of Sicily and Naples, a key step in Italian unification.
Falange	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Spanish fascist party founded by Jose Antonio Primo de Rivera, later Franco's sole legal party.
Ferdinand	High and Late Medieval Europe
fish	Economy, Society, and Culture	A staple protein and major trade good, driving disputes like the Anglo-Icelandic Cod Wars.
Fiume	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Adriatic port whose disputed postwar status led to Gabriele d'Annunzio's 1919 occupation of the city.
Flanders	High and Late Medieval Europe	Wealthy medieval Low Countries region famed for cloth manufacturing, later a bloody World War I front.
Flavius Belisarius	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine general under Justinian I who reconquered North Africa and Italy from Vandals and Ostrogoths.
forests	Economy, Society, and Culture	Woodlands governed by medieval royal forest law, restricting hunting and land use for the crown's benefit.
Francis	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration
Francis I of France	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	French Renaissance king and rival of Charles V, patron of Leonardo da Vinci, captured at the Battle of Pavia.
Francois	High and Late Medieval Europe
Francois Guizot	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	French statesman and historian whose conservative ministry fell in the 1848 revolution.
Francois Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterrand	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Full name of Francois Mitterrand, French Socialist president who championed European integration.
Frankfurt am Main	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	German city that hosted the 1848 Frankfurt Parliament's failed attempt at national unification.
French Third Republic	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	French regime from 1870 to 1940, marked by the Dreyfus Affair and eventual collapse to Nazi invasion.
Georges Clemenceau	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	French "Tiger" premier who led the nation through World War I's final years and the Versailles negotiations.
Grand Duchy of Lithuania	High and Late Medieval Europe	Vast medieval state that united with Poland under the Jagiellonians, once Europe's largest by area.
Harold	Early Medieval Europe
Harold Godwinson	Early Medieval Europe	Last Anglo-Saxon king of England, killed at the Battle of Hastings by William the Conqueror in 1066.
Helmuth von Moltke the Elder	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Prussian chief of staff who engineered military victories in the wars of German unification.
Henry VI of England	High and Late Medieval Europe	Weak English king during the Hundred Years' War's end and the Wars of the Roses, deposed and later murdered.
Industrial Revolution	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Transformation of manufacturing and transport beginning in 18th-century Britain, reshaping economy and society.
Investiture Controversy	High and Late Medieval Europe	11th-12th-century conflict between popes and emperors over who could appoint bishops, climaxing at Canossa.
Isabella II	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Spanish queen whose turbulent reign ended in an 1868 revolution and exile.
Jacques Chirac	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	French president who opposed the 2003 Iraq War and formally acknowledged France's Vichy-era complicity.
Jean Froissart	High and Late Medieval Europe	French medieval chronicler whose Chronicles vividly narrate the Hundred Years' War.
Jerusalem	High and Late Medieval Europe	Holy city captured by the First Crusade in 1099 and recaptured by Saladin in 1187.
John Major	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Conservative British prime minister who succeeded Thatcher and signed the Maastricht Treaty.
John Paul II	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Polish pope whose support for Solidarity helped undermine Communist rule in Eastern Europe.
Joseph Chamberlain	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British imperialist statesman who championed colonial expansion and split the Liberal Party over Irish Home Rule.
July Revolution	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1830 uprising that overthrew Charles X of France and installed the "Citizen King" Louis Philippe.
KGB	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Soviet Union's main security and intelligence agency, central to Cold War espionage and internal repression.
Kingdom of Bohemia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Central European kingdom centered on Prague, home to the Hussite movement and later Habsburg rule after 1526.
Kingdom of Greece	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Modern Greek state established after independence from the Ottomans in 1832.
Kingdom of Naples	High and Late Medieval Europe	Southern Italian kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Angevins, Aragonese, and Spanish Habsburgs.
Kingdom of Navarre	High and Late Medieval Europe	Small Pyrenean kingdom straddling Spain and France, eventually absorbed by both Bourbon crowns.
Kingdom of Prussia	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	North German militarized state built by the Hohenzollerns, which spearheaded 19th-century German unification.
Kingdom of Scotland	High and Late Medieval Europe	Northern British kingdom that won independence from England under Robert the Bruce before its 1707 union with England.
Kingdom of Serbia	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Balkan nation that won full independence from Ottoman suzerainty in 1878.
knights	Economy, Society, and Culture	Mounted, armored warriors bound by chivalric codes, central to medieval European warfare and nobility.
Krupp	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	German industrial dynasty whose steel and armaments works fueled Prussian and later Nazi militarization.
kulaks	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Soviet term for relatively prosperous peasants targeted for elimination during Stalin's forced collectivization.
Kulturkampf	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Bismarck's 1870s campaign to curb Catholic Church influence in the newly unified German Empire.
Lady Jane Grey	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	England's "Nine Days' Queen," installed to block Catholic Mary I's accession and later executed.
Lech Walesa	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Polish shipyard electrician who led the Solidarity movement and became post-Communist Poland's president.
Leiden	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Dutch university city that withstood a famous Spanish siege during the Eighty Years' War.
Leopold	Absolutism and the Early Modern State
leprosy	Economy, Society, and Culture	Chronic disease that led medieval Europe to isolate sufferers in dedicated leper hospitals.
Liberal Party	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British political party of Gladstone and Lloyd George, dominant in the 19th century before Labour's rise.
Liverpool	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	English port city that grew wealthy on Atlantic trade, including the slave trade, and later industry.
Ludwig	High and Late Medieval Europe
Lyon	High and Late Medieval Europe	Major French city and early Reformation-era printing center on the Rhone River.
Madrid	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Spanish capital established by Philip II, seat of the Habsburg and later Bourbon monarchy.
Magna Carta Libertatum	High and Late Medieval Europe	Formal name of Magna Carta, the 1215 charter limiting King John's power and asserting baronial rights.
maps	Economy, Society, and Culture	Cartographic works advanced by figures like Mercator, aiding exploration, trade, and state administration.
Marshall Plan	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	US-funded program that rebuilt Western European economies after World War II, countering Soviet influence.
Maximilien Robespierre	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Radical Jacobin leader of the Reign of Terror, guillotined after his own downfall in 1794.
Nantes	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	French city that gave its name to Henry IV's 1598 edict of religious toleration.
Napoleon I Bonaparte	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Corsican-born general who crowned himself French emperor and conquered much of Europe before defeat at Waterloo.
Nazi Party	Interwar Crisis and World War II	German fascist party led by Hitler, which seized totalitarian power in 1933 and perpetrated the Holocaust.
