Edward	High and Late Medieval Europe
Francisco Franco Bahamonde	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Full name of Francisco Franco, the Nationalist general who won the Spanish Civil War and ruled Spain until 1975.
Frederick Barbarossa	High and Late Medieval Europe	Holy Roman Emperor of the Hohenstaufen dynasty who battled the Lombard League and drowned on the Third Crusade.
Frederick the Great	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Prussian king who built Prussia into a great power, seizing Silesia and fighting the Seven Years' War.
House of Habsburg	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	European dynasty ruling Austria, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire for centuries, ending with Austria-Hungary's 1918 collapse.
James	High and Late Medieval Europe
Khazars	Early Medieval Europe	Turkic steppe khaganate north of the Black Sea whose elite reportedly converted to Judaism; later crushed by Kievan Rus'.
Lajos Kossuth	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Hungarian statesman who led the 1848-1849 revolution and war of independence against Habsburg rule.
Leon Trotsky	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Bolshevik leader who organized the Red Army during the Russian Civil War, later exiled and assassinated by Stalin's agent.
Lombards	Early Medieval Europe	Germanic people who invaded Italy in the 6th century, founding a kingdom later conquered by Charlemagne's Franks.
Lord Palmerston	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British foreign secretary and prime minister known for assertive gunboat diplomacy in the mid-19th century.
Louis IX	High and Late Medieval Europe	Later canonized French king who led the Seventh and Eighth Crusades and codified French royal justice.
Maria Theresa	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Habsburg empress who fought the War of the Austrian Succession and Seven Years' War, mother of Marie-Antoinette.
Peterloo massacre	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1819 killing of protesters by cavalry at a Manchester rally for parliamentary reform.
Sarajevo	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Bosnian capital where Gavrilo Princip assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914, triggering World War I.
Theodoric the Great	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Ostrogothic king who ruled Italy from Ravenna after overthrowing Odoacer, blending Roman and Gothic rule.
Toledo	High and Late Medieval Europe	Former Visigothic and Moorish Spanish capital, noted for its medieval school of translation and religious coexistence.
Vichy France	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Collaborationist French state under Marshal Petain after the 1940 defeat, governing the unoccupied south until 1944.
Warsaw	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Polish capital devastated by a 1944 uprising against Nazi occupation, later rebuilt under Communist rule.
William	High and Late Medieval Europe
wool	Economy, Society, and Culture	Medieval England and Flanders's key export commodity, driving trade networks and taxation disputes with France.
Alcuin of York	Early Medieval Europe	English scholar who led Charlemagne's Carolingian Renaissance at the Palace School of Aachen.
Algeria	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	North African French colony whose brutal 1954-1962 war of independence brought down France's Fourth Republic.
Augsburg	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	German city that gave its name to the 1555 religious peace and the 1530 Lutheran confession of faith.
Battle of Lepanto	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	1571 naval battle in which a Holy League fleet decisively defeated the Ottoman navy in the Gulf of Corinth.
Battle of Sedan	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1870 battle in which Prussia captured Napoleon III, deciding the Franco-Prussian War.
Charles XII	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Warrior king of Sweden defeated by Peter the Great's Russia at Poltava during the Great Northern War.
Congress of Vienna	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1814-1815 conference led by Metternich that redrew Europe's map and restored balance of power after Napoleon.
Edward II	High and Late Medieval Europe	English king defeated by Robert the Bruce at Bannockburn, later deposed and murdered amid baronial opposition.
Egypt	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Ancient civilization on the Nile, later a Roman, Byzantine, and Ottoman province before modern independence.
Francis I	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	French Renaissance king and rival of Charles V, patron of Leonardo da Vinci, captured at the Battle of Pavia.
Frederick	High and Late Medieval Europe
George III	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Long-reigning British king who lost the American colonies and suffered recurring bouts of mental illness.
guilds	Economy, Society, and Culture	Medieval associations of craftsmen and merchants that regulated trade, training, and quality in European towns.
Henry V	High and Late Medieval Europe	English king who won the Battle of Agincourt during the Hundred Years' War and was celebrated by Shakespeare.
House of Orange-Nassau	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Dutch royal house descended from William the Silent, leader of the revolt against Habsburg Spain.
James II of England	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Catholic English king deposed in the 1688 Glorious Revolution by William III and Mary II.
Janissaries	High and Late Medieval Europe	Elite Ottoman infantry corps recruited via the devshirme levy of Christian boys, eventually abolished in 1826.
Janos Kadar	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Hungarian Communist leader installed after the Soviets crushed the 1956 uprising, ruling for over three decades.
Jews	Economy, Society, and Culture	European Jewish communities, subject to periodic persecution, pogroms, and the Holocaust across the continent's history.
Joseph II	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Habsburg "Enlightened despot" emperor who abolished serfdom and expanded religious toleration in his reforms.
Junkers	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Prussian landed aristocracy that dominated the military and civil service, backbone of Bismarck's conservative state.
Krakow	High and Late Medieval Europe	Former royal capital of Poland, seat of the Jagiellonian University and Wawel Castle.
Kyiv	Early Medieval Europe	Capital of Kievan Rus', the medieval East Slavic state from which Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus trace their origins.
Leonid Brezhnev	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Soviet leader whose long tenure brought stagnation, the Prague Spring invasion, and detente with the West.
Lollards	High and Late Medieval Europe	English proto-Protestant followers of John Wycliffe who challenged Church authority and translated the Bible.
Magdeburg	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	German city notoriously sacked and largely destroyed by Catholic League forces during the Thirty Years' War.
Magyars	Early Medieval Europe	Nomadic steppe people who settled the Carpathian Basin and founded Hungary after raiding Europe.
monasteries	Economy, Society, and Culture	Christian religious communities that preserved learning and managed land, dissolved in England under Henry VIII.
Netherlands	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Low Countries state that won independence from Habsburg Spain in the Eighty Years' War, then flourished in its Golden Age.
Oxford	Economy, Society, and Culture	English university town, home to one of Europe's oldest universities, dating to the 12th century.
Philip	High and Late Medieval Europe
Piast dynasty	High and Late Medieval Europe	First historic Polish royal dynasty, beginning with Mieszko I, who converted Poland to Christianity.
Republic of Poland	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Modern Polish state restored in 1918 and again in 1989 after decades of Communist rule.
Richard II	High and Late Medieval Europe	English king who suppressed the Peasants' Revolt as a boy but was later deposed by Henry Bolingbroke.
Russia	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Eastern European and Eurasian state built by the Rurikid and Romanov dynasties, modernized under Peter the Great.
Russian Empire	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Tsarist state proclaimed by Peter the Great in 1721, expanding across Eurasia until its 1917 collapse.
Second Crusade	High and Late Medieval Europe	1147-1149 crusade led by Louis VII and Conrad III that failed to recapture Edessa from Muslim forces.
Slobodan Milosevic	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Serbian nationalist leader tried for war crimes over the Yugoslav wars and Kosovo conflict.
szlachta	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Polish-Lithuanian noble class that dominated politics through the elective monarchy and liberum veto.
Third Crusade	High and Late Medieval Europe	1189-1192 crusade led by Richard I, Philip II, and Frederick Barbarossa against Saladin, failing to retake Jerusalem.
tulips	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Ottoman-origin flower whose Dutch speculative bubble in the 1630s is a famed early financial mania.
Veliky Novgorod	Early Medieval Europe	Medieval Russian trading republic and Hanseatic partner, ruled by a veche assembly before Ivan III's conquest.
War of the Austrian Succession	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1740-1748 war sparked by Frederick the Great's seizure of Silesia from Maria Theresa's Habsburg realm.
William Ewart Gladstone	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Liberal British prime minister four times over, champion of Irish Home Rule and free trade.
Winston Churchill	Interwar Crisis and World War II	British prime minister who led the nation through World War II, later coining the term "Iron Curtain."
Winter War	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1939-1940 conflict in which Finland fiercely resisted a Soviet invasion before ceding territory.
Years of Lead	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Period of political violence and terrorism in Italy from the late 1960s to 1980s, involving the Red Brigades.
Zurich	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Swiss city where Huldrych Zwingli launched the Swiss Reformation in the 1520s.
Alexandria	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Egyptian city founded by Alexander the Great, famed for its ancient library and later a major Byzantine see.
Archbishop of Canterbury	High and Late Medieval Europe	Senior cleric of the English Church, an office held by Thomas Becket, murdered after conflict with Henry II.
Augustus the Strong	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Elector of Saxony and King of Poland known for his extravagant Dresden court and numerous illegitimate children.
banks	Economy, Society, and Culture	Financial institutions pioneered by Italian houses like the Medici, later central to European state finance.
Barcelona	High and Late Medieval Europe	Catalan capital and medieval Mediterranean trading power within the Crown of Aragon.
Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa	High and Late Medieval Europe	1212 battle in which a Christian coalition decisively defeated the Almohads, turning the tide of the Reconquista.
Battle of Lutzen	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1632 Thirty Years' War battle where Gustavus Adolphus's Swedish forces won but the king himself was killed.
Carlists	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Spanish traditionalist faction backing a rival royal line, fighting several 19th-century civil wars against liberal Spain.
Carnation Revolution	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1974 largely bloodless military coup that ended Portugal's Estado Novo dictatorship and began democratization.
Catherine of Aragon	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	First wife of Henry VIII of England, whose annulment battle precipitated England's break with Rome.
Charles Martel	Early Medieval Europe	Frankish leader who halted Umayyad expansion at the Battle of Tours in 732, grandfather of Charlemagne.
