Emma of Normandy	Early Medieval Europe	Norman-born queen consort of both Aethelred the Unready and later Cnut the Great of England.
Engelbert Dollfuss	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Austrian chancellor who established an authoritarian corporatist state before his 1934 assassination by Nazis.
England	High and Late Medieval Europe	Kingdom unified by the Anglo-Saxons and conquered by the Normans in 1066, later joined with Scotland and Wales.
Enoch Powell	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	British Conservative politician notorious for his inflammatory 1968 anti-immigration "Rivers of Blood" speech.
European Union	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Political and economic union of European states, evolved from the Coal and Steel Community and Common Market.
falconry	Economy, Society, and Culture	Medieval aristocratic hunting sport using trained birds of prey, a marker of noble status.
False Dmitrys	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Impostors claiming to be Ivan the Terrible's dead son during Russia's Time of Troubles.
Ferdinand Foch	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	French marshal who became Supreme Allied Commander and accepted Germany's 1918 armistice.
Frankfurt Parliament	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1848 assembly that attempted to unify Germany under a liberal constitution but ultimately failed.
French Second Republic	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Short-lived French regime (1848-1852) that elected Louis-Napoleon before his coup founded the Second Empire.
Frisians	Early Medieval Europe	Germanic seafaring people of the North Sea coast, converted to Christianity by missionaries like Boniface.
Fugger	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	German banking dynasty that financed Habsburg emperors and dominated European high finance.
Gdansk	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Polish Baltic port city and birthplace of the Solidarity movement in the 1980s shipyards.
George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Favorite of James I and Charles I whose disastrous foreign policy led to his 1628 assassination.
Georgy Zhukov	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Leading Soviet marshal who defended Moscow and Stalingrad and led the capture of Berlin.
Gestapo	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nazi Germany's secret police, responsible for surveillance and terror enforcing the regime's rule.
Ghibellines	High and Late Medieval Europe	Medieval Italian faction supporting the Holy Roman Emperor against the pro-papal Guelphs.
gin	Economy, Society, and Culture	Distilled spirit whose cheap 18th-century consumption sparked London's "Gin Craze" and reform laws.
Girolamo Savonarola	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Florentine friar who denounced Medici excess, ruled briefly via the "Bonfire of the Vanities," and was burned as a heretic.
Golden Bull	High and Late Medieval Europe	1356 decree of Charles IV formalizing the election procedure for the Holy Roman Emperor.
Goths	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Germanic people split into Visigoths and Ostrogoths, who defeated Rome at Adrianople and later sacked it.
Grand Duchy of Finland	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Autonomous Russian territory from 1809 until Finland's 1917 independence.
Great Fire of London	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1666 blaze that destroyed much of medieval London, prompting Christopher Wren's rebuilding.
Greece and Turkey	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe
Greeks	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Ancient and Byzantine Hellenic people whose modern nation won independence from the Ottomans in the 1820s.
Gyorgy Dozsa	High and Late Medieval Europe	Hungarian mercenary who led a bloody 1514 peasant revolt, crushed and executed by the nobility.
Haakon	Early Medieval Europe
Harald Bluetooth	Early Medieval Europe	Danish king who united Denmark and Christianized it, commemorated by the Jelling stones.
Harrying of the North	Early Medieval Europe	William the Conqueror's brutal 1069-1070 campaign devastating northern England to suppress rebellion.
hats	Economy, Society, and Culture
heavy water	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Key nuclear material whose Norwegian production plant was sabotaged by Allied commandos to hinder Nazi atomic research.
Henry the Fowler	Early Medieval Europe	Saxon duke elected king of Germany, founder of the Ottonian dynasty, father of Otto the Great.
Henry the Navigator	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Portuguese prince who sponsored early Atlantic voyages down the African coast, launching the Age of Exploration.
homosexuality	Economy, Society, and Culture
hospitals	Economy, Society, and Culture	Charitable medical institutions run by medieval religious orders like the Knights Hospitaller.
House of Luxembourg	High and Late Medieval Europe	Medieval dynasty that provided several Holy Roman Emperors, including Charles IV, and Bohemian kings.
House of Valois	High and Late Medieval Europe	French royal dynasty ruling from 1328 to 1589, spanning the Hundred Years' War and Italian Wars.
Hugh Capet	High and Late Medieval Europe	First Capetian king of France, elected in 987, founding a dynasty that ruled in direct line until 1328.
Huldrych Zwingli	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Swiss reformer who launched Zurich's Reformation, dying in battle against Catholic cantons.
India	Cold War and Contemporary Europe
Innocent	High and Late Medieval Europe
Innocent III	High and Late Medieval Europe	Powerful medieval pope who called the Fourth Crusade and the Albigensian Crusade, asserting papal supremacy.
Isaurian Dynasty	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine imperial dynasty that instituted Iconoclasm, beginning with Leo III.
Isidore of Seville	Early Medieval Europe	Visigothic Spanish bishop whose Etymologiae encyclopedia preserved classical knowledge into the Middle Ages.
Jacobite risings	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	18th-century rebellions seeking to restore the exiled Stuart line to the British throne.
James I	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	First Stuart king of England, also James VI of Scotland, who commissioned the King James Bible.
James I of England	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	First Stuart king of England, also James VI of Scotland, who commissioned the King James Bible.
James II	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Catholic English king deposed in the 1688 Glorious Revolution by William III and Mary II.
Janos Hunyadi	High and Late Medieval Europe	Hungarian general who defended Christian Europe against Ottoman advances, notably at Belgrade in 1456.
Japan	Interwar Crisis and World War II
Jesuit Order	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Catholic religious order founded by Ignatius of Loyola, central to the Counter-Reformation and global missions.
John Cabot	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Italian explorer sailing for England who reached North America in 1497.
John Dee	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Elizabethan mathematician, astrologer, and advisor who blended science with occult study.
John Foxe	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	English author of the Book of Martyrs, chronicling Protestants persecuted under Mary I.
John Lambert	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Parliamentarian general during the English Civil War who helped topple the Rump Parliament.
Joseph Bonaparte	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Napoleon's elder brother, installed as king of Naples and then Spain during the Napoleonic Wars.
Joseph Goebbels	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Nazi propaganda minister who orchestrated the regime's messaging and died by suicide with Hitler.
Joseph Priestley	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	English Enlightenment scientist and dissenting minister who discovered oxygen and supported the French Revolution.
Jules Ferry	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	French statesman who established free secular public education and expanded colonial empire.
Justinian the Great	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine emperor who codified Roman law and reconquered Italy and North Africa via Belisarius.
Kaiser Wilhelm II	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Last German emperor, whose naval buildup and diplomacy helped precipitate World War I; abdicated in 1918.
Karelia	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Border region ceded by Finland to the Soviet Union after the Winter War and Continuation War.
Katyn Forest massacre	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1940 Soviet execution of thousands of Polish officers, long falsely blamed on the Nazis.
Kazakhstan	Cold War and Contemporary Europe
Kent	Early Medieval Europe	One of the earliest Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, first to receive Christian missionaries under Augustine of Canterbury.
Kingdom of Aragon	High and Late Medieval Europe	Iberian kingdom whose Mediterranean empire and union with Castile under Ferdinand and Isabella forged modern Spain.
Kingdom of Romania	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Balkan nation formed from Wallachia and Moldavia in the 19th century under a Hohenzollern king.
Kingdom of Sicily	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mediterranean island kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Hohenstaufens, Angevins, and Aragonese.
Kosovo	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Balkan territory whose 1998-99 war and later independence from Serbia followed the Yugoslav wars.
La Rochelle	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	French Huguenot stronghold besieged and starved into surrender by Cardinal Richelieu in 1628.
Lambert Simnel	High and Late Medieval Europe	Boy pretender crowned "Edward VI" by Yorkist rebels against Henry VII, later pardoned to work in the royal kitchen.
land	Economy, Society, and Culture
Latvia	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Baltic nation independent between the World Wars, annexed by the Soviet Union, independent again since 1991.
Lazar Kaganovich	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Loyal Stalinist enforcer who oversaw brutal collectivization and Moscow's subway construction.
Leo III	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine emperor who repelled an Arab siege of Constantinople and launched Iconoclasm.
Leo XIII	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Pope whose Rerum Novarum encyclical addressed industrial-era labor and social justice.
Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Soviet leader whose long tenure brought stagnation, the Prague Spring invasion, and detente with the West.
Leopold I	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor who repelled the Ottoman siege of Vienna in 1683.
Livonia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Baltic region conquered and Christianized by the Livonian and Teutonic Knights, later contested by regional powers.
Livonian War	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1558-1583 war in which Ivan the Terrible's Russia fought Poland-Lithuania and Sweden for Baltic control.
