Charles the Bold	High and Late Medieval Europe	Last Valois Duke of Burgundy, whose ambitions to build a middle kingdom ended with his death at Nancy in 1477.
Chartism	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British working-class movement of the 1830s-40s demanding suffrage reform via the People's Charter.
Cordoba	High and Late Medieval Europe	Andalusian city, capital of the Umayyad Caliphate of Cordoba, famed for its Great Mosque and religious tolerance.
Daniel O'Connell	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Irish "Liberator" who campaigned peacefully for Catholic emancipation and repeal of the Union with Britain.
Edward III	High and Late Medieval Europe	English king who claimed the French throne, starting the Hundred Years' War, and won at Crecy.
Frederick II	High and Late Medieval Europe	Likely Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor and "Stupor Mundi," a Sicilian-based ruler who clashed repeatedly with the papacy.
Galileo Galilei	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Italian astronomer whose telescopic observations supporting Copernican heliocentrism led to his trial by the Inquisition.
Golden Horde	High and Late Medieval Europe	Mongol khanate that dominated Russia and the steppe, exacting tribute from Rus' princes for over two centuries.
Harald Hardrada	Early Medieval Europe	Norwegian king killed invading England at Stamford Bridge in 1066, days before the Norman Conquest.
Henry IV	High and Late Medieval Europe	Possibly the Holy Roman Emperor who stood barefoot at Canossa during the Investiture Controversy with Pope Gregory VII.
Henry VI	High and Late Medieval Europe	Weak English king during the Hundred Years' War's end and the Wars of the Roses, deposed and later murdered.
iconoclasm	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine religious controversy over the destruction of religious images, spanning the 8th and 9th centuries.
Isabella	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Possibly Isabella I of Castile, who united Spain with Ferdinand, funded Columbus, and completed the Reconquista.
Ivan	Absolutism and the Early Modern State
Johannes Gutenberg	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	German printer whose movable-type press revolutionized the spread of texts, first mass-producing the Gutenberg Bible.
John Calvin	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	French Protestant reformer whose theology of predestination shaped Geneva's theocracy and Reformed Christianity.
Julius II	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Warrior pope who commissioned Michelangelo's Sistine ceiling and Raphael's Vatican frescoes while waging war for papal lands.
Kingdom of Denmark	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Scandinavian kingdom long allied with Norway, later losing Schleswig-Holstein to Prussia and Norway to Sweden.
Kingdom of the Netherlands	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Modern Dutch state formed after Napoleon's defeat, losing Belgium to an 1830 revolution.
Klemens von Metternich	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Austrian statesman who dominated the Congress of Vienna and championed conservative reaction until ousted in 1848.
Knights Hospitaller	High and Late Medieval Europe	Crusading military and charitable order that later held Rhodes and then Malta against Ottoman sieges.
Leo	High and Late Medieval Europe
Louis XI	High and Late Medieval Europe	French "Spider King" who consolidated royal power and defeated Charles the Bold of Burgundy.
Louis XVI	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French Bourbon king executed by guillotine during the Revolution after his flight to Varennes failed.
Lubeck	High and Late Medieval Europe	Leading city of the Hanseatic League, dominating medieval Baltic and North Sea trade.
Mary, Queen of Scots	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Catholic queen of Scotland executed by her cousin Elizabeth I after implication in plots against her.
Munich	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Bavarian city, site of Hitler's failed 1923 Beer Hall Putsch and the 1938 appeasement agreement over Czechoslovakia.
Mustafa Kemal Ataturk	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Ottoman military hero of Gallipoli who founded and modernized the secular Republic of Turkey.
Nuremberg	Interwar Crisis and World War II	German city that hosted Nazi Party rallies and later the postwar trials of Nazi leaders.
Orleans	High and Late Medieval Europe	French city whose 1429 siege was lifted by Joan of Arc, turning the tide of the Hundred Years' War.
Owain Glyndwr	High and Late Medieval Europe	Welsh nobleman who led a major early-15th-century revolt against English rule, briefly ruling an independent Wales.
Peninsular War	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1808-1814 conflict in Spain and Portugal where guerrilla and British forces under Wellington bled Napoleon's empire.
Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Vast elective union of Poland and Lithuania governed by the nobility, eventually partitioned out of existence by 1795.
Popular Front	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Left-wing coalition governments in 1930s France and Spain uniting Socialists and Communists against fascism.
Prague Spring	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1968 liberalizing reforms in Czechoslovakia under Alexander Dubcek, crushed by a Warsaw Pact invasion.
red	Economy, Society, and Culture
Robert the Bruce	High and Late Medieval Europe	Scottish king who won independence from England at the Battle of Bannockburn in 1314.
salons	Economy, Society, and Culture	18th-century gatherings hosted by educated women that fostered Enlightenment intellectual exchange in Paris and elsewhere.
Sinn Fein	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Irish republican party founded in the early 20th century, associated with the independence movement and later the IRA.
Spanish Inquisition	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Church-state tribunal founded by Ferdinand and Isabella to enforce Catholic orthodoxy, targeting conversos and Moriscos.
Suleiman the Magnificent	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Ottoman sultan at the empire's peak, who besieged Vienna and captured Belgrade and Rhodes.
Vidkun Quisling	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Norwegian fascist whose name became synonymous with treason after collaborating with Nazi occupation.
William the Silent	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Founder of Dutch independence who led the revolt against Habsburg Spain before his assassination in 1584.
witches	Economy, Society, and Culture	Accused practitioners of sorcery targeted in early modern European witch trials amid religious and social upheaval.
1930s	Interwar Crisis and World War II
Aachen	Early Medieval Europe	Charlemagne's favored capital, site of his palace chapel and later the coronation city of German kings.
Aldo Moro	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Italian prime minister kidnapped and murdered by the Red Brigades in 1978.
Alfonso	High and Late Medieval Europe
Amsterdam	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Dutch trading capital that flourished during the 17th-century Golden Age, home to the first stock exchange.
Anabaptists	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Radical Reformation movement rejecting infant baptism, notorious for the violent Munster Rebellion of the 1530s.
Anschluss	Interwar Crisis and World War II	1938 annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany, welcomed by many Austrians and unopposed by other powers.
Arpad dynasty	High and Late Medieval Europe	Founding royal dynasty of Hungary, beginning with the conquest under Arpad and ending with Andrew III in 1301.
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	British general who defeated Napoleon at Waterloo after leading the Peninsular War campaign.
Baltic Sea	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Northern European sea contested by Sweden, Denmark, and Russia, especially during the Great Northern War.
banking	Economy, Society, and Culture	Financial industry pioneered by Italian houses like the Medici, later central to European state and commercial finance.
Bartolome De Las Casas	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Spanish friar and chronicler of the Americas whose writings denounced colonial abuses against indigenous peoples.
Battle of Bouvines	High and Late Medieval Europe	1214 battle in which Philip II of France defeated a coalition including King John of England and the Holy Roman Emperor.
Battle of Hastings	Early Medieval Europe	1066 battle in which William the Conqueror defeated Harold Godwinson, beginning Norman rule of England.
Battle of Jutland	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1916 largest naval battle of World War I, an inconclusive clash between the British and German fleets.
Battle of Leipzig	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1813 "Battle of the Nations," in which allied forces decisively defeated Napoleon in Germany.
Battle of Mohacs	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	1526 battle in which the Ottomans crushed Hungary, killing its king and opening the way to Ottoman dominance.
Battle of Poitiers	High and Late Medieval Europe	1356 Hundred Years' War battle in which the Black Prince captured the French king John II.
Bedchamber crisis	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1839 British political dispute over Queen Victoria's ladies-in-waiting that stalled a change of government.
Bela Kun	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Communist leader of Hungary's short-lived 1919 Soviet Republic, crushed within months.
boyars	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Highest-ranking Russian and Slavic feudal nobility, whose power was curtailed by Ivan the Terrible and Peter the Great.
Calais	High and Late Medieval Europe	French port city held by England for two centuries after Edward III's siege, lost under Mary I.
Castile	High and Late Medieval Europe	Central Iberian kingdom whose union with Aragon under Ferdinand and Isabella forged modern Spain.
Charles Stewart Parnell	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Irish nationalist leader who championed Home Rule until scandal over his affair ended his career.
Charles X	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Reactionary French Bourbon king overthrown in the 1830 July Revolution.
Christopher Columbus	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Genoese explorer whose 1492 Spanish-sponsored voyage reached the Americas, opening the Columbian Exchange.
Diocletian	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman emperor who ended the Crisis of the Third Century via the Tetrarchy and persecuted Christians.
Domesday Book	Early Medieval Europe	Comprehensive land survey commissioned by William the Conqueror in 1086 to assess England's wealth and taxation.
Dublin	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Irish capital, site of the 1916 Easter Rising against British rule.
Edward VI	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Boy king of England, Henry VIII's son, whose short reign pushed the Church of England toward Protestantism.
Estado Novo	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Authoritarian corporatist regime ruling Portugal under Salazar from the 1930s until the 1974 Carnation Revolution.
Ferdinand II	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Likely the Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor whose Counter-Reformation zeal helped ignite the Thirty Years' War.
Fernand Braudel	Economy, Society, and Culture	French historian of the Annales school, noted for The Mediterranean and his emphasis on long-term historical structures.
Florence Nightingale	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	British nursing pioneer who reformed battlefield medical care during the Crimean War.
Galicia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Historic region split between Spain's Christian kingdom and, in Eastern Europe, Poland and later Austria-Hungary.
Georgia	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Caucasian kingdom converted to Christianity in late antiquity, later absorbed into the Russian and then Soviet empire.
