Crimean Peninsula	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Black Sea peninsula transferred to Ukraine in 1954, later annexed by Russia in 2014.
Crusades	High and Late Medieval Europe	Series of religious wars from 1095 to 1291 aimed at capturing and holding Jerusalem for Christendom.
Cuba	Cold War and Contemporary Europe
Cyrillic	Early Medieval Europe	Alphabet developed from Greek script for Slavic languages, attributed to followers of Saints Cyril and Methodius.
dancing	Economy, Society, and Culture
Dandolo	High and Late Medieval Europe	Venetian doge family, most notably Enrico Dandolo, who directed the Fourth Crusade's sack of Constantinople.
Danes	Early Medieval Europe	Scandinavian people whose Viking raids and Danelaw settlement shaped early medieval England.
Danzig	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Free City whose disputed status between Poland and Germany contributed to the outbreak of World War II.
Desiderius Erasmus	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Dutch Christian humanist scholar whose satirical and reformist writings preceded but did not join the Reformation.
dissolution of the monasteries	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Henry VIII's 1536-1541 seizure and closure of England's monastic institutions and wealth.
do-nothing kings	Early Medieval Europe	Weak later Merovingian kings whose power was overshadowed by their Carolingian mayors of the palace.
Doge of Venice	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Elected head of state of the Venetian Republic, holding largely ceremonial but prestigious authority.
Duchy of Savoy	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Alpine duchy whose royal house led Italian unification, becoming the Kingdom of Italy's ruling dynasty.
Duchy of Saxony	High and Late Medieval Europe	German duchy central to Ottonian power, later fragmenting into electorates including Saxe-Wittenberg.
Duke of Alba	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Spanish general whose brutal repression as governor of the Netherlands helped ignite the Dutch Revolt.
Duke of Marlborough	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	English general John Churchill who won decisive victories over France in the War of the Spanish Succession.
Duke of Medina-Sidonia	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Spanish nobleman who commanded the ill-fated Armada against England in 1588.
Dutch Republic	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Low Countries state that won independence from Habsburg Spain in the Eighty Years' War, then flourished in its Golden Age.
Eamon de Valera	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Irish revolutionary and statesman who survived the Easter Rising to dominate 20th-century Irish politics.
Edict of Fontainebleau	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1685 decree by Louis XIV revoking the Edict of Nantes, outlawing Protestantism in France.
Edict of Restitution	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1629 Habsburg decree reclaiming Protestant-secularized Church lands, intensifying the Thirty Years' War.
Edmund Burke	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Irish-British statesman and philosopher whose critique of the French Revolution founded modern conservatism.
Edouard Daladier	Interwar Crisis and World War II	French premier who signed the Munich Agreement appeasing Hitler over Czechoslovakia.
Edward "Ted" Heath	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Conservative British prime minister who led Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973.
Edward Coke	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	English jurist who championed common law supremacy over royal prerogative under James I and Charles I.
El Cid	High and Late Medieval Europe	Castilian nobleman and mercenary who fought both for and against Muslim rulers during the Reconquista.
Elizabeth	Reformation and the Wars of Religion
Elizabeth I of England	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Tudor queen who restored Protestantism, defeated the Spanish Armada, and presided over England's Elizabethan golden age.
Emperor Heraclius	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Byzantine emperor who defeated Sassanid Persia but soon lost the Levant and Egypt to Arab conquest.
Empress Elizabeth	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Russian empress, daughter of Peter the Great, who fought Prussia in the Seven Years' War.
Enabling Act of 1933	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Law granting Hitler dictatorial powers after the Reichstag fire, ending German parliamentary democracy.
Enosis	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Greek Cypriot movement for union with Greece, contributing to Cyprus's ethnic conflict and 1974 division.
Ethiopia	Interwar Crisis and World War II	African nation invaded by Mussolini's Italy in 1935, exposing the League of Nations' weakness.
Eugene of Savoy	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Habsburg general who defeated the Ottomans at Zenta and the French in the War of the Spanish Succession.
European Coal and Steel Community	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1951 organization pooling French and German heavy industry, the founding step toward European integration.
Falklands War	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1982 conflict in which Britain under Thatcher retook the South Atlantic islands from Argentina.
fascism	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Authoritarian ultranationalist ideology pioneered by Mussolini and adopted by Hitler and other interwar regimes.
Feast of the Pheasant	High and Late Medieval Europe	1454 lavish Burgundian banquet where nobles vowed a crusade against the Ottomans after Constantinople's fall.
February	World War I and Revolutionary Europe
fencing	Economy, Society, and Culture
Ferdinand Magellan	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Portuguese explorer whose expedition achieved the first circumnavigation of the globe, though he died en route.
Ferrara	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Italian Renaissance city-state ruled by the Este family, a noted center of art and learning.
Fifth Crusade	High and Late Medieval Europe	1217-1221 crusade that attacked Egypt but failed to trade it for Jerusalem's return.
First Council of Nicaea	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	325 CE church council convened by Constantine that produced the Nicene Creed against Arianism.
Franco-Dutch War	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1672-1678 war in which Louis XIV's France attacked the Dutch Republic, opening the dikes to survive.
Francois Ravaillac	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Catholic fanatic who assassinated Henry IV of France in 1610.
Franjo Tudjman	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Croatian nationalist leader who led the country to independence and through war with Serb forces.
Frankfurt	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	German city that hosted the 1848 Frankfurt Parliament's failed attempt at national unification.
Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor	High and Late Medieval Europe	Sicilian-based emperor and "Stupor Mundi" who clashed repeatedly with the papacy and led the Sixth Crusade.
Free French Forces	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Resistance movement led by Charles de Gaulle continuing France's fight after the 1940 defeat.
French Resistance	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Underground movement opposing Nazi occupation and the Vichy regime through sabotage and intelligence.
French Revolution	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	1789-1799 upheaval that overthrew the Bourbon monarchy, executed Louis XVI, and radicalized into the Terror.
Friedrich Ebert	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Social Democratic first president of the Weimar Republic, who suppressed leftist uprisings after World War I.
fueros	High and Late Medieval Europe	Traditional regional charters of rights and privileges in medieval Spanish kingdoms, notably the Basque Country.
Furstenbund	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	1785 league of German princes organized by Prussia to check Habsburg expansion.
Gabriele d'Annunzio	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Italian poet-soldier who seized Fiume in 1919, a precursor to fascist theatrics and irredentism.
Gaius Julius Caesar	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman general and dictator who conquered Gaul, crossed the Rubicon, and was assassinated on the Ides of March.
Gaius Marius	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman general who reformed the legions to accept landless citizens and fought Sulla in Rome's first civil war.
Gaspar de Guzman, Count-Duke of Olivares	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Chief minister to Philip IV of Spain who tried and failed to reverse Spain's imperial decline.
Gastein Convention	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1865 agreement temporarily dividing administration of Schleswig-Holstein between Prussia and Austria.
George I	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	First Hanoverian king of Great Britain, whose limited English fluency strengthened parliamentary government.
George II	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Hanoverian king who personally led troops at Dettingen, the last British monarch to do so in battle.
Georges Pompidou	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	French president who succeeded de Gaulle and modernized the nation's economy and culture in the 1970s.
Gerardus Mercator	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Flemish cartographer whose 1569 map projection remains the standard for world maps.
German	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe
German reunification	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1990 merger of East and West Germany following the fall of the Berlin Wall.
German university students	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Nationalist fraternities whose agitation prompted the repressive Carlsbad Decrees of 1819.
Germans	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe
ghettos	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Segregated urban districts where Nazi Germany confined Jewish populations before deportation to camps.
Giacomo Matteotti	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Italian socialist politician murdered by Fascists in 1924 after denouncing Mussolini's regime.
Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French aristocrat and hero of the American Revolution who also played a moderating role in the French Revolution.
glasnost	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Gorbachev's policy of political openness that accelerated the Soviet Union's late-1980s liberalization.
Goa	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Indian coastal territory seized by Portugal in 1510, a key Estado da India colonial hub.
Gonzaga	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Italian noble family that ruled Mantua as Renaissance patrons of the arts.
Good Friday Agreement	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1998 accord that largely ended the Troubles in Northern Ireland through power-sharing arrangements.
Gracchus Babeuf	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	French radical whose "Conspiracy of Equals" during the Directory sought a proto-communist uprising.
Granada	High and Late Medieval Europe	Last Muslim emirate in Iberia, conquered by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492, completing the Reconquista.
Greek Civil War	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	1946-1949 conflict between Communists and the government, an early Cold War proxy struggle.
Greek fire	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Incendiary naval weapon used by the Byzantines to devastating effect against enemy fleets.
Gregory I	Early Medieval Europe	Pope who sent missionaries to convert Anglo-Saxon England and strengthened papal authority in the West.
