castles	Economy, Society, and Culture	Fortified medieval strongholds built by nobility, evolving from timber motte-and-bailey to stone concentric designs.
Catalonia	High and Late Medieval Europe	Northeastern Iberian region within the Crown of Aragon, with a modern separatist movement seeking independence from Spain.
Chamberlain	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Likely Neville Chamberlain, British prime minister whose appeasement policy at Munich failed to prevent World War II.
Charles VIII	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	French king whose 1494 invasion of Italy launched the decades-long Italian Wars.
Chechnya	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	North Caucasus region whose bids for independence from Russia sparked two brutal post-Soviet wars.
Chetniks	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Serbian royalist resistance movement in occupied Yugoslavia during World War II, rivals of Tito's Communist Partisans.
China	Cold War and Contemporary Europe
Christian X	Interwar Crisis and World War II	Danish king who became a symbol of quiet resistance during the Nazi occupation of Denmark.
Clement Attlee	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Labour prime minister who defeated Churchill in 1945 and founded Britain's National Health Service and welfare state.
coal mining	Economy, Society, and Culture	Extractive industry powering the Industrial Revolution, later central to 20th-century labor struggles like the UK miners' strikes.
Cologne	High and Late Medieval Europe	German Rhineland city and archbishopric, home to a great Gothic cathedral housing relics of the Magi.
Constantine	Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium	Roman emperor who legalized Christianity, won at the Milvian Bridge, and founded Constantinople as his new capital.
Copenhagen	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Danish capital, bombarded by the British navy in 1807 during the Napoleonic Wars.
Crimean Khanate	High and Late Medieval Europe	Tatar successor state to the Golden Horde on the Black Sea, an Ottoman vassal until Russian annexation in 1783.
Edict of Nantes	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1598 decree by Henry IV granting Huguenots religious toleration, later revoked by Louis XIV in 1685.
Edward the Black Prince	High and Late Medieval Europe	English prince who won major Hundred Years' War victories at Crecy and Poitiers but died before inheriting the throne.
enclosure	Economy, Society, and Culture	Process of fencing off common land into private holdings, transforming English agriculture from the medieval period onward.
English Civil War	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1642-1651 conflict between Parliament and Charles I, resulting in the king's execution and Cromwell's Commonwealth.
Estonia	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Baltic nation independent between the World Wars, annexed by the Soviet Union, and independent again since 1991.
ETA	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Basque separatist militant organization that waged a decades-long violent campaign for independence from Spain.
Farnese Family	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Italian noble house that produced Pope Paul III and ruled the Duchy of Parma.
feudalism	Economy, Society, and Culture	Medieval social system of land-holding in exchange for military service, binding lords, vassals, and peasants.
Franks	Early Medieval Europe	Germanic people who conquered Gaul under Clovis and built the Carolingian Empire under Charlemagne.
Franz Ferdinand	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Austro-Hungarian archduke whose 1914 assassination in Sarajevo triggered World War I.
Franz Joseph I	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Long-reigning Austro-Hungarian emperor who ruled through the 1867 Ausgleich until his death in 1916.
Frederick William	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Likely the "Great Elector" of Brandenburg who rebuilt Prussia after the Thirty Years' War.
Gallipoli campaign	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	1915-1916 failed Allied campaign against the Ottomans, costly for Britain, France, Australia, and New Zealand.
Gibraltar	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	British-held peninsula at Spain's tip, captured during the War of the Spanish Succession and long disputed since.
Glasgow	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Scottish industrial city and major shipbuilding center during the Industrial Revolution.
Great Heathen Army	Early Medieval Europe	Coalition of Viking forces that invaded Anglo-Saxon England in 865, conquering all kingdoms but Alfred's Wessex.
Greek independence	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	1821-1830 struggle in which Greece won freedom from Ottoman rule with European support.
Greenland	Early Medieval Europe	Arctic island settled by Norse Vikings under Erik the Red, later a Danish territory.
Harold Macmillan	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	British Conservative prime minister of the late 1950s-60s who declared the "Wind of Change" in decolonizing Africa.
Henry Ireton	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Parliamentarian general and Cromwell's son-in-law, a key figure in the Putney Debates and Charles I's trial.
Henry IV of France	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	First Bourbon king who ended the Wars of Religion with the Edict of Nantes after converting to Catholicism.
House of Aviz	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Portuguese royal dynasty that presided over the Age of Exploration under Henry the Navigator.
House of Medici	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Florentine banking dynasty that ruled Tuscany and produced several popes, patronizing Renaissance art.
House of Savoy	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Italian royal dynasty that led unification under Victor Emmanuel II, ruling Italy until the 1946 republic.
House of Sforza	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	Milanese ducal dynasty that patronized Leonardo da Vinci before losing power to France and Spain.
Hungarian Revolution of 1956	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Popular uprising against Soviet control crushed by Red Army tanks; its leader Imre Nagy was later executed.
Isabella of France	High and Late Medieval Europe	English queen consort called the "She-Wolf," who deposed her husband Edward II with her lover Mortimer.
Ivan III	High and Late Medieval Europe	Muscovite grand prince called "the Great," who ended Mongol tribute and tripled Russian territory.
Jacquerie	High and Late Medieval Europe	1358 violent peasant uprising in northern France during the Hundred Years' War's chaos.
Jacques de Molay	High and Late Medieval Europe	Last Grand Master of the Knights Templar, burned at the stake after Philip IV suppressed the order.
Jagiellonian Dynasty	High and Late Medieval Europe	Polish-Lithuanian royal dynasty founded by Jogaila, ruling a vast Central European union into the 16th century.
Joan of Arc	High and Late Medieval Europe	French peasant girl who claimed divine visions, lifted the siege of Orleans, and was burned as a heretic.
John Knox	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Firebrand Scottish reformer who founded Presbyterianism and clashed fiercely with Mary, Queen of Scots.
Jozef Pilsudski	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Polish statesman who won independence and led Poland's victory over Soviet Russia in 1920.
Kievan Rus	Early Medieval Europe	Medieval East Slavic federation centered on Kyiv, from which Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus trace their origins.
Kingdom of Bavaria	High and Late Medieval Europe	Southern German duchy, later kingdom, long ruled by the Wittelsbach dynasty from its capital Munich.
Kingdom of Poland	High and Late Medieval Europe	Central European kingdom of the Piast and Jagiellonian dynasties, later partitioned out of existence in the 18th century.
Konrad Adenauer	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	First chancellor of West Germany, who rebuilt the postwar economy and anchored it in Western alliances.
Leopold II	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Belgian king whose brutal personal exploitation of the Congo Free State caused immense atrocities.
Levellers	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Radical English Civil War-era movement demanding expanded suffrage and legal equality, voiced in the Putney Debates.
Lithuania	High and Late Medieval Europe	Baltic state that formed a vast medieval union with Poland under the Jagiellonians, independent again since 1990.
Ludwig Erhard	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	West German chancellor and economics minister credited with engineering the postwar "economic miracle."
Luxembourg	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Small Grand Duchy whose independence and neutrality were guaranteed by 19th-century European treaties.
Mainz	Renaissance and the Age of Exploration	German city where Johannes Gutenberg developed movable-type printing in the mid-15th century.
Marie-Antoinette	Revolution and Napoleonic Europe	Austrian-born French queen guillotined during the Revolution, target of the earlier Diamond Necklace scandal.
Mary I	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	Catholic Tudor queen called "Bloody Mary" for burning Protestants while trying to reverse England's Reformation.
Matilda	High and Late Medieval Europe	Empress and claimant to the English throne whose civil war with King Stephen was called the Anarchy.
Megali Idea	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Greek irredentist vision of uniting all Greek-inhabited lands, driving foreign policy from independence through the 1920s.
Mehmed II	High and Late Medieval Europe	Ottoman sultan called "the Conqueror," who captured Constantinople in 1453, ending the Byzantine Empire.
Michael	Cold War and Contemporary Europe
Michael Collins	World War I and Revolutionary Europe	Irish revolutionary leader who negotiated the Anglo-Irish Treaty and was killed in the ensuing civil war.
Morocco	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	North African sultanate whose contested status sparked early-20th-century crises between France and Germany.
New Zealand	Cold War and Contemporary Europe
Northumbria	Early Medieval Europe	Powerful early Anglo-Saxon kingdom, a center of Christian learning at monasteries like Lindisfarne and Jarrow.
Pankhurst	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Likely Emmeline Pankhurst, militant leader of the British suffragette movement for women's voting rights.
Peace of Westphalia	Reformation and the Wars of Religion	1648 treaties ending the Thirty Years' War, establishing state sovereignty and religious settlement in the Holy Roman Empire.
Pepin	Early Medieval Europe	Likely Pepin the Short, first Carolingian king of the Franks and father of Charlemagne.
Pravda	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Official newspaper of the Soviet Communist Party, a key propaganda organ throughout the USSR's history.
Prester John	High and Late Medieval Europe	Legendary Christian king believed by medieval Europeans to rule a powerful kingdom in Asia or Africa.
Prince Eugene of Savoy	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	Habsburg general who defeated the Ottomans at Zenta and the French in the War of the Spanish Succession.
printing	Economy, Society, and Culture	Movable-type technology introduced by Gutenberg, transforming the spread of religious and scientific ideas.
Prussia	Absolutism and the Early Modern State	North German militarized state built by the Hohenzollerns, which spearheaded 19th-century German unification.
Queen Victoria	Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe	Long-reigning British monarch whose era saw industrial growth, imperial expansion, and constitutional monarchy's consolidation.
Republic of Albania	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Formal name of Albania, isolated under Communist dictator Enver Hoxha for over four decades after World War II.
Republic of Cyprus	Cold War and Contemporary Europe	Mediterranean island state independent since 1960, divided since Turkey's 1974 invasion.
