=== STOCK CLUES: Linda Nochlin ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 COLONIAL (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jean-Leon Gerome (the Linda Nochlin essay is "The Imaginary Orient")
  - A painting by this artist is analyzed in an essay that describes ten "resolutely alienated" men who watch with "childish, trancelike concentration," while the audience is given a "beguiling rear view." A painting by this artist bought by William Randolph Hearst depicts a leader on horseback with his army in the far background and was originally known as Oedipus. [PWR]
  - This artist's trips to Egypt inspired a painting of evening prayer in Cairo and (*) Bonaparte Before the Sphinx.
  - This artist's son-in-law Aime Morot helped create studies for a painting described as an "insistent, sexually charged mystery" in a Linda Nochlin essay about its "imaginary" subject matter.
  - The Clark Art Institute holds that painting by this artist, as well as another in which a woman's teeth are examined in a (*) slave market. [PWR]
  - In a painting by this artist, armed men sit against a blue-tiled wall and watch a nude boy with a reptile wrapped around his body.
  - That painting was used for the front cover of Edward Said's Orientalism.
  - For 10 points, name this French academic painter of The Snake Charmer. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Linda Nochlin <HF>
  - In one essay, this author points out that many great artists throughout history had fathers who were artists. [PWR]
  - In another essay, this thinker discusses the painting The Meeting as "A Portrait of the Artist as a Wandering Jew." This author used the example of Cimabue ["chee-ma-BOO-ey"] discovering Giotto as a shepherd boy to illustrate one concept. [PWR]
  - This author of the book Courbet wrote about the misleadingly realistic style of The Snake Charmer in "The Imaginary Orient." She wrote that the title (*) phrase of her most famous essay is rooted in the belief that great artists have an inherent genius when, in actuality, making art is determined by social, cultural, and psychological factors. [PWR]
  - That 1971 essay concludes by considering the career of the painter of The Horse Fair, Rosa Bonheur.
  - Often called the first feminist art historian, for 10 points, name this author of "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?" [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An essay by this author criticizes the commonly held presumption that artistic achievement is "miraculous, nondetermined, and asocial." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Linda Nochlin):
    Name this author who argued that despite historians' contemporary focus on artists like Artemisia Gentileschi, there is no female equivalent to Michelangelo in the essay "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?"
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Zoffany):
    As an example of how women were historically banned from painting nude subjects, Nochlin cited this artist's group portrait of the English Royal Academy, in which Angelica Kauffman and Mary Moser appear as paintings on the wall because there are nude male models in the room. This artist also painted The Tribuna of the Uffizi.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosa Bonheur):
    Nochlin's essay extensively discussed this artist's career to show that institutional support is necessary for achievement in art. The police granted this artist permission to crossdress in order to paint The Horse Fair.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about feminist critiques of the art world, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Linda Nochlin):
    This art historian wrote the seminal 1971 article "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?", which highlighted the work of Judith Leyster and Rosa Bonheur and critiqued the field of art history as a whole.
  Part 2 (ans: The Metropolitan Museum of Art [or The Met]):
    A poster by the Guerilla Girls asks if "women have to be naked" to get into this New York art museum because 85% of its nudes were women. This art museum is the largest in the U.S.
  Part 3 (ans: Judy Chicago):
    Amelia Jones curated an exhibit at the Hammer Museum contextualizing this artist's most famous work "in Feminist Art History." A large triangular installation by this artist is a table with sections dedicated to Virginia Woolf and Artemisia Gentileschi.

[B3] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, identify the following about American artist Florine Stettheimer.
  Part 1 (ans: cathedrals [accept Salisbury Cathedral or Cathedrals of New York; prompt on churches]):
    Stettheimer used this term to describe a series of paintings of New York City landmarks such as Fifth Avenue. Cows drink from a stream in front of one of these buildings in Wiltshire in a painting by John Constable.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp [or Henri-Robert-Marcel Duchamp]):
    In 1923, Stettheimer painted a portrait of this artist dressed as his alter ego Rrose Selavy. He created the readymade Fountain.
  Part 3 (ans: Linda Nochlin [or Linda Weinberg]):
    Stettheimer's reputation was revived in the 1980s by an essay by this art historian praising Stettheimer's Cathedrals of New York series. She revolutionized the art world with her 1971 essay, "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?"

[B4] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a self-portrait, this photographer is nude, half-submerged in a river, and grabbing a tree's roots. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francesca Woodman):
    Name this woman who photographed herself in blurry motion or blending into the backdrop in series like Space2. She published only the book Some Disordered Interior Geometries before her 1981 suicide at the age of 22.
  Part 2 (ans: Linda Nochlin):
    Woodman was discussed alongside artists like Mona Hatoum and Carrie Mae Weems in a 2006 book dedicated to this art historian's essay "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?" Her work on 19th-century France includes the essay "The Imagined Orient" and the influential monograph Realism.
  Part 3 (ans: bathers [accept any description of bathing]):
    A 2006 book by Nochlin examines how the "visceral eye" views these painterly subjects. Near the ends of their careers, Cezanne and Renoir both painted "Large" depictions of nude women doing this action.

[B5] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Daniel Fink advanced an early form of the theory created by these two men by identifying 10 points, such as "halation of highlights" and "precise treatment of reflections." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Hockney and Charles M. Falco [accept Hockney-Falco thesis; accept the names in either order]):
    Name this art historian and physicist, who collaborated on a 2001 book that argued realism in western art was achieved with the aid of the camera obscura and lenses.
  Part 2 (ans: Johannes Vermeer [or Jan Vermeer or Johan Vermeer]):
    The Hockney-Falco thesis claims that this Dutch artist created many of his paintings, such as Allegory of Painting, with the aid of visual tools.
  Part 3 (ans: Linda Nochlin [or Linda Weinberg]):
    This thinker argued against the Hockney-Falco thesis by pointing out the realistic texture of wedding gowns and cloth in general. This academic also wrote about the "death of the heroic landscape" in Bathers, Bodies, Beauty.

[B6] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This author wrote an essay examining the continuing impact of artists like Louise Bourgeois titled for "Thirty Years After" her most famous work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Linda Nochlin):
    Name this author, who argued that the titular question hides an implicit bias toward rejecting the artistic capability of women by portraying them as a "problem" in "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?"
  Part 2 (ans: the nude [accept Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2 or Nu descendant un escalier no. 2]):
    Nochlin's essay examines the "question of" this common subject in art history. An abstract painting titled for this artistic subject caused an "explosion in a shingle factory" at the Armory Show.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Cezanne):
    A Nochlin essay titled "[this artist]: Studies in Contrast" argues that this artist's depictions of old peasants with huge, sagging bottoms are meant to highlight impotency. This artist painted many scenes of Mont Sainte-Victoire.
