=== STOCK CLUES: Rosso Fiorentino ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jacopo Pontormo's version of this scene in the Capponi Chapel is crowded with figures wearing soft blues and pinks around the central figure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Deposition of Christ [or Descent from the Cross; prompt on descriptions like taking Christ off the cross by asking "what is the conventional name of that scene in art?"]):
    Name this scene from the life of Jesus, the subject of a Rogier van der Weyden painting for the Leuven guild of archers. A Rubens triptych of this scene shows Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea atop ladders.
  Part 2 (ans: Mary [or the Blessed Virgin Mary or the Blessed Virgin Mary; prompt on mother of Jesus or Madonna]):
    The elongated figures of Pontormo's Deposition exemplify Mannerism, as does Parmigianino's painting of this woman with a "Long Neck." Madonna scenes depict this woman with Jesus.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosso Fiorentino [or il Rosso or Giovanni Battista di Jacopo]):
    This other Mannerist painter placed two ladders at unusual perspectives in his Volterra Deposition. At the behest of Francis I, this painter and Francesco Primaticcio founded the First School of Fontainebleau.

[B2] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist and his student Barristino supposedly owned an ape that once broke all the tiles on the roof of a friar's home by dancing on top of it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rosso Fiorentino [or Il Rosso; or Giovanni Battista di Jacopo]):
    Name this Italian artist, named for his red hair and home city. In his best-known painting, made for the Duomo of Volterra, men in brightly colored robes climb ladders to perform the title Deposition of Christ.
  Part 2 (ans: Madonna [or Madonna and Child; or Virgin Mary; or the Blessed Virgin]):
    Fiorentino was a student of Andrea del Sarto, an artist best known for his painting of this person standing on top of a pedestal with relief sculptures of harpies on it.
  Part 3 (ans: Mannerism [or Mannerist; prompt on Late Renaissance]):
    Fiorentino was a Florentine artist who painted in this mode, whose name comes from an Italian word for "style." Parmigianino's Madonna with the Long Neck exemplifies this style, which often used elongated proportions and unnatural poses.

[B3] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The use of the serpentinata style of figure in this art period may have been inspired by the discovery of the Laocoon group. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mannerism [accept word forms]):
    Name this art style of the late Renaissance. Its focus on elongated figures is exemplified by Parmigianino's Madonna of the Long Neck.
  Part 2 (ans: Deposition of Christ [or Descent from the Cross]):
    Agnolo Bronzino depicted several flying putti carrying a cross and a column near the top of his depiction of this scene, which shows a blue-clad Mary cradling the body of Jesus. The Capponi Chapel is home to Jacopo Pontormo's brightly-colored depiction of this scene.
  Part 3 (ans: Rosso Fiorentino):
    This Mannerist artist depicted an oddly green-shaded Jesus in his Deposition, which is his best known work. He was one of the leading artists of the First School of Fontainebleau.

[B4] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A bearded man in a red and blue robe hanging on a ladder points in anguish at Jesus in this artist's version of the Deposition, now in the Volterra. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Rosso Fiorentino [or Giovanni Battista di Jacopo or Il Rosso]):
    Name this artist, who painted the title guy knocking out a bunch of other nude men in his 1523 work, Moses Defending the Daughters of Jethro.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dead Christ With Angels [or Dead Christ Supported By Angels; accept equivalents involving Dead Christ and Angels]):
    The title nude figure with a bent torso sits next to several curly haired figures in Fiorentino's version of this scene. Manet accidentally painted the spear wound on the wrong side of the body in his painting of this name, whose central figure reclines backwards and wears a white loin cloth.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea Mantegna):
    A more famous foreshortened Dead Christ, without angels, was painted by this artist of a bombed fresco cycle in the Ovetari Chapel and the nine-part series Triumphs of Caesar.
