=== STOCK CLUES: Francis Picabia ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Francis Picabia <HF>
  - Late in his career, this artist moved to Mougins ["MOO-jahnz"] and painted a series of mythological works in a style featuring many interwoven layers of dark outlines; these are his Transparencies. [PWR]
  - Stacia Napierkowska's rehearsals on a transatlantic voyage inspired this artist's cubist Star Dancer and Her School of Dance.
  - A diagram of a bellows-style camera and a gear shift under the word "Ideal" comprise one of this man's "mechanomorphs," a portrait of Alfred Steiglitz, from whom this artist also took inspiration for the name of a journal he started. [PWR]
  - This painter's (*) Dances at the Spring was shown both at the 1912 Section d'Or exhibition and the Armory Show.
  - A guide at the bottom left corner labels the smaller of two interlocking gears "femme" and the larger gear "homme" in this artist's painting Machine Turn Quickly.
  - For 10 points, name this French artist, founder of the magazine 391 and a pioneer of Dadaism. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's photograph of Marcel Duchamp's Fountain appeared in the Dadaist journal The Blind Man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred Stieglitz):
    Name this photographer whose art gallery 291 inspired the name of the Dadaist magazine 391. This American artist photographed a ship crowded with immigrants in The Steerage.
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Picabia):
    391 was started by this artist, who added the word "ideal" above a scissor lift in his portrait Here, This is Stieglitz Here. The 291 gallery also featured this French artist's Cubist painting of two girls, Dances at the Spring.
  Part 3 (ans: "An American Place"):
    After the closure of 291, Stieglitz focused on exhibiting American modernists through the Intimate Gallery and this other gallery, his last. At this gallery, Dorothy Norman organized a 1937 retrospective of the 291 gallery.

[B2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist placed a stuffed monkey in the middle of a work claiming to be a portrait of Cezanne, Renoir, or Rembrandt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francis Picabia (the last work mentioned is Machine Turn Quickly)):
    Name this artist, the founder of the 391 magazine. His piece I See Again in Memory My Dear Udnie uses automobile parts like spark plugs to evoke genitals, and he depicted two intermeshed gears labeled "Femme" and "Homme" in another painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred Stieglitz):
    Picabia represented this artist as a folding camera in a work titled Ici, C'est Ici [this artist]. This artist's 291 gallery inspired the name of Picabia's 391 magazine, and his own work includes a photograph of Fountain in front of Marsden Hartley's The Warriors.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    Fountain was one of many "readymades" selected and modified by this Dada artist.

[B3] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the 1930s, this woman sought to become the "most painted woman in the world" by commissioning portraits of herself for her club from artists such as Picasso. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Suzy Solidor [or Suzanne Louise Marie Marion]):
    Name this openly lesbian owner of the nightclub La Vie Parisienne ("lah vee pah-ree-SYEN"). The best-known portrait of her was made by her lover, the Art Deco artist and Polish aristocrat Tamara de Lempicka ("lem-PITS-kah").
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    As part of her project, Solidor was photographed by this artist, who added an f-shaped hole to the back of Kiki de Montparnasse in his photograph Le violon d'Ingres ("luh VEE-oh-lohn DON-gruh").
  Part 3 (ans: Francis Picabia (The other painting is Machine Turn Quickly.)):
    Among the many portraits Solidor commissioned was an Expressionist one by this artist, who also portrayed a bare-shouldered Gertrude Stein against a green mountain landscape. Another of this artist's paintings shows two gears labeled "femme" and "homme."

[B4] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about painters claimed to be the creator of the first abstract painting, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Wassily Kandinsky):
    One candidate is this Russian artist of the 1911 painting Composition V, who also wrote Concerning the Spiritual in Art.
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Picabia):
    The title has also been claimed for this French painter's 1909 painting Caoutchouc ("cow-CHOOK"), although it looks a little bit like a bowl of fruit. This richest member of the Dadaists published 391 Magazine and painted a set of turning gears in Machine Turn Quickly.
  Part 3 (ans: Personal Shopper):
    Swedish artist Hilma af Klint started moving away from figuration in 1906 with her "Paintings for the Temple" series. Her esoteric spiritual inspirations are investigated by Maureen in this Olivier Assayas film, which stars Kristen Stewart as a woman seeking contact with her dead brother.

[B5] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painter who worked in this style later used lines whose colors were inspired by Egyptian art to create her Ka and Ra series. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Op art):
    Name this art movement whose members include Bridget Riley. Many of its paintings, such as Riley's Movement in Squares, are designed to give the viewer an illusion of motion or images that do not exist.
  Part 2 (ans: black AND white):
    Many of Riley's paintings, including several "untitled" entries in her Fragments series, use only these two colors. Combinations of these two colors are present in monochrome paintings.
  Part 3 (ans: Francis Picabia [or Francis-Marie Martinez de Picabia]):
    This artist's Optophone I may be a precursor to Op art. This French Cubist promoted the works of Man Ray and Marcel Duchamp (dyoo-SHAWM) in his magazine 391, inspired by Alfred Stieglitz's periodical 291.

[B6] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For his project Dadaglobe, this artist solicited photos of art as well as a "clear photo of your head (not body)," which, if altered, "should retain clarity," unsurprisingly resulting in a lot of photos doing neither of those things. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francis Picabia):
    Name this artist who collaborated with Tristan Tzara on Dadaglobe. His works include a toy monkey on cardboard titled Portrait of Cezanne, Portrait of Renoir, Portrait of Rembrandt.
  Part 2 (ans: collage [or photomontage; prompt on "decoupage"]):
    Many submissions to Dadaglobe were this type of art. Examples of works in this medium include Hannah Hoch's Cut with the Kitchen Knife through the Beer-Belly of the Weimar Republic and Matisse's Blue Nude II.
  Part 3 (ans: New York City [or New York; or New Amsterdam; or The Big Apple; or The City So Nice, They Named It Twice; or The Modern Gomorrah]):
    Dada in America was centered in this Eastern city, home to Picabia as well as Marcel Duchamp. The Museum of Modern Art, which hosted a recent exhibition on Dadaglobe, is located in this city.

[B7] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A recurring image in this film is of ants crawling out of a hole in a hand that has been closed in a door, and another scene shows a man dressed in a habit riding a bicycle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Un Chien Andalou [or An Andalusian Dog]):
    Name this 1929 short film which famously shows an eye being slit by a straight razor.
  Part 2 (ans: Salvador Dali):
    Un Chien Andalou was directed by Luis Bunuel along with this more famous Catalan surrealist, who plays a priest in the movie.
  Part 3 (ans: Francis Picabia):
    In Rene Clair's film Entr'acte, Duchamp plays chess with Man Ray, and Erik Satie and this surrealist painter fire a cannon. This French artist created Machine Turn Quickly, and many of his drawings appeared in the magazine 391.

[B8] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One person associated with this art movement drew on Alfred Stiglitz's earlier magazine, 291, to create his own 391, and painted two portraits of Undine in the Orphist style. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dadaism):
    Name this art movement which included the playwright of The Gas Heart, Tristan Tzara, the artist of The Elephant Celebes, Max Ernst, and the photomontage pioneer Hannah Hoch.
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Picabia):
    This other Dada artist, in addition to creating the aforementioned 391, labeled the small gear "femme" and the large gear "homme" in his painting Machine Turn Quickly.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    This more famous Dada artist created readymades like Fountain and shocked Americans at the Armory Show with his Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2.
