=== STOCK CLUES: Christo Vladimirov ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christo Vladimirov Javacheff [or Christo Vladimirov Javacheff]
  - A Maysles documentary describes a rancher's experience sleeping beside an artwork by this man.
  - Cologne Harbor was the site of an early artwork by this man titled Dockside Packages.
  - For decades, this man tried to gain permission from the United Arab Emirates to build the stacked-oil-barrel sculpture Mastaba.
  - This man created several large, inflatable indoor installations known as Air Packages.
  - He used saffron-colored fabric to construct 7,503 structures in Central Park in his project The Gates, which, like virtually all of his work, was performed in collaboration with his Moroccan-born French wife Jean-Claude.
  - For 10 points, name this Bulgarian mononymic artist who is best known for his part in wrapping the Reichstag. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about art in the films of the late David Lynch, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Venus de Milo [or Aphrodite of Melos]):
    On Twin Peaks, the hallway of the "red room" contains this ancient Greek sculpture of a love goddess lacking both her arms.
  Part 2 (ans: Christo [or Christo Vladimirov Javacheff]):
    Also on Twin Peaks, the imagery of Laura Palmer's body may have been inspired by this artist's early work "Wrapped Woman." This artist hung orange nylon from hundreds of gates in Central Park with his partner Jeanne-Claude.
  Part 3 (ans: Poland [or Republic of Poland or Rzeczpospolita Polska] (The unmentioned artist is Magdalena Abakanowicz.)):
    Several Lynch sets were inspired by abandoned textile factories in this country, the implied setting of Inland Empire. A sculptor from this country used burlap to create headless sculptures, recreated in the installation Agora.

[B2] 2023 ACF Fall (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For his Anthropometries series, Yves Klein painted nude models this color and had them make imprints on a blank canvas as "human paintbrushes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blue [accept International Klein Blue]):
    Name this color that Klein developed a namesake international shade of using ultramarine. Pigments of this primary color can be produced from lapis lazuli.
  Part 2 (ans: Venus de Milo [or Aphrodite of Melos]):
    Klein created a headless plaster cast of this sculpture completely covered in blue. Alexander of Antioch is believed to have created this armless sculpture that features 28 times in Dali's The Hallucinogenic Toreador.
  Part 3 (ans: Christo and Jeanne-Claude [or Christo Vladimirov Javacheff and Jeanne-Claude Denat de Guillebon; prompt on partial answer]):
    These two artists were both part of the Nouveau realisme movement founded by Yves Klein. This husband-and-wife duo designed large landmark projects such as the Wrapped Reichstag.

[B3] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sometimes transporting works of art can be a deadly business. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Calder):
    Two engineers were killed when the base collapsed on a 3-ton sculpture by this artist that was being installed in Princeton. One of this artist's signature mobiles hangs in the East Building of the National Gallery of Art.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Serra):
    A rigger was killed when a portion of this artist's Sculpture No. 3. fell. This man's controversial Tilted Arc was removed from Foley Federal Plaza in 1989.
  Part 3 (ans: Christo [or Christo Vladimirov Javacheff]):
    This man's Umbrellas project was dismantled after one fatally broke loose; unfortunately, a Japanese worker was electrocuted in the dismantling. This man collaborated on The Gates in Central Park with JeanneClaude.

[B4] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 1981 photograph shows this man wrapped head to toe in fabric. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christo Vladimirov Javacheff [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this Bulgarian artist who died in May 2020 and is known for his many collaborations with his wife that include 1995's Wrapped Reichstag.
  Part 2 (ans: Annie Leibovitz [or Anna-Lou Leibovitz]):
    This photographer took that picture of Christo. Meryl Streep tugs diagonally at the corners of her white painted face in a Rolling Stone cover photograph by this artist.
  Part 3 (ans: Central Park):
    The aforementioned Leibovitz photograph was taken at this New York location where Jean-Claude and Christo created their installation The Gates. Diane Arbus photographed a child with a hand grenade in this Frederick Law Olmstead designed park.

[B5] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For an exhibit running from June to October 2016, an artist installed one of these features outside the Palace of Versailles's Grand Canal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: waterfalls [accept New York City Waterfalls]):
    In 2008, the Danish-Icelandic artist Olafur Eliasson ("oh-lah-foor el-EE-ah-son") recreated what sort of natural feature underneath Brooklyn Bridge?
  Part 2 (ans: Christo Vladimirov Javacheff AND Jeanne-Claude Denat de Guillebon [prompt on partial answers]):
    In 2008, Eliasson ("el-EE-ah-son") surpassed this couple's installations of orange gates in Central Park as the most-expensive public arts project. This couple also wrapped the Reichstag in plastic.
  Part 3 (ans: London, Great Britain):
    In 2018, Eliasson ("el-EE-ah-son") installed blocks of ice in this city to showcase the negative effects of climate change. Eliasson ("el-EE-ah-son") also created The Weather Project for this city's Tate Modern museum.

[B6] 2019 ILLIAC (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about photographer Annie Leibovitz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Bourke-White):
    Annie Leibovitz once mounted one of the gargoyles on the 61st floor of the Chrysler Building in an emulation of this Life magazine photographer.
  Part 2 (ans: Christo Vladimirov Javacheff [accept either underlined part]):
    Annie Leibovitz photographed this artist in Central Park wrapped and tied up -- a reference to his lifelong obsession of wrapping things in fabric with his wife Jeanne-Claude.
  Part 3 (ans: John (Winston Ono) Lennon (MBE)):
    Leibovitz is best known for taking photos of Yoko Ono and this Beatle on the day he was shot.

[B7] 2018 Stevenson Memorial Tournament (SMT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A photograph by Annie Leibovitz taken in Central Park shows this man wrapped in fabric. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christo Vladimirov Javacheff [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this mononymous artist who worked with his wife Jeanne-Claude on large-scale environmental artworks, such as Wrapped Coast, Wrapped Reichstag, and Running Fence.
  Part 2 (ans: John Lennon):
    In 1980, a year before doing Christo's portrait, Leibovitz had photographed this man lying nude next to his wife Yoko Ono on the day that he was assassinated.
  Part 3 (ans: the decisive moment):
    In a 2012 interview, Leibovitz noted, "I don't know if I believe in [this concept] any more." This concept titles a photo book that includes an image of a man riding a bicycle past a winding stairwell, titled Hyeres, France ["yair france"].

[B8] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about when art kills, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: mobile):
    During an installation of an Alexander Calder piece at Princeton, a snapped cable resulted in the death of two workmen. Calder originated this type of sculpture whose shapes move in response to touch or air currents.
  Part 2 (ans: Christo [or Christo Vladimirov Javacheff]):
    This artist and his wife once took seven years to set up thousands of yellow umbrellas in California and blue umbrellas in Japan as part of an art project. High winds blew an umbrella in California loose, killing a bystander.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Serra):
    A piece by this sculptor, noted for working with large-scale assemblies of sheet metal, had a part break free from its support and kill a rigger in Minneapolis. He installed Tilted Arc, an arc of rusted steel in New York City's Federal Plaza.

[B9] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of yellow umbrellas in this state complemented a group of blue umbrellas half-way around the world in Asia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: California):
    Name this state where one can find Running Fence and the Winchester Mystery House.
  Part 2 (ans: Christo [or Christo Vladimirov Javacheff]):
    Those umbrellas and Running Fence were artworks designed by Jean-Claude and this artist, who also wrapped a bunch of islands in nylon pink.
  Part 3 (ans: The Gates):
    This other work of Christo consists of unfurled rolls of saffron colored fabric hanging from the namesake structure in Central Park. It was only on public display in 2005.

[B10] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The artist behind this work also created A Nonsite, Franklin, New Jersey, and it was constructed using materials like basalt rocks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Spiral Jetty):
    Identify this work of Robert Smithson completed in 1970 that was submerged for many years after its creation.
  Part 2 (ans: Christo Vladimirov Javacheff [accept either underlined answer]):
    Smithson's oeuvre shares motifs with public-art projects like The Gates and Running Fence created by this man and his wife, Jeanne-Claude.
  Part 3 (ans: Reichstag Building):
    Christo and Jeanne-Claude once wrapped this building in polypropylene. A famous photo by Yevgeny Khaldei sees a Soviet soldier holding a flag on top of this building.

[B11] 2012 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One work by this artist memorializes the Kent State shootings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Smithson):
    Name this creator of the Partially Buried Woodshed whose Spiral Jetty can still be seen at Rozel Point at the Great Salt Lake.
  Part 2 (ans: Christo Vladimirov Javacheff [accept either underlined name]):
    This artist and his partner Jeanne-Claude made many pieces of earth-art by wrapping large structures like bridges and islands up in fabric. He also set up "The Gates" in Central Park.
  Part 3 (ans: the Reichstag [or Reichstagsgebaude; prompt on answers which only mention the German parliament]):
    One of the structures Christo and Jeanne-Claude wrapped up was this Berlin building in 1995.
