=== STOCK CLUES: Caruso ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This aria includes a tradition of letting the voice crack in a sob-note at its climax. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Vesti la giubba" [prompt on "Put on the Costume" or "On With the Motley"]):
    Name this aria in which Canio bemoans having to perform immediately after hearing of his wife's infidelity. This aria's title expresses the sentiment that "the show must go on."
  Part 2 (ans: clown [accept Pagliacci or il pagliacco; prompt on pierrot or commedia dell'arte actor; prompt on circus performer]):
    Canio is a member of this profession, which titles the Leoncavallo opera in which he appears. In "Vesti la giubba," he puts on the makeup of this profession and tells himself to "turn your distress and tears into jokes."
  Part 3 (ans: Enrico Caruso):
    This tenor's 1902 recording of "Vesti la giubba" was the first record to sell more than a million copies. This prolific Italian tenor was extorted by two Black Hand gangsters, whom he later helped apprehend.

[B2] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera was controversially referred to as a "shabby little shocker" by musicologist Joseph Kerman in his 1956 book Opera as Drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tosca):
    Name this opera. After Kerman's scathing remarks, the conductor Thomas Beecham responded by saying that anything Kerman says about this opera's composer "can safely be ignored."
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini [or Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini]):
    Tosca is an opera by this composer. The Jonathan Larson musical Rent is based on his opera La boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: Enrico Caruso):
    Puccini considered casting this young operatic tenor as Cavaradossi for the premiere of Tosca, but selected the older Emilio De Marchi instead, which he later regretted. This Italian tenor sold over a million copies of his recordings of "Vesti la giubba" ("VESS-tee la JOOB-bah") from Pagliacci ("pahl-YAH-chee").
