=== STOCK CLUES: Rameau ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 40 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Rameau's Nephew [or Le Neveu de Rameau; prompt on Rameau; prompt on Lui until read; prompt on Him until read; prompt on the Nephew or Neveu]
  - This character tells the story of a tax collector who uses robes and a mask to train a lap dog to love the Keeper of the Seals. [PWR]
  - Lionel Trilling's Sincerity and Authenticity builds on the use of this character in Phenomenology of Spirit, in which he illustrates the self-estranged "disintegrated soul." This character froths at the mouth during his increasingly elaborate musical pantomimes, which start with a Locatelli sonata and climax with Jomelli's Lamentations.
  - In the last line, this character tells "Mister Philosopher" that "the man who'll laugh last will laugh best" as he dashes off to the opera.
  - This character mocks "wood-pushing" (*) chess players in the Cafe de la Regence in a text in which his lines are marked with "Lui," or "Him." For 10 points, what cynical relative of a Baroque composer titles a dialogue by Denis Diderot? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: France (The first line refers to Debussy/Rameau. The second line refers to Elisabeth Jacquet de la Guerre.)
  - Two composers from this country described as "painters in sound" title a 2020 Vikingur Olafsson piano album that includes a transcription of "The Arts and the Hours." A female composer from this country wrote a set of harpsichord suites separated by barless, time signature-less "unmeasured preludes." Baroque music from this country was often performed with "unequal notes," which is similar to swung eighths. [PWR]
  - The opening movements of Bach's orchestral suites are in a style of (*) overture from this country with a slow-fast, two-movement structure.
  - "The Mysterious Barricades" is by a harpsichordist from this country who wrote The Art of Playing the Harpsichord.
  - A composer at this country's royal court contracted gangrene while conducting his Te Deum.
  - For 10 points, name this country home to Francois Couperin and Jean-Philippe Rameau. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jean-Philippe Rameau
  - Krump dancers perform to music from one work by this composer in a film by Clement Cogitore, who is staging that work with the choreographer Bintou Dembele at the Opera national de Paris. [PWR]
  - Mercury and Egle dance with the muse Terpsichore to celebrate their love in this composer's Les fetes d'Hebe.
  - Mnemosyne and the title muse praise the recent victory at the Battle of Fontenoy during the Temple of Memory prologue to this composer's Les fetes de Polymnie. [PWR]
  - (+) Voltaire wrote the libretto to this composer's piece Le temple de la Gloire, and a tragic opera by this composer contains the aria Tristes apprets. [PWR]
  - This composer based one of his opera-ballets on Racine's (*) Phedre, and the racist act Les Sauvages is from this composer's Orientalist opera Les Indes Galantes. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this French Baroque composer of Castor et Pollux and Hippolyte et Aricie who rivaled Jean-Baptiste Lully during the Baroque era. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jean-Philippe Rameau
  - In an opera by this man, Zima and Adario pledge their love for each other before a peace pipe ceremony; that opera by this man also contains the act "The Generous Turk." He cut a prologue that celebrated the War of the Polish Succession from the revival of an opera in which Telaira sings "Tristes apprets" (treest ah-PREH) and is loved by a pair of twins, only one of whom is initially immortal.
  - This man's operas were disparaged by fans of Pergolesi's La serva padrona in the "War of the Buffoons." He wrote one of the first explanations of tonal music in his Treatise on Harmony.
  - For 10 points, name this French Baroque composer whose operas Castor et Pollux and Les indes galantes (lay ZAND gah-LONT) reimagined forms previously established by Jean-Baptiste Lully. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jean-Philippe Rameau
  - In his preface to one of his collections, this composer defended the twelfth-bar transition from C sharp to D flat in the second section of one of the pieces. [PWR]
  - The left hand constantly crosses over the right, creating the illusion of the title deformity, in this composer's piece "The Three Hands." This man composed several tambourins, the best-known of which is the penultimate movement of his suite in E minor. [PWR]
  - Under the opening notes "G, G, G, G, G, G, B flat, D," this man wrote the words "co co co co co co co dai," imitating the (*) clucking of a hen. [PWR]
  - Princess Phani is courted by the rivals Don Carlos and Huascar, while a volcano erupts, in the Incas of Peru section of this composer's ballet-heroique Les indes galantes.
  - One of this composer's operas ends with Jupiter decreeing that the protagonists can share their immortality, and another is based on a libretto by the composer's contemporary Jean Racine.
  - For 10 points, name this baroque French composer of Castor et Pollux and Hippolyte et Aricie. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Answer: Rameau's Nephew, or the Second Satire [or Le Neveu de Rameau ou La Satire seconde]
  - The title character of this work distinguishes between literal and figurative ass-kissing when explaining why he doesn't want to kiss Adelaide Hus's ass.
  - It includes the story of the renegade of Avignon, who lived with a Jew.
  - One character in this work claims that Racine would have been richer as a grocer or a silk merchant than as a playwright, to which his interlocutor replies that Racine's plays will make people cry a thousand years hence.
  - The title character of this work explains how he taught accompaniment despite not understanding it, and later he performs a spirited imitation of the musical works of Duni.
  - The narrator of this work is called "Mister Philosopher" by the title character, and he enjoys watching chess players in the Cafe de la Regence.
  - For 10 points, name this philosophical dialogue by Denis Diderot, named for a relative of the composer of Les Indes Galantes. [GIVE]

[T7] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jean-Philippe Rameau
  - The wealthy financier La Poupliniere patronized this man, who composed "La Timide" and "L'Indiscrete" among other Pieces de clavecin en concerts.
  - Telaira sings the aria "Tristes apprets, pales flambeaux" in one of this man's operas, while another has four acts in Turkey, Peru, Persia, and North America.
  - This man's music was held up against the "corrupting" influence of Italian opera during the "War of the Buffoons," though he had earlier been controversial for the techniques he promoted in his Treatise on Harmony.
  - This composer's operas include Les Indes Galantes and Castor et Pollux.
  - For 10 points, name this Baroque composer who, after the death of Lully, was the dominant operatic composer in France. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rameau's Nephew or Le Neveau de Rameau
  - This work's title character tells of his time "under the leaky barrel" and standing by the statue of Memnon.
  - Other topics include whether Diogenes would have danced the pantomime and a hypochondriac robot blinded by a nightcap.
  - Michel Foucault's Madness and Civilization claims this work was incomprehensible to its contemporaries, such as Palissot.
  - It opens with the narrator watching chess players at Regency Park, where he encounters a man who is pained to listen to Les Indes Galantes because it reminds him of his artistic inferiority.
  - Structured as a dialogue between "Me" and "Him," for 10 points, name this work by Denis Diderot about a famous composer's relative. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Elisabeth Jacquet de La Guerre earned the patronage of Louis XIV after writing pieces for this instrument. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: harpsichord [or clavecin]):
    Name this instrument that Francois Couperin wrote a guide to playing. Unlike pianos, this keyboard instrument plucks, rather than hits the strings.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Alongside the earlier works by Couperin, this composer's Pieces de Clavecin("pee-ESS duh klav-SAN") are among the most popular French harpsichord suites. This composer rose to fame after publishing his Treatise on Harmony.
  Part 3 (ans: unmeasured prelude [or non-measured prelude or prelude non mesure]):
    A characteristic feature of French baroque harpsichord suites is the use of opening preludes described by this term in which the rhythm is not notated and is left to the performer to decide.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This word precedes "continuo" to describe the portion of a Baroque music ensemble that supplies the harmonic accompaniment. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bass [or basso; accept basso continuo; accept figured bass]):
    Give this word that follows "figured" in the name of a notation system that uses numbers to indicate what intervals to stack from the bottom up.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau ("rah-MOH")):
    The idea that chords can be inversions, such that the sounding bass note is not the true root or "fundamental bass" of the chord, was proposed by this French Baroque composer in his 1722 Treatise on Harmony.
  Part 3 (ans: 6/5/3 ("six-five-three") [or 6/5 ("six-five"); reject any partial answer]):
    In figured bass, what numbers are used to indicate a first-inversion seventh chord? You may give either the full three-number form or the abbreviated two-number form.

[B3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The allegorical prologue of an opera by this composer is set in Hebe's palace, where Bellona intrudes, leading Cupid to depart from Europe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Name this French composer of Les Indes galantes and such tragedie en musique as Hippolyte et Aricie and Castor et Pollux.
  Part 2 (ans: ballet [accept opera-ballet; prompt on dance]):
    Like Rameau's Les fetes d'Hebe, Les Indes galantes is in a form combining opera with this other theatrical genre. At the Paris Opera in 1832, Marie Taglioni became the first of its practitioners to don a romantic tutu.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Jacques Rousseau):
    This man's tribute opera Les muses galantes failed to delight Rameau, who feuded with this Geneva-born creator of The Village Soothsayer during the Querelle des Bouffons and attacked his Encyclopedie articles on music.

[B4] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about pieces that are quoted in Saint-Saens's ("san-sawns's")The Carnival of the Animals, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Jacques Offenbach [or Jakob Offenbach]):
    The main melody of the movement "Tortoises" is an extremely slowed-down version of the cancan from this French composer's comic opera, Orpheus in the Underworld.
  Part 2 (ans: La damnation de Faust, Op. 24 [or The Damnation of Faust; reject "Faust"]):
    One of the two lightweight melodies quoted in the "Elephants" movement is the "Ballet des sylphes" ("ballet day SILF") from this Berlioz "dramatic legend," which also includes the "Rakoczy ("RAH-ko-tsee") March."
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Fittingly, the movement "Hens and Roosters" quotes "La Poule" ("pool") from one of this composer's collections of keyboard suites, which also includes "Les Triolets" ("leh trio-LAY") and "Les Sauvages" ("leh so-VAZH").

[B5] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An opera by this composer is divided into four parts focusing on love in the Ottoman Empire, Incan Peru, Persia, and North America. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Name this French Baroque composer who included the "Danse des Sauvages" (dahns day sau-VAHJ) in that opera, Les Indes galantes (lays AWN-duh gah-LAWNT). This author of a Treatise on Harmony composed the opera Hippolyte et Aricie (ee-poh-LEET ay ah-ree-CEE).
  Part 2 (ans: ballets [accept opera-ballets]):
    Rameau's works are often categorized as a combination of opera and this genre of wordless dance accompanied by music. Later works in this art form include Swan Lake.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Battista Pergolesi):
    Rameau's lyric tragedies were slandered in the War of the Buffoons, which was sparked by a performance of this Italian composer's opera buffa La serva padrona.

[B6] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about the literary appearances of the phrase, "He who laughs last, laughs best."
  Part 1 (ans: Christmas [accept The Christmas Prince or A Christmas Carol]):
    The phrase may have originated from an early Jacobean play titled for a Prince of this holiday. Jacob Marley's ghost is one of the many spirits that appear in an 1843 novella about this holiday.
  Part 2 (ans: John Vanbrugh):
    After he is asked to help his sister-in-law, Mr. Barnard calms himself down by saying the phrase in this author's play The Country House. This author's play The Relapse is a sequel to Colley Cibber's play Love's Last Shift.
  Part 3 (ans: Rameau's Nephew, or the Second Satire [or The Nephew of Rameau; or Le Neveu de Rameau ou La Satire seconde] (by Denis Diderot)):
    This work ends with the title character, called "Him" throughout the work, saying the phrase. This philosophical dialogue is set in the Regency Cafe where the narrator likes to watch people play chess.

[B7] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Marin Marais ("mah-RAN mah-RAY") wrote over 500 compositions for this instrument. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: viol ("vile") [or viola da gamba; or gamba; do not accept or prompt on "viola" or "viola da braccio"]):
    Name this instrument for which Antoine and Jean-Baptiste Forqueray wrote a collection of suites that have been recorded by Paolo Pandolfo. Jordi Savall is another modern player of this fretted instrument.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    This composer wrote a follow-up to his Pieces de clavecin ("p'YES duh clav-SAN") that uses a viol in addition to the solo harpsichord. This composer succeeded Lully as the leading French opera composer.
  Part 3 (ans: Baroque era):
    Forqueray and Rameau were composers from this era of music, which introduced many innovations following the Renaissance period. This era's other composers included Antonio Vivaldi and J. S. Bach.

[B8] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sylvie Bouissou ("bwee-SOO"), a partisan of one of these composers, decried the other's opera Hippolyte et Aricie ("ee-po-LEET ay ah-ree-SEE") as having destroyed her preferred composer's style with a "single stroke." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Lully ("loo-LEE") AND Jean-Philippe Rameau ("rah-MOH")):
    Name these two opera composers. One of them developed tragedie en musique ("tra-zhay-DEE on myoo-ZEEK") in operas he worked on with Philippe Quinault ("kee-NO"), while the other came to prominence with a Treatise on Harmony.
  Part 2 (ans: Baroque era):
    Lully and Rameau are the two master French opera composers of this musical era of the 17th and early 18th centuries, which preceded the classical era.
  Part 3 (ans: pastoral [or pastorale; accept Pastoral Symphony]):
    Both Lully and Rameau wrote operas described by this term, such as Lully's Acis et Galatee ("ah-SEESE ay gah-lah-TAY") and Rameau's Zais ("zah-EESE"). An early Romantic symphony titled for this adjective depicts a thunderstorm in its fourth of five movements.

[B9] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Identify the following about the career of computer animation pioneer John Whitney, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: slit-scan photography):
    Many of Whitney's animations used this photographic technique, in which a movable slide with an incision is placed between the camera and the object to be photographed, producing distorted effects. Douglas Trumbull used this technique in the Star Gate sequence in 2001: A Space Odyssey.
  Part 2 (ans: Vertigo):
    Whitney's Analog Cam Machine was used to make the spirals that come out from Kim Novak's eyes in the opening credits of this Alfred Hitchcock film, in which James Stewart's character develops acrophobia.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    While working as IBM's first artist-in-residence, Whitney produced a film titled "homage to" this Baroque composer, whose Treatise on Harmony had profoundly influenced him.

[B10] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these works was inspired by an ancient legend of island of Ys ("eese"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Preludes by Debussy):
    Name these set of 24 works for solo piano by Debussy that include "Footsteps in the Snow" and "The Girl with the Flaxen Hair."
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    In his first book of Images ("ee-MAHZH") for solo piano, Debussy composed an homage to this French operatic composer of Castor et Pollux and rival of Jean-Baptiste Lully.
  Part 3 (ans: "Clair de lune"):
    This third movement of Debussy's Suite bergamasque was titled for a poem by Paul Verlaine ("vair-LEN") and depicts the moon.

[B11] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The second of this musical work's three movements is itself subdivided into three further movements: "Through the Streets and Roads," "The Perfumes of the Night," and "The Morning of a Festival Day." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Images pour orchestre [or Images for orchestra; accept Images Book 3 or Set 3 or Third Set; prompt on Images by asking "for what instrumentation?"]):
    Name this work whose three-part second movement is titled "Iberia." Andre Caplet may or may not have had a hand in its first movement, "Gigues."
  Part 2 (ans: attacca):
    Debussy placed the instruction enchainez at the end of the "Perfumes" section of "Iberia." Enchainez is the French equivalent of this Italian word that indicates two movements should not be separated by a pause.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Claude Debussy's first book of Images, for solo piano, includes an "Homage to" this earlier French composer and draws its melody from this man's opera Castor et Pollux, which includes the aria "Sejour de l'eternelle paix."

[B12] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Pieces for this instrument include "The Mysterious Barricades" and "The Tic-Toc-Choc." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: harpsichord [or clavecin; do not accept "clavichord"]):
    Name this keyboard instrument, a predecessor of the piano, whose individual keys pluck a string upon being depressed.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Couperin ("FRANCE"-wah KOO-puh-RENG)):
    This French Baroque composer wrote a treatise on The Art of Playing the Harpsichord. He was known as "le Grand" to differentiate him from family members such as his uncle Louis.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    This other French composer wrote the opera-ballet Les Indes Galantes (luh ZEEND gah-LAHNT), a 1722 Treatise on Harmony, and three books of Pieces de clavecin ("piece" duh CLAH-vuh-SENG), the last of which includes an A minor gavotte with six variations.

[B13] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about musical treatises written during the Baroque era, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    This composer used arithmetic division to show that thirds and fifths could be used to 'generate' all other intervals in his Treatise On Harmony. He also found success with his operas Castor et Pollux and Hippolyte et Aricie.
  Part 2 (ans: just intonation):
    Rameau's method of generating intervals is most similar to this tuning system, which is based on the ratios of small whole numbers. In the 19th century, Hermann von Helmholtz launched attacks on equal temperament in favor of this system.
  Part 3 (ans: Michael Praetorius):
    This earlier German composer and theorist wrote the three-volume treatise Syntagma Musicum, considered one of the main sources of seventeenth-century theory.

[B14] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In his Treatise on Harmony, this composer introduced the notion of the "fundamental bass". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Name this French composer from the time of Louis XV, who wrote the operas Hippolyte et Aricie and Castor et Pollux.
  Part 2 (ans: Querelle des Bouffons [or War of the Buffoons; or Guerre des Bouffons; or War/Quarrel of the Comic Actors; or Guerre des Coins; or War/Quarrel of the Corners]):
    Rameau's "lyric tragedies" were supported by one side of this aesthetic conflict between French and Italian opera fans of the 1750's. It was started by a performance of Pergolesi's La serva padrona.
  Part 3 (ans: harpsichord):
    Rameau was also a prolific composer for this keyboard instrument, which works by plucking a string when a key is depressed. Francois Couperin wrote for this instrument, which was played by Wanda Landowska.

[B15] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man is often credited with codifying the theory of tonal music in his Treatise on Harmony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Identify this French composer who, though perhaps better known for his operas, also composed much harpsichord music like "La Rappel des Oiseaux" and "La Poule," in addition to Pieces de clavecin en concerts.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Lully):
    Rameau is sometimes considered the successor to this Italian-born French composer credited with bringing opera to France. You probably know him better for dying of gangrene after he stabbed his foot with a conducting staff.
  Part 3 (ans: gavotte):
    Both Lully and Rameau are famous for their takes on this dance in simple meter, which like the menuet and the bouree was often placed in the fifth section of the baroque suite, between the sarabande and gigue. Bach's 5th and 6th cello suites both feature these dances.

[B16] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this novel discusses the Calas family and declares, "He that laughs last laughs best." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rameau's Nephew [or Le Neveu de Rameau]):
    Name this novel whose narrator ventures into the Regency Cafe and strikes up a conversation with the relative of a composer.
  Part 2 (ans: Denis Diderot):
    This Frenchman wrote Rameau's Nephew. A valet declares that everything that happens is written on a "great scroll" in this man's novel Jacques the Fatalist.
  Part 3 (ans: The Encyclopedia [or Le Encyclopedie]):
    Diderot is better known for co-editing this reference book with Jean Le Rond d'Alembert.

[B17] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: His keyboard works include Les fastes de la grande et ancienne Mxnxstrxndxsx, which depicts the collapse of a troupe of traveling musicians due to the confusion caused by drunkards, monkeys, and bears. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Couperin le grand):
    Identify this composer who collected his keyboard works, including "Le tic-toc-choc" and "Les baricades misterieuses," in twenty-seven ordres.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Philippe Rameau):
    Another French Baroque writer of keyboard music was this composer of La Dauphine and several collections of Pieces de clavecin. He also wrote an influential Treatise on Harmony and composed Hippolyte et Aricie.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis-Claude Daquin):
    This other composer's pieces de clavecin include "Les trois cadences," named for the triple trill that was the first of its kind in French music, and the repetitive "Le coucou."
