=== STOCK CLUES: Christopher Okigbo ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 23 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 QUARTET (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Okigbo
  - In a poem by this author, he says, "The eye that looks down will surely see the nose; / The finger that fits should be used to pick the nose" and laments, "if I don't learn to shut my mouth I'll soon go to hell." The speaker of a poem by this author begs, "O mother mother Earth, unbind me; let this be / my last testament."That poem ends with the depiction of an old star "Gazing heavenward" before "The new star appears, foreshadows... a going and coming that goes on forever" and designates that it is meant to be read "(with (*) ) drum accompaniment)." This author of "Hurrah for Thunder" described himself "Leaning on an oilbean, / Lost in your legend" while waiting for an Igbo deity personified as a river in the poem "The Passage." For 10 points, name this Nigerian poet of "Elegy for Alto," who said, "Before you, mother Idoto, / naked I stand" to open his collection Heavensgate. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Christopher Okigbo [or Christopher Ifekandu Okigbo]
  - This author wrote a poem in which the "armpit-fragrance" of an "oblong-headed lioness" turns "chloroform enough" for the speaker's "patience." That poem appears in a cycle which renders the milieu of "the collective rape of innocence and profanation of mysteries," and concludes with the Sunbird once again being able to sing.
  - One of this writer's last poems was written in the form of a "praise song" to honor the centenary of W.
  - B.
  - Yeats' birth.
  - The barefooted speaker of another poem by this writer leans "on an oilbean" while being lost in a certain figure's "legend" as he "stands naked." This author of the collection Limits and the poem "Lament of the Masks" addressed the watery-goddess Mother Idoto in his sequence Heavensgate.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of the collection Labyrinths With a Path of Thunder, who was killed fighting for the independence of Biafra. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker hears this sound "raw / like bleeding flesh, speaking of / primal youth and the beginning" in a poem by Gabriel Okara. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: drums [or synonyms like drum beats or drumming; prompt on percussion]):
    Name this sound. In a play, Joseph is asked to interpret the meaning of this sound, but he is confused since it seems to signify both a death and a wedding.
  Part 2 (ans: Death and the King's Horseman):
    Simon Pilkings asks Joseph to interpret drums playing for Elesin Oba in this play by Wole Soyinka, which was inspired by a real-life incident in which colonial administrators intervened to prevent a ritual suicide.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Okigbo):
    This poet included the note "with drum accompaniment" at the beginning of his poem "Elegy for Alto." This Nigerian poet died while fighting in the Biafran war.

[B2] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In 1992, a poet born in this country relocated from Jamaica to the US state that titles his 2019 poetry collection Nebraska. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ghana):
    Name this country. An author from this country who died in a 2013 shooting in Kenya allegorized colonialism as a bird "preaching salvation to us that owned the house" in "The Weaver Bird."
  Part 2 (ans: literary magazines [or literary journals]):
    The author of Nebraska, Kwame Dawes, is the editor of Prairie Schooner, a prestigious one of these institutions. Other examples of these institutions include Granta, The Kenyon Review, and The Paris Review.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Okigbo):
    Kofi Awoonor's poem "Lament of the Silent Sisters" is dedicated to this poet, who wrote "Elegy for Alto" shortly before being killed in the Nigerian Civil War.

[B3] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Early in this essay, its author describes Western psychology as having a desire, or perhaps a need, to set up Africa as a foil to Europe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 'An Image of Africa'):
    Name this essay subtitled "Racism in Conrad's Heart of Darkness", which famously declared that Joseph Conrad was 'a thoroughgoing racist'. This essay is included in the collection Hopes and Impediments.
  Part 2 (ans: Chinua Achebe):
    This author criticised Conrad's racism in "An Image of Africa". They also wrote Things Fall Apart.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Okigbo):
    Another essay in Hopes and Impediments is titled "Don't Let Him Die" and commemorates this poet. This author wrote a poem addressed to the river goddess Mother Idoto, and another poem which opens "with drum accompaniment".

[B4] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem in this genre asks, "Are you grapevine wired?" and describes "the hennaed lips and fingers / Of our gazelle womenfolk, fecund Muses tuned / To Senghorian cadences." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: elegy [accept "Elegy for the Nation" or "Elegy for Alto"]):
    Name this poetic genre. The words "ROBBERS," "EAGLES," and "POLITICIANS" repeatedly appear in all-caps in another poem titled for this genre.
  Part 2 (ans: Nigerian Civil War [or Biafran War] (The poet is Christopher Okigbo.)):
    The author of the poem "Elegy for Alto" died while fighting in this conflict. Jonathan becomes a bicycle courier in the aftermath of this conflict in the short story "Civil Peace."
  Part 3 (ans: Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinualumogu Achebe]):
    This author of "Civil Peace" is the addressee of Wole Soyinka's poem "Elegy for the Nation." This author also wrote the novel Things Fall Apart.

[B5] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about drum accompaniments to West African poetry, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Mali Empire [or Manden Kurufaba or Mande]):
    Talking drums often accompany "praise singers" called griots, who orally preserved many poems from this West African empire, including the Epic of Sundiata.
  Part 2 (ans: Negritude):
    Critics like Renee Tillot have connected traditional drumming to the rhythm of Leopold Senghor's poems written as part of this movement. Aime Cesaire co-founded this francophone movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Okigbo [or Christopher Ifekandu Okigbo]):
    The parenthetical instruction "with drum accompaniment" opens this writer's poem "Elegy for Alto." This author of Heavensgate died while fighting in the Biafran War.

[B6] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about Quevedo's poem that satirizes Luis de Gongora's nose.
  Part 1 (ans: elephants [accept white elephants; accept elefante] ("Lament of the Masks" is by Christopher Okigbo)):
    After comparing Gongora's nose to a "swordfish with an awful beard," Quevedo compares it to one of these animals "turned upside down." An elegy for W.B. Yeats entitled "Laments of the Masks" repeats a line stating that "They thought you would stop pursuing" one of these animals.
  Part 2 (ans: Publius Ovidius Naso):
    After comparing Gongora's nose to an upside down elephant, Quevedo compares it to this man's nose, "but...nosier." This author's cognomen Naso means "the one with the nose," and his own poetry includes Amores and Ars Amatoria.

[B7] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author begins "with drum accompaniment" and describes, in all caps, "the robbers," "the eagles," and "the politicians" "descending upon us." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Okigbo):
    Name this Nigerian poet of "Elegy for Alto" who described himself as "Watchman to the watchword" and concludes "we are listening in cornfields among the windplayers" in his collection Heavensgate.
  Part 2 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    Okigbo wrote "Lament of the Masks" to commemorate the 100th birthday of this author of "Sailing to Byzantium" and "The Second Coming."
  Part 3 (ans: rivers [accept river goddesses]):
    The narrator of Okigbo's poem "The Passage" declares "Before you...naked I stand" to one of these things, which he calls "mother." Another poem about these things concludes with the line "my soul has grown deep."

[B8] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about the "frenzy of hands" and the "frenzy of statue feet" in his poem "They Came That Night." FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Leon-Gontran Damas):
    Name this poet who wrote about a man who "gulps down seven drinks of water/several times a day" in perhaps his best-known poem "Hiccups," and collected his verse in the volume Pigments.
  Part 2 (ans: The New Negro):
    Damas collected poems from the African diaspora in a 1947 anthology which he claimed was inspired by this 1925 collection of African-American writing edited by Alain Locke.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Okigbo):
    Damas composed a tribute for the funeral of this fellow African poet, whose poetry sequence "Path of Thunder" appeared in his posthumous collection Labyrinths.
