=== STOCK CLUES: Sterne ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 54 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 50 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Laurence Sterne
  - The narrator of a novel by this author suggests that his neighbor sponsored a midwife so that townspeople would stop "borrowing" the man's horse out of spite. [PWR]
  - This author may have intentionally left unfinished a novel that concludes as the protagonist "caught hold of a fille de chambre's...end of Vol. [PWR]
  - II." A character created by this author explains freedom by drawing a wiggly line in the air with his walking stick, which Balzac reproduced in the epigraph to (*) The Wild Ass's Skin.
  - A novel by this author uses a completely black page to represent the death of a character who also travels through France and Italy in a satirical "sentimental journey" by this author.
  - The protagonist believes his life to be altered after Dr.
  - Slop's forceps flatten his nose in a novel by this author that features his alter ego Parson Yorick.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Tristram Shandy. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: the West [or the western direction or horizon; or amenti; or amentet; accept the West Bank of the Nile, the Western Desert, Western Thebes, Western Luxor, or Foremost of the Westerners; accept the land of the sunset, the setting sun, the evening sky before "sky"; prompt on the Sahara desert, Thebes, or Luxor; prompt on tombs, the cemetery, the Theban or Luxor necropolis, or funerary complexes until "necropolises" with "what general region are those in?"; prompt on the land of the dead, the Egyptian underworld, or Duat before "Duat" with "what real location was used to refer to that?"]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - This general region was assigned a mythical boundary at the mountains of Manu and ruled by Qebehsenuef . [PWR]
  - Priests in Heliopolis held that Atum died in this general region, which is contrasted with Khepri's domain. [PWR]
  - In the New Kingdom, cult worship of past pharaohs was held in the desert of this region and involved crossing the Nile to literally enter it. [PWR]
  - This earthly region was the typical site of necropolises and was used to figuratively refer to (*) Duat, the land of the dead. [PWR]
  - The horizon of this region was where the sun barque entered the underworld before emerging twelve hours later on the opposite end of the sky.
  - For 10 points, identify this general region that included the half of Egypt in the direction of the setting sun. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Laurence Sterne
  - In 1969, this author's presumed skull was reinterred at a Coxwold estate after it was allegedly only saved because it was recognized by a Cambridge anatomy student when this author's body was stolen from a grave.
  - This author's correspondence in support of abolitionism helped bring Ignatius Sancho to prominence.
  - This author's writings to Eliza Draper were published under the name of a character created by this author, who ends a book mid-sentence while touching a chambermaid in France.
  - The monograph On Noses, by Hafen Slawkenbergius, is discussed in a novel by this author in which a mistake with a pair of forceps causes a character's nose to be flattened by Dr.
  - Slop.
  - That nine-volume novel by this author includes the digression-prone Parson Yorick.
  - For 10 points, name this author of A Sentimental Journey and Tristram Shandy. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Laurence Sterne
  - In 1969, this author's presumed skull was reinterred at a Coxwold estate after it was allegedly only saved because it was recognized by a Cambridge anatomy student when this author's body was stolen from a grave.
  - This author's correspondence in support of abolitionism helped bring Ignatius Sancho to prominence.
  - This author's writings to Eliza Draper were published under the name of a character created by this author, who ends a book mid-sentence while touching a chambermaid in France.
  - The monograph On Noses, by Hafen Slawkenbergius, is discussed in a novel by this author in which a mistake with a pair of forceps causes a character's nose to be flattened by Dr.
  - Slop.
  - That nine-volume novel by this author includes the digression-prone Parson Yorick.
  - For 10 points, name this author of A Sentimental Journey and Tristram Shandy. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 FRENCH (2017) | Diff: 10 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Numenor (accept Elenna-nore or Westernesse)
  - A foreign advisor to the last ruler of this kingdom had the tree Nimloth chopped down and offered human sacrifices to a banished god of darkness and evil. [PWR]
  - A ruler of this kingdom established the port of Vinyalonde to solidify his burgeoning maritime empire, a move which strained his relationship with his queen Erendis. [PWR]
  - A successor state to this kingdom was rocked by the attempted usurpation of Castamir, the Kin-strife. [PWR]
  - Supported by the King's Men, Ar-Pharazon, the last king of this state, brought about its destruction by attacking the (*) Undying Lands, an event described in the Akallabeth.
  - The righteous Elendil escaped the downfall of this kingdom and his house founded the kingdoms of Arnor and Gondor.
  - For 10 points, name this kingdom of Men, the dominant power of the Second Age of Middle-Earth. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: digressions in the work of Laurence Sterne [accept stories or interpolated passages from Tristram Shandy because eventually the material described is not a term of art]
  - In a meditation, a character wishes that "every new book shall be a labyrinth" of these things from which a person shall "vainly try to extricate himself." That meditation opens by claiming the desultory manner of these things can be found in the "satires and epistles of the excellent Horace," and asserts that Horace is merely a collection of these things.
  - The work in which these things appear is described as "progressive" by its narrator because these things supposedly represent the "soul of reading." Christoph Henke claims that the novel in which these things appear exhibits "self-reflexivity," since the recounting of these things prevents the story of the king of Bohemia and his seven Castles from ever being recited.
  - The text of Walter's encyclopedia, and the story of Hafen Slawkenbergius are examples of, for 10 points, what passages in Tristram Shandy that occupy the narrative so much that Tristram's birth isn't described until Book III? [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Laurence Sterne [accept A Sentimental Journey before mention of "this author"]
  - 'They order, said I, this matter better in France', is the opening line of a novel by this author.
  - That remark is made at Calais, and the story breaks off at Lyon with the narrator accidentally catching hold of a chambermaid in the dark.
  - In another of his novels, jackboots are used to supply mortars for a miniature re-enactment of the Siege of Namur [na-moor] by Trim and Uncle Toby.
  - "My dear, have you forgotten to wind up the clock?" is the unhappy question put by wife to husband at the moment of conceiving the titular narrator, who announces the death of Yorick with a black page.
  - For 10 points, name this author of A Sentimental Journey and Tristram Shandy. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: first contact (before "For 10 points," accept descriptive answers indicating early contacts between westerners and indigenous New Guineans)
  - Description acceptable Ivan Champion was praised for carrying out this action without the use of firearms. [PWR]
  - The so-called "Cult of Ain" was a religious movement that swept through the Enga region after this action caused a devastating outbreak of pig diseases.
  - This action titles the first film in a trilogy of documentaries by Connolly and Anderson that continued with Joe Leahy's Neighbors and Black Harvest. [PWR]
  - The book Sky Travellers is a narrative of this action, as carried out by the 1938 Hagen-Sepik (*) patrol, who were sometimes regarded as "spirit people." Prior to World War II, this action was often carried out by Australian gold prospectors who introduced steel tools to the highlands of Papua New Guinea. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, give this anthropological term indicating the initial encounter between westerners and previously isolated tribal societies. [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Laurence Sterne
  - In one novel by this author, the narrator is angered that his carriage speeds up while he is observing a man mourning a dead ass.
  - One character in another novel by this author gave up buying new horses in order to pay for a widow to learn to be a midwife.
  - In that novel by this man, the question of Martin Luther's birth date is settled by his Christian name.
  - This author of A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy also wrote a novel in which the title character's Uncle Toby is obsessed with earthworks.
  - That title character's nose is crushed at birth by Dr.
  - Slop's forceps.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Tristram Shandy. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The twentieth chapter of a novel titled for this place reads in its entirety, "I lay at your feet like a rug, Alya!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Berlin Zoo [or Berlin Zoological Garden; or Zoologischer Garten Berlin; prompt on zoo by asking "in what city?"]):
    What place titles an epistolary novel written in exile by Viktor Shklovsky? That novel is repeatedly quoted in Dubravka Ugresic's ("oo-GRAY-sheech's") The Museum of Unconditional Surrender, which opens by comparing its structure to the objects found in the stomach of Roland, a dead inhabitant of this place.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne (The memoir is Sentimental Journey: Memoirs 1917-1922. The "most typical novel" is Tristram Shandy.)):
    Shklovsky also wrote about Berlin in a memoir titled for a novel by this author, whom he credited with the "most typical novel in world literature." Diderot lifted passages from a novel by this author for Jacques the Fatalist.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett]):
    Ugresic's compatriot Dasa Drndic ("DAH-sha DURN-ditch") used the motif of a zoo's rhino enclosure in Doppelganger, one of her novels that's been compared to this author's French-language novels like Molloy.

[B2] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Arabella bases her expectations for life on French romance novels in a Charlotte Lennox novel titled for the female version of this character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Don Quixote [or Alonso Quixano; accept The Female Quixote]):
    Name this character, a hidalgo of La Mancha who becomes a knight after being driven mad by chivalric romances.
  Part 2 (ans: Tobias Smollett [or Tobias George Smollett] (The first character is Sir Launcelot Greaves. Obadiah Lismahago is from The Expedition of Humphry Clinker.)):
    Don Quixote inspired this author to create a traveling English knight and his squire Timothy Crabshaw. This author also created the quixotic Obadiah Lismahago, who woos Tabitha with stories of his colonial military service.
  Part 3 (ans: Tristram Shandy [or The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman] (by Laurence Sterne)):
    Another character inspired by Don Quixote is the uncle of this novel's protagonist, whose obsession with military sieges is described as a "hobby-horse." This novel's protagonist blames Dr. Slop's forceps for his flat nose.

[B3] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A liberal party with this name instituted divorce rights and an eight-hour workday during the "First Batllismo" ("bah-CHEEZ-moh"), which Howard Wiarda identified as a precursor of Latin American populism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Colorado Party [or Colorados or PC or Partido Colorado; accept Red Party; accept National Republican Association - Colorado Party or Asociacion Nacional Republicana - Partido Colorado or ANR-PC; prompt on Republican Party or Partido Republicano]):
    Give this name of a party that held power in Uruguay from 1865 to 1958 despite its "coparticipacion" ("koh-par-tee-see-pah-S'YOAN") with the Blancos. Alfredo Stroessner ("ess-TROZE-nair") led a conservative party with this name that controlled Paraguay after the War of the Triple Alliance.
  Part 2 (ans: Oriental ("or-yen-TAHL") [accept Banda Oriental or Provincia Oriental; accept Thirty-Three Orientals or Treinta y Tres Orientales; accept Oriental Republic of Uruguay or Republica Oriental del Uruguay; accept Oriente; prompt on Orient or East or Eastern Bank or Eastern Province or Thirty-Three Easterners]):
    Uruguay's Colorado Party was named for the red armbands worn by soldiers of Fructuoso ("frook-too-OH-so") Rivera, who fought Brazil in a Cisplatine ("siss-PLAT-ine") "banda" named for this word. This Spanish word named 33 "patriots" who founded the Republic of Uruguay.
  Part 3 (ans: Bolivia [or Plurinational State of Bolivia or Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia or Puliwya Achka Aylluska Mamallaqta or Wuliwya Walja Suyunakana Marka; accept Peru-Bolivian Confederation or Confederacion Peru-Boliviana]):
    After its confederation with Peru, this country's Conservative Party favored silver and tin industrialists based in the Cordillera Oriental's ("cor-dee-YAIR-ah or-yen-TAHL's") cities of Potosi ("poh-toh-SEE") and Sucre ("SOO-cray").

[B4] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist wanted "even busy New Yorkers" to "take time to see what I see of [these things]" and said that "you write about [these things] as if I think and see what you think and see of [these things] - and I don't." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flowers [accept specific types of flowers, such as petunias]):
    Name these things, which that artist depicted at a large scale for the first time a year before painting Radiator Building. That depiction of these things was inspired by Paul Strand's close-cropping technique.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgia (Totto) O'Keeffe):
    This artist depicted flowers such as canna lilies and irises up close. This artist rejected the idea that her flower paintings resemble vaginas, an interpretation pushed by her husband, Alfred Stieglitz.
  Part 3 (ans: Mabel Dodge Luhan [or Mabel Evans Dodge Sterne Luhan or Mabel Ganson]):
    O'Keeffe wrote that "there is something unexplored about women that only a woman can explore" when asking this art critic to write about her flower paintings. This art patron founded an art colony in Taos ("touse"), New Mexico.

[B5] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Uruguayan independence movement, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thirty-Three Orientals or Easterners [or Treinta y Tres Orientales]):
    This militant group led by Juan Antonio Lavalleja and Manuel Oribe marched to Montevideo and convened the Florida Assembly, which declared Uruguayan allegiance to the United Provinces of Rio de la Plata.
  Part 2 (ans: Empire of Brazil):
    Uruguay and the United Provinces subsequently fought this empire in the Cisplatine War. Led by Pedro I, this empire agreed to Uruguayan independence following British diplomatic intervention.
  Part 3 (ans: Colorado Party [or Partido Colorado]):
    After independence, Uruguay was plagued by civil war between Oribe's National Party and this political party. Led by Fructuoso Rivera, this liberal political party won the ensuing civil war and remained a dominant force through the 20th century.

[B6] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: In the Bokai shinsaku manifesto, Toyoda Tenko influenced samurai to join shishi political activist groups and carry out premeditated attacks on these people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Westerners [accept foreigners or Europeans or white people; accept Christians]):
    Name these people, long excluded from entering Japan by the policy of sakoku until the arrival of the American Matthew Perry in 1853.
  Part 2 (ans: Bakumatsu):
    Adhering to the sonno-joi ideology, the shishi regularly attacked Westerners during this period, the last fourteen years of the Tokugawa shogunate.
  Part 3 (ans: Satsuma Domain [accept Satsuma Rebellion]):
    Most shishi operated in this regional domain, ruled by the Shimazu clan for much of the Tokugawa period. In this regional domain, Saigo Takamori led a rebellion of disaffected samurai against the Meiji government.

[B7] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about a particle who has lived in the bodies of many figures of state in The History and Adventures of an Atom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tobias George Smollett (The novel is The Expedition of Humphry Clinker.)):
    Name this author, whose medical experience informed a novel in which the hypochondriac Matthew Bramble complains about baths in many spa towns before finding his illegitimate son, who marries Winifred Jenkins.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    This author called Smollett "Smelfungus," which now means a complainer. This author also invented Hafen Slawkenbergius, the expert on noses, in a novel in which the title character's nose is flattened by Dr. Slop.
  Part 3 (ans: Tristram Shandy [or The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman]):
    This aforementioned novel by Sterne is narrated by a character who takes three volumes to reach his own birth, describes the "hobby horse" of his Uncle Toby, and is accidentally circumcised while peeing out a window.

[B8] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Maria lost her affection for Dimple after she read some sentimental novels -- making her realize the contrast between the "good sense of her books and the flimsiness" of his love letters. For 10 points each, answer some questions about the novels she reads.
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Charles Grandison [accept either underlined name; accept The History of Sir Charles Grandison]):
    Maria reads a novel about this character created by Samuel Richardson who rescues Harriet Byron from the clutches of Sir Hargrave Pollexfen.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    Maria also reads this author's novel A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy. This author also wrote a nine volume, extremely digressive novel about Tristram Shandy.

[B9] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A man in a novella by this author is struck by his realization that a daughter constantly mimics her mother's facial expressions and movements, and thus provides him a model for his imitation of a general. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carlos Fuentes (Those works are Aura and Terra Nostra.)):
    Name this author who also wrote a novel that opens with a king nicknamed El Senor constructing a massive palace and mausoleum to honor his family and himself, as he is the last in his line.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or Mexico; or United Mexican States]):
    Many of Fuentes's novels discuss the early 20th-century revolution in this North American country, where he spent most of his life.
  Part 3 (ans: Tristram Shandy [or The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman] (by Laurence Sterne)):
    The structure of Fuentes's Christopher Unborn is based on this novel, which Samuel Johnson said "did not last" because "Nothing odd will do long." This novel frequently digresses in relating the "Life and Opinions" of its title gentleman.

[B10] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Gustav Mahler named his first symphony after this author's novel Titan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean Paul [or Johann Paul Friedrich Richter; or Jean Paul Richter]):
    Name this early German Romantic novelist who used a French pseudonym. The twins Walt and Vult in his unfinished novel The Awkward Age inspired Robert Schumann's personas Florestan and Eusebius.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    Critics like Friedrich Schlegel often compared Jean Paul's digressive novels to the books of this Irish-born author, who became a European celebrity after writing Tristram Shandy.
  Part 3 (ans: Heinrich Heine):
    This German author loved Sterne, and considered him equal to Shakespeare. A blistering polemic by Karl Kraus blames this man for infecting German literature with the "feuilleton" [foy-TAWN] after his 1831 flight from Germany to Paris.

[B11] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character was fruitlessly pursued by Widow Wadman for eleven years before he realizes her attraction to him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Captain Toby Shandy [or Uncle Toby Shandy; prompt on Shandy]):
    Name this character whose injury at the Siege of Namur led him to his hobby of rebuilding the battle's fortifications in his garden with his servant Trim. When provoked by his brother Walter, he would whistle "Lillibullero," which his nephew described as an "Argumentum Fistulatorium."
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    Toby is the uncle of Tristram Shandy, the protagonist of a book by this writer.
  Part 3 (ans: "Alas, poor Yorick!"):
    In Tristram Shandy, these three words are inscribed on the grave-marker of a parson and are followed in the text by a solid black page. In a Shakespeare play, these words are followed by "I knew him... a fellow of infinite jest."

[B12] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This accident occurs because "nothing was well hung in our family," but its victim does not complain because "[t]housands suffer by choice what [he] did by accident." For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Tristram Shandy being circumsized accidentally by a falling window sash while urinating out of a window [either first or last name acceptable; must have character and injury, and prompt on either alone; accept any sort of injury to the penis or foreskin for "circumsized"]):
    Name this event, which happens to a five-year-old boy after the maid Susannah tells him there are no chamberpots available.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    Tristram Shandy was written by this pioneering author of A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy.
  Part 3 (ans: premature ejaculation [accept impotence; also accept any equivalent such as coming too quickly; prompt on "ejaculation" without an indication of improper timing]):
    Tristram Shandy's accident and his father Walter Shandy's problems with coitus interruptus echo the Restoration-era trend of poetry describing this problem. This problem forms the crux of Aphra Behn's "The Disappointment", when "The Blood forsook the kinder place."

[B13] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character frees up most of each month by devoting every first Sunday and Monday to the chores of ritually winding up the great family clock and having sex with his wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walter Shandy [or Walter Shandy; or Mr. Shandy; just "Shandy" is fine, but do not accept or prompt on "Tristram Shandy," who is his son]):
    Name this character who is largely absent during the first five years of his son's life, because he is hard at work writing an encyclopedia for the boy's education.
  Part 2 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    Walter Shandy picks the name Trismegistus for his son, but a clerical error inauspiciously changes it to Tristram, in a comic novel by this Irish novelist of A Sentimental Journey.
  Part 3 (ans: nose):
    Walter firmly believes that the shape of this body part is a key indicator of one's success in life, so he is devastated when Tristram's is squashed by Dr. Slop's forceps during birth.

[B14] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This man kept up a correspondence with Ignatius Sancho, a freed slave who became the first black man to vote in Britain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    Name this Anglican clergyman who published 45 sermons before his A Political Romance was burned by the church, leading him to take up a writing career.
  Part 2 (ans: Tristram Shandy [accept either underlined portion]):
    Sterne wrote a novel about the "Life and Opinions" of this man, who narrates his own birth in Books 2 and 3.
  Part 3 (ans: Yorick):
    Many of Sterne's sermons were written using this pseudonym, which is also the name of a parson who baptizes Tristram. Prince Hamlet laments the death of a character of this name with "infinite jest" while holding his skull.

[B15] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: On his deathbed, this character tells Eugenius that his head is so misshapen that even if, upon his recovery, miters were to rain down from the heavens, not one would fit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Parson Yorick [accept Reverend Yorick]):
    Name this character who travels with the young Le Fleur. He narrowly escapes imprisonment in the Bastille after the Count de B- mistakes him for the king's jester.
  Part 2 (ans: A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy):
    Parson Yorick narrates this travel novel that features a Tobias Smollett stand-in named Smellfungus and ends with the line, "So that when I stretch'd out my hand I caught hold of the fille de chambre's-"
  Part 3 (ans: Laurence Sterne):
    A Sentimental Journey is a novel by this author who created the characters of Dr. Slop, Uncle Toby, and Corporal Trim in his novel Tristram Shandy.

[B16] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: One member of this group, Fructuoso Rivera, would later perpetrate the Salsipuedes Genocide against the Charrua People. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 33 Immortals [or Treinta y tres Orientales; or Thirty-Three Easterners]):
    Name this group whose 1825 landing led to the Battle of Sarandi and which was led by Juan Jose Arevalo and Juan Antonio Lavalleja.
  Part 2 (ans: Uruguay):
    The 33 Immortals fought for the independence of this nation, which broke away from Brazil with help from Argentina. This country warred with another geographically close country when it teamed up with Argentina and Brazil to take on Paraguay in the War of the Triple Alliance.
  Part 3 (ans: Colorado Party [or Colored Party; or Red Party; or Colorados]):
    From independence until the 1950s, Uruguay was dominated by this political party that fought against the Blancos in several Uruguayan civil wars.

[B17] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Its protagonist refuses to reveal his poverty and gives food to beggars despite suffering from the title condition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hunger [or Sult]):
    Name this novel by Knut Hamsun, whose protagonist, a writer, nearly eats his pencil out of poverty.
  Part 2 (ans: Bjornsterne Martinius Bjornson):
    The lyrics to Norway's national anthem were written by this member of Norway's "Four Greats," author of plays like Beyond Human Power and In God's Way.
  Part 3 (ans: Out Stealing Horses):
    In this novel by Norwegian author Per Petterson, Trond Sander lives in isolation remembering how his father left him to join the Norwegian resistance against the Nazis.
