=== STOCK CLUES: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 52 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - In a story by this author, the protagonist's brother is arrested after four "cult" members steal a red Mercedes. [PWR]
  - Another story by this author describes a woman standing in a line outside the title building two days after burying her son Ugonna. [PWR]
  - This author of the short stories "Cell One" and "The American Embassy" also wrote a story that describes a certain country as (*) "give and take." That story by this author opens with the narrator winning a visa lottery and is written in second-person.
  - This author of a story beginning, "You thought everybody in America had a car and a gun," described how "men rule the world" in an essay she adapted from a TED talk.
  - For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of "The Thing Around Your Neck" and "We Should All Be Feminists." [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - This author described how society forces people to grow up to "silence themselves" and "[turn] pretense into an art form" in a work discussing the title group's "negative baggage." An essay by this author begins by mentioning a childhood friend who died in a plane crash and described the author as a certain word pejoratively. [PWR]
  - In another work, this author related writing characters who drank ginger beer despite not knowing what ginger beer was. [PWR]
  - This author mentioned John Lok's description of (*) "beasts with no houses" while recounting a college student's assumption that she couldn't use a stove.
  - Beyonce's "Flawless" sampled this author's description of a person who believes in the equality of the sexes from her talk "We Should All Be Feminists." For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of the TED Talk "The Danger of a Single Story" and the novel Americanah. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - In a novel by this author, an enraged businessman throws a Catholic missal at his son, but misses and breaks a shelf of his wife's ballerina figurines. [PWR]
  - In a story by this author, the title character writes the monograph Pacification with Bullets after connecting with her grandmother, a potter.
  - Beatrice poisons her abusive Catholic husband, Eugene, in the debut novel by this author. [PWR]
  - Grace takes a name meaning "My Name Will Not Be Lost" in this author's story "The (*) Headstrong Historian," which appears last in the collection The Thing Around Your Neck.
  - In a novel by this author, Barack Obama's presidential campaign rekindles the relationship between Blaine and the protagonist, who returns to her old lover Obinze  after shuttering her blog Raceteenth.
  - For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of Purple Hibiscus and Americanah. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - After a birthday party, one of this author's protagonists jealously notes that her lover and lover's ex eat fried chicken battered, not unbattered. [PWR]
  - An essay by this author calls masculinity "a hard, small cage" into which boys are put, and says gender "prescribes how we should be rather than recognizing how we are." In a novel by this author, a legal immigrant takes a cut of an illegal immigrant's salary for using the former's NHS card to avoid deportation from the U.K. [PWR]
  - This author's friend (*) Okoloma was the first to call her the title kind of person according to a TED talk by her.
  - In a novel by her, a blog called "Raceteenth" is written by Ifemelu,  who studies at Princeton before returning to Lagos.
  - For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of "We Should All Be Feminists" and Americanah. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - This author controversially withdrew her endorsement of a novel about a girl who develops the alternate selves Asughara and Saint Vincent titled Freshwater.
  - A novel by this author, in which a woman burns her lover's manuscript "The Basket of Hands," ends with the dedication for the book The World Was Silent When We Died.
  - A character created by this author tries to marry Cleotilde for a green card.
  - A novel by this author opens with the protagonist, who calls her old flame "Ceiling," going to Trenton to get her hair braided.
  - Richard Churchill pursues Olanna's twin in a novel by this author whose title references the flag of Biafra.
  - This author created Obinze and the author of the blog "Raceteenth," Ifemelu.
  - For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of Half of a Yellow Sun and Americanah. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria] (The novels are Chigozie Obioma's The Fishermen, Wole Soyinka's Chronicles from the Land of the Happiest People on Earth, and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's Americanah.)
  - In a novel from this non-Uruguayan country, four brothers behead a chicken as payback after a family friend reports their fishing at a cursed river to their mother. [PWR]
  - The "Gong of Four" opposes an organization that sells human body parts in a novel that satirizes this country as the "land of the happiest people on Earth." A character from this country who arranges a green card marriage with Cleotilde is called "The Zed" by his friends and "Ceiling" by an old girlfriend.
  - After her (*) Princeton fellowship ends, a character from this country writes about "The Hot White Ex" and "Professor Hunk" on her blog "Raceteenth" before returning to this country and reuniting with her high school flame, Obinze.
  - For 10 points, name this home country of Chigozie Obioma and Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - This author used the phrase "false-hearted and burdened with bathos" to describe an unpublished novel by another author, which is narrated in the first-person plural to describe the actions of Saint Vincent, Yshwa, and Asughara.
  - This author had her name removed from the promotional materials for the 2018 novel Freshwater years after mentoring its author at a writing workshop, as recounted in her essay "It Is Obscene." In a book-length essay, this author remembers scoring highest on a test to become class monitor, only for the teacher to give the title to a (*) boy. [PWR]
  - The non-binary author Akwaeke Emezi has publicly feuded with this writer over her transphobic comments.
  - Frustrated with white beauty standards, the protagonist of this author's best-known novel sets up a blog called "Raceteenth." For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of We Should All Be Feminists and Americanah. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - A short story by this author is set at a writers' retreat in Cape Town, organised by the creepy sexist Edward Campbell and set in the title location. [PWR]
  - In a different work, this author observed that the stories they wrote as a child featured blue-eyed white characters who ate apples. [PWR]
  - This author of the short story "Jumping Monkey Hill" wrote an essay which debunked "negative baggage" surrounding the title concept, such as (*) hating men and hating bras.
  - This author wrote the short story collection The Thing Around Your Neck and also penned "The Danger of a Single Story".
  - In a novel by this author, the blog Raceteenth discusses Ifemelu's experiences after moving to America to study, while Obinze is denied a visa.
  - For 10 points, name this author of We Should All Be Feminists, who wrote novels like Americanah and Half of a Yellow Sun. [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - This author wrote about Beatrice poisoning her abusive husband Eugene in a novel narrated by their daughter, Kambili. [PWR]
  - At the end of a novel by this author, a man who is deported before he finishes arranging his green-card marriage with Cleotilde is told "Ceiling, come in" when he shows up on the protagonist's doorstep. [PWR]
  - Several chapters of a novel by this author end with excerpts from The World Was Silent When we Died, a history by its protagonist's (*) houseboy. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, a Princeton fellow dumps her boyfriend Blaine and quits running her blog "Raceteenth." In a novel by this author of We Should All Be Feminists, Ifemelu reunites with Obinze after moving back to Lagos.
  - For 10 points, name this Nigerian author of Purple Hibiscus, Half of a Yellow Sun, and Americanah. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  - In one story by this author, the narrator thought her 4-year-old son had spilled In one story by this author, the narrator thought her 4-year-old son had spilled palm oil on himself when he was shot by soldiers, but can not recount the story when trying to obtain an asylum visa. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, the narrator's father responds to his father's death by scalding his children's feet with water.
  - This author of the story (+) The American Embassy wrote of Ade Coker, the editor of The Standard, dying from a mail bomb in the wake of a coup. [PWR]
  - The narrator of that novel is forbidden from visiting her grandfather because he is considered a pagan by her Catholic father. [PWR]
  - While visiting (*) Nsukka, where her aunt works as a university instructor, the narrator learns that her father died from poisoned tea.
  - For ten points, name this author whose Purple Hibiscus is set in her native Nigeria. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in a novel by this author realizes that he is a "figure in a story told by someone else. Not I" as he stays at a bed-and-breakfast in an English seaside town. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abdulrazak Gurnah):
    Name this Nobel-Prize-winning Tanzanian author who wrote about Saleh Omar seeking asylum in England in his novel By the Sea.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Obinze takes a job cleaning toilets after immigrating to England and separating from Ifemelu in Americanah, a novel by this author known for her TED Talk "The Danger of a Single Story."
  Part 3 (ans: Brick Lane):
    In this novel, the protagonist can only say "sorry" and "thank you" after first moving to London. That protagonist later sews clothing from materials brought to her from Chanu and Karim.

[B2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An heiress in this novel breaks up with Darnell after he scolds her for betraying her "Ugly American shit" by ordering a mimosa in Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream Count):
    Name this novel that recounts the lives of four immigrant women during and before the Covid-19 pandemic. The Guinean maid Kadiatou is assaulted while working at a hotel in this novel.
  Part 2 (ans: blogs [or blog posts; or blogging; prompt on online or on the Internet or on a website]):
    A character in Dream Count writes "For Men Only" in this form. In a novel by the same author whose text embeds works in this form, the narrator reunites with the professor Blaine at a conference about writing in this form "while Brown."
  Part 3 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This author of Dream Count and Americanah maintains a blog from Ifemelu's perspective on her website.

[B3] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A visit from his father spurs a Vietnamese-Australian man to leave Melbourne for one of these places in the autobiographical first story of Nam Le's The Boat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: writer's workshop [or writing workshop; accept the Iowa Writers' Workshop]):
    What sort of place names a Calcutta-based publisher founded by P. Lal? Eleanor Catton and Bharati Mukherjee are among the graduates of a prestigious MFA program at the University of Iowa named for these places.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmen Maria Machado):
    This author's memoir In the Dream House depicts her time at the Iowa Writers' Workshop amid an abusive relationship. This author of "The Husband Stitch" wrote a story told as 272 Law & Order: SVU episode synopses.
  Part 3 (ans: The Thing Around Your Neck (by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie) (The first story is "Jumping Monkey Hill.")):
    In a story from this collection, the writing workshop organizer Edward mocks a woman's "implausible" story about her father. In its title story, a girl becomes a waitress in Connecticut and starts dating a rich white boy after fleeing from her abusive visa sponsor uncle.

[B4] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A mother in this novel polishes figurines in a display case after each time she is beaten by her husband, which ultimately leads her to poison him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Purple Hibiscus):
    Name this novel in which Eugene's strict, authoritarian, Catholic control over his family is contrasted with his sister Ifeoma's household, where the narrator meets Father Amadi.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Purple Hibiscus is the debut novel of this Nigerian author. This author gained prominence with her subsequent novel, Half of a Yellow Sun, set during the Nigerian Civil War.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri [or Ben Golden Emuobowho Okri]):
    Growing up during the Nigerian Civil War also inspired this author's novel about the abiku Azaro, The Famished Road.

[B5] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The surgeon Kweku Sai tells of the birth of his daughter Sadie and the downfall of his career right before dying in a Taiye Selasi novel titled [this country] Must Go. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ghana [or Republic of Ghana] (The second novel is Homegoing by Yaa Gyasi.)):
    Name this country, the setting of a novel that centers on the descendants of Maame's daughters Effia and Esi, which ends with Marcus going to visit the dungeons.
  Part 2 (ans: Afro [or Afropolitanism; or Afrofuturism]):
    In her essay "Bye-Bye Babar," Selasi popularized a term combining this prefix with "politan." Mark Dery coined a term for a sci-fi-inspired literary movement with this prefix whose authors include Samuel R. Delany and Octavia Butler.
  Part 3 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Selasi's formulation of Afropolitanism inspired this author's novel about Ifemelu, who immigrates to the U.S., titled Americanah. This Nigerian-born author of "We Should All Be Feminists" also wrote Half a Yellow Sun.

[B6] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A man taking this action pretends to only know two words in English to Kevin Edelman, who steals his box of incense. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: immigrating to the United Kingdom [accept UK or Great Britain in place of "United Kingdom"; accept descriptions like moving to England or taking asylum in the UK; accept immigrating to London; prompt on partial answer] (The other novel is Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.)):
    Name this action taken by Saleh Omar at the beginning of the novel By the Sea. In another novel, Obinze takes a job cleaning toilets after he completes this action.
  Part 2 (ans: Abdulrazak Gurnah):
    By the Sea is by this Tanzanian-born novelist, who also explored stories of emigrants in exile in his novels Paradise and The Last Gift.
  Part 3 (ans: Canterbury (Gurnah himself also lives in Canterbury.)):
    The Tanzanian man Daud immigrates to this English city in Gurnah's novel Pilgrims Way. A group of pilgrims tell stories on their way to this city in a collection by Geoffrey Chaucer.

[B7] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a reference to this author, a relative of one of his characters is suggested as a second wife for a potentially impotent man in the story "The Headstrong Historian." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinualumogu Achebe] ("The Headstrong Historian" is by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. The novel is No Longer At Ease.)):
    Name this author who wrote about Jonathan paying off an officer to return a commandeered bicycle in "A Civil Peace." A novel by this author opens with the bribery trial of Obi, who tries to marry Clara.
  Part 2 (ans: Things Fall Apart):
    The girl from "The Headstrong Historian" and Obi are both related to Okonkwo, whose downfall after killing his adopted son Ikemefuna is chronicled in this Achebe novel.
  Part 3 (ans: schools [accept village schools or infant schools; accept "Chike's School Days"; accept answers indicating the grounds or property of a school]):
    The osu Chike remembers a song about being flogged in one of these places in a story by Achebe, who also wrote about Michael Obi's attempts to close the title "Dead Men's Path" because it cuts through one of these places.

[B8] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist reveals that her work is autobiographical after her writing workshop leader criticizes its lack of realism in this author's story "Jumping Monkey Hill." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Name this author who created a protagonist who dates a Yale professor named Blaine, who bonds with her over their shared passion for Barack Obama.
  Part 2 (ans: Akwaeke Emezi (The memoir is Dear Senthuran.)):
    A memoir by this other Nigerian writer recalls how their classmates of color were too intimidated to turn in any writing in their writing class. This author explored Ada's embodiment as an ogbanje in their 2018 debut Freshwater.
  Part 3 (ans: Heart of Darkness (Salesses's book is Craft in the Real World. Joseph Conrad wrote Heart of Darkness.)):
    Matthew Salesses's book on Westernized writing workshops examines this novel's racist description of African speech. This novel is the subject of Chinua Achebe's "An Image of Africa."

[B9] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Ugwu writes the book The World Was Silent While We Died. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Half of a Yellow Sun):
    Name this novel set during the Biafran War, in which Kainene forgives her twin sister Olanna for drunkenly seducing Richard, before disappearing after crossing enemy lines.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This Nigerian author wrote Half of a Yellow Sun, as well as Purple Hibiscus.
  Part 3 (ans: The Famished Road):
    In this Booker Prize-winning novel by a fellow Nigerian author, the spirit child Azaro visits Madame Koto's bar, while Azaro's father attempts to become a boxer. The Party of the Poor opposes the Party of the Rich in this novel.

[B10] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist's brother is sent to the title location after he joins a cult in this author's story "Cell One." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Name this author who wrote about two women hiding together in an abandoned shop during a riot in "A Private Experience," which is part of the short story collection The Thing Around Your Neck.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Headstrong Historian"):
    After four miscarriages, Nwamgba gives birth to a son who converts to Christianity in this short story by Adichie. Grace holds Nwamgba's hand on her deathbed at the end of this final entry in The Thing Around Your Neck.
  Part 3 (ans: Things Fall Apart):
    In "The Headstrong Historian," Nwamgba marries Obierika, who is a close friend of Okonkwo in this Chinua Achebe novel partially set in Umuofia.

[B11] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An extended essay by this author gives 15 tips to the mother of Chizalum, including to beware "Feminism Lite" and "teach her to love books." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Name this author of Dear Ijeawele who argues for the destigmatization of Feminism in her essay We Should All Be Feminists.
  Part 2 (ans: Beyonce [or Beyonce Giselle Knowles-Carter]):
    This artist sampled a TED talk by Adichie for her song "Flawless." Adichie later stated that lyrics by this artist such as "if you liked then you should have put a ring on it" were too male-centric to align with her idea of feminism.
  Part 3 (ans: Donald Trump (The book is the Art of the Deal.)):
    Adichie's story "The Arrangements" follows this man's wife as she thinks through how best to please him. Journalist Tony Schwartz regretted co-writing a book with this man.

[B12] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An affair in this novel produces the perpetually sick Baby, who wants to eat a roast lizard before she learns that doing so will make ants crawl around inside her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Half of a Yellow Sun):
    Name this novel that depicts rebels like Major Madu and the poet Okeoma. In this novel, Ugwu receives an education and learns to make jollof rice after he becomes the houseboy of the revolutionary intellectual Odenigbo.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Half of a Yellow Sun was written by this Nigerian author, who described growing up with mainly stories about British children in a TED Talk about "The Danger of a Single Story." She also wrote We Should All Be Feminists.
  Part 3 (ans: trans women [or transgender women or transgender people; prompt on LGBTQ or queer or nonbinary; prompt on women or equivalents] (Rowling has been called a trans-exclusionary radical feminist, or TERF.)):
    Adichie's former mentee Akwaeke Emezi criticized her brand of feminism for omitting these people. Adichie also defended J. K. Rowling, who has been called an "exclusionary radical feminist" for her views on these people.

[B13] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This anthology's title comes from a lecture by Maria W. Stewart which commands "no longer sleep or slumber, but distinguish yourselves." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Daughters of Africa):
    Name this anthology of female writers of African descent compiled by Margaret Busby. Its sequel, which adds the word "new" to its title, was published in 2019.
  Part 2 (ans: Federal Republic of Nigeria (Asma'u was the daughter of Usman dan Fodio, the founder of the Sokoto Caliphate. "We Should All Be Feminists" is by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.)):
    New Daughters of Africa opens with a poem by Nana Asma'u, whose father founded a state in this modern-day country. It also includes an excerpt from "We Should All Be Feminists," an essay by an author born in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Zadie Smith [or Sadie Smith]):
    Other authors featured in New Daughters of Africa include Yvonne Bailey and this daughter of hers, who wrote White Teeth.

[B14] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A writer claimed that one of these things came from Western literature, citing John Lok's ("Lok's, spelled L-O-K") claim that Africans were "beasts with no houses," to explain why her roommate assumed she didn't know how to use a stove. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: single story [or single stories; accept "The Danger of a Single Story"; prompt on story or stories]):
    Name these things whose power is explained using the word "nkali" in a speech titled for them. An author recalled how one of these abstract things shaped her view of Mexicans as "abject immigrants," a view shattered by her visit to Guadalajara ("gwa-da-la-HA-ra").
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This Nigerian author gave the TED Talk "The Danger of a Single Story," citing Chinua Achebe's idea of a "balance of stories" as a better view of the world. She also wrote Americanah.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Thing Around Your Neck"):
    After winning a visa lottery and coming to America, the protagonist of this Adichie story realizes that not everyone has big houses and cars like she thought, but she isn't sure if Americans are all just hiding their guns. This story titles a collection that includes "Jumping Monkey Hill."

[B15] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the author Chris Abani, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nigeria [or Federal Republic of Nigeria]):
    Abani was imprisoned three times by this country's government because the plot of one of his novels mirrored a later coup. A military tribunal in this country executed the author and environmental activist Ken Saro-Wiwa.
  Part 2 (ans: Invisible Man):
    Abani's novel GraceLand opens with the protagonist fast asleep after reading this book. The unnamed narrator of this Ralph Ellison novel has the title condition "since people refuse to see me."
  Part 3 (ans: TED Talks [accept Technology, Entertainment, and Design Conferences or TEDx for "TED"; prompt on speeches, lectures, or addresses] (the second TED Talk is by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and was sampled in the Beyonce song "***Flawless")):
    Abani recounts "stories about remarkable people" in an oral work of this type titled "On humanity." Another Nigerian author defined feminism as "a person who believes in the social, political, and economic equality of the sexes" in "We should all be feminists", which is one of these works that was turned into a book.

[B16] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A post on this blog describes a conversation in which "Professor Hunk" complains about the "oppression olympics" to a Jewish colleague. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Raceteenth" [or "Raceteenth or Various Observations About American Blacks (Those Formerly Known as Negroes) by a Non-American Black"]):
    Name this fictional blog written by Ifemelu, a Nigerian student at Princeton University. Another post on this blog was inspired by the two suitors of a hairdresser at the Trenton salon where Ifemelu has her hair braided.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie ("uh-DEE-chee-ay")):
    Ifemelu's teenage romance with Obinze in Lagos and struggles while at Princeton are outlined in Americanah, a 2013 novel by this Nigerian author of Purple Hibiscus.
  Part 3 (ans: Roots):
    In Americanah, one of Ifemelu's classes discusses the censorship of offensive words in the film adaptation of this Alex Haley novel that describes the enslavement of Kunta Kinte and his descendants in North America.

[B17] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book was adapted from an email sent to the mother of a girl named Chizalum, whom the author hopes "will be full of opinions" from "an informed, humane, and broad-minded place." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dear Ijeawele, or A Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions):
    Name this 2017 epistolary book subtitled "A Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions," which consists of a single long letter detailing how to raise a feminist daughter.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie ("uh-DEE-chee-ay")):
    Dear Ijeawele is by this author of the book-length essay We Should All Be Feminists and the novel Americanah.
  Part 3 (ans: TED Conferences LLC [or TED talks]):
    Adichie's "The Danger of a Single Story" is one of the most popular of the talks put on by this organization whose slogan is "Ideas worth spreading."

[B18] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's most recent essay collection is based on advice given to her friend on how to raise a baby girl as a feminist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Name this author of Dear Ijeawele who wrote about the relationship of Ifemelu and Obinze in Americanah. Her story "Birdsong" describes a woman remembering her unhappy affair with a married man while waiting in traffic.
  Part 2 (ans: Nigeria):
    Adichie is from this country, also home to Ben Okri and Chinua Achebe.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Headstrong Historian"):
    In this Adichie short story, an extension of Things Fall Apart, Nwamgba sends her son to a missionary school. The story flashes forward to her granddaughter Grace, who is inspired to change her name to Afamefuna.

[B19] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Nigerian anglophone literature extends far beyond Things Fall Apart. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buchi Emecheta):
    This Nigerian-born British author died in 2017. Her abusive husband burnt her first manuscript, after which she left him and published books centred on female experience like The Bride Price and The Joys of Motherhood.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This author's TED Talk "We Should All Be Feminists" was sampled on Beyonce's song "Flawless" and she won acclaim for her novel Americanah. She has recently been criticized for comments on transexuality.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    In a hotly anticipated exhibition boxing match later this year Evander Holyfield will fight Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a former Nigerian political party leader in a match officiated by this Nobel-winning playwright of "Death and the King's Horseman" and "The Lion and the Jewel."

[B20] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this novel's protagonists becomes famous for her blog "Raceteenth or Various Observations About American Blacks by a Non-American Black." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Americanah):
    Name this novel about Ifemulu and Obinze ["oh-bean-ZAY"], who travel to the US and London, respectively, before returning to their African homeland.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie ["ah-DEE-chee"]):
    Americanah was written by this female African author of Half of a Yellow Sun.
  Part 3 (ans: Federal Republic of Nigeria):
    The protagonists of Americanah are from this African country, as is Adichie. Another character from this country who has trouble adjusting upon his return here is Obi Okonkwo, the protagonist of No Longer at Ease.

[B21] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, Odenigbo and Olanna are forced to flee Nsukka due to a civil war, and Kainene begins a relationship with the English intellectual Richard Churchill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Name this author of a novel where Kainene disappears after opening a refugee camp, Half of a Yellow Sun.
  Part 2 (ans: Nigeria):
    Chimamanda Adichie is a prominent female author from this country, also the home to Chinua Achebe.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    This other Nigerian author wrote a novel concerning a child spirit named Azaro who lives with mortals and observes their daily lives, The Famished Road.

[B22] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a parent worries that a holiday pageant will teach children that Christmas does not count unless snow falls like it does in foreign countries. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Americanah):
    Name this novel depicting the romance of Obinze, who lives illegally in London, and Ifemelu, who immigrates to the United States, writes a blog called Raceteenth, and wins a fellowship at Princeton.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Americanah is a 2013 novel by this author, who also wrote about the teenaged Kambili Achike and her family in her novel Purple Hibiscus.
  Part 3 (ans: Federal Republic of Nigeria):
    Adichie was born in this country; she wrote about its civil war in her novel Half of a Yellow Sun and her play For Love of Biafra.

[B23] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about 21st century African literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This author's most recent novel, Americanah, documents the struggles between Ifemelu and Obinze, two teenagers who fell in love and move to the U.S. She has also written the short story collection The Thing Around Your Neck.
  Part 2 (ans: James Ngugi or Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    Ever since this author abandoned English to produce books in his native Kikuyu tongue, he has written a fantasy novel set in Aburiria titled Wizard of the Crow; his works in English include A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    This magical realist wrote about a prince who journeys to find ultimate mysteries in his novel Starbook. He had earlier written a novel about a "spirit child" named Azaro in The Famished Road.

[B24] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer's most recent novel, Ifemelu authors a blog about race and falls in love with Obinze. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Identify this author of Americanah, who had earlier written about the sisters Olanna and Kainene in Half of a Yellow Sun.
  Part 2 (ans: Nigeria):
    Adichie hails from this nation, also the home of the author of Arrow of God, Chinua Achebe.
  Part 3 (ans: Ken Saro-Wiwa):
    Another Nigerian author is this creator of the short story collection A Forest of Flowers who wrote about the Biafran War in On a Darkling Plane.

[B25] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the liberal Aunty Ifeoma appeals to the Catholicism of Eugune to convince him to let his children visit Aokpe and see the site of an apparition of the Virgin Mary. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Purple Hibiscus):
    Name this novel about 15-year old Kambili and her brother Jaja, whose time away from home helps them mend their family during a military coup.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Purple Hibiscus was written by this modern author who also wrote about two sisters Olanna and Kainene who get caught up in their country's civil war in Half of a Yellow Sun.
  Part 3 (ans: Nigeria):
    This African nation is the birthplace of Adichie. It's also the birthplace of the people who wrote the following books: Jagua Nana, Jagua Nana's Daughter, and Anthills of the Savannah.
