=== STOCK CLUES: Oklahoma! ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 19 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 14 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Oklahoma!
  - John Wilson's 2023 recording of this musical was the first complete recording of the original orchestration by Robert Russell Bennett.
  - Miles Davis's album Steamin' opens with a cover of a song from this musical in which a character describes "the slickest gig you'll ever see." A character in this musical imagines "long tangled hair" which "falls across my face" in a song in which he vows to win a bride, "Lonely Room." One of the female lead's love interests sings "chicks and ducks and geese better scurry" before the imagined "surrey with the fringe on top." Agnes de Mille choreographed this musical's "dream ballet" in which Laurey "makes up her mind" about Jud and Curly.
  - For 10 points, name this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical titled after a US state. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Agnes de Mille [or Agnes George de Mille] (The first ballet is Three Virgins and a Devil. The "dream ballet" is from Oklahoma!.)
  - This choreographer set a Boccaccio-inspired libretto to music from Respighi's Ancient Airs and Dances for a ballet in which this choreographer played a "priggish" virgin who meets the Devil.
  - In the premiere of a ballet by this choreographer, Alicia Alonso danced a pas de deux as a woman called the "Accused." After watching this choreographer receive 22 curtain calls at a ballet's premiere, a songwriting duo invited this dancer to choreograph a "dream ballet" in which Laurey "Makes Up Her Mind." This choreographer adapted the tale of Lizzie Borden in her ballet Fall River Legend.
  - This choreographer asked the composer of Billy the Kid to score a ballet in which a "Hoe-Down" is danced by cowgirls.
  - For 10 points, Aaron Copland scored what choreographer's ballet Rodeo ? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 DRAMA (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: the surrey with the fringe on top from Oklahoma! (prompt on descriptions of a bike) 
  - In an interview, Bob Craig remarked that the writer of a song about this object was inspired to employ "clip-clop" while writing a melody that "was based on the repetition of one note." That song about this object was adapted into a jazz standard by Ahmal Jamal, who inspired a popular Miles Davis recording. [PWR]
  - In one reinspired performance, one character sings about this object while playing an acoustic guitar; that performance includes a slowed down section where he sings "don't you wish it would go on forever?" In a song about this object, one character sings (*) "the wheels are yeller, the upholstery's brown, the dashboard's genuine leather," before a character asks if one of this object's features is made of silk. [PWR]
  - "Chicks and ducks and geese better scurry" when Curly takes Laurey to go out in, for 10 points, what object central to an Oklahoma! song? [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 ILLIAC (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Oklahoma!
  - In this musical, a group of women say "all right boys.
  - Revolve!" after men shout "we gotta start a revolution!" when they hear a story about a marriage forced at gunpoint.
  - A long ballet dream sequence in this musical begins after a character drinks the Elixir of Egypt and features the song "Out of My Dreams." A woman in this musical agrees to go to the dance with (*) Jud Fry before the male lead buys a "Surrey with the Fringe on Top." This musical opens and closes with the song "Oh What a Beautiful Mornin'." For 10 points, name this Rodgers & Hammerstein musical about Curly and Laurey living in the title Western territory. [PWR,GIVE]

[T5] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Oklahoma! [accept OK or the Sooner State; prompt on "Cherokee" or "Kiowa Nations"]
  - In this state, one character sees a cricket fill up the moon the night before visiting the grave of his grandmother, with whom he once saw the Tai-me bundle. [PWR]
  - "Known people" from this state include a girl as pretty as a "black colt" and one swung by a "Texas boy" during a squaredance to "Chicken Reel" before a planned Farmers' Association Riot.
  - An episode of Oprah on "saved lives" leads a law intern from this state to demand a woman with "head rights" here justify her adoption of a catatonic orphan she is handed outside a cafe in this state when her car breaks down on the way to Tucson.
  - (*) N.
  - Scott Momaday's The Way to Rainy Mountain chronicles his Nation's migration from Montana to this birth state of a Native orphan named Turtle in Barbara Kingsolver's Pigs in Heaven and The Bean Trees.An actual turtle is flipped over by a truck in this state after a migrant meets the preacher Jim Casy.
  - For 10 points, name this home state of the Joad family in The Grapes of Wrath. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Starkeeper lets Billy Bigelow watch his daughter Louise grow up in one of these sequences during the number "Billy makes a Journey." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dream ballets [prompt on dreams or dream sequences; prompt on ballets or dance breaks]):
    Name these sequences common in Golden Age musicals. In another musical, one of these sequences convinces Laurey that she should marry Curly over the irritable farmhand Jud.
  Part 2 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    Though it didn't invent them, the popularization of dream ballets in Broadway is credited to this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, which describes the wind "sweepin' down the plain" in the title state.
  Part 3 (ans: Agnes de Mille):
    This dancer choreographed the dream ballets for Oklahoma! and Carousel. This choreographer worked with Aaron Copland on the ballet Rodeo.

[B2] 2024 ACF Fall (2024) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After achieving stardom for playing Luke Skywalker, Mark Hamill portrayed a pioneer of American musical theater with this last name in a 1985 production titled for him and Edward Harrigan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hart [accept Lorenz Hart; accept Rodgers and Hart; accept Tony Hart; accept Harrigan and Hart; accept Harrigan 'n Hart; prompt on Anthony J. Cannon with "what last name did he work under?"]):
    Give this last name of another lyricist who preceded Oscar Hammerstein as the lyricist of Richard Rodgers. That lyricist with this surname collaborated with Rodgers on songs like "The Lady Is a Tramp."
  Part 2 (ans: Gene Kelly [or Eugene Curran Kelly]):
    Rodgers and Hart's later musical Pal Joey starred this actor who played Jerry in An American in Paris. This actor held an umbrella while dancing through puddles to the title song of his 1952 movie Singin' in the Rain.
  Part 3 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    Rodgers' first musical after switching lyricists from Hart to Hammerstein was this musical, in which the title American state is described as "where the wind comes sweeping down the plain."

[B3] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Daniel Fish's 2019 Broadway revival of this musical served cornbread and chili to audience members during intermission. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    Name this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical about Curley's attempts to woo Laurey, much to the chagrin of the incel farmhand Jud.
  Part 2 (ans: "Oh What a Beautiful Morning"):
    In this opening number from Oklahoma!, Curley energetically proclaims that he's "got a beautiful feeling / everything's going [his] way." The melody of this song features prominently in the musical's "dream ballet."
  Part 3 (ans: she's paralyzed from the waist-down [accept "she uses a wheelchair" and equivalents]):
    In the 2019 broadway revival, the promiscuous Ado Annie was played by Ali Stoker, a performer with this condition. Stoker subsequently became the first person with this condition to win a Tony.

[B4] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A square dance occurs in this musical during the song "The Farmer and the Cowboy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    Name this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical choreographed by Agnes de Mille. Curly sings "Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin'" in this show, named for a location "where the wind comes sweepin' down the plain."
  Part 2 (ans: barefoot [accept clear knowledge equivalents; that film is The Barefoot Contessa]):
    In John Heginbotham's choreography for the 2019 revival of Oklahoma!, performers dance in this fashion during the dark dream sequence. Isadora Duncan often danced in this fashion which titles a film about the cabaret dancer Maria Vargas.

[B5] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the fine art of flyover country, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    A fifteen-minute "dream ballet" in which Laurey struggles to choose between Jud and Curly is one of the most famous features of this musical, which also contains the songs "It's a Scandal! It's a Outrage!" and "The Surrey with the Fringe on Top".
  Part 2 (ans: Mount Rushmore National Memorial):
    Idaho-born sculptor Gutzon Borglum is most famous for collaborating with his son Lincoln on this massive sculpture in the Black Hills of South Dakota.
  Part 3 (ans: cars [or automobiles; or Cadillacs]):
    Jim Reinders created a replica of Stonehenge near Alliance, Nebraska made entirely of these objects, painted gray. Ten of a certain kind of them are half-buried in the ground at a namesake "Ranch" near Amarillo, Texas.
