=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Oklahoma! ===
(Questions where 'Oklahoma!' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 6 found, 29 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 13 found, 38 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2024 TELEOLOGY (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: corn [accept cornbread or "Jimmy Crack Corn"; accept corn muffins accept turn off the popcorn machine; prompt on muffins]
  - A 2011 James Wolcott article is the origin of a phrase mentioning this food used by some Broadway purists to lament the glut of spin-off musicals.
  - In Of Thee I Sing, John P.
  - Wintergreen declines to marry the beauty queen Diana because he's already in love with his secretary since she knows how to make a dish with this food.
  - Aunt Eller makes a baked good named after this food instead of churning butter in the opening of the 2019 revival of Oklahoma!
  - This food appears in one of the two titles of a Dan Emmet minstrel show song possibly written as a mock lament given by a slave for his master killed in a horse-riding accident; that song is also known as (*) "Blue Tailed Fly." An opening number titled for this crop narrates God creating a cow and t
  - For 10 points, many puns about what crop appeared in the 2023 musical Shucked?

[TM2] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: movie musicals [or Hollywood musicals; or Disney musicals; prompt on Disney film] (The film in the first clue is Gold Diggers of 1933. The film in the second clue is 42nd Street.)
  - In an uncredited role in a Great Depression-era comedy in this genre, Etta Moten demands that the audience "remember my forgotten man." In a pre-code film considered the first modern film in this genre, Busby Berkeley's camera moves between the legs of dozens of women.
  - Audrey Hepburn wore an iconic black polo neck as Jo Stockton in a film in this genre titled Funny Face.
  - Alan (*) Menken worked on many animated films in this genre during a company's 1990s "Renaissance," including one whose main character declares, "I want adventure in the great wide somewhere." One of MGM's films in this genre that stars Judy Garland debuted "Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas" a
  - Louis.
  - For 10 points, name this genre of films such as Oklahoma! and Beauty and the Beast.

[TM3] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Rodgers
  - The Garrick Gaieties, which features the popular song "Manhattan", was this composer's breakout musical with his long-time collaborator Lorenz Hart.
  - This composer was the first person to achieve an EGOT; he also received a Pulitzer Prize for Drama for one of his musicals about American soldiers and the local inhabitants of an (*) island set during World War II.
  - In 1990, the 46th Street Theater in New York was renamed to honor this man.
  - This composer wrote the scores for some of the most successful musicals of the 40s and 50s, including Oklahoma!, South Pacific, The King and I, and The Sound of Music.
  - For ten points, name this musical theater composer who famously collaborated with the lyricist Oscar Hammerstein.

[TM4] 2023 DRAMA (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: the surrey with the fringe on top from Oklahoma! (prompt on descriptions of a bike) 
  - In an interview, Bob Craig remarked that the writer of a song about this object was inspired to employ "clip-clop" while writing a melody that "was based on the repetition of one note." That song about this object was adapted into a jazz standard by Ahmal Jamal, who inspired a popular Miles Davis re
  - In one reinspired performance, one character sings about this object while playing an acoustic guitar; that performance includes a slowed down section where he sings "don't you wish it would go on forever?" In a song about this object, one character sings (*) "the wheels are yeller, the upholstery's
  - "Chicks and ducks and geese better scurry" when Curly takes Laurey to go out in, for 10 points, what object central to an Oklahoma! song?

[TM5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Rodgers [or Rogers; or Will Rogers; or Roy Rogers; or Kenny Rogers; or Richard Rodgers; or Jimmie Rodgers]
  - (Note to players: the surname in question has variant spellings; any correct spelling or pronunciation is acceptable.) A Cherokee entertainer with this surname, who titles a Cy Coleman musical with lyrics by Comden and Green, quipped that he never met a man he didn't like.
  - With her husband who adopted this surname, Dale Evans wrote the theme song "Happy Trails." This adopted surname of the "King of the Cowboys" was shared by the leader of The First Edition, who dueted with Dolly Parton on "Islands in the Stream." Lyricist Lorenz Hart abandoned a composer with this sur
  - The "Father of Country Music" with this surname wrote a series of 13 "blue yodels." A Kenny with this surname's signature was "The Gambler." For 10 points, a composer with what surname co-created "People Will Say We're in Love" and "Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin'" for the musical Oklahoma! with lyrici

[TM6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Answer: Rodeo; or, the Courting at Burnt Ranch [prompt on "Hoe-down"]
  - This work ends with a series of rapid D quarter notes, to one F sharp, and three D notes two octaves lower, accompanied by timpani strikes.
  - Rodgers and Hammerstein were allegedly so impressed by the choreography of this work that they invited the choreographer to work on Oklahoma!.
  - A theme from this work was taken from fiddler William H.
  - Stepp's version of "Bonaparte's Retreat" as transcribed by Ruth Crawford Seeger.
  - A "noisily, early rag-time" piano opens this ballet's third movement (*) "Ranch House Party", which is omitted in the orchestral "Four Dance Episodes".
  - Choreographed by Agnes de Mille, this ballet includes the Champion Roper dancing with the Cowgirl during the "Saturday Night Waltz".
  - For 10 points, what Aaron Copland ballet includes "Buckaroo Holiday" and "Hoe-down"?

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Act II of a musical by this composer, the biracial woman Julie LaVerne thinks of her white ex-husband while singing "Bill," which this composer had cut from his musical Oh, Lady! Lady!! For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jerome Kern [or Jerome David Kern]):
    Name this composer of the standard "All the Things You Are" and the musical Show Boat.
  Part 2 (ans: P. G. Wodehouse ("WOOD-house") [or Sir Pelham Grenville Wodehouse]):
    Most of Kern's early musicals, like Oh, Lady! Lady!! and Oh, Boy!, had lyrics by Guy Bolton and this fiction author, both of whom wrote the original lyrics for Cole Porter's Anything Goes.
  Part 3 (ans: Oscar Hammerstein II):
    This lyricist removed classical allusions and modified the rhyme scheme of Wodehouse's lyrics to "Bill" for the version in Show Boat. This lyricist was a co-creator of South Pacific and Oklahoma!

[BM2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Starkeeper lets Billy Bigelow watch his daughter Louise grow up in one of these sequences during the number "Billy makes a Journey." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dream ballets [prompt on dreams or dream sequences; prompt on ballets or dance breaks]):
    Name these sequences common in Golden Age musicals. In another musical, one of these sequences convinces Laurey that she should marry Curly over the irritable farmhand Jud.
  Part 2 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    Though it didn't invent them, the popularization of dream ballets in Broadway is credited to this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical, which describes the wind "sweepin' down the plain" in the title state.
  Part 3 (ans: Agnes de Mille):
    This dancer choreographed the dream ballets for Oklahoma! and Carousel. This choreographer worked with Aaron Copland on the ballet Rodeo.

[BM3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Paul Robeson recommended a famous version of this musical number that notes "I get weary and sick of trying / I'm tired of living and scared of dying." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Ol' Man River"):
    Name this show tune from Show Boat sung by the stevedore Joe, which compares the flowing Mississippi to the struggles of African Americans in the South.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar Hammerstein II [or Oscar Greeley Clendenning Hammerstein II]):
    The lyrics to "Ol' Man River" were written by this lyricist, who worked on Oklahoma! with frequent collaborator Richard Rodgers.
  Part 3 (ans: Florenz Ziegfeld [or Florenz Edward Ziegfeld Jr.]):
    Show Boat, which was one of the first Broadway shows to regularly employ Black actors, was first produced by this Broadway impresario who conceived a series of theatrical revues he called his namesake Follies.

[BM4] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This lyric soprano won the 1998 Tony Award for a Featured Actress for her role as Sarah in Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens' musical Ragtime. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Audra McDonald):
    Name this actress who holds the record for performance Tony wins at six. She also won a Tony for performing Ruth Younger against Diddy's Walter Younger in the 2004 revival of A Raisin in the Sun.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II [accept in either order]):
    McDonald won her first Tony for her performance as Carrie in this prolific songwriting duo's musical Carousel. This composer-lyricist duo created The King and I and Oklahoma!
  Part 3 (ans: Man of La Mancha):
    Brian Stokes Mitchell, who originated the role of Coalhouse Walker Jr. in Ragtime, went on to star in a revival of this musical. He performed this musical's song "The Impossible Dream" at the 2002 Tonys.

[BM5] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: A 1970s PSA created by this group featured Italian-American actor Iron Eyes Cody, who played the title "Crying Indian." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Keep America Beautiful):
    Identify this industry advocacy group whose 1950s PSAs popularized the term "litterbug."
  Part 2 (ans: "Don't mess with Texas!"):
    A 1980s anti-littering campaign in Texas featuring Stevie Ray Vaughan and the Dallas Cowboys popularized this slogan, inspiring less successful copycat slogans like Oklahoma's "Don't lay that trash on Oklahoma!"
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Bird Johnson [or Claudia Alta Johnson or Claudia Alta Taylor]):
    This person's advocacy for anti-littering and highway beautification initiatives led to the passage of the Highway Beautification Act. This person declared "where flowers bloom, so does hope."

[BM6] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Description acceptable. A musical theater company that performs in this manner collaborated with the LA Philharmonic to develop a 2022 production of Fidelio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: performed in American Sign Language [or performed by deaf actors, or performed for deaf audiences; accept answers like the performance is made accessible to deaf viewers; prompt on performed in another language or bilingual performances]):
    Name this manner in which the 2003 Broadway revival of Big River was performed. Musical theater performances of this type feature pairs of actors in the same role to expand their viewing audience.
  Part 2 (ans: Spring Awakening):
    Deaf West Theatre earned a Best Revival Tony nomination for its production of this musical based on a Frank Wedekind play. Wendla dies from a botched abortion in this musical after having sex with Melchior in a hayloft.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Rodgers AND Oscar Hammerstein II [or Richard Charles Rodgers AND Oscar Greeley Clendenning Hammerstein II]):
    The first wheelchair-using actor to perform on Broadway, Ali Stroker, appeared in Deaf West's Spring Awakening and in the 2019 revival of this duo's musical Oklahoma!. This duo wrote The Sound of Music.

[BM7] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Daniel Fish's 2019 Broadway revival of this musical served cornbread and chili to audience members during intermission. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    Name this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical about Curley's attempts to woo Laurey, much to the chagrin of the incel farmhand Jud.
  Part 2 (ans: "Oh What a Beautiful Morning"):
    In this opening number from Oklahoma!, Curley energetically proclaims that he's "got a beautiful feeling / everything's going [his] way." The melody of this song features prominently in the musical's "dream ballet."
  Part 3 (ans: she's paralyzed from the waist-down [accept "she uses a wheelchair" and equivalents]):
    In the 2019 broadway revival, the promiscuous Ado Annie was played by Ali Stoker, a performer with this condition. Stoker subsequently became the first person with this condition to win a Tony.

[BM8] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A square dance occurs in this musical during the song "The Farmer and the Cowboy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oklahoma!):
    Name this Rodgers and Hammerstein musical choreographed by Agnes de Mille. Curly sings "Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin'" in this show, named for a location "where the wind comes sweepin' down the plain."
  Part 2 (ans: barefoot [accept clear knowledge equivalents; that film is The Barefoot Contessa]):
    In John Heginbotham's choreography for the 2019 revival of Oklahoma!, performers dance in this fashion during the dark dream sequence. Isadora Duncan often danced in this fashion which titles a film about the cabaret dancer Maria Vargas.

[BM9] 2018 Delta Burke (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Agnes de Mille served in this capacity for the musical Oklahoma! For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: choreographer):
    What term is used for the person who designs the dance sequences for a musical work?
  Part 2 (ans: John Cage):
    Merce Cunningham was a dancer who choreographed many works by this man, his life partner. This man composed the "silent piece," 4'33' [four thirty-three].
  Part 3 (ans: Vaslav Nijinsky):
    This male Russian dancer choreographed ballets in which he appeared, including Afternoon of a Faun and Rite of Spring.

[BM10] 2018 ACF Fall (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 1965 production of this ballet at the Royal Opera House revitalized Margot Fonteyn's career. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Romeo and Juliet):
    Name this ballet by Sergei Prokofiev. It includes a "Dance of the Knights" that Prokofiev later used in the Montagues and Capulets section of his Suite No. 2, titled after the feuding families in this ballet's source material.
  Part 2 (ans: dreams [or The Dream; or dream ballet]):
    The work of Shakespeare also inspired a Frederick Ashton ballet titled for one of these events. In musical theatre, atmospheric sections focused on dancing are known as this sort of "ballet," popularized by Agnes de Mille's choreography for Oklahoma!
  Part 3 (ans: Bolshoi Ballet):
    Christopher Wheeldon, the choreographer of an adaptation of Shakespeare's Winter's Tale, is noted for his collaborations with this Moscow-based ballet company. With the Mariinsky Ballet, this company is considered the most prestigious in Russia.

[BM11] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This ballet's choreographer named it after a line from Hart Crane's poem "The Dance." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Appalachian Spring):
    Name this ballet in which newlyweds build a farmhouse but are interrupted by a revivalist and her followers, with set design by Isamu Noguchi.
  Part 2 (ans: Martha Graham):
    This American choreographer of Appalachian Spring emphasized "contraction and release" in her style of modern dance.
  Part 3 (ans: Agnes de Mille):
    This friend of Martha Graham staged Aaron Copland's ballet Rodeo as a romance between the "Cowgirl" and the "Roper." She primarily choreographed musicals such as Oklahoma! and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.

[BM12] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The primary theme of this ballet's final section was based on fiddler William Hamilton Stepp's rendition of the folk song "Bonaparte's Retreat". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rodeo (ROH-dee-oh or roh-DAY-oh)):
    Name this 1942 ballet, sections of which have such titles as "Buckaroo Holiday" and "Saturday Night Waltz". At its climax, its tomboyish protagonist shares a kiss with the Champion Roper.
  Part 2 (ans: Aaron Copland (KOPE-land)):
    Rodeo was scored by this American composer, whose other popular ballets include Billy the Kid and the Martha Graham collaboration Appalachian Spring.
  Part 3 (ans: Agnes de Mille [or Agnes George de Mille]):
    On the strength of her choreography for Rodeo, this woman was hired to choreograph the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical Oklahoma!.

[BM13] 2015 Delta Burke (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: John Coltrane's fourteen minute version of this song opens and titles one of his records. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: "My Favorite Things"):
    Name this song from a 1959 musical whose titular items include "Cream colored ponies and crisp apple strudels" along with "Girls in white dresses with blue satin sashes."
  Part 2 (ans: Maria Rainer):
    "My Favorite Things" is sung by this protagonist of The Sound of Music, whose fellow nuns sing a song in which they wonder how to solve a problem like her.
  Part 3 (ans: Oscar Hammerstein):
    The Sound of Music included music by Richard Rodgers and lyrics by this frequent collaborator, who also worked with Rodgers on the musicals Oklahoma! and Show Boat.
