=== STOCK CLUES: Richard Avedon ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Avedon
  - A book by this artist ends with blurry photographs of Santa Monica beach, including one where a man lifts a child into the air with one hand. [PWR]
  - Marvin Israel collaborated with this artist on a 1967 "Master Class" and a 1970 exhibition of the "Minneapolis Portfolio." This artist documented the Civil Rights era in a collaboration with high school friend James Baldwin titled Nothing Personal. [PWR]
  - A museum in Fort Worth commissioned a book by this photographer which depicts a man covered in bees and many rough subjects, such as (*) cowboys, wearing overalls. [PWR]
  - This artist, who made four solarized psychedelic portraits of the Beatles, went to the Cirque d'Hiver to photograph a model in a Dior evening dress whose hand appears to touch a trunk.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of In the American West and Dovima With Elephants, a pioneering New York fashion photographer. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Avedon [accept Richard Avedon or Jacob Israel Avedon]
  - A series of eight photographs of a person with this surname were described as "anatomies of aging" by New Yorker columnist Janet Malcolm, and appeared in a 1974 Marvin Israel-curated exhibition at the MoMA . [PWR]
  - An artist with this surname photographed a husband and wife with dour expressions shortly after telling them that his taxi had just run over a pug. [PWR]
  - That artist with this surname documented his father's final years through a series of photos taken in Sarasota, Florida from 1969 to 1973. [PWR]
  - In one photograph, that artist with this surname depicted a (*) woman dressed entirely in black, save for a white sash, standing between a pair of circus elephants, while in another photograph, he captured a surprisingly somber woman in a black sequin dress glancing downward. [PWR]
  - That photographer with this surname included an image of a girl in overalls on the cover of his photobook In the American West.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of fashion photographer Richard. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man published a critique on American society with his highschool classmate James Baldwin entitled Nothing Personal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    Name this man who photographed "Boyd Fortin, Thirteen Year Old Rattlesnake Skinner" in his photobook In the American West.
  Part 2 (ans: Yves Saint-Laurent [or YSL; or Yves Henri Donat Mathieu-Saint-Laurent]):
    Richard Avedon, a pioneer in fashion photography, photographed the model Dovima surrounded by elephants in a dress designed by this Algerian-born apprentice of Christian Dior.
  Part 3 (ans: Vogue):
    In 2023, this largest fashion magazine and longtime employer of Avedon created the photobook "Avedon 100" to commemorate the centennial of his birth. Anna Wintour has edited this magazine since 1988.

[B2] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an artwork in this medium by Norman Seeff, a highway under clouds appears inside the outline of the body of a woman smoking a cigarette, with snow-covered trees in the background. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: album covers [or cover art]):
    Name this medium, which Alex Steinweiss used to make over 2,500 artworks. Carl Schenkel designed an artwork in this medium that depicts a man with a fish for a head wearing a tall black hat and raising his hand.
  Part 2 (ans: Keith Haring [or Keith Allen Haring]):
    Album covers by this artist include outlines of dancing figures, which are ubiquitous in his art. This artist who died of AIDS in 1990 made a mural called Crack Is Wack and started his career making graffiti.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    This artist created the album cover for Teddy Pendergrass's It's Time for Love and took a series of psychedelically colored photographs of The Beatles, including one with John Lennon wearing swirling glasses.

[B3] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Iain Macmillan had only ten minutes to take photographs of this group, a member of which appears walking barefoot to the right across a zebra crossing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Beatles):
    Name this band whose members pose in a Pop Art collage of historical figures on the cover of their album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    This fashion photographer used solarization to create psychedelic portraits of The Beatles. This creator of the collection In the American West captured the model Dovima in a Dior dress posing with elephants.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    This photographer depicted John Lennon embracing his wife Yoko Ono on the day he was killed. A Vanity Fair cover by this woman depicts its subject in a white dress with the caption "Call Me Caitlyn."

[B4] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer produced a set of psychedelic portraits of the Beatles, in which Ringo holds a bemused dove. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    Name this American photographer, known for his work for Vogue in the 1970s, as well as portrait collections like In The American West. His style was minimalist, with subjects often shot head-on against a white background.
  Part 2 (ans: Andy Warhol):
    One of Avedon's most notable "mural groupings" of portraits features this New York-based pop-art pioneer alongside members of his studio, The Factory, several of whom are incongruously naked.
  Part 3 (ans: elephants):
    An iconic 1955 Avedon photograph features the model Dovima in a black and white evening gown, touching two of these animals. These animals are paired with swans in a surrealist painting.

[B5] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer's series "In Memory of the Late Mr. and Mrs. Comfort" shows model Nadja Auermann and a skeleton as a high society couple. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    Name this fashion and portrait photographer for The New Yorker, whose works feature celebrities such as Marilyn Monroe in black and white against plain backgrounds. He also created the collection In the American West.
  Part 2 (ans: Annie Liebovitz):
    Richard Avedon inspired this photographer, who has taken many photos of famous people for Vanity Fair. She photographed Yoko Ono with John Lennon on the day he was assassinated.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Depression):
    Let Us Now Praise Famous Men is a book of photography by James Agee and Walker Evans showing the lives of farmers during this period. Dorothea Lange's Migrant Mother was taken to illustrate this period.

[B6] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist frequently made gigantic prints that were several feet tall, such as the portraits of cowboys, drifters, and others he collected for the exhibit In the American West. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    Identify this fashion photographer, who took iconic shots of Marilyn Monroe in May 1957 and December 1958. His photo "Dovima with Elephants" contrasts a fashion model wearing Dior with two pachyderms.
  Part 2 (ans: Andy Warhol):
    Avedon shot a 1969 series of photos of this artist and members of his silver-tinted New York studio; the series included pictures of so-called "superstars" that were omnipresent in this artist's professional and social life.
  Part 3 (ans: The Beatles):
    In 1967, Avedon created the famous "psychedelic" portraits of members of this music group; two years earlier, his photo of one of its members wearing a laurel wreath was captioned by the Daily Mail as "Hail, Ringo."

[B7] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This book of photographs was assembled after the director of the Amon Carter Museum encouraged the artist to take more images like his one of a ranch foreman from Montana. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: In the American West):
    Name this book of portrait photographs whose cover features a girl in overalls. Its best-known images include a photograph of a hairless man covered in bees, and one of a blond boy holding a gutted snake.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    In the American West was created by this American fashion and portrait photographer. This man also took some images of the model Dovima with elephants, and of Nastassja Kinski with a python coiled around her body.
  Part 3 (ans: Audrey Hepburn [accept Audrey Kathleen Ruston]):
    Avedon provided both inspiration and actual photos for Funny Face, which starred this actress. Avedon created over-exposed images that contrast odd black shapes with the face of this actress, who played Holly Golightly.

[B8] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about photographic chronicles of American life, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Japanese-Americans [or Nikkei Amerikajin]):
    Ansel Adams photographed girls practicing calisthenics in his series Born Free and Equal, which examines the lives of members of this ethnicity who were interned at camps like Manzanar during World War II.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Bourke-White):
    This photographer toured the South in the 1930s, with her future husband Erskine Caldwell, to produce the book You Have Seen Their Faces. She also captured Gandhi at his spinning wheel.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    A girl in overalls and a bald man covered in beeees appear in two images from this fashion photographer's massive project In the American West. He also took four psychedelic portraits of the Beatles.

[B9] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about famous photographs of women, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: "Afghan Girl"):
    Steve McCurry's photograph of Sharbat Gula, a green-eyed girl with a red scarf wrapped around her head, is best known by this two-word name.
  Part 2 (ans: National Geographic Magazine):
    "Afghan Girl" was published on the cover of a 1985 issue of this magazine, whose photographs of topless women from tribal societies are sometimes controversially censored.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    One of the most iconic photographs by this fashion and portrait photographer shows Nastassja Kinski with a serpent wrapped around her.

[B10] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's collection depicting lower class workers, In the American West, provides a stark contrast to his iconic portrait of Natassja Kinski posing nude with a serpent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    Identify this American fashion photographer who reinvented the photographic portrait by posing his psychologically revealing pictures against a blank backdrop of celebrities like Marilyn Monroe.
  Part 2 (ans: Willem de Kooning):
    Avedon did a famous photograph of this artist with his shirt unbuttoned. This Dutch-born Abstract Expressionist, who became a major figure of 20th century American art, was inspired by Mesopotamian fertility idols to paint his Woman series.
  Part 3 (ans: elephant):
    Another iconic Avedon photograph shows the fashion model Dovima posing in a Dior dress while standing in between two of these animals, which notably Dali paired with swans. A headless but busty mannequin appears in the foreground of Max Ernst's alleged depiction of them entitled "[this animal] Celebes."
