=== STOCK CLUES: Leon Battista Alberti ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leon Battista Alberti
  - This author wrote a text whose second book opens by retelling the story of Narcissus gazing at his own reflection to compare his own profession with "embracing" the "surface of the pool." Anthony Grafton's book about this author discusses his tendency to "personalize" his "ancient sources" in his written works, such as one in which this author cites the story of a cobbler antagonizing Alexander the Great's personal portraitist.
  - This man suggested that artists populate their works with a "variety of things" so that the "soul of the viewer" will be moved through a narrative mode called historia.
  - He was inspired by Vitruvius to write De Re Aedificatoria, a ten-book treatise on architecture.
  - This architect designed the facade for the Santa Maria Novella, and he wrote a 1435 book that was the first to suggest that artists use a vanishing point to create illusionistic perspective.
  - For 10 points, what Florentine architect wrote the first post-classical treatise on painting, Della Pittura? [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Leon Battista Alberti [2]
  - This architect designed the church of San Siro in Milan. [PWR]
  - Another work by this architect was commissioned by the Rucellai family. [PWR]
  - That work by this architect has niches flanked by flat pilasters on the lower level and an oriel window with paired pilasters. [PWR]
  - That facade also notably has scrolls linking the upper and lower register and, is part of Santa Maria Novella. [PWR]
  - A church this man designed has a deep-arched entrance inside a temple front beneath another arch. [PWR]
  - This man's most famous building held a chapel of the planets and its Gothic sides were covered with arches holding (*) sarcophagi. [PWR]
  - That building, planned to have a large dome at the crossing, was proclaimed "full of pagan gods and profane things" and its entrance contains three equal arches, two of which were designed to hold the sarcophagi of its patron and his wife Ixotta.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of Sant'Andrea in Mantua, who remade a Franciscan church into the Tempio Malatestiano. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The story from Vasari's Lives of the Artist in which Giotto draws a perfect circle for the pope was likely inspired by Pliny the Elder's anecdote in which this painter impressed Protogenes with a single fine line. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Apelles of Kos [accept The Calumny of Apelles]):
    Name this Ancient Greek painter of Aphrodite Anadyomene ("an-uh-dy-OM-uh-nee"). Botticelli painted a "Calumny" modeled on a lost work by this painter from Kos.
  Part 2 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    A challenge posed by this author led many Renaissance artists to create versions of The Calumny of Apelles. This author devised geometric ideas on perspective in De pictura and built on Vitruvius in On the Art of Building.
  Part 3 (ans: The School of Athens [or Scuola di Atene]):
    Apelles may have been the model for Raphael's depiction of himself in this painting, in which he stands next to a man modeled on Protogenes. Plato points toward the sky in this painting.

[B2] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The idea that man is "the most perfect work of God on earth" appears in Andre Felibien's influential 1667 formulation of an ordering of these concepts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: genres [accept hierarchy of genres]):
    Name these concepts organized into a hierarchy by the French Royal Academy. Jean-Antoine Watteau's innovation of the fete galante subverted the rigidity of that hierarchy of these concepts.
  Part 2 (ans: still lifes):
    According to Felibien, this genre of painting lies at the bottom of the hierarchy of genres, as it depicts arrangements of inanimate objects such as "fruits, flowers, or seashells."
  Part 3 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    The hierarchy of genres is discussed in relation to istoria, or the creation of narrative through composition, in this theorist's 1435 treatise De Pictura. His treatment of perspective was iterated upon by Piero della Francesca.

[B3] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Non-architectural feats by this man include his authorship of the satirical Latin verse comedy Philodoxius and his invention of the first polyalphabetic cipher. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    Name this Italian architect who wrote the first theoretical text on perspective, De Pictura, and updated a Vitruvius text in his Ten Books on Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Mantua, Italy):
    Alberti's original design for the Basilica of Sant'Andrea in this city lacks a transept, dome, and choir. Giulio Romano both designed the Palazzo del Te, and painted the frescoes contained therein, in this northern Italian city.
  Part 3 (ans: columns):
    Although Alberti proclaimed these building elements to be the most noble, they are completely absent from his design for the facade of San Sebastiano, also in Mantua. Alberti often used the colossal and Corinthian orders of these support structures in the facade of Sant'Andrea.

[B4] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Name these Renaissance men, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Benvenuto Cellini):
    This goldsmith, soldier, and poet wrote a best-selling memoir in which he claimed to have fired the shot that killed Charles III, Duke of Bourbon during the 1527 sack of Rome. He was also a sculptor who worked for Francis I.
  Part 2 (ans: Galileo Galilei [accept either underlined portion]):
    This champion of a heliocentric, Copernican view of the universe, who spent his last years in house arrest, also developed an improved compass for military engineers.
  Part 3 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    This man articulated the idea of the Renaissance man by saying "a man can do all things if he will." This gifted athlete and architect wrote a mathematical treatise on perspective, as well as De re aedificatoria.

[B5] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This author wrote that "a painting in which there are bodies in many dissimilar poses is always especially pleasing" in his treatise Della Pittura, or On Painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    Name this Renaissance painter and architect, who designed the facade of the Santa Maria Novella.
  Part 2 (ans: historia [or istoria; do not accept or prompt on "history"]):
    Alberti's Della Pittura argues that the highest achievement would be to produce a painting that illustrates this concept, in which the narrative of a painting interacts with the painting's audience. This concept is exemplified by Christ gazing at the viewer in Paolo Veronese's The Wedding At Cana.
  Part 3 (ans: Sandro Botticelli):
    Alberti also praises this artist's Adoration of the Magi for including a self-portrait that exemplifies historia. A nude goddess stands on a half-shell in his The Birth of Venus.

[B6] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the age of 20, this architect wrote a "discovered" Latin play that was still thought to be ancient one hundred years after his death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    Name this fifteenth century architect of the Tempio Malatestiano who built two buildings for the merchant Giovanni Rucellai.
  Part 2 (ans: Florence [or Firenze]):
    Alberti's Palazzo Rucellai is in this Italian city, which also contains the Basilica of San Lorenzo and the Uffizi.
  Part 3 (ans: Basilica of Santa Maria Novella):
    Alberti completed the facade of this church which was begun by the Dominican brothers Sisto and Ristoro in 1278. It includes the Strozzi Chapel, as well as Ghirlandaio's Birth of the Virgin and Massacre of the Innocents.

[B7] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these that terminates at Nimes passes over the Pont du Gard, while the Zaghouan one, built during the reign of Hadrian, terminates in Carthage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: aqueducts):
    Name this type of structure, one of which can be seen today in Segovia in Spain. At its heyday, Rome was home to eleven of them, and Sextus Frontinus wrote a book about his time overseeing their maintenance.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcus Vitruvius Pollio):
    This Roman scholar devoted a small section of his De Architectura, commonly known as the Ten Books on Architecture, to a description of aqueduct construction and engineering.
  Part 3 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    This Renaissance artist based his On the Art of Building on Vitruvius's De Architectura, and this author of treatises on painting and sculpting also designed the facade of the Santa Maria Novella.

[B8] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Identify these authors of architectural tracts, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio or Andrea di Pietro della Gondola):
    This Italian, much admired by Thomas Jefferson, designed the Villa Rotunda according to principles laid out in his Four Books of Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    This man updated Vitrivuis's De architectura in the ten books of his De Re Aedificatoria. This polymath also wrote On Painting and developed a namesake cypher in his De Cifris.
  Part 3 (ans: Adolf Loos):
    This author of Spoken into the Void designed Prague's Villa Muller and a namesake bank building in Vienna, though he's best known for his 1908 work excoriating the Vienna Secession, Ornament and Crime.
