=== STOCK CLUES: Susan Sontag ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 46 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 61 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: September 11 attacks [or 9/11; accept equivalents] (the first clue refers to Susan Sontag's essay ; the second clue refers to David Foster Wallace; the third clue refers to Bleeding Edge; the fourth clue refers to Falling Man)
  - An essay about this event claims that a certain concept "which entails disagreement, which entails candor" has been replaced by "psychotherapy." Another author compared this event to preserving "the mobility and autonomy of the car" in his article "Just Asking." Horst Loeffler avoids this event by watching Monday Night Football with his business partner. [PWR]
  - A survivor of this event becomes a professional poker player after entering a sexual relationship with Florence Givens despite being married to the estranged (*) Lianne. [PWR]
  - Keith Neudecker survives this event, whose aftermath results in the homeless programmers Eric and Driscoll moving in with Maxine Tarnow in Thomas Pynchon's novel Bleeding Edge.
  - For 10 points, name this event, the subject of Don DeLillo's novel Falling Man. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Answer: Susan Sontag (the novel is The Volcano Lover)
  - A book by this author notes how a mother in Stendhal's Armance would not utter the word 'tuberculosis' for fear of worsening her son's illness. [PWR]
  - Lady Hamilton is the protagonist of a novel by this author titled in reference to Mount Vesuvius. [PWR]
  - A Jean-Regis Roustan photograph of this person shows them joyfully holding a cigarette whilst sitting at a typewriter.
  - In one essay, this writer claimed to be both "strongly drawn to" and "strongly offended by" a sensibility that she traced to Christopher (*) Isherwood's novel The World in the Evening. [PWR]
  - The essay "In Plato's Cave", which opens a book by this writer, claims that "to collect photographs is to collect the world". 58 brief statements, ending with "it's good because it's awful", comprise the main body of this writer's essay 'Notes on 'Camp''.
  - For 10 points, Annie Leibovitz was the life partner of which American writer, who wrote Illness as Metaphor? [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Answer: Susan Sontag [or Susan Lee Sontag]
  - This thinker connects the "joys of watching" to Baudelaire's conception of the flaneur in the essay "Melancholy Objects." This thinker claimed that collecting certain objects allows us to "collect the world" in an essay opening "Humankind lingers unregenerately in Plato's cave." The "pure" and "deliberate" types of the title concept are contrasted in an essay by this thinker with epigrams from Oscar Wilde.
  - The framing of "freaks" is discussed by this thinker in a collection contrasting the Farm Security Administration with Diane Arbus.
  - A list including Scopitone films and Tiffany lamps appears in an essay by this thinker that outlines conditions for the title sensibility, described as "good because it's awful." For 10 points, name this American author of On Photography and "Notes on 'Camp.'" [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Answer: Susan Sontag [or Susan Rosenblatt]
  - Andrew Sullivan used this writer, and then Michael Moore, to name his award for "moral equivalence" and "visceral anti-Americanism." The memoir Swimming in a Sea of Death, which is about this writer's 2004 death, was written by this writer's policy analyst son David Rieff. [PWR]
  - This writer urged, "Let's by all means grieve together.
  - But let's not be stupid together" in a controversial contribution to a New Yorker piece published five days after (*) 9/11.
  - Marina Abramovic dedicated her Seven Easy Pieces to this friend of hers, whose efforts to draw attention to the Siege of Sarajevo included a candlelight staging of Waiting for Godot.
  - This writer analyzed visual depictions of war in Regarding the Pain of Others, a sequel to a 1977 book that discusses artists like Walker Evans and Diane Arbus.
  - For 10 points, name this public intellectual who wrote On Photography. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Susan Sontag
  - A 2001 essay by this thinker argues for the canonisation of The Pilgrim Hawk by Glenway Wescott and Elizabeth Hardwick's Sleepless Nights, both of which use adjectives to stress sympathy. [PWR]
  - This thinker criticises Karl Menninger's belief that labels should be avoided in diagnosis, but that instead we need to de-mythicise the popular conception of cancer; this thinker wrote a sequel applying that argument to (*) AIDS.
  - This thinker ends another work which contrasts readings of Kafka and Beckett with a section which simply argues that "In place of a hermeneutics we need an erotics of art"; another essay in that collection cites Tiffany lamps and Aubrey Beardsley drawings as examples of a certain sensibility.
  - For 10 points, name this thinker who wrote 'Illness as Metaphor', 'Against Interpretation', and 'Notes on Camp'. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Susan Sontag
  - Two of this author's characters have their first kiss in a mirror-covered room in a villa filled with grotesques.
  - That happens in a novel ending with Eleonora da Fonseca Pimentel cursing the main characters for their selfishness, declaring "Damn them all." In a story by this author, Ursula notes that in a story it's possible to write "He's still alive" but in a painting or photograph you can't show the concept of "still." Ellen Lee accused this author of plagiarizing books like (*) Willa Cather's My Mortal Enemy in a novel about the actress Helena Modjeska . [PWR]
  - An essay by this author is about "the triumph of the epicene style," which "sees everything in quotation marks." A novel by this woman fictionalizes the lives of William and Emma Hamilton.
  - Max says "At first he was just losing weight, he felt only a little ill" at the beginning of a dialogue-heavy story by this author about the AIDS crisis.
  - For 10 points, name this author of In America, The Volcano Lover, and "The Way We Live Now," as well as the essay "Notes on Camp." [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Diane Arbus [or Diane Nemerov] (The essay quoted in the first clue is Susan Sontag's "Freak Show.")
  - An essay about this photographer claims Edward Steichen's  Family of Man is the "last sigh" of "Whitmanesque" eroticism, comparing it to a retrospective of this artist accompanied by an Aperture monograph. [PWR]
  - This artist's first major exhibition, the "New Documents" exhibit, included similar work by Lee Friedlander and Garry Winogrand.
  - This artist's switch from a grainy Nikon to a twin-lens Rolleiflex  led to a shift to sharp, square portraiture.
  - After seeing this photographer's portrait of him sprawled on an armchair for the New York Times Book Review, (*) Norman Mailer referenced her best known photo in a comment.
  - She photographed a boy in a straw hat with a button reading "Bomb Hanoi" in a pro-Vietnam War parade.
  - This photographer captured two identical twin girls, showed Eddie Carmel towering over his parents, and photographed a lanky boy with a loose suspender strap holding a fake weapon.
  - For 10 points, name this American photographer known for her dark images of marginalized people, such as Child with Toy Hand Grenade in Central Park. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Susan Sontag [accept either]
  - This author is hospitalized for condemning cultural terrorism in the face of bibliocidal threats also made to Alberto Moravia and Octavio Paz in Julio Cortazar's graphic novella Fantomas versus the Multinational Vampires. [PWR]
  - "Surrealism is the art of generalizing the grotesque" according to one essay by this "militant browser," who used the idea of "dual citizenship" to introduce the "night-side of life" in a work that contrasts "disintegration" into liquids with "degeneration" to hardness.
  - This subject of a recent Sigrid Nunez memoir wrote that "the point of a writer's life is to produce" a single "great book" in a classic foreword to (*) Pedro Paramo. [PWR]
  - According to one essay by this author, "travel becomes a strategy to accumulate" the products of "[acts] of non-intervention" whose "distance" sets up a "chronic voyeuristic relation." She imagined myths of romantic passion and paranoid energy to contrast TB and cancer.
  - For 10 points, name this author of On Photography and Illness as Metaphor. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Answer: Susan Sontag [or Susan Rosenblatt]
  - In 1982, this thinker claimed that Communism was "the most successful variant of Fascism." In a Partisan Review essay, this author wrote that "the white race is the cancer of human history." This person directed a candlelit performance of Waiting for Godot during the 1990s Siege of Sarajevo.
  - In an essay, this thinker claimed that Hitchcock's films fell into "self-parody" and could not be part of the title canon.
  - This author wrote a 1978 text that notes how both tuberculosis and cancer were once linked to a person's psychological traits.
  - She produced a series of theses that define picture postcards as part of the title "love of the unnatural." For 10 points, name this writer of the book Illness as Metaphor and the essay "Notes on 'Camp.'" [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Answer: Susan Sontag
  - This thinker ended a 20-section work by asking "how far the resources of irony can be stretched," after describing its title concept as "soft" in John Cage's work and "loud" elsewhere.
  - In another essay, this thinker noted in a footnote that the Greek notion of form was spatial rather than temporal, and wrote that the idea of "content" is a "mere hindrance." This author of "The Aesthetics of Silence" ended an essay by writing "In place of a hermeneutics, we need an erotics of art." She contrasted the glorification of tuberculosis patients with the victim-blaming experienced by cancer patients, and quoted Oscar Wilde to discuss a sensibility which is "good because it's awful." For 10 points, name this American author of Illness as Metaphor, who included "Notes on 'Camp'" in Against Interpretation. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The artist Gerald Byrne created a speculative reconstruction of this object after it was destroyed in riots in Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the tree in Waiting for Godot [prompt on tree]):
    Name this theater prop created with plaster by Alberto Giacometti. It replaced a version by Roger Blin made out of wire coat hangers and tissue paper.
  Part 2 (ans: Hurricane Katrina (The novel is Jesmyn Ward's Salvage the Bones.)):
    The sight of a bare tree in a landscape destroyed by this event inspired Paul Chan's staging of Waiting for Godot. In a novel, the pregnant teenage protagonist is upset when her crush Manny rejects her before this event, which is also the subject of Dave Eggers's book Zeitoun.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag [or Susan Lee Sontag or Susan Lee Rosenblatt]):
    This author also featured the iconic bare tree when she went to war-torn Sarajevo to stage Godot. This critic wrote "Notes on 'Camp'" and Illness as Metaphor.

[B2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote three letters to an unknown addressee only called "Master." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Emily Dickinson [or Emily Elizabeth Dickinson]):
    Name this poet who corresponded with Thomas Wentworth Higginson and wrote the line "'Hope' is the thing with feathers."
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Fuller [or Sarah Margaret Fuller or Margaret Fuller Ossoli]):
    This poet of "Flaxman" wrote a letter calling then-dead Beethoven "Master" and had a biography written by Higginson. This author published a book originally titled "The Great Lawsuit" in a journal she edited.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag [or Susan Lee Sontag]):
    Fuller and Dickinson appear during a tea party in this author's play about Alice James, Alice in Bed. This author calls the title subject "good because it's awful" in "Notes on 'Camp.'"

[B3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: On recognizing that she will not recover from this kind of tragedy, Ruth moves to a farmhouse that she defends from crows, bats, and a squatter in the story "Real Estate." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cancer diagnoses [or descriptions of getting cancer, tumors, malignancy, neoplasms, or Wilms' tumor; prompt on disease, terminal illness, diagnosis, prognosis, or equivalents of any]):
    Name this kind of tragedy that is also explored in the story "People Like That Are the Only People Here," in which the narrator sympathizes with the droids while watching Star Wars in the Tiny Tim Lounge.
  Part 2 (ans: Lorrie Moore [or Marie Lorena Moore]):
    The aforementioned stories appear in this American author's collection Birds of America. She also wrote the collections Bark and Self-Help, and the novel Who Will Run the Frog Hospital?
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag [or Susan Lee Sontag]):
    This other American author wrote the book Illness as Metaphor while undergoing treatment for breast cancer. Her "Notes on 'Camp'" describes art that is "good because it's awful."

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about photography during the New Deal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Life):
    In 1936, Margaret Bourke-White took a photo of the Fort Peck Dam that served as the first cover for this magazine whose logo is a red box with white text inside. It was later bought by Time.
  Part 2 (ans: Let Us Now Praise Famous Men (by Walker Evans and James Agee)):
    Many Farm Security Administration-era photographs in this book document the lives of the pseudonymous Gudger, Woods, and Ricketts families. The lines "The house had now descended / All over Alabama the lamps are out" precedes this book's first section, titled "On the Porch."
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This critic called the work of the FSA "propagandistic" in an essay included in her collection On Photography. A retrospective by Diane Arbus is heavily criticized by this author in another essay originally titled "Freak Show," often grouped with her "Notes on 'Camp'."

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author described their struggle with breast cancer in their Cancer Journals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Audre Lorde [or Audrey Geraldine Lorde; or Gamba Adisa]):
    Name this author whose biomythography describes their decision to change their name to the Carriacou name Zami. A collection by them includes the essay "The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master's House."
  Part 2 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    While being treated for breast cancer and never mentioning it, this author wrote about cancer as a disease of "repression" in her work Illness as Metaphor. This author also wrote the essay collection On Photography.
  Part 3 (ans: book publishing industry [or word forms; prompt on answers mentioning books alone]):
    In his collection Terminalia, Daniel Menaker describes his time working in this industry before passing away from pancreatic cancer in 2020. Firms in this industry include Penguin Random House and Alfred. A Knopf.

[B6] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel about this event, Robert Morison chases a swallow out of his brother Bunny's room with a broom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1918 influenza pandemic [or Spanish flu; prompt on influenza or pandemic]):
    Name this event depicted in William Maxwell's They Came Like Swallows. The newspaper worker Miranda falls in love with a soldier during this event in Katherine Anne Porter's "Pale Horse, Pale Rider."
  Part 2 (ans: Willa Cather [or Wilella Sibert Cather]):
    Claude Wheeler is spared from the Spanish flu during an outbreak on the ship Anchises in One of Ours, which is a novel by this author of O Pioneers!.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag [or Susan Rosenblatt]):
    This author describes the "near-total historical amnesia" surrounding the 1918 influenza pandemic because it was less useful as a metaphor in their "Illness as Metaphor." This author also wrote "Notes on Camp."

[B7] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 2019 essay collection titled after this mental disorder, Esme Weijun Wang ("way-joon wahng") describes her experience with this disorder when she recounts hallucinations of the phrase "I hate you." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: schizophrenia [or SZ; accept The Collected Schizophrenias: Essays]):
    Name this disorder whose name translates to "split mind," a term that Wang calls "ableist and inaccurate."
  Part 2 (ans:  Ten Days in a Mad-House):
    Wang compares her experience to this 1887 expose of Blackwell's Asylum. This book's author, Nellie Bly, pretended to be mentally ill in order to investigate the asylum's abusive conditions.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This author criticized the "romantic idea that the disease expresses the character" in her book Illness as Metaphor. Wang's essay "L'Appel du Vide" discusses On Photography, a book by this author of "Notes on Camp."

[B8] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This author was photographed wearing a bear suit by her partner Annie Leibovitz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    Name this author of On Photography who identified Flash Gordon comics as the title form of media in "Notes on Camp."
  Part 2 (ans: cancer [accept any type]):
    Sontag once compared the white race to this disease. In Illness as Metaphor, Sontag argues that sufferers of this disease are shunned by members of their family, despite it not being infectious. Sontag was suffering from of this disease when writing Illness as Metaphor.
  Part 3 (ans: Kathy Acker):
    Many of this author's characters have or fear breast cancer, including Janey in her novel Blood and Guts in High School. Other books by this author include My Death, My Life by Pier Paolo Pasolini and Black Tarantula.

[B9] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each-answer the following about literary critics who wrote books with related titles.
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This critic collected essays like "Notes on Camp" in her collection Against Interpretation. She also wrote On Photography and Regarding the Pain of Others.
  Part 2 (ans: TheOld Man and the Sea):
    In his book Against the American Grain, Dwight MacDonald used this 1952 novella as an example of "midcult" literature. MacDonald attacked its "fake-biblical prose" and dialogue like "Have faith in the Yankees, my son."
  Part 3 (ans: Mark Greif):
    This founder of the literary magazine n + 1 published the essay collection Against Everything in 2016. He recounted the intertwined history of American literature and intellectual life from 1933-1973 in the book The Age of the Crisis of Man.

[B10] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In an obituary, Terry Castle recalled being invited by this writer to a dinner party where she was promptly ignored by all the other guests. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    Name this writer who, in that essay, repeatedly claimed her novel The Volcano Lover was misunderstood. She analyzed victim-blaming in talk about cancer and tuberculosis in an essay written while she was being treated for breast cancer.
  Part 2 (ans: Waiting for Godot [or En attendant Godot]):
    Castle recalled Sontag's obsession with having produced this Samuel Beckett play during the siege of Sarajevo. Lucky delivers a single frantic monologue in this play, which centers on the non-doings of Vladimir and Estragon.
  Part 3 (ans: The Bostonians):
    An essay from Castle's book The Apparitional Lesbian analyzes the potential attraction between the feminists Olive Chancellor and Verena Tarrant in this Henry James novel, which Castle deemed "the first 'lesbian novel' written in English." The name of this novel may have inspired the name of a type of informal same-sex "marriage" between women.

[B11] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Benjamin Moser's 2019 biography of this author emphasizes her relationships with women like Maria Irene Fornes and Annie Leibovitz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    Name this author who inspired the 2019 Met Gala theme by writing an essay interspersed with Oscar Wilde quotes about the "triumph of the epicene style," titled "Notes on 'Camp.'"
  Part 2 (ans: AIDS [or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; or HIV; or Human Immunodeficiency Virus; or HIV/AIDS]):
    Sontag's story "The Way We Live Now" is mainly centered around the crisis of this disease, which is a focus of Tony Kushner's play Angels in America.
  Part 3 (ans: Rebecca Solnit (Those essays are "Sontag and Tsunami" and "Men Explain Things to Me.")):
    An essay by this author begins "the news of Susan Sontag's death arrived as a single sentence spoken in the opening moments of a radio news program." She related being lectured on her own book River of Shadows, which is about photographer Eadweard Muybridge ("Edward MY-bridge"), in an essay that coined the term "mansplaining."

[B12] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An essay on this topic wonders why it has not taken its place with "love, battle, and jealousy among the prime themes of literature." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: illness [prompt on disease]):
    Name this subject of that Virginia Woolf essay titled "On Being" in this state. A 1978 work discusses how literature often treats this concept metaphorically to represent punishment or personality and condemns the militarization of language used to discuss it.
  Part 2 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This author critiqued literary depictions of tuberculosis in Illness as Metaphor, which she followed with AIDS and Its Metaphors. She discussed war photography in Regarding the Pain of Others.
  Part 3 (ans: leukemia [prompt on cancer]):
    Sontag claims this disease has replaced consumption as a vehicle for aestheticized death in fiction. In Kenzaburo Oe's Adventures in Everyday Life, Saikichi commits suicide because he cannot save his friend from this disease.

[B13] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem titled for this person's character, he is described as someone who "Turns his necessity to glorious gain; / In face of these doth exercise a power / Which is our human nature's highest dower." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Happy Warrior [or "Character of the Happy Warrior"]):
    Identify this title man in an 1806 poem who is described as "he / Whom every Man in arms should wish to be."
  Part 2 (ans: Lord Horatio Nelson):
    Wordsworth's "The Character of the Happy Warrior" was written after the death of this man. This British admiral inspired C. S. Forester's Hornblower series.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This writer examined the tempestuous relationship between Lord Nelson's mistress Emma Hamilton and her vulcanologist husband in The Volcano Lover. This author of "On Photography" contrasted content-based and formalist hermeneutics in "Against Interpretation."

[B14] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author took W. H. Auden to task for using "capitalized personified abstraction" in a series of critical lectures that prompted Auden to note that this man "must be in love with me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Randall Jarrell (juh-REL)):
    Name this author who collected his criticism in Poetry and the Age and was inspired by his time teaching at Sarah Lawrence College to pen the satirical novel Pictures from an Institution.
  Part 2 (ans: children's books [accept any answers mentioning fiction or literature for children or kids]):
    Jarrell's prose works include popular works in this genre titled The Bat Poet and The Animal Family, both of which were illustrated by an author known for his work in this genre, Maurice Sendak.
  Part 3 (ans: "Against Interpretation" [by Susan Sontag]):
    This essay by another author cites Jarrell's essay on Walt Whitman as a rare example of the type of "criticism which [supplies] a really accurate, sharp, loving description of the appearance of a work of art" that this essay advocates.

[B15] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these other things about consumption and literature:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This author traced the characteristics associated with sufferers of cancer and tuberculosis in her book Illness as Metaphor .
  Part 2 (ans: The Citadel ):
    This novel by A.J. Cronin helped to bolster public awareness to the lung diseases, including tuberculosis, that befell coal miners in England and Wales. In this book, the doctor Andrew Manson tries to reconcile his need for research funding with his moral principles.

[B16] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these other female authors featured in contemporary anthologies of short fiction:
  Part 1 (ans: ZZ Packer [or Zuwena Packer]):
    An African-American scout troop believes that they were the target of hate speech by a rival troop in this author's story "Brownies." She wrote the collection Drinking Coffee Elsewhere .
  Part 2 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    Snippets of conversations between acquaintances of a hospitalized man comprise this author's take on the AIDS crisis, "The Way We Live Now."

[B17] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This author's journal and notebook collection As Consciousness is Harnessed to Flesh described her compulsion to compile lists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    Name this American author who explained "There is an aggression implicit in every use of the camera" and a "non-intervention" in the essay On Photography.
  Part 2 (ans: Roland Gerard Barthes):
    Prior to Susan Sontag, this philosopher wrote an autobiography explaining his penchant for lists. He also constructed a framework for finding the noeme, or essence, of photography in a book entitled Camera Lucida.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This author proclaimed that "the list is the origin of culture" and wrote the illustrated essay collection "The Infinity of Lists." He also compiled 14 typical features of fascism in his essay "Ur-Fascism, or Eternal Fascism."

[B18] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer these questions about literary critic Lionel Trilling, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York City):
    Trilling was part of a group of writers known as the "Intellectuals" of this city. A poem that includes the lines "Give me your tired, your poor / Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free," titled "The New Colossus" is engraved on a statue in this city's harbor.
  Part 2 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    Trilling wrote for Partisan Review, a Marxist magazine associated with the New York Intellectuals. One work published in that magazine was "Notes on 'Camp'," an essay by this author of Against Interpretation.
  Part 3 (ans: Matthew Arnold):
    Trilling first gained fame from a biography of this author who noted "The bridge is cross'd, and slow we ride" in his "Stanzas from the Grande Chartreuse." This poet also wrote that "Sophocles long ago" heard a certain sound "on the Aegean" in another poem.

[B19] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these authors of literature about cancer, none of whom are John Green, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This author, herself a breast cancer patient, described how society uses "blame the victim" language to describe diseases and their sufferers in her treatise Illness as Metaphor.
  Part 2 (ans: Audre Lorde [or Audrey Geraldine Lorde]):
    This lesbian Caribbean-American author of the autobiography Zami: A New Spelling of My Name discussed her refusal to wear a silicone breast after treatment in her Cancer Journals.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]):
    This poet's "Death from Cancer" is the first part of an extended elegy for his grandfather Arthur Winslow. He is better known for poems such as "For the Union Dead" and "Skunk Hour."

[B20] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Will, James, and Charles share a regard for this author's works in Alan Hollinghurst's novel The Swimming-Pool Library. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Arthur Annesley) Ronald Firbank):
    Name this English comic author, who wrote of Mrs. Thoroughfare's disapproval of her son's marriage to Niri-Esther in Valmouth. The title character of his Concerning the Eccentricities of Cardinal Pirelli dies from his lust for choirboys.
  Part 2 (ans: "Notes on 'Camp'"):
    This essay places Ronald Firbank's novels alongside Bellini's operas and Flash Gordon comics in the canon of the title sensibility, which "sees everything in quotation marks" and whose pure form is "always naive."
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag [or Susan Rosenblatt]):
    "Notes on 'Camp'" is by this American writer of Illness as Metaphor who attacked rule-bound methods of analyzing artworks' content in "Against Interpretation."

[B21] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a thirty-page short story about an act of intercourse titled "Interlude." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harold Brodkey [or Aaron Roy Weintraub]):
    Identify this author of the unreleased five-thousand page novel A Party of Animals, whose 900 page section The Runaway Soul was published in 1991.
  Part 2 (ans: AIDS [or HIV; prompt on "sickness" or "disease"]):
    Harold Brodkey wrote about his death from this cause in This Wild Darkness: The Story of My Death. This cause of death is also the subject of Paul Monette's memoir Borrowed Time.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    In 1989, this author wrote AIDS and its Metaphors, a response to her earlier Illness as Metaphor. Her other nonfiction includes Against Interpretation and the essay "Notes on 'Camp.'"
