=== STOCK CLUES: Hulme ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about some ace literature with asexual characters, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heartstopper):
    The aromantic and asexual Isaac Henderson is best friends with Charlie Spring in this graphic novel series created by Alice Oseman, who in 2020 opened up about her own asexuality.
  Part 2 (ans: Sayaka Murata(The novels are Convenience Store Woman and Earthlings.)):
    A 2016 novel by this author sees the protagonist enter an asexual relationship with a man who claims "society has remained in the Stone Age". This author created an eleven year old protagonist who meets a magician from the planet Popinpobopia.
  Part 3 (ans: New Zealand(The author is Keri Hulme.)):
    An asexual author from this country never finished a novel about fishing, BAIT, before her death. A fictional stand-in for that author intervenes to stop an alcoholic from assaulting his mute son in the bone people, a novel from this country.

[B2] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this movement defined poetry as "the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings...recollected in tranquility." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English Romanticism):
    Name this literary movement whose ideals are discussed in the preface to Lyrical Ballads.
  Part 2 (ans: a lamp):
    M. H. Abrams wrote a book contrasting the Romantics' "expressive" theories of art, symbolized by this object, with classical "mimetic" theories symbolized by a mirror.
  Part 3 (ans: T. E. Hulme [or Thomas Ernest Hulme]):
    This critic sometimes known as the "father of Imagism" argued against the perceived excesses of Romanticism in his essay "Romanticism and Classicism," which looks forward to the displacement of Romanticism by a "classical revival."
