=== STOCK CLUES: de Sica ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vittorio de Sica
  - In a film by this director, an old man simply tells a pregnant maid "I'm tired" upon finding that his landlady has knocked a giant hole in the wall of his room.
  - In that film by this director, a pensioner who is too proud to beg for rent money has his dog sit on the street with his hat in its mouth.
  - One of this director's characters repeatedly looks over at a rich boy as he drinks wine for the first time in a crowded restaurant.
  - Screenwriter Cesare Zavattini collaborated with this director on films like Umberto D. that starred non-professional actors.
  - Antonio Ricci looks away while putting up a Rita Hayworth poster in a 1948 film by this director in which he wanders Rome with his son, searching for a stolen vehicle.
  - For 10 points, what Italian neorealist directed Bicycle Thieves? [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vittorio De Sica
  - Andre Bazin praised a scene from one of this director's films in which a young maid makes coffee and stares out the window at a cat. [PWR]
  - After teaching his dog to beg passersby for money, the retired bureaucrat title character of a film by this director contemplates jumping in front of a moving train until his dog whimpers at him. [PWR]
  - Another film by this director ends with two characters holding hands and walking into the distance as they disappear into a city crowd. [PWR]
  - In that film by this director, a man cuts in line to speak with a (*) fortune teller and gets caught trying to steal an object outside of a soccer stadium. [PWR]
  - The central family in that film by this director pawn their bedsheets so that the father can get a job hanging Rita Hayworth posters.
  - With his frequent scriptwriter Cesare Zavattini, this director made Umberto D. and a film in which Antonio and his son Bruno wander around Rome searching for a stolen vehicle.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian neorealist director of Bicycle Thieves. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an opening tracking shot, the gloved hands of a character played by Danielle Darrieux hovers over a vanity and a closet of fur coats before selecting these objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the earrings of Madame de... [accept Louise's earrings]):
    Name these title objects from a sumptuous romantic drama directed by Max Ophuls. They are pawned, claimed lost at the opera, and repeatedly exchanged between Constantinople and Paris by Lola and Baron Donati.
  Part 2 (ans: Vittorio De Sica):
    In The Earrings of Madame de..., Donati is played by this actor, better known as the director of the Italian neorealist films Umberto D. and Bicycle Thieves.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Boyer (The other film is Gaslight.)):
    The other male lead, Andre, is played by this prolific French-American actor who had earlier starred with Darrieux in Mayerling. In a 1944 George Cukor film, he portrayed a villain who fails to find jewels sewn into an opera singer's costume.

[B2] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The protagonist of this film, one of many roles played by nonprofessional actors, returns from receiving treatment for tonsillitis to find a giant hole in the wall of his room, from which he is evicted. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Umberto D.):
    Name this 1952 film with a screenplay by Cesare Zavattini. A dog named Flike is the only companion of its elderly title character.
  Part 2 (ans: Vittorio De Sica):
    Zavattini also wrote the screenplay to Bicycle Thieves, which, like Umberto D., was directed by this Italian neorealist filmmaker.
  Part 3 (ans: Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film [prompt on partial answers; accept "Oscar" in place of "Academy Award"]):
    De Sica's films Bicycle Thieves and Shoeshine were two of the first three winners of the honorary version of this Academy Award. Federico Fellini's La Strada was this category's first competitive winner, in 1956.

[B3] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This object is from the "Fides" brand, and is repurchased after a family's bedsheets are pawned. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The (first) bicycle from Bicycle Thieves [or The Bicycle Thief, or Ladri di bicciclette, accept Antonio's bicycle or Ricci's bicycle and word forms; prompt on bicycle, asking for the film]):
    Name this object. This object allows the protagonist of the film in which it appears to gain work distributing advertising posters; that film revolves around Bruno and his father's search for this object.
  Part 2 (ans: Vittorio De Sica):
    Bicycle Thieves is perhaps the best-known work by this Italian director, whose other films include Sciuscia and Umberto D. He often collaborated with Cesare Zavattini.
  Part 3 (ans: (Italian neo-) Realism):
    Along with Roberto Rossellini, De Sica pioneered a genre of film known as the "neo-" type of this wider artistic movement. It generally seeks to portray subjects as truthfully as possible, without artificiality.

[B4] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some lead actors in the films of Max Ophuls:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter (Alexander von) Ustinov):
    This British actor and polymath of Russian ancestry played the tyrannical ringmaster in Ophuls' Lola Montes. He also voiced Prince John and King Richard in Disney's Robin Hood and played Nero in Quo Vadis.
  Part 2 (ans: Anton Walbrook):
    This Austrian actor played Ludwig I of Bavaria in Lola Montes as well as the Meneur de Jeu in Ophuls' La Ronde. He also acted in multiple Powell and Pressburger films, notably as Boris Lermontov in The Red Shoes.
  Part 3 (ans: Vittorio de Sica):
    Ophuls' Madame de... sees Danielle Darrieux's title character start an affair with a diplomat played by this Italian matinee idol, who's probably more famous for directing films like Shoeshine and The Bicycle Thieves.
