=== STOCK CLUES: Zaha Hadid ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 23 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Zaha Hadid [Zaha Mohammad Hadid]
  - A collaborator in this architect's firm used a term for self-generating systems to title the book The Autopoiesis of Architecture.
  - This architect's graduation project was a plan for a Suprematist hotel on Hungerford Bridge called "Malevich's Tektonik." Patrik Schumacher coined a term often used to describe this architect's Dongdaemun (dong-DAY-mun) Design Plaza, "parametricism." This architect sued the New York Review of Books after being criticized for dismissing concerns over dying construction workers building the Al-Wakrah Stadium, which will be used for the 2022 World Cup.
  - Two rocks being smoothed by the Pearl River inspired the flowing lines in the design of this architect's Guangzhou Opera House, which contributed to their nickname of the "queen of the curve." The MAXXI Museum was designed by, for 10 points, what Iraqi-British architect? [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Zaha Hadid
  - This architect used the concept of a "Metonymic Landscape" for Seoul's Dongdaemun Design Plaza.
  - This architect's design for the Cardiff Bay Opera House lacked financial support and has never been realised, and plans for a bicycle helmet-shaped stadium in Meiji Park by this architect have also been scrapped.
  - (*) This architect's completed projects include the BMW Central Building in Leipzig, and the "twin boulders" of Guangzhou Opera House.
  - The designer of the London 2012 Aquatics Centre and the 2022 FIFA World Cup Stadium, for 10 points, name this Pritzker-winning female architect. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Zaha Hadid
  - This artist created a painting called The Peak Project depicting an unrealized project intended for the hills of Kowloon. [PWR]
  - A partner in this architect's namesake firm coined the term parametricism to describe their work.
  - This architect designed a Z-shaped secondary school in London called the Evelyn Grace Academy. [PWR]
  - This architect designed a building in Wolfsburg which rests on huge concrete stilts, allowing visitors to walk underneath it. [PWR]
  - This architect of the (*) Phaeno Science Centre also created a building with a wave-shaped roof which had spectator wings added for the 2012 Olympics, the London Aquatics Centre.
  - This architect used floating stairs in a modern art museum in Rome called the Maxxi.
  - For 10 points, name this postmodernist architect, a woman born in Baghdad. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Answer: Zaha Hadid
  - This artist used a single piece of polyurethane to create the furniture piece Aqua Table, whose three curves are "undulations" representing waves. [PWR]
  - This designer has made numerous interlocking sofas and other "floating" tables and chairs as part of a collection called Z.Scape, which was largely inspired by this architect's design for a museum in Wolfsberg, Germany that allows for vehicles and pedestrians to move underneath it. [PWR]
  - Another building by this creator of the Phaeno Science Center was inspired by the curvy shape of the dhow fishing (*) boat; the death of migrant workers during that building's construction led to a controversy in which this architect sued the New York Review of Books for defamation. [PWR]
  - The concept of boulders being erosively smoothed by a river inspired this architect's "twin boulders" design for a mostly glass music center on the Pearl River.
  - The 2022 FIFA World Cup stadium and the Guangzhou Opera House were designed by, for 10 points, what recently-deceased Iranian architect? [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: (Dame) Zaha Hadid
  - This architect designed spiral-shaped, pebbled boots for Lacoste, as well as created three organic-shaped white parasols in the Lilas installation, the first iteration of the Serpentine Gallery's yearly pavilion tradition. [PWR]
  - Wings were removed from a British facility designed by this architect that retains a concrete ceiling that slopes downwards towards an Olympic swimming pool situated between two walls of windows; that building is the London (*) Aquatics Center. [PWR]
  - A design by this architect called for two parallel tapered points on the end of a large ovoid structure, which Arata Isozaki said looked like "a turtle waiting for Japan to sink so that it can swim away" - that building wasn't built, though this architect's plan for another stupidly extravagant stadium continues to cost the lives of underpaid South Asian workers.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of the scrapped 2020 Tokyo Stadium and the vaginesque 2022 Al-Wakrah stadium in Qatar, a female Pritzker winner who died recently. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect's first constructed building was for an in-house company fire station after a factory burned down. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaha Hadid):
    Name this architect who designed the Vitra Fire station, as well as the Guangzhou Opera House.
  Part 2 (ans: chairs):
    The Vitra Fire Station was built next to a factory that manufactured these items designed by Charles and Ray Eames. Eero Saarinen designed a tulip example of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Columbus, Indiana):
    Robert Venturi designed Fire Station Number 4 for this city. Cummins President J. Irwin Miller heavily invested in public architecture in this city, including commissions for I. M. Pei and Cesar Pelli.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An architect sought to blend the designs of a tower and podium for a building in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hong Kong (The Pei building is the Bank of China Tower.)):
    Name this city where the Innovation Tower was built for its Polytechnic University. A distinctive I. M. Pei skyscraper in this city received criticism for the "X" shapes formed by its exterior of adjacent white triangles.
  Part 2 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Dame Zaha Mohammad Hadid DBE RA]):
    This architect, the "queen of the curve," designed the Innovation Tower. The London Aquatics Center for the 2012 Olympics and Rome's MAXXI museum were also designed by this British-Iraqi architect.
  Part 3 (ans: opera house [or the Guangzhou Opera House; or the Sydney Opera House]):
    Hadid used two rocks being washed away by the Pearl River as the inspiration for a building of this type in Guangzhou. Sails inspired the iconic white roof of one of these buildings in Sydney designed by Jorn Utzon.

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Since commissioning this architect in 2000, the London organization Serpentine has commissioned a different architect to create a temporary summer pavilion every year. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaha Hadid ("huh-DEED")):
    Name this architect of the Guangzhou ("gwang-joh") Opera House and the London Aquatics Centre, the latter of which was built for the 2012 Summer Olympics.
  Part 2 (ans: Burkina Faso):
    The 2017 pavilion was designed by Diebedo Francis Kere ("d'yuh-BED-oh francis KAY-ray"), an architect born in this African country, who became the first African winner of the Pritzker Prize in 2022.
  Part 3 (ans: Brasilia):
    The 2003 Serpentine Pavilion was designed by Oscar Niemeyer ("nee-uh-MAH-yer"), who is best known for working with Lucio ("loo-SEE-oh") Costa and designing many buildings in this South American planned capital city.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect studied mathematics before moving to London to study architecture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Zaha Mohammad Hadid]):
    Name this architect of the London Aquatics Center for the 2012 Olympics. This architect also sued the New York Review of Books for discrimination after criticism of worker deaths at Al-Janoub Stadium.
  Part 2 (ans: Rem Koolhaas [Remment Lucas Koolhaas]):
    In London, Hadid studied under this architect who co-founded the Office of Metropolitan Architecture with another one of her professors, Elia Zenghelis. This architect designed the CCTV Headquarters in Beijing and the Seattle Central Library.
  Part 3 (ans: opera house [prompt on theater, auditorium, concert hall, or performing arts center]):
    Hadid designed one of these buildings in Guangzhou. One of these buildings which overlooks Sydney Harbour was designed by Jorn Utzon.

[B5] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Constructivist art inspired the sharply angular overhang of this museum's concrete facade. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: MAXXI [accept Museo nazionale delle arti del XXI secolo; accept Italy's National Museum of 21st Century Arts; prompt on National Museum of 21st Century Arts] (by Zaha Hadid)):
    Name this parametricist museum built on top of a former military barracks. This museum's stark white interior contrasts with its weaving and underlit black staircases, which lie below a ceiling of flowing concrete beams and louvered skylights.
  Part 2 (ans: Tadao Ando [or Ando Tadao]):
    This architect's subterranean Chichu Art Museum lets in light through concrete-reinforced geometric openings, a technique he also used in his Church of the Light.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    Lina Bo Bardi designed an art museum in this country without interior walls that displays painting on crystal easels throughout its open plan. Oscar Niemeyer designed many buildings in this country's planned capital.

[B6] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the links between architecture and shoe design, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Czechia [or Czech Republic or Ceska republika; prompt on Czechoslovakia]):
    Le Corbusier inspired the Bata shoe company's functionalist redesign of a city in this country. "Fred and Ginger" was the original name of Frank Gehry's Dancing House in this country's capital, Prague.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar Niemeyer [or Oscar Ribeiro de Almeida Niemeyer Soares Filho] (The two collaborated because they both celebrated their 104th birthdays in 2012.)):
    In 2012, this architect teamed up with Converse to release Chuck Taylor trainers printed with a poem about his longing for the "free and sensual curve." This architect designed the headquarters of the French Communist Party while in exile in Paris.
  Part 3 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Dame Zaha Mohammad Hadid]):
    In 2015, this architect was one of five invited by Rem Koolhaas's ("KOHL-hahss's") company United Nude to design 3D-printed women's shoes. This Deconstructivist architect, who also created shoes for Melissa, designed the Guangzhou Opera House.

[B7] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this province, Ma Yansong designed the Absolute World Towers, which were also nicknamed after Marilyn Monroe due to their curvaceous silhouettes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ontario):
    Name this Canadian province that is also home to Casa Loma and the CN Tower.
  Part 2 (ans: siheyuan ("suh-huh-y'WEN") [or siheyuan; prompt on courtyard houses or Chinese quadrangles]):
    Ma Yansong's designs are often influenced by these courtyards commonly found in Beijing. The entrances to these complexes were made at their southeast corner to correspond with and symbolize the natural element of wind.
  Part 3 (ans: Zaha Hadid):
    This architect mentored Ma Yansong while he studied architecture at Yale University. This architect behind the Dongdaemun Design Plaza and Zaragoza Bridge Pavilion was the first woman to win the Pritzker Prize.

[B8] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about honeycombs in Middle Eastern architecture:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Dame Zaha Mohammed Hadid]):
    This architect's firm designed the white honeycomb exterior of Riyadh's huge King Abdullah Petroleum Research Center. This Iraqi-British architect designed the London Aquatics Center for the 2012 Olympics.
  Part 2 (ans: muqarnas):
    The interiors of these elaborately ornamented domed vaults, ubiquitous in Islamic architecture, are frequently compared to honeycombs or stalactites.
  Part 3 (ans: Chehel Sotoun ("shuh-HEL soo-TOON") [prompt on Forty Columns] (The palace is in Isfahan.)):
    The entrance to this pavilion is surrounded by a large iwan, or open vault, whose facade is decorated with a golden-inlaid honeycomb design. This Iranian pleasure-palace is found at the end of a long pool surrounded by a char bagh garden.

[B9] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It's time to go to the opera! So for 10 points each, answer the following about opera houses.
  Part 1 (ans: Sydney):
    This city's opera house took Ove Arup's engineering firm 14 years to complete, including experiencing difficulties building the "shells" designed by Jorn Utzon.
  Part 2 (ans: Zaha Hadid):
    This architect's design for the Guangzhou Opera House was inspired by the banks of the Pearl River. This first woman to win the Pritzker Prize also designed the Broad (rhymes with "load") Art Museum at Michigan State University.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Nouvel):
    Lyon's opera house was designed by this French architect, who it is named after. This 2008 Pritzker winner designed the bullet-shaped Torre Agbar in Barcelona and the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis.

[B10] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A building under construction in this city was previously known as the Scorpion Tower, but has been renamed the 1000 Museum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miami):
    Name this city, home to the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts designed by Cesar Pelli, and a concert hall designed by Frank Gehry called the New World Center.
  Part 2 (ans: Zaha Hadid (ZAH-hah hah-DEED)):
    The 1000 Museum in Miami was designed by this Iraqi-born architect who died in 2016. Her work is based around computer-generated parametric curves, as in her cultural center in Baku, the MAXXI museum in Venice, and the Zaragoza Bridge Pavilion.
  Part 3 (ans: Herzog & de Meuron [or HdM]):
    This Swiss architecture firm designed an experimental parking garage at 1111 Lincoln Street in Miami that features irregular trapezoidal supports and glass-enclosed storefronts and apartments. They also designed the "Bird's Nest" for the Beijing Olympics.

[B11] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect described her design for Rome's contemporary art museum, MAXXI, as moving away from the idea of "the museum as an object" and toward the idea of a "field of buildings." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Dame Zaha Mohammad Hadid]):
    Name this late Iraqi-born British architect whose design for the Guangzhou (gwahng-joh) Opera House resembles two pebbles on the shore of the Pearl River. In 2004, she became the first woman to receive the Pritzker Prize.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago):
    With Ben van Berkel, Hadid designed a pair of color-changing pavilions to commemorate the centennial of Daniel Burnham's plan for this city. Fazlur Khan designed this city's Sears Tower, now known as Willis Tower.
  Part 3 (ans: BMW [or Bavarian Motor Works; or Bayerische Motoren Werke AG]):
    Hadid designed the "nerve-center" of a factory complex meant to bring together blue-collar and white-collar employees of this company. This company's headquarters resembles four vertical cylinders arranged in a tight square.

[B12] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This company has the European rights to manufacture Verner Panton's Heart Cone Chair and the Eames Lounge Chair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vitra):
    Name this Swiss furniture and design company that may be best known for its German campus at Weil am Rhein ("VILE" ahm RINE), which includes factories designed by SANAA and Alvaro Siza and a design museum by Frank Gehry.
  Part 2 (ans: Zaha Hadid):
    The Vitra campus' angular fire station was designed by this architect, who also designed the Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati and the London Aquatics Centre for the 2012 Summer Olympics.
  Part 3 (ans: Eero Saarinen [prompt on Saarinen; prompt on E. Saarinen; do not accept or prompt on "Eliel Saarinen"]):
    The Vitra Design Museum includes the Tulip Chair designed by this Finnish architect, who also designed the TWA Flight Center at JFK International Airport.

[B13] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One collaboration between these two museums resulted in a Rem Koolhaas-designed addition to the Venetian casino in Las Vegas. For the stated number of points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and the State Hermitage Museum):
    For five each, name these two museums that also collaborated on a still-unbuilt project in Vilnius. The one in New York was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright and features an upwardly-widening spiral design, while the one in St. Petersburg was founded by Catherine the Great.
  Part 2 (ans: Zaha Hadid [or Dame Zaha Mohammad Hadid]):
    For ten, the Vilnius Guggenheim Hermitage Museum was designed by what recently-deceased Iraqi-British architect of the Guangzhou Opera House and the Bridge Pavilion in Zaragoza?
  Part 3 (ans: Cincinnati, Ohio):
    For a final ten, Hadid's only work in the United States is the Rosenthal Center, which is in what US city? Other buildings in this city include the Venetian Gothic Music Hall.

[B14] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This city is home to the supertall CITIC plaza. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Guangzhou [or Canton]):
    Name this city, also home to a Joseph di Pasquale-designed giant "circle," the headquarter of its plastic exchange. An opera house in this city was built using a "twin-pebble design."
  Part 2 (ans: People's Republic of China [or PRC]):
    Guangzhou is in this country, also home to older architectural marvels like the Great Wall and the Forbidden City.
  Part 3 (ans: Zaha Hadid):
    The Guangzhou Opera House was designed by this Iraqi architect. She has designed the 2022 Qatar World Cup Stadium and the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Stadium, which has been criticized for looking like a giant bike helmet.

[B15] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Masjid Negara in this city had its pink roof replaced by green and blue tiles in the 1980s, and contains a minaret topped by a folded umbrella. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia):
    Identify this city, which contains the Caesar Pelli-designed Petronas Towers, which were also inspired by Islamic architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Jorn Utzon):
    This man designed the National Assembly Building in Kuwait. This proponent of additive architecture also designed a building engineered by Ove Arup and Co whose ceiling is a series of spherical shells.
  Part 3 (ans: Zaha Hadid):
    This other architect designed the Guangzhou Opera house and won the commission for the 2020 Olympic stadium in Tokyo. Her other designs include a ski jump in Innsbruck.
