=== STOCK CLUES: Ilya Repin ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Fall (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Russia [or Russian Federation; or Rossiya; accept Russian Empire or Rossiyskaya Imperiya; reject "Soviet Union" or "USSR"] (Ivan Shishkin and Konstantin Savitsky painted Morning in a Pine Forest. Ilya Repin painted Barge Haulers on the Volga.)
  - Two artists from this modern-day country collaborated on a painting of bears climbing on a fallen tree titled Morning in a Pine Forest.
  - In the essay "Avant-Garde and Kitsch," Clement Greenberg contrasted Picasso with a realist artist from this country who painted a desolate landscape traversed by barge haulers.
  - Traditional lubok prints from this country inspired works from the Cubo-Futurist and Suprematist movements.
  - The gold and tempera icon Trinity was painted in this country, whose House of Faberge produced a collection of prized jeweled eggs.
  - A leader from this country poses on a rearing horse in the Bronze Horseman sculpture.
  - For 10 points, name this country that contains the Hermitage museum in St. [GIVE]
  - Petersburg.

[T2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ilya Repin (The third clue refers to They Did Not Expect Him)
  - While studying under Maria Fortuny, this artist painted a sitting African woman nicknamed "Ebony" by critics.
  - This artist's young daughter sits on a branch with feet dangling in his portrait Dragonfly.
  - A hunched over woman wearing black sees her gaunt son walk through the door in a painting by this artist.
  - In 2018, a man with a metal pole vandalized a painting by this artist in which a cane lies on a blood red carpet below a ruler holding his bloodied son in his arms.
  - This member of the Wanderers painted mustached men surrounding a large table where a letter to the Turkish Sultan is being written.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of Barge Haulers on the Volga and Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks, who was a Russian painter. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ilya Repin
  - This artist refused to replace the three maids carrying an empty case shown in one of his paintings, at the left of which a bearded man in gray holds out his stick in front of a blonde boy who lurches forward. [PWR]
  - In another of this artist's paintings, fish swim overhead as a legendary merchant looks left at an underwater procession.
  - A fat man in a white fur cap and red clothes laughs in another of this man's paintings, whose central scene shows a man in black using a quill (*) pen to write an insulting letter to a sultan. [PWR]
  - This most prominent member of The Wanderers painted a religious procession with golden icons in one work, and showed eleven laborers struggling to pull a boat up a river in another.
  - For 10 points, name this 19th-century Russian artist of Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks and Barge Haulers on the Volga. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The English artist Emily Shanks painted scenes of young girls like Employing a Governess and Ear Inspection after becoming the first woman to join this art movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Wanderers [or The Itinerants or Peredvizhniki]):
    Name this artistic group that began as an offshoot of Realism. A member of this movement created a painting showing a maddened monarch clutching the body of the son he had just killed.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    This most famous member of the Wanderers showed a group of men laughing as they write a letter to Mehmed IV in his Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks. Some men pull a large boat from a river bank in his Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 3 (ans: landscapes [or landscape painting]):
    Ivan Shishkin and other members of the Wanderers mostly specialized in this genre of painting. The Barbizon school of Realism created many works in this genre, including views of farmlands and forests.

[B2] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man painted the art collector and textile tycoon Pavel Tretyakov standing in front of his collection. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ilya Repin [or Ilya Yefimovich Repin]):
    Identify this Realist artist who received a record-breaking payment for an 1891 painting depicting the title Zaporozhian Cossacks drafting a letter to Ottoman sultan Mehmed IV.
  Part 2 (ans: Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV Vasilyevich; or Ivan Grozny]):
    Igor Podporin smashed the glass on Repin's portrait of this 16th century Russian tsar cradling his dead son because he believed it was a "lie." This tsar's act of filicide led to the reign of his second son Fyodor.
  Part 3 (ans: surgeon [or anatomist or physician or medical doctor]):
    In 1888, Repin painted Evgeny Pavlov, a member of this profession. In 1889 Thomas Eakins finished a portrait of David Agnew, another man in this profession.

[B3] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A bearded man attempts to strike a blond boy with a stick on the left-hand side of this painting, while in the center a man in an orange robe walks amid a crowd of people swinging a censer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Religious Procession in Kursk Province):
    Name this painting depicting a group of Orthodox priests transporting an icon of the Virgin Mary.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    Religious Procession in Kursk Province is a work by this Realist painter, who also portrayed everyday scenes in other works like Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 3 (ans: sleep):
    The leader of the international Realist movement, Gustave Courbet [koor-BAY], painted two scenes of this activity, one depicting two nudes and the other a woman at a spinning wheel. A Toulouse-Lautrec painting is also titled for this activity.

[B4] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist arranged three skulls in his Pyramid of Skulls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Cezanne ("say-zahn")):
    Name this artist who also placed a skull next to a candle and book in a still life. This artist also depicted Mont Sainte-Victoire in increasingly abstract fashion beginning in the late 19th century.
  Part 2 (ans: The Ambassadors [or Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve]):
    An anamorphic skull is stretched across the ground in this painting. This painting by Hans Holbein the Younger depicts a lute and multiple globes on a shelf between the two title diplomats.
  Part 3 (ans: Russia [or Russian Empire; do not accept or prompt on "Soviet Union" or "USSR"] (The artists are Vasily Vereschagin and Ilya Repin; the Repin painting is Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks.)):
    An artist from this country depicted a large pyramid of skulls in his Apotheosis of War. Another artist from this country depicted a hefty man with a large mustache laughing while a man with a bowl cut is writing a letter.

[B5] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist was trained by Theophanes the Greek, and he collaborated with Daniel Chorni on his two most famous works. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrei Rublev):
    Name this artist whose Trinity depicts three people telling Abraham about the impending birth of his son, whose identities were disputed before being resolved at a 1551 council. He also created a painting of Christ for the Dormition Cathedral.
  Part 2 (ans: icons):
    Rublev was a famous painter of these objects, which are used in Orthodoxy as aids to worship. These objects frequently depict saints and were destroyed by Emperor Leo III during a namesake "clasm."
  Part 3 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    One painting by this later artist centers on an icon carried in a gilded shrine. That painting by this artist depicts a priest in golden robes and a hunchbacked boy trying and failing to enter the title Religious Procession in Kursk Province.

[B6] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Rosalind Krauss's 1985 essay titled for the "originality" of this concept begins by examining the "concept of a copy" with an exhibition of freshly made casts of Rodin sculptures. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: avant-garde):
    Name this concept. Another essay illustrates this concept with the poetry of T. S. Eliot and the art of Picasso, which the author contrasts with the mass culture of a Tin Pan Alley song and Saturday Evening Post cover.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    Clement Greenberg's essay suggests a peasant would prefer the kitsch works of this Russian realist over the avant-garde Picasso. He painted Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Cezanne):
    Jean-Francois Lyotard's essay "The Sublime and the Avant-Garde" highlights the "chromatic sensations" of this Post-Impressionist, who painted many still-lifes and scenes of Mont Sainte-Victoire.

[B7] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In May 2018, a man supposedly concerned with historical inaccuracy destroyed this man's painting of Ivan the Terrible and His Son Ivan with a metal pole. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ilya Repin (REP-in) [Ilya Yefimovich Repin]):
    Name this nineteenth-century Russian realist painter, whose scenes from Russian included Religious Procession in Kursk Province and Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 2 (ans: The Night Watch [or De Nachtwacht (NAHKT-vakht); or Militia Company of District II under the Command of Captain Frans Banninck Cocq; or The Shooting Company of Frans Banning Cocq and Willem van Ruytenburch]):
    One of the most infamous incidents of art vandalism was when this Rembrandt painting of a militia company was repeatedly sliced by William de Rijk (ryke), an unemployed schoolteacher.
  Part 3 (ans: Barnett Newman):
    This artist's color-field painting series titled Who's Afraid of Red, Yellow, and Blue? was twice vandalized by people who evidently were. One vandal thought it was a "perversion of the German flag" and the other wished to "take revenge on abstract art."

[B8] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting, these people are composing a text which asserts that "the Devil shits and your army swallow it", and insults the recipient as "a Macedonian mechanic" and "a nasty glob of spit". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaporozhian Cossacks [or Cossacks of Saporog]):
    Name this group of people, who in that work are seen laughing uproariously as they compose a reply to Mehmed IV's request for surrender.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    The Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks is among the paintings that this Russian artist created as a tribute to his Ukrainian homeland. He also painted some rather tired labourers in Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 3 (ans: Vasily Vereshchagin):
    This Russian contemporary of Repin depicted war in a rather more sombre and unflinching fashion in works like The Apotheosis of War, which shows a colossal pyramid of skulls in a desert.

[B9] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man visualized an eerie mermaid procession in his painting Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    Name this Russian realist painter and member of the Wanderers who painted Barge Haulers on the Volga. He depicted a crippled boy being beaten away from a crowd in Religious Procession in Kursk Province.
  Part 2 (ans: The Zaporozhian Cossacks):
    Repin illustrated the "reply" of these Slavic horsemen to Mehmed IV as well as showing them "on the Black Sea" and "dancing" in other works. In the first painting, they sit around a table laughing as they think of more insults to write.
  Part 3 (ans: Vasily Vasilyevich Vereshchagin (VERE-uh-SHAH-gin)):
    This other Russian artist and contemporary of the Wanderers made many anti-War paintings. His painting The Apotheosis of War, which shows a pyramid of skulls, is dedicated to "to all conquerors, past, present and to come."

[B10] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted a gleeful couple holding hands amidst crashing waves in his painting What Freedom! For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    Name this leader of The Wanderers, who also painted The Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks and Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 2 (ans: Russian Empire [accept Russia or Rossiya or Rossiyskaya Imperia]):
    Ilya Repin and other members of The Wanderers, such as Ivan Kramskoi and Viktor Vasnetsov, were from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: brown bears):
    Two other members of The Wanderers named Ivan Shishkin and Konstantin Savitsky collaborated on the painting Morning in a Pine Forest, which depicts a few of these animals amidst the underbrush.

[B11] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this painting the title figure grabs a sword by the blade as a man in chains grabs at his chest wondering why he is still alive. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saint Nicholas of Myra in Lycia [or Saint Nicholas Saves Three Innocents From Death]):
    Name this painting in which the title saint intercedes to save three men from their execution.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    This artist's realist paintings earned him a cult following in the Soviet Union. He depicted men wearing straps as they walk along the title river in another painting.
  Part 3 (ans: Ivan IV [or Ivan the Terrible or Ivan Grozny]):
    Ilya Repin painted a depiction of this man wide-eyed as he cradles the body of his son and tries to cover a wound on that son's head. A large bloody staff can be seen on the floor in front of this man.

[B12] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One artist from this nation produced the propaganda poster Beat the Whites with a Red Wedge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russia [or Soviet Union; or USSR]):
    Name this country, home of the Suprematist artist of White on White, Kazimir Malevich, as well as the icon painter Andrei Rublev.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    This Russian artist and premier member of the Wanderers depicted several men holding a rope over their shoulders in his Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 3 (ans: Sadko):
    Repin painted a work showing a precession of mermaids and fish on the left, while this mythical character stands on the right. That painting is titled after him "and the Underwater Kingdom".

[B13] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one of this artist's paintings shows a malnourished child in the background, while the central figure is looking on angrily in his Duchess Sophia in the Convent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    Identify this painter of such as The Raising of Jarius's Daughter and his more famous Reply of the Zaphrozian Cossacks to Sultan Mehmet.
  Part 2 (ans: Russia [I guess you can accept Soviet Union]):
    Ilya Repin was an artist from this country whose other famous artists painted such works as Compositions and I and the Village by Wasilly Kandinsky and Marc Chagall respectively.
  Part 3 (ans: Unexpected Visitor [Accept They Did not Expect Him]):
    This work by Ilya Repin depicts the astonishment of a group of teenage girls looking towards a man walking into the room from a hallway. The foreground of this painting shows the mother getting up out of her armchair.
