=== STOCK CLUES: Octavio Paz ===
Tossup questions: 16 found, 57 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 32 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: gardens [or jardines; accept "The Garden of Forking Paths" or "El jardin de senderos que se bifurcan"] (The Octavio Paz play adapts "Rappaccini's Daughter.")
  - A man working in one of these places lays down "among endless sheets" and begins transforming at the end of a story by Silvina Ocampo. [PWR]
  - A messenger matches five characters with Tarot figures in Octavio Paz's theatrical adaptation of a story mainly set in one of these places. [PWR]
  - The narrator of a story titled for one of these places hears about two victorious armies who marched through a rocky pass and a palace respectively, and laments his (*) "infinite penitence and sickness of the heart." In a story titled for one of these places, the narrator turns left at every crossroads to reach a home in Ashgrove, where he shoots a scholar to transmit a bombing target's name. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, the sinologist Stephen Albert introduces Yu Tsun to a labyrinthine book in a story titled for what kind of place by Jorge Luis Borges? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz [Octavio Paz Lozano]
  - This author characterized poetry as "between what I see and what I say" in a letter to Roman Jakobson.
  - The title elements of a poem by this author go "crossing and vanishing through their empty names" and respectively sing, murmur, and keep still in a rock-paper-scissors relationship.
  - This author imagined "water behind a stillness of closed eyelids... pouring prophecies" in a poem translated by Eliot Weinberger.
  - This poet of "Wind, Water, Stone" wrote a poem whose speaker goes "among your body as among the world." The "turning course of a river" is one of the six lines that both begin and end a calendar-based poem by this author.
  - "A willow of crystal, a poplar of water" are described in, for 10 points, which Mexican author's "Sunstone?" [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz
  - In a story by this author, the narrator moves into his apartment with an ocean wave he meets at the beach. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem by this author notes how he has "forgotten your name, Melusina, / Laura, Isabel, Persephone, Mary." The lines "now you resemble the sharp edge of a sword / and now the executioner's bowl of blood," mark a shift in tone in a poem by this author. [PWR]
  - This author behind the poetry collection (*) Eagle or Sun? also wrote "The Monkey Grammarian" which was influenced by his time as ambassador to India. [PWR]
  - This author of Traps of Faith, wrote an existential poem which opens and closes with the description of a "willow of crystal, a poplar of water" among its 584 lines.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of Sunstone, who also wrote Labyrinth of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop (The first line refers to "Objects & Apparitions," a translation of Octavio Paz by Bishop included in Geography III.)
  - A poem that this author reveals to be an Octavio Paz translation states, "Memory weaves, unweaves the echoes" and is dedicated to Joseph Cornell.
  - In a poem that this author dedicated to her aunt Grace Bulmer Bowers, the title animal "sniffs at the bus's hot hood" and has "an acrid / smell of gasoline." The speaker of a poem by this author describes "the kite sticks of the Southern Cross." That poem by this author of "The Moose" opens with a description of "the frail, illegal fire balloons" and is dedicated to Robert Lowell.
  - This author's collection Geography III includes a poem that ends, "though it may look like disaster" with the parenthetical "(Write it!)." For 10 points, name this author of "The Armadillo," who wrote "The art of losing isn't hard to master" in "One Art." [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano]
  - This author discussed a woman who tried to "reconcile illuminism and the Baroque" and was "superior both to her society and her culture" in an essay that describes her world as "closed to the future." Another essay by this author discusses the phrase "I am your father" and defines a term as "the Mother forcibly opened, violated or deceived." This author returned to the subject of the essay "The Conquest and Colonialism" in The Traps of Faith, a biography of Sor Juana.
  - This author described a "river that goes curving, advances and retreats... arriving forever" in a poem based on the Aztec calendar.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican author of The Labyrinth of Solitude, who wrote about a "willow of crystal" and "poplar of water" in the poem "Sunstone." [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano] (The lead-in is from "Translation: Literature and Literality.")
  - An essay by this author opens with the remark, "Learning to speak is learning to translate." Over four days in a Paris basement in 1969, this author worked with Jacques Roubaud, Edoardo Sanguineti, and Charles Tomlinson to compose a quadrilingual set of renga. [PWR]
  - In a translation, this author used the less literal words "illuminates" and "ascends" to better capture the spiritual meaning of a line about sunlight shining onto green moss. [PWR]
  - This author wrote the afterword to his friend's study of (*) nineteen different translations of the poem "Deer Park" by Wang Wei. [PWR]
  - That friend, Eliot Weinberger, translated the first and last lines of a poem by this author as, "a course of a river that turns, moves on, doubles back, and comes full circle," and "a crystal willow, a poplar of water." For 10 points, name this Mexican poet of "Sunstone." [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano]
  - This author describes poetry's entwining of "our voice and the other voice" in a book that characterizes American poetic dreams as "attempts to escape from the American nightmare." This author claims that the only great modern poet who does not experience inconformity is Walt Whitman in an essay collection titled after Heraclitus' metaphor for the unity of opposites.
  - This author claims that a title concept is "the profoundest fact of the human condition" in an essay that discusses the (*) macho figure as one of the figurative "masks" worn by this author's countrymen. [PWR]
  - A book-length essay by this author contains the sections "The Sons of La Malinche" and "The Day of the Dead." For 10 points, name this Mexican author of The Bow and the Lyre and The Labyrinth of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T8] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano]
  - A book of criticism by this author claims that the poetic experience "transmutes man... into an image," which he defines as "a space where opposites fuse." This author, who predicted the end of the avant-garde in his book Children of the Mire, named that book of criticism after two objects in a fragment by Heraclitus. [PWR]
  - This author wrote, "I've forgotten your name, Melusina / Laura, Isabel, Persephone, Mary," in a poem addressing a feminine figure whom he tells, "I (*) travel your body, like the world." This author explored the motivations that led Sor Juana to become a nun in a biography of her subtitled The Traps of Faith.
  - This author of The Bow and the Lyre wrote, "willow of crystal, a poplar of water" to open a 584-line poem based on the synodic period of Venus.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican author of "Sunstone." [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz (Lozano)
  - An essay by this author discusses their idea that "death was not the natural end of life but one phase of an infinite cycle." This author included the essays "Dostoevski: The Devil and the Ideologue" and "Considering Solzhenitsyn: Dust After Mud" in their collection On Poets and Others.
  - This author describes "a journey in the galleries of sound" in a poem whose halfway point is the line "Madrid, 1937." A hybrid work by this author imagines visiting a shrine at the temple city of Galta.
  - This author wrote a biography of the nun Sor Juana in The Traps of Faith.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican author who included the essays "The Conquest and Colonialism" and "The Day of the Dead" in the collection The Labyrinth of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T10] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz (The unnamed poem is "Sunstone.")
  - An essay by this author imagines a successful man named "No One" and his son "Nobody," who would bring about a "prehistoric silence." Another essay by this author contrasts the phrase "I am your father" with a term referring to a violated woman. [PWR]
  - This author called the title concept "the profoundest fact of the human condition" and compared attitudes of hermeticism to (*) masks in a book that also describes his country's citizens as descendants of a traitorous concubine.
  - This author of "The Sons of La Malinche" described a river that "doubles back, and comes full circle" in a poem bookended by the line "willow of crystal, a poplar of water" and modeled after the Aztec calendar.
  - For 10 points, name this author who discussed his home country of Mexico in The Labyrinth of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T11] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Wang Wei (or 王维) [The Spanish translation is by Octavio Paz.]
  - In an essay, a translation of this poet that uses the words "antistrophic" and "earminded" is compared to "Gerard Manley Hopkins on LSD." This poet is the subject of the maxim "in his poems, there are paintings." A translation of this poet replaces " shang ," (shong) meaning "above" or "on top," with a conjugation of the verb "to rise." The similar characters " ren " (ren) and " ru " (roo) appear one above the other at the center of a poem by this author. [PWR]
  - One author used the (*) impersonal pronoun " se " (say) to translate a line by this author as "Solo se oyen, lejos, voces" (SO-lo say OY-en, LAY-hos, VOH-says) .
  - Burton Watson translated that line by this poet as "only the sound of someone talking." Gary Snyder translated this poet's line " kong shan bu jian ren " (kong shon boo zhan ren) as "Empty mountains: / No one to be seen." Eliot Weinberger discussed the difficulties in translating this poet in his essay "Nineteen Ways of Looking at" this poet.
  - For 10 points, name this Tang Dynasty poet of "Deer Park." [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz Lozano
  - This man collaborated with Jacques Roubaud, Edoardo Sanguineti, and Charles Tomlinson on Renga, and with Samuel Beckett on an anthology of his country's poetry. [PWR]
  - One poem by this man tells the "lady of midnight," "I travel your length like a river, I travel your body like a forest," and another states, "Between seeing and making, contemplation or action, I chose the act of words." He began one work "If to say 'no' to the world for now." This poet of (*) "Solo for two voices" and "San Ildefonso Nocturne" wrote a 584-line work that begins "willow of crystal, a poplar of water," and is based on the Aztec calendar.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican poet of "Sunstone." [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz
  - This author asked the question "At what hour do the hours end?" in a poem that notes "I too await the coming of my hour, I exist" titled "The Clerk's Vision." A poem by this author that states "I go among your body as among the world" has a structure based on the synodic period of Venus.
  - In that surrealist poem by this author, the last six lines are the same as the first six lines, which describe a river that "advances and retreats" and is "winding forever." This author collected prose poems in (*) Eagle or Sun? [PWR]
  - A 584-line poem by this author opens with "a willow of crystal, a poplar of water" and is titled for an Aztec relic.
  - For 10 points, what author wrote the poem "Sun Stone" and the essays in The Labyrinth of Solitude about the heritage of his native Mexico? [GIVE]

[T14] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz
  - This author wrote an adaptation, inspired by Yeats, Noh theatre and Vishakadatta of "Rappaccini's Daughter" and in one lecture linked "expulsion from the present" with the writing of poetry.
  - This author added "Post Data" to one of his works after a student massacre and this author wrote about a "willow of crystal" in a circular poem based on the Aztec calendar.
  - As well as writing the poetry collection The Monkey Grammarian, he included "The Conquest and Colonialism" and "The Day of the Dead" amongst a series of essays on his home country.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican author of "Sunstone" and The Labyrinth of Solitude [GIVE]

[T15] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz Lozano
  - This author describes a city branded "on every door / on every forehead / the $ sign," before saying "We never arrive / Never reach where we are." Another of this author's poems notes "today is the winter solstice / in the world... today is the world." This author also wrote, "I grope my way through corridors of time" before asking, "Mary, Persephone, Heloise, show me / your face." That poem by this author of "Return" and (*) "Solo for Two Voices" ends describing "a river that turns, moves on, doubles back, and comes full circle" and is framed by the image of "a crystal willow, a poplar of water." This author wrote a work in which the 584 lines correspond to the days in the Aztec calendar, and he also wrote the essay "The Day of the Dead." For 10 points, name this author of Sunstone as well as the essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude. [GIVE]

[T16] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Octavio Paz
  - In one poem, this author proclaims that "Poetry, like history, is made; poetry, like truth is seen." He wrote "I saw the mountains of the sages / Where the wind mangles eagles" in a collection in which he describes "me[eting] the wind of the hundred days" at a "blue-and-green mosque." Eric Whitacre's choral work Cloudburst sets this author's poem "The Broken Water Jar." Another of his poems begins and ends with six lines describing a "tree that is firmly rooted and that dances, turning course of a river that goes curving." He wrote "I voyage your body... as by a footpath going up a mountain / and suddenly coming upon a steep ravine" in that poem, which begins by describing "a willow of crystal, a poplar of water" and consists of 584 lines.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican author of "San Ildefonso Nocturne," who described India in East Slope, and used the Aztec calendar as the basis for his poem "Sun Stone." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's posthumous play The Eternal Feminine imagines a conversation between notable women in Mexican history, including Sor Juana. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rosario Castellanos):
    Name this pioneering feminist author of Ciudad Real and The Book of Lamentations, who described how sometimes your "measuring stick breaks" and "your compass goes missing" in her confessional poem "Valium 10."
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    This other Mexican author wrote about the challenges faced by Sor Juana in The Traps of Faith. This author discussed Mexicans as the sons of "La Malinche" in his essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Christine de Pizan [accept Cristina da Pizzano; prompt on Christine or de Pizan; prompt on Christina or da Pizzano]):
    Sor Juana's defense of women's education, Reply to Sister Philotea, mentions the pioneering role of Teresa of Avila but fails to mention this author, who used famous women as the "building blocks" for her "city of ladies."

[B2] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: In The Cosmic Race, a philosopher from this country argued that the mixing of four races will lead to the development of a universal race with heightened aesthetic sensitivity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mexico [or the United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos] (The Cosmic Race is by Jose Vasconcelos. The second clue refers to "The Sons of La Malinche" from Octavio Paz's Labyrinth of Solitude.)):
    Name this home country of an essayist who described how its men see themselves as sons of an archetypal "violated woman."
  Part 2 (ans: inferiority complex):
    Samuel Ramos analyzed the overcompensating pelado culture to argue that post-revolutionary Mexican society suffered from this complex. The title of Fanon's Black Skin, White Masks refers to his theory that Black people epidermalize this complex studied by Alfred Adler.
  Part 3 (ans: nepantla):
    The Mexican existentialist Emilio Uranga described this status as the "central category" of Mexican being. Gloria Anzaldua named this sort of "in-betweenness" after a Nahuatl word for the space between bodies of water.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the poet and playwright Xavier Villaurrutia ("vee-ya-oo-ROO-tee-ah"), for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: love [or amor; accept "Nuestro amor" or "Our Love"; accept Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair or Veinte poemas de amor y una cancion desesperada]):
    This feeling is called "a secret, a torment, a doubt, a questioning" in Villaurrutia's poem "Nuestro [this feeling]." Twenty poems about this feeling precede a "Song of Despair" in a Pablo Neruda collection.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    This student of Villaurrutia wrote the essay "Hieroglyphs of Desire" about his work. This author's poem Blanco, written in Delhi, was intended to be published as a scroll of differently-colored sections split between the page's left and right sides.
  Part 3 (ans: death [or muerte; accept Sonnets of Death or Sonetos de la Muerte; accept Nostalgia for Death or Nostalgia por la muerte] (Sonnets of Death is by Gabriela Mistral.)):
    Villaurrutia's major poetry collection is titled Nostalgia for this noun. The line "From the icy niche where men placed you" opens the first of a series of sonnets titled for this noun that are dedicated to Romelio Ureta.

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a story is arrested on charges of poisoning after boarding a train with this character, who inspires him to note, "Everything began to laugh and everywhere white teeth shone." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the wave [or la ola; accept "My Life with the Wave" or "Mi vida con la ola"]):
    Name this character whom the narrator pursues a brief affair with after meeting her at a beach in a short prose piece from the collection Eagle or Sun?, titled "My Life with" her.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano] (The poem is "Sunstone.")):
    "My Life with the Wave" is among this author's works translated by his friend Eliot Weinberger, who also translated his 584-line poem based on the Aztec calendar.
  Part 3 (ans: chac-mool [prompt on idols or statues or sculptures]):
    The anthology Sun, Stone, and Shadows follows "My Life with the Wave" with a story from Carlos Fuentes's Burnt Water, in which Filiberto drowns after one of these objects he purchases comes to life and floods his home.

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote the lines "I jumped from myself to dawn / I left my body next to the light / and sang the sadness of being born." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alejandra Pizarnik [or Flora Pizarnik]):
    Name this Argentinian poet of The Tree of Diana. This author pulled from a Hieronymus Bosch painting for her collection Extracting the Stone of Madness.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz [Octavio Paz Lozano]):
    This Mexican poet wrote the prologue to The Tree of Diana. He described "a crystal willow, a poplar of water" in his poem "Sunstone."
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar [Julio Florencio Cortazar]):
    While living in Paris, Pizarnik agreed to type up a manuscript by this author, but then lost it. That novel by this author is about Horacio Oliveira and the Serpent Club.

[B6] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this first name wrote a pioneering magical realist novel in which time stops as Hurtado and Julia escape from the bloodthirsty General Rosas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena [accept Elena Poniatowska; accept Elena Garro; accept Helene Poniatowska]):
    Give this first name, shared by the author of Memories of the Future and an author with the surname Poniatowska who wrote an oral history of a massacre of Mexican students in The Night of Tlatelolco.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    Elena Poniatowska wrote a biography of this Mexican author, who was also the husband of Elena Garro. This author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: dogs [accept perros] (The Garro story is "The day we were dogs," and the second story is Juan Rulfo's"Don't you hear the dogs barking?")):
    The protagonists of a short story by Elena Garro wake up one day transformed into these animals. A man carries his wounded son, the bandit Ignacio, in a short story titled for a sound made by these animals.

[B7] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A Brazilian group of "verbivocovisual" poets took their name from a stanza by this poet in which Emil Levy exclaims "Noigandres, eh, noigandres, / now what the DEFFIL can that mean!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound]):
    A Gonzalo Rojas poem advises "don't copy" what "incredible copier"? This poet loosely translated Chinese poems in the collection Cathay.
  Part 2 (ans: the tribe [or la tribu; accept dialect of the tribe, mots de la tribu, tribal words or other English phrases containing word forms of tribe]):
    The Noigandres manifesto cites Pound's phrase "antennae of the race" along with a phrase from "The Tomb of Edgar Poe" about this group. The "familiar compound ghost" from "Little Gidding" quotes Stephane Mallarme's ideal of poets "purifying" the "dialect" of this group.
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano]):
    Julian Rios, who wrote of purifying the "lingo of the Kabyles" in Larva and paid homage to Pound in Poundemonium, was mentored by this poet. This poet's friend Eliot Weinberger translated his book In Light of India.

[B8] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A mentally ill poet from this country wrote of "the distance from here to a star that has never existed - because God has not pinched the skin of the night that far" in his Song of Space. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Nicaragua):
    Name this country where an earlier poet indulged in his Pythagorean philosophy with lines like "you are a universe of universes, / and your soul a fountain of song" in his poem "Love Your Rhythm."
  Part 2 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    This co-founder of modernismo with Leopoldo Lugones wrote "Love Your Rhythm" and the collection Azul...
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Irineo Paz Lozano]):
    This Mexican writer wrote about Dario seeking "a beauty that is beyond beauty" in his essay "The Siren and the Seashell." His other writings include The Labyrinth of Solitude.

[B9] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem by an author from this country says, "The desire to die is king. / May your body always be / a beloved space for revelations." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic or Republica Argentina] (The novel is Hopscotch by Julio Cortazar, who Pizarnik befriended in Paris.)):
    Name this birth country of Alejandra Pizarnik. An author who grew up in this country wrote "Axolotl" and a 55-chapter novel with 9 "expendable chapters" that can be read in two different sequences.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    After moving from Argentina to Paris, Pizarnik befriended this author, who wrote the prologue for her collection The Tree of Diana. This Mexican author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: stones [or piedra; accept "Black Stone on a White Stone" or "Black Stone Lying on a White Stone" or "Piedra negra sobre una piedra blanca" or Extracting the Stone of Madness or Extraccion de la piedra de locura]):
    Pizarnik included the poem "Revelations" in a 1968 collection titled for one of these objects. In a Cesar Vallejo poem titled for these objects, the speaker says "I will die in Paris, on a rainy day."

[B10] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story from Sergio Pitol's ("SAIR-hee-oh pee-TOLL's") collection Mephisto's Waltz, this animal gives the narrator a message of "twelve enlightening words." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: panthers [accept black panthers; prompt on big cats or felines or Cat People; prompt on black leopards] (The novel is Manuel Puig's Kiss of the Spider Woman.)):
    A novel by a different author opens with a man's description of a young woman from the Carpathians painting what type of animal at a zoo?
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; reject "Estados Unidos"] (Octavio Paz wrote "Sunstone.")):
    Pitol's story "The Panther" is included in Sun, Stone, and Shadows, an anthology of stories from this country. This country is home to the author of the poem "Sunstone."
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Rulfo [or Juan Nepomuceno Carlos Perez Rulfo Vizcaino; prompt on Vizcaino] (The novel is Pedro Paramo.)):
    Sun, Stone, and Shadows also includes this author's story "Tell Them Not to Kill Me!", which is part of his collection The Burning Plain. In a novel by this author, the title tyrant lets the town die of hunger out of spite while he is mourning Susana's death.

[B11] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Helen Edmundson's 2012 play The Heresy of Love is based on the life of this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana [or Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana; prompt on de la Cruz or de Asbaje or de Santillana] (Octavio Paz wrote The Traps of Faith.)):
    Name this author who defended women's rights to education in a letter that is discussed in the book The Traps of Faith.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or Mejico; or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; reject "Estados Unidos"]):
    Sor Juana wrote her Reply to Sister Filotea while serving as a nun in this modern-day country. Her play The Divine Narcissus links Christ's crucifixion to the human sacrifices performed by this country's native Aztecs.
  Part 3 (ans: cooking [or making food; accept making drinks or making hot chocolate; accept baking or culinary work or being a chef or similar] (The novel is Like Water for Chocolate.)):
    The Reply to Sister Filotea claims that if Aristotle had done this activity, he would have written much more. Tita de la Garza expresses herself through this activity in a 1989 Laura Esquivel novel, whose title references this activity.

[B12] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet began an epic poem with "'It's a beautiful country,' / Toscanelli had told Columbus." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ernesto Cardenal (Martinez)):
    Name this Nicaraguan poet who wrote about Central American history in The Doubtful Straight and Zero Hour. This Catholic priest founded a primitivist commune of peasants and artists on the Solentiname Islands.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz (Lozano)):
    In his essay "Here People Talk to God," this author recalls growing up at a Catholic grammar school and looking at photos of Mexican churches. This author wrote the essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Sor Juana (Ines de la Cruz)):
    This Mexican nun wrote about the spread of Catholicism in the Americas in Loa to Divine Narcissus. This subject of Paz's The Traps of Faith wrote of a "Pyramidal / death-born shadow of earth."

[B13] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A cyclical poem by this author describes a river as "a willow of crystal; a poplar of water" in both its beginning and end. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    Name this author of "Sunstone" who described the development of post-colonial Mexican culture in his essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 2 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]):
    Octavio Paz wrote a biography of this early Mexican feminist titled The Traps of Faith. This poet and nun sarcastically referred to herself as "the worst of all women" while defending women's education in her Reply to Sister Filotea.
  Part 3 (ans: "First Dream" [or "Primero sueno"]):
    Sor Juana wrote about a "pyramidal death-born shadow of Earth" in this gigantic poem. It ends with the sun "dispensing their colors to visible things" and "keeping... the World illuminated" so that she can "awake."

[B14] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet analogised their unusual influences to saying that their wife was Spanish, but '[their] mistress is in Paris' in the introduction to their collection Prosas profanas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    Name this poet, whose influences from French Symbolist poetry run through their collection Azul. This Nicaraguan poet claimed their style of modernismo was 'Spanish verse... passed through the sieve of French verse'.
  Part 2 (ans: Alejandra Pizarnik):
    French symbolism heavily influenced this Argentine poet's 1968 collection Extracting the Stone of Madness, published shortly after their suicide from a drug overdose. They also wrote The Tree of Diana.
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    The introduction to Pizarnik's The Tree of Diana was written by this Mexican poet of "Sunstone" and the essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.

[B15] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker builds "a funeral, eating the dirt along the way - queen of pica, pilferer of misery feasts" in a poem by this author titled "Self-Portrait as a Chimera." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Natalie Diaz):
    Name this author of the poetry collection When My Brother Was An Aztec, a Mojave-American poet.
  Part 2 (ans: "Sunstone" [or "Piedra de sol"] (by Octavio Paz)):
    The speaker contemplates "resurrection flower, grape of life, / lady of the flute and the lightning-flash" in this poem titled for an Aztec artifact. It begins with the line, "A crystal willow, a poplar of water."
  Part 3 (ans: Laura Esquivel (The novels are Malinche and Like Water For Chocolate.)):
    Mallinalli falls in love with Hernan Cortes after identifying him with the Aztec god Quetzalcoatl in a novel by this author, who ended the 12th "monthly installment" of another novel with a scene in which the ghosts of Tita de la Garza and Pedro set fire to a ranch.

[B16] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A "Feminist Rereading" of this poem by Georgina Sabat de Rivers partly examines the feminine past participle in its final words, which translate to "as daylight breaks on the illuminated world and I awake." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "First Dream" [or "Primero Sueno"]):
    Name this silva poem, which opens by describing a shadow that is "pyramidal" ("pih-RAM-ih-dull") and "funereal" ("fyoo-NEE-ree-ul").
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, the poet of "First Dream," was studied in this poet's book The Traps of Faith.
  Part 3 (ans: the Sun [accept "Sun Stone" or "Piedra de Sol"]):
    Paz is best known for a 584-line poem titled for a "Stone" that resembles or is related to this celestial body, which also appears as a recurring symbol in Sor Juana's "First Dream."

[B17] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Julia Alvarez's novel How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents, their father Carlos is approached by agents of Rafael Trujillo in a chapter titled for "The Blood of [these people]". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: conquistadors):
    Identify these people who are said to harm "La Chingada" and are compared to "chingones" in one essay.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz Lozano):
    The aforementioned essay, "The Sons of La Malinche", is collected along with other essays regarding Mexican culture and history including "The Day of the Dead" and "The Conquest and Colonialism" in The Labyrinth of Solitude by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Yo, el Supremo [or I, the Supreme]):
    Strongmen are commonly depicted in the genre of dictator novels, which include this Augusto Roa Bastos work in which Dr. Francia finds a note on a cathedral door describing how his funeral should be celebrated.

[B18] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel includes a sheet of aluminum meant to serve as a mirror. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Divina Trace):
    Name this debut novel by Robert Antoni, in which Johnny Domingo learns the story of Magdalena, a nun who is nearly canonized after giving birth to a "frog-child" on the fictional island of Corpus Christi.
  Part 2 (ans: Hanuman):
    The middle section of Divina Trace is narrated by this monkey god, whose tail is set on fire by Ravana in the Ramayana.
  Part 3 (ans: The Monkey Grammarian [or El mono gramatico] (by Octavio Paz)):
    This 1974 book analyzes the origins of language through the figures of Hanuman and an idealized woman named "Splendor." It was inspired by its author's journey to the ruined temples of Galta.

[B19] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In its early years, this group stood on the backs of flatbed trucks and performed commedia dell'arte inspired comic skits known as actos. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: El Teatro Campesino [or The Farmworkers' Theater; or The Peasant Theater]):
    Identify this pioneering Chicano drama troupe founded by Luis Valdez during the 1965 Delano grape strike as the cultural wing of the United Farm Workers.
  Part 2 (ans: pachucos):
    The signature piece in the repertoire of El Teatro Campesino is Valdez's play Zoot Suit, which examines this flamboyant Mexican American youth culture. An essay on these people "and Other Extremes" describes their desire to flaunt their differences from American and Mexican culture.
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz (Lozano)):
    "The Pachuco and Other Extremes" is the first essay in this Mexican poet's book The Labyrinth of Solitude.

[B20] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this author's work The Dream, the narrator's body falls asleep and her soul ascends to contemplate all existence, starting with a fountain and a flower. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [accept either underlined portion; accept Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana; prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this Mexican nun and writer who defended women's right to education in Reply to Sister Philotea and wrote "I, the worst of all women."
  Part 2 (ans: labyrinth [accept Love is More a Labyrinth or The Labyrinth of Solitude]):
    Sor Juana titled a work with the phrase "Love is More" [one of these things]. Another work titled after one of these things includes sections like "Mexican Mask" and "The Sons of La Malinche."
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    The Labyrinth of Solitude is by this other Mexican writer of Sunstone, who wrote a biography of Sor Juana in The Traps of Faith.

[B21] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the 1920s, an essayist from this country argued that notions of ethnic superiority could be transcended through the development of a "cosmic race." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mexico [or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]):
    Name this home country of Jose Vasconcelos. In The Book of Lamentations, Rosario Castellanos ("kah-stay-YAH-nos") fictionalized an indigenous revolt during the creation of ejidos in this country.
  Part 2 (ans: La Malinche [or Malinalli, Malintzin, or Dona Marina]):
    In an essay, Castellanos argued that this woman represents either a "traitor" or a "foundress" in modern-day thought. Elena Garro's short story "Blame the Tlaxcaltecs" ("t'loss-CALL-tex") is a modern retelling of this woman's narrative.
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    This husband of Elena Garro wrote about Mexican identity in an essay about "The Sons of La Malinche," which appears in his book The Labyrinth of Solitude. His poetry collection Sunstone was inspired by the Aztec calendar.

[B22] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes the author's soul rising from her sleeping body and travelling through space before it finally reaches the pyramids of Egypt. For 10 points,
  Part 1 (ans: "First Dream" [or "Primero sueno"]):
    Name this poem.The book The Traps of Faith analyzes this poem as an allegory for its author's desire for knowledge.
  Part 2 (ans: Sor Juana [or Juana Ines de la Cruz]):
    This author of "First Dream" became a hit at the Viceroy of Mexico's court as a child prodigy, but abruptly left to become a nun. She wrote the "Reply to Sor Filotea" as a defense of intellectual freedom when the Church tried to suppress her nonreligious writing.
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz ):
    The literary biography Sor Juana, Or, the Traps of Faith was written by this critic who also discussed Sor Juana's place in Mexican identity in The Labyrinth of Solitude. His own poetry includes the Aztec-inspired "Sunstone."

[B23] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote about pogrom victims in his epic poem In the City of Slaughter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hayim (Nahman) Bialik):
    Name this compiler of The Book of Legends, who gives his name to a major Israeli literary award.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz (Lozano)):
    Another literary award from Israel is the Jerusalem Prize, which was won in 1977 by this poet of "Sunstone," who analyzed his home country of Mexico in The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Costello [accept either name]):
    Another Jerusalem Prize winner, J. M. Coetzee, created this character, who writes a James Joyce adaptation called The House on Eccles Street in her namesake novel, and also appears in The Lives of Animals and Slow Man.

[B24] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book suggests placing onions on your head to avoid crying when you chop them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Like Water for Chocolate [or Como agua para chocolate]):
    Name this 1989 novel about Tita, who is bullied by Mama Elena and finds release in cooking. She loves Pedro and dies in a fire caused by her eating matches after his death.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano]):
    Along with Like Water for Chocolate, Laura Esquivel also wrote a novel about La Malinche, whose "sons" were discussed by this Mexican author in an essay from his book The Labyrinth of Solitude. He also wrote Sun Stone.
  Part 3 (ans: H. Rider Haggard [or Henry Rider Haggard]):
    La Malinche also appears in Montezuma's Daughter, a novel by this British author of She. This adventure novelist introduced the character of Allan Quatermain in his novel King Solomon's Mines.

[B25] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book claims that "death as nostalgia, rather than as the fruition or end of life, is death as origin" in a discussion of Nostalgia for Death by Xavier Villaurrutia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Labyrinth of Solitude [or El Laberinto de la Soledad]):
    Name this essay collection that discusses how the author's country's identity is influenced by Spanish and indigenous culture. This collection includes "The Conquest and Colonialism" and "The Day of the Dead."
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Paz Lozano]):
    This Mexican author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude and was inspired by the Aztec calendar to write his 584-line poem "Sunstone."
  Part 3 (ans: Pachuco [or Pachuca; or "The Pachuco and Other Extremes"]):
    The first chapter of The Labyrinth of Solitude discusses the clothing worn by this title subculture, described by Paz as "youths who form gangs in Southern cities."
