=== STOCK CLUES: An Essay on Man ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 15 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope (The second line refers to "An Essay on Man.")
  - This author wrote a poem for the birthday of his friend and possible lover Martha Blount. [PWR]
  - The first section of a poem by this author, which Voltaire called "the most sublime didactic poem ever," asks if "the great chain" is "upheld by God, or thee?" The pamphlet Shakespeare Restored attacked the "many errors" in this author's revision of Shakespeare. [PWR]
  - It's not by Jonathan Swift, but a poem by this author addressed "To a Lady" uses Sappho as a stand-in to attack (*) Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.
  - This author wrote a fourth book for a mock-epic that replaced its target of Lewis Theobald with Colley Cibber and follows the goddess Dulness.
  - The phrases "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" and "damn with faint praise" are from a poem by this author written as a letter addressed to Dr.
  - Arbuthnot.
  - For 10 points, name this English author of The Dunciad. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: "An Essay on Man"
  - This poem claims that everything in nature is like "bubbles on the sea," in that "they rise, they break, and to that sea return." Vladimir Nabokov took the name "Zembla" from a place mentioned in this poem, whose second part declares that, faced with vice, "we first endure, then pity, then embrace." This poem's description of a "poor Indian, whose untutor'd mind / Sees God in clouds, or hears him in the wind" is an oft-invoked example of the noble savage. [PWR]
  - The first of the four (*) epistles that constitute this poem is about the Great Chain of Being, of which the speaker says that "All are but parts of one stupendous whole, whose body Nature is, and God the soul." This poem is the source of aphorisms like "Hope springs eternal in the human breast," "The proper study of mankind is man," and "Whatever is, is right." For 10 points, name this long poem about humanity by Alexander Pope. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: "An Essay on Man"
  - One section of this poem imagines that men with preternatural senses of smell and hearing would "die of a rose in aromatic pain" or wish they could only hear "the whispering Zephyr, and the purling rill." This poem discounts the importance of renown by calling Bacon the "wisest, brightest, meanest of mankind" and asserting that Cromwell is "damned to everlasting fame." This poem praises a "poor Indian" whose "faithful dog" will guide him to a heaven where "No Fiends torment, no Christians thirst for gold!" This poem argues that "all are but (*) parts in one stupendous whole" in advising its subject not to break a "vast chain of being, which from God began." This poem advises its addressee, Lord Bolingbroke, to "know thyself, presume not God to scan," and is the source of the line "hope springs eternal in the human breast." For 10 points, name this poem in four epistles, written to "vindicate the ways of God to man" by Alexander Pope. [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: "An Essay on Man"
  - In the preface to this work, its author noted that he chose verse because principles, maxims, and precepts "strike the reader more strongly at first." Its last section opens by stating "Oh, happiness, our being's end and aim" and later notes that "St John dwells with thee". [PWR]
  - Starting with the second section of this work, all chapters of this poem are listed as epistles. [PWR]
  - The lines (*) "Beast, bird, fish, insect, what no eye can see/No glass can reach; from Infinite to thee" appear in a discussion of the great chain of being in this poem.
  - In its third section, this poem tells the reader to "Know thyself, presume not God to scan" before noting that the proper study is the title being.
  - For 10 points, name this philosophical poem in five chapters by Alexander Pope. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about references to British poetry made in Vladimir Nabokov's Pale Fire, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "An Essay on Man" (by Alexander Pope)):
    King Charles' homeland of Zembla is a reference to this poem, which expounds an optimistic philosophy based on the Great Chain of Being. This poem notes that "whatever is, is right."
  Part 2 (ans: John Keats):
    The poem "Pale Fire" refers to the Red Sox beating the Yankees 5-4 "On Chapman's Homer," a reference to this author. This author also wrote "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Browning [prompt on Browning]):
    In Kinbote's notes, a boy points to a spot in Dulwich Forest where his "papa pisses," a reference to this author's "Pippa Passes." The speaker of one of this author's poems looks at a painting made by Fra Pandolf.

[B2] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem sums up its author's Tory views on politics as "For forms of government let fools contest / Whate'er is best administered is best". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: An Essay on Man):
    Name this didactic poem which describes its central subject as "Plac'd on this isthmus of a middle state / A being darkly wise, and rudely great". It states that pride is found "in erring reason's spite".
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    An Essay on Man is by this British poet of the satirical epics The Rape of the Lock and The Dunciad.
  Part 3 (ans: the great chain of being [prompt on chain]):
    An Essay on Man states that this concept "draws all to agree" and asks the reader whether it is "upheld by God, or Thee?" A book by Arthur Lovejoy examines the history of this medieval idea of a hierarchy of creation.

[B3] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's first section goes on and on about the great chain of being and how pride makes people dissatisfied with their divinely-ordered place in it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "An Essay on Man"):
    Name this didactic poem by Alexander Pope, whose second epistle advises "Know then thyself, presume not God to scan."
  Part 2 (ans: "Whatever IS, is RIGHT"):
    The first epistle of "An Essay on Man" notoriously ends with this four-word phrase, often used to summarize the poem's optimistic belief in a harmonious universe.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Mary Wortley Montagu):
    This author argued that, "though [Pope] preaches ne'er so long / That all is right, his head is wrong" in a poem claiming that Jonathan Swift's impotence led him to write "The Lady's Dressing Room." Pope satirized this woman as "Sappho" in his "Epistle to a Lady."

[B4] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the introduction to this poem, "The Design," the poet labels this poem "as a general Map" of the title entity, having considered it first "in the abstract, his nature and his state." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "An Essay on Man"):
    Name this poem whose speaker mocks its title subject with the lines "go, teach Eternal Wisdom how to rule- / Then drop into thyself, and be a fool!"
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    "An Essay on Man" was written by this English poet, who coined the maxim "to err is human, to forgive divine" in his poem "An Essay on Criticism."
  Part 3 (ans: the Pierian Spring [prompt on spring]):
    In "An Essay on Criticism," Pope warns that "a little learning is a dangerous thing," enjoining the reader to "drink deep, or taste not" this mythical source of knowledge.
