=== STOCK CLUES: Alexander Pope ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 37 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 22 found, 66 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Untitled Film Set (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: fly [or houseflies; or The Fly; or Eega; prompt on insects or bugs] (The two works of literature referenced in those lines are Zhuangzi's butterfly dream story and Alexander Pope's "An Essay on Criticism.")
  - In a film titled for this sort of animal, a car crash victim is horrified to see the phrase "I will kill you" on his windshield. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of a film titled for this sort of animal jokes that his medicine cabinet is a "museum of natural history." Nani exacts revenge on a tycoon after his rebirth as this sort of animal in a film by S. [PWR]
  - S. [PWR]
  - Rajamouli .
  - The protagonist of a film titled for this sort of animal alludes to literature in both a line likening himself to one of these animals who "dreamt he was a man, but now the dream is over," and the line, (*) "drink deep, or taste not the plasma spring." Chris Walas won an Oscar for creating seven "stages" of makeup for a film titled for this animal. [PWR]
  - As producer, Mel Brooks coined the tagline "be afraid; be very afraid" for a film titled for this sort of animal, whose protagonist apologizes to a baboon for killing its brother while experimenting with "telepods." For 10 points, a 1986 David Cronenberg film depicts a scientist's fusion with what sort of insect? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope (The second line refers to "An Essay on Man.")
  - This author wrote a poem for the birthday of his friend and possible lover Martha Blount. [PWR]
  - The first section of a poem by this author, which Voltaire called "the most sublime didactic poem ever," asks if "the great chain" is "upheld by God, or thee?" The pamphlet Shakespeare Restored attacked the "many errors" in this author's revision of Shakespeare. [PWR]
  - It's not by Jonathan Swift, but a poem by this author addressed "To a Lady" uses Sappho as a stand-in to attack (*) Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.
  - This author wrote a fourth book for a mock-epic that replaced its target of Lewis Theobald with Colley Cibber and follows the goddess Dulness.
  - The phrases "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" and "damn with faint praise" are from a poem by this author written as a letter addressed to Dr.
  - Arbuthnot.
  - For 10 points, name this English author of The Dunciad. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope
  - At the end of a poem, this author traces a weapon's history of being melted down into seal rings, a belt buckle, and a baby's whistle.
  - In that poem, this author describes a vial full of "soft sorrows, melting griefs, and flowing tears." Another poem by this author originally satirized his rival Lewis Theobald and was later revised to be about Colley Cibber, a hero who is crowned by the goddess Dulness.
  - This author wrote a poem that states, "What mighty contests rise from trivial things," which was inspired by a real event between Arabella Fermor and Lord Petre.
  - In that poem by this author, Clarissa's "two-edged weapon" is used by a Baron to remove the title object from Belinda.
  - For 10 points, name this English author of the mock-epic poems The Dunciad and The Rape of the Lock. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope
  - As a practical joke, Thomas Parnell translated parts of an unpublished poem by this author into Latin and used the translation to accuse this author of plagiarism.
  - Nicholson Baker proposes this man may have contributed to or copied from Samuel Garth's The Dispensary in an essay titled for the phrase "learned lumber." In an incident meant to "save a fellow a beating by giving him a vomit," this man poisoned a bookseller who later published an unauthorized "key" to one of this author's works.
  - He produced an edition of Shakespeare's plays in which he corrected "anachronisms" like references to philosophers he felt Shakespeare couldn't possibly have heard of.
  - This writer was attacked by the author of Shakespeare Restored, prompting him to retaliate by writing a poem in which that critic, Lewis Theobald, is crowned as a replacement to Elkanah Settle by the goddess Dulness.
  - For 10 points, name this 18th century poet of mock-heroic epics such as The Dunciad. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope
  - This author wrote a letter highlighting a stanza from one of his poems that imagines "some future bard" with "similitude griefs to mine" learning of the speaker's tragic love story, though he later denounced the addressee as "Sappho" in some satires after she laughed at his love confession. [PWR]
  - That poem by this author yearns for "The world forgetting by the world forgot." This author drew inspiration from his heartbreak over Lady (*) Wortley Montagu to write a poem that coined the phrase "Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind." A long, Horace-inspired poem by this author contains many heroic couplets that are the origin of phrases like "Fools rush in where angels fear to tread" and "To err is human; to forgive, divine." For 10 points, name this author of "Eloisa to Abelard" and "Essay on Criticism." [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope
  - A poem by this author requests of a friend "when I die, let me know / Great Homer died three thousand years ago." This author mimicked Horace in such poems as one imaging a "young Maro" who notes "Nature and Homer were, he found, the same" and suggesting "First follow NATURE, and your judgment frame." This author was targeted in the Verses Addressed to the Imitator of Horace co-written by John Hervey, whom this author rebuffed in a poem that coined the phrase (*) "damn with faint praise." This author wrote "'Tis hard to say, if greater want of skill / Appear in writing or in judging ill" in a poem in couplets coining such phrases as "For fools rush in where angels fear to tread" and "A little learning is a dang'rous thing." For 10 points, name this author of "Epistle to Dr. [PWR,GIVE]
  - Arbuthnot," "Essay on Criticism," and "The Rape of the Lock."

[T7] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope's translation of Homer's Iliad [prompt on "Iliad"; if they buzz on the first clue, you may specifically ask: "which version?"]
  - This work declares: "Like leaves on trees the race of man is found-- / Now green in youth, now withering on the ground".
  - Matthew Arnold criticized lines in this work, such as: "The life which others pay, let us bestow, / And give to fame what to nature we owe" for using an antithesis unsuited to the feeling of the poem. [PWR]
  - Samuel Johnson called this work "a performance which no age or nation can pretend to equal".
  - Its creator's reputation was tarnished when half of its sequel was ghostwritten by (*) Elijah Fenton and William Broome.
  - This work uses phrases like "wat'ry waste" for an epithet now more commonly rendered as "wine-dark sea".
  - This work, which was completed in 1720, begins: "Achilles' wrath, to Greece the direful spring / Of woes unnumber'd, heavnly goddess, sing!".
  - For 10 points, name this translation of an Ancient Greek epic by the English poet of The Dunciad. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Alexander Pope
  - This poet wrote of a happy man who is "Content to breathe his native air" in his "Ode on Solitude," and he wrote a poem that says, "share thy pain, allow that sad relief; / Ah, more than share it! give me all thy grief" in order to "speed the soft intercourse from soul to soul" before ending with the line "He best can paint 'em, who shall feel 'em most." The lines "can Sporus feel? / Who breaks a Butterfly upon a Wheel?" were written by this author who began a poem by addressing (*) "Henry St.
  - John, Lord Bolingbroke," and ended one part of that poem by writing "Whatever is, is right." This poet of "Eloisa to Abelard" and "Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot" also wrote a mock-epic about Lord Petre cutting off Arabella Fermor's hair.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "An Essay on Man" and The Rape of the Lock. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This affliction is the subject of a poem by 18th-century one-hit-wonder Matthew Green, who wrote that "Monkeys have been / Extreme good doctors" for it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: spleen [accept "The Spleen: a Pindaric Poem"; accept "The Spleen: An Epistle to Mr. Cuthbert Jackson"; accept Matthew Green's nickname "Spleen Green"]):
    What title affliction is addressed in a Pindaric ode by Anne Finch that contrasts real sufferers with the fool who "to imitate the wits / Complains of thy pretended fits?"
  Part 2 (ans: "A Room of One's Own"):
    This essay laments that the male world of Augustan poetry forced Finch, "whose mind was tuned to nature and reflection... to anger and bitterness." This Virginia Woolf essay imagines Shakespeare's fictional sister, Judith.
  Part 3 (ans: the lock of hair [or Belinda's hair] (from Alexander Pope's "The Rape of the Lock")):
    In a scene that seems to reference Finch's poem, a bag of "sighs, sobs and passions" from the Cave of Spleen triggers a character's fury over this object. This object is set in the stars to add "new glory to the shining sphere."

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, the Roman sewer goddess Cloacina ("cloh-ah-KEEN-ah") helps Edmund Curll win a race after he slips in a pile of excrement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dunciad):
    Name this satirical poem whose character of Bays represents the author's critic Colley Cibber. The winner of a urination contest in this poem receives a copy of the works of "Eliza Heywood."
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author decried the agents of the goddess Dulness in his mock-epic The Dunciad. He also wrote "The Rape of the Lock."
  Part 3 (ans: John Gay):
    This other author described a child of Cloacina who becomes a shoe-shiner in his satirical poem Trivia, or The Art of Walking the Streets of London. This author befriended Pope as a fellow member of the Scriblerus Club.

[B3] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A close female friend of this author tasked him with writing a poem in blank verse about a sofa, leading him to write the poem The Task. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Cowper):
    Name this 18th-century abolitionist poet who included "God Moves in a Mysterious Way" in the Olney Hymns, a collaboration with John Newton.
  Part 2 (ans: Austen [accept Lady Anna Austen; accept Jane Austen]):
    The friend who told Cowper to write The Task was a lady with this surname. Marianne Dashwood bemoans Edward Ferrars's dry recitation of Cowper's poetry in Sense and Sensibility, a novel by an author with this surname.
  Part 3 (ans: a lock of hair [prompt on lock by asking "a lock of what?"; accept "To a Lady Who Wore a Lock of his Hair Set with Diamonds"] (The poem is Alexander Pope's The Rape of the Lock.)):
    Cowper wrote a poem about giving one of these objects to Lady Austen, one of which Willoughby returns to Marianne in Sense and Sensibility. In one poem, a guardian sylph is sliced in half while trying to protect one of these objects.

[B4] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of an essay on this activity claims he is afraid to read Tom Jones in case it doesn't live up to his expectations, which would cause him to never read another novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hating [accept word forms like hatred; accept "On the Pleasure of Hating"; reject synonyms]):
    Name this title activity of an essay which opens with the speaker watching an unwelcome spider crawl along his floor. The "Pleasure of" this activity titles an oft-anthologized essay by William Hazlitt.
  Part 2 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" (by Alexander Pope)):
    This poem compares a bad writer to a spider who "spins the slight, self-pleasing thread." G. K. Chesterton noted the "illuminating" hatred of this poem's author, which attacks "Atticus" and "Sporus."
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Johnson):
    This writer coined the term "good hater" to describe his friend Richard Bathurst. This author defined hatred as "the passion contrary to love" in his Dictionary of the English Language.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A prominent businessman in this place turned to publishing erotic fiction later in life, such as his series Merryland, which analogized women's bodies to especially curvy topography. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Grub Street):
    Name this erstwhile street in London, a hub for hack publishers like Edmund Curll who peddled fabricated news, plagiarized novels, and other bad writing in the 17th and 18th centuries.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad (by Alexander Pope)):
    Curll was depicted as a key contestant in a literal pissing contest and other "heroic games" overseen by the goddess Dulness in this mock epic, which also mocks Lewis Theobald and other denizens of Grub Street.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    Curll also had a habit of producing unauthorized companion pieces to popular novels, such as his incredibly inaccurate and advertisement-filled "key" to this author's novel Gulliver's Travels.

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about references to British poetry made in Vladimir Nabokov's Pale Fire, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "An Essay on Man" (by Alexander Pope)):
    King Charles' homeland of Zembla is a reference to this poem, which expounds an optimistic philosophy based on the Great Chain of Being. This poem notes that "whatever is, is right."
  Part 2 (ans: John Keats):
    The poem "Pale Fire" refers to the Red Sox beating the Yankees 5-4 "On Chapman's Homer," a reference to this author. This author also wrote "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Browning [prompt on Browning]):
    In Kinbote's notes, a boy points to a spot in Dulwich Forest where his "papa pisses," a reference to this author's "Pippa Passes." The speaker of one of this author's poems looks at a painting made by Fra Pandolf.

[B7] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about humor derived from male impotence in Restoration writings, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author mocked bad writers as those who "Rhyme with all the Rage of Impotence" in his Essay on Criticism. This British satirist also wrote The Dunciad.
  Part 2 (ans: The Country Wife):
    Lady Fidget's husband and Mrs. Squeamish's grandmother listen to Horner deliver double entendres about his "china collection" while pretending to be impotent in this Restoration comedy by William Wycherley.
  Part 3 (ans: Aphra Behn):
    The shepherd Lysander falls "weeping in his Hands" due to impotence in this poet's "The Disappointment." Though first credited to the Earl of Rochester, this poet republished it alongside homoerotic poems about Amintas in "Poems upon Several Occasions."

[B8] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author feuded with his colleague John Ozell for publishing a translation of the Italian mock epic La secchia rapita ("SECK-yah rah-PEE-tah") at the same time as a poem by this author. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    Name this English poet. The hack bookseller Edmund Curll titled Ozell's translation The Rape of The Bucket in an attempt to capitalize off the success of this author's poem "The Rape of the Lock."
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad):
    In retaliation, Pope inserted Curll as a prominent character in this mock-epic poem, in which Curll competes in a series of humiliating games overseen by Dulness, the goddess of stupidity.
  Part 3 (ans: John Arbuthnot [accept "Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot"]):
    This friend of Pope's quipped that Curll's biographies of deceased literati were "one of the new terrors of death." Pope coined the phrase "who breaks the butterfly upon the wheel?" in a poem addressed to this man.

[B9] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Richard Steele complained about Will's Coffee House being "much altered since [this person] frequented it...where you used to see songs, epigrams, and satires...you have now only a pack of cards." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden (The work is Mac Flecknoe.)):
    Name this poet, a leader of the "Wits," who distributed Mary Chudleigh's poetry at Will's. While at Will's, Dean Lockier argued with this poet about a work in which Bruce and Longvil drop the title man down a trapdoor.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author went to Will's just to secure an introduction to Dryden. This author describes "coffee, which makes the politician wise" in his poem The Rape of the Lock.
  Part 3 (ans: William Wycherley):
    This Restoration dramatist lamented that "nor is Wills the Wits Coffee-House any more" after John Dennis left. Horner and Lady Fidget exchange double entendres off-stage in the "china scene" of this author's play The Country Wife.

[B10] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A writer and botanist with this surname was the original target of the article in The Covent-Garden Journal that launched the "paper war." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hill [accept John Hill; accept Fanny Hill]):
    Give this surname shared by a main character who, among other misadventures, gets revenge on her lover Mr. H- by seducing his footman Will in the 18th century erotic novel Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fielding):
    The "paper war" was launched by this writer, whose novel Amelia was subsequently attacked by John Hill. This author satirized Samuel Richardson's Pamela in the novel Shamela.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    During the "paper war," Christopher Smart wrote The Hilliad, whose title and mock epic form were inspired in large part by this earlier writer's poem The Dunciad. This writer also wrote The Rape of the Lock.

[B11] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem sums up its author's Tory views on politics as "For forms of government let fools contest / Whate'er is best administered is best". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: An Essay on Man):
    Name this didactic poem which describes its central subject as "Plac'd on this isthmus of a middle state / A being darkly wise, and rudely great". It states that pride is found "in erring reason's spite".
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    An Essay on Man is by this British poet of the satirical epics The Rape of the Lock and The Dunciad.
  Part 3 (ans: the great chain of being [prompt on chain]):
    An Essay on Man states that this concept "draws all to agree" and asks the reader whether it is "upheld by God, or Thee?" A book by Arthur Lovejoy examines the history of this medieval idea of a hierarchy of creation.

[B12] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the literary career of Joseph Addison for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Richard Steele):
    He co-founded The Spectator publication with this contemporary author, with whom he had earlier founded The Tatler, as well assisted him in writing the play The Tender Husband.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcus Porcius Cato Uticensis [or Cato the Younger; prompt on Cato]):
    Addison wrote a play about this historical figure subtitled "A tragedy." In Shakespeare's Julius Caesar, his death is compared to that of Titinius following the Battle of Philippi, and his daughter Portia expresses her trepidation about Caesar going to the Senate at the conclusion of Act II.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    After supporting Thomas Tickell's translation of The Iliad, Joseph Addison was criticized in "An Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot", a poem by this English author of the mock epic The Rape of the Lock.

[B13] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This goddess presided over a pissing contest between the booksellers Curll and Chetham, which Chetham won by streaming a burning arc over his own head while his opponent splashed his own face. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dulness):
    Name this goddess who crowns either Lewis Theobald or Colley Cibber, respectively, as her new king in the three- or four-book edition of a mock-heroic poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    As repayment for being saved by Cibber from being crushed by an overweight prostitute at a brothel, this poet of "The Rape of the Lock" cast him as the "King of Dulness" in The Dunciad.
  Part 3 (ans: "MacFlecknoe"):
    Because he is found to be "mature in dullness from his tender years," Thomas Shadwell is appointed successor to a mediocre English poet in this mock-heroic poem by John Dryden.

[B14] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote that "here she concludes Lamira thinks it just / such pious tears shou'd wait such Royal Dust" in her poem about the death of Mary of Modena, to whom she had served as a maid of honor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anne Finch, Countess of Winchilsea [accept either underlined portion; accept Anne Kingsmill]):
    Name this poet whose work was influenced by her deep loyalty to James II and the Stuarts. She wrote "this to the crown and blessing of my life, / the much loved husband of a happy wife" in her poem "A Letter to Daphnis."
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This poet tried to flatter Finch with his poem "Impromptu," which states that "ev'ry Female Wit" was doomed "when first Ardelia writ." He wrote "Impromptu" in response to Finch's criticism of his poem The Rape of the Lock.
  Part 3 (ans: Adam [accept "Adam Posed" or "Adam lay ybounden"]):
    Finch's poem about this man "posed" wonders at his ability to guess "from what new element she came" upon seeing "a vain fantastic nymph." A medieval poem says that this man "lay ybounden, / bounden in a bond."

[B15] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about vegetarianism in literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Jonathan Safran Foer):
    This Jewish-American author wrote a book called Eating Animals about his own decision to become a vegetarian. He fictionalized his vegetarianism in his novel Everything Is Illuminated.
  Part 2 (ans: Isaac Bashevis Singer):
    This Yiddish writer and avowed vegetarian wrote about the guilt of killing animals in "The Slaughterer." This author of The Magician of Lublin also wrote stories about Gimpel the Fool.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    In 1713, this author wrote an essay in the Guardian titled "Against Barbarity to Animals," which lamented the treatment of animals in slaughterhouses. At the beginning of his collected works, he wrote that poetry and criticism are "by no means the universal concern of the world, but only the affair of idle men."

[B16] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man is credited with creating the national image of England, "John Bull", a jovial fat man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Arbuthnot [or Dr. Arbuthnot]):
    Name this physician, the subject of a poetic letter that introduced the phrase "damn with faint praise" to the English language. At one point in the poem addressed to this man, the speaker rhetorically asks "who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?".
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" is a poem by this author, who also introduced such phrases as "fools rush in where angels fear to read" in a poem written in his signature heroic couplets.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    Dr. Arbuthnot was a good friend of this author, who gently parodied him in the novel Gulliver's Travels.

[B17] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the introduction to this poem, "The Design," the poet labels this poem "as a general Map" of the title entity, having considered it first "in the abstract, his nature and his state." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "An Essay on Man"):
    Name this poem whose speaker mocks its title subject with the lines "go, teach Eternal Wisdom how to rule- / Then drop into thyself, and be a fool!"
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    "An Essay on Man" was written by this English poet, who coined the maxim "to err is human, to forgive divine" in his poem "An Essay on Criticism."
  Part 3 (ans: the Pierian Spring [prompt on spring]):
    In "An Essay on Criticism," Pope warns that "a little learning is a dangerous thing," enjoining the reader to "drink deep, or taste not" this mythical source of knowledge.

[B18] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: James Thomson, the author of "Rule, Britannia," wrote a poem "sacred to the memory" of this man upon his death in 1727. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Isaac Newton):
    "Name this Englishman whose epigraph claims God said this thinker's name when "Nature and Nature's laws lay hid in night."
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    The aforementioned epitaph was penned by this translator of Homer who wrote of the "dire offence" of the theft of Belinda's hair in The Rape of the Lock.
  Part 3 (ans: Longinus [or Pseudo-Longinus]):
    Pope's essay "Peri Bathous," which describes a number of ways to "sink," or write poor poetry, was a parody of this Greek author's Peri Hypsous, or On the Sublime.

[B19] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author created Mr. James Formal, who is so obsessed with copying Spanish customs that he imprisons his daughter in his house, and Lady Flippant, who succeeds in her scheme to marry Simon Addlepot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Wycherley):
    Name this playwright of The Gentleman Dancing-Master and Love in a Wood.
  Part 2 (ans: The Country Wife):
    This Wycherly play features a parade of dummies such as Fidget and Sparkish, who are taken in by Mr. Horner's plan to spread rumors of his own impotence so that men will let him spend time with their spouses.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    Wycherly's unfinished works were revised for publication by this man, whose own comedies include a mock epic on Lord Petre's clipping hair from Bedelia.

[B20] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One portion of this long poem compares a bad writer to a spider, suggesting that if you "break one cobweb through," then "he spins the slight, self-pleasing thread anew." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"):
    Name this poem that opens with the command, "Shut, shut the door, good John!" It asks the poet's physician friend to hide him from all of his admiring fans.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" was written by this English satirist who wrote The Rape of the Lock and An Essay on Criticism.
  Part 3 (ans: The Dunciad):
    Pope's plea to Dr. Arbuthnot had some basis in reality-he walked around London with a Great Dane and two loaded pistols after the publication of this satire honoring the goddess Dulness and her hack writer lackeys, like Colley Cibber.

[B21] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Allen Tate called this figure, not Aristotle, the first literary critic, citing his focus on the relation of language to subject matter. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Longinus):
    Name this classical author whose Peri Hypsous decried the "decay of oratory" since Demosthenes, and refuted Caecilius's claim that writers are born, not made?
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author wrote a comic essay version of Peri Hypsous called "Peri Bathous, or the Art of Sinking in Poetry." He also wrote an "elegy to the memory of an unfortunate lady."
  Part 3 (ans: Anactoria ("Ode to Anactoria")):
    Chapter 10 of Longinus' "On the Sublime" presents an extended analysis of Sappho's 31st fragment, which is usually titled as an ode to this woman. She's also the "army wife in Sardis" in Sappho's 16th fragment, and Algernon Swinburne wrote a poem about her.

[B22] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The question "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" appears in a section of this poem satirizing John Hervey as Sporus, a "painted child of Dirt that stinks and stings." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"):
    Name this poem that lays out many of its author's satirical principles in the form of a letter to his friend, whom he thanks for his efforts "to help me through this long disease, my life."
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad):
    The speaker of the "Epistle" asks, "And has not Colly still his Lord, and Whore," referring to Colley Cibber, who is crowned king of the title people in this mock-heroic satire by the same author as the "Epistle."
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    The "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" and The Dunciad were both written by this satirist who also wrote "An Essay on Man" and The Rape of the Lock.
