=== STOCK CLUES: Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"
  - This poem quotes John Denham's "Of Prudence" in saying "To live and die is all I have to do".
  - The speaker of this poem describes how people flatter him by saying he "cough[s] like Horace" or has "Ovid's nose", and jokes that when he dies, he'll be compared to Homer because he "died three thousand years ago".
  - One stanza in this poem describes a figure "blessed with each talent and each art to please" but being "too fond to rule alone, / Bear, like the Turk, no brother near the throne".
  - Another figure in this poem is called a "mere white curd of ass's milk".
  - Joseph Addison and Lord Hervey are satirized in this poem as the characters Atticus and Sporus.
  - Because "All Bedlam, or Parnassus, is let out", the speaker of this poem commands "Shut, shut the door, good John!" This poem is the source of the phrases "damn with faint praise" and "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" For 10 points, name this Alexander Pope poem addressed to his physician. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of an essay on this activity claims he is afraid to read Tom Jones in case it doesn't live up to his expectations, which would cause him to never read another novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hating [accept word forms like hatred; accept "On the Pleasure of Hating"; reject synonyms]):
    Name this title activity of an essay which opens with the speaker watching an unwelcome spider crawl along his floor. The "Pleasure of" this activity titles an oft-anthologized essay by William Hazlitt.
  Part 2 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" (by Alexander Pope)):
    This poem compares a bad writer to a spider who "spins the slight, self-pleasing thread." G. K. Chesterton noted the "illuminating" hatred of this poem's author, which attacks "Atticus" and "Sporus."
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Johnson):
    This writer coined the term "good hater" to describe his friend Richard Bathurst. This author defined hatred as "the passion contrary to love" in his Dictionary of the English Language.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This member of the Scriblerus ("SCRIB-lur-us") Club wrote the pamphlet Law Is A Bottomless Pit, which created John Bull, a fat man who personified the United Kingdom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Arbuthnot [accept "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"]):
    Name this physician addressed in a poetic "epistle" by Alexander Pope, which coined the phrases "damn with faint praise" and "break a butterfly upon a wheel."
  Part 2 (ans: John Gay (The poem is Trivia.)):
    In "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot," Pope writes that he saw this author's "neglected genius bloom." This member of the Scriblerus Club wrote a long poem about "the Art of Walking the Streets of London."
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift ):
    This other member of the Scriblerus Club showed early drafts of his novel Gulliver's Travels to his friends Pope, Arbuthnot, and Gay.

[B3] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One portion of this long poem compares a bad writer to a spider, suggesting that if you "break one cobweb through," then "he spins the slight, self-pleasing thread anew." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"):
    Name this poem that opens with the command, "Shut, shut the door, good John!" It asks the poet's physician friend to hide him from all of his admiring fans.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" was written by this English satirist who wrote The Rape of the Lock and An Essay on Criticism.
  Part 3 (ans: The Dunciad):
    Pope's plea to Dr. Arbuthnot had some basis in reality-he walked around London with a Great Dane and two loaded pistols after the publication of this satire honoring the goddess Dulness and her hack writer lackeys, like Colley Cibber.

[B4] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The question "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" appears in a section of this poem satirizing John Hervey as Sporus, a "painted child of Dirt that stinks and stings." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"):
    Name this poem that lays out many of its author's satirical principles in the form of a letter to his friend, whom he thanks for his efforts "to help me through this long disease, my life."
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad):
    The speaker of the "Epistle" asks, "And has not Colly still his Lord, and Whore," referring to Colley Cibber, who is crowned king of the title people in this mock-heroic satire by the same author as the "Epistle."
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    The "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" and The Dunciad were both written by this satirist who also wrote "An Essay on Man" and The Rape of the Lock.
