=== STOCK CLUES: The Dunciad ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, the Roman sewer goddess Cloacina ("cloh-ah-KEEN-ah") helps Edmund Curll win a race after he slips in a pile of excrement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dunciad):
    Name this satirical poem whose character of Bays represents the author's critic Colley Cibber. The winner of a urination contest in this poem receives a copy of the works of "Eliza Heywood."
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    This author decried the agents of the goddess Dulness in his mock-epic The Dunciad. He also wrote "The Rape of the Lock."
  Part 3 (ans: John Gay):
    This other author described a child of Cloacina who becomes a shoe-shiner in his satirical poem Trivia, or The Art of Walking the Streets of London. This author befriended Pope as a fellow member of the Scriblerus Club.

[B2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A prominent businessman in this place turned to publishing erotic fiction later in life, such as his series Merryland, which analogized women's bodies to especially curvy topography. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Grub Street):
    Name this erstwhile street in London, a hub for hack publishers like Edmund Curll who peddled fabricated news, plagiarized novels, and other bad writing in the 17th and 18th centuries.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad (by Alexander Pope)):
    Curll was depicted as a key contestant in a literal pissing contest and other "heroic games" overseen by the goddess Dulness in this mock epic, which also mocks Lewis Theobald and other denizens of Grub Street.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    Curll also had a habit of producing unauthorized companion pieces to popular novels, such as his incredibly inaccurate and advertisement-filled "key" to this author's novel Gulliver's Travels.

[B3] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author feuded with his colleague John Ozell for publishing a translation of the Italian mock epic La secchia rapita ("SECK-yah rah-PEE-tah") at the same time as a poem by this author. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    Name this English poet. The hack bookseller Edmund Curll titled Ozell's translation The Rape of The Bucket in an attempt to capitalize off the success of this author's poem "The Rape of the Lock."
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad):
    In retaliation, Pope inserted Curll as a prominent character in this mock-epic poem, in which Curll competes in a series of humiliating games overseen by Dulness, the goddess of stupidity.
  Part 3 (ans: John Arbuthnot [accept "Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot"]):
    This friend of Pope's quipped that Curll's biographies of deceased literati were "one of the new terrors of death." Pope coined the phrase "who breaks the butterfly upon the wheel?" in a poem addressed to this man.

[B4] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Colley Cibber was renowned for his portrayals of this type of character, such as Sir Novelty Fashion in his play Love's Last Shift. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fop):
    Name this type of stock character from Restoration comedies. This term is sometimes embedded in the names of characters who exemplify it, such as the title character of George Etherege's The Man of Mode.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad):
    Colley Cibber's foppish successes came at the cost of a literary feud with Alexander Pope, who lampooned Cibber in this mock-epic about the goddess Dulness.
  Part 3 (ans: John Vanbrugh (VAN-bruh)):
    Cibber won raves for his performance as Lord Foppington in a sequel to Love's Last Shift written by this other playwright. His other successes include The Provoked Wife.

[B5] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, Edmund Curll calls upon assistance from the goddess Cloacina to beat Bernard Lintot in a race to capture the ghost of the poet Moore. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dunciad):
    Name this poem in which Lewis Theobald is crowned by the goddess Dulness as the successor to Elkanah Settle. Theobald was replaced by Colley Cibber in a second version.
  Part 2 (ans: iambic pentameter [prompt on partial answer]):
    Like most of Alexander Pope's poetry, The Dunciad is written in heroic couplets, which are rhymed couplets in this meter, made up of five feet, each foot consisting of one unstressed and one stressed syllable.
  Part 3 (ans: James Thomson):
    Pope was a contemporary of this Scottish poet of The Seasons and the lyrics to "Rule, Britannia". A Victorian poet of the same name wrote under the pseudonym Bysshe Vanolis.

[B6] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One portion of this long poem compares a bad writer to a spider, suggesting that if you "break one cobweb through," then "he spins the slight, self-pleasing thread anew." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"):
    Name this poem that opens with the command, "Shut, shut the door, good John!" It asks the poet's physician friend to hide him from all of his admiring fans.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" was written by this English satirist who wrote The Rape of the Lock and An Essay on Criticism.
  Part 3 (ans: The Dunciad):
    Pope's plea to Dr. Arbuthnot had some basis in reality-he walked around London with a Great Dane and two loaded pistols after the publication of this satire honoring the goddess Dulness and her hack writer lackeys, like Colley Cibber.

[B7] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The question "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" appears in a section of this poem satirizing John Hervey as Sporus, a "painted child of Dirt that stinks and stings." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"):
    Name this poem that lays out many of its author's satirical principles in the form of a letter to his friend, whom he thanks for his efforts "to help me through this long disease, my life."
  Part 2 (ans: The Dunciad):
    The speaker of the "Epistle" asks, "And has not Colly still his Lord, and Whore," referring to Colley Cibber, who is crowned king of the title people in this mock-heroic satire by the same author as the "Epistle."
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Pope):
    The "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" and The Dunciad were both written by this satirist who also wrote "An Essay on Man" and The Rape of the Lock.
