=== STOCK CLUES: The Rape of the Lock ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Rape of the Lock
  - In this poem, a list of "Bodies chang'd to various Forms" includes men who "prove with child," "maids turn'd bottles," "living teapots," and a "pipkin" that walks.
  - This poem's dedication names the occult book Le Comte de Gabalis as a source for the "machinery" within.
  - In this poem, a bag filled with items such as the "Force of Female Lungs" and the "War of Tongues," which is poured on a woman found weeping in Thalestris's arms, is granted by the Queen of the Cave of Spleen to the gnome Umbriel.
  - After a game of ombre at Hampton Court, the Baron uses a "forfex" on the central character of this poem, who is protected by Ariel and an army of sylphs.
  - The line "what mighty quarrels rise from trivial things" completes the first heroic couplet of this poem.
  - For 10 points, name this "mock-epic" about stolen hair, by Alexander Pope. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the lock of hair [accept The Rape of the Lock; accept Belinda's hair]
  - A woman demands this object even louder than Othello "roar'd for the handkerchief that caus'd his pain." This object is thought to be kept with "cages for gnats, and chains to yoke a flea." A character tasked with guarding this object is threatened with the punishment of Ixion on the wheel of a chocolate mill.
  - After acquiring this object, a man praises "the conqu'ring force of unresisted steel." A man builds an altar of billet-doux  before resolving to acquire this object during a card game, based on one of them owned by Arabella Fermor.
  - This object turns into a constellation at the end of a poem that begins "What dire offence from am'rous causes springs" and centers on the Baron using scissors to take this object.
  - For 10 points, name this object that is snipped from the head of Belinda in a mock-epic by Alexander Pope. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Rape of the Lock
  - In this work, a thousand sprites use their wings to "twitch" the diamond in a character's ear to aid Crispissa. [PWR]
  - One man sacrifices in fire "three garters, half a pair of gloves/ and all the trophies of his former loves".
  - The third canto of this poem describes a game of (+) Ombre, after which Clarissa hands the aforementioned man a weapon. [PWR]
  - The central character, based on Arabella Fermor, is guarded by sylphs. [PWR]
  - The victim throws snuff in the (*) Baron's nose and demands the return of a stolen object, which then ascends into the heavens, after Umbriel's intervention to Sir Plume in the Cave of Spleen.
  - This poem opens "What dire offence from am'rous causes springs/ What mighty contests rise from trivial things".
  - For ten points, name this mock epic about Belinda's haircut by Alexander Pope. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: The Rape of the Lock 5
  - This poem describes "lakes of liquid gold," "purple fires," "angels in machines," and "snakes on rolling spires," at a location occupied by living teapots, jars, bottles and a solitary pipkin.
  - That place in this poem is ruled by a monarch served by handmaids called "Ill-Nature" and "Affection." A character in this poem visits that Queen to obtain a vial filled with "fainting fears" and "soft sorrows," as well as a wondrous bag that holds the "force of female lungs" and the "war of tongues." Later, that character finds his master weeping in Thalestris's arms.
  - At the end of this poem, the title object shoots "thro' liquid air" and becomes a star; earlier, it was acquired by a noble during a game of ombre.
  - This poem details a gnome's visit to the Cave of Spleen, and it begins "What dire Offence from am'rous causes Springs, what mighty Contests rise from Trivial things." For 10 points, name this mock heroic poem in which a baron cuts Belinda's hair, by Alexander Pope. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This affliction is the subject of a poem by 18th-century one-hit-wonder Matthew Green, who wrote that "Monkeys have been / Extreme good doctors" for it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: spleen [accept "The Spleen: a Pindaric Poem"; accept "The Spleen: An Epistle to Mr. Cuthbert Jackson"; accept Matthew Green's nickname "Spleen Green"]):
    What title affliction is addressed in a Pindaric ode by Anne Finch that contrasts real sufferers with the fool who "to imitate the wits / Complains of thy pretended fits?"
  Part 2 (ans: "A Room of One's Own"):
    This essay laments that the male world of Augustan poetry forced Finch, "whose mind was tuned to nature and reflection... to anger and bitterness." This Virginia Woolf essay imagines Shakespeare's fictional sister, Judith.
  Part 3 (ans: the lock of hair [or Belinda's hair] (from Alexander Pope's "The Rape of the Lock")):
    In a scene that seems to reference Finch's poem, a bag of "sighs, sobs and passions" from the Cave of Spleen triggers a character's fury over this object. This object is set in the stars to add "new glory to the shining sphere."

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A close female friend of this author tasked him with writing a poem in blank verse about a sofa, leading him to write the poem The Task. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Cowper):
    Name this 18th-century abolitionist poet who included "God Moves in a Mysterious Way" in the Olney Hymns, a collaboration with John Newton.
  Part 2 (ans: Austen [accept Lady Anna Austen; accept Jane Austen]):
    The friend who told Cowper to write The Task was a lady with this surname. Marianne Dashwood bemoans Edward Ferrars's dry recitation of Cowper's poetry in Sense and Sensibility, a novel by an author with this surname.
  Part 3 (ans: a lock of hair [prompt on lock by asking "a lock of what?"; accept "To a Lady Who Wore a Lock of his Hair Set with Diamonds"] (The poem is Alexander Pope's The Rape of the Lock.)):
    Cowper wrote a poem about giving one of these objects to Lady Austen, one of which Willoughby returns to Marianne in Sense and Sensibility. In one poem, a guardian sylph is sliced in half while trying to protect one of these objects.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Though predecessors in other languages included La secchia rapita ("la SECK-yah ra-PEE-ta") by Alessandro Tassoni, the first work of this type in English is usually said to be Samuel Butler's Hudibras. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mock-epic [or mock-heroic; accept heroi-comic]):
    Name this type of long poem that satirizes a trivial subject using elevated diction and epithets. English examples of poems in this two-word style include John Gay's Trivia and The Dunciad.
  Part 2 (ans: The Rape of the Lock):
    This mock-epic opens by describing a "dire offence [which] from am'rous causes springs." Sylphs led by Ariel fail to prevent the removal of Belinda's hair in this poem by Alexander Pope.
  Part 3 (ans: Mac Flecknoe (by John Dryden)):
    This mock-epic by a different author begins with the title character, "pond'ring which of all his sons was fit / To reign, and wage immortal war with wit," soon settling on a man who is "mature in dullness" and "stands confirm'd in full stupidity."

[B4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Karl S. Weimar considers challenges translating this poem, like the failure to maintain the pronoun shift from "sie" to "dich" that creates a "morbid...familiarity" in the Jewish perception of a metaphor for lethal gas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Death Fugue" [or "Fugue of Death" or "Todesfuge"]):
    Name this poem, which describes "a man who lives in the house" who "plays with the snakes and dreams" and imagines Death as a blue-eyed "master from Deutschland."
  Part 2 (ans: German [or Deutsch]):
    While "Todesfuge" was first published in Romanian, it was originally written in this language whose literature was pioneered by authors such as Friedrich Schiller.
  Part 3 (ans: hair [accept ashen hair or golden hair; accept The Rape of the Lock]):
    Translators of "Todesfuge" often forgo meter to keep the parallel between this thing belonging to the Jewish Shulamit and this thing belonging to Margarete. In another poem, this thing becomes a constellation after the Baron steals it from Belinda.

[B5] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem, one of these creatures appears to the protagonist in a dream, warning her not to attend a tea party at Hampton Court. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sylphs [prompt on fairies or sprites]):
    Name these creatures, fifty of whom are instructed to guard the protagonist's petticoat while one named Ariel guards the protagonist's spaniel Shock.
  Part 2 (ans: The Rape of the Lock):
    The sylph Ariel awakens the sleeping Belinda to warn her of the approach of the scissor-wielding Baron in this mock-epic by Alexander Pope.
  Part 3 (ans: Cave of Spleen):
    In Canto IV, the "dusky melancholy" gnome Umbriel sneaks off to this place, whose queen gives him a vial of "fainting fears, soft sorrows, melting griefs, and flowing tears."

[B6] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's epyllion Hecale survives in fragmentary form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Callimachus of Cyrene):
    What teacher and later rival of Apollonius of Rhodes also created a bibliography of works at the Library of Alexandria called the Pinakes?
  Part 2 (ans: Aetia):
    Callimachus is best known for this collection which begins with the "Reply to the Telchines" and includes the love story of Acontius and Cydippe.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rape of the Lock):
    Most classics scholars believe that Catullus added the lines about the "ritus nutpialis" in his famous translation of a Callimachus poem from the Aetia that was taken as inspiration by Alexander Pope in writing this poem about the "violation" of Arabella Fermor.

[B7] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem took its subject matter from an incident involving Arabella Fermor and Lord Petre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Rape of the Lock"):
    Name this Alexander Pope poem in which the Baron cuts a lock of Belinda's hair.
  Part 2 (ans: sylphs):
    In "The Rape of the Lock," Belinda is guarded by these ineffectual spirits, who fail to prevent the Baron from accomplishing his ends.
  Part 3 (ans: Clarissa):
    This character gives the Baron the scissors he uses to cut Belinda's hair. In later editions, she explains that "charms strike the sight, but merit wins the soul" in a parody of Sarpedon's speech to Glaucus.
