=== STOCK CLUES: Scorsese ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 47 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: New York City [or NYC; or New York Review of Books; or NYRB] (The first sentence is from Teju Cole's Open City; The 50 Year Argument was directed by Martin Scorsese.)
  - In a novel primarily set in this city, a doctor reflects on how Nietzsche imitated Mucius Scaevola after Moji reminds him of how he sexually assaulted her at a party 20 years prior. [PWR]
  - The documentary The 50 Year Argument narrates the history of a magazine based in this city. [PWR]
  - The only surviving shop from this city's old "Book Row" is the massive Strand Bookstore.
  - This city names a company that often publishes previously untranslated and out-of-print novels under its "Classics" imprint, as well as an (*) oft-abbreviated literary magazine. [PWR]
  - During "the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs," Esther Greenwood interns at a magazine in this city in Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar.
  - For 10 points, name this city whose publishers include Columbia University Press. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Scorsese [or Martin "Marty" Charles Scorsese]
  - At the end of this director's breakthrough film, Cream's "Steppin' Out" plays on the radio before a car containing Amy Robinson's Teresa crashes into a fire hydrant.
  - Films such as Ousmane Sembene's  Black Girl have been restored by this director's World Cinema Project.
  - One of several of this director's films edited by Thelma Schoonmaker has opening credits that are accompanied by (*) Mascagni's "Cavalleria Rusticana: Intermezzo." The protagonist of that 1980 film looks into a mirror as he quotes Brando's "I coulda been a contender" monologue from Elia Kazan's On the Waterfront.
  - This man directed Robert De Niro playing the boxer Jake LaMotta.
  - For 10 points, name this American director of Mean Streets and Raging Bull. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Reel Knowledge (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Roberto Rosselini [The clues in power are from Martin Scorsese's My Voyage in Italy]
  - Over footage of a film by this director, the narrator of a documentary describes how the world that centered on his school and his home on Elizabeth Street "got much bigger" watching films on TV. [PWR]
  - That narrator, an American director who briefly was part of this director's family, added the word "my" to the title of one of their films for a four-hour documentary about the cinema of his country. [PWR]
  - That documentary also opens with one of this director's scenes of an unconscious man floating down a (*) river on a small raft, with a sign labelling him a partisan. [PWR]
  - After some fascist-era films, Fellini's first critically serious film credits are screenplays for this director's "post-war trilogy", though he would dramatically depart from this director' style later.
  - This director's daughter, who starred in Death Becomes Her and Blue Velvet, was born to the Swedish star of several of his films, like Stromboli.
  - For 10 points, identify this director of Germany, Year Zero and the father of Isabella, whose marriage to Ingrid Bergman coincided with the release of Voyage to Italy. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Scorsese (scor-SAY-zee) [Martin Charles Scorsese]
  - In Akira Kurosawa's 1990 film Dreams, this man has a brief cameo as Vincent van Gogh.
  - In a three-part 1995 BBC documentary, this man broke down a director's role into four categories: storyteller, illusionist, smuggler, and iconoclast; that documentary is titled A Personal Journey with this man through American Movies.
  - Among this rock-and-roll-loving filmmaker's documentaries are The Last Waltz and Shine a Light.
  - A 2011 film directed by this man stars Asa Butterfield as a young French boy whose dead father tried to repair an automaton.
  - Hugo was directed by, for 10 points, what American filmmaker whose collaborations with Leonardo DiCaprio include Gangs of New York and The Wolf of Wall Street? [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 Delta Burke (2018) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Martin Scorsese
  - In 2011, this director made the 3.5-hour documentary George Harrison: Living in the Material World; previously he made No Direction Home, a documentary on Bob Dylan, and the concert documentary about the last show of The Band, The Last Waltz.
  - Low-level New York mobsters populate his first two films, Who's That Knocking at My Door? and Mean Streets, both of which feature frequent collaborator Harvey Keitel.
  - The latter of those films was this director's first with Robert De Niro, who played Travis Bickle and Jake LaMotta for this director.
  - For 10 points, what American directed movies like Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, and Goodfellas? [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin (Charles) Scorsese
  - The subject of a documentary by this director defends her smoking habit by saying "Everything they say about smoking they said about homosexuality in the 70s" during an interview which takes place at a booth in the Waverly Inn. [PWR]
  - In a documentary by this director, a married couple jokingly argues over the fact that the husband insists on sitting at the opposite end of the couch from his wife. [PWR]
  - One of this man's documentaries classifies directors as storytellers, illusionists, smugglers or iconoclasts.
  - A recipe for (*) meatballs appears in the credits of the documentary this man made about his parents Catherine and Charles.
  - This director of Public Speaking made a concert film for The Band which is sometimes considered the greatest concert film ever made.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Italianamerican and The Last Waltz, whose fiction films include Goodfellas. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Martin Scorsese
  - In one of this director's films, the opening credits are preceded by a triple axial cut towards the protagonist's face as his head hits his pillow.
  - This director's self-identified "best film" is a documentary set at an Elizabeth Street apartment featuring conversations with his parents Charles and Catherine.
  - The protagonist of one of his films has a secret affair with his epileptic cousin and holds his hand over open flames in a restaurant kitchen and in church.
  - This director used what he calls a "priest's-eye view" shot to show the aftermath of a massacre in a brothel run by the pimp Sport.
  - In that film of his, the child prostitute Iris fascinates the disturbed title character, Travis Bickle.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian-American director of Mean Streets and Taxi Driver. [GIVE]

[T8] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Martin Scorsese
  - This director made a film which begins with the protagonist saying the lines "And though I can fight, I'd much rather recite-that's entertainment." That movie by this man has opening credits featuring the title character jumping in slow motion as the Intermezzo from Cavalleria rusticana plays. [PWR]
  - In another of this director's films, the protagonist takes Betsy to see a Swedish sex education film.
  - That character cuts his hair into a Mohawk while planning to kill a senator, a scene which John (*) Hinckley tried to emulate by shooting Ronald Reagan. [PWR]
  - This director made a film about the disturbed loner Travis Bickle, who at one point says "You talkin' to me?" when looking in a mirror.
  - He also filmed the life story of boxer Jake La Motta, who was played by his frequent star, Robert De Niro.
  - For 10 points, name this director of such films as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull. [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 ACF Fall (2012) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Martin Charles Scorsese
  - In one of this director's films, the protagonist loves the epileptic Teresa and is injured looking out for her cousin, the self-destructive Johnny-boy.
  - In another of this director's movies, the main character rescues Betsy from a life of prostitution, fantasizes about assassinating the Senator Charles Palatine, and draws a gun before a mirror, asking his reflection "you talkin' to me?" This director cast Ray Liotta as Henry Hill, who admits that "As far back as I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster" in another film.
  - For 10 points, name this director who collaborated with Robert DeNiro in Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, and Goodfellas. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a film set in a suburb of this city, an old man interrupts an argument in a public bathroom to recount how his friend Grunwalski froze to death in Siberia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paris [accept Chateloup-les-Vignes]):
    Name this city, where three young men, including Vinz ("vance") and Said ("sah-EED"), find a gun left behind in the aftermath of anti-police brutality protests in a film released in the US with the title Hate.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese):
    In Mathieu Kassovitz's film La Haine ("lah en"), Vinz recites the "you talkin' to me" monologue from this director's film Taxi Driver. Other films by this American director include Goodfellas and The Wolf of Wall Street.
  Part 3 (ans: photographs [or photos; accept passport photographs]):
    Kassovitz acted in Amelie ("ah-may-LEE") as Nino, a man who collects these objects that Amelie returns to him. In Rear Window, Jimmy Stewart's character uses equipment for making these objects to temporarily blind his assailant.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the climax of a film-within-a-film in this genre, a character played by Danny Glover shoots the friend of another character played by the Palestinian director Elia Suleiman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Western [accept spaghetti Western] (Morricone scored The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.)):
    Name this genre of Death in Timbuktu, which children gather around to watch in Abderrahmane Sissako's film Bamako. The soundtrack of a 1966 film in this genre features "The Ecstasy of Gold" and "The Trio."
  Part 2 (ans: Ousmane Sembene):
    The replacement of the impotent El-Hadji symbolically sports a cowboy hat in Xala ("HALL-ah"), a film by this director. A young woman is hired by Madame to work as a domestic servant in this director's film Black Girl.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Scorsese):
    Xala, Black Girl, and many other works of African cinema are preserved by the World Cinema Project, which was founded by this director of Killers of the Flower Moon and Taxi Driver.

[B3] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the acting career of Daniel Day-Lewis, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Scorsese [or Martin Charles Scorsese; accept Marty in place of Martin]):
    Day-Lewis received an Oscar nomination for Best Actor for his role in this director's Gangs of New York. This man also directed Goodfellas and Raging Bull.
  Part 2 (ans: There Will Be Blood):
    Day-Lewis won his second Academy Award for his performance as Daniel Plainview in this 2007 Paul Thomas Anderson film loosely based on Upton Sinclair's novel Oil!
  Part 3 (ans: "I drink your milkshake!"):
    In the final scene of There Will Be Blood, Day-Lewis's character delivers this four-word phrase to taunt the preacher Eli Sunday. Anderson claimed to have taken this four-word phrase from Albert Fall's Congressional testimony during the Teapot Dome scandal.

[B4] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: Description acceptable. A 2021 film with this cinematic attribute follows a stressed chef dealing with increasingly more urgent crises at the restaurant Jones & Sons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: filmed in one shot [or filmed in one take; or descriptive answers]):
    Name this attribute of films like Boiling Point. Birdman was one of the first theatrical films to be presented as if it had this attribute.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese [Martin Charles Scorsese]):
    This director's "Copacabana shot" is a famous long take that follows Henry Hill and his girlfriend walking through a nightclub in Goodfellas. He also directed Killers of the Flower Moon.
  Part 3 (ans: There Will Be Blood):
    This film by Paul Thomas Anderson, which follows a ruthless oil tycoon, is renowned for its long average shot length, which is 13.3 seconds.

[B5] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 1976, the Emmys introduced a special award for the design of these sequences. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: title sequence [or opening credits sequence; or main titles; prompt on credits or opening sequence]):
    Name these sequences, the specialty of Saul Bass, who created one featuring close-ups of Kim Novak's eyes and animations created from spirographs for Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo.
  Part 2 (ans: Star Wars [or Star Wars: Episode IV: A New Hope or Star Wars: Episode IV: A New Hope]):
    This film's iconic, credits-free opening is largely credited with the decline of the opening credits sequence. This film was influenced by Kurosawa's Hidden Fortress, according to a 2001 Criterion interview with its director.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Scorsese [or Martin Charles Scorsese]):
    Elaine and Saul Bass used timelapse photography for the title sequence of this director's 1993 version of The Age of Innocence. This director also made Taxi Driver and Goodfellas.

[B6] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This word appears in the English title of an Edward Yang movie set in Taipei, in which a former baseball player reconnects with an old teammate who drives a taxi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: story [or Tokyo Story; or Taipei Story]):
    Name this word, which also appears in an adaptation of Make Way for Tomorrow in which an elderly couple travels to Tokyo to visit their largely uninterested children.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese [or Martin Charles Scorsese]):
    A restored version of Taipei Story was created by this director's World Cinema Project. This director adapted a Hong Kong movie with The Departed and made Taxi Driver.
  Part 3 (ans: Yi Yi):
    This last Yang film before his death is about three generations of a family in Taipei and Tokyo. Many character's names imitate this film's repetitive title.

[B7] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sergio Leone's Once Upon a Time in the West has inspired many spiritual successors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Scorsese [or Martin Charles "Marty" Scorsese] (The historical drama was The Irishman.)):
    Leone's later film Once Upon a Time in America was restored by this director, whose World Cinema Project has distributed films like A Brighter Summer Day and Mysterious Object at Noon. A historical drama by this director adapted the unverified book I Heard You Paint Houses.
  Part 2 (ans: Quentin Tarantino [or Quentin Jerome Tarantino]):
    This director restored period details of 1969 LA but altered Sharon Tate's fate in his 2019 film about the Manson family murders, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood.
  Part 3 (ans: Nuri Bilge Ceylan ("jay-LAHN")):
    This Turkish director of the Chekhov-inspired film Winter Sleep used a group's murder investigation to frame humorous observations of quotidian rural life in Once Upon a Time in Anatolia.

[B8] 2021 Spring Novice (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An often-quoted line from this movie was improvised by Robert De Niro from a line instructing him to "speak to himself in the mirror." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taxi Driver):
    Name this film that features the famous "You talkin' to me?" scene, in which a Vietnam War vet named Travis Bickle plots to kill the pimp of the underage prostitute Iris, played by a 12-year-old Jodie Foster.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese):
    Taxi Driver was directed by this man, who frequently collaborated with Robert De Niro in other films like Raging Bull and Goodfellas.
  Part 3 (ans: Hong Kong):
    In 2006, Scorsese directed The Departed, which was an adaptation of Infernal Affairs, a movie from this city's film industry. Other films made in this city include In the Mood for Love and Drunken Master.

[B9] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: This film's star walked out of an interview when asked if it might "perversely end up inspiring exactly the kind of people it's about." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joker):
    Name this Todd Phillips film that won the Golden Lion at the 2019 Venice Film Festival. In this film, Joaquin Phoenix plays a failed stand-up comedian named Arthur Fleck, who then becomes the title DC Comics villain.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucrecia Martel):
    The chair of the 2019 Venice jury was this director of La Cienaga and The Headless Woman. Her most recent film, Zama, was the Argentinian submission for Best Foreign Language Film in 2017.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin (Charles) Scorsese (The second film is The Irishman.)):
    Joker was partially inspired by this director's film The King of Comedy. This man's most recent film eschewed the use of motion tracking markers for its extensive CGI, which was used to "de-age" its main actors.

[B10] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The director of this film used real prostitutes and pimps in a scene in which the main character is convinced by Bobby to try gay sex work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Manila in the Claws of Light [or Maynila, sa mga Kuko ng Liwanag]):
    Name this film directed by Lino Brocka in which Julio comes to the title city in pursuit of his fiancee Ligaya, who was tricked into a prostiution ring. After her muder at the hands of Ah-Tek, Julio kills him with an ice pick.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese ("scor-SAY-zee")):
    Brocka's Manila in the Claws of Light has been restored by this director's non-profit organization, the World Cinema Project. This man directed Mean Streets and Taxi Driver.
  Part 3 (ans: Senegal (The directors are Djibril Diop Mambety and Ousmane Sembene.)):
    The WCP restored a film from this nation that ends with the protagonist wrecking his beloved motorcycle, titled Touki Bouki. Diouana works as a servant for a wealthy French couple in another film from this nation, Black Girl.

[B11] 2020 Spring Undergraduate Novice (2020) | Diff: 6 | Other Academic
     Leadin: One film by this director depicts the interactions between pool hustlers played by Tom Cruise and Paul Newman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Scorsese):
    Name this director of The Color of Money who also created the biographical film based on the early life of the Dalai Lama, Kundun.
  Part 2 (ans: The Irishman):
    This film by Scorsese describes Frank Sheeran's interactions with the Philadelphia mob and the Teamsters. This 2019 movie was based on Charles Brandt's book I Heard You Paint Houses.
  Part 3 (ans: Al Pacino):
    This actor's first collaboration with Scorsese was in The Irishman where he plays a character who refuses to drink and hates when people are late. This actor's other film credits include Serpico and Carlito's Way.

[B12] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first film thought to be directed by a woman, The Cabbage Fairy, was made in this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: France):
    Name this country. A director from here included an iconic shot of the Moon with a rocket in its eye in the early short film A Trip to the Moon.
  Part 2 (ans: Joan of Arc [or Jeanne D'Arc; or The Passion of Joan of Arc; or La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc]):
    The director of A Trip to the Moon, Georges Melies ("male-YES"), made a 1900 film about this historical figure. Closeups on Falconetti's face make up much of a film about this person from a Danish-born director.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Scorsese ("scor-SAY-zee") [or Martin Charles Scorsese]):
    The title boy befriends Melies's daughter Isabelle in this director's 2011 film Hugo. He also directed Taxi Driver, Goodfellas, and The Irishman.

[B13] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: These objects replaced a pair of silver ones from L. Frank Baum's original novel and were used to show off the Technicolor process. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: red shoes [accept slippers in place of "shoes"; accept ruby in place of "red"]):
    Give both the color and type of clothing of these objects. In The Wizard of Oz they are worn by Dorothy, who taps them together to return to Kansas.
  Part 2 (ans: Michael Powell AND Emeric Pressburger [accept Powell & Pressburger; accept The Archers]):
    These two British men directed and produced a 1948 adaptation of a Hans Christian Andersen story titled The Red Shoes. Their other films include Black Narcissus.
  Part 3 (ans: Taxi Driver (by Martin Scorsese.)):
    Jodie Foster wore a pair of red wedges in her portrayal of the teenager Iris in this film. In one of its iconic scenes, Robert de Niro's character looks into a mirror and asks "You talkin' to me?"

[B14] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An iconic shot from this director shows a camera rotating around a girl speaking to her uncle about her mother's afterlife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carl Theodor Dreyer):
    Name this director of Ordet who adapted Le Fanu's stories for the horror film Vampyr. His most acclaimed film was rediscovered in a psychiatric hospital in 1981.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Bresson):
    This French director criticized the "grotesque buffooneries" of Dreyer's The Passion of Joan of Arc in favor of his own version of her trial. His Notes on the Cinematographer explained his preference for amateur actors to use as "models."
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Scorsese ("scor-SEH-see") [or Martin Charles Scorsese]):
    Bresson, Dreyer, and Ozu were analyzed in Paul Schrader's The Transcendental Style in Film. Schrader is better known for his collaborations with this director of Taxi Driver and Raging Bull.

[B15] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these contemporary film directors who have depicted sexual obsession, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Steve McQueen):
    Michael Fassbender played the sex addict Brandon, whose life is thrown out of balance by his sister's return, in this British director's film Shame. This man directed 12 Years a Slave.
  Part 2 (ans: Lars von Trier (The films are Nymphomaniac and The House that Jack Built.)):
    In a lengthy erotic film by this director, Seligman's accounts of fly-fishing parallel the sexual experiences of Joe, who is played by Charlotte Gainsbourg. The 2018 premiere of a film by this director about a serial killer led to several mass walkouts at Cannes ("can").
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Scorsese ("scor-SAY-zee") [or Martin Charles Scorsese]):
    Paul Schrader, who fictionalized the life of sex addict Bob Crane in his 2002 film Auto Focus, is better known for writing screenplays for films by this director, such as Taxi Driver and Raging Bull.

[B16] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This director's film 2046 is the last entry in a loosely connected trilogy of romantic films that began with Days of Being Wild. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wong Kar-Wai [accept names in either order]):
    Name this Fifth Generation director from China who used shots of the ruins of Angkor Wat to end his romantic film In the Mood for Love. The stories of two different police officers are followed in his film Chungking Express.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese):
    Wong's directorial debut, As Tears Go By, is a film about triads that is often compared to this director's film Mean Streets. This Italian-American's other crime films include Goodfellas and Taxi Driver.
  Part 3 (ans: Happy Together [or Chunguang zhaxie or Ceon gwong za sit]):
    This Wong film, considered a landmark gay movie of the 1990s, focuses on a same-sex couple played by Tony Leung and Leslie Cheung who dream of seeing the Iguazu Falls together in Argentina.

[B17] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Other Academic
     Leadin: The first application of this technique was when Max Fleischer filmed his brother Dave dressed as a clown. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rotoscoping [or rotoscope animation]):
    Identify this technique for creating the smooth animation of the early Superman cartoons by tracing over live-action footage.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Scorsese [or Martin Charles Scorsese]):
    This director of The Aviator used rotoscoping for his Neil Young concert film The Last Waltz. A church in Paris was set on fire while it was screening this director's controversial 1988 film The Last Temptation of Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: Gulliver's Travels [or Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World. In Four Parts. By Lemuel Gulliver, First a Surgeon, and then a Captain of Several Ships]):
    One of the high points of rotoscoping was in a 1938 animated film based on this novel. An iconic image from this Jonathan Swift novel is its protagonist trapped on a beach by Lilliputians.

[B18] 2014 Introductory Collaborative Collegiate Set (2014) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: One character in this film is called Jimmy Two-Times due to his repeating himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Goodfellas):
    Name this film which stars Ray Liotta as Henry Hill and Joe Pesci as Tommy DeVito, who is murdered after being tricked into thinking he's a made man.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin (Charles) Scorsese):
    Goodfellas was directed by this man, who also directed Hugo, Raging Bull, and The Departed.
  Part 3 (ans: Taxi Driver):
    This other Scorsese film starred Robert De Niro as Travis Bickle, who gives himself a Mohawk and repeats into a mirror, "you talkin' to me?"

[B19] 2014 ACF Fall (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film's director makes a cameo appearance as a man who says that he's going to kill his wife with a .44 magnum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taxi Driver):
    Name this film in which Travis Bickle, a psychotic ex-marine, becomes obsessed with helping a teenage prostitute named Iris return to her parents.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin [Charles] Scorsese):
    Taxi Driver was directed by this American filmmaker who also directed Mean Streets and Raging Bull.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred [Joseph] Hitchcock):
    Scorsese has said his camera work in Taxi Driver was influenced in part by The Wrong Man, a film directed by this other filmmaker who also directed Shadow of a Doubt, Notorious, and Rebecca.
