=== STOCK CLUES: Water Margin ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 40 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 18 found, 54 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the outlaws of the marsh [or 108 Stars of Destiny; or the Suikoden; or any answers about heroes or bandits from Water Margin, Outlaws of the Marsh, All Men Are Brothers, The Marshes of Mount Liang, Shui Hu Zhuan, or Suikoden; accept 72 Earthly Fiends or Earthly Stars or 36 Heavenly Spirits or Heavenly Stars before "Heavenly Spirits" is read]
  - In a dramatic adaptation, a retired member of this group sneaks into a squire's mansion with his pearl-wearing daughter to kill everyone. [PWR]
  - A craze for depicting the members of this group was spurred by a print series that launched a full-body tattoo fad alongside the artist Utagawa Kuniyoshi's career. [PWR]
  - These characters, who are ranked by a tablet in the Loyalty Hall, emerge in the form of golden rays from a black cloud when a stone (*) tortoise is unearthed. [PWR]
  - In a novel attributed to Shi Nai'an in which these characters are divided between Heavenly Spirits and Earthly Fiends, they oppose Gao Qiu and operate under Song Jiang out of Mount Liang and the nearby boglands For 10 points, identify this set of one hundred and eight heroes from a Classic Chinese Novel. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan; or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Tale of the Marshes; or All Men Are Brothers]
  - A couple in this novel who are nicknamed "the Ogress" and "the gardener" run an inn where guests are killed and used as meat filling for food.
  - In this novel, a character is tattooed on the face instead of being executed for murdering his wife.
  - A character in this novel sees a sign warning not to cross a ridge after drinking three bowls of wine, but instead drinks 18 bowls of wine and punches a tiger unconscious.
  - That character, Wu Song, inspired a spinoff of this novel titled The Plum in the Golden Vase.
  - In this novel, Gao Qiu  pursues the "Stars of Destiny." For 10 points, name this Chinese classical novel by Shi Nai'an  in which Song Jiang leads a group of 108 bandits. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the March; or All Men Are Brothers; or Shui Hu Zhuan]
  - After he's caught eating beef without permission, a character in this novel is cursed to walk at superhuman speed.
  - An antagonist in this novel rises from a street urchin to a marshal after impressing a prince with his football skills. [PWR]
  - This novel begins with a black cloud splitting into a hundred golden rays after the excavation of a stone tortoise. [PWR]
  - A spin-off of this novel features a minor character whose pursuit of women leads to his death from (*) aphrodisiac overdose. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of the erotic novel Plum in the Golden Vase is killed by the "tiger-slayer" Wu Song in this novel, which also features characters like the "Black Whirlwind" and focuses on a band of characters led by Song Jiang.
  - For 10 points, name this classical Chinese novel written by Shi Nai'an about the 108 "Stars of Destiny." [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: The Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan or Outlaws of the Marsh or All Men Are Brothers]
  - One character in this novel is offered one hundred gold pieces, only accepting one, and then murders his mistress when she demands all one hundred. [PWR]
  - Another character in this novel leaves his blind mother to fetch water for her, then returns to discover that she has been eaten. [PWR]
  - Later chapters of this novel diverge in its "simple" and "complex" editions. [PWR]
  - A character in this novel who drinks 18 bowls of wine, then beats a (*) tiger to death, later appears in the sexually graphic novel The Plum in the Golden Vase. [PWR]
  - After being appointed Grand Marshal, the villainous Gao Qiu attempts to eliminate this novel's central group, which is made up of "Earthly Fiends" and "Heavenly Spirits." For 10 points, name this 14th-century Chinese novel that follows a group of 108 bandits known as the Stars of Destiny. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan or Outlaws of the Marsh or Tale of the Marshes or Men of the Marshes; or All Men Are Brothers; accept The Marshes of Mount Liang before "Liang"]
  - After his hut collapses under heavy snowfall, a character in this novel takes refuge in a temple whose deity he pleases with the severed heads of two enemies.
  - Sidney Shapiro's acclaimed translation of this novel amalgamates the 70- and 100-chapter "complex" editions, which diverge at the point where the main characters are granted amnesty.
  - At the start of this novel, its main characters shoot out in a black cloud upon being released from a stone statue of a tortoise.
  - After consuming eighteen bowls of wine, a character in this novel pummels a tiger to death with his bare fists.
  - In this novel, a set of characters with nicknames like "Black Whirlwind" and "Pilgrim" capture their nemesis Gao Qiu  during the fifth imperial siege of their hideout on Mount Liang.
  - For 10 points, name this Classical Chinese novel about the adventures of the "Stars of Destiny," a group of 108 bandits. [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the outlaws (from Water Margin) [or the Outlaws of the Marsh; accept any term loosely equivalent to "outlaw" such as brigands or bandits or highwaymen; accept anything mentioning Song Jiang and his companions until mentioned; accept more specific answers referring to the group, such as 108 Stars of Destiny or 72 Earthly Fiends or 36 Heavenly Stars until "Stars of Destiny" is read]
  - Only three of these characters are women, one of whom owns the Black Inn where some of them meet. [PWR]
  - One of these people is a monk with a heavy staff who is nicknamed for his flowery tattoos, while another dies of poisoned wine and is persuaded by a mother to make a concubine of her daughter (*) Yan Poxi. [PWR]
  - Chao Gai is the first leader of these people, who oppose the corrupt official Gao Qiu and are called the 108 Stars of Destiny.
  - Mount Liang is the base of - for 10 points - what group of people led by Song Jiang in a classic Chinese novel? [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Water Margin [Accept Shui Hu Zhuan or Outlaws of the Marsh or All Men Are Brothers]
  - Assholes in this novel include a pair of tavern owners that drug their customers, murder them and serve their flesh in buns. [PWR]
  - In chapter 26, a coroner steals bones from a funeral pyre to prove that a man was poisoned. [PWR]
  - After being poisoned, the protagonist of this novel dreams that the "Tower-Shifting Heavenly King" told him that an "earth fiend star" south of a river can cure him. [PWR]
  - Its protagonist kills his concubine (*) Yan Poxi when she attempts to blackmail him.
  - That character, Song Jiang, was released from a stone tortoise and opposes the corrupt official Gao Qiu, who seeks to root out the "Stars of Destiny." For 10 points, identify this novel named after the 108 bandits based in Liangshan, one of the four great classical novels of China. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Outlaws of the Marsh [or Water Margin; or All Men Are Brothers; or Shui Hu Zhuan]
  - Utagawa Kuniyoshi's woodblock illustrations of this novel inspired a craze for full-body tattooing.
  - Translated into English by Sidney Shapiro, this novel includes a character who bashes a tiger to death with his bare hands, who appears in an episode that became the basis for The Plum in the Golden Vase.
  - Its characters include the physician An Daoquan, a messenger who ties Taoist talismans on his legs to magically travel vast distances, and a warrior nicknamed "Black Whirlwind." This novel ends with its main characters fighting the forces of Fang La and beating back an invasion by the Liao Dynasty.
  - Attributed to Shi Nai'an, it centers on the conflict between Gao Qiu and Song Jiang, who leads a group based in Liangshan.
  - For 10 points, name this classic Chinese novel about the advneutres of one hundred and eight bandits. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The ukiyo-e artist Sharaku primarily painted people in this profession, including a widely-memed portrait of Otani Oniji III. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: actors [accept kabuki performers or noh performers; prompt on performers]):
    Name this profession of most people depicted in the yakusha-e genre, which typically showed them in distorted poses with highly caricatured faces.
  Part 2 (ans: Katsushika Hokusai):
    This artist started out mostly depicting kabuki actors but later shifted towards depicting everyday people and landscapes, such as in his Thirty-Six Views of Mount Fuji.
  Part 3 (ans: Suikoden [or Water Margin; or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Shuihu zhuan; accept Modern Suikoden or Kinsei Suikoden or 108 Heroes of Suikoden]):
    Utagawa Kunisada painted actors and everyday people as characters from this work in his "modern," or kinsei, series titled for it. Utagawa Kuniyoshi gained fame through his paintings of this work's "heroes."

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At 600 pages in Gladys Yang's translation, this novel is the shortest of the six novels canonized for Western audiences by C. T. Hsia ("shah"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Scholars [or Rulin Waishi; accept Unofficial History of the Forest of Scholars]):
    Name this novel by Wu Jingzi that mocks single-minded takers of the Civil Service Exam.
  Part 2 (ans: Ming Dynasty [or Da Ming]):
    Though written in a later dynasty, The Scholars is set during this Chinese dynasty. Journey to the West and Romance of the Three Kingdoms were written during the rule of this dynasty.
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh or All Men Are Brothers or Shui Hu Zhuan]):
    In The Scholars, this novel's opening is parodied when Wang Mien watches stars of the "Scholars" constellation fall to earth. This Ming-dynasty novel follows a group of 108 bandits called the Stars of Destiny.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: David Hawkes produced a translation of this novel that rendered the names of household servants in English and members of religious orders in Latin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or The Story of a Stone; or Dream of Red Mansions; or Hongloumeng; or Shitou ji]):
    Scholars of the namesake "studies" of what novel debate the authenticity of its final 40 chapters, which were published three decades after its first 80?
  Part 2 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh; or The Marshes of Mount Liang; or Shuihu Zhuan]):
    Drawing on a Confucius quote, Pearl Buck titled her translation of the 70-chapter version of this novel All Men are Brothers. The 100- and 120-chapter versions of this novel detail the later lives of 108 outlaws under Song Jiang.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur David Waley [accept Arthur David Schloss]):
    This English sinologist, also known for his translation of The Tale of Genji, published an abridged version of Journey to the West under the title Monkey.

[B4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A "record" of a lady's "journey south" is one of the few 17th-century prose works likely composed in this language without translation from a foreign one. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Korean [or hangugeo; or chosonmal; accept hangul, hangeul, choson'gul, or "eonmun"; prompt on hanja; reject "hanmun"] (Clues reference The Record of Lady Sa's Journey South and The Story of Hong Gildong.)):
    Name this language whose placeholder equivalent of "John Doe" comes from a novel about a statesman's illegitimate son, who learns magic, becomes a bandit akin to Robin Hood, and conquers two islands.
  Part 2 (ans: clouds [accept "Vanished into the Clouds" or "Kumogakure"; accept The Nine-Cloud Dream, A Nine-Cloud Dream, The Cloud Dream of the Nine, or Kuunmong] ("Vanished into the Clouds" is a chapter of The Tale of Genji.)):
    Tang dynasty dream tales inspired one of the first Korean novels, an allegory by Kim Man-jung titled for nine of these things. These things title a chapter that precedes the "transition" and Uji chapters in an 11th-century text.
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh, All Men Are Brothers, The Marshes of Mount Liang, Shuihuzhuan, Shui-hu chuan, Seoi-wu zyun, Suho jeon, or Suikoden] (Gongsun Sheng is nicknamed "Dragon in the Clouds.")):
    Yi Sik claimed that Heo Gyun ("huh GYOON") wrote an anonymous Korean novel about the outlaw Hong Gildong to imitate this Chinese novel, whose 108 Stars of Destiny include "Dragon in the Clouds."

[B5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: These works make up the youngest textual layer of the Vedas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Upanishads [prompt on Vedanta]):
    Name these texts, which join the Brahma Sutras and Bhagavad Gita in the "three sources" of Vedanta philosophy. The four Mahavakyas, including "Tat tvam asi," (tuht twam UH-see) derive from these texts.
  Part 2 (ans: Vyasa [or Vedavyasa; or Krishna Dvaipayana]):
    The Upanishads, Brahma Sutras, Maha Puranas, and Mahabharata are all attributed to this legendary sage, who narrated them while Ganesha wrote them down.
  Part 3 (ans: 108 (the last sentence refers to the 108 Stars of Destiny from Water Margin)):
    The Muktika Upanishad includes a canon of this many Upanishads, the number of Gopis of Vrindavan. While visiting a temple to find Celestial Master Zhang, Marshal Hong accidentally releases demons totaling this auspicious number.

[B6] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Chao Gai is not included in the Stars of Destiny despite being one of its founders, as he dies before the Grand Assembly can take place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan or All Men Are Brothers; accept, but DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL, Outlaws of the Marsh]):
    Name this classic Chinese novel, in which Song Jiang leads a group of rebels consisting of 108 heavenly spirits and earthly fiends.
  Part 2 (ans: marsh [accept Outlaws of the Marsh]):
    The 108 Stars of Destiny gather around one of these locations around Mount Liang. The title Water Margin is alternatively translated as Outlaws of one of these locations.
  Part 3 (ans: Fang La [prompt on Fang]):
    Despite suffering no casualties in their previous campaigns, 68 of the 108 Stars of Destiny die in their campaign against this rebel. This man's own hierarchy includes Four Great Marshals and Eight Valiant Riders.

[B7] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Minor characters in this novel such as Pan Jinlian are given the starring role in the sexually explicit novel The Plum in the Golden Vase. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Water Margin [or Shuihu Zhuan; or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Tale of the Marshes, or All Men Are Brothers, or Men of the Marshes; or The Marshes of Mount Liang]):
    Name this one of the "Four Great Classical Novels" written by Shi Nai'an, which follows the lives of a group of bandits led by Song Jiang.
  Part 2 (ans: Stars of Destiny [or Stars of Heavenly Earth; or Stars of Heaven and Earth]):
    Song Jiang is the leader of this group of outlaws, who were a group of banished spirits accidentally reborn on earth as 108 men. This group of outlaws is broken into the 36 Heavenly Spirits and the 72 Earthly Fiends.
  Part 3 (ans: Pearl Sydenstricker Buck [or Sai Zhenzhu]):
    This American author wrote a controversial translation of Water Margin titled All Men Are Brothers. This author also wrote a trilogy of novels about Chinese peasant life in novels such as Sons and A House Divided.

[B8] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After Prince Duan ("dwahn") becomes emperor, this character is appointed as the Grand Marshal and subsequently abuses his power to exact revenge on those who had previously wronged him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gao Qiu ("gao ch'yoh")):
    Name this character who Lin Chong suggests killing after he is captured by the Stars of Destiny during a siege on Mount Liang.
  Part 2 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Men of the Marshes or Tale of the Marshes or Shuihu Zhuan or Suikoden; accept All Men Are Brothers; accept The Marshes of Mount Liang]):
    Gao Qiu is an antagonist of this classic Chinese novel about a group of bandits led by Song Jiang.
  Part 3 (ans: 108 bandits):
    This is the number of bandits, or Stars of Destiny, in Water Margin.

[B9] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of this author's novels, Xu Sanguan ("shoo san-gwen") discovers that his first son, Yile ("yee-luh"), is illegitimate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yu Hua [or Hua Yu]):
    Name this author of Chronicle of a Blood Merchant. He wrote a novel about Xu Fugui ("shoo foo-gway"), who survives the Cultural Revolution after gambling away his father's fortune in To Live.
  Part 2 (ans: Ezra Pound):
    This poet "translated" a poem by Li Bai that begins while the speaker's "hair was still cut straight across [her] forehead"; that poem is "The River Merchant's Wife."
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan; or All Men Are Brothers; or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Tale of the Marshes; or Men of the Marshes; or The Marshes of Mount Liang]):
    In The Plum in the Golden Vase, Ximen Qing ("shee-mun cheeng") is a wealthy merchant who first appeared in this other classical Chinese novel, about Song Jiang ("sung j'yong") and his band of 108 outlaws.

[B10] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of the novel The Carnal Prayer Mat, Weiyangsheng ("way-yong-shung"), is a man with this occupation who has a magician splice strips of a dog's penis onto his own to enhance its power. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: scholars [accept The Scholars or The Midnight Scholar or literati or shi; prompt on intellectuals or academics]):
    Give this occupation that The Carnal Prayer Mat is alternately titled for a "midnight" example of. A loosely structured comic novel by Wu Jingzi ("woo jing-dzuh") follows several people of this occupation.
  Part 2 (ans: Qing dynasty [or Manchu dynasty]):
    Novels satirizing scholars, such as those of the "talent and beauty" genre, became popular during this final ruling Chinese dynasty. Writers such as Lu Xun ("loo shwun") wrote in the aftermath of this dynasty's collapse in the 1910s.
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh or The Marshes of Mount Liang or Shuihu Zhuan]):
    This novel's characters include Xiao Rang ("sh'yao rong"), whose nickname is "Sacred Handed Scholar." Pearl Buck made a bad translation of this novel under the title All Men Are Brothers.

[B11] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Arthur Waley argued that the Gong'an school painter Xu Wei was perhaps the most likely candidate for this book's author For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Plum in the Golden Vase (accept Golden Lotus; accept Jin Ping Mei)):
    Identify this novel centred on Ximen Qing much of whose text centres on a series of 72 sexual incidents. Its Chinese title combined the name of three of its female characters.
  Part 2 (ans: Water Margin):
    The Plum in the Golden Vase, perhaps written by Xu Wei, was based on this Chinese novel and shares several of its character including Wu Song who kills a tiger with his bare hands.
  Part 3 (ans: Hua Mulan):
    Xu Wei did actually write four plays, one of which is titled for [this character] who goes to War in Her Father's Place. This character makes the decision to be conscripted because her father is very elderly and her brother is a child.

[B12] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the start of this novel, Marshal Hong releases 108 stars of destiny, imprisoned under an ancient stele-bearing tortoise, which are re-born as heroes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Water Margin (accept All Men Are Brothers or Heroes of the Marsh or Shui Hu Zhuan)):
    Name this classic Chinese novel about a group of outlaws who gather at the Liangshan marsh.
  Part 2 (ans: Gao Qiu (accept Kao Chou)):
    This principal antagonist of Water Margin is a corrupt minister of the Huizong emperor. He frames Lin Chong for attempted assassination and tries to have him killed by bribing the guards taking him into exile.
  Part 3 (ans: Sidney Shapiro):
    The most highly regarded translation of Water Margin was written by this Jewish-American who died in 2014. This author of the autobiography "I Chose China" became a naturalized Chinese citizen in 1963.

[B13] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Wu Hsing-kuo turned this novel into a Peking Rock Opera named after its title group of outlaws. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Water Margin):
    Name this member of the "Four Great Classical Novels" of Chinese literature. In this work, Marshal Hong releases a group of spirits to fight the corrupt Song dynasty, including Song Jiang, who opposes Gao Qiu.
  Part 2 (ans: 108):
    Hsing-kuo's opera is titled for this number of heroes. This is the number of outlaws that gathers at Liangshan Marsh, and this many spirits are released from a tortoise in the first scene of the novel.
  Part 3 (ans: stealing the birthday gifts of Imperial Tutor Chai Jing [or equivalents like depriving Chai Jing's of his birthday gifts]):
    Wu Yong, Chao Gai, and other outlaws accomplished this task by disguising themselves as date traders and pretending to drink drugged wine before giving it to a convoy, who falls asleep so this action can be accomplished.

[B14] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this surname wrote about Mumbai's Parsi community in Chronicle of a Corpse Bearer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mistry [or Rohinton Mistry; or Cyrus Mistry]):
    Give this surname of an author of a novel in which the brothers Narayan and Ishvar work as tailors in Dina's flat during their country's turbulent 1970s.
  Part 2 (ans: Gandhi):
    Rohinton Mistry's A Delicate Balance is set during the rule of a person with this surname. A man with this surname discussed his methods of "peaceful resistance" and Satyagraha in The Story of My Experiments with Truth.
  Part 3 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Shui hu zhuan; or anything mentioning a tale about a Marsh or Mount Liang]):
    Mohandas Gandhi's writings were also collected in a book titled All Men Are Brothers, a phrase that has also been used to title a translation of this novel about 108 bandits who gather on a mountain.

[B15] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Chinese erotic novels, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Shanghai Baby):
    This novel by Wei Hui, which was banned in China, is about a writer named Nikki, also called Coco after Coco Chanel, who writes a collection of erotic short stories called The Shriek of the Butterfly.
  Part 2 (ans: The Water Margin [or:Outlaws of the Marsh, All Men Are Brothers, The Marshes of Mount Liang, Tale of the Marshes, Men of the Marshes, Shui Hu Zhuan]):
    The classic novel The Plum in the Golden Vase is about people like Ximen Qing and Pan Jinlian, who are minor characters from this other novel about Song Jian and his band of 108 criminals.
  Part 3 (ans: prayer mat [or:zafu]):
    The Qing author Li Yu wrote a novel named after a "carnal" one of these objects. Its title comes from a comparison the protagonist makes between his carnal desires and the loftier desires of a monk he meets.

[B16] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel begins with the release of 108 Stars of Destiny, which are re-born as heroes such as Lin Chong and Wu Song. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Water Margin (or Outlaws of the Marsh, Tale of the Marshes, All Men Are Brothers, Men of the Marshes, The Marshes of Mount Liang or Shui Hu Zhuan)):
    This is which first of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature, in which the heroes assemble in the Liangshan marshes to fight the corrupt Song government of Gao Qiu ["gow chioh"] and later its enemies?
  Part 2 (ans: The Plum in the Golden Vase (or The Golden Lotus or Jin Ping Mei)):
    In Water Margin, Wu Song slays his murdered brother's wife and her lover. But this later novel, these characters marry, and Ximen Qing ["shee men ching"] dies from sexual excess before Wu Song returns to kill his wife. This novel is now often considered the fifth Great Classical Novel
  Part 3 (ans: Pan Jinlian (or P'an Chin Lien)):
    Meaning 'Golden Lotus', this is the name of the wife of Wu Dalang and then Ximen Qing in Water Margin and The Plum in the Golden Vase

[B17] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify some Chinese novels, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Journey to the West [or Xi You Ji; or Hsi-yu chi; prompt on "Monkey", which is an abridged translation]):
    This novel follows a Buddhist monk, Tripitaka who tries to bring Buddhism to China. He is joined by Sandy, Pigsy and the Monkey King.
  Part 2 (ans: Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan; or Outlaws of the Marsh and equivalent translations; or All Men Are Brothers; or The Marshes of Mount Liang]):
    This one-hundred chapter novel by Shi Nai'an is based on the exploits of the outlaw Song Jiang and his companions during the Song dynasty. It sees the one-hundred-and-eight stars of destiny fight the forces of Gao Qiu.
  Part 3 (ans: The Plum in the Golden Vase [accept equivalent translations; or Jin Ping Mei; or The Golden Lotus]):
    Tris Cole wants you to know that this novel uses several themes from the Water Margin although it is better known for its depiction of sexual fetishes. The sex could get a bit dangerous as the concubine Li Ping'er bleeds to death and the protagonist Ximen Qing dies after an overdose of aphrodisiacs.

[B18] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's lef arm is lopped of by a magic sword, and he receives his nickname by donning the disguise of a Buddhist monk afer he leaves a bloody note acknowledging his slaughter of Inspector Zhang. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wu Song [or Pilgrim; prompt on partial name]):
    Name this powerful man who kills his brother's murderer Pan Jianlin in the novel The Golden Lotus. In another novel, he becomes excessively drunk and punches a tiger to death.
  Part 2 (ans: Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan; or All Men are Brothers; or Outlaws of the Marsh; or close approximates and synonyms of those answers]):
    Wu Song is one of the 108 bandits from this classic Chinese novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Mount Liang [or Liangshan]):
    This mountain, which also appears in the Yuan Dynasty play Black Hurricane Presents Twin Victories, is home to the stronghold of the 108 bandits in Water Margin.
