=== STOCK CLUES: Chikamatsu Monzaemon ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 40 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chikamatsu Monzaemon ("chi-kah-MAT-soo mong-za-EH-mong") [accept either underlined part]
  - A character created by this author gets sentenced to death after throwing mud on a nobleman's clothes but is spared after his execution is delayed until after mud is cleaned off. [PWR]
  - In a work by this author, the protagonist's mother thinks his son is using three packs of handkerchiefs a day to blow his nose when he actually uses them to clean up after sex. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author flees his home after stealing 300 gold pieces from a nobleman to (*) ransom his lover. [PWR]
  - In a work by this author, a character dubbed "Hard-Luck" beats up a tobacco merchant to save a courtesan whose contract he later buys.
  - The tayu  narrates works by this author, including a play featuring the doomed lovers Tokubei  and Ohatsu .
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Courier for Hell, The Uprooted Pine and Love Suicides at Sonezaki , a master of bunraku  theatre. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 CLEAN (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer:  Chikamatsu Monzaemon [accept  Sugimori Nobumori]
  - A character in a play by this author laments "my tears are now of molten iron!" after learning that a woman is now being courted by a man nicknamed "Lone Wolf." In a play by this author, a man has his hands tied to a window after he tries to stab a woman through a lattice. [PWR]
  - In one play by this author, a man hides under his lover's robes to avoid his creditor. [PWR]
  - A man nicknamed (*) "Hard Luck" beats up a tobacco merchant after he attempts to rape the central character of a play by this author.
  - The title of a play by this author could refer to New Year's festivities or the buying out of a courtesan.
  - The last scene of a play by this author features Tokubei and Ohatsu dancing in the Woods of Tenjin before they do the title action.
  - The Uprooted Pine is by, for 10 points, what Japanese playwright who wrote of love suicides at Sonzeaki and Amijima? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori] (The first clue is from Some Prefer Nettles.)
  - While watching a play by this author, a character fixates on the line "Do I nourish in my breast a serpent, a demon?" and compares a "doll-like" character onstage to his father-in-law's young mistress.
  - The title character claims to have learned about military strategy by watching a shrike attack a clam in a play by this author, in which a man performs a Caesarean section with his sword to remove a prince from a dead empress's womb.
  - A young man nicknamed "Hard Luck" fulfills his promise to ransom the courtesan Azuma in this author's play The Uprooted Pine.
  - In a play by this author, the lovers Tokubei and Ohatsu agree to die together in the "Wood of Tenjin." For 10 points, name this Japanese author of the bunraku plays The Battles of Coxinga and The Love Suicides at Sonezaki. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]
  - In a work by this author, a man uses the story of a mouse who renounces bait to escape a trap to justify his desire for his son to flee an executioner. [PWR]
  - In another work by this author, a woman is forced into marrying a one-eyed man after losing a wager on a battle between women armed with plum and cherry branches. [PWR]
  - In 1961, four major works of this author were published in translation by Donald Keene. [PWR]
  - While hiding under his lover's robes, a character created by this author learns of a plan of a plan to possess that lover from an (*) oil merchant who swindled him out of two pieces ofsilver.
  - A play by this author has a title that ambiguously refers to buying out a courtesan or to the play's central New Year's festivities.
  - This author of The Uprooted Pine wrote a play about Tokubei and Ohatsu, who kill themselves in Tenjin forest.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Love Suicides At Sonezaki, a bunraku playwright. [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]
  - In a work by this author, a man uses the story of a mouse who renounces bait to escape a trap to justify his desire for his son to flee an executioner. [PWR]
  - In another work by this author, a woman is forced into marrying a one-eyed man after losing a wager on a battle between women armed with plum and cherry branches. [PWR]
  - In 1961, four major works of this author were published in translation by Donald Keene. [PWR]
  - While hiding under his lover's robes, a character created by this author learns of a plan of a plan to possess that lover from an (*) oil merchant who swindled him out of two pieces ofsilver.
  - A play by this author has a title that ambiguously refers to buying out a courtesan or to the play's central New Year's festivities.
  - This author of The Uprooted Pine wrote a play about Tokubei and Ohatsu, who kill themselves in Tenjin forest.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Love Suicides At Sonezaki, a bunraku playwright. [GIVE]

[T6] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]
  - In one work by this author, a character uses a sword to perform a Caesarean section on his dead wife before killing his infant son. [PWR]
  - In another work by this author, a character talks to his daughter-in-law about mice traps to escape from house imprisonment. [PWR]
  - In that work titled for a New Year's tradition, the stabbing of Hikosuke by "Hard Luck" Yohei eventually leads to Yojibei buying out the ransom of the courtesan (*) Azuma.
  - A scam involving a lost promissory note and a fake extortion is executed by the oil merchant Kuheiji in one work by this author; in that work, Tokubei heads to a shrine in the Wood of Tenjin with the courtesan Ohatsu, where they kill each other.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Japanese bunraku dramas like The Uprooted Pine, The Battles of Coxinga, and The Love Suicides at Sonezaki. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]
  - One of this author's plays starts in a post office which blames delays on the rain, though in reality an employee is embezzling their money shipments.
  - He wrote a scene in which a man under a porch communicates with a woman sitting above it by pressing her foot to his throat, in a work that features a pine tree and a palm growing from the same shoot.
  - This author of The Courier for Hell also wrote a work whose title is a metaphor for buying out a courtesan's contract and which focuses heavily on New Years' traditions.
  - This author of The Uprooted Pine wrote of Tokubei and Ohatsu, who go to the Wood of Tenjin to die after finding out they cannot be together.
  - For 10 points, name this prominent creator of bunraku puppet theater, the Japanese playwright of The Love Suicides at Sonezaki. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, a character nicknamed Hard Luck returns to ransom a courtesan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]):
    Name this author of The Uprooted Pine. In another play by this author, two lovers commit suicide at a location where a pine tree and palm tree grow out of the same trunk.
  Part 2 (ans: The Battles of Coxinga [or Kokusen'ya Kassen]):
    Chikamatsu also wrote this history play about a general who rebels against the Qing dynasty. This play ends with Ri Toten being beheaded and Eiryaku taking the throne.
  Part 3 (ans: puppets [or ningyo]):
    Chikamatsu was a master of bunraku, a genre of theater that employs these inanimate objects controlled by performers.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was popularized in the English-speaking world by Donald Keene's 1961 translation of four of his plays. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]):
    Name this Japanese dramatist whose play The Courier for Hell is in the domestic genre of sewamono, as is a play by him in which the paper merchant Jihei and the courtesan Koharu kill themselves together.
  Part 2 (ans: pine tree [or matsu; accept The Uprooted Pine; accept Nebiki no Kadomatsu; prompt on tree]):
    One of these plants partly titles a Chikamatsu play set on New Year's Day, in which a man nicknamed "Hard Luck" tries to unite Azuma with her love Yojibei.
  Part 3 (ans: Noh theater):
    The Uprooted Pine is not to be confused with Wind in the Pines, a play by Kan'ami in this Japanese genre. Performers in this genre wear masks, rather than the elaborate make-up worn in kabuki.

[B3] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a play which ends with a character having both of his arms and his head cut off while the Great King of Tartary only suffers 500 lashes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [prompt on Monzaemon]):
    Name this author of The Battles of Coxinga. This Japanese author wrote bunraku plays like The Love Suicides at Amijima.
  Part 2 (ans: sewamono [accept domestic tragedies, prompt on tragedy or tragedies]):
    Many of Chikamatsu's best-known plays, such as The Love Suicides at Amijima, are in this genre of play that applies to both bunraku and kabuki. In kabuki programs, a play in this genre usually follows a jidaimono, or historical play.
  Part 3 (ans: puppets [or ningyo]):
    While Chikamatsu wrote plays for live actors in the kabuki style, his bunraku plays are written for these inanimate performers controlled from behind the stage.

[B4] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the preface to a translated edition to this book, an author stated that his edition only included 30 of its 100 chapters to focus more on the specifics of the included chapters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Journey to the West):
    Identify this book translated by Arthur Waley which he dubbed Monkey after the character Sun Wukong.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Muller):
    This translator of the Upanishads provided a German translation of numerous Indian folk tales in the collection Hitopadesa. He may be better known for analyzing the natural, physical, anthropological, and psychological types of religion in his Gifford Lectures.
  Part 3 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [accept Sugimori Nobumori]):
    Donald Keene gave the subtitle Its Background and Importance to his translation of this author's puppet play The Battles of Coxinga. Keene also published an edition of Four Major Plays of [this author], including The Uprooted Pine and The Love Suicides of Sonezaki.

[B5] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This dramatist wrote two farcical plays about a lazy, rich man named Don Cristobal who marries the beautiful Rosita, who then attracts many lovers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Federico Garcia Lorca):
    Name this Spanish playwright of the Generation of '27 who also depicted the ill-fated marriage between The Bride and The Groom in Blood Wedding.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacinto Benavente y Martinez):
    Rumor spread that Lorca's assassination during the Spanish Civil War was a reprisal for the death of this dramatist, although this man actually lived for another 40 years. He wrote La malquerida and the commedia dell'arte-inspired The Bonds of Interest.
  Part 3 (ans: using puppets [accept answers involving marionettes or handpuppets; accept ningyo joruri; prompt on bunraku or joruri] (The "love suicide" plays are by Chikamatsu Monzaemon.)):
    Lorca's plays featuring Don Cristobal are meant to be staged in this fashion. Maurice Maeterlinck's Interior uses this kind of staging, as do a pair of 18th century plays about "love suicides."

[B6] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these actions is performed at a shrine where a pine and palm tree grow out of the same trunk. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: love suicides [accept any manner of self-caused death, such as poisoning oneself, drowning oneself, stabbing oneself, etc]):
    Name this action performed by the lovers Jihei and Koharu at Amijima and Tokubei and Ohatsu at Sonezaki in namesake plays. Romeo and Juliet commit this act at the end of a Shakespeare play.
  Part 2 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon):
    The Love Suicides at Sonezaki and The Love Suicides at Amijima were written by this bunraku and kabuki dramatist. He also fictionalized historical events in The Battles of Coxinga.
  Part 3 (ans: The Uprooted Pine [or Nebiki no Kadomatsu]):
    In this other Chikamatsu play, the prostitute Azuma is in love with Yojibei, who cannot marry her due to his wife Okiku. All ends happily when Yohei is able to outbid Hikosuke for Azuma's freedom.

[B7] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following on the relationship of puppet theatre to literature:
  Part 1 (ans: (Eugen) Bertolt (Friedrich) Brecht):
    This playwright of The Caucasian Chalk Circle and Mother Courage and Her Children put on renditions of the works of Frank Wedekind and Gerhart Hauptmann, while running a puppet theatre with friends as a teenager.
  Part 2 (ans: purana (s)):
    Indian puppet theatre frequently represents stories from these works of Sanskrit literature. More narrative in content than the Vedas, the eighteen "Great" works of this type include ones named for Bhagavata and Skanda.
  Part 3 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [accept either underlined part, accept Sugimori Nobumori]):
    This Japanese tragedian created works such as The Love Suicides at Amijima for the joruri puppet theatre style, a precursor to bunraku.

[B8] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Kuheiji pretends that another character's promissory note is actually an extortion attempt in this work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Love Suicides at Sonezaki):
    Name this play about the oil merchant Tokubei, who kills himself with his love Ohatsu in the Wood of Tenjin after his money is stolen.
  Part 2 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon):
    The Love Suicides at Sonezaki was written by this author of The Battles of Coxinga.
  Part 3 (ans: Puppets):
    The Love Suicides at Sonezaki and The Battles of Coxinga are both plays in the bunraku genre, which use these objects instead of actors to represent the characters. Geppetto creates one of these objects that comes to life in another story.

[B9] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In his preface to Donald Keene's book Bunraku, Junichiro Tanizaki criticized this genre of theater, and he included a play of this type as a farcical element in his novel Some Prefer Nettles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: double-suicide plays [or love-suicides; or shinju; accept descriptive answers conveying that there are two suicides or that the lovers commit suicide; prompt on suicide; accept The Love Suicides at Amijima and The Love Suicides at Sonezaki; or Sonezaki Shinju; or Shinju Ten no Amijima]):
    Identify this specific type of plot element in puppet theater, best exemplified by a play about the paper merchant Jihei and the prostitute Koharu, as well as a play in which Tokubei foolishly jeopardizes his future with Ohatsu by lending money to his "friend" Kuheiji.
  Part 2 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]):
    This Edo-period Japanese joruri and bunraku playwright produced The Love Suicides at Amijima and The Love Suicides at Sonezaki, and wrote the wildly popular historical play The Battles at Coxinga.
  Part 3 (ans: sewamono [or kizewamono; or engirimono]):
    Chikamatsu's double suicide plays paved the way for this genre of "domestic" kabuki theater which focuses on contemporary settings, contrasted with the history-focused jidaimono.

[B10] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Japanese theater, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: onnagata [or oyama]):
    Kabuki plays were originally performed by female casts, but beginning in 1629, all-male casts were used. This is the term for male actors who play female roles in kabuki.
  Part 2 (ans: Noh [or Nogaku]):
    In this other genre of Japanese theater, pioneered by Kan'ami and his son Zeami, the actors often wear masks. Plays in this genre are separated by farcical interludes called kyogen.
  Part 3 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]):
    This pioneer of bunraku theater is known for his "love-suicide" plays and the historical drama The Battles of Coxinga.

[B11] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of this play, the unarmed protagonist frees Tei Shiryu while his companions, Go Sankei and Kanki, capture the Great King of Tartary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Battles of Coxinga):
    Name this historical play that ends with Ri Toten being decapitated and Eiryaku taking his rightful throne.
  Part 2 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon [or Sugimori Nobumori]):
    The Battles of Coxinga was a play by this author who described the double suicides of lovers at Sonezaki and Amijima. He was a prominent writer of bunraku, or puppet theater.
  Part 3 (ans: kabuki theatre):
    This Japanese style of dance-drama features elaborate make-up and includes a hanamichi, a walkway through the audience by which characters can enter and exit. This style developed in opposition to noh drama.

[B12] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer is best known for his koshokubon or "novels of sensuality" which include Life of the Amorous Man about a guy named Yonosuke who is looking for the perfect courtesan, and Five Women Who Loved Love. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ihara Saikaku ):
    Identify this first major Japanese novelist since Lady Murasaki, who was active during the Genroku period.
  Part 2 (ans: Chikamatsu Monzaemon or Sugimore Nobunori ):
    Together with Matsuo Basho and this playwright, Saikaku formed a triumvirate of the great Genroku writers. This dude was all about people who love stuff and are always killing themselves in places like Sonezaki and Amijima.
  Part 3 (ans: Donald Lawrence Keene):
    Like basically everyone else of any importance in pre-modern Japanese literature, much of Saikaku's work was translated into English by this Columbia scholar, whose Major Plays of Chikamatsu surely cemented Chikamatsu's reputation in the Anglophone world.
