=== STOCK CLUES: Abu Simbel ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: ʾAswan [or Souan or Swenet or Syene; accept Aswan High Dam or Aswan Low Dam; accept Abu Simbel or Philae or Qubbet el-Hawa until each is read; accept Elephantine or Gazirat il-Fantin until "Elephantine" is read; accept Ibhet or Bigeh or Agilkia; prompt on Egypt or Misr; prompt on Nubia or an-Nuba or Nobin until "Nubia" is read; prompt on First Cataract until read; prompt on Lake Nasser or Boħeret Naser until read]
  - Note to moderator: Read the answerline carefully.
  - At this site, the "Autobiography of Harkhuf" describes a nomarch's expedition to Yam in one of 200 painted "Tombs of the Nobles" at Qubbet el-Hawa.
  - Naqada I  millstones were made from this site's quarries of quartzite and red granite, where Hatshepsut built the Unfinished Obelisk.
  - In 394 CE, the last known hieroglyphs were inscribed at this site south of Kom Ombo in Isis's temple at Philae.
  - This site at the First Cataract was the cult center of Satis, who formed a "triad" with Khnum near a nilometer on its island of Elephantine.
  - In 1972, UNESCO designated the first World Heritage Sites after a project at this site motivated the International Campaign to Save the Monuments of Nubia; that project relocated the temples of Abu Simbel.
  - For 10 points, Lake Nasser was formed by the construction of what Egyptian city's High Dam? [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 GEODUCK (2017) | Diff: 9 | Geography
     Answer: Abu Simbel
  - A facade at this site is topped by a row of twenty-two baboons with their hands raised. [PWR]
  - Madrid, Spain was gifted the Temple of Debod [day-"BODE"] for their participation in preserving this site. [PWR]
  - It's not in Ireland, but a structure at this site was designed so that its back wall is illuminated only twice a year, in February and October.
  - Giovanni Battista Belzoni cleared the sand from an entrance at this site, which is flanked by (*) four seated statues, one of which has its entire upper body missing. [PWR]
  - The smaller of this site's two temples is dedicated to Nefertari, while the larger depicts scenes from the Battle of Kadesh.
  - UNESCO headed the effort to relocate the entirety of this site away from the rising waters of Lake Nasser.
  - For 10 points, name this temple complex in southern Egypt built byRamessesII. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Jean-Francois Champollion's ("zhawn frawn-SWAH shawm-poll-YONES") decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphs, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Young):
    Champollion built upon the work of this polymath, who correctly induced that Demotic script -- which he called "enchorial" -- included both phonetic and ideographic signs, but failed to recognize that hieroglyphic script functioned the same way. He is the subject of the biography The Last Man Who Knew Everything.
  Part 2 (ans: Abu Simbel ("ah-BOO sim-BELL")):
    Champollion made the key breakthrough in deciphering hieroglyphs while reviewing texts from this site, which was relocated in its entirety during the construction of the Aswan High Dam. This site features two enormous rock-cut temples that commemorate Ramesses ("RAM-zeez") the Great's victory at the Battle of Kadesh.
  Part 3 (ans: Tanis ("TAY-niss") [or San al-Hagar]):
    Karl Richard Lepsius' discovery of the Decree of Canopus in this city confirmed the accuracy of Champollion's method. This city contains the only fully intact tombs of pharaohs ever discovered, namely the tombs of Psusennes I ("SOO-sen-neez the first"), Amenemope ("am-uh-NEM-oh-pee"), and Shoshenq II ("the second").

[B2] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | History
     Leadin: This battle was followed by the first recorded peace treaty, which was signed by Hattusili III. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Kadesh):
    Name this large battle fought between Egypt and the Hittites on the Orontes River.
  Part 2 (ans: Ramesses II [or Ramesses the Great; or Ramses II; or Ramses the Great]):
    This pharaoh led the Egyptian forces at the Battle of Kadesh. He built a grand tomb for his consort, Nefertari.
  Part 3 (ans: Abu Simbel):
    After his conquest of Nubia, Ramesses built two temples near this site which display stone reliefs of him. Those temples at this site were covered by sand over time and rediscovered by Jean-Louis Burckhardt in 1813.

[B3] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Geography
     Leadin: In February and October, sunlight casts upon three rock-cut figures in this complex's inner sanctuary, while the fourth sculpture of Ptah remains in the dark. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abu Simbel temples):
    Name this temple complex built under Ramesses II to commemorate his victory at the Battle of Kadesh and his wife Nefertari. Its Great Temple features four large seated statues on its exterior.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Battista Belzoni [accept the Great Belzoni]):
    Though he spent part of his life as a circus strongman, this Italian archaeologist and tomb robber unearthed the entrance to Abu Simbel in 1817.
  Part 3 (ans: UNESCO [or United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization]):
    In preparation for flooding from the Aswan High Dam, Abu Simbel was relocated to higher ground in 1968 with help from this United Nations agency, which maintains a list of World Heritage Sites.

[B4] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man used an improvised battering ram to break into an Egyptian tomb less than a hundred feet from King Ay's sepulchre, which he called the "tomb of the 12 monkeys." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Belzoni):
    Name this "Patagonian Samson," a circus strongman-turned-explorer for whom the tomb of Seti I is sometimes named, since he opened it up. This Italian also introduced an irrigation system to the Egyptian ruler Muhammad Ali Pasha.
  Part 2 (ans: Abu Simbel temples or temple complex):
    In a feat of engineering, Belzoni blasted the sand away from this twin temple complex built by Ramses II for him and his queen Nefertari after his victory at Kadesh.
  Part 3 (ans: Giza [or el-Gizah, or Jizah]):
    Belzoni was the first to bust into Khafre's temple, which is the second largest pyramid at this location, behind the Great Pyramid of Cheops.

[B5] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the end of the Old Kingdom, FTPE.
  Part 1 (ans: Coffin Texts):
    Toward the very end of the Old Kingdom, the Pyramid Texts began to be replaced by these religious texts, as exemplified by discoveries at the Balat necropolis. In general, they made the afterlife more accessible to commoners than the Pyramid Texts.
  Part 2 (ans: Pepi):
    The last ruler of the Sixth Dynasty was the second pharaoh by this name, who may have had the longest reign of any ruler in history at 94 years. He married his half-sister Neith, and his later years saw the rise of regional nomarchs, signaling the fall of the Old Kingdom.
  Part 3 (ans: Abu Simbel):
    Fifth Dynasty sources tell of expeditions to the diorite quarries near this site. This place is better known as the name of two temples carved into a cliff, constructed by Ramses II as a monument to him and his wife Nefertari. Those temples were relocated to avoid damage from Lake Nasser.
