=== STOCK CLUES: Chaucer ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 70 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 32 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Giovanni Boccaccio (the first few stanzas of Chaucer's Anelida and Arcite are largely translations of Boccaccio's Teseida; Boccaccio may have met with Chaucer and Petrarch at the wedding mentioned)
  - Walter William Skeat identified that Statius is adapted between six stanzas that are translated from this author in the unfinished poem Anelida and Arcite. [PWR]
  - This author has an alphabetically later surname than a compatriot poet and a foreign diplomat that this writer may have met at Violante Visconti's wedding. [PWR]
  - A twelve book poem by this author which begins with Theseus besieging the Scythians and marrying Hippolyta is subtitled for the "nuptials of Emily," whom (*) Palemone and Arcita fight over. [PWR]
  - An English author drew much of the material for his Legend of Good Women from this author's On Famous Women and adapted this author's Teseida and story of Patient Griselda for his "Knight's" and "Clerk's" Tales.
  - For 10 points, several of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales borrow from what Italian author's Decameron? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: sonnets by John Keats [prompt on sonnets by asking "By whom?"] (The three poems are "To Mrs. Reynolds' Cat," "Sonnet. Written On A Blank Space At The End Of Chaucer's Tale of The Floure And The Lefe," and "On Seeing the Elgin Marbles.")
  - Author and genre required.
  - One of these poems states, "prithee do not stick / Thy latent talons in me" to a creature with "wheezy asthma." The words "robins" and "sobbings" are rhymed at the end of one of these poems, which responds to a text misattributed to Chaucer.
  - One of these poems, beginning "My spirit is too weak - mortality / Weighs heavily on me like unwilling sleep," was written after visiting the British Museum.
  - The speaker stands "on the shore / of the wide world" alone, as "love and fame to nothingness do sink" in one of these poems.
  - The speaker of one of these poems feels like "some watcher of the skies" or "like stout Cortez" when reading a translation of Greek poetry.
  - For 10 points, "When I Have Fears That I May Cease to Be" and "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" are what works by the author of "Ode to a Nightingale"? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Untitled Film Set (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Middle English [prompt on ME; prompt on English; reject "Old English" or "Modern English"] (The film in the lead-in is A Canterbury Tale by the Archers, Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger. Pasolini played Geoffrey Chaucer in his film The Canterbury Tales.)
  - A work in this language inspired the title of a 1944 film in which two American and British sergeants pursue a man who poured glue on a "Land Girl's" hair. [PWR]
  - A director played the author of a work in this language in a film whose British actors were dubbed in Lombard, a dialect considered posh. [PWR]
  - In a film based on a work in this language, the camera pans 360 degrees to depict the seasons as the protagonist is tied up at the foot of a tree. [PWR]
  - In a film based on a work in this language, a woman who creates an upside-down portrait of the protagonist using a camera obscura asks for his semen-stained sash. [PWR]
  - Works written in Italian, (*) Arabic, and this language were the bases for Pier Paolo Pasolini's Trilogy of Life.
  - At the end of a film based on a work in this language starring an actor of Indian descent, a bell chimes after the title character says, "Well done.
  - Now ... off with your head." For 10 points, name this language of the work that inspired David Lowery's The Green Knight. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - Carolyn Dinshaw's book on this author's "Sexual Poetics" discusses this author's coining of the sexual euphemism "belle chose," or "beautiful thing." Marion Turner's 2023 "biography" of a woman created by this author highlights that woman's question "who painted the lion?" and her "afterlife" in adaptations by Jean "Binta" Breeze and Zadie Smith.
  - Research from 2022 disputes the view, based on a deed of release, that this author raped Cecily Chaumpaigne. [PWR]
  - When a woman created by this author (*) tears pages from her husband's "book of wicked wives," he hits her on the head, leaving her deaf in one ear.
  - A character created by this author meets an old woman who makes him grant her any favor she wants, and who turns young after marrying him, when he is given a year to learn what women want most.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of the Wife of Bath. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: burning of the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus [accept equivalents for burning, like destruction and accept Temple of Diana in place of Temple of Artemis; accept Herostratus burning the Temple of Artemis] (The Don Levy film is titled Herostratus; Chaucer refers to the burning of a temple of Isis in Athens.)
  - Critics believe that the last judgment meted out in The House of Fame is for this historical event, and that Chaucer incorrectly said that it happened in Athens. [PWR]
  - In her earliest credited role, Helen Mirren advertises orange rubber gloves in a 1967 Don Levy film titled in reference to this event. [PWR]
  - A few decades after this event, the affected city refused an offer of funding from Alexander the Great, because of his divinity. [PWR]
  - Plutarch notes that this event happened the same (*) day as Alexander's birth in 356 BC, and so a goddess was too preoccupied to stop this event. [PWR]
  - A damnatio memoriae (dam-NAH-tee-oh meh-MOE-ree-"eye") was placed on this event's perpetrator, the peasant Herostratus, who became an eponym for fame sought at any cost.
  - For 10 points, name this act of arson that destroyed one of the Seven Wonders of the World. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ARCHIVE (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - This man's "European Life" is explored in a 2019 biography by Marion Turner that has chapters on his time in Vintry Ward and contextual chapters on "The Great Household" and "The Inn." Martin Crow and Clair Olson compiled all 493 known records about this man, which provide evidence for his time as a diplomat.
  - This man scandalized high society by wearing a fashionable gown called a paltok that showed off his shapely (+) legs. [PWR]
  - This onetime controller of the wool trade went on a diplomatic mission to Genoa to try to negotiate a deal to bypass the English monopoly on wool. [PWR]
  - This son of a vinter once worked in the house of Elizabeth de Burgh. [PWR]
  - This man paid a hefty fine to beat a charge of (*) "raptus" against Cecily Champaigne, which several scholars mistakenly assumed meant he raped that woman. [PWR]
  - This man's rise was helped by John of Gaunt, and he dedicated his first long poem to John's deceased wife, the duchess Blanche of Lancaster.
  - For 10 points, name this author of A Treatise on the Astrolabe better known for writing a rime royale epic poem set during the siege of Troy titled Troilus and Criseyde. [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 Logomachy (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - In a poem by this author, a character explains that words break the air and cause it to ripple, which is why the title location is found between the heavens, the earth, and the sea. [PWR]
  - An alphabetical acrostic is used to structure this poet's translation of a French Marian poem, commonly known as this poet's "ABC." The word "galaxy" is first attested in a poem in which this poet dreams that an (*) eagle carries him to a temple dedicated to illustrious people. [PWR]
  - This poet's contemporary Thomas Hoccleve called him "the first founder of our fair language." This author used a word meaning "a nice thing" that sounds like a word for female genitalia in a story about a knight's quest to find out what women most desire.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The House of Fame and The Canterbury Tales. [GIVE]

[T8] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - A poem by this author describes a building in which broken bows of former huntresses hang on walls painted with the stories of characters like Callisto and Atalanta.
  - The "Envoy" of that poem by this author paraphrases Hippocrates in lamenting "the life so short, the craft so long to learn." A woman asks Nature for a year to decide between three suitors in that poem by this author, whose narrator falls asleep after reading the Dream of Scipio, and is led by Scipio Africanus through the gate of the Temple of Venus.
  - In a poem by this author, a nun has a pendant that says "Amor Vincit Omnia" and a man narrates a section in which the rooster Chauntecleer  escapes from the jaws of a fox.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Parliament of Fowls" who wrote a work whose "General Prologue" introduces characters like the Prioress and the Nun's Priest. [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - Mary Eliza Haweis , who is best known for scholarly works about this author, illustrated an anthology of this author's works subtitled "a Golden Key." In one of his books, this author is chastised for his misogyny by Queen Alceste.
  - A character created by this author tears a leaf from the book Valerie and Theofraste, becoming deaf in one ear when the clerk Jankin slaps her for it.
  - A story by this author of The Legend of Good Women ends with an old hag turning into a beautiful princess.
  - That story by this author follows a knight who is given a year to find what women most desire.
  - A group meets at the Tabard Inn to travel to the tomb of Thomas Becket in a work by, for 10 points, what author who included the Wife of Bath in the Canterbury Tales? [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - This author tells the title woman, "I bid you find your thrall, though you, to me, do no dalliance" in his ballade "To Rosemounde." This author bemoaned "I am so sorry now that you've been light!" in his final poem, titled "Complaint Unto His Purse." At the end of one work, he admits that his works have "tended toward sin" in a poem known as his namesake "retraction." In one poem, he wrote about a poet who (*) dreams that he encounters Octavian's hunt and consoles a knight who lost a game of chess to Fortuna.
  - This author of The Book of the Duchess wrote a work whose narrator meets a group at the Tabard Inn traveling to the tomb of Thomas a Becket.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included stories from the Knight and the Wife of Bath in The Canterbury Tales. [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - This author described meeting a "worthy clerk," 'whose rhetoric so sweet" illuminated all of poetry.
  - Some scholars believe this author was present at the wedding of the Duke of Clarence and Violante Visconti, at which he may have met two of his chief influences.
  - This author drew upon an earlier Italian book when writing his Legend of Good Women.
  - This author adapted Boccaccio's (bo-KAH-cho's) Teseida to write a story in which Emily's love is battled for by Palamon and Arcite.
  - This author may have been influenced by Italian humanism while serving in the court of King Edward III, and he imitated one of Petrarch's sonnets in his poem Troilus and Criseyde.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose continental influences are clear in the Clerk's and Knight's Tales, two of his Canterbury Tales. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - Linne Mooney discovered that this author's assistant Adam Pinkhurst was the subject of a poem in which this author cursed him with "the scall" because his "negligence and rape" forced this man to "rub and scrape". [PWR]
  - The narrator of a poem by this man visits a constantly-moving wicker house and a golden palace under the guidance of an eagle he meets in a glass temple. [PWR]
  - The narrator of another of his poems falls asleep while reading Cicero's Somnium Scipionis, whereupon (*) Scipio Africanus guides him to the temple of Venus, where three tercels plead for the hand of a formel eagle. [PWR]
  - His most famous work opens by describing the "condition", "array", and "degree" of the central group in the General Prologue, and includes sections narrated by Harry Bailey and a number of pilgrims.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The House of Fame, The Parliament of Fowls, and The Canterbury Tales. [GIVE]

[T13] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Geoffrey Chaucer
  - This author's first known poetical work consists of twenty six stanzas, each of which starts with the next letter of the alphabet.
  - This author wrote "I am so sorry now that you are light" in a poem addressed "to His Empty Purse." In one of his works, Alceste complains about his badly written female characters, which leads him to create The Legend of Good Women.
  - In one of his stories, three men discover some gold coins beneath an oak tree while attempting to kill death.
  - A knight relates how he lost a game of chess to fortune in a dream from his The Book of the Duchess.
  - He inserted himself as a character in a work where he is interrupted while telling the Tale of Sir Thopas.
  - In that work, a large group of people that includes the Reeve and the Wife of Bath shares stories while on a pilgrimage.
  - For 10 points, name the Middle English author of The Canterbury Tales. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Shakespeare's Twelfth Night, the fake name Feste uses when disguised as a parson may be a reference to this other character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Thopas("topaz")(The name Feste uses in Twelfth Night is Sir Topas.)):
    Name this character whose conflict with Sir Olifaunt is left unresolved due to the story's interruption by the Host Harry Bailey, who complains of the storyteller's "doggerel" verse that is "not worth a turd."
  Part 2 (ans: GeoffreyChaucer [accept either underlined portion]):
    The "Tale of Sir Thopas" is told by this pilgrim in The Canterbury Tales. This pilgrim's bad verse is likely satirical since he shares his name with the author of The Canterbury Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: the Prioress):
    This character, who wears a brooch inscribed with the phrase "amor vincit omnia," tells the tale preceding the "Tale of Sir Thopas." Madame Eglantine is the real name of this character, who tells the story of a boy killed by Jews.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In the prologue to The Legend of Good Women, Cupid denounces the narrator for writing about this character's infidelity and translating The Romance of the Rose. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Criseyde [or Cressida or Criseida or Cresseid; reject "Griselda"]):
    Name this character who betrays her lover for Diomedes and fails to return to Troy after ten days as promised while a prisoner of war to the Greeks.
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    As penance for his depiction of her in Troilus and Criseyde, this author wrote about the stories of virtuous women in The Legend of Good Women.
  Part 3 (ans: the eighth sphere [or the sphere of Fixed Stars]):
    Critics often debate the religious meaning of Troilus's ascension to this sphere of heaven after his death. In Paradiso, St. Peter questions Dante on faith, hope, and love in this sphere home to the Virgin Mary and the other saints. You may give the number or astronomical objects associated with it.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The third and fourth lines of the General Prologue describe "swich licour ("sweech LEE-koor") / Of which vertu ("ver-TYOO") engendred is" one of these objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flowers [or floures]):
    Name these objects, red and white examples of which appear on the outfit of the squire in The Canterbury Tales.
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    This author wrote about magical gifts brought to Genghis Khan, including a brass horse with flight and super speed, in "The Squire's Tale," part of the Canterbury Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: Palamon):
    In "The Knight's Tale," this man instantly falls in love with Emily when he sees her picking flowers in a garden, sparking a romantic rivalry with his cousin Arcite ("AR-see-tay") that ends in mass combat.

[B4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: These medieval poets, whose works are collected in the Bannatyne Manuscript, are the subject of a poem in which each stanza ends with "Timor mortis conturbat me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: makars [or makaris; accept "Lament for the Makaris"]):
    Name these 16th-century royal court poets from Scotland. William Dunbar wrote a "Lament for" these poets.
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    Despite not being Scottish, this is the first makar mentioned in "Lament for the Makaris." This author wrote the poem Parlement of Foules ("fowls").
  Part 3 (ans: auld [or old; accept "Auld Lang Syne" or The Petition of The Gray Horse, Auld Dunbar"]):
    William Dunbar described himself with this word in the title of a poem framed as a "Petition of The Gray Horse." In a poem by Robert Burns often sung on New Year's Eve, this word precedes "Lang Syne."

[B5] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a poem by this author falls asleep after reading Cicero's Somnium Scipionis and dreams that Scipio Africanus is guiding him to a celestial gate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    Name this author who wrote about a debate between eagles that occurs when Nature convenes the birds to pick their mates in his Parlement of Foules.
  Part 2 (ans: The Owl and the Nightingale [or Hule and the Nightingale; or Altercatio inter filomenam et bubonem]):
    In this other Middle English debate poem, one participant says that her opponent is only useful as a scarecrow. This poem's two title birds seek out Nicholas of Guildford to settle their debate.
  Part 3 (ans: cuckoo [or cuccu or cukkow; accept common cuckoo or European cuckoo or other species]):
    In John Clanvowe's The Book of Cupid, God of Love, the nightingale defends love in a debate with this other bird, which the narrator chases off with a stone. The poem "Sumer is icumen in" asks this bird to sing.

[B6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Robin Oggins' book The Kings and Their Hawks, he uses lines from a romance titled for one of these people to argue that in medieval literature, giving up hawking was a sign of a hero's despair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: squire [accept The Squire of Low Degree; or The Squyr of Lowe Degree; or The Sqyr of Lowe Degree; accept The Squire's Tale]):
    Name this profession, one of whom of Low Degree titles a verse romance. In The Canterbury Tales, a character with this profession narrates a romance in which Genghis Khan's daughter uses a ring to talk with a falcon.
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    The Squire tells a romance about Canace, who rebuilds a peregrine falcon's coop to help her cope with getting dumped for a lowly kite, in one of this author's Canterbury Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Orfeo):
    In this poem, the Faerie King's army hunts with falcons while holding the title character's lover captive. This anonymous Middle English Breton lai reimagines the title mythical figure as an English king.

[B7] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Two answers required. A poem by one of these authors called The Legend of Good Women echoes the other author's collection On Famous Women. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio AND Geoffrey Chaucer [accept in either order]):
    Name these two authors. One of these authors borrowed plots from the other's Decameron [pause] for several of The Canterbury Tales.
  Part 2 (ans: Troilus AND Cressida [or Troilus and Criseyde; accept in either order]):
    Two answers required. Partly inspired by Boccaccio's poem Il Filostrato, Chaucer wrote an epic poem about these two Trojan lovers, which Shakespeare then borrowed for one of his plays.
  Part 3 (ans: Palamon AND Arcite [or Palemone AND Arcita; accept in either order]):
    Two answers required. These two cousins and their conflicting love for Emilia are the subject of Boccaccio's poem Teseida, which Chaucer adapted into "The Knight's Tale."

[B8] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's major works include The Book of the Duchess and The House of Fame. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    Name this 14th-century writer, often called the father of English literature.
  Part 2 (ans: The Canterbury Tales):
    Chaucer's magnum opus is this work, often credited with raising the popularity of the English vernacular. This work features a collection of stories told by pilgrims as they travel from London to the title location.
  Part 3 (ans: The Book of the Duchess (accept The Deth of Blaunche)):
    Another of Chaucer's notable works is this poem most likely written in 1368. This poem was written to commemorate the death of the wife of John of Gaunt.

[B9] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a "Lament" sees living examples of these poets "playis here their pageant, syne gois to grave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  makar s [or  maker s or  makar is; accept  Lament for the  Makar  is ]):
    Give this term for Scottish court poets including Robert Henryson. In 2004 this term was revived to describe an ofice equivalent to Poet Laureate in Scotland.
  Part 2 (ans: William  Dunbar [or William  Dumbar ]):
    The aforementioned Lament for the Makaris is by this poet in the court of James IV, who also wrote The Thrissil and the Rois .
  Part 3 (ans: Geofirey  Chaucer):
    Dunbar's Lament also mentions this poet, whose poem Troilus and Criseyde was the subject of a continuation by the makar Robert Henryson. This poet wrote the Canterbury Tales .

[B10] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In 2021, Jackie Kay was succeeded by Kathleen Jamie as the holder of a national title of this name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: makars (MAH-kur (s)) [accept makaris or "The Lament for the Makaris"]):
    A "lament" by William Dunbar lists many fellow examples, including Robert Henryson and Blind Harry, of what traditional bards or poets?
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    The first "makar" lamented by Dunbar is this non-Scottish poet, the extremely influential Middle English author of the Canterbury Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: "A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle"):
    Edinburgh's Makars' Court is paved with slabs displaying dozens of quotations from Scottish poets, including a couplet beginning "drums in the Walligate, pipes in the air" from this long poem by Hugh MacDiarmid.

[B11] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the ABC of Reading, Ezra Pound wrote that he gets more pleasure from this author's translation of Virgil than he does from "the original highly cultured but non-seafaring author." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gavin Douglas [or the Bishop of Dunkeld]):
    Name this Scottish poet whose Middle Scots version of the Aeneid is called Eneados ("en-ee-AD-ose").
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer (The pilgrims appear in The Canterbury Tales.)):
    Pound favorably compares Douglas's translation to the Virgilian fragments produced by this author, whose best-known work is about pilgrims like the Franklin and the Pardoner.
  Part 3 (ans: William Caxton):
    In the prologue to his version, Douglas castigates this man's 1490 version of the Aeneid for "shamefully" perverting the original. This printer also translated the Recuyell ("ruh-KOY") of the Historyes of Troye.

[B12] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's third section includes the first known use of the phrase "all good things must come to an end." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Troilus and Criseyde):
    Name this Middle English epic poem about a Trojan hero's doomed love for the daughter of Calchas, which later inspired one of Shakespeare's "problem plays."
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    Troilus and Criseyde is by this author, who referenced the Peasants' Revolt in the "Nun's Priest's Tale" of the Canterbury Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: John Gower):
    Troilus and Criseyde was dedicated to this other Middle English poet. This poet of Speculum Meditantis opened the long poem Vox Clamantis with an allegorical "dream vision" of the Peasants' Revolt.

[B13] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A verse romance by Geoffrey Chaucer set in this city centers on a warrior who falls in love with a widow, dies, and then reaches the eighth sphere, but is unable to enter heaven as he is not Christian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Troy [or Troia, or Ilium, or Ilion; accept Brutus of Troy] (The Chaucer poem is Troilus and Criseyde.)):
    Name this ancient city. Wace's Roman de Brut tells the story of Brutus, a man from this city who legendarily became the first king of Britain.
  Part 2 (ans: John Lydgate of Bury):
    This medieval English author's Troy-Book adapts Guido delle Colonne's wildly popular History of the Destruction of Troy. His other works include an adaptation of Bocaccio's biographies called The Fall of Princes.
  Part 3 (ans: Aeneid [or Aeneis]):
    Medieval literature about Troy drew heavily on both the Iliad and this epic poem written by Virgil, which describes its title hero's escape from Troy with his father Anchises.

[B14] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: These things structure a poem in which the lover Amans converses with Venus's chaplain Genius, who intersperses explanatory stories like Apollonius of Tyre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: seven deadly sins [or seven cardinal sins; or seven capital sins; accept "vices" in place of "sins;" prompt on mortal sins]):
    Name these things that provide a common subtitle for John Gower's poem Confessio Amantis. In the fifth "passus" of Piers Plowman, these things deliver speeches one at a time before Piers gives a crowd directions to visit Saint Truth.
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer (The collection is The Canterbury Tales.)):
    This author, who dedicated his poem Troilus and Criseyde to Gower, included a sermon on the seven deadly sins in "The Parson's Tale."
  Part 3 (ans: Redcrosse Knight [prompt on Saint George] (from The Faerie Queene)):
    In a different poem, this man visits the House of Pride, in which Lucifera and her six counselors are stand-ins for the seven deadly sins. This man is tricked by the wizard Archimago and imprisoned by the giant Orgoglio.

[B15] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Dub poet Jean Breeze performed a monologue as this character "speak[ing] in Brixton Market," and another play depicts her as a woman wearing a red dress in the Sir Colin Campbell Pub in Brent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wife of Bath [or Alisoun or Alvita; accept The Wife of Willesden; prompt on wife]):
    Name this character who is shown in "Willesden" in a 2021 play. In her original appearance, this character says, "I know well that Abraham was a holy man, and Jacob as well," to defend her actions.
  Part 2 (ans: Zadie Smith [or Zadie Adeline Smith or Sadie Adeline Smith]):
    This author adapted the Wife of Bath's Prologue for the stage in The Wife of Willesden. This author of the books Feel Free and Swing Time wrote herself into the play as an overly apologetic author in the pub.
  Part 3 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    The Wife of Bath was originally created by this author of The Canterbury Tales.

[B16] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's sequel, informed by its author's experience as a widow, explains how to run a household and suggests that it is women's job to keep men from fighting with their neighbors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of the City of Ladies [or Le Livre de la Cite des Dames; do not accept or prompt on "The Treasure of the City of Ladies," which is the sequel]):
    Name this novel where Reason gives the author a mirror to see herself as she truly is without men's disdain. In this novel, the author excavates the Field of Letters to make a refuge inspired by powerful, chaste, and holy women.
  Part 2 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    This author of The Book of the City of Ladies argued that women cannot be vile or foolish if men expend so much effort to trick and seduce them in her response to Jean de Meun's addition to The Romance of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    This translator of The Romance of the Rose used it as inspiration for a story where an old hag tells a knight what women most desire. The Wife of Bath tells that story in this author's The Canterbury Tales.

[B17] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Over the years, publishers such as William Thynne added many spurious works to collections of this author's poems, such as "In February" and "The Craft of Lovers." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    Name this author who was, for some time, credited with poems by John Lydgate such as "Beware." Poems more solidly attributed to this author include the epic Troilus and Criseyde.
  Part 2 (ans: John Gower (The latter poem is Confessio Amantis.)):
    The Chaucerian apocrypha include "In Praise of Peace," a poem actually by this friend of Chaucer. In another poem by this author, Venus's chaplain Genius explains the seven deadly sins to a lover seeking repentance.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Floure and the Leafe"):
    After Thomas Speght wrongly attributed this anonymous poem to Chaucer in 1598, it was thought to be Chaucer's for 300 years. This poem's narrator chooses whether to follow a company of virtuous virgins and knights led by Diana, or a company of lovers of "idle deeds" led by a laurel-wearing goddess.

[B18] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 2020 Margaret Atwood short story, this character and her twin sister nicknamed "Imp" murder and then cannibalize her abusive husband. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Griselda):
    Name this "patient" character whose loyalty is tested by her husband, the Marquis of Gualtieri, in the final story of the Decameron.
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    A clerk from Oxford relates the story of Griselda and the Marquis in one of the 24 stories from this author's Middle English collection The Canterbury Tales.
  Part 3 (ans: Top Girls (by Caryl Churchill)):
    Griselda is the final guest to arrive at a dinner party with Pope Joan, Isabella Bird, and other famous women from history in the first act of this play about Marlene's promotion at the title employment agency.

[B19] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Through his wife Philippa Roet, this person was the brother-in-law of John of Gaunt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    Name this person. Comptroller of Customs in the port of London from 1374 to 1386, this person lived over Aldgate during the Peasants' Revolt and was appointed Clerk of the King's Works by Richard II.
  Part 2 (ans: Speaker of the House of Commons):
    Chaucer's son Thomas was Chief Butler to four different kings and was elected to this position five times, a record not equalled until Arthur Onslow in 1754. Other holders of this position include William Lenthall, who said 'I have neither eyes to see nor tongue to speak' to a later king.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry VI):
    Chaucer's granddaughter Alice became Duchess of Suffolk, and was so associated with the policies of this king that she was tried in effigy during Jack Cade's Rebellion. This king, who ruled twice during the Wars of the Roses, was married to Margaret of Anjou.

[B20] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character becomes disfigured and lives in a leper colony in a Robert Henryson work where, after being reminded of her but unable to recognize her, her former lover donates all of his wealth to those lepers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cressida [or Cresseid; the first work is Robert Henryson's The Testament of Cresseid]):
    Name this character, the subject of another author's rime royale work which is often cited as the origin for the phrase "all good things must come to an end."
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    This author wrote the latter Troilus and Cresiyda and invented rime royale. This author is credited with spreading the notion of St. Valentine's Day as one for lovers in his Parlement of Foules.
  Part 3 (ans: Aesop):
    The central character of Henryson's Moral Fabillis, which relates some stories about Reynard the Fox, meets this author, who inspired the work, in a dream vision. This Greek author wrote many namesake fables.

[B21] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character "would weep if that she saw a mouse / Caught in a trap," and feeds her hounds roasted meat, milk, and fine bread. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prioress):
    Name this genteel character whose real name is Madame Eglantine. She tells a story in which a dead body continues to sing until a grain is removed from its mouth.
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    The antisemitic "Prioress's Tale," in which Jews murder a pious Christian child, is part of The Canterbury Tales by this Middle English author.
  Part 3 (ans: The Pardoner):
    A "shoulder-bone / Which that was of a holy Jewe's sheep" is one of the relics sold by this effeminate traveler from The Canterbury Tales. This character tells the story of three men who set out to kill Death.

[B22] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character does not get to finish telling the story of Sir Thopas before the Host interrupts him to tell him that his rhymes suck. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer [accept either name; prompt on the narrator or similar answers]):
    Name this character, who then gives a long and boring prose account of Melibee and his wife Prudence.
  Part 2 (ans: The Canterbury Tales [or Tales of Canterbury]):
    The character Chaucer serves as the frame narrator of this collection by the real-life Geoffrey Chaucer, in which a group of pilgrims traveling to the shrine of Thomas Becket tell each other stories.
  Part 3 (ans: "My wit is short, ye may wel understonde" [accept any answers indicating that he is stupid]):
    Chaucer the character isn't just a bad rhymer: in the prologue, he offers this excuse as to why he may not have ordered the pilgrims in his tales by their proper rank. A description is acceptable.

[B23] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some authors who wrote about courtly love.
  Part 1 (ans: Marie de France):
    This author's twelve Breton lais (LAY) focus on the concept of courtly love and include Chevrefoil (SHEH-vruh-fwahl) and Eliduc (Ellie-duke).
  Part 2 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    This author who frequently wrote about courtly love wrote the Parlement of Foules and a poem commemorating the late wife of John of Gaunt entitled The Book of the Duchess.

[B24] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: It's not A Midsummer Night's Dream, but Theseus and Hippolyta figure prominently in this play. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Two Noble Kinsmen):
    The title characters fight to win Emilia's hand in this Jacobean play likely co-written by John Fletcher. Three queens plead with Theseus and Hippolyta to avenge their husbands' murders by Creon in this play's opening.
  Part 2 (ans: morris dancing):
    In The Two Noble Kinsmen, some countrymen perform this action for Theseus and Hippolyta. During their preparations, it becomes apparent that one needs a "taborer" and "ribands" to perform this action.
  Part 3 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    The Prologue to The Two Noble Kinsmen credits this author, because the plot is taken from this Middle English author's "Knight's Tale".

[B25] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This is both the original title and the form of Leigh Hunt's poem "Jenny kiss'd Me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rondeaux [or roundel]):
    Name this medieval poetic form with an ABBA or AABBA rhyme scheme, in which the first few lines of the poem are repeated in each stanza.
  Part 2 (ans: Flanders [or "In Flanders Fields"]):
    Perhaps the best-known English-language rondeau is a World War I poem by Canadian lieutenant John McCrae, set where "the poppies blow / Between the crosses, row on row" in the "fields" of this region.
  Part 3 (ans: Geoffrey Chaucer):
    In a poem by this author, a group of birds sing a roundel that begins: "Now welcom somer, with thy sonne softe" after selecting their mates in a celestial temple of Venus.
