=== STOCK CLUES: Wordsworth ===
Tossup questions: 17 found, 59 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 41 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Coleridge [accept Samuel Taylor Coleridge; accept Hartley Coleridge; accept Herbert Coleridge] (The second line refers to Wordsworth's "To H. C.")
  - A member of this family replaced Richard Chenevix Trench as the first editor of the Oxford English Dictionary after the latter was appointed Dean of Westminster.
  - A poem asks a member of this family "What hast Thou to do with sorrow / Or the injuries of tomorrow?" and refers to that person as "a gem that glitters while it lives." A poem addressed to a member of this family hopes for him to "wander like a breeze / By lakes and sandy shores" and declares that "all seasons shall be sweet" to that infant.
  - That poem, which opens with a description of its title phenomenon's "secret ministry," is one of the "conversation poems" by a member of this family.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author of the poems "Frost at Midnight" and "Kubla Khan." [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth (The Bate book is Romantic Ecology: Wordsworth and the Environmental Tradition.)
  - This author and the "Environmental Tradition" subtitle a 1991 book by Jonathan Bate considered a foundational work of ecocriticism.
  - The penultimate section of a long poem by this poet mentions "an ennobling interchange / Of action from without and from within." This poet used an ABAB rhyme scheme in a poem in which the "fair works" of nature remind the speaker of "what man has made of man." A poem by this author calls nature "the nurse, the guide, the guardian of my heart, and soul / Of all my moral being." This poet of "Lines Written in Early Spring" wrote of re-encountering the "steep woods" and the "sylvan Wye" after "five summers, with the length / Of five long winters" in a nostalgic poem written in 1798.
  - For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who wrote The Prelude and "Tintern Abbey." [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth
  - In one poem by this author, the speaker describes dreams as "Kind Nature's gentlest boon" and looks "All over the wide lea". [PWR]
  - Another poem by this author compares its subject to "A violet by a mossy stone / Half hidden from the eye!". [PWR]
  - The line "God being with thee when we know it not" ends a sonnet addressed to the daughter of this author, who also wrote of days "Bound each to each by natural (*) piety" in a poem which states "So be it when I shall grow old, / Or let me die!".
  - This author described a woman "rolled round in earth's diurnal course" who "could not feel / The touch of earthly years" in "A slumber did my spirit seal", which is one of their five "Lucy poems".
  - For 10 points, name this poet who also described how their "heart with pleasure fills / And dances with the daffodils" in "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud". [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Answer: Lake District [prompt on Cumbria, Westmoreland, North West England, or Great Britain] (The sport is fell running. Thomas De Quincey rented Dove Cottage from the Wordsworths. William Wordsworth wrote A Guide to the Lakes.)
  - This natural region monopolized Early Modern pencil production after some 16th century shepherds stumbled on the world's first major graphite deposit. [PWR]
  - This region is the birthplace of an orienteering-like sport in which mountain runners must navigate for themselves while traversing unmarked land. [PWR]
  - A common completionist goal for visitors to this region is to bag all 214 peaks listed in a classic "pictorial guide" by Alfred Wainwright. [PWR]
  - An earlier Guide to [this region] includes a verse description of a difficult climb through (*) Kirkstone Pass. [PWR]
  - By making alterations to its garden, a drug-addicted tenant upset the owners of this region's Dove Cottage.
  - This region contains the highest examples of barren hilltops known as "fells," such as Scafell Pike.
  - For 10 points, the Pantisocracy was a utopian scheme hatched by writers associated with what region, including Southey and Coleridge? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Lucy poems [prompt on answers like "the poems of William Wordsworth" before "earliest"]
  - A thought experiment about "intentionless meaning" in which the second verse of one of these poems is revealed in the sand by a receding wave appears in Knapp and Michaels's "Against Theory." In another of these poems, the subject is promised "the silence and the calm / of mute insensate things" by Nature.
  - In the earliest of these poems, the speaker climbs a hill to a cottage as the "evening moon" descends toward it. [PWR]
  - The image of "a violet by a (*) mossy stone / half hidden from the eye" opens the second stanza of one of these poems that concludes with the words "O / the difference to me!" In the last of them, the speaker notes "I had no human fears" at a time when "a slumber did my spirit seal." "She dwelt among the untrodden ways" is among, for 10 points, what group of five poems about the death of an idealized girl, by William Wordsworth? [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth
  - This poet praised "truths that wake, / To perish never" in a poem that compares a child to a "little Actor" who fills his "humorous stage" with characters "as if his whole vocation / Were endless imitation." A poem by this author describes "wreaths of smoke / Sent up, in silence, from among the trees!" This poet asked, "Whither is fled the visionary gleam?" and described a time when "meadow, grove, and stream... to me did seem / (*) Apparelled in celestial light" in a poem subtitled for "Recollections of Early Childhood." A poem by this author describes a "mansion for all lovely forms" in a section addressed to his "dear, dear Sister." That poem begins, "Five years have past; five summers, with the length / Of five long winters!" and was "Composed a Few Miles Above" the title building.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Ode: Intimations of Immortality" and "Tintern Abbey." [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dorothy Wordsworth [prompt on Wordsworth; prompt on Wordsworth's sister]
  - This author redacted a passage about removing and presenting a wedding ring to a sibling, inspiring stupid theories of incest. [PWR]
  - An autobiographical work by this author ends a few months after describing the marriage of Mary Hutchinson, which this author did not attend. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a poem by a different author describes a future where this person's mind will "be as a dwelling-place/ For all sweet sounds and harmonies" after telling this person that "nature never did betray/ the heart that loved her." Like a poem written two years later, this author's (+) Grasmere Journals contain a prose description of serene flowers by a lake swaying in the wind. [PWR]
  - This person is called "my dearest Friend" in a poem recalling a trip five years prior on the River (*) Wye.
  - For 10 points, name this addressee of much of "Tintern Abbey." [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Wordsworth [accept Dorothy (Mae Ann) Wordsworth or William Wordsworth] (The poem in the first line is W. Wordsworth's "Resolution and Independence.")
  - An author with this surname wrote about a man whose "leg broke, his body driven over, his skull fractured," which inspired a poem about a leech-gatherer. [PWR]
  - The author of the Alfoxden Journal has this surname. [PWR]
  - Objects that "rested their heads upon these stones as on a pillow," as described in the Grasmere Journal, inspired an author with this surname to write about being in "jocund company" after a (*) walk through the Lake District.
  - An author with this surname described objects "Continuous as the stars that shine / And twinkle on the milky way." That author called a writer with this surname "my dearest Friend" in a poem beginning, "Five years have past." For 10 points, give this surname shared by the author Dorothy and her brother, who wrote "Tintern Abbey." [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth AND Samuel Taylor Coleridge (The poem in the second sentence is Coleridge's "To Wordsworth.")
  - Two answers required.
  - These two authors collaborated on an unfinished "Fragment of a Sexton's Tale" titled "The Three Graves." A poem by one of these two authors praises a "prophetic Lay" written by the other, whom it calls a "Friend of the Wise!
  - And Teacher of the Good!" One of these poets may have lifted from the other's "The Mad Monk" in describing "a time when meadow, grove, and stream... to me did seem apparelled in celestial light." These were the two most famous "Lake Poets." One of these poets is the "dear friend" praised in the other's poem The Prelude.
  - One of these poets wrote "Dejection: An Ode" in part as a reply to the other's "Ode: Intimations of Immortality." For 10 points, name these co-authors of Lyrical Ballads who wrote, respectively, "Tintern Abbey" and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. [GIVE]

[T10] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Lucy Poems [prompt on William Wordsworth's poems]
  - The subject of these poems may be the same as a poem that describes a lost girl's parents following her footprints through a snowstorm until they give out at a wooden bridge. [PWR]
  - In one of these poems, a maid whom there were "very few to love" lingers "beside the spring of Dove." In another of these poems, the speaker describes how he bent his way "beneath an evening moon" to the cottage of a woman "Fresh as rose in June." These poems are similar to a sequence about an unknown "Matthew." One of these poems ends with the speaker declaring that his beloved has (*) "no motion" and "no force," describing her as "roll'd round in earth's diurnal course." That poem's speaker calls the subject "a thing that could not feel the touch of earthly years." These poems, which include "A Slumber Did My Spirit Steal" and "Strange Fits of Passion Have I Known," may be about the author's sister Dorothy. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name these William Wordsworth poems whose subject is an unknown woman. [GIVE]

[T11] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud" [or "Daffodils"; accept anything relating to a Wordsworth poem about daffodils]
  - The chapter "Writing About Poems" from Helen Vendler's Poets, Poems, Poetry analyzes this poem along with one on a similar theme by Robert Herrick.
  - The speaker of Elizabeth Bishop's poem "Crusoe in England" is unable to finish a line from this other poem.
  - When this poem's speaker lies on his couch "in a vacant or pensive mood," he sees objects that (*) "flash upon that inward eye / Which is the bliss of solitude." Like a poem about an abbey, the inspiration for this poem was a walk in the Lake District that was recorded in the journal of the poet's sister Dorothy.
  - This poem is about "a host of golden" objects that are "fluttering and dancing in the breeze." For 10 points, name this William Wordsworth poem about some flowers. [GIVE]

[T12] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Wordsworth [accept Dorothy Wordsworth or William Wordsworth]
  - A poet from this family wrote "A peopled world it is; in size a tiny room" in a poem about the title "Floating Island." Two writers from this family spent a miserable winter in Goslar, Germany, where one wrote a poem that describes a dead person who has "no motion... no force" and is "rolled round in earth's diurnal course." A member of this family kept journals typically named for Alfoxden and Grasmere, the latter of which describes an old leech gatherer who appears in the poem "Resolution and Independence." One member of this family addressed another as "my dearest Friend" in a poem inspired by their tour on the Wye River, and drew on their time at Dove Cottage in a poem about a "host" of flowers.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of Dorothy and her brother, the author of "Tintern Abbey" and "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud." [GIVE]

[T13] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth
  - This poet identified "the worst pang that sorrow ever bore" as "Knowing my heart's best treasure was no more: / That neither present time, nor years unborn / Could to my sight that heavenly face restore." The title girl of one of his poems - who some say "sings a solitary song / That whistles in the wind" - shares her first name with a woman whose death he called "The difference to me." The same woman "seemed a thing that could not feel / The (*) touch of earthly years" in this man's poem "A slumber did my spirit seal." In another poem, he wrote about lying on his couch "In vacant or in pensive mood," the "inward eye / Which is the bliss of solitude," and the title golden flowers. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of the "Lucy" poems and "I wandered lonely as a cloud," also called "Daffodils." [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth
  - Lines from a poem by this author name the three volumes of the memoirs of Diana Cooper. [PWR]
  - Part of a poem by this author describes a six year old child who drops a "little plan or chart, / Some fragment from his dream of human life." He wrote a poem that describes England as "a fen / Of stagnant waters: altar, sword, and pen." A poem by this man describes a vision that (*) fades into "the light of common day" and declares "The rainbow comes and goes, / And lovely is the rose." A sonnet-elegy by this writer begins "Milton! thou shouldst be living at this hour." A poem by this man tells of a time when he thought that "The earth, and every common sight" were "Apparell'd in celestial light." For 10 points, name this author of "London, 1802" and "Ode: Intimations of Immortality." [PWR,GIVE]

[T15] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth
  - This author wrote the only poem to receive its own chapter in Lionel Trilling's The Liberal Imagination.
  - In one poem this author decries his home country as being "a fen / Of stagnant waters" and calls out to another poet who "hadst a voice whose sound was like the sea".
  - Another poem by this poet who wrote about Milton in "London, 1802" describes how "The things which I have seen I now can see now more" and opens by describing "a time when" all "did seem / apparell'd in celestial light".
  - That is this poet's "Ode: Intimations of Immortality." For 10 points name this poet who wrote about daffodils in "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud". [GIVE]

[T16] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Lucy Poems [prompt on "poems by Wordsworth" before the end]
  - One of these poems discusses how a character will see "Grace that shall mould . . . by silent sympathy" in the "motions of the Storm", but it ends when the speaker laments Nature has only lef him, "The memory of what has been, / And never more will be." In another one of these poems, the speaker says he "will dare to tell" how he fell asleep on his horse while staring at the "descending moon" before freaking out when the horse moves while he's asleep.
  - One of them ends with the lament, "But she is in her grave, and, oh, / The diference to me!" and another begins by describing a fgure who "three years grew in sun and shower." This series of poems includes "I Traveled Among Unknown Men," "Strange Fits of Passion Have I Known", and one which describes a girl who "seemed a thing that could not feel / The touch of earthly years" afer the speaker declares,"A slumber did my spirit seal." For 10 points, name this group of fve poems titled for an idealized country girl possibly based on the poet's sister Dorothy, written by William Wordsworth. [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth
  - This writer described how Garry "could not breathe beneath the load / Of the dead bodies" in a poem about the death of "six thousand veterans practis'd in War's game." In another poem, this writer explained that "The eye-it cannot choose but see; We cannot bid the ear be still," explaining why this writer sits on an "old grey stone" instead of reading books.
  - The subject of one of this author's "sonnets dedicated to liberty" has "a voice whose sound was like the sea; Pure as the naked heavens, majestic, and free." This author of (*) "Expostulation and Reply" wrote that he "never felt a calm so deep" as when he saw a city sunrise so majestic that "Earth has not anything to show more fair." This author counted the "five summers, with the length / Of five long winters!" that had passed since his visit to a structure on the river Wye.
  - For 10 points, name this poet who told Milton that he "shouldst be living at this hour" and wrote "Upon Westminster Bridge" and "Tintern Abbey." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While defending his love, the speaker of this poem asks "What merchant's ships have my sighs drowned?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Canonization" (by John Donne)):
    Name this poem which declares "we'll build in sonnets pretty rooms; / as well a well-wrought urn becomes / the greatest ashes."
  Part 2 (ans: paradox [reject "contradiction"]):
    Cleanth Brooks argued that the only way John Donne ("dun") could have said what "The Canonization" says is through this concept. The first chapter of Brooks's The Well Wrought Urn states that "the language of poetry is the language of [this concept]."
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    In "The Language of Paradox," Brooks finds paradoxes even in the "apparently simple and straightforward" verse of this poet, who wrote "Tintern Abbey."

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: While in revolutionary Paris, this poet seems to have befriended Walking Stewart, a minor philosopher who travelled from Madras to Abyssinia on foot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    Name this Romantic poet who used long walks to compose poems like The Prelude and "Tintern Abbey."
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Bell [or Peter Bell; accept "Peter Bell the Third"]):
    A ramble with a "wild rover" inspired Wordsworth's poem about this walker, who embraces Nature after a night in the Swaledale. Percy Shelley wrote "Hell is a city much like London" in a parody titled for this man "the third."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas De Quincey [or Thomas Penson De Quincey]):
    This author wrote that Wordsworth's lifetime mileage of 180,000 left his legs "condemned by all female connoisseurs." This guest at Dove Cottage used "impassioned prose" for the collection Suspiria de Profundis.

[B3] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a paper by Knapp and Michaels, a thought experiment where a poem written on a beach is changed after an ocean wave attempts to show that there is no language that lacks this concept. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: intention [or authorial intent; accept intentionless language; accept "The Intentional Fallacy"]):
    Name this concept discussed in "Against Theory." New Critics Wimsatt and Beardsley end an essay titled after this concept's "fallacy" by claiming that "critical inquiries are not settled by consulting the oracle."
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth (The preface is to Lyrical Ballads.)):
    That thought experiment uses this author's poem "A slumber did my spirit seal." This poet advocated for the "spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings" in a preface to a collection originally published in 1798.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Jacques Rousseau):
    "Against Theory" also argues that Paul de Man mistakenly separates language and speech acts when de Man analyzes the "Marion" passage in this author's Confessions. This philosopher wrote The Social Contract.

[B4] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Two answers required. This noun-adjective pair is employed in an ode after a declaration that "The Rainbow comes and goes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lovely roses [accept "Go, Lovely Rose"; accept "And lovely is the rose"; prompt on rose alone by asking "described by what adjective?"]):
    Name this noun and adjective. This pair of words titles an Edmund Waller poem about a "sweet and fair" woman who would have died "uncommended" if she had "sprung in a desert."
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet wrote, "The rainbow comes and goes / And lovely is the rose" in his "Immortality Ode," which sparked a response titled "Dejection" from his collaborator on Lyrical Ballads, Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
  Part 3 (ans: Hugh Selwyn Mauberley):
    The "lovely rose" of Edmund Waller's poem is replaced by a "dumb-born book" in "Envoi," a poem in this Ezra Pound collection titled for a figure who "strove to resuscitate the dead art of poetry."

[B5] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about flowers which "tossed and reeled and danced and seemed as if they verily laughed with the wind" in the Grasmere Journals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothy Wordsworth [prompt on Wordsworth; prompt on William Wordsworth's sister; do not accept "William Wordsworth"]):
    Name this woman addressed as a "dear, dear Friend" in the final stanza of a poem which declares that "five years have past" since its author's visit to the title place.
  Part 2 (ans: daffodils):
    Using descriptions similar to those of his sister, William Wordsworth wrote about these flowers "fluttering and dancing in the breeze."
  Part 3 (ans: Felicia Dorothea Hemans):
    This poet wrote about how Wordsworth awakened "springs of living waters" in "To Wordsworth." Her poem "Casabianca" begins by describing how "The boy stood on the burning deck."

[B6] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wonders, "What should it know of death?" about a "simple Child" in the poem "We Are Seven." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    Name this poet who reminisces about a walk with his sister Dorothy in the poem "Tintern Abbey."
  Part 2 (ans: Hartley Coleridge [accept Samuel Taylor Coleridge's son; accept "child" or "kid" in place of "son"; accept "To Hartley Coleridge-Six Years Old"; prompt on Coleridge] (The second poem is "Frost at Midnight.")):
    A Wordsworth poem calls this "happy child" "a gem that glitters while it lives." The speaker of another poem tells this person that he "shalt wander like a breeze" and "Therefore all seasons shall be sweet to thee."
  Part 3 (ans: "Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood" [or the Intimations Ode or the Immortality Ode or the Great Ode]):
    This Wordsworth poem recalls a time when "every common sight, / To me did seem / Apparelled in celestial light." Samuel Taylor Coleridge wrote "Dejection: An Ode" as a response to this poem.

[B7] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Work of Revision, Hannah Sullivan states that this poem's aim was to trace "the poet's vocation, not his whole life," and notes how it was revised over 50 years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prelude (by William Wordsworth)):
    Name this long autobiographical poem that provides the title of Sullivan's 2023 collection Was It For This. In its first book, the narrator takes an "elfin" boat out onto a lake and is overwhelmed by a distant peak.
  Part 2 (ans: "Howl"):
    Sullivan's The Work of Revision analyzes Allen Ginsberg's release of an "Original Draft Facsimile" of this poem 30 years after its publication. Its second section describes the idol Moloch.
  Part 3 (ans: Heraclitus [or Heraclitus of Ephesus or Herakleitos; accept "That Nature Is a Heraclitean Fire and of the Comfort of the Resurrection" or "Repeat Until Time: The Heraclitus Poem"]):
    Sullivan's poem "Repeat Until Time" is subtitled for this man. A Gerard Manley Hopkins poem whose title uses this man's name as an adjective ends by stating that "this Jack" is "immortal diamond."

[B8] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a putative invocation of Plato's cave allegory, this poem describes a "legion of wild thoughts" that "rest... in the still cave of the witch Poesy" and "seek... ghosts of all things that are." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mont Blanc: Lines Written in the Vale of Chamouni"):
    Name this Percy Shelley poem that opens by comparing the "feeble brook" of "human thought" to "the everlasting universe of things," which is said to "flow through the mind" and "roll its rapid waves."
  Part 2 (ans: The Prelude, Book VI (by William Wordsworth)):
    In a scene from this poem by a different author, the speaker is said to have "grieved" after having "first beheld" Mont Blanc, since "a soulless image on the eye" had "usurped upon a living thought / That never more could be."
  Part 3 (ans: Lord Byron [or George Gordon, Lord Byron]):
    One of seven spirits declares Mont Blanc "the monarch of mountains" by virtue of its "throne of rocks," "robe of clouds," and "diadem of snow" at the beginning of this author's verse drama Manfred.

[B9] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem by this author, "poetry" is given as the reason why a character lets a wolf buy her a drink and then kills him with an ax 10 years later. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carol Ann Duffy):
    Name this author of "Little Red-Cap." This author collected poems about female counterparts to famous male figures such as Charles Darwin and Pontius Pilate in The World's Wife.
  Part 2 (ans: William Shakespeare):
    In a poem from The World's Wife, this man's widow reflects on being bequeathed his "second best bed." That poem, "Anne Hathaway," is set after this author is buried in his birthplace of Stratford-upon-Avon.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy Wordsworth [accept descriptions involving William Wordsworth's sister; prompt on Wordsworth] (The first poem is "Dorothy Wordsworth's Christmas Birthday." The second poem is "Tintern Abbey" by William Wordsworth.)):
    Description acceptable. In a Duffy poem, this person "ages one year in an hour" waiting to celebrate her "Christmas Birthday." A poem addressing this person as a "dear, dear Friend" notes that "five years have past" since a visit to the title place.

[B10] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about 19th-century British poetry that praises paganism, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Algernon Swinburne [or Algernon Charles Swinburne]):
    This poet decried the replacement of paganism by Christianity in his "Hymn to Proserpine." He also wrote the verse drama Atalanta in Calydon.
  Part 2 (ans: "The World Is Too Much with Us" (by William Wordsworth)):
    The speaker of this sonnet exclaims "Great God! I'd rather be a pagan suckled in a creed outworn" so that he might "hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn." This sonnet's speaker laments, "little we see in Nature that is ours."
  Part 3 (ans: John Keats):
    This poet's inclusion of a "Hymn to Pan" in his poem Endymion led Wordsworth to quip that it was "a very pretty piece of paganism." This poet's interest in the classics is also evident in his "Ode on a Grecian Urn."

[B11] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for this university begins "Softly I am leaving, / Just as softly as I came; / I softly wave goodbye / To the clouds in the western sky." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cambridge University [accept "On Leaving Cambridge," "Leaving Cambridge Again," "Farewell Again, Cambridge," or "Saying Good-bye to Cambridge Again"; accept "Zai Bie Kangqiao"]):
    Name this university where a stone bears an inscription of lines from Xu Zhimo's ("shoo jurr-mwoh's") best-known poem, which is about leaving this university.
  Part 2 (ans: Rupert Brooke [or Rupert Chawner Brooke] (The sonnet is "The Soldier.")):
    This poet declared "For Cambridge people rarely smile" in "The Old Vicarage, Grantchester." A sonnet by this poet begins "If I should die, think only this of me" before describing "rich earth" with "a richer dust concealed."
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet described his "Residence at Cambridge" in the third book of his long autobiographical poem, The Prelude.

[B12] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem sees this animal "frail, gaunt, and small" when leaning "upon a coppice gate." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the darkling thrush (The poem is by Thomas Hardy.)):
    Name this title animal whose song expresses "some blessed Hope, whereof he knew/ and I was unaware." It is described with the same unusual adjective used for a plain in "Dover Beach."
  Part 2 (ans: John Clare):
    In "Pleasure's Past," this poet describes a thrush in the Northamptonshire dialect as a "speckt throstle." This poet narrated a starving, four day escape from a mental asylum in "Journey Out of Essex."
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet's "The Tables Turned" exclaims "how blithe the throstle sings!" This Romantic poet of "Tintern Abbey" collaborated with Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads.

[B13] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A Jennifer Chang poem declares, "[these objects] can go fuck themselves... I, too, have a big messy head / on a fragile stalk." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: daffodils [prompt on flowers] (The Chang poem is "Dorothy Wordsworth.")):
    Name these objects, which are "Continuous as the stars that shine / And twinkle" in William Wordsworth's poem "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud."
  Part 2 (ans: Stevie Smith [or Florence Margaret Smith; prompt on Smith] (The Smith poem is "Thoughts about the Person from Porlock.")):
    This poet referenced Wordsworth's "Ode: Intimations of Immortality" in a poem that begins, "Never for ever, for ever never." This author mocked Coleridge in a poem that claims the Person from Porlock "had a cat named Flo."
  Part 3 (ans: Julia Alvarez):
    The speaker examines their own "heady, sweaty arm" in this poet's "Intimations of Mortality." Dede ("day-DAY") is the only Mirabal sister who survives in this Dominican-American author's novel In the Time of the Butterflies.

[B14] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem describes this type of thing as "sweet fetter'd" "like Andromeda." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sonnets [accept "A sonnet is a moment's monument"; accept "On the Sonnet"; prompt on poems]):
    Name this type of thing compared to a "Memorial from the Soul's eternity to one dead deathless hour" in a Dante Gabriel Rossetti poem that calls one of these things "coin" whose face reveals the soul and "a moment's monument."
  Part 2 (ans: John Keats):
    This poet called sonneteers "misers of sound and syllable" in the sonnet "If By Dull Rhymes Our English Must Be Chain'd." This poet of the sonnet "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" wrote "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    In this poet's sonnet "Scorn not the Sonnet," he compares the sonnet to a key for Shakespeare and a trumpet for Milton. This author apostrophized "Milton! thou shouldst be living at this hour" in his sonnet "London, 1802."

[B15] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem opens with the speaker saying that "Whate'er its mission, the soft breeze can come / To none more grateful than to me; escaped/From the vast city." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prelude):
    Name this long biographical poem that includes descriptions of the author's time at Cambridge and crossing the Alps.
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet intended for The Prelude to be a prologue to The Recluse. Both The Recluse, which was never finished, and Lyrical Ballads were collaborations between this poet and Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
  Part 3 (ans: Mount Snowdon):
    In the Conclusion of The Prelude, Wordsworth describes this place as a mind "that feeds upon infinity" and that is "sustained/by recognitions of transcendent power."

[B16] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In Art Objects, Jeanette Winterson compared a testimony against this author to a professor who insisted Matisse's painting style was the result of astigmatism rather than intention. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gertrude Stein):
    Name this American expatriate in Paris, whose Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas was criticized by artists such as Henri Matisse for its lack of realism.
  Part 2 (ans: The Prelude [or The Prelude or, Growth of a Poet's Mind; An Autobiographical Poem] (by William Wordsworth)):
    Winterson compared The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas to this poem, whose writer also had the "audacity" to write about himself. In this long autobiographical poem, the author describes his ascent of Mount Snowdon.
  Part 3 (ans: Edith Sitwell [or Dame Edith Louisa Sitwell] (The poem is "Still Falls the Rain.")):
    This critic arranged the Oxford lecture "Composition as Explanation," in which Stein discusses her process of writing Three Lives and The Making of Americans. This author wrote a poem about a phenomenon that is "dark as the world of man, black as our loss / Blind as the nineteen hundred and forty nails upon the Cross."

[B17] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A short poem by Gerard Manley Hopkins twice asks "How can he be? The words are wild" in attacking the ridiculousness of a line from this poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "My Heart Leaps Up" [accept "The Rainbow"]):
    Name this short poem which asserts "And I could wish my days to be / bound each to each by natural piety" after proclaiming "The Child is father of the man."
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This British Romantic used three lines from his poem "My Heart Leaps Up" as the epigraph to his much longer poem "Ode: Intimations of Immortality."
  Part 3 (ans: "Surprised by Joy"):
    On the other hand, Hopkins was fond of using this phrase by Wordsworth to describe the purpose of "instress" and "inscape." An incident in which Wordsworth forgot about the premature death of his daughter inspired the poem of this title, which is immediately followed by the phrase "impatient as the wind."

[B18] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Robert Browning's "The Lost Leader" blasts this writer for his turn towards conservatism, which is evidenced by his "Ode to Duty." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    Name this writer who related his political disillusionment through the story of "The Solitary" in his long poem, The Excursion.
  Part 2 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This poet lamented Wordsworth's abandonment of "songs consecrate to truth and liberty" in his poem "To Wordsworth." He gave voice to his own political ideals in such poems as "Ode to the West Wind."
  Part 3 (ans: the egotistical sublime):
    In a letter to Richard Woodhouse, Keats coined this critical two-word phrase for the way Wordsworth's "poetical character...stands alone." Keats also called himself a "chameleon poet" in contrast to this type of genius.

[B19] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about flowers in Herrick's poetry.
  Part 1 (ans: daffodils [accept "To Daffodils"] (the other poem is Wordsworth's "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud")):
    The speaker of one poem by Herrick states that he "weeps to see" these flowers "haste away so soon." The speaker of a poem by a different author states that whenever he lies on his couch "in vacant or in pensive mood," these flowers "flash upon that inward eye which is the bliss of solitude."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Argument of His Book"):
    The speaker of this poem by Herrick claims to write of "how roses first came red and lilies white." This opening poem of Hesperides begins with the speaker stating that he will "sing of brooks, of blossoms, birds and bowers, of April, May...June and July-flowers."

[B20] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem inspired by this event was first published in 1790 as a Pindaric ode but was revised intermittently until its final publication in 1834. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the death of Thomas Chatterton):
    Identify this event that inspired a John Keats sonnet describing its subject as a "half-blown flow'ret which cold blasts amate."
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet wrote of Chatterton's "sleepless soul," and of how the lives of poets "begin in gladness" but end in "despondency and madness" in his poem "Resolution and Independence."
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This other poet described Chatterton, who "rose pale, his solemn agony... not yet faded from him," in a pastoral elegy lamenting John Keats's early death titled Adonais ("AD-oh-NAY-iss").

[B21] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: John Donne's "The Canonization" claims "We'll build in [these things] pretty rooms." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sonnets [prompt on poems]):
    Name these things. Dante Gabriel Rossetti analogized them to "a coin" whose "face reveals / The soul" in a poem that begins by declaring one of these things to be "a moment's monument."
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    In a sonnet, this Romantic poet advised a critic who was "mindless of its honours" to "Scorn not the sonnet." He described hearing "old Triton blow his wreathed horn" to close his sonnet "The World is Too Much With Us."
  Part 3 (ans: William Shakespeare):
    Wordsworth's "Scorn not the sonnet" claims "with this key / [this author] unlocked his heart." This author's Sonnet 18 asks "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"

[B22] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author included "Girl" a prose-poem about a mother giving instructions to her daughter, with a refrain of "Don't be a slut", in the collection At the Bottom of the River. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jamaica Kincaid):
    Identify this Antiguan-American author of Annie John and Lucy.
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    The protagonist of Kincaid's Lucy repeatedly mentions her hatred of daffodils, which resulted from her having to recite this poet's "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud" as a child. This poet co-wrote Lyrical Ballads with Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
  Part 3 (ans: a library):
    In A Small Place, Kincaid's excoriation of the Antiguan tourist industry, Kincaid laments the destruction of one of these buildings in an earthquake. A fictional one of these buildings has an infinite number of hexagonal rooms.

[B23] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Thomas de Quincey wrote about enjoying a quart of laudanum in this location, which was also home to a writer who wrote Recollection of a Tour Made in Scotland. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dove Cottage [accept The Dove and Olive Branch]):
    Name this house where lines including 'The cataracts blow their trumpets from the steep' and 'nor know we anything so fair/as is the smile upon thy face' were composed.
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    Dove Cottage was at one point occupied by this poet and his sister, Dorothy. This poet wrote a poem in which the narrator tells of how his 'heart with pleasure fills/And dances with the daffodils' in "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud".
  Part 3 (ans: Macbeth [accept On The Knocking at The Gate in Macbeth]):
    Along with Confessions of an Opium Eater, Thomas de Quincey is famous for writing a work discussing the knocking at the gate of a castle which succeeds a murder in this play by Shakespeare, which produced 'an effect for which [de Quincey] never could account.'

[B24] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In a poem titled for "Death" and a doctor named for these objects, Robert Burns described a pharmacist whose deadly medicines are driving Death out of business. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hornbooks [accept "Death and Doctor Hornbook"]):
    Name these educational tools common between 1550 and 1900, which generally consisted of a page containing the letters of the alphabet, numbers, and a short prayer, pasted to a sheet of the title substance.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmenta [or Nicostrata]):
    In many early modern textbooks, this Ancient Roman goddess and inventor of the alphabet is shown holding a hornbook. According to legend, this leader of the Camenae fled from Greece with her son Evander.
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This English writer compared markings on gravestones to a "second" type of hornbook in one of his "Essays Upon Epitaphs." In an 1802 preface to a co-authored poetry collection, this man claimed that good poetry comes from the "spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings."

[B25] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "Oh! There is blessing in this gentle breeze." For 10 points each, answer some questions on a poem:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prelude):
    The narrator of this poem separately scales Snowdon, and after stealing a boat is chased by a "grim shape" as he experiences a "troubled pleasure". This autobiographical poem was subtitled The Growth of a Poet's Mind.
  Part 2 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet of The Prelude was born in Cockermouth in 1770 and collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads.
  Part 3 (ans: Residence at Cambridge):
    "The labouring time of autumn, winter, spring, / Eight months! rolled pleasingly away" during this book of The Prelude. Moving on from his "Childhood and School-Time", Wordsworth adopts a lighter tone in this book.
