=== STOCK CLUES: John Berryman ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 28 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Berryman [or John Allyn Smith, Jr]
  - In Olive Kitteridge, the depressed Kevin Coulson remembers a poem by this author that mentions "Hemingway in despair, Hemingway at the end".
  - This author observes that "we [...] flash and yearn" like the sky and sea in a poem ending with a dog leaving behind the "wag" of its tail.
  - This 20th-century poet started twelve consecutive lines with the words 'I am' in a poem labelling himself "the blackt-out man" and "the king of the pool".
  - A plea to "save us from shotguns & fathers' (*) suicides" was written by this poet, who called life "a handkerchiefsandwich" in a 'Confession' featuring the character 'Mr.
  - Bones'.
  - This poet remembered being told "you have no Inner Resources" in a poem that opens "Life, friends, is boring".
  - The character 'Huffy' Henry appears in, for 10 points, which Confessional poet's Dream Songs? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 TELEOLOGY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Answer: John Berryman [prompt on John Smith]
  - This person "wrote like wet paper-mache" before he "went the Hemingway" according to a positive shout-out in "We Call Upon the Author" by Nick Cave, whose 1992 album was titled for a "dream" had by a character inspired by this person.
  - The second half of a song titled for this person's birth name quotes a Beach Boys song after this man says "It was half a second in, I was halfway down / Do you think I wanted to turn back around and teach a class?" That song from Okkervil River's The Stage Names is titled for this man's birth name and the word "sails." In a song from Boys and Girls in America, this person says "I surrounded myself with doctors and deep thinkers / But big heads and soft bodies make for lousy lovers." A poem by this author says "Ghastly, / with open eyes, he attends, blind. / All the bells say: too late. [PWR]
  - (*) This is not for tears" before concluding "Nobody is ever missing." Each of the four season finale episodes of Succession draws its episode title from that poem by this poet.
  - The Hold Steady's song "Stuck Between Stations" describes the suicide of this poet by jumping off the Washington Avenue Bridge in Minneapolis.
  - A collection by this author opens "Huffy Henry hid the day, / unappeasable Henry sulked." For 10 points, name this confessional poet of The Dream Songs. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Berryman [or John Allyn McAlpin Berryman; prompt on John Allyn Smith, Jr.]
  - The unnamed narrator is encouraged to write a biography of this author by the older woman Sadie in Andrew Palmer's novel The Bachelor.
  - The speaker of a poem by this author calls himself "the king of the pool" and "the little man who smokes and smokes" before referring to himself as "Pussy-cat!" This author described a man who "rose with his gun and went outdoors by my window / and did what was needed" in a poem reflecting on his father's suicide.
  - The fourteenth poem in a collection by this author begins "Life, friends, is boring.
  - We must not say so."This author wrote a collection of three-stanza, eighteen-line poems that depict conversations between Mr.
  - Bones and his alter ego, Henry.
  - For 10 points, name this American confessional poet who wrote many Dream Songs. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Berryman
  - This poet claimed that "Death is a German expert" and asked what a little boy who dropped his ball should do, since he is "learning ... the epistemology of loss." This poet of Love and Fame and Delusions, Etc. wrote "I spit upon this dreadful bankers grave" and wrote about a "huffy" man who "hid the day" and "sulked" while "empty grows every bed." This poet concluded he had "no inner resources" and claimed "Life, friends, is boring" in a collection inspired by the suicide of his father.
  - He asked a woman (*) "moved you not, restless, waiting for [your husband]?" in a work addressed to the author of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America, and expanded his most famous work in His Toy, His Dream, His Rest.
  - For 10 points, name this Confessional poet with the alter ego Henry, who wrote Homage to Mistress Bradstreet and The Dream Songs. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Berryman
  - A poem by this author tells its addressee, "We are on each other's hands who care.
  - Both of our worlds un-handed us," and concludes with the request, "Hover, utter, still, a sourcing whom my lost candle like the firefly loves." This poet wrote, "My daughter's heavier.
  - Light leaves are flying," in a poem that follows one about want-ing to dig up the grave of his father, who committed suicide when his son was eleven.
  - Another of his poems begins by declaring, "Life, friends, is boring." This author's collection His Toy, His Dream, His Rest expanded to 385 poems his set of 18-line poems about an alter ego named Henry.
  - For 10 points, name this suicidal Ameri-can poet of Homage to Mistress Bradstreet and The Dream Songs. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: John Berryman
  - A poem addressed by this man to William Carlos Williams speaks of delivering "infinite babies" and of having "Too many page-proofs to read." A woman who "might as well be on Mars" "fills her compact and delicious body/with Chicken Paprika" in another poem by him. [PWR]
  - This poet concludes that he has no "Inner Resources" in a poem where he admits that (*) "Life, friends, is boring." The first poem in that cycle by him ends with empty beds and describes the world as "like a woolen lover" and the "unappeasable" title character "pried open for all to see." For 10 points, name this poet, whose character Henry appears in The Dream Songs, and who wrote "Homage to Mistress Bradstreet". [PWR,GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: While staying in this place, a poet misquoted his own poem in a letter to his daughter Mary reading "First must thou go the road to hell / & to the bower of Circe's daughter Proserpine." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: St. Elizabeths Hospital [accept "Visits to St. Elizabeths"; prompt on mental hospital or insane asylum]):
    Name this place that titles a nursery rhyme-like Elizabeth Bishop poem that mentions a "Jew in a newspaper hat." Charles Olson commented on the "jumps in conversation" undertaken by his friend living in this place.
  Part 2 (ans: Ezra Pound):
    St. Elizabeths Hospital was the unwilling home of this poet after his capture in Italy for broadcasting fascist propaganda.
  Part 3 (ans: John Berryman [prompt on John Allyn Smith, Jr] (The poem is "Dream Song 145.")):
    During a visit to St Elizabeths, this poet recalled Pound excitedly greeting him by mentioning Wyndham Lewis's support of Truman. This poet described his father's suicide by noting he "rose with his gun and went outdoors by my window / and did what was needed."

[B2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker is "trying to forgive" this figure who he "cannot read that wretched mind" of after he "rose with his gun" to do "what was needed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Berryman's Father):
    Name this figure who is revealed to have shot himself "in a Florida dawn" in another poem. The speaker stands above this figure's grave "with rage" before spitting on it.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Hayden):
    This poet asked, "what did I know of love's austere and lonely offices?" in a poem where "No one ever thanked" his father in "Those Winter Sundays." This poet was inspired by the Amistad mutiny to write "The Middle Passage."
  Part 3 (ans: Walt Whitman):
    A father entreats his son, "Weep not, child," a poem by this author set "On the Beach at Night." This author included poems like "Song of Myself" in his collection Leaves of Grass.

[B3] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A work dedicated to this poet reminisces about a time when "underseas fellows... drank and eyed the chicken-hearted shadows of the world" and observes "we poets begin in our youth in sadness; thereof in the end come despondency and madness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this author, who wrote a story about a man watching a video of his parents' courtship in "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities."
  Part 2 (ans: John Berryman):
    In addition to that Robert Lowell poem, Delmore Schwartz was also the dedicatee of twelve elegies by this poet. This poet wrote as "Henry" and claimed "Life, friends is boring. We must not say it so" in The Dream Songs.
  Part 3 (ans: Saul Bellow):
    Delmore Schwartz' career served as inspiration for the character Von Humboldt Fleisher in Humboldt's Gift, a novel by this Canadian-American author of Henderson the Rain King and The Adventures of Augie March.

[B4] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character narrates a fairytale about a man carrying his house on his head in his "Letter no. whatever." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maximus [or The Maximus Poems (by Charles Olson)]):
    Name this resident of Gloucester, Massachusetts, modeled after a wandering philosopher from Tyre, who purports to "tell you / what is a lance, who obeys the figures of / the present dance," in a poem addressed to "you" which opens a three volume poetry collection.
  Part 2 (ans: Dream Songs [by John Berryman]):
    This set of 385 poems, most of them from the collection His Toy, His Dream, His Rest, follows an alter-ego of the poet named Henry, who declares "I saw nobody coming, so I went instead" in a "confession" addressed to his friend Mr. Bones.
  Part 3 (ans: Langston Hughes):
    In this poet's stories, the everyman Jesse B. Semple tells stories to a writer alter-ego named Boyd exchange for liquor. In "Harlem," this poet asked "what happens to a dream deferred?"

[B5] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem in this poet's best known collection describes his father as feeling "as bad as Whitman in his tower" before shooting himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Berryman):
    Name this Confessional American poet who, before killing himself in 1971, wrote about his alter-ego Henry in his collection The Dream Songs.
  Part 2 (ans: William Carlos Williams):
    One of the Dream Songs is an elegy for this "lovely man," who "delivered infinite babies, in one great birth." This pediatrician wrote about a doctor forcing a sick child to open her mouth in the weirdly sexual short story "The Use of Force."
  Part 3 (ans: blackface [or minstrels]):
    In controversial Dream Songs such as "I'm scared a lonely," Henry adopts the dialect used by performers of this type. White actors often donned this makeup to portray slaves in adaptations of Uncle Tom's Cabin.

[B6] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem addressed to this person begs, "Return, return, sweet Sol from Capricorn," and later states, "I wish my Sun may never set, but burn within the Cancer of my glowing breast." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Simon Bradstreet [accept Anne Bradstreet's husband; prompt on my dear and loving husband]):
    Name this addressee of a poem that asks, "how stayest thou there, wilst I at Ipswich lie?" because this person is "absent upon public employment." In another poem, this person is told, "If ever two were one, then surely we."
  Part 2 (ans: America):
    Anne Bradstreet gained fame after the publication of a poetry collection that describes her as the "Tenth Muse, lately sprung up in" this place. Phyllis Wheatley wrote about "being brought from Africa" to here.
  Part 3 (ans: John Berryman [or John Allyn Smith, Jr.]):
    This other poet wrote about how "my lost candle like the firefly loves," in "Homage to Mistress Bradstreet." He wrote, "Huffy Henry hid the day, unappeasable Henry Sulked" to open his Dream Songs.

[B7] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Geography
     Leadin: One poem in this collection ends by noting "somehow a dog has taken itself & its tail considerably away into mountains or sea or sky, leaving behind: me, wag." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream Songs [or:77 Dream Songs]):
    Name this collection which also includes the opening line "Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so."
  Part 2 (ans: John Berryman):
    The Dream Songs were written by this American Confessional poet.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This other poet wrote "I used to want to live to avoid your elegy" in "For John Berryman." He wrote "For the Union Dead" and "Skunk Hour."

[B8] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer analyzed the poetry of Wallace Stevens in On Extended Wings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helen Vendler):
    Name this literary critic, who also wrote a vitriolic review of a fellow poet's anthology of twentieth-century American poetry.
  Part 2 (ans: John Berryman):
    In her book The Given and the Made, Vendler analyzed several of this poet's Dream Songs. This Confessional poet also wrote an "Homage to Mistress Bradstreet."
  Part 3 (ans: Sylvia Plath):
    Vendler wrote an article in the New York Times about this other Confessional poet "playing Pygmalion to her own Galatea." This poet's collection Ariel was published two years after her suicide in 1963.

[B9] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A section titled "Opus Posthumous" opens the second volume of this collection, which is called His Toy, His Dream, His Rest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dream Songs):
    Name this semi-autobiographical collection of poems whose first entry opens with the lines, "Huffy Henry hid the day, unappeasable Henry sulked".
  Part 2 (ans: John Berryman [or John Allyn Berryman]):
    This Confessional poet of The Dream Songs committed suicide at the University of Minnesota in 1972. Ben Shahn illustrated his sequence Homage to Mistress Bradstreet.
  Part 3 (ans: Stephen Crane):
    In 1950, Berryman published a study of this earlier American poet. His first collection includes poems beginning "A god in wrath / was beating a man" and "I saw a man pursuing the horizon", and opens with a poem describing the "clang and clang of spear and shield".

[B10] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about colonial American poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Taylor):
    This Metaphysical poet's works include God's Determinations Touching His Elect and "Upon a Spider Catching a Fly," but he is best known for his poem "The Joy of Church Fellowship Rightly Attended," which begins "Make me, O Lord, thy spinning wheel complete."
  Part 2 (ans: Anne Bradstreet):
    The first published poet in colonial America was this woman, who wrote The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America and "To My Dear and Loving Husband."
  Part 3 (ans: John Berryman):
    This other poet wrote "The governor your husband lived so long moved you not, restless waiting for him?" to begin "Homage to Mistress Bradstreet." His alternate persona of the self-loathing Henry narrates his Dream Songs.

[B11] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem claims, "My love is such that rivers cannot quench," and requests, "let's so persevere that when we live no more, we may live ever. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "To My Dear and Loving Husband"):
    Name this poem that begins, "If ever two were one, then surely we."
  Part 2 (ans: Anne Bradstreet):
    "To My Dear and Loving Husband" was written by this early American poet of The Tenth Muse, Lately Sprung Up in America.
  Part 3 (ans: John Berryman):
    Bradstreet is the subject of a poem by this other American poet, who explored a parallel self named Henry in a collection with an entry beginning, "Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so."
