=== STOCK CLUES: Crimean War ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 47 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Crimean Peninsula [or Crimea; or Krym; or Qırım; accept Crimean Khanate; accept Crimean War]
  - In this subnational region, consul Louis Ge  oversaw the return of a looted fog bell in 1913.
  - French and Icelandic sources record that Siward of Gloucester founded a settlement of Anglo-Saxon refugees in this region called New England.
  - This region was home to speakers of Gothic languages living in the Principality of Theodoro.
  - A state named for this region targeted neighboring "wild fields" for slave raids and was granted independence from the Ottoman Empire in the Treaty of Kuchuk-Kainarji.
  - The Black Death began spreading to Europe from this region's Genoese colony of Caffa.
  - The Battle of Alma was part of an 11-month siege targeting a naval base in this region located at Sevastopol.
  - For 10 points, name this Black Sea peninsula where Britain, France, and Russia fought a 19th-century war. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Crimean War [or Kırım Savası; or Vostochnaya voyna]
  - In this conflict, the first-ever battle between two steamships occurred, resulting in the capture of the Egyptian ship Pervas-i Bahri.
  - During this conflict, a blockade of the port of Sinop led to a victory in a battle that demonstrated the effectiveness of explosive shells.
  - During this conflict, foggy conditions allowed for reinforcements that led to the Russian defeat at the Battle of Inkerman.
  - After the first bombardment of the Siege of Sevastopol during this conflict, Russian forces were repelled by the "thin red line" at the Battle of Balaclava.
  - For 10 points, name this conflict between the Russian Empire and a coalition of allies over a namesake peninsula on the Black Sea. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Crimean War (The officer in the first sentence was Leo Tolstoy, whose Sevastopol Sketches played a similar role to dispatches from the front.)
  - An officer in this war proposed a "military gazette" aimed at its largely illiterate rank-and-file soldiers, which was promptly quashed by his country's king.
  - A declaration that the losing side in this war "was not sulking but meditating" names a period known as recueillement, during which glasnost took on its current political meaning.
  - Lenin argued this war's loser faced a choice between the "American" and "Prussian" roads when ending an "ill" targeted by Alexander Gorchakov.
  - Nikolai Pirogov developed a system to triage casualties of this war, while another person developed a polar area diagram to track disease during it.
  - The failure of peasant armies in this war at battles like Inkerman prompted the creation of zemstvos following it.
  - Russia's Great Reforms occurred following, for 10 points, what 1850s war fought around the Black Sea? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Crimean War (The physician in the second line is Nikolai Pirogov.)
  - The diaries of John Hall reveal his disdain for a figure in this conflict, leading him to support the authority of a rival, Mary Francis Bridgeman. [PWR]
  - The "Exaltation of the Holy Cross Community" was founded during this conflict, where they served under a physician who developed a namesake foot amputation technique that preserves the heel.
  - Selina Bracebridge assisted a figure in this conflict who created a faulty diagram resembling a bat's wing. [PWR]
  - Isambard Kingdom Brunel designed a prefabricated wood building known as the (*) Renkioi Hospital during this conflict. [PWR]
  - A wedge chart depicting causes of death by month, known as the polar area diagram, was developed during this conflict.
  - The "British Hotel" was set up by the Jamaican-born nurse Mary Seacole during this conflict.
  - For 10 points, name this conflict during which British nursing was managed by Florence Nightingale. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Crimean War [or Kırım Savası; or Vostochnaya voyna] (The battle was the Battle of Balaclava.)
  - The firm Colnaghi and Co. commissioned watercolors of this conflict from the artist William Simpson.
  - A set of bells taken as spoils during this conflict from the Church of the Twelve Apostles were later installed in Windsor Castle's Round Tower.
  - A painting by Robert Gibb memorialized when soldiers in this conflict were told "there is no retreat from here, men.
  - You must die where you stand." A Roger Fenton photograph taken during this conflict depicts cannonballs lying scattered on a deserted road.
  - During a battle of this conflict, an enemy cavalry charge was repulsed by the "Thin Red Line." In that battle of this conflict, a misinterpreted order from Lord Raglan caused a disastrous British cavalry charge.
  - For 10 points, name this 1850s conflict that included the "Charge of the Light Brigade." [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Crimean War
  - After the protagonist of one novel is wounded in this war, he falls in love with Renee de Croisnel while staying in Venice. [PWR]
  - A radio program hosted by Butt and Taff relate how Buckley shot a general in this war in the novel Finnegan's Wake. [PWR]
  - (+) Three different stories set during this war are entitled "December", "May", and August", the second of which features Captain Mikhailov capturing a trench.
  - In addition to George Meredith's character Nevil Beauchamp (*) serving in this conflict, Kipling wrote that a group of soldiers in this conflict "talked of England's might" yet "were only shiftless soldiers".
  - That poem is a response to another poem set during this war about "the six hundred" that rode "into the valley of Death".
  - For 10 points, identify this conflict where the "Light Brigade" were defeated at the Battle of Balaclava, also the setting of Tolstoy's Sevastopol Sketches. [GIVE]

[T7] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Crimean War [or Easter War of 1853-1856]
  - During this conflict, the newspaper Atlas spread rumors about a new weapon called the Boulet Asphyxiant, raising fears that were dispelled by further rumors of MacIntosh's Portable Buoyant Wave Repressor.
  - Pioneering celebrity chef Alexis Soyer designed a "magic stove" for soldiers in this war, which was documented by journalist William Howard Russell and photographer Roger Fenton.
  - In this war, the 93rd Highlanders under Colin Campbell stood in a row two-deep to resist a cavalry charge, earning the nickname "Thin Red Line." Miscommunicated orders to Lord Cardigan from Lord Raglan led to a disastrous assault at this war's Battle of Balaclava.
  - For 10 points, name this 19th century war that featured the nursing efforts of Florence Nightingale and the Charge of the Light Brigade. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 Chicago Open History Doubles (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Crimean War
  - The Irish politician named John Ball openly declared that this war "was the maintenance in civilized society of the principles of right and justice" when asked about it in the House of Commons.
  - Preparations for this conflict were made by Sir James Graham and the Duke of Newcastle before it actually occurred.
  - Colin Campbell led his Highland Brigade during this conflict, which saw him cross the "thin red line." Giuseppe Garibaldi supplied his "Hunters in the Alps" force as part of this conflict, when the kingdom of Sardinia joined one side.
  - The final conflict of this war was fought by William Williams, who led a contingent of forces that fought Muravyov-Karsky at the town of Kars.
  - Earlier, Lord Raglan and Francois Canrobert fought Vladimir Kornilov during the Siege of Sevastopol.
  - For 10 points, name this war between Russian and an alliance of the French and British, a war named for an Ottoman peninsula. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 MRNA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the United Kingdom's attempts to maintain a balance of power against Russia in Europe during the 19th century, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: William Gladstone [or William Ewart Gladstone]):
    The Disraeli ministry's support for the Ottoman Empire was criticized by this politician's pamphlet about the "Bulgarian Horrors." This politician revisited the issue of British foreign policy in his Midlothian campaign.
  Part 2 (ans: Treaty of San Stefano [or the Preliminary Treaty of San Stefano; accept Ayastefanos Muahedesi or Ayastefanos Antlasması]):
    After staying out of the Russo-Turkish war, the UK still intervened by partially reversing this 1878 treaty, which ended the conflict and granted Bulgaria virtual independence as a principality.
  Part 3 (ans: Crimean War [or Vostochnaya voyna]):
    Britain fought against Russian expansionism directly during this war, in which the UK and France collaborated with the Ottoman Empire to attack Russian territory on the Black Sea.

[B2] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The governments of these two states were prescribed by the Organic Regulation, which was publicly burned during an 1848 revolution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Moldavia AND Wallachia [accept Tara Moldovei or Moldova or Bogdania in place of "Moldavia"; accept Valahia or Vlahia or Muntenia or Tara Romaneasca or Teara Rumaneasca in place of "Wallachia"]):
    Name these two Danubian principalities that were united after their ad-hoc divans("dih-VANS") elected Alexander Cuza as their Prince.
  Part 2 (ans: Crimean War [or Guerre de Crimee or Krymskaya voyna or Vostochnaya voyna or Eastern War or Kırım Savası]):
    Moldavia and Wallachia were united in the aftermath of this war that pitted the United Kingdom, France, and the Ottoman Empire against Russia.
  Part 3 (ans: Balta Liman [accept the Treaty of Balta Liman; accept the Convention of Balta Liman]):
    Shortly before the Crimean War, the Romanian principalities were under Ottoman suzerainty in accordance with an 1849 convention with this name. The UK gained complete access to Ottoman markets in an 1838 treaty with this name.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: At the start of the April Uprising, these military units slaughtered thousands of civilians hiding in the Sveta Nedelya ("SVET-uh nuh-DEL-yuh") Church during the Batak massacre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bashi-bazouks):
    Identify these irregular Ottoman troops whose Turkish name means "disorderly heads" in reference to their tendency to loot. Gladstone's Midlothian campaign denounced these units' involvement in the "Bulgarian horrors."
  Part 2 (ans: Crimean War [or War over Crimea; or Kirim Savasi; or Vostochnaya Voyna]):
    Edward Money wrote a memoir about fighting in this war with poorly trained bashi-bazouk regiments. This war began when Russian ships sailed from an eponymous Black Sea peninsula and fired on the Ottomans at Sinope ("sin-OH-pee").
  Part 3 (ans: Albanians [or Albanoi or Shqiptaret; accept Gheg Albanians or Tosk Albanians or Kosovar Albanians]):
    Many bashi-bazouks hailed from this ethnic group who pushed for autonomy with the League of Prizren. Stories of Skanderbeg's resistance against the Ottomans helped inspire this ethnic group's National Awakening.

[B4] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: William Simpson was nicknamed for this war because of the detailed sketches he made for the Illustrated London News. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crimean War [or guerre de Crimee, or Krymskaya Voina]):
    Name this war, during which Roger Fenton took the photograph The Valley of the Shadow of Death during the Siege of Sevastopol ("suh-VAST-uh-pole") by British and Turkish forces.
  Part 2 (ans: William Howard Russell):
    This journalist, regarded as one of the first modern war correspondents, coined the term "thin red line" in his description of the Siege of Sevastopol while working for The Times of London.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary Seacole):
    Russell wrote the preface to this woman's autobiography about her Wonderful Adventures in Many Lands. This British-Jamaican nurse set up the "British Hotel" during the Crimean War.

[B5] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Russian Far East military history in the 19th to early 20th centuries, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Crimean War [or Krymskaya Voyna or Guerre de Crimee]):
    During this war, the Russian ship Aurora was chased by enemy forces from Peru to Siberia. Russian forces successfully evacuated the besieged port of Petropavlovsk during this war by exploiting confusion regarding Sakhalin's status as an island rather than a peninsula.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Mukden [accept Mukdenskoye Srazheniye, Hoten Kaisen, or Fengtian Huizhan; do not accept or prompt on "Mukden Incident," which was a different event that occurred in the leadup to World War II]):
    Japan deployed its entire land army to win this largest land battle of the Russo-Japanese War. After Russia lost this battle near modern-day Shenyang, Alexei Kuropatkin resigned from his position as commander.
  Part 3 (ans: Alaska [accept Russian America or Russkaya Amerika; or Alyaska, Alaasikaq, or Alaas'kaq]):
    In this territory, Russian colonists fought against the Tlingit at the Battle of Sitka. This territory was later sold to the United States in 1867.

[B6] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This tsar supposedly often told his son Alexander "Sometimes I think there are only two people in the empire who don't steal. You and me!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nicholas I [or Nikolay I or Nicholas Pavlovich Romanov; prompt on Nicholas or Nikolay]):
    Name this tsar who was understandably paranoid throughout his reign as it began with the Decembrist Revolt, in which secret societies called for him to be replaced by his brother Constantine.
  Part 2 (ans: Crimean War [or Eastern War]):
    This war in the 1850s proved Nicholas I right, as Russian bureaucrats frequently stole money intended for ammunition, contributing to a loss at the Siege of Sevastopol.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Inkerman):
    In this foggy November 1854 battle, corruption issues were exacerbated by the fact that the Russian general, Prince Menshikov, was actually an admiral who had little experience on land. Lord Raglan's victory at this battle came to little, however, as Raglan died of dysentery ("DISS-in-TAIR-ee") months later.

[B7] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Among its many indignities and outrages, the Victorian Era saw the full beard come back into fashion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chartism [or Chartists]):
    In the early nineteenth century, beards were associated with radical associations like this political movement-even though leaders like William Lovett, Joseph Rayner Stephens, and John Frost were all clean-shaven.
  Part 2 (ans: the Crimean War):
    Beards became fashionable again in the aftermath of this conflict: freezing temperatures forced the British army to relax its restrictions on facial hair, and the triumphant return of the bearded soldiers set a new trend.
  Part 3 (ans: Our American Cousin):
    In 1861, a new word was coined for large side whiskers, "dundrearies"-from Lord Dundreary, a comic character from this Tom Taylor farce, the play Abraham Lincoln was watching when he was assassinated.

[B8] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about battles fought under the cover of fog, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Crimean War):
    This war's Battle of Inkerman was nicknamed "the Soldier's Battle" because fog prevented soldiers from fighting as units. That battle was part of a campaign leading up to the Siege of Sevastopol on this war's namesake peninsula.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Lutzen):
    Fog and gunsmoke separated Gustavus Adolphus from the rest of his cavalry at this 1632 battle in the Thirty Years' War, leading to his death.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Valmy):
    French artillery prevailed over their Prussian counterparts in a prolonged duel in the fog known as this battle's "cannonade." It ended a 1792 Prussian campaign on Paris that failed to suppress the French Revolution.

[B9] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Karl Marx described this war as a case of "the French doing nothing and the British helping them as fast as possible." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crimean War):
    Name this war in which France, Britain, Sardinia, and the Ottomans fought against Russia on a namesake peninsula. The Charge of the Light Brigade took place during this war.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Balaclava):
    The Charge of the Light Brigade took place during this particular battle, in which Colin Campbell ordered men to line up in two to create a "thin red line" to resist a Russian cavalry charge.
  Part 3 (ans: Lord Raglan):
    At Balaclava, this overall commander of British forces in the Crimea ordered Lord Lucan, the cavalry commander, to send Lord Cardigan's Light Brigade to attack the Russians. He died of dysentery during the war.

[B10] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: John Prettyjohns became the first Royal Marine to win the Victoria Cross at this battle, which became known as the "Soldier's Battle" since the thick fog cut off both sides into small battalions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Inkerman):
    Name this 1855 battle where the British held on to the "Sandbag Battery," and the Russians under Alexander Menshikov suffered a devastating defeat to go along with their mild loss at Balaclava just prior.
  Part 2 (ans: Crimean War [or Eastern War of 1853-56]):
    The Battle of Inkerman was the turning point of this war, fought for control of the naval base at Sevastopol in the title peninsula.
  Part 3 (ans: John Pennefather [or John Lysaght Pennefather]):
    This general's 3,000 troops held off 35,000 Russians at the Battle of Inkerman, a softball compared to his 500 troops doing the same under the command of Charles Napier at the Battle of Miani in India.

[B11] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: One country's failed attempt to act as a mediator in this was the Buol Note. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Crimean War):
    Name this war in which Austrian neutrality fulfilled an early promise to "shock the world by the depth of its ingratitude." It was ended during the Congress of Paris three years after a Catholic-Orthodox monk's quarrel in the Holy War ignited it.
  Part 2 (ans: Prince Felix of Schwarzenberg [or Felix, Prinz zu Schwarzenberg]):
    This was the statesman who said that Austria would be ungrateful to her Russian ally. He was known as the "Austrian Bismarck" and succeeded Metternich as Foreign Minister and Minister-President.
  Part 3 (ans: 1848 [prompt on "Spring of Nations", "Year of Revolution", "Springtime of the Peoples", etc.]):
    Schwarzenberg correctly predicted that Austria would be ungrateful to Russia for Tsar Nicholas I's aid in putting down Lajos Kossuth's Hungarian rebels in this year, which saw nationalist uprisings across Europe.

[B12] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: James Yorke Scarlett was heavily decorated for his efforts at this battle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Balaclava):
    Name this battle in which the Scottish 93rd Highland Regiment was called a "thin red line tipped with steel." An ill-fated attack based on Lord Raglan's misinterpreted order also occurred in this battle.
  Part 2 (ans: Crimean War):
    Balaclava was a battle in what war fought between Russia and a European alliance over Ottoman territory?
  Part 3 (ans: The Times):
    One of the first ever war correspondents, William Howard Russell, covered the Crimean War for this English newspaper, formerly The Daily Universal Register. It later employed double agent Kim Philby as a correspondent.
