=== STOCK CLUES: Lucio Costa ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 MALA (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about lesser-known architects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: FazlurSainzRahman Khan):
    This architect pioneered the bundle-tubed system while designing the Sears Tower, and he also used X-shaped bracing for the John Hancock Center. Both of these buildings are in Chicago.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucio Costa):
    This other architect designed a museum using materials from the ruins of the Church of Sao Miguel Arcanjo. He may be better known for co-designing a city whose center contains the Monumental Axis.
  Part 3 (ans: Shigeru Ban (accept either underlined portion)):
    This architect won the 2014 Pritzker Prize for his design of the Cardboard Cathedral in Christchurch. He has been praised for his creative use of materials to rebuild destroyed housing developments.

[B2] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several architects worked extensively in Brazil. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Corbusier (or Charles-Edouard Jeanneret)):
    Brazil's largest city, Sao Paulo, was planned by this Swiss-born architect whose other South American designs include the Curutchet House. He is better known for houses like the Villa Savoye and the book Toward an Architecture.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar Niemeyer):
    Sao Paulo's Edificio Copan residential complex was designed by this man, who incorporated several blue shells into his Church of Saint Francis of Assisi. His best-known city plan features buildings like the Palace of Dawn and a hyperboloid-shaped cathedral.
  Part 3 (ans: Lucio Costa):
    This other Brazilian architect designed Rio's Gustavo Capanema Palace with Niemeyer and Roberto Burle Marx. While Niemeyer designed Brasilia's civic buildings, this man developed a "pilot plan" to lay out the city.

[B3] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these people who were involved in the design of Brasilia:
  Part 1 (ans: Oscar Niemeyer):
    This man who submitted Plan 32 for the design of the U.N. Headquarters used sixteen hyperboloid columns that support a glass roof in his Cathedral for Brasilia, and he also designed the National Congress building there. One of his first projects was designing the suburb of Pampulha.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucio Costa):
    The layout of Brasilia in the shape of a cross or an airplane was thought of by this architect who used his design for the Parque Guinle for many of Brasilia's apartment towers.
  Part 3 (ans: Roberto Burle Marx):
    This designer of the Plaza of the Three Powers in Brasilia is best known for orchestrating the city's gardens and foliage patterns. He had worked as a landscape artist with Costa in his work on the Schwartz House.
