=== STOCK CLUES: Walker Evans ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 The Unanswered Question (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Walker Evans <WG>
  - This photographer hid a 35mm Contax camera under his coat in order to discreetly take his "subway portraits." In this artist's photograph Penny Picture Display, hundreds of tiny portraits are overlaid by the word "STUDIO." This photographer befriended Ernest Hemingway when taking photographs for Carleton Beals's book The Crime of Cuba. [PWR]
  - Photographs by this man were reproduced and credited to another artist in a series titled After [this man] by the appropriation artist Sherrie Levine. [PWR]
  - A picture by this photographer depicts a thin-lipped (*) woman named Allie Mae Burroughs. [PWR]
  - While on leave from the Farm Security Administration, this man was commissioned by Fortune magazine to photograph tenant farmers in Alabama during the Great Depression.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer who collaborated with writer James Agee on the book Let Us Now Praise Famous Men. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This word opens the titles of all four woodcuts in the series Meltdown, which reduce famous artworks into 4-by-3 pixel grids. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: after [accept After Walker Evans]):
    Name this word that appears first in the title of a 1981 "rephotography" series by a member of the Pictures Generation. That series titled for this word includes an image of the sharecropper's wife Allie Mae Burroughs.
  Part 2 (ans: Great Depression [accept Dust Bowl]):
    Sherrie Levine's series After Walker Evans rephotographs Evans's images from this period, during which Dorothea Lange shot Migrant Mother.
  Part 3 (ans: Fountain (by Marcel Duchamp)):
    Levine added the subtitle "Buddha" in a bronze feminist reproduction of this artwork, which may have been created by Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven. Alfred Stieglitz photographed this artwork for the journal The Blind Man.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about photography during the New Deal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Life):
    In 1936, Margaret Bourke-White took a photo of the Fort Peck Dam that served as the first cover for this magazine whose logo is a red box with white text inside. It was later bought by Time.
  Part 2 (ans: Let Us Now Praise Famous Men (by Walker Evans and James Agee)):
    Many Farm Security Administration-era photographs in this book document the lives of the pseudonymous Gudger, Woods, and Ricketts families. The lines "The house had now descended / All over Alabama the lamps are out" precedes this book's first section, titled "On the Porch."
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    This critic called the work of the FSA "propagandistic" in an essay included in her collection On Photography. A retrospective by Diane Arbus is heavily criticized by this author in another essay originally titled "Freak Show," often grouped with her "Notes on 'Camp'."

[B3] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Although he spent most of his career taking black-and-white photographs, Bruce Davidson switched to color for a 1980s series set in this type of place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: subways [accept Subway Art; accept metro, train, or subway stations; accept trains; accept New York City Subway]):
    Name these places whose art is the subject of a bestselling, oft-stolen photobook by Martha Cooper and Henry Chalfant. In 2021, Devon Rodriguez went viral on TikTok for his portraits of people in this type of place.
  Part 2 (ans: graffiti):
    Cooper and Chalfant's Subway Art has been dubbed the "Bible" of this street art form for the breadth of artists it covers like Kase 2 and Lady Pink. The NYPD arrested artists making this type of art for vandalism in the 1970s.
  Part 3 (ans: Walker Evans [accept After Walker Evans] (The subway series is Many are Called, and the other Evans work is Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.)):
    This non-Weegee photographer discreetly captured subway riders by using his coat to hide a camera whose shutter he triggered via a cable in his sleeve. Sherrie Levine "re-photographed" a series by this photographer that studies Alabama farmers.

[B4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Patrick Cariou sued another artist over a series of works with this quality which was exhibited at the Gagosian Gallery as Canal Zone. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rephotography [or appropriation art; accept descriptive answers mentioning that the photographs depict other photographs or depict other artists' work; accept answers indicating that the artworks are copies]):
    Identify this quality, which Spiritual America, a photograph of a young Brooke Shields in a bathtub, has. The first photograph to sell for over $1 million at auction, Untitled (Cowboy), also has this quality.
  Part 2 (ans: Jackson Pollock):
    Richard Prince created a series titled for Covering [this artist] based on photographs of him. This Abstract Expressionist known as "the Dripper" served as an inspiration for Prince.
  Part 3 (ans: Walker Evans):
    Appropriation artist Sherrie Levine is known for a series of rephotographs titled After [this artist]. This artist's many photographs of the Great Depression include those in the book Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.

[B5] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Photos taken in this place were collected in the book Many Are Called. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the New York City Subways [accept MTA or Metropolitan Transportation Authority; prompt on New York City or NYC; prompt on subways by asking, "in which city?"]):
    Name this place where a photographer took over 600 photos using a hidden 35mm Contax camera. It's not Manzanar, but an accordionist performs at the center of one of those photographs taken in this place.
  Part 2 (ans: Walker Evans):
    This photographer made the book Many Are Called from photos taken in the New York Subways. This photographer took many famous photographs in Hale County, Alabama on an assignment from Fortune magazine.
  Part 3 (ans: the 1930s):
    Walker Evans's Fortune magazine pictures in Hale County, Alabama were taken during this decade. Dorothea Lange photographed Migrant Mother during this decade.

[B6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Joel Meyerowitz was one of the earliest people to adopt this art form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: color photography [prompt on photography]):
    Name this specific type of art, often seen as crass and commercialized, whose opponents included Robert Frank. Most art critics point to William Eggleston's 1976 MoMA exhibition, including The Red Ceiling, as a turning point for acceptance of this art form as a fine art.
  Part 2 (ans: Yosemite National Park):
    One detractor of color photography was Ansel Adams, who said that color is "too distracting." Adams is best known for Moon and Half Dome, shot in this California national park in the Sierra Nevadas.
  Part 3 (ans: Walker Evans):
    Another color hater is this photographer, who declared, "Color photography is vulgar." This Great Depression era photographer captured the Burroughs family and collaborated with James Agee on Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.

[B7] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: According to a 1990 book, the use of this device as a model of visual perception was subverted when Goethe conducted an experiment by closing this device's aperture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: camera obscura [or camerae obscurae; do not accept or prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this apparatus that uses a pinhole to project an image onto the wall of a dark room. It's often been thought that painters like Vermeer used these devices to copy fine details.
  Part 2 (ans: Jonathan Crary):
    This art historian attacked the received idea that the camera obscura simply developed directly into the modern photographic camera in his landmark book Techniques of the Observer. This editor of Zone Books gave a history of the modern commodification of attention in Suspensions of Perception.
  Part 3 (ans: Walker Evans (The book is Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.)):
    W.J.T. Mitchell gave a detailed critique of Crary's Techniques of the Observer at the beginning of Picture Theory, which also discussed this man's photo of "Annie Mae Gudger," part of a series by this man that was printed separately from a "fully collaborative" text in the same volume.

[B8] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sherrie Levine held a solo show at the Metro Pictures Gallery featuring a set of photographs titled "after" this photographer, whose images she had rephotographed from a catalogue. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walker Evans [accept After Walker Evans]):
    Name this Depression-era photographer whose portrait of Allie Mae Burroughs was among the many appropriated by Levine. He collaborated with James Agee on Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Prince):
    This artist appropriated photographs used in Marlboro cigarette ads for his Cowboys series. His New Portraits series consists of enlarged Instagram photos, complete with "likes" and comments.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Duchamp [or Henri-Robert-Marcel Duchamp]):
    Contemporary appropriation art owes much to the influence of this early appropriator, whose L.H.O.O.Q (ell ahsh oh oh koo) added a moustache to a reproduction of the Mona Lisa. His readymades include Fountain.

[B9] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Name some details of Great Depression-era photographs, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: California):
    Dorothea Lange's photograph Migrant Mother was taken in this state, where its subject-like many "Okies"-immigrated to in hopes of finding jobs as agricultural laborers.
  Part 2 (ans: "World's Highest Standard of Living"):
    Black people driven from their homes by a flood in 1937 queue up in front of a billboard with this five-word boast on it. The billboard also shows a smiling white family in a car and the words "There's no way like the American Way."
  Part 3 (ans: Walker Evans):
    A portrait of Allie May Burroughs was taken in by this photographer, who documented rural Alabama through staying with the Burroughs, Fields, and Tingle families. He compiled his photos into the collection Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.

[B10] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: While a bit of a downer for everyone else, economic misery in 1930s America was a boom time for photographers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Migrant Mother):
    Name this most famous work by Dorothea Lange in which Florence Owens Thompson touches her chin while her two children lean on her shoulders.
  Part 2 (ans: Walker Evans):
    This photographer collaborated with James Agee [ay-jee] and provided the illustrations for the latter's chronicle of three sharecropper families, Let us Now Praise Famous Men.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Depression):
    Evans and Lange documented the hardships faced by many rural Americans during this economic slump caused by the Wall Street Crash of 1929.

[B11] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In "Photography and Sociology," Howard Becker remarks on this collection's ethnographic qualities and its tendency to label photos by location and organizational type. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: TheAmericans [by Robert Frank]):
    Name this photography book with an introduction by Jack Kerouac. Its cover shows passengers gazing out of a segregated trolley and also includes a blurred image of workers at the River Rouge Ford plant.
  Part 2 (ans: Walker Evans):
    The Americans photographer Robert Frank was a student of this photographer, who documented the Great Depression for the FSA. He collaborated with James Agee on Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rolling Stones [prompt on "the Stones"]):
    Images from The Americans appear on the cover of an album by this band, whose American tour in 1972 was depicted in Frank's film Cocksucker Blues. A 1970 Maysles brothers-Charlotte Zwerin documentary captures the murder of Meredith Hunter at a concert headlined by this band.

[B12] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about photography in the first half of the 20th century, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Migrant Mother ):
    Along with pictures at Japanese relocation camps, Dorothea Lange is also took this picture of Florence Owens Thompson during the Great Depression.
  Part 2 (ans: Walker Evans):
    This photographer took pictures for the Farm Security Administration, documenting the Great Depression in Southern states, particularly Alabama. He collaborated with James Agee on Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred Eisenstaedt):
    This photojournalist took pictures of the Clinton family at Martha's Vineyard, and also took a 1945 photograph of two people kissing passionately in celebration of V-J Day in Times Square.

[B13] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer depicted a man reading the newspaper headline "PAL TELLS HOW GUNGIRL KILLED" in Subway Passengers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walker Evans):
    Identify this photographer who captured Allie Mae Burroughs against the wall of her family's cabin in one of his Hale County photos.
  Part 2 (ans: James Agee):
    Evans' 1966 photography collection, Many Are Called, contained an introduction by this author, whom Evans also collaborated with on Let Us Now Praise Famous Men. He wrote A Death in the Family.
  Part 3 (ans: Saul Bass):
    Lincoln Kirstein was particularly impressed by a Walker Evans portrait of a torn movie poster. This man designed iconic film posters such as the ones for The Shining and The Man With the Golden Arm.

[B14] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This man took many of his most iconic photos on Clarence King's 40th Parallel Survey, and allegedly developed photos inside of his mule-drawn "what is it wagon". FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Timothy H. O'Sullivan):
    Identify this American Civil War photographer who took the picture "The Harvest of Death" at Gettysburg and one of the first interior shots of a mine, "Cave-in, Gould & Curry Mine, Virginia City, Nevada".
  Part 2 (ans: Mathew B. Brady):
    O'Sullivan was once employed by this way more famous photographer, who snapped Lincoln on the day of the Cooper Union speech. This man was almost captured taking photos at First Bull Run.
  Part 3 (ans: Walker Evans):
    A giant cross dominates the left of Graveyard, Houses and Steel Mill, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania by this later American photographer. Allie Mae Burroughs stands in front of a house in a photo he took for the Farm Security Administration.
