=== STOCK CLUES: Cervantes ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 59 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 20 found, 60 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra] (The first and third lines refer to "The Lawyer of Glass.")
  - A character created by this author calls a hornet a "slanderer" and escapes his celebrity status by moving to Flanders and dying as a soldier. [PWR]
  - The housewife Camilla is compared to a diamond and the white coat of an ermine in a story by this author about two friends from Florence. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, a student at Salamanca who eats a spiked quince believes that he is made of (*) glass. [PWR]
  - This author's story about "the recklessly curious" Anselmo and Lothario is interrupted by a man "beheading" a giant as he sleepwalks on the second floor of an inn.
  - This author's first Exemplary Novel is saved when a priest leads the destruction of a private library owned by a 50-year-old hidalgo.
  - This author's most famous character goes mad reading books of chivalry and rides Rocinante alongside Sancho Panza.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Don Quixote. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Tlaxcala ("tlosh-KAH-lah") [or Tlaxcallan; or Confederacy of Tlaxcala or Tlahtoloyan Tlaxcallan; accept Tlaxcaltecs or Tlaxcaltecatl or Tlaxcalteca; accept Free and Sovereign State of Tlaxcala or Estado Libre y Soberano de Tlaxcala; accept Tlaxcalan Actas, History of Tlaxcala, Historia de Tlaxcala, or Lienzo de Tlaxcala; prompt on New Spain, Nueva Espana, Viceroyalty of New Spain, or Virreinato de Nueva Espana] (Francisco Cervantes de Salazar wrote the Cronica de Nueva Espana.)
  - Descendants of this historical state illustrated its past with a paneled lienzo canvas and staged Corpus Christi pageants described by Motolinia .
  - The Dawn of Everything argues that a deliberative democratic council led this state, citing a chronicle rediscovered by Zelia Nuttall.
  - Within a viceroyalty, this state's honorary hidalgo  governors ran an autonomous cabildo whose Actas record them founding Chichimeca colonies.
  - This city-state is named for tortillas.
  - Leaders of this confederacy detained Totonac  emissaries and led Otomi  warriors in ambush before burning Cholula.
  - Its four sub-altepetls included Tizatlan, whose tlatoani  Xicohtencatl  betrothed his daughter to Pedro de Alvarado to cement an alliance with Hernan Cortes.
  - For 10 points, Aztec Flower Wars targeted what nearby Nahua confederacy that names a small state northwest of Puebla? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
  - A character created by this author is addressed as one "for whom tales called classical, glorious, / Could hardly be told." This author is described as a gentle "Christian knight, / Ever undaunted" who "speaks as runs a brook, so amorous" in one poem. [PWR]
  - The speaker pleads to be delivered from "the epidemics of horrible blasphemies / Of the academics" by a character created by this author. [PWR]
  - That character created by this author is described in that poem as "King of all cavaliers, lord of the sorrowing." The end of a poem about this author exclaims about "laughter from a madness so divine!" after describing "how the world, by fate's design, / Reaps, from his deathless sorrow, Rich delight." The line (*) "In all my days of troubled loneliness" opens "A Sonnet on [this author]," in which he is described as "A faithful friend" that "brings me precocious gifts of quietness." In one poem, a character created by this author of the long satirical poem Journey to Parnassus is asked to "Pray for us" who are "Without foot or wing, without Sancho or God." For 10 points, name this Spanish author who inspired Ruben Dario's "Litany for Our Lord Don Quixote." [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra] (The first line refers to the Aragonese dialect, in which Avellaneda's unauthorized continuation of Don Quixote was written.)
  - One of this author's characters, who "censures" a novel for being written in a dialect "without article," is said to be left in the "X condition" after heavy drinking.
  - This author claims that a rival's books, "being bad, are harder than stones," after giving a parable about a man who is beaten for dropping a rock on a prized "lurcher." In a novel by this author, a rival's book is called "so bad" that it would be impossible to do worse on purpose by devils using it as a (*) tennis ball at the gates of hell.
  - In a preface, this author asks whether "it is an easy thing to write a book" after telling a story about a madman who uses a pointed reed to inflate a dog.
  - An affidavit stating that another author's characters are impostors is signed by Alvaro Tarfe in a novel by this author that ends with an attack on a "pretended Tordesillesque  writer." For 10 points, name this author who savaged Alonso Fernandez de Avellaneda  for writing an unauthorized sequel. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
  - This author wrote a story in which two young men overhear mule drivers describe a woman as "savage as a kestrel" but beautiful, leading them to seek out that "Illustrious Scullery Maid." A character describes his time at Nicholas Snub-Noses's slaughterhouse in a story by this author that contains several nested stories told by the witch Canizares. [PWR]
  - Cipion and Berganza's meeting by a (*) hospital window is overheard by a syphilitic man in that story by this author.
  - This author's story about a lawyer who believes he is made of glass is collected with "The Dialogue of the Dogs" in a 1612 series of novellas.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Exemplary Novels who wrote about an "ingenious gentleman" who becomes a knight errant in his novel Don Quixote. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Scattergories (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Alonso Fernandez de Avellaneda's spurious sequel to Don Quixote [or Second Volume of the Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha; or the false Quixote; accept anything indicating that it's an unauthorized sequel to Don Quixote; DO NOT accept or prompt on "Don Quixote, Part Two" or other answers implying it's Cervantes's own sequel, but you can accept just "the sequel to Don Quixote" after the word "unauthorized" is read; accept Alonso Fernandez de Avellaneda's sequel to Don Quixote before "Alonso"]
  - The introduction to a different book tells the reader that, if they run into the author of this book, they should tell him an anecdote about a man who goes around dropping slabs on dogs in the street. [PWR]
  - When the protagonist of that book meets a character from this book named Alvaro Tarfe, he makes Tarfe sign an affidavit that they have never met before. [PWR]
  - According to one theory, this book was written by Geronimo de (*) Passamonte, who inspired the character of Gines de Pasamonte in a related book. [PWR]
  - This book, which may have been written by a group of Lope de Vega's friends, was published under the pseudonym Alonso Fernandez de Avellaneda.
  - For 10 points, name this book published in 1614 as an unauthorized follow-up to a classic novel by Miguel de Cervantes. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra]
  - Irving Leonard's study Books of the Brave follows a shipment of first editions of this author's work as it crossed the Atlantic and shaped a colonial literary culture.
  - The preface to Alejo Carpentier's The Kingdom of this World cites, as an example of the "marvelous real," Rutilio's description of men who turn into wolves from a posthumously-published work by this author.
  - In a 20th century story, a passage by this earlier author that begins "truth, whose mother is history, rival of time, depository of deeds" is dismissed as being "mere rhetorical praise," before the story then exactly repeats the passage and praises it.
  - Miguel de Unamuno rebuked this author for mistreating the protagonist of his best-known novel, in an essay that imagines a gravestone with a glowing epitaph for that protagonist being erected by Samson Carrasco.
  - An annual prize for Spanish-language literature is named after, for 10 points, what author, whose masterpiece is re-created by the title character of Borges's story "Pierre Menard, Author of the Quixote?" [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
  - This author's first major work imitated Jorge de Montemayor's prose romance Diana.
  - In one of this writer's short stories, two vagrant boys enter into a confraternity of thieves led by Senor Monopodio in Seville.
  - In another of this author's short stories, Tomas Rodaja is convinced that his whole body is made of glass after eating a quince which had been laced with a love potion.
  - Sigmund Freud is known to have signed 55 letters with the name of Cipion, after a dog who discusses with Berganza their experiences with their human masters in this writer's El coloquio de los perros.
  - This author of The Travels of Persiles and Sigismunda ridiculed contemporary poets in Viaje del Parnaso and included Rinconete y Cortadillo among his Exemplary Novels.
  - His first novel, La Galatea, is spared during the book burning scene in another of his novels.
  - For 10 points, name this Spanish writer, who chronicled the adventures of the titular hidalgo in Don Quixote. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
  - In a story by this author, a rape victim uses a silver crucifix to prove her identity after her child is injured while watching a horse race. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author of "The Power of Blood," a hunchbacked servant mistakenly crawls into bed with the protagonist at an inn where his friend is thrown around in a blanket after they refuse to pay.
  - Berganza may be the transformed son of a witch in a story by this author, in which a syphilitic man (*) overhears a conversation between two dogs. [PWR]
  - A journey to the wedding of Daranio and Silveria is the subject of his pastoral book La Galatea.
  - In a novel by this author, Samson Carrasco disguises himself as the Knight of the White Moon to fight the title character, who loves Dulcinea.
  - For 10 points, name this Spanish author of Exemplary Novels who created the windmill-tilting Don Quixote. [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Kingdom of Spain [the first novel is Miguel de Unamuno's Mist; the other works are some of Cervantes' Novelas ejemplares]
  - A novel from this country includes a "post-prologue" by the author that disagrees with the prologue written by the character Victor Goti; that novel from this country ends with a funeral oration by the dog Orfeo.
  - In another work from this country, the protagonist of "The Deceitful Wedding" overhears the title "Colloquy of the (*) Dogs." The title character of a novel from this country thinks his brain is melting after putting a barber's basin full of curds on his head, thinking it was the helmet of Mambrino. [PWR]
  - Near the beginning of that novel from this country, a priest and a barber burn the title character's books, after which he attacks some windmills.
  - For 10 points, name this country home to Miguel de Cervantes, who wrote Don Quixote. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra
  - This author wrote a farce in which a divorce court judge listens to four oral arguments, then declares that he won't let anybody divorce in his courtroom. [PWR]
  - Philip Massinger's The Renegado is based on a play by this author titled for the baths of a city where this author lived. [PWR]
  - The sorcerer Marquino wets his lance with a drop of water, then strikes a coffin, resurrecting a corpse, in a play by this author. [PWR]
  - Later in that drama, a young lad jumps off a tower in the midst of metaphorical ravaging by the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse. [PWR]
  - Aurelio (*) and Silvia love each other in captivity in a play by this author titled for a treaty.
  - The first act of one of his tragedies ends with a discussion between Spain and the river Duero after a heroic speech given by Scipio Africanus in preparation for a bloody incident of the Celtiberian Wars.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the The Voyage of Parnassus and The Siege of Numantia, who set many of his plays in Algiers, where he was imprisoned before he wrote Don Quixote. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character who claims to be this author's friend says that his book La Galatea has a pretty good plot that goes nowhere and hopes the promised second part will fix this problem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra]):
    Name this author, who placed his own novel in a book collection that a curate and a barber rummage through after a precious gentleman returns from his first sally.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote [or Alonso Quixano; accept The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha or El ingenioso hidalgo don Quijote de la Mancha]):
    A copy of Cervantes' La Galatea is found in the book collection of this character, the protagonist of a comic novel also written by Cervantes.
  Part 3 (ans: islands [or isla]):
    Before his first sally, Don Quixote imagines slaying the giant Caraculiambro, who hails from one of these places named Malindrania. Sancho Panza becomes Quixote's squire in hopes of winning one of these places.

[B2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Historians dispute if an episode where this writer got into an argument with the commander of the Spanish Legion and left with Franco's wife after getting heckled actually happened. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Name this liberal author of the novels Niebla ("NYEB-la") and San Manuel Bueno, martir (san man-WELL BWEH-noh MARR-teer") who was placed in house arrest by Franco at the end of his life despite earlier supporting his rebellion.
  Part 2 (ans: The Island [or Primera memoria]):
    This novel by Ana Maria Matute ("ma-TOO-teh") describes Matia living with his abuelita ("ab-well-EE-ta") in Mallorca (ma-YORK-uh") during the Spanish Civil War. Matute won the Premio Nadal for this first novel of the Los Mercaderes trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra [accept Miguel de Cervantes Prize]):
    Matute was the third woman to win the Spanish language literary prize named after this author of Don Quixote ("don kee-HOE-tay").

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: No one expects their novel to be censored by the Spanish Inquisition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra]):
    This Spanish author, who was excommunicated multiple times, wrote a novel about an "ingenious" hidalgo from La Mancha who attacks windmills, which was censored by the Inquisition.
  Part 2 (ans: Lazarillo de Tormes [or Lazarillo of Tormes; or The Life of Lazarillo of Tormes and of His Fortunes and Adversities; or La vida de Lazarillo de Tormes y de sus fortunas y adversidades]):
    The Inquisition censored parts of this picaresque novel about a poor Spanish boy, perhaps because its protagonist's masters include a stingy priest, a possibly abusive friar, and a corrupt seller of indulgences.
  Part 3 (ans:  La Celestina [or The Celestina; or The Spanish Bawd; or The Tragicomedy of Calisto and Melibea; or La Tragicomedia de Calisto y Melibea]):
    The Inquisition also censored this 1499 tragicomedy in which an old woman, whose name came to mean "bawd" or "matchmaker," helps a bachelor have an illicit affair until he falls off a ladder and dies.

[B4] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Princess Alexandria of Bavaria had a variation of this condition which involved believing that she had swallowed a piano. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: glass delusion [accept anything indicating that someone thinks their body is made of glass; prompt on someone thinking that they are fragile or breakable or transparent or see-through or the like]):
    Name this delusion, which caused King Charles VI to wear armor and cover himself in blankets. A French doctor claims that he cured one man of this delusion by beating him up.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    After drinking a failed love potion, the lawyer Tomas both acquires the glass delusion and becomes more witty in Exemplary Novels, written by this author of Don Quixote.
  Part 3 (ans: melancholy [accept Anatomy of Melancholy; accept The Anatomy of Melancholy, What it is: With all the Kinds, Causes, Symptomes, Prognostickes, and Several Cures of it. In Three Maine Partitions with their several Sections, Members, and Subsections. Philosophically, Medicinally, Historically, Opened and Cut Up]):
    A Robert Burton Anatomy of this concept discusses the glass delusion among people's beliefs that their heads will fall off their shoulders or they have frogs in their stomachs.

[B5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Sigmund Freud signed off several letters about psychoanalysis using the name of a character from this story, who hears tales of working in a slaughterhouse for Nicholas Snub-Nose. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Conversation of the Dogs" [or "The Dialogue of the Dogs"; or "Dialogue between Cipion and Berganza"; or "El coloquio de los perros"]):
    Name this story. The title event of this story is probably imagined by a delirious man in Valladolid who appears in the preceding story in a collection, "The Deceitful Marriage," as he watches some animals outside his hospital window.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    This Spanish author of "The Conversation of the Dogs" included comical animals like the horse Rocinante (ross-ee-NAN-tay) in Don Quixote (kee-HOH-tay).
  Part 3 (ans: Exemplary Novels [or Novelas ejemplares]):
    "The Conversation of the Dogs" appears in this collection by Cervantes. Tomas Rodaja (roh-DAH-hah) believes he is going to shatter in this collection's story "The Lawyer of Glass."

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Lope de Vega is rained out of a cloud onto a boat filled with poets in this author's satire Journey to Parnassus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra]):
    Name this Spanish author who parodied his contemporary Lope de Vega as the puppeteer Gines de Pasamonte in part two of his novel Don Quixote.
  Part 2 (ans: Luis de Gongora [or Luis de Gongora y Argote] (The poems were by his rival Francisco de Quevedo.)):
    Cervantes claims that he had disgraced this poet by "such brief praise" in Journey to Parnassus, and does not include him in the poets whom Venus turns into pumpkins. This man was mocked in the poems "To a Nose" and "Compass for Navigating among Cultos."
  Part 3 (ans: Seville [or Sevilla; accept The Barber of Seville or the Useless Precaution; or Le Barbier de Seville ou la Precaution inutile; accept The Trickster of Seville and the Stone Guest or El burlador de Sevilla y convidado de piedra]):
    Journey to Parnassus also mocks Tirso de Molina, who wrote a play about Don Juan titled in part for a "trickster" from this city. A Pierre Beaumarchais play set in this city features the doctor Don Bartholo.

[B7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The very short fourth chapter of the novel in which this character appears may imply that he is sexually assaulted by a friar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lazarillo de Tormes [accept either name]):
    Name this character who serves a series of masters, including a blind beggar, in an anonymously-published 16th-century Spanish novel that pioneered the picaresque genre.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra]):
    The picaresque genre inspired this Spanish author's story The Conversation of the Dogs, as well as the many misadventures undergone by his character Don Quixote.
  Part 3 (ans: lawyers [accept equivalents such as attorneys or advocates; accept "The Lawyer of Glass" or "El licenciado Vidriera"]):
    An earlier anonymous work of Spanish literature, The Poem of the Cid, has been theorized by scholars such as Colin Smith to have been written by an author skilled in this profession. A member of this profession is put in a coma and driven insane by a faulty love potion in a Cervantes story.

[B8] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The literary movement Generation of '27, which included Federico Garcia Lorca, formed to celebrate the 300th anniversary of the funeral of this author. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Luis de Gongora):
    Name this Spanish poet, whose works include Soledades. He pioneered the ornate, ornamental literary style of culteranismo against the conceptismo developed by his long-time rival, Francisco de Quevedo.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    de Gongora is declared to be a 'good poet' in the ranking of contemporary poets given in the work Journey to Parnassus, written by this author of some Exemplary Novels and Don Quixote.
  Part 3 (ans: La Galatea [accept La Fabula de Polifemo y Galatea]):
    Another of de Gongora's major works is a classically-inspired 'fable' titled for two mythological characters. This is the female character mentioned in that title, whose name was also used for the title of Cervantes' first novel, a pastoral work which is memorably saved during the burning of Don Quixote's library.

[B9] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author coined a nonsense label to differentiate his novels from the realist literature being produced by his country at the time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Name this author who first used that term to describe a novel in which he inserted himself into a conversation with the suicidal Augusto Perez, whose eventual death is eulogized by his dog Orfeo.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote de la Mancha [or Alonso Quijano]):
    In Unamuno's Mist, Augusto claims this character overshadowed the author that created him. The author included his novel La Galatea among the books in this character's library, which is burned by a priest and barber.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    Unamuno's Mist, Three Exemplary Novels, and essay "Our Lord Don Quixote" are among his many works responding to this Spanish author who created Don Quixote.

[B10] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these characters tells the other about escaping from an ill-tempered slaughterhouse worker named Nicholas Snub-Nose. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dogs [their names are Cipion AND Berganza or Scipio AND Berganza]):
    Name or describe these two characters, who are secretly recorded by the eavesdropping Campuzano. One of them is told by the witch Canizares that he is the son of the witch Montiela.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes (Saavedra)):
    Those dogs, Cipion and Berganza, appear in "The Colloquy of the Dogs," one of the Exemplary Novels by this Spanish author. He also created characters like Dulcinea.
  Part 3 (ans: hospitals [or the Hospital of the Resurrection in Valladolid]):
    In "The Colloquy of the Dogs," Campuzano explains that he recorded the dogs' conversation while staying in one of these places in Valladolid. Campuzano tells his friend Peralta how he entered this place after being betrayed by his wife in another of Cervantes's Exemplary Novels, "The Deceitful Marriage."

[B11] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Catalan literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Frankfurt Book Fair [or Frankfurter Buchmesse]):
    The 2007 edition of this book fair, the world's largest, was focused on Catalan literature, and garnered criticism for not highlighting Catalonian literature written in Spanish.
  Part 2 (ans: decadence [or decadent movement; or La Decadencia]):
    This term is used to describe the period from the 15th to the 18th century in Catalan literature. A late 19th-century literary movement of this name emphasized material excess and aestheticism.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra]):
    This author considered Tirant lo Blanch ("tee-RAHN lo BLAHNK"), a chivalric romance written in the Valencian dialect of Catalan, to be much better than most examples of its genre. He satirized chivalric romances in general in his novel Don Quixote.

[B12] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author names an annual prize for Spanish-language writing, which was given to Eduardo Mendoza in 2016. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    Name this novelist, who wrote about a journey to the wedding of Daranio and Silveria in La Galatea. He also wrote a collection of Exemplary Novels, and his best known work contains the tale of "The Impertinent Curious Man."
  Part 2 (ans: Camilo Jose Cela y Trulock):
    This author accepted the Cervantes prize after previously declaring it to be "covered with shit." This author of The Family of Pascual Duarte used Dona Rosa's cafe La Delicia as a stepping stone to explore the lives of over 200 different characters in his novel The Hive.
  Part 3 (ans: Federico Garcia Lorca):
    Cela expressed discomfort with the participation of gay advocacy groups at a memorial of this Spanish author, noting "I have nothing against gays, I just don't take it up the ass." This author, who was murdered by a Francoist death squad in 1936, wrote Blood Wedding.

[B13] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: When this collection is first examined, two men debate the merits of various works of Amadis of Gaul and his family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Don Quixote's library [or books of Don Quixote; accept Alonso or Quixano in place of "Quixote"]):
    Name this collection that includes such texts as Felixmarte de Hyrcania and the Fortune of Love. In a meta-reference, this collection also includes Galatea, which is judged to have "some good invention."
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    Both Galatea and Don Quixote were written by this Spanish author.
  Part 3 (ans: barber):
    The offending books in Quixote's library are burned by a group consisting of his niece, his housekeeper, a parish curate, and a man who holds this occupation in town.

[B14] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's suitors include Bergetta and Grimaldi, and writes a letter in her blood warning her lover of impending danger. For ten points,
  Part 1 (ans: Annabella):
    This character marries Soranzo on advice from Friar Bonaventura, yet still continues her incestuous relationship with her brother Giovanni, encouraged by a woman who later has her eyes gouged out.
  Part 2 (ans: John Ford):
    This Jacobean dramatist wrote plays such as The Broken Heart and Perkin Warbeck as well as creating Annabella in 'Tis Pity She's a Whore.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes):
    The slightly more comic Ford play The Spanish Gypsy, likely a collaboration with several other dramatists, was based on the Novelas Ejemplares by this author of Don Quixote.

[B15] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A seventy-year-old man marries a fifteen-year-old girl and dies of jealousy in "The Jealous Extremaduran", a story from this collection. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Exemplary Novels [or Novelas Ejemplares]):
    Name this collection of twelve pieces of fiction. It includes "The Deceitful Marriage", in which Campuzano is robbed by his wife Dona Estefania and ends up in the hospital, where he overhears a conversation between two dogs.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes):
    The Exemplary Novels were written by this novelist, who also created a man who is defeated by the Knight of the White Moon.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Quixote [or The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha; or El ingenioso hidalgo don Quijote de la Mancha]):
    Cervantes is best known for this novel in which the title delusional knight befriends Sancho Panza and rides the horse Rocinante.

[B16] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet reinterpreted classical myths in The Fable of Polyphemus and Galatea and The Fable of Pyramus and Thisbe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Luis de Gongora y Argote):
    Name this Spanish baroque poet of Soledades. He is known for his bitter rivalry with compatriot Francisco de Quevedo, who caricatured this man's nose as an "upturned elephant" and an "Egyptian pyramid."
  Part 2 (ans: conceptismo):
    Gongora's infamously convoluted style, known as culteranismo, contrasted with this style employed by Quevedo. It is characterized by concision, simple vocabulary, and witty wordplay.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes (Saavedra)):
    Gongora comes in for much praise in Viaje del Parnaso, a poem about poetry by this other Spanish author, who wrote about a literature-crazed knight in Don Quixote.

[B17] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a much-debated passage in this scene, a priest calls the Catalan romance Tirant lo Blanch "the best book in the world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the burning of Don Quixote'sbooks [or: anything indicating Quixote's books are getting destroyed]):
    Name this event in which a group of people including a housekeeper and a barber try to destroy the source of a character's obsession with chivalry while he is asleep.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    Naturally, one of the books which is spared is La Galatea, a pastoral novel by this author, who coincidentally also wrote Don Quixote.
  Part 3 (ans: The Seven Books of the Diana [or:Los siete libros de la Diana]):
    Quixote's library also includes this pastoral romance by Jorge de Montemayor and its continuation by Gil Polo. It is the main source for the plot of The Two Gentlemen of Verona.

[B18] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This work's title character is first spotted sleeping under a tree by a pair of students. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Lawyer of Glass" [accept "El licenciado Vidriera" or "Doctor Glass-Case" or "Master Glass" or "The Glass Graduate" or other reasonable translations]):
    Name this story about Tomas Rodaja, whose consumption of a wonky love potion causes him to believe that he's made of the title substance.
  Part 2 (ans: Exemplary Novels [accept "Novelas exemplares"]):
    "The Lawyer of Glass" is one of the twelve stories in this Spanish series, which also includes "The Conversation of the Dogs" and "The Deceitful Wedding." It was first printed in Madrid in the year 1613.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    The Exemplary Novels were published by this author shortly before he completed his magnum opus, Don Quixote.

[B19] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman of this name watches her lover get crushed by a boulder in a poem by Spanish Golden Age poet Luis de Gongora. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Galatea):
    Give this name also held by another literary woman, Aurelio's shepherdess daughter, who titles a mock-pastoral novel set near the Tagus river.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    This author, who included a conversation between two dogs in his twelve Exemplary Novels, wrote of Elicio and Erastro, two friends who both love that same shepherdess, in his La Galatea.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Quixote de La Mancha [or Alonso Quijano the Good; prompt on "Knight of the Sorrowful Face"]):
    Cervantes also created this delusional knight-errant, who seeks to disenchant his imagined lady Dulcinea so as to restore her beauty.

[B20] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about early Iberian literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Life of Lazarillo de Tormes and of His Fortunes and Adversities [or La vida de Lazarillo de Tormes y de sus fortunas y adversidades]):
    This 16th-century Spanish work, a hallmark of picaresque literature, follows the titular scamp in his service to various corrupt church officials.
  Part 2 (ans: Amadis of Gaul [or Amadis de Gaula]):
    The Battle of Aljubarrota seems to have inspired part of this work, which collects tale on the titular son of King Perion who fathers Esplandian after a night of illicit boning with Princess Oriana. Esplandian later tricks him down and murders him for defiling his mother, because Spain is crazy.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes):
    Both Lazarillo and Amadis heavily influenced this veteran of the Battle of Lepanto, who referenced both works in his masterpiece Don Quixote.
