=== STOCK CLUES: Frida Kahlo ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 56 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 18 found, 54 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frida Kahlo [or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon]
  - A table in a still life by this artist holds a blonde doll in a wedding dress, a small owl, and a split-open papaya.
  - A flag is planted inside an apple in a painting by this artist in which water drips from a pair of eye-like holes in fruit.
  - The last painting by this artist of The Bride Frightened at Seeing Life Opened and Weeping Coconuts has a watermelon inscribed with the phrase "Viva la Vida." In a portrait by this artist, Fulang-Chang is behind the shoulder of the subject, who stands against a backdrop of green leaves and bleeds from her neck due to her jewelry.
  - Late in life, this artist painted still lives and self-portraits featuring the parrots she kept at her Blue House in Coyoacan .
  - For 10 points, what artist of Self-Portrait With Thorn Necklace and Hummingbird married Diego Rivera? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Diego Rivera AND Frida Kahlo
  - Note to Players: Two Answers Required One of these two artists appears naked clutching an orange flower in a painting by the other whose background is a black-and-white universal goddess. [PWR]
  - In another painting, a pink ribbon mentioning Albert Bender in San Francisco appears over one of these artists in a red shawl standing next to the other. [PWR]
  - One of these artists appears on the forehead of the other in a self-portrait with a white lace headdress of Tehuanapec. [PWR]
  - One of these artists holds a yin-yang and appears next to (*) La Calavera in the other's painting A Sunday Afternoon in Alameda Central Park. [PWR]
  - After one of these artists slept with the other's sister Cristina because she could not conceive a child after a bus accident, the other slept with Leon Trotsky during his stay at the Blue House.
  - For 10 points, name these married artists, a Mexican muralist and his unibrowed wife. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frida Kahlo [accept either underlined portion; or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon; accept Las Dos Fridas or The Two Fridas] (The painting in the first sentence is Marxism Will Give Health to the Sick.)
  - This person is enveloped by two large hands, one of which has an eye in its palm, in a painting that also depicts a dove spreading its wings over the Earth and Moon. [PWR]
  - In a painting divided into day and night sides, this person holds a flag displaying the painting's title, which means "tree of hope, remain strong." A painting given along with a mirror to Mary Sklar depicts this person and Fulang-Chang. [PWR]
  - A painting that has been lost since 1955 depicts this person sitting between a tiny-headed, dynamite-studded giant, a papier-mache (*) skeleton, and a brown Nayarit figure at the title Wounded Table. [PWR]
  - A painting in which blood drips from scissors onto a white dress shows a vein connecting the exposed hearts of two depictions of, for 10 points, what painter, whose other self-portraits often feature monkeys and her unibrow? [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frida Kahlo [or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon] (The second clue is from What the Water Gave Me.)
  - A 1938 exhibition of this artist's works in New York City arranged by Andre Breton led him to describe them as "a ribbon around a bomb." A painting by this artist features a tree that is dwarfed by the dead bird resting on it.
  - Isamu Noguchi removed the dedication on a painting by this artist commissioned by Clare Boothe Luce that depicts an American socialite in a pool of blood at the foot of a clouded skyscraper.
  - The lifelong pain that this artist experienced due to a traffic accident at age 18 is represented by nails impaling her in The Broken Column and by a severed vein spilling blood onto her white dress in a double self-portrait.
  - The Suicide of Dorothy Hale is a work of, for 10 points, what Mexican surrealist whose many other self-portraits depict her prominent unibrow? [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frida Kahlo [or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon] Note to players: Two answers required.
  - This person called herself "the Ancient Concealer" in her diary, which was written in a journal that is commonly but dubiously believed to have once belonged to John Keats.
  - The last image in this person's diary is of an angel, which Hayden Herrera interprets as the Angel of Death.
  - This woman's diary is the source of her quote "Feet, what do I need you for, if I have wings to fly?" A page in this person's diary includes the phrase "tree of (*) hope, stand fast," which this artist also used as the title of a painting.
  - This woman included wildly surrealistic watercolor illustrations in the diary she kept during the last ten years of her life, which was published decades later with an introduction by Carlos Fuentes.
  - For 10 points, name this painter whose diary, written in La Casa Azul [lah KAH-sah ah-SOOL], frequently refers to her love for her husband, Diego Rivera. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: giving birth [or obvious equivalents of having a baby or child or becoming a mother; accept Post-Partum Document; accept answers involving specific artists, such as Frida Kahlo giving birth; prompt on equivalents of pregnancy]
  - A figure with a half-black, half-white face performs this action in a Monica Sjoo painting titled for God doing this action. [PWR]
  - An artwork named for occurring after this event consists of artifacts such as scrawled drawings on rice paper and typewritten diary entries, and attracted tabloid outrage for including soiled underwear; that "document" was by Mary Kelly. [PWR]
  - Before working on the Holocaust Project, Judy Chicago coordinated over 100 needleworkers to create images about this event in a project named for it. [PWR]
  - An event that prevented the artist from doing this action inspired a painting in which a purple orchid, a snail, and a plaster model are among six objects connected by red cords to a figure on a (*) bed. [PWR]
  - Skeletons in academic robes assist a supine skeleton performing this action in part of Orozco's Epic of American Civilization murals.
  - For 10 points, the painting Henry Ford Hospital by Frida Kahlo refers to a tragedy that prevented her from performing what action? [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frida Kahlo
  - This artist included bloodstains on the frame of a painting of a mutilated woman, whose title comes from the words of her murderer. [PWR]
  - This artist of A Few Small Nips obscured Hampshire House with wispy clouds in a painting commissioned by Clare Boothe Luce.
  - In a painting by this artist, a skyscraper emerging from a volcano, among other things, emerges from a bathtub. [PWR]
  - A (*) pelvic bone, and orchid, and a snail are three of the six objects attached to this artist in a self-portrait set at a hospital.
  - This artist of What the Water Gave Me and The Suicide of Dorothy Hale symbolized the bus accident she experienced at age eighteen in The Broken Column.
  - This artist wears a thorn necklace and hummingbird in one of her many self-portraits.
  - For 10 points, name this unibrowed wife of Diego Rivera. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frida Kahlo
  - This artist depicted a man in overalls next to a woman in orange and a man in a tuxedo in one painting, while another work shows a lion statue and a painting of George Washington in a street in Detroit. [PWR]
  - One of this artist's works includes a naked man and woman lying on a sponge next to a red and yellow dress.
  - In another work, that same dress was shown suspended from a toilet and a trophy over skyscrapers. [PWR]
  - This painter of Autobus depicted a woman in black underneath a woman in white plunging through clouds in (*) Suicide of Dorothy Hale. and painted a bathtub with dreamlike objects floating next to the subject's feet in What the Water Gave Me. [PWR]
  - Another self-portrait showed this artist's spine as the title Broken Column.
  - In another painting, this artist created two versions of herself, one in white and one in color, connected by a blood vessel.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican artist who painted many self-portraits showing herself with monkeys and highlighting her unibrow. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frida Kahlo's self-portraits [or self-portraits by Frida Kahlo de Rivera; or self-portraits by Magda-lena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderon; prompt on self-portraits; prompt on portraits by Kahlo; prompt on Frida Kahlo]
  - In one of these paintings by this artist, the subject wears an over-sized suit and a bar of music at the top ac-companies the lyrics "Look, if I loved you it was because of your hair." A propeller plane loops around the sub-ject's head in one of these paintings titled "Time Flies." One of these paintings, which shows the subject in a wheelchair, is a double portrait with the surgeon Dr.
  - Farill.
  - One of these paintings called "The Broken Column" reflects the damage its subject suffered from a horrific bus crash at age eighteen.
  - A cat and a monkey sit on the subject's shoulders in one of these paintings depicting a thorn and hummingbird necklace.
  - For 10 points, name these paintings by and of the unibrowed wife of Diego Rivera. [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: self-portraits of Frida Kahlo [prompt on partial answer]
  - One of these paintings includes a line of music from a love song above a seated figure wearing a suit, who is surrounded by pieces of hair.
  - Another of these paintings features the face of a man with three eyes superimposed over the central figure.
  - In a third of these paintings, dragonflies and butterflies hover above a figure draped in thorns and a dead hummingbird.
  - One of these paintings depicts nails piercing the skin of its subject, who is constrained by a body brace and has a broken column instead of a spine.
  - The largest one features a blood vessel connecting the two title figures, one wearing a white Victorian gown and the other wearing a traditional Mexican dress.
  - Many of them include monkeys and emphasize the central figure's unibrow.
  - For 10 points, name these paintings by the wife of Diego Rivera. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At a tavern suggested by his mentor Constantin Brancusi ("brin-KOOSH"), this artist met his longtime friend Buckminster Fuller, of whom he sculpted a chrome-plated bust. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isamu Noguchi):
    Name this set designer for Appalachian Spring. A museum in Queens honors this American artist of Japanese ancestry, who names a modernist glass-topped coffee table.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Hale [accept The Suicide of Dorothy Hale] (That painting is The Suicide of Dorothy Hale by Frida Kahlo.)):
    Noguchi co-designed Fuller's Dymaxion car and drove it with Clare Boothe Luce and this actress. Noguchi removed the dedication from a painting that shows this socialite on a sidewalk and in the clouds in front of the Hampshire House.
  Part 3 (ans: domes [prompt on hemispheres]):
    Noguchi's frequent collaborator Shoji Sadao contributed to Fuller's idea of a geodesic one of these structures. Inspired by Fuller's designs, Epcot's Spaceship Earth is made of two of these structures.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Six blue-clad, blonde women sit in a tower in Embroidering the Earth's Mantle, a painting by this artist, who allegedly spent time forging Giorgio de Chirico ("day KEE-ree-koh") paintings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Remedios Varo [or Maria de los Remedios Alicia Rodriga Varo y Uranga] (The unnamed painting is The Juggler (The Magician))):
    Name this artist. Like her friend Leonora Carrington, this artist was interested in the occult, and she painted a juggler juggling balls of light in front of a group of near-identical gray-robed figures.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico City [or Ciudad de Mexico; or CDMX]):
    Varo, Carrington, and Kati Horna made up the "three witches" of this city, where the trio played exquisite corpse and used tarot cards.
  Part 3 (ans: Frida Kahlo [or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon]):
    This artist called Mexico City's artistic emigres, including Varo, the "bitches of Paris." She appears sporting her iconic unibrow in her Self Portrait with Thorn Necklace and Hummingbird.

[B3] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Pedro Linares created these artworks after having a dream about "a donkey with butterfly wings, a rooster with bull horns, and a lion with an eagle head." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: alebrijes ):
    Name these types of sculptures of fantastical creatures, which spread from the work of Linares and Manuel Jiminez to become a popular folk art in Oaxaca.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo ):
    Linares' alebrijes were appreciated by these two married artists, respectively the creators of the mural Man, Controller of the Universe and The Broken Column.
  Part 3 (ans: paper [accept papier-mache] (Those stars are pinatas.)):
    Alebrijes are typically carved from wood or made in the cartoneria style from this material used for Judas figurines, which is used to make seven-pointed stars that are broken during Las Posadas.

[B4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some people who are depicted in Diego Rivera's mural Dream of a Sunday Afternoon at Alameda Central Park, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo):
    This wife of Rivera is slightly left of the center of the mural. She depicted herself with a unibrow in many self-portraits, such as one with a thorn necklace and hummingbird.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Guadalupe Posada [or Jose Guadalupe Posada Aguilar]):
    Directly to the right of Kahlo is La Calavera Catrina, a female skeleton in fancy dress, who was created by this Mexican lithographer who himself appears in the mural.
  Part 3 (ans: Maximilian I ("the first") of Mexico [or Ferdinand Maximilian Josef Maria von Habsburg-Lothringen; or Fernando Maximiliano Jose Maria de Habsburgo-Lorena; accept The Execution of Emperor Maximilian; accept L'Execution de Maximilien]):
    This man is on the right of the mural, standing near Mariano Escobedo under some balloons. This man's death is depicted in a series of Edouard Manet ("muh-NAY") paintings modeled on Goya's The Third of May, 1808.

[B5] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: "These gays are trying to murder me!" No, they might just be trying to make art. For ten points each, name these 20th-century queer artists.
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo ):
    This artist who hailed from Mexico was most famous for her portraits, her relationship with Diego Rivera, and her disregard for the gender and sexual binary.
  Part 2 (ans: Moomins):
    These characters were originally created by Tove Jansson, a queer Finn. These hippolike characters, who were introduced in a strip in 1945 have since had many book and movie adaptations. Name these characters who live in their namesake "valley".
  Part 3 (ans: Gertrude Stein):
    This prominent art collector's opinion was heavily valued in the art community by the likes of Hemingway, Picasso, and other artists in Paris at the time. This poet, playwright, and novelist is given some credit for the introduction of the modernist movement and the avant-garde.

[B6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Local painter Otto van Schriek inspired this artist to use moss to apply paint and butterfly wings to add texture to the canvas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rachel Ruysch):
    Name this artist, the apprentice of Willem van Aelst. Her father's medical knowledge influenced her many paintings of flowers and insects.
  Part 2 (ans: still lifes [or nature morte]):
    Ruysch was one of the first Western painters to include cacti in paintings in this genre. Maya Kopitseva and Evgenia Antipova contributed to 20th-century innovations in this genre that depicts inanimate objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Frida Kahlo (de Rivera) [or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon]):
    This artist's still lifes include her depiction of sliced watermelons in Viva La Vida and a painting of a small skeleton sitting next to a cactus and five fruits. A volcano floats in a bathtub in this artist's What the Water Gave Me.

[B7] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist wrote "Feet, what do I need you for, if I have wings to fly?" below an illustration of her amputated feet in a 1953 entry of her diary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo [accept Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon]):
    Identify this Mexican surrealist artist who depicted her lifelong battle with chronic pain in paintings like What the Water Gave Me and The Broken Column.
  Part 2 (ans: Remedios Varo (Uranga)):
    This other Mexican surrealist artist depicted a woman made of clouds in I'll Pass Them Apart. She showed a man wearing a checkerboard floor turning gears in Useless Science or the Alchemist.
  Part 3 (ans: Kay Sage [accept Katherine Linn Sage]):
    Hundreds of blank canvases populate this artist's The Answer is No. This surrealist married Yves Tanguy, and her lonely, architectural style is exemplified by her machinescape Tomorrow is Never.

[B8] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted Henry Ford Hospital while recovering from a miscarriage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon]):
    Name this Mexican artist known for her many self portraits. Her rough marriage with Diego Rivera often influenced her art.
  Part 2 (ans: What the Water Gave Me [or What I Saw in the Water; or Lo que el agua me dio]):
    Rivera is notably not present in this Kahlo painting which operates as a memoir of her life. A skyscraper is erupting from a volcano in this painting which also depicts a married couple who are believed to be Kahlo's parents.
  Part 3 (ans: Kahlo's forehead [prompt on her body or her face]):
    Echoing Kahlo's wish to possess him despite his many affairs, paintings such as Self-portrait as a Tehuana and Diego and I placed portraits of Diego Rivera's face at this unusual location.

[B9] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man's wife helped commission a series of paintings that depicts hands rising out of a barren mountain and an enormous stamping machine meant to represent the goddess Coatlicue ("co-at-LI-kway"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Ford):
    Name this man. He also titles a votive lamina painted on sheet metal that features the images of a snail and flower connected via red ribbons to a blood-stained bed.
  Part 2 (ans: Frida Kahlo):
    This Mexican artist painted that depiction of Henry Ford Hospital. Categorized as a Surrealist against her will, she was profiled in the condescending article "Wife of the Master Mural Painter Gleefully Dabbles in Works of Art."
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Breton):
    This critic called Kahlo's work a "ribbon around a bomb" after meeting her while on a trip to Mexico to visit Leon Trotsky. He arranged for Kahlo's first solo exhibition years after writing the Surrealist manifesto.

[B10] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An enormous number of these artworks adorn the walls of the Sanctuary of Chalma in Malinalco. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: votive paintings [or retablos, laminas, or ex-votos; prompt on milagros, as that term refers to folk charms and offerings in general]):
    Name these small paintings that often feature a section of written text at the bottom, and which are ordinarily created on sheets of tin by residents of Mexico as thanks for divine intervention or miracles.
  Part 2 (ans: Frida Kahlo [or Frida Kahlo de Rivera; or Magdalena Carmen Frida Kahlo y Calderon]):
    This Mexican artist's extensive collection of votive paintings can be viewed at her former residence, the Casa Azul ("KAH-sah ah-SOOL"). This artist inserted sections of written text at the bottom of paintings such as The Suicide of Dorothy Hale.
  Part 3 (ans: childbirths [accept giving birth, and also being born or her birth, as the most common reading of the Kahlo painting is that she's giving birth to herself; prompt on miscarriage]):
    Kahlo used the votive style in a 1932 depiction of this event occurring under a portrait of a weeping Virgin of Sorrows. She also depicted the aftermath of a failed one of these events in the painting Henry Ford Hospital.

[B11] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following related to Amrita Sher-Gil, a pioneering modernist artist of Sikh ancestry, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: villages [accept Village Scene or I and the Village]):
    Most of Sher-Gil's works are set in Indian examples of these places, such as a painting of people from one of these places "going to a market," and a "scene" set in one that fetched 6.9 crore at auction. A different modernist painting titled for one of these places reflects the artist's memory of Vitebsk and contains an upside-down violinist.
  Part 2 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag] (The artist is Brassai.)):
    Sher-Gil was actually born in this country, where her family lived. An artist from this country was called the "eye of Paris" by Henry Miller for his nighttime photographs and took his mononym from this country's town of Brasso ("BRAW-sho").
  Part 3 (ans: Frida Kahlo):
    Sher-Gil is often compared with this other pioneering female modernist, the wife of Diego Rivera who painted self-portraits such as The Broken Column.

[B12] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A doll peeks over the side of one of these objects in the painting The Bride Frightened at Seeing Life Opened. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: watermelons):
    Identify these objects. In another painting by the same artist, the words "Viva la Vida" are poked into one of these objects above the artist's name and the year 1954.
  Part 2 (ans: Frida Kahlo):
    Viva la Vida was the final painting of this artist. Her husband, Diego Rivera, also painted a still life of watermelons as his final artwork.
  Part 3 (ans: the Day of the Dead):
    Watermelon symbolism in Mexican painting may be informed by the folk art tradition of this festival, which frequently depicts slices of melon being eaten.

[B13] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Images in this painting include a dead canary on top of a gnarled tree, a naked woman being choked by a rope, and a skyscraper rising out of the mouth of a volcano. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: What the Water Gave Me [or What I Saw In the Water; or Lo Que el Agua Me Dio]):
    Name this autobiographical painting that shows the artist's bare legs in a bathtub where macabre images are floating on the surface.
  Part 2 (ans: Frida Kahlo de Rivera):
    What the Water Gave Me was painted by this Mexican artist, whose many surreal self-portraits often depict her iconic unibrow. She was married to Diego Rivera.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothy Hale):
    Clare Boothe Luce commissioned Kahlo to paint a portrait commemorating the suicide of this mutual friend. The painting is full of cottony clouds and shows this woman falling from Hampshire House onto the sidewalk.

[B14] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some female painters whose work can be found at the Detroit Institute of Arts, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderon]):
    This wife of Diego Rivera is known for her self-portraits, including one with a thorn necklace.
  Part 2 (ans: Rachel Ruysch):
    This painter was the foremost flower painter in the Netherlands of her time, except perhaps for Jan van Huysum. You can see her painting Flowers in a Glass Vase at the DIA.
  Part 3 (ans: Artemisia Gentileschi):
    One of this painter's several depictions of Judith beheading Holofernes is at the DIA. Her first painting was of Susanna and the elders.

[B15] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A robot with a wooden leg waves a German flag next to another robot in a tuxedo with the words "1 2 3 Hurra" coming out of its head in this artist's Republican Automatons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Grosz):
    Name this German painter who created a painting dedicated to Oskar Panizza and placed a dollar sign over the title object in Eclipse of the Sun.
  Part 2 (ans: Frida Kahlo de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderon]):
    This other painter depicted the Sun in her painting Moses, which also includes images of mitosis, fertilization, various historical figures, and a baby in the womb. This woman was married to Diego Rivera.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederic Edwin Church):
    The ash from an erupting volcano makes the Sun color the horizon with ash in this painter's Cotopaxi. The tiny detail of two people in front of a cross appears in this man's landscape The Heart of the Andes.

[B16] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One example of this technique is used in Petrus Christus's Portrait of a Carthusian Monk, which includes a fly at the bottom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: trompe-l'oeil):
    Name this technique, French for "deceiving the eye," in which the subjects of paintings appear to pop out of their frames.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Fuseli [or Johann Heinrich Fussli]):
    This painter's work Trompe-L'oeil shows a sketch of several bulls on a sheet of paper attached to a wooden board. Encouraged to take up painting by Sir Joshua Reynolds, he produced 40 paintings of scenes from Paradise Lost and contributed to Boydell's Shakespeare Gallery.
  Part 3 (ans: Frida Kahlo de Rivera [or Magdalena Carmen Frieda Kahlo y Calderon]):
    A more modern example is this woman's painting The Suicide of Dorothy Hale. This wife of Diego Rivera sported a unibrow.

[B17] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about Latin American painters, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo):
    This painter, who was married to Diego Rivera, is known for her self-portraits and paintings like The Suicide of Dorothy Hale.
  Part 2 (ans: heart):
    In the double self-portrait The Two Fridas, the two subjects are connected by this internal organ.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Botero):
    This Colombian painter of the Abu Ghraib series is famous for his paintings of rotund people.

[B18] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist is depicted as an infant suckling from a bare-breasted woman wearing a ritual mask in My Nurse and I. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frida Kahlo):
    Name this artist whose other works includes the ethereal Suicide of Dorothy Hale.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Rivera):
    Kahlo was married to this famous Mexican muralist, who painted Man at the Crossraods and Detroit Industry.
  Part 3 (ans: The Broken Column [or La Columna Rota]):
    Kahlo's best-known treatment of her defining bus accident is probably this self-portrait, which shows the artist studded with crude nails and the titular shattered object held in place of a spine by a medical brace.
