=== STOCK CLUES: The Suicide of Dorothy Hale ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unitos Mexicanos] (The second line refers to Carrington's The Magical World of the Mayans. The third line refers to Kahlo's The Suicide of Dorothy Hale.)
  - Do not read to Ottawa A. [PWR]
  - The "science fiction" of an artist's work in this country titled a 2023 Art Institute of Chicago exhibition that highlighted the use of decalcomania in paintings such as Star Catcher.
  - This country's National Museum of Anthropology commissioned a painting that depicts a wide rainbow underneath an orange sky in a "magical world." An artist born in this country angered Clare Boothe Luce with a depiction of a socialite falling from a cloud-covered skyscraper.
  - The "Three Witches" who fled to this country during World War II included Remedios Varo and Leonora Carrington.
  - This country's "Blue House" was owned by an artist whose numerous self-portraits include one "with Thorn Necklace and Hummingbird." For 10 points, name this home country of Frida Kahlo. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At a tavern suggested by his mentor Constantin Brancusi ("brin-KOOSH"), this artist met his longtime friend Buckminster Fuller, of whom he sculpted a chrome-plated bust. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isamu Noguchi):
    Name this set designer for Appalachian Spring. A museum in Queens honors this American artist of Japanese ancestry, who names a modernist glass-topped coffee table.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothy Hale [accept The Suicide of Dorothy Hale] (That painting is The Suicide of Dorothy Hale by Frida Kahlo.)):
    Noguchi co-designed Fuller's Dymaxion car and drove it with Clare Boothe Luce and this actress. Noguchi removed the dedication from a painting that shows this socialite on a sidewalk and in the clouds in front of the Hampshire House.
  Part 3 (ans: domes [prompt on hemispheres]):
    Noguchi's frequent collaborator Shoji Sadao contributed to Fuller's idea of a geodesic one of these structures. Inspired by Fuller's designs, Epcot's Spaceship Earth is made of two of these structures.

[B2] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A bank's waiting area, rows of sleeping men in a warehouse, and skyscrapers make the three parts of a painting set in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Name this city, the setting of Frozen Assets. Man at the Crossroads was painted as a fresco in this city before being destroyed due to its controversial portrayal of Vladimir Lenin.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Rivera):
    Both Frozen Assets and Man at the Crossroads are paintings by this Mexican muralist, the husband of Frida Kahlo.
  Part 3 (ans: The Suicide of Dorothy Hale):
    In this other painting set in New York, Frida Kahlo painted a woman falling out of the Hampshire House Building.
