=== STOCK CLUES: Aristophanes ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Athens [or Athenai] (The plays mentioned are Aristophanes's The Wasps and The Clouds.)
  - While guarding over a man from this city, two men discuss dreams in which dressed sheep watch a whale do business and an eagle steals a shield from the market. [PWR]
  - A man confined to his house in this city unsuccessfully attempts to escape by pretending to be fig-wood smoke. [PWR]
  - A scholar from this city who was once defecated on by a lizard invents a term for a (*) female chicken while arguing with the protagonist about the gender of nouns. [PWR]
  - A man obsessed with this city's legal system holds court at his house for two dogs, one of whom stole a wheel of Sicilian cheese.
  - The protagonist of a play set in this city avoids paying his debts when he and Xanthias burn down the Thinkery.
  - For 10 points, name this Greek city-state and host of the Dionysia, which was frequently satirized in plays by Aristophanes. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Aristophanes
  - A play by this man includes a scene in which a magistrate confuses a herald's erection for a hidden lance. [PWR]
  - An argument in another play by this man mentions a student hypothetically having a radish shoved up his ass and ends with one character addressing the audience as "wide-assed." Several characters in a play by this man swear an oath using a skin of Thasian wine instead of sacrificing a sheep on top of a shield. [PWR]
  - The professors (*) Right Logic and Wrong Logic instruct a character in one of this man's plays, which ends with a crowd of slaves burning down The Thinkery.
  - The title character of a play by this man convinces Athenian women to withhold sex from their husbands in an attempt to end the Peloponnesian War.
  - For 10 points, name this master of Old Comedy and author of The Clouds and Lysistrata. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This god pulls down the top branch of a tree to allow the crossdressing king Pentheus to climb it in one play. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dionysus [or Bacchus; accept Dionysia; accept The Bacchae]):
    Name this god whose followers are led by Agave in that play. Athenian playwrights wrote cycles consisting of three tragedies and a satyr play to be performed at a festival in honor of this Greek god of theater and wine.
  Part 2 (ans: The Frogs [or Batrakhoi; or Ranae] (by Aristophanes)):
    To avoid being mistaken for Heracles in this play, Dionysus trades clothes with his slave Xanthias before bringing Aeschylus back from the dead. Dionysus engages in a comedic debate with this play's chanting chorus.
  Part 3 (ans: dithyrambs [or dithyrambos; accept dithyrambic poets]):
    The "frog-swans" in The Frogs are cited as parodies of writers of these songs by scholars like Jean Defradas and Cecile Corbel-Morana. Proponents of "new music" like Cinesias and Philoxenus wrote these Dionysiac hymns.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The Chorizontes ("KOH-ree-ZON-tees"), or "separators," were a faction of critics from this place who believed that the Iliad and Odyssey were by different poets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Library of Alexandria [accept Bibliotheca Alexandrina; prompt on Mouseion; prompt on Alexandrian school]):
    Name this location. Many scholars have mourned the loss of thousands of papyrus scrolls when Julius Caesar burned this ancient repository of knowledge.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes [accept Aristophanes of Byzantium] (That scene appears in The Clouds.)):
    A head librarian at Alexandria who had this name hailed from Byzantium and invented the comma. A playwright of this name critiqued intellectuals through an agon, or debate, between Superior and Inferior Arguments.
  Part 3 (ans: scholia [or scholium or scholion; prompt on marginalia]):
    Many librarians at Alexandria produced these notes and comments on authors such as Homer and Hesiod. Critics inserted these glosses, known by a Greek or Latin name, directly into the text of works they analyzed.

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character pours a bucket of water over the head of a magistrate who scorns her for analogizing the ideal workings of society to the woolworking. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lysistrata):
    Name this character who titles a play where women invoke the goddess Peace and swear over wine not to "crouch down like a lioness on all fours."
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    This author of Peace wrote about women withholding sex from their husbands in Lysistrata.
  Part 3 (ans: The Acharnians):
    Lysistrata, Peace, and this play make up the Aristophanes plays set during the Peloponnesian War. Euripides is asked for vegetables and a beggar's costume in this play about Dicaeopolis' attempt to secure peace with Sparta.

[B4] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, Hermione tells Cleone that she "loved" Pyrrhus "too much not to hate him," before asking Orestes to kill him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean Racine [or Jean-Baptiste Racine]):
    Name this author who also wrote a play in which a queen falls in love with Theseus's son despite his love for the princess Aricia.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes ):
    Racine's only comedy, The Litigants, adapts this Greek author's play The Wasps.
  Part 3 (ans: Roman emperor [prompt on politician or ruler] (The Racine play is Britannicus. The novel is Memoirs of Hadrian.)):
    A Racine character with this job poisons his stepbrother and abducts his stepbrother's fiancee. Grace Frick translated a novel in which a character with this job tells Mark about wanting to "seduce everyone and everything, even History."

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 1990 play, a con man tells the Kittredges that he's in New York to see this person, who is supposedly directing a film version of Cats. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sidney Poitier ("pwah-tee-ay") [or I Am Not Sidney Poitier]):
    Name this person who the title character of a Percival Everett novel is Not. Paul claims to be this person's son in John Guare's play Six Degrees of Separation.
  Part 2 (ans: A Raisin in the Sun):
    The real Poitier played Walter Younger in the original run of this Lorraine Hansberry play, which follows a family's financial problems in the South Side of Chicago.
  Part 3 (ans: Lysistrata (by Aristophanes)):
    Poitier's breakthrough at Harlem's American Negro Theater was a role in this play. In this comedy, a group of war-weary women seal a pact around a Thasian wine jug.

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This segment disappeared in later forms of comedy, along with most of the chorus's roles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Parabasis):
    Name this fourth section of many comedic plays, in which the chorus 'steps forward' to speak to the audience and the actors depart. It follows the Agon, or debate.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    This Athenian playwright was the most famous writer of Old Comedy. His plays include The Frogs, The Clouds, and The Wasps.
  Part 3 (ans: Poetics [or Peri poietikes, or De Poetica] (by Aristotle)):
    This treatise defines comedy as being focused on weak and less virtuous people. It outlines the structure of a related genre using six concepts including mythos, ethos, and opsis.

[B7] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This "schoolboy" titles a 17th-century dialogue that the Franciscan monk Antonio Rocco wrote in praise of sodomy, which is sometimes billed as the "first gay novel." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alcibiades ("al-suh-BYE-uh-deez") [accept Alcibiades the Schoolboy or L'Alcibiade, fanciullo a scola] {The Classical drama is The Frogs by Aristophanes.}):
    In William Shakespeare's Timon of Athens, Timon offers this man the gold he found in a cave to fund his vengeful attack on the city. In a Classical drama, a playwright claims that "'Twere best to rear no lion in the state: / But having reared, 'tis best to humour him" during a debate about returning this exiled person.
  Part 2 (ans: Gargantua and Pantagruel [or The Life of Gargantua and Pantagruel or La vie de Gargantua et de Pantagruel]):
    The prologue of this book begins by recounting how Alcibiades compared Socrates to a "Silenus," which it defines as a colorfully painted box filled with "rich jewels and fine drugs." The first English translator of this book, Thomas Urquhart, laid out a universal language in his Logopandecteision ("LOGO-pan-deck-TAY-see-on").
  Part 3 (ans: Michel de Montaigne [or Michel Montaigne or Michel Eyquem de Montaigne]):
    This other 17th-century author is compared to Alcibiades in a sonnet by his friend Etienne de La Boetie ("bo-ay-SEE"). This man coined the name of the essay genre.

[B8] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about mimesis ("mim-MEE-siss") in ancient Greek literature: Note to players: word forms acceptable.
  Part 1 (ans: diegesis [accept word forms, e.g. diegetic mode]):
    In Book III ("three") of the Republic, Socrates contrasts mimesis with this other mode of narration. Though this Greek term is often simplified to "telling" rather than the "showing" of mimesis, the distinction is imprecise in many ancient sources, as Socrates claimed that poets can accomplish this mode "by means of mimesis."
  Part 2 (ans: Poetics [or Peri poietikes]):
    This treatise by Aristotle claims that mimesis is the underlying principle that drives the creation of all art forms. This book of literary theory discusses tragedy and analyzes epic poetry, which it labels "diegematic mimesis," though its section discussing comedy is lost.
  Part 3 (ans: Thesmophoriazusae [or Women Celebrating the Thesmophoria] {Thesmophoriazusae is by Aristophanes; in the passage, Agathon is talking about cross-dressing.}):
    This play contains the first documented use of the word mimesis in a passage in which a character states "Whatever we don't have, we must capture by mimesis." Characters in this play include a woman who sells myrtle wreaths, and Micca, who desperately tries to save some spilled wine.

[B9] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, characters including Caloniki and Lampito vow not to "take the pose of a lioness on a cheese grater" while swearing an oath on a wine skin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lysistrata):
    Name this play in which a group of women attempts to stop the Peloponnesian War.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Lysistrata is a comedy by this ancient Greek playwright of The Birds and The Clouds.
  Part 3 (ans: Thesmophoria Festival [accept Thesmophoriazusae or Women at the Thesmophoria or Women Celebrating the Festival of the Thesmophoria]):
    At this event in another Aristophanes play, a man threatens what he believes to be a baby, only to learn that it is just a wine skin. A character cross-dresses to infiltrate this event so that he can spy on a group of women and learn what they think about him.

[B10] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This play is considered a commentary on the Athenian sacking of Milos during the Peloponnesian War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Trojan Women):
    Name this play, in which Andromache is unable to bury her son after her ship leaves. It describes the fate of Hecuba, Andromache, Cassandra and Helen.
  Part 2 (ans: Euripides):
    The Trojan Women was written by this ancient Greek playwright of Medea and The Bacchae.
  Part 3 (ans: Thesmophoriazusae ["thesmo-for-ee-ah-zoo-say"] (by Aristophanes)):
    As a character in this play by another author, Euripides uses various disguises to try to save his friend after he is captured at the title festival. In this play, Euripides's portrayal of women in his plays is discussed by women such as Micca in the assembly.

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After refusing to go to this place, a spoiled young man leaves to go to his uncle Megacles's house. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Thinkery [or the Thoughtery; or the Phrontisterion]):
    Name this place where a man turns to out of desperation to pay off his son's debt from buying horses. The leader of this place used wax to determine how far a flea can jump.
  Part 2 (ans: The Clouds):
    Socrates teaches at the Thinkery in this play. The chorus of this play is made up of the title goddesses, who grant Strepsiades's wish to be the most eloquent man in Greece.
  Part 3 (ans: Aristophanes):
    This ancient Greek comic writer of The Clouds also wrote Lysistrata and The Frogs.

[B12] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions related to frogs in ancient Greek literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: mice):
    Homer was originally thought to be the author of Batrachomyomachia which depicts a war between frogs and these animals which ends when Zeus sends an army of crabs to prevent the complete destruction of the frog armies.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Frogs also provides a chorus for Dionysus and Xanthias as they travel in the underworld in a play by this master of Old Comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: stork [accept heron]):
    In one of Aesop's fables, frogs who desire a king originally receive a log and then a snake who eventually eats them, though authors from the Medieval period replaced the snake with one of these birds. One of these birds offered a fox a narrow bowl of soup that only it can drink with its long beak in another fable.

[B13] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In Act Two of the play in which he appears, this character bemoans having paid for his son's education as the latter chases him around and beats him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Strepsiades ("strep-SEE-uh-deez")):
    Identify this character, the father of Pheidippides ("fye-DIP-ee-deez"), who ends the play by burning down the Thinkery with his slave Xanthias ("ZAN-thee-us").
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Socrates, a teacher at the Thinkery, instructs the incompetent Strepsiades in this Greek playwright's The Clouds.
  Part 3 (ans: lizard):
    In the play's first act, a student at the Thinkery recounts an incident in which one of these animals defecated on Socrates while the philosopher was busy contemplating the moon's path through the night sky.

[B14] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: When asked why he is sitting in a basket floating in the air, this man says that he doesn't want his mind to dry out like a piece of lettuce. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Socrates):
    Name this man who summons the personifications of a better argument and a worse argument, who argue with each other until the worse argument wins.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    An ignorant man named Strepsiades tries to get out of his debts by enrolling his son Pheidippides in Socrates's "Thinkery" in The Clouds, a play by this ancient Greek comic playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: The Wasps [or Sphekes]):
    Aristophanes criticizes the politician Cleon both in The Clouds and in this later play, in which a son who hates Cleon sets up a mock court for his father, who loves Cleon, and is addicted to serving on juries.

[B15] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a play with a prologue delivered by Pan, whose worshippers make up the chorus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Menander [or Menandros]):
    Name this Greek playwright. He created the old man Knemon, who is bullied into going to a party at the end of a play in which his daughter marries Sostratos.
  Part 2 (ans: Bodmer papyri [or Bodmer papyrus; or obvious equivalents]):
    The only near-complete text of Menander's Dyskolos was found on one of these ancient Egyptian manuscripts named for the Swiss scholar who purchased them. The 66th of these documents contains one of the oldest near-complete texts of the Gospel of John.
  Part 3 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Menander is the foremost representative of the New Comedy, in contrast to the Old Comedy, which is defined almost solely from the surviving works of this playwright contemporary with the great tragedians.

[B16] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: This city's ruler convinces Heracles to agree to a treaty after convincing him that, as a bastard, he cannot inherit Zeus's estate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cloudcuckooland):
    Name this city that accepts men who beat their fathers. Prometheus visits this city secretly, and Iris is the subject of many raunchy jokes during her trip to this city.
  Part 2 (ans: The Birds [or Orinthes]):
    The gods begin to starve after the title residents of Cloudcuckooland demand humans worship them instead in this Greek comedy.
  Part 3 (ans: Aristophanes):
    The Birds is a comedy by this Athenian author of The Clouds. Dionysus goes to the underworld to bring back Euripides in his play The Frogs.

[B17] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This character is astounded to hear of the invention of an instrument used to steal cloaks from pegs by reaching over a gymnasium wall and of the discovery of the reason fleas buzz, and begs to meet the man responsible. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Strepsiades):
    Name this character who is dismissed as a student after Socrates finds him masturbating under a blanket instead of meditating.
  Part 2 (ans: The Thinkery [or Phrontisterion]):
    In The Clouds, Strepsiades's son Pheidippides takes his place at this institution, a school run by Socrates.
  Part 3 (ans: Aristophanes):
    The Clouds was written by this playwright, a proponent of Greek Old Comedy who also wrote Lysistrata and The Frogs.

[B18] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This group allows any man to sleep with any woman in Athens, granted that he sleep with all of the uglier women first. For 10 points each;
  Part 1 (ans: Ecclesiazusae [accept: Assemblywomen or Congresswomenor Women in Poweror A Parliament of Women or Women in Parliament; prompt on women of Athens or equivalents]):
    Name this group led by Praxagora, who believe they can rule Athens better than the men.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    The Assemblywomen title a play by this Father of Old Comedy. This playwright caricatured Socrates in The Clouds.
  Part 3 (ans: the City Dionysia [accept equivalents like the festival of Dionysus]):
    In 426 BC, Aristophanes won first place for comedy with his play The Babylonians at this Athenian festival. Two years earlier, Euripides's Hippolytus won this festival's first place award for tragedy.

[B19] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Clouds, Strepsiades's slave of this name destroys the roof of the Thinkery with a a hatchet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Xanthias [do not accept "Xanthus"]):
    Give this Greek name most famously held by a slave who often corrects his Underworld-bound master Dionysus in The Frogs.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    This Ancient Greek comic playwright had his work adapted into a disastrous 1974 musical in New Haven, where the title croaking chorus of his The Frogs was played by the Yale varsity swim team and water splashed out of the pool, forcing several actors to perform on tiptoe.
  Part 3 (ans: The Wasps [or Sphekes]):
    Another Xanthias serves Anticleon in this other Aristophanes play, which centers on a mock-trial wherein a household dog accuses another of stealing cheese.

[B20] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: In this play, the slave Cario reminisces about impersonating a snake in the Temple of Asclepius in order to steal an old lady's last bit of rotten food for no reason. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Plutus ):
    Name this play, in which Chremylus asks the Delphic Oracle what values to teach his son, and is told to become a disciple of the next man he meets.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Plutus is a play by this author of Lysistrata and The Frogs.
  Part 3 (ans: Greek Old Comedy [or archaia]):
    Aristophanes was the paragon of this genre, in which obscenity, mythological characters, and political topics were common. Pherecrates and Eupolis were other exponents of this form, which had a six-part structure including the "parodos" and "agon."

[B21] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: In one of this author's plays, Agoracritus and Cleon the Paphlagonian get into a shouting contest, and are sent to retrieve oracles to win the favor of Demos. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Name this Athenian comic playwright of The Knights and Lysistrata.
  Part 2 (ans: sausages):
    In The Knights, Agoracritus makes his living by selling this food. Shortly before Agoracritus's appearance, an oracle reveals that a seller of this food is destined to rule Athens.
  Part 3 (ans: satyr play):
    In addition to stand-alone comedies like The Knights, ancient Greek theater also included these plays which were often attached to the end of tragic trilogies. Euripides' The Cyclops is the only one that completely survives.

[B22] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This scholar and his pupil Aristarchus marked line 296 of the last book of the Odyssey as its real ending, and invented the asterisk as a way of noting repeated lines in the Homeric text. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aristophanes of Byzantium [prompt on Aristophanes]):
    Name this scholar who succeeded Eratosthenes as head of the Library of Alexandria. He invented a mid-level dot that served as the predecessor to the modern comma, and he also innovated the use of accents to denote the different tones of Ancient Greek.
  Part 2 (ans: The Clouds):
    Aristophanes is also the name of a far more famous Athenian playwright. In this Aristophanes play, Pheidippides beats up his father Strepsiades after learning sophism from Socrates at the Thinkery.
  Part 3 (ans: The Assembly-Women [or Ecclesiazusae]):
    In this Aristophanes play, Praxagora gets the women of Athens to disguise themselves as men and vote themselves into power so that they can impose glorious socialism.

[B23] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: Iris flies away and reports her mistreatment to Zeus in one section of this play, and one character chases away the geometer Meton in another scene. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Birds):
    Identify this comedy in which Pisthetaerus takes over the city of Cloudcuckooland and blocks the offerings of the people below to the gods.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    The Birds is a work by this ancient Greek playwright, who depicted the women of Greece attempting to end the Peloponnesian war using a sex strike in his Lysistrata.
  Part 3 (ans: parabasis):
    This term refers to a passage in an ancient Greek play in which the chorus directly addresses the audience. In The Birds, the chorus threatens to shit on the judges if the play doesn't win the City Dionysia.

[B24] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One figure who arrives at this location is a youth overjoyed that he can now beat up his father. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cloud Cuckoo Land [or Nephelokokkygia]):
    Name this idealistic "city-in-the-sky" created by Pisthetaerus and Euelpides in the comedy The Birds. The goal of creating this location is to blockade the Olympian gods from reaching Earth.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    The Birds was written by this master of Greek comedy, whose other satirical works include The Clouds and The Frogs.
  Part 3 (ans: Prometheus):
    Near the end of the play, this figure shows up advising Pisthetaerus about how to negotiate with the gods. He wields a parasol so Zeus cannot see him. In another play, this figure predicts Io's future and rejects an offer related by Hermes from Zeus.

[B25] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this work, one character flies to an audience with the gods on the back of a giant dung beetle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peace (also accept Pax or Eirene)):
    Name this work, in which Festival and Harvest are companions of the title character.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristophanes):
    Peace is a work by this Athenian playwright whose other works of Old Comedy include characters like some Frogs who go "brekekek koax koax," and a woman trying to end a war by withholding sex, Lysistrata.
  Part 3 (ans: Trygaeus):
    This protagonist of Peace, is successful in freeing Peace and ending the Peloponnesian War after he gets advice from Hermes. The play ends with this character's marriage to Harvest.
