=== STOCK CLUES: Hundred Years' War ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 54 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 26 found, 78 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | Current Events
     Answer: "From the river to the sea" [or "From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free", "Min il-mayye la-l-mayye, Falastin 'arabiyye", "Min an-nahr 'ila l-bahr, Filastin sa-tataharrar", "Palastina wird frei sein, vom Fluss bis zum Meer", "Desde el rio hasta al mar, Palestina vencera", or "Desde el rio hasta al mar, Palestina sera libre"; prompt on "Palestine will be free", "Filastin sa-tataharrar", "Falastin 'arabiyye", "Palastina wird frei sein", "Palestina vencera", or "Palestina sera libre" by asking "what is the rest of the phrase?"] (Internal migrants in Cuba are nicknamed "Palestinos." Ghassan Kanafani wrote Men in the Sun. Rashid Khalidi wrote The Hundred Years' War on Palestine. The other slogan is "globalize the intifada.")
  - Miguel Diaz-Canel led a march of medical students using this phrase and linked its cause to Cuba, where its subject is also a term for migrants from Oriente Province.
  - This phrase names a festival held in La Rioja, Argentina, to fundraise for Colectivo Sumud.
  - This phrase is invoked to describe the ambition to "transform the entire country" via the "politicide" of writers like the author of Men in the Sun in a 2020 book titled for a "Hundred Years' War." Police banned this phrase for violating Paragraph 130 in Berlin, where it is often recited by the Barbakh family.
  - Like a call to "globalize," this phrase is outlawed in Queensland.
  - House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries stated that this slogan calls for a state's "complete destruction" in censuring its use by Rashida Tlaib.
  - For 10 points, the lands west of the Jordan are invoked by what slogan chanted before "Palestine will be free"? [GIVE]

[T2] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Hundred Years' War [or Guerre de Cent Ans; accept Edwardian phase until "Edward" is read, even though that is named for Edward III; accept Caroline or Lancastrian phase]
  - During this war, a siege expert nicknamed the Archpriest for his former vocation personally confessed to the Pope after extorting villages subject to the Queen of Naples.
  - During this war, pillaging "late-comers" and clothes-stealing "flayers" led by the "Emperor of Pillagers," Rodrigo de Villandrando , were among demobilized free companies that turned to brigandry.
  - At a trial in Nantes , a general who fought in this war confessed to murdering over a hundred children.
  - After fighting together in this war, Jacques le Gris  was killed by Jean de Carrouges  in a high-profile judicial duel.
  - In this war, serial killer Gilles de Rais  helped relieve a siege of an Armagnac -aligned city.
  - For 10 points, the French countryside was ravaged by Edward the Black Prince's chevauchee raids during what very long late medieval war? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Fall (2023) | Diff: 6 | History
     Answer: Hundred Years' War [prompt on Edwardian War or Caroline War or Lancastrian War or Jacquerie or Battle of Agincourt or Battle of Poitiers by asking "that took place within what wider conflict?"]
  - During this conflict, the Battle of Mello ended a peasant revolt led by a man often called Jack Goodfellow.
  - Mercenary free companies known as routiers caused widespread destruction and captured John II "the Good" during this conflict.
  - The Jacquerie uprising took place during this conflict.
  - One side's heavy use of longbows in this conflict secured a pivotal victory at a battle fought on Saint Crispin's Day.
  - Edward the Black Prince achieved major victories during this conflict at the Battles of Crecy and Poitiers .
  - For 10 points, the Battle of Agincourt  took place during what wider conflict between England and France, which lasted just over a century? [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 Delta Burke (2014) | Diff: 6 | History
     Answer: Hundred Years' War
  - One side in this war made use of a raiding tactic earlier utilized by the Spanish that was known as the chevauchee.
  - The blind John of Bohemia died at one battle in this war.
  - This war, whose history is detailed in Jean Froissart's Chronicles, began with a naval battle at Sluys.
  - One ruler during this war refused to send reserves to one of his generals because he wanted him to "win his spurs." During this war, Edward the Black Prince won the Battle of Crecy.
  - A later battle in this war was fought on muddy terrain that catastrophically slowed Charles D'Albert's cavalry.
  - Including Henry V's victory at Agincourt, For 10 points, name this war fought between France and England that lasted from 1137 to 1453. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 ACF Fall (2014) | Diff: 6 | History
     Answer: the Hundred Years' War
  - During this war, groups of unemployed mercenaries such as the Flayers of Dead Men and the Routiers pillaged the countryside.
  - A ruler during this war suffered from the glass delusion and held a party at which some knights dressed as wild men were accidentally set on fire.
  - In a battle of this war, the blind King John of Bohemia was killed, leading the victor to adopt his crest of three ostrich feathers.
  - Jean Froissart wrote a history of this war.
  - William Cale led the Jacquerie revolt during this war after John II was captured at the Battle of Poitiers and ransomed.
  - For 10 points, name this war which also included the Battles of Crecy and Agincourt, a lengthy conflict between France and England. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | History
     Answer: Hundred Years' War [or La Guerre de Cent Ans]
  - It's not a civil war, but both sides in this war contemporaneously backed opposing factions in the War of the Two Peters.
  - In one of its final battles, a commander previously captured at Patay was killed. [PWR]
  - That battle in this war was won when Jean Bureau set up a ditch and cannon around his camp near Castillon. [PWR]
  - This war featured a military commander nicknamed "La Hire," who is traditionally associated with the image of the Jack of Hearts. [PWR]
  - One side had its navy destroyed at the Battle of (*) Sluys and suffered a decisive defeat on St. [PWR]
  - Crispin's Day.
  - During this war, Henry V won the Battle of Agincourt, while his opponents were inspired by Joan of Arc.
  - For 10 points, name this war between England and France that lasted from 1337 to 1453. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 Collegiate Novice (2013) | Diff: 6 | History
     Answer: Hundred Years' War
  - During this war, one ruler gave himself up as a prisoner after his son dishonorably escaped from being held captive in place of him.
  - That king, John the Good, was ransomed in the Treaty of Bretigny after being captured at the Battle of Poitiers during this war, which grew out of a succession dispute between Philip VI and Edward III.
  - Its major turning points included Henry V's victory at Agincourt and the siege of Orleans, which was broken by Joan of Arc in 1429.
  - For 10 points, name this really long war between England and France. [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Xhosa Wars [or the Kaffir Wars; or Africa's Hundred Years War; prompt on "Hundred Years' War"]
  - The H.M.S.
  - Birkenhead was carrying soldiers to one of these wars when it sank in a disaster that originated the tradition of "women and children first." Another of these wars, which began after a mission to jailbreak Tsili the axe-thief resulted in the death of a prisoner handcuffed to Tsili, was nicknamed the "war of the axe." The last stage of these conflicts was fought between Sandile and the Fengu descendants of refugees, who had allied with this war's winning side.
  - The last of these conflicts occurred after the prophetess Nongqawuse caused a massive (*) famine by encouraging her people to massacre all of their cattle. [PWR]
  - Piet Retief's anger at the weak British response to these conflicts inspired him to lead the Great Trek.
  - For 10 points, name this series of conflicts collectively nicknamed "Africa's Hundred Years' War," in which Dutch settlers and British troops teamed up against a South African people known for a click-based language. [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 ACF Fall (2012) | Diff: 6 | History
     Answer: Hundred Years' War
  - Near the end of this war, John Talbot was defeated at the Battle of Castillon.
  - Froissart reports that Jack Goodfellow, or Guillaume Cale, led the Jacquerie uprising during this war.
  - Briefly suspended by the Peace of Bretigny, this war began at the Battle of Sluys.
  - Charles d'Albret was killed during a battle in this war that was preceded by the St.
  - Crispin's Day speech.
  - A cavalry charge across a muddy field during this war was repulsed by one side's longbowmen at a battle won by Henry V.
  - For 10 points, name this long war fought between England and France that included the Battle of Agincourt. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: A ruler with this name commissioned Claus Sluter and his workshop to build the ornate Chartreuse de Champmol, where he is today buried. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip [accept Philip the Bold or Philip the Good]):
    Give this name of a ruler who gained control of Flanders by marrying its Countess Margaret III. A different ruler with this name celebrated his marriage to Isabella of Portugal by founding the Order of the Golden Fleece.
  Part 2 (ans: Dijon [accept Dijon mustard]):
    The Chartreuse de Champmol is located in this city, which was the capital of Burgundy before Bruges. This city was the center of production for a good later altered by Jean Naigeon ("nay-jon") to be made with verjuice instead of vinegar.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Philip the Bold gained his epithet from his bravery during this conflict, during which he and his father, also named Philip, were captured by the forces of Edward the Black Prince at the Battle of Poitiers.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This king held a "Loveday" at St. Paul's Cathedral in an attempt to make peace among warring factions of nobles. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry VI ):
    Name this king, who married Margaret of Anjou and faced a popular rebellion led by Jack Cade. The rebellion of a dissatisfied Richard Neville led to this king's Readeption.
  Part 2 (ans: 1st Duke of Suffolk [or William de la Pole]):
    Henry's marriage to Margeret of Anjou was negotiated by this noble, one of his close advisors. This noble, nicknamed Jackanapes, fell from favor and was killed by a mob while leaving England by boat.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War [or la Guerre de Cent Ans]):
    Henry also lost this war against the French during its final Lancastrian Phase. The English defeat at Castillon unofficially ended this war and left England with the Pale of Calais as its only major continental holding.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The leader of this rebellion, Guillaume Cale, was tricked and imprisoned shortly before his defeat at the Battle of Mello. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacquerie [prompt on Jacques; or Jacque Bonhomme; or Jack Goodfellow]):
    Name this peasant revolt that took place in northern France during the summer of 1358. This rebellion takes its name from peasants' padded tunics, as well as from the derogatory first name given to its leader.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War [or la guerre de Cent Ans]):
    The Jacquerie was partly prompted by political instability after the French defeat at the Battle of Poitiers during this wider conflict against England.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Froissart):
    This fourteenth-century aristocrat referred to the rebellion's leader as Jack Goodfellow. This author's Chronicles are a major source for the first half of the Hundred Years' War.

[B4] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This king pillaged the Lothian countryside during an unsuccessful campaign against Scotland known as "Burnt Candlemas." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward III [prompt on Edward]):
    Name this English king. This king's troops moved the Black Rood of Scotland to Durham Cathedral after humiliating David II's troops at the Battle of Neville's Cross.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War [prompt on Edwardian War]):
    David II invaded England to assist its ally France, which was being invaded during this conflict. The English were victorious at the Battles of Crecy ("kray-SEE") and Poitiers ("pwaht-YAY") during this conflict.
  Part 3 (ans: Balliol ("BAY-lee-ul") [or de Bailleul; accept Edward Balliol or John Balliol]):
    During the Second Scottish war of Independence, Edward III backed a royal claimant from this family with first name Edward. Edward I appointed John, a Scottish king with this surname, at a 1292 parliament in Berwick-upon-Tweed.

[B5] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: Christine de Pizan wrote the "Letter Concerning the Prison of Human Life" to console women who lost relatives in this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Agincourt [prompt on Hundred Years' War]):
    Name this event. In a Shakespeare history play, the title king addresses "we happy few, we band of brothers" in the St Crispin's Day speech just before this historical event.
  Part 2 (ans: rose [or Romance of the Rose or Roman de la Rose; prompt on flowers or similar]):
    A series of letters by Pizan attacks the misogyny of a poem titled for the "Romance" of one of these things, which was mainly written by Jean de Meun ("ZHON duh MURN").
  Part 3 (ans: love [or amour or amor]):
    Those letters by Pizan include a "Letter to the God of" this concept, which the Romance of the Rose purports to provide a "mirror" of. Troubadours often sang about the "courtly" form of this emotion.

[B6] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Marauders known as ecorcheurs ("ay-kor-SHUR") harassed French peasants during this conflict. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hundred Years' War [or La guerre de Cent Ans; prompt on Anglo-French Wars; prompt on Edwardian War or Lancastrian War by asking "that was a phase of what broader conflict?"]):
    Name this conflict during which the French hired Genoese crossbowmen to fight against Edward III at the Battle of Crecy. Joan of Arc helped fend off the siege of Orleans during this conflict.
  Part 2 (ans: condottiere ("cone-dote-TYEH-ray") [or condottiero; or condottieri]):
    One of these people named John Hawkwood led many English and French Hundred Years' War veterans in the White Company. These mercenary captains fought various wars in Italy.
  Part 3 (ans: chevauchees ("sheh-voh-SHAYs")):
    This French term refers to the fast, devastating raids on the countryside that were carried out by Edward III's troops during the Hundred Years' War.

[B7] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Olivier de Clisson's execution of prisoners after sieges and enemy chevauchees ("shuh-vo-SHAY") launched in Brittany during the reign of this king earned him the nickname "the Butcher." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles V of France [accept Charles the Wise or Charles le Sage; prompt on Charles]):
    Name this king who appointed Bertrand du Guesclin ("bair-TRAWN due gay-CLAN") as constable. This king's navy and a Castilian force under Ambrosio Boccanegra defeated the Earl of Pembroke's navy at the Battle of La Rochelle.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Poitiers ("pwaht-YAY")):
    Early in his reign, Charles V was forced to sign the humiliating Treaty of Bretigny ("bray-teen-YEE") to ransom back his father John II, who was captured after this 1356 battle won by Edward the Black Prince.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The Battle of Poitiers and the Treaty of Bretigny ended the Edwardian phase of this lengthy medieval conflict between England and France.

[B8] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: These animals provided the basis of a practice known as furusiyah popular in the Mamluk Sultanate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: horses):
    Name these animals. In addition to providing veterinary advice, various furusiyah treatises instruct how to hunt or play polo while riding these animals.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Ain Jalut [or Battle of Ayn Jalut]):
    When adapting furusiyah horsemanship from Abbasid traditions, the Mamluks emphasized military training to counter Mongol aggression, which they halted at this 1260 battle. Baibars assassinated Qutuz, declaring himself sultan, after this battle.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The practice of furusiyah likely influenced the Book of Chivalry, written after Geoffroi de Charny's participation in this Europe-based conflict. Jean Froissart discussed chivalry during this conflict in the Chronicles.

[B9] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: The Toxophilus was a book written on the use of this weapon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: longbow [prompt on bow and arrow]):
    Name this weapon used by up to 80% of English troops against Charles d'Albret's forces at the Battle of Agincourt. This weapon was often made from yew wood.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The longbow was used by English armies throughout much of this war from 1337 to 1453, during which the English tried to subjugate France. Joan of Arc helped lead French armies in this war after the Siege of Orleans.
  Part 3 (ans: cannons [accept bombards; prompt on artillery or guns]):
    The efficacy of the longbow was reduced by the use of this other weapon, which the French used in 1453 at Castillon. That same year, one of these weapons designed by Orban was used in a military campaign by Mehmed II.

[B10] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: After the death of one of their husbands and the capture of the other, Joan of Penthievre and Joanna of Flanders led the two factions in a war for control of this region. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Brittany [or Bretagne; accept War of the Breton Succession]):
    Name this northern region of France, where a succession dispute in the House of Dreux led to a proxy war involving the Montfort and Blois families.
  Part 2 (ans: Isabella of Bavaria [accept Isabelle or Isabeau of Bavaria]):
    At a masquerade thrown by this queen, a torch on the dance floor set several dancers on fire. This woman ruled France during the madness of her husband, Charles VI, and her historical reputation suffered due to polemics exchanged in the Burgundian-Armagnac Dispute.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The War of the Breton Succession was a phase of, and Isabella ruled during, what lengthy conflict between France and England?

[B11] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man murdered nobleman Carlos de la Cerda in an inn after having a public argument with him in Paris. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles the Bad of Navarre [or Charles II, King of Navarre; prompt on Charles]):
    Name this notorious ruler who was accidentally burnt alive by his nurse while wrapped in a linen sack soaked in brandy.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacquerie):
    Charles the Bad put down this rebellion and tortured its leader at the Battle of Mello. This French peasant rebellion was led by a man colloquially called "Jack Goodfellow", though his real name was Guillaume Cale.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Charles the Bad's ruthlessness was described in the Chronicles by Jean Froissart, which documented this war's progress. The Jacquerie broke out after the capture of John II of France at the Battle of Poitiers in this war.

[B12] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This king punished his daughters for adultery with Norman knights after the knights were found with embroidered purses given by Isabella of France to her sisters-in-law. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip IV of France [accept Philip the Fair or Philippe le Bel; accept the Iron King or le Roi de fer]):
    Name this king who dealt with the aftermath of the Tour de Nesle ("nell") affair. This king antagonized the Flemish after taking control of Flanders despite a disastrous defeat at the Battle of the Golden Spurs.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward III [prompt on Edward]):
    As a result of widespread suspicion of women in power after the Tour de Nesle affair and confusions over Salic law, this English king, the son of Isabella, disputed the throne of France with Philip VI.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Edward III's claim was strengthened by the fact that the senior line of the Capetian dynasty failed to produce a male heir, leading to this lengthy conflict between England and France.

[B13] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: This conflict was initiated when a 1358 ordinance required all castles and fortresses be repaired and stocked with provisions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Jacquerie):
    Name this three-week long conflict in northern France, where peasant forces led by Guillaume Cale set fire to numerous manor houses and killed the noble families within. It was named for a French colloquium for a peasant.
  Part 2 (ans: Wat Tyler):
    The motivations of the Jacquerie were similar to those of the English Peasants Revolt of 1381, which was led by this man. Richard II had this leader killed during peace negotiations near Smithfield.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Both the Jacquerie and the English Peasants' revolt took place during this lengthy war between France and England. Joan of Arc participated in the Siege of Orleans during this war.

[B14] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: Catalina de Erauso, known as La Monja ("MOAN-hah") Alferez, is now remembered for performing this action, which allowed her to fight the Mapuches in colonial Chile and hold an audience with Pope Urban VIII. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cross-dressing [accept descriptions of dressing like a man; prompt on descriptions such as acting like a different person or acting like someone else; do not accept or prompt on "dressing in drag" or "dressing like a woman"] (La Monja Alferez translates as "The Nun Lieutenant," and the pirates were Anne Bonny and Mary Read.)):
    Give this action undertaken by the Fernig sisters and the apocryphal Polly Oliver. On his ship, "Calico" Jack employed a pair of pirates known today for performing this action, which they later revealed to stay their executions.
  Part 2 (ans: Pope Joan [accept Ioannes Anglicus]):
    First mentioned hundreds of years after her supposed reign, this cross-dressing woman is said to be the only female pope. After this woman gave birth during a parade, popes legendarily had to be fondled to ensure the existence of their testicles.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    She's no pope, but Joan of Arc was burned at the stake for cross-dressing during this lengthy war broadly fought between England and France during the 14th and 15th centuries.

[B15] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Medieval wars can get confusing, but mainly because the people involved seemed to like having the same name as everyone else involved. Answer some questions about that, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hundred Years' War [prompt on the First Castilian Civil War and equivalents]):
    Castile and Aragon's "War of the Two Peters" became a theater of this other conflict when Aragon's Peter supported a French-backed claimant to Castile's throne, leading the other Peter to call in Edward the Black Prince.
  Part 2 (ans: War of the Three Henrys):
    One war of this name was a rebellion by several dukes and bishops with the same name against Holy Roman Emperor Otto II. The winner of a better known conflict of this name declared that "Paris is well worth a mass".
  Part 3 (ans: Sancho [also accept War of the Three Sanchos]):
    A "Great" king of Pamplona of this name's posthumous division of his lands led to a war between Jimenez kings of Castile, Navarre, and Aragon, all of this name, that was resolved when Aragon's one got tossed off a cliff.

[B16] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The success of this man's invasion resulted in his primary political opponent dying in Berkeley castle when a hot poker was placed in his anus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roger Mortimer, 1st Earl of March [prompt on Mortimer]):
    Name this Marcher Lord who was seized by a parliament at Nottingham and hanged at Tyburn after Henry of Lancaster grew weary of his abuse of power. His wife Joan de Geneville was pardoned by Edward III.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Just after pardoning Joan, Edward III instigated this long conflict with France after claiming that he was the rightful heir to the French throne.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Bannockburn):
    Prior to Mortimer's invasion, Edward II was defeated at this battle, during which the forces of Robert the Bruce used a schiltrom to hold off assaults by English knights and defended Stirling Castle.

[B17] 2017 SUN (2017) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: One king with this name was the first monarch of the House of Tudor while another was the second king of the House of Lancaster. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry [Accept Henry VII or Henry II or Henry V]):
    Give this name whose fifth holder was the English victor at the Battle of Agincourt.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Henry V's victory at Agincourt was during this long conflict between England and France whose tide was later turned by the Maid of Orleans, Joan d'Arc.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis the Spider King [or Louis XI; or Louis the Prudent; prompt on Louis]):
    This monarch defeated Charles the Bold of Burgundy and signed the Treaty of Picquigny, formally ending the Hundred Years' War. This monarch gained his arachnid epithet for his cunning.

[B18] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Thomas Paine and Adam Smith are among the people who helped administer this measure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: excise tax):
    Name this measure that John Brewer argues allowed Britain to develop a "fiscal-military" state in his book Sinews of Power. This measure overtook a similar one on land and helped Britain fund its extraordinary war debts.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War [or Second Hundred Years' War]):
    The excise tax helped Britain win the second of these conflicts against France, which lasted from 1689 to 1815. Henry V won the Battle of Agincourt during the first conflict of this name, which also lasted a very long time.
  Part 3 (ans: Queen Anne I):
    Brewer claims that the Treasury became more professional under this monarch's officials Sidney Godolphin and Robert Harley. Sarah Churchill was a confidant of this ruler, whose reign saw the Scottish Act of Union.

[B19] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Breton politics and dynasties were tied up with Anglo-French relations for centuries. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: De Blois):
    Name this dynasty who fought with the Montforts in the War of Breton Succession. Members of this House also include Stephen, who was killed at Ramla in 1102, father of the last Norman king of England.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The War of Breton Succession was an early side-act in this larger Anglo-French conflict, known for the Battles of Crecy and Agincourt.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir John Chandos):
    The Montforts eventually won after victory at the Battle of Auray. They were supported in that battle by this Englishman, founding member of the Order of the Garter and mastermind of the victories of Crecy and Poitiers.

[B20] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Robert Bemborough was killed in an engagement in this war that is often heralded as the prime example of medieval chivalry, the Combat of the Thirty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: War of the Breton Succession):
    Name this war fought between a member of the house of Montfort and the house of Blois. It ended after the Battle of Auray.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The War of the Breton Succession was a phase of this larger, very lengthy conflict that began when the British monarch Edward III instituted a claim to the French throne.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip VI):
    The sixth French monarch of this name defeated a Flemish uprising at the Battle of Cassel, but was less successful against the English in the Hundred Years' War, suffering defeats at Sluys and Crecy.

[B21] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In order to offset the effects of this enormous payment, the twelve-year-old Isabella of France was married off to Gian Galeazzo Visconti (JAHN gah-lay-AHT-zo viz-CON-tee) in exchange for 600,000 ecus (AY-kooz), or crowns. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ransom of John II of France [accept equivalents in place of "ransom"; accept Jean II or John the Good or Jean le Bon in place of "John II"; prompt on partial answers or answers mentioning "Jean" or "John"]):
    Name this payment set by the Treaty of Bretigny at three million ecus, 40 hostages, and such large territories as Guyenne and Gascony. One hostage, Louis I, Duke of Anjou, dishonored this payment by escaping from captivity.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Poitiers):
    Before being ransomed, John was captured by Edward the Black Prince at this battle. Jean Froissart (zhahn frwah-SAR) reports that, at this battle, the king yielded himself to the banished French knight Denis of Morbeke (day-NEE of MOR-beck), who was by then fighting for England.
  Part 3 (ans: Hundred Years' War [accept Edwardian War or Edwardian Phase of the Hundred Years' War]):
    The aforementioned events occurred during this long war between England and France, initiated because the Plantagenets disputed the French throne with the house of Valois.

[B22] 2016 Delta Burke (2016) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: This conflict's last stage saw John Talbot lose Gascony after the Battle of Castillon, twenty years before the signing of the Treaty of Picquigny. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Name this conflict between Britain and France which turned in France's favor after the entrance of Joan of Arc during the Siege of Orleans.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward [accept Edward III; or Edward of Woodstock]):
    One man with this name led English troops at the battles of Crecy and Poitiers and is known as the "Black Prince." His father, a king with this name, titles the first phase of the Hundred Years' War.
  Part 3 (ans: John II [or Jean II; or John the Good; prompt on John or Jean]):
    The Battle of Crecy saw the Black Prince capture this king of France.

[B23] 2015 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2015) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: The winner of this battle was found guilty of war crimes by a 2010 tribunal featuring Samuel Alito and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Agincourt):
    Name this battle fought on Saint Crispin's Day. Longbow-wielding archers proved to be crucial in destroying the absent Charles VI's army.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The Battle of Agincourt was part of this extremely long war basically between England and France. It ran from 1337 to 1453.
  Part 3 (ans: Treaty of Troyes):
    A few years after his triumph at Agincourt, Henry V married Catherine of Valois and this treaty, signed in a French city in 1420, established that Henry's heirs would inherit the French throne.

[B24] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: The Parisian merchant Etienne Marcel supposedly surrendered Paris during this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacquerie):
    Name this 14th century rebellion of French peasants led by Guillaume Cale. It followed up on a disastrous defeat at the Battle of Poitiers and was put down by Charles the Bad of Navarre.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War [or Guerre de Cent Ans]):
    The Jacquerie and the Battle of Poitiers both took place during this rather long war between England and France, which saw other notable engagements at Agincourt and Crecy.
  Part 3 (ans: Aquitaine):
    The war was sparked in part by Philip VI's confiscation of English holdings in this French region, which made Edward III his vassal. England gained this territory when a woman from here named Eleanor married Henry II.

[B25] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This region's succession war was fought between the Houses of Blois and Montfort. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Brittany [accept War of Breton Succession]):
    Name this region, the site of the Battle of Auray, where English and Montfort forces defeated French forces. Unfortunately for the English, this region then proceeded to swear homage to France.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    The War of Breton Succession was part of this larger and very long conflict between France and England. In its later phases, the forces of Joan of Arc turned the tide against the English.
  Part 3 (ans: Isabella):
    The English claim to the French throne during the Hundred Years' War came from Edward III's mother of this name, who was a lover of Roger Mortimer. Another monarch of this name was advised by Tomas de Torquemada.

[B26] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This ruler negotiated the Treaty of Troyes in which he received his future consort Catherine of Valois as a hostage, and this man's kingdom was engulfed in rebellion with the dissent of "Hotspur" Henry Percy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry V):
    Identify this monarch who thwarted the Southampton Plot which was an assassination attempt against this individual. This man also crushed Owain Glyndwyr's revolt in Wales.
  Part 2 (ans: Hundred Years' War):
    Henry V was one of many individuals to participate in this very long conflict between England and France. One battle that was part of this conflict resulted in French cavalry being decimated by Welsh longbowmen at Agincourt.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean Froissart):
    The best primary sources for events during the Hundred Years War come from this French chronicler. This man also wrote about the Ball of Burning Men Incident, in which costumes of dancers caught on fire at a banquet because the costumes were soaked in pork fat and resin.
