=== STOCK CLUES: Mussorgsky ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 37 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Modest (Petrovich)  Mussorgsky
  - An unfinished opera by this composer ends with an "Allegretto scherzando" dance that begins with G and D open strings in the violins. [PWR]
  - This composer never finished an opera that features a late-addition dream sequence whose music opens with the fast chromatic motif 'A, G-sharp, A, B-fiat, A, G-sharp', and which concludes with a Gopak finale. [PWR]
  - The monologue "My soul grieves" appears in an operatic scene by this composer that is introduced by (*) bells.
  - Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov assembled a tone poem credited to this composer using material from this composer's opera Sorochyntsi Fair .
  - This composer included a "Coronation Scene" in an opera about a Russian tsar during the Time of Troubles.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian composer of the opera Boris Godunov , as well as the tone poem Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures at an Exhibition . [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: oxen [accept cattle, cow, bull, bovine, bullock, or Bydlo; accept Le Bœuf sur le toit or The Ox on the Roof; accept The Angora Ox or Le Bœuf Angora] (Modest Mussorgsky composed Pictures at an Exhibition.)
  - It's not a rabbit or goat, but an "angora" type of this animal titles a piano piece that Nicolas Horvath arranged from an incomplete Erik Satie piece for orchestra.
  - A violin showpiece called Cinema-Fantaisie was arranged from a piece titled for this animal, which presents its theme in every major key and features a part for the guiro.
  - A bar that Jean Cocteau named for this animal was the main meeting place of Les Six .
  - In a transcription of a movement depicting this animal, Maurice Ravel added a pianissimo dynamic to a melody played by a tuba over lumbering strings; that movement is sandwiched between one depicting the Tuileries and a "Ballet of Chicks in their Shells." One of these animals titles a Brazilian-influenced ballet by Darius Milhaud , in which it is "on the roof." For 10 points, name this animal that titles the fourth tableau of Pictures at an Exhibition, which depicts them drawing a cart. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Modest Mussorgsky
  - This composer's belief about the mission of the artist was reflected in their motto "to new shores." Act II of an opera by this composer ends with a tritone ostinato between A and E-flat, representing a character's teetering sanity as he hallucinates the bloody body of a child.
  - This composer only finished one act of an opera without key signatures where they organized accented syllables and note values to mimic conversational speech intonations. [PWR]
  - That "experiment in dramatic music in prose" by this composer was influenced by Alexander (+) Dargomyzhsky's The Stone Guest.
  - After it was rejected for having no female leads, this composer of Marriage reworked their most famous opera to include the "Polish Act" and expanded the roles of Xenia and Marina. [PWR]
  - In that opera by this composer, two alternating dominant seventh chords underscore ringing bells as the people sing a "Slava" chorus in its (*) Coronation Scene. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Boris Godunov. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Modest Mussorgsky
  - One piece by this composer begins with violins rapidly repeating "A - G sharp - A - B flat - A - G sharp" triplet eighth notes before being joined by the other strings repeating "G - F sharp - A - F sharp" in pizzicato quarters. [PWR]
  - Debussy's piano suite Children's Corner was inspired by this composer's song cycle The Nursery.
  - The opening movement of a suite by this composer features a time signature that alternates between (*) 5/4 and 6/4. [PWR]
  - That suite by this composer was inspired by Viktor Hartmann artwork, was orchestrated by Ravel and contains multiple "Promenades".
  - For 10 points name this composer of Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures at an Exhibition. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky
  - One of this composer's songs has the refrain "lullaby, lullaby" sung by Death in lento funesto sections that alternate with agitato sections in which a mother defends her dying baby.
  - That song belongs to a cycle of poems by Arseny Golenishchev-Kutuzov.
  - Dmitri Shostakovich orchestrated that cycle for Galina Vishnevskaya and responded to it in his Symphony No. 14.
  - Another song cycle by this composer includes "With Nanny" and "In the Corner" and inspired Debussy's Children's Corner Suite.
  - This composer of The Nursery and Songs and Dances of Death made a piano arrangement of the Gopak he wrote for an unfinished opera based on a Gogol story, The Fair at Sorochyntsi.
  - A recurring theme from another piece by this composer alternates between 5/4 and 6/4 time and is called "Promenade." For 10 points, name this composer of Pictures at an Exhibition. [GIVE]

[T6] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Modest Mussorgsky
  - Nikolai Malko's 1932 performance of a piece by this composer in London helped revive the popularity of that piece's original version.
  - A rondo in the form A, B, A, B, C, A, D, A is used in the final movement of a suite by this composer, the first movement from which uses a pentatonic scale and alternates between 5/4 and 6/4 time. [PWR]
  - A movement from that suite by this composer evokes bells from a structure planned to be built by Viktor (*) Hartmann. [PWR]
  - Leopold Stokowski removed a "fanfare" depicting a dark god in his 1940 arrangement one of this composer's pieces; that piece depicts a witches' sabbath on St.
  - John's Eve.
  - Maurice Ravel orchestrated a suite by this composer which includes the movement "The Great Gate of Kiev." For 10 points, name this composer of Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures at an Exhibition. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky [or variants of "Musersky" for the surname, apparently]
  - A trip to Gurzuf inspired this man to compose a pair of piano pieces, the second of which is subtitled "Baydarki Capriccio." One of his song cycles features a Trepak in which a peasant thinks of summertime while freezing in a blizzard. [PWR]
  - That work ends with a song depicting the title figure as a Field-Marshal. [PWR]
  - Another piece by him ends shortly after a distant (*) church-bell causes the "spirits of darkness" to disperse. [PWR]
  - "The Old Castle" and "The Gnome" are among the movements of a piano work by this composer of Songs and Dances of Death; that work, which was orchestrated by Maurice Ravel, ends with "The Great Gate of Kiev." For 10 points, name this member of the Mighty Five who composed Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures at an Exhibition. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At its closing, this composer directed the Hamburg State Opera, which was the first company north of Italy to produce public operas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georg Philipp Telemann (The piece is Tafelmusik.)):
    What godfather of C. P. E. Bach wrote a suite sometimes titled Hamburger Ebb und Fluth and a set of three "productions" meant to be played at meals?
  Part 2 (ans: Water Music [or Wassermusik]):
    Telemann's Hamburger Ebb und Fluth suite is more typically given this title. Handel wrote three suites with this title that premiered on the River Thames.
  Part 3 (ans: Boris Godunov [or Tsar Boris; or Boris Feodorovich Godunov; or Boris Goudenow; reject "Boris I"] (The second sentence describes the "Coronation Scene" from Modest Mussorgsky's opera.)):
    The Hamburg-born composer Johann Mattheson is best known for an opera about this historical figure. A scene from a 19th-century opera titled for this person begins with 38 bars of alternating A-flat dominant seventh and D dominant seventh chords.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the saxophone in Russian music, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Pictures at an Exhibition [or Tableau d'une Exposition; or Bilder einer Austellung] (by Modest Mussorgsky)):
    The most commonly performed orchestration of this piece includes a saxophone solo in the movement "The Old Castle." This piece also includes the movement "The Hut on Fowl's Legs."
  Part 2 (ans: Alexander Glazunov [or Aleksandr Konstantinovich Glazunov]):
    This composer's 1934 saxophone concerto was one of his last works, composed after he had resigned as head of the St. Petersburg Conservatory in 1930. This composer also wrote music for the ballets Raymonda and The Seasons.
  Part 3 (ans: Sergei Rachmaninoff [or Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninoff]):
    This composer included a saxophone part in his Symphonic Dances. This composer's large hands made it easier to play his pieces such as Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.

[B3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these pieces orchestrated by Maurice Ravel, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Pictures at an Exhibition [or Pictures from an Exhibition; or Tableaux d'une exposition; or Kartinki s vystavki] (by Modest Mussorgsky)):
    Different combinations of instruments begin each of the four Promenades in Ravel's orchestration of this piano suite based on Russian paintings.
  Part 2 (ans: Pavane for a Dead Princess [or Pavane pour une infante defunte]):
    Ravel's orchestration of this very slow G-major piano piece of his calls for two horns pitched in G: the first horn states the opening theme, under which the other horn plays long chords with the bassoons.
  Part 3 (ans: Alborada del gracioso [or "Aubade of the Jester" or equivalent translations; accept "morning song" or equivalents in place of "aubade"; accept clown or buffoon or equivalents in place of "jester"; prompt on alborada or aubade]):
    Ravel's orchestration of this piano movement begins with plucked harp and strings mimicking a Spanish guitar. This movement is from the same collection as "A Barque on the Ocean," which he also orchestrated.

[B4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a newspaper review, Cesar Cui ("kew-EE") said that the defects of this man's opera Boris Godunov revealed its "indiscriminating, self-complacent, hasty method of composition." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Modest (Petrovich) Mussorgsky):
    Name this Russian composer of Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei (Vasilyevich) Rachmaninoff):
    Cui's review of this composer's first symphony claimed that it sounded like a student in a conservatory in Hell writing on the subject of the Seven Plagues of Egypt. That disastrous premiere led this man to quit composing for two years, until he received hypnosis therapy from Nikolai Dahl.
  Part 3 (ans: Symphonia Domestica, Op. 53 (by Richard Strauss) [or Sinfonia Domestica, Op. 53]):
    Cui said that giving musicians blank paper and letting them play whatever they wish would be better than this four-movement tone poem, whose three opening themes represent a father, mother, and child.

[B5] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This song cycle consists of four monologues by a melancholy denizen of St. Petersburg, who contemplates the darkness in his cramped apartment in the song "Within Four Walls." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sunless [or Without Sun; or Bez Solntsa]):
    Name this song cycle, which is, like its composer's Songs and Dances of Death, based on the poems of Arseny Golenishchev-Kutuzov.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky):
    Sunless and Songs and Dances of Death are two song cycles by this Russian composer of the suite Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 3 (ans: Mephistopheles):
    Mussorgsky also composed a setting of this literary character's "Song of the Flea." This character names four pieces based on a play by Nikolaus Lenau, the first of which is subtitled "Dance at the Village Inn."

[B6] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an 1872 letter addressed to Vladimir Stasov, one composer wrote "I am pregnant with something and I am giving birth," referring to this opera, which includes an oboe solo in its "Dance of the Persian Slaves." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Khovanshchina [or The Khovansky Affair]):
    Name this unfinished opera that was first completed by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. A group of Old Believers commit suicide via immolation at the end of this opera, whose title Streltsy leader is stabbed to death for leading a rebellion against Peter the Great.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    Khovanshchina was left incomplete at the alcohol-induced death of this Russian composer, who also wrote Boris Godunov and Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 3 (ans: Dmitri Shostakovich (The opera is Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District.)):
    This later composer faithfully restored cut material from Acts 2 and 5 of Khovanshchina, resulting in the version most often heard today. In an opera by this composer, Katerina and her lover Sergei strangle her husband Zinoviy.

[B7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sergei Rachmaninoff was one of this singer's mentors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Feodor Ivanovich Chaliapin ("shall-YA-pin") [or Fyodor Shalyapin]):
    Identify this Russian basso profundo who achieved international prominence for his roles as Mephistopheles in operas by Gounod ("goo-NO") and Boito. This performer's realistic acting style influenced Stanislavsky and transformed acting in operatic productions.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    Chaliapin was particularly known for his performances as Boris Godunov in an opera by this composer. He wrote Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 3 (ans: Volga boatmen [or burlaks or barge-haulers; prompt on sailors]):
    Chaliapin also performed traditional Russian folk songs, most notably a song about men with this profession that was first arranged by Mily Balakirev ("buh-LAH-kee-riff"). That song includes the refrain "ey, ukhnem!", evoking the strain of men working in this profession.

[B8] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This penultimate movement of a suite was inspired by Viktor Hartmann's drawing of a clock that resembles a grotesque mythical abode. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hut on Fowl's Legs" [or translations such as "The Hut on Hen's Legs" or "The Hut on Chicken Feet"; or Baba Yaga or Baba Yaga's Hut; or "Izbushka na kurih nozhkah" or "La cabane sur des pattes de poule" or "Die Hutte auf Huhnerfußen"; prompt on The Hut of the Witch]):
    Name this sinister C minor scherzo movement in 2/4 ("two-four") time. It opens with a dissonant falling major seventh from F-sharp to G, played in abrupt pounding low octaves, that builds up to a flight scene in a mortar.
  Part 2 (ans: Night on Bald Mountain [or A Night on the Bare Mountain; or Saint John's Night on the Bald Mountain; or Saint John's Eve; or Noch' na lysoy gore]):
    This raucous tone poem by the composer of "The Hut on Fowl's Legs" was assembled posthumously ("POSS-chuh-miss-lee") from fragments by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. It depicts the worship of Chernobog.
  Part 3 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    This Russian composer, a member of the Mighty Handful along with Rimsky-Korsakov, wrote both Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures at an Exhibition.

[B9] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Vladimir Stasov's annotations to this piece are still commonly used today, and include descriptions such as "a little gnome, clumsily running" and "a Polish cart on enormous wheels." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pictures at an Exhibition [or Pictures from an Exhibition - A Remembrance of Victor Hartmann or Kartinki s vystavki - Vosopminaniye o Viktore Gartmane]):
    Name this programmatic suite for solo piano. Viktor Hartmann's drawings were used as inspiration for its various movements.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    Pictures was written by this Russian composer of Night on Bald Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: alto saxophone [prompt on sax or saxophone]):
    In Ravel's orchestration of Pictures, this instrument plays the melody of "The Old Castle." The inventor of this instrument later combined it and its larger variants with a trumpet, tuba, and French horn respectively.

[B10] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera, composed twenty years after Venetian immigrant Catterino Cavos's work on the same subject, features Vanya's third act song "When they killed the little bird's mother." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Life for the Tsar [or Ivan Susanin; or Zhizn' za tsarya]):
    Name this historical opera by Mikhail Glinka about a patriotic hero's sacrifice in the wake of an invading Polish army.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky [or Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky]):
    A Life for the Tsar paved the way for many Russian historical operas, such as Boris Godunov by this composer of Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 3 (ans: The Maid of Pskov [or Pskovityanka]):
    The Russians under Ivan the Terrible are the ones doing the invading in this Rimsky-Korsakov opera inspired by A Life for the Tsar, in which Ivan reveals that the title princess of the title city he is besieging is, in fact, his daughter.

[B11] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The farewell scene in this opera between the title character and his son takes place after its "Polish Act." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boris Godunov):
    Name this opera that includes a scene in which a clock chimes while the title character imagines seeing a ghost. Another of its scenes includes an aria for the vagabond Varlaam.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    Boris Godunov is the only complete opera by this member of The Five. He also wrote Night on Bald Mountain and Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 3 (ans: a coronation [accept reasonable equivalents]):
    The second scene of Boris Godunov depicts one of these events in the Kremlin square. Its introduction imitates the tolling of bells.

[B12] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work's first movement alternates between 6/4 and 5/4 and a famous transcription for piano was written by Maurice Ravel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pictures at an Exhibition):
    Give this suite inspired by the works of Viktor Hartmann featuring movements such as The Gnome and The Great Gate of Kiev.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    This composer of Pictures at an Exhibition depicted a Witches' Sabbath in his Night on Bald Mountain which was popularised in the film Fantasia.
  Part 3 (ans: Limoges):
    The seventh movement of Pictures at an Exhibition is titled for a marketplace in this French town.

[B13] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer wrote two song cycles based on poems by Arseny Golenishchev-Kutuzov. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    Name this Russian composer, whose works include a tone poem inspired by "St. John's Eve" and a suite inspired by sketches drawn by Viktor Hartmann.
  Part 2 (ans: Songs and Dances of Death [or Pesni i Plyaski Smerti]):
    This last song cycle by Mussorgsky consists of four songs partly sung by the title character, including "Lullaby" and "Serenade."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Field Marshal" [or "The Commander-in-Chief" or "Polkovodets"]):
    In this final song in the cycle, the melody of the piano accompaniment is borrowed from a Polish chorale beginning "With the smoke of fires." In this song, Death sings boastfully of trampling the graves of a mass of dead men.

[B14] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Henry Wood completed this task in 1915, but refused to perform the resulting composition in deference to a better known rendition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maurice Ravel's orchestration of Pictures at an Exhibition [prompt on partial answer, accept orches-tral arrangement of Pictures at an Exhibition]):
    Name this task accomplished by a Serge Koussevitzky-commissioned piece, which uses piccolos and high strings to rep-resent "chicks in shells," and omits the movement following "Two Jews, Rich and Poor."
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky):
    The original Pictures at an Exhibition was composed for the piano by this Russian, also known for his Night on Bald Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: Leopold Anthony Stokowski 11):
    This man was dissatisfed with the Ravel arrangement, so he embarked upon his own, dumping both the Tuileries and Limoges movements because he had a suspicion that Rimsky-Korsakov might have composed them. He conducted his frst wife Olga Samarof in a performance of Tchaikovsky's frst piano concerto.

[B15] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This short allegro segment of a larger work alternates between 5/4 and 6/4 time while maintaining the key of B flat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Promenade from Pictures at an Exhibition):
    Name this first section of a suite. Its theme, which depicts the composer walking around, appears in several subsequent interludes.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Petrovich Mussorgsky):
    This composer memorialized Viktor Hartmann's paintings in Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Old Castle" [or "Il vecchio castello"]):
    In the Ravel orchestration of Pictures at an Exhibition, this section includes a saxophone solo to represent a singing minstrel at the title location. This is the second non-promenade section of the suite.

[B16] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title role of this opera was considered the signature role of both Mark Reizen and a singer surnamed Christoff who happened to share his first name with that character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boris Godunov):
    Identify this historical Russian opera in which the title usurper must contend with the consequences of his actions and the rebellion by a pretender to the throne. The "Farewell" scene is perhaps the most celebrated aria in all Russian opera.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    Boris Godunov was written by this Russian composer, though the version normally heard today was edited heavily by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
  Part 3 (ans: Khovanschina or The Khovansky Affair):
    This other Godunov opera is mainly known today for its Prelude depicting dawn on the Moskova River, as well as the "Dance of the Persian Slaves." The plot concerns a rebellion by the Straltsy and Old Believers against Peter the Great.

[B17] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title role of this opera was considered the signature role of both Mark Reizen and a singer surnamed Christoff who happened to share his first name with that character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boris Godunov):
    Identify this historical Russian opera in which the title usurper must contend with the consequences of his actions and the rebellion by a pretender to the throne. The "Farewell" scene is perhaps the most celebrated aria in all Russian opera.
  Part 2 (ans: Modest Mussorgsky):
    Boris Godunov was written by this Russian composer, though the version normally heard today was edited heavily by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
  Part 3 (ans: Khovanschina or The Khovansky Affair):
    This other Godunov opera is mainly known today for its Prelude depicting dawn on the Moskova River, as well as the "Dance of the Persian Slaves." The plot concerns a rebellion by the Straltsy and Old Believers against Peter the Great.
