=== STOCK CLUES: Fiddler on the Roof ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fiddler on the Roof
  - Two characters in this musical argue about whether a horse is six or twelve years old, which leads to all the characters getting into a large argument. [PWR]
  - The main character in this musical muses about having a staircase that goes nowhere "just for show." John Williams won his first Oscar for adapting this musical's score for a film version that featured solos by (*) Isaac Stern. [PWR]
  - A group of characters celebrating a wedding engagement begin to dance with a group of Russian soldiers in this musical, although this musical's characters are eventually expelled from their hometown of Anatevka.
  - Songs like "Tradition" and "If I Were a Rich Man" are found in, for 10 points, what musical about Tevye the Milkman and his family's life in a Russian shtetl. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Fall (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fiddler on the Roof
  - In an emotional song in this musical, characters ask "is there a canopy in store for me?" A clarinet solo in this musical accompanies a scene in which characters place bottles on their hats and begin to dance.
  - Characters argue about whether a man had delivered a horse or a mule in the opening song in this musical, which explains the roles of papas and mamas.
  - In this musical, when a marriage proposal from Lazar  Wolf is ignored, the tailor Motel exclaims that it is the "Miracle of Miracles." The songs "Sunrise, Sunset" and "Tradition" appear in this musical, which is set in Anatevka in the Pale of Settlement.
  - For 10 points, name this musical about the milkman Tevye and his Jewish family in a Russian shtetl. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fiddler on the Roof
  - Two characters in this musical sing "After twenty-five years / it's nice to know" after answering the title question of the song "Do You Love Me?" A wedding scene in this musical culminates in three dancers balancing bottles on their heads to slowly accelerating music.
  - After giving his blessing to a butcher in the song "To Life," a character in this musical instead gives the blessing to Motel  the tailor.
  - This musical ends with the main character and his family leaving Anatevka after a pogrom.
  - For 10 points, name this musical in which Tevye tries to maintain Orthodox Jewish traditions in a changing Russia, much like the title balancing musician. [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 ACF Fall (2020) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Fiddler on the Roof
  - When asked if she loves her husband, a character in this musical responds, "after twenty-five years, why talk about love right now?" This musical's protagonist recounts a dream about his wife's grandmother that is interrupted by the appearance of Frumah  Sarah.
  - The song "Sunrise, Sunset" is sung during the first of three marriages in this musical.
  - In another song from this musical, the singer claims "all day long I'd biddy-biddy-bum." This musical set in Anatevka features the sisters Chava , Tzeitel , and Hodel, and its protagonist sings "If I Were a Rich Man" and "Tradition." For 10 points, name this musical based on Yiddish stories about Tevye  the Milkman. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: violin [accept fiddle; accept Fiddler on the Roof; prompt on musical instrument]
  - One of these objects belonging to the narrator is inspected at the Phoenix of the Sky work camp at the beginning of Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress. [PWR]
  - One of these objects is used professionally by Michael, who carries out an affair with Julia in the novel An Equal Music. [PWR]
  - The farm hand Harold "studied Latin like" one of these objects in "Death of a Hired Man." Pozdnyshev rants against marriage on a train after stabbing his wife to death because of an affair with a user of one of these objects in The (*) Kreutzer Sonata.
  - The user of one of these objects appears in the title of a musical adapted from a set of Sholem Aleichem stories that focuses on Tevye and his daughters.
  - For 10 points, name this musical instrument played "on the roof" in a broadway musical. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Social Science
     Leadin: An Alan Dundes article titled "Nationalistic Inferiority Complexes" cites the Kalevala, the Brothers Grimm tales, and the Ossian legends as examples of this concept. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fakelore):
    Give this term, coined by the scholar Richard Dorson, that refers to stories like the Paul Bunyan myth that have been embellished, rewritten, or made up.
  Part 2 (ans: tradition [accept The Invention of Tradition] (The "other classic work" is "Tradition" from Fiddler on the Roof.)):
    Nationalistic fakelore was also attacked in an Eric Hobsbawm and Terence Ranger book titled The Invention of [this concept]. Another classic work says that this concept has allowed people to keep their balance "for many, many years."
  Part 3 (ans: gusle or tamburitza [accept tambura; reject "guslars"]):
    In his later career, Dorson conducted study of the folklore of the Serbian community in Gary, Indiana, where traditional songs and epic poetry were often performed accompanied by one of these two instruments. Name either.

[B2] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, identify the following about Jewish culture entering the mainstream in postwar America.
  Part 1 (ans: Herman Wouk ("woke")):
    Time magazine hailed the title character of this author's novel Marjorie Morningstar as the "American Everygirl who happens to be Jewish." He also wrote The Caine Mutiny.
  Part 2 (ans: Fiddler on the Roof):
    The title of a memoir by Wouk references this musical that familiarized Broadway audiences with life in the Pale of Settlement. Tevye ("TEV-yeh") the Dairyman sings "If I Were a Rich Man" in this musical.
  Part 3 (ans: Poland [or Republic of Poland; or Polska] (The other book is Elie Wiesel's Night.)):
    Jewish author Leon Uris's best-selling war novel Mila 18 is set in this modern-day country. In another book, the protagonist imagines God "hanging here on the gallows" while in this country.

[B3] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel titled for a person with this nickname features a class of school children chanting 'le ciel est bleu'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: milkman [the novel is by Anna Burns]):
    Give this nickname. A novel titled for a person with this nickname is narrated by an eighteen-year-old woman, who, like most of the characters in the book, is nameless. The man with this nickname in that novel stalks a middle child, who becomes 'interesting' as a result.
  Part 2 (ans: Fiddler on the Roof):
    Tevye the Milkman, the protagonist of a series of short stories by Sholem Aleichem, provided the principal character for this Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick musical. Set in the Pale of Settlement in Imperial Russia in 1905, it won nine Tony awards and inspired a 1971 film adaptation.
  Part 3 (ans: Song of Solomon):
    Milkman is the nickname of Macon Dead III, the protagonist of this Toni Morrison novel. Central to this novel is Seven Days, a group of revenge killers who murder a white person in retaliation for every murder of a black person.

[B4] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Often performed alongside the freylekh dance, this genre of music incorporates rhythm-keeping instruments such as the piano, accordion, or cimbalom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: klezmer [or klezmorim]):
    Name this genre of Ashkenazi Jewish music often performed by travelling bands or heard at weddings.
  Part 2 (ans: laughing or crying [or obvious equivalents]):
    In a traditional klezmer band, ornaments called dreydlekh are interspersed in a violin or clarinet melody intended to resemble the sound of two human activities. Name either.
  Part 3 (ans: Fiddler on the Roof):
    A klezmer-influenced score underlines this 1964 Jerry Bock musical about Tevye and his family, who struggles to maintain their Jewish identity in twentieth-century Russia.

[B5] 2012 Delta Burke (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sholom Aleichem wrote his tales of Tevye the Milkman in this language. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yiddish):
    Name this language similar to Middle High German spoken by some Eastern European Jews.
  Part 2 (ans: Fiddler on the Roof):
    The stories of Tevye provided the basis for this 1964 musical later turned into a 1971 film starring Topol as Tevye.
  Part 3 (ans: Isaac Bashevis Singer):
    This author wrote the stories "Gimpel the Fool" and "Yentl" in Yiddish.
