=== STOCK CLUES: Covent Garden ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play written in part by an author with this surname, the "dupe" Portia tells a story about an infant and two monkeys that is so bad she is attacked by her audience. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fielding [or Henry Fielding; or Sarah Fielding]):
    Give this surname of the author of The Cry alongside Jane Collier. An author with this surname used the pseudonym Scriblerus Secundus to write The Grub Street Opera, an expanded version of The Welsh Opera.
  Part 2 (ans: chorus):
    The title group of The Cry serves this dramatic function, who say their lines in unison and give insight between the action.
  Part 3 (ans: Covent Garden [prompt on the West End]):
    Sarah Fielding's brother Henry premiered a Tragedy named for this district at Drury Lane alongside The Old Debauchees. This district is where Freddy meets Henry Higgins in Pygmalion.

[B2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character causes confusion by using the phrase "done her in" when relating her suspicion that her aunt may have been murdered rather than dying of the flu. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eliza Doolittle [or Eliza Doolittle; prompt on Doolittle]):
    Name this character who shocks her companions by saying that "If a man has a bit of a conscience, it always takes him when he's sober" in explaining how some women are happy to have their husbands drink.
  Part 2 (ans: Pygmalion):
    Eliza Doolittle meets Mrs. Higgins in the third act of this George Bernard Shaw play.
  Part 3 (ans: Covent Garden [prompt on the West End of London]):
    In the third act of Pygmalion, Henry Higgins takes some time before recalling that he met Freddy Eynsford-Hill in this place. Pygmalion begins in this district of London, which contains the Drury Lane theatre.

[B3] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In early 20th century England, the theater in this location was the only opera venue to perform operas that weren't in English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Covent Garden [prompt on Covent]):
    Name this district of London which is home to, and sometimes names, the Royal Opera House.
  Part 2 (ans: subtitles [accept surtitles or supertitles]):
    English opera houses experimented with these things in the 1920s, but they did not become widespread until the '80s. Foreign language films commonly use these things rather than dubbing over dialogue.
  Part 3 (ans: La Scala [accept Teatro alla Scala]):
    This opera house, notorious for its unruly and talkative audiences, became one of the first non-English opera houses to use surtitles when it adopted them in 1985. The opera Falstaff premiered here in 1893.

[B4] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work is the basis for a ballet by Frederick Ashton that was premiered in 1968. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Enigma Variations):
    Name this work, formally titled Variations on an Original Theme, most of whose movements are labelled by initials such as G.R.S.
  Part 2 (ans: Covent Garden):
    The ballet version of the Enigma Variations was premiered by the Royal Ballet at the Royal Opera House at this London location.
  Part 3 (ans: George Frideric Handel):
    Covent Garden was notably the site of many of the premieres of this composer's operas and oratorios, including a 1743 performance of Messiah.

[B5] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Philip Hensher wrote the libretto to this opera, which ends with an electrician and a maid destroying its setting, a lavish hotel room. 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Powder Her Face):
    Name this chamber opera by Thomas Ades, which musically depicts fellatio in its treatment of the "Dirty Duchess of Argyll."
  Part 2 (ans: Covent Garden Opera House [prompt on "Royal Opera House"]):
    Another opera by Thomas Ades, The Tempest, premiered at this opera house in London. Its current music director is Sir Antonio Pappano.
  Part 3 (ans: Carmen):
    In 1947, this George Bizet opera became the first full opera to be performed at the Covent Garden Opera House. Its musical numbers include the "Toreador Song."

[B6] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Anish Kapoor and Cecil Balmond recently designed the ArcelorMittal Orbit in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London, England):
    Name this city that also contains Piccadilly Circus in its West End and Trafalgar Square.
  Part 2 (ans: Covent Gardens Square):
    Another square in London is this one laid out in piazza style by Inigo Jones. St. Paul's Church, also designed by Jones, sits on end of this square, the first modern one in London.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    While St. Paul's Church in London was designed by Inigo Jones, St. Paul's Cathedral on Ludgate Hill was designed by this man, who redesigned it after the Great Fire.
