=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Inigo Jones ===
(Questions where 'Inigo Jones' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 6 found, 32 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Anne [or Anna]
  - A queen of this name supported the Occasional Conformity Act which prohibited Roman Catholics from taking communion in a different church to become eligible for public office.
  - The first Protestant coronation in the Kingdom of Scotland was for a queen with this name; Inigo Jones designed the Queen's House at Greenwich for that first queen consort of both England and Scotland with this name.
  - (*) James VI initiated a series of witch trials after returning from his marriage to a princess with this name from Denmark.
  - The death of a queen of this name established a personal union between Great Britain and Hanover.
  - The American theater of the War of the Spanish Succession is named for a Queen regnant with this name.
  - For 10 points, give this name of the first Queen of Great Britain who reigned during the Acts of Union.

[TM2] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Charles I of England
  - A van Aelst heir sold this man seven of Raphael's original cartoons depicting the Acts of the Apostles.
  - This man commissioned a work depicting an eagle carrying his father upwards toward Minerva, who awaits with a triumphal crown.
  - That work, depicting the apotheosis of this man's father, was commissioned for the ceiling of an Inigo Jones designed (*) Banqueting House at Whitehall.
  - In another painting, Endymion Porter holds a horse next to this man, who is "at the Hunt." This monarch patronized both Peter Paul Rubens and Anthony van Dyck.
  - Paul Delaroche painted soldiers insulting, for 10 points, what English monarch prior to his execution during the English Civil War?

[TM3] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: stage design [or set design; or scenic design; prompt on theater or equivalents]
  - A David Hockney work in this medium depicts a mental institution as a tiered gallery containing black-clad men wearing bizarre masks.
  - Another artist in this medium has created works depicting a giant rook chess piece and a stately Edwardian mansion filled with dirt.
  - That artist, Es Devlin, won its prestigious Linbury Prize.
  - Pablo Picasso included an arch topped by a lyre and depictions of skyscrapers in a piece of this type.
  - Before turning to architecture, Inigo Jones revolutionized this kind of art in England by introducing Italian innovations.
  - A minimalist piece in this medium was inspired by a Shaker rocking chair and created by Isamu Noguchi as part of his long-running collaboration with Martha Graham.
  - For 10 points, name this type of artwork that is used to accompany works like the opera The Rake's Progress, the ballet Parade, and the play Hamlet.

[TM4] 2016 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: architecture [or architectura; prompt on "design" or "building" or "buildings" or equivalents]
  - A treatise on this subject, which contains descriptions of the Sforzinda dedicated to Francesco Sforza and is preserved in an illuminated manuscript called the Codex Magliabechiano (MAH-lee-uh-bek-ee-AH-no), was written by the Florentine theorist Filarete.
  - The distinction between reasoning, or rationacio, and practice, or fabrica, is made in another treatise on this subject that preserves the story of Archimedes's discovery of the displacement method of testing the purity of gold.
  - A set of (*) "parametric" rules for this subject were set forth in a 1570 treatise that became popular in England after a trip taken by the Earl of Arundel and Inigo Jones, and was admired by Thomas Jefferson.
  - Leon Battista Alberti and Vitruvius wrote treatises on, for 10 points, what discipline, the subject of "four books" by Andrea Palladio that contain the tenets by which Palladio designed the Villa Rotunda?

[TM5] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Frederick V [or Frederick the Winter King]
  - This ruler intentionally aggravated Bishop Sotern by sending an army to destroy the Udenheim fortress built near his borders.
  - The fanatic "mad halberstadter" Christian the Younger raised an army for this ruler, who lost his allies' support in the Treaty of Ulm.
  - This ruler commissioned Salomon de Caus and Inigo Jones to build him a garden called the "eighth wonder of the world." James I of England formed an ill-considered (*) alliance with this man by allowing him to marry his daughter, Elizabeth Stuart.
  - This father of Prince Rupert of the Rhine was crowned in Prague in 1619 and subsequently attacked by the forces of the Catholic League under Count von Tilly.
  - For 10 points, name this Protestant king from the Thirty Years' War whose defeat at the Battle of White Mountain ended his brief rule over Bohemia.

[TM6] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: staircases [accept anything involving stairs or steps]
  - One of these structures near the Doge's Palace in Venice is flanked by large statues of Mars and Neptune, which is why it's called the "Giant's" one.
  - Inigo Jones designed the first centrally unsupported one of these structures in England for the Queen's House, the so-called "Tulip" one.
  - Gaudi placed a lizard fountain in the center of one of these structures in the (*) Park Guell.
  - Bartolomeo Ammannati carried out plans for one of these structures, made of sandstone, which is three-pronged and sits in the vestibule below a structure's reading room.
  - For 10 points, name these architectural features, one of which Michelangelo designed for the Laurentian Library.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Colen Campbell's Vitruvius Britannicus inspired the "neo" form of this architectural style, resulting in buildings like the Brick House in Newport. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Palladian architecture [accept neo-Palladian architecture]):
    Name this architectural style whose earliest English example was the Queen's House. Inigo Jones was an architect in this style.
  Part 2 (ans: White House):
    Neo-Palladian rustication was used in the design of the ground floor of this residence. This residence designed by James Hoban is located on 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
  Part 3 (ans: Ireland [or Republic of Ireland; or Eire; or Poblacht na hEireann]):
    The White House's Palladian architecture was inspired by Richard Cassel's work in this country. Edward Lovett Pearce's Palladian buildings in this country include its former Parliament House.

[BM2] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many of this man's buildings had a granary above the main bedrooms owing to the Venetian custom of storing goods in attics rather than marshy basements. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Palladio):
    Identify this Renaissance architect who wrote The Four Books on Architecture. He shouldn't be confused with Leon Battista Alberti.
  Part 2 (ans: Villa La Rotonda [prompt on Villa Almerico-Capra]):
    This Palladian Villa built for Paolo Almerico has a temple pediment for each of its four facades. Thomas Jefferson based Monticello on this building.
  Part 3 (ans: England [accept Great Britain or the United Kingdom]):
    Chiswick House is an example of a style of Palladian architecture named for this country. Inigo Jones helped bring Palladianism to this country and designed its Banqueting House at Whitehall.

[BM3] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One possible origin of the term "green room" comes from a renovation of this theater in 1662, which added a dressing room of that color. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cockpit Theatre [or Cockpit-in-Court; accept Phoenix Theatre] (Originally used for cockfighting.)):
    Name this venue which Christopher Beeston converted from its original violent purpose into a theater for the Queen Anne's Men. Inigo Jones used it as the model for his design of a similarly-named theater in Whitehall Palace.
  Part 2 (ans: Drury Lane):
    The Cockpit was one of the first theaters located by this London road, though it was later forced out of business by a different theater named for this road. In a nursery rhyme, the Muffin Man lives by this road.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Pepys's diary [accept equivalents mentioning Pepys and his diary or journal]):
    This work's narrator often goes to the Cockpit to watch plays, including Wit Without Money by John Fletcher. This work was first published in two parts in 1825 since it was written in a shorthand called tachygraphy.

[BM4] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2015, Chi-Chi Nwanoku founded Europe's first orchestra for black and minority ethnic musicians, Chineke! ("chee-NECK-eh"), based in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London):
    Name this city where black classical musicians like Fela Sowande, Rudolph Dunbar, George Bridgetower, and Samuel Coleridge-Taylor trained and flourished, performing at venues like the Barbican Centre, Wigmore Hall, and Royal Albert Hall, which hosts the annual Proms.
  Part 2 (ans: Sheku Kanneh-Mason [prompt on Sheku or Sheku effect; prompt on partial answer]):
    This 2016 BBC Young Musician of the Year's passionate playing at the 2018 royal wedding caused a cello sensation in Britain. He and his 6 prodigy siblings, all students at London's Royal Academy, played a medley on Britain's Got Talent.
  Part 3 (ans: theorbo ("thee-OR-bo") [or tiorbo; or tiorba; or theorbe; or chitarrone; do not accept or prompt on "archlute"] (In Rome, Johannes Hieronymus Kapsberger was nicknamed "the German theorbist.")):
    In 1610s London consorts, the viola da gamba and lute were popular, but when Inigo Jones tried to import this tall re-entrant bass lute with 14 courses and 2 pegboxes, customs confiscated it as a suspected Popish Plot. Visee and Kapsberger were virtuosos of this powerful instrument invented by the G

[BM5] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several non-English painters spent part of their careers in England. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Artemisia Gentileschi):
    This Italian artist moved to London after her father Orazio became a court painter of Charles I. She is best known for her painting Judith Beheading Holofernes.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens):
    While in England, this man painted the ceiling of Inigo Jones's Banqueting House at Whitehall. This artist depicted himself and his first wife under a honeysuckle bower and also painted The Three Graces.
  Part 3 (ans: Titian (or Tiziano Vecelli)):
    This painter's portrait of Philip II helped Philip win the hand of Mary I. A brown dog and a servant rummaging through a chest appear in the background of his Venus of Urbino.

[BM6] 2015 PACE NSC (2015) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architectural form was transplanted to England with Inigo Jones's design for Covent Garden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: piazza [do not accept the Spanish "plaza"]):
    Give this term for an Italian public space, usually surrounded by a colonnade. Michelangelo's design for one called the Campidoglio was adapted for New York's Lincoln Center, and one called Navona houses the Fountain of the Four Rivers.
  Part 2 (ans: Gialorenzo Bernini):
    The Fountain of the Four Rivers was designed by this Baroque architect who also created the Piazza San Pietro.
  Part 3 (ans: ellipse [or oval; do not accept or prompt on "circle"]):
    The Piazza San Pietro, along with the pavement design at the Campidoglio, is in this favorite shape of Baroque architects. Borromini's San Carlo alle Quattro Fontane features this shape in its plan.

[BM7] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first recorded performance of Shakespeare's The Tempest was hosted at this complex, which began existence as York Place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Palace at Whitehall):
    Name this complex which mostly burned down in 1689. Its only surviving element is a neoclassical banqueting house designed by Inigo Jones.
  Part 2 (ans: Vitruvius [or Marcus Vitruvius Pollio, or The Vitruvian Man]):
    Jones pioneered the use of the system of proportions advocated by this Roman architect, the namesake of a Leonardo da Vinci drawing and the author of De Architectura.
  Part 3 (ans: Archimedes of Syracuse):
    De Architectura is also the first written source of the story of this man's discovery of the principle of buoyancy, which reportedly prompted him to leap out of a tub shouting "Eureka!"

[BM8] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about the life of the woman born Margaret Lucas, who among other things wrote the proto-science fiction work The Blazing World, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Cavendish):
    Lucas married a member of this family, who was made Marquess of Newscastle-upon-Tyne and appointed to educate the future Charles II. Another man with this surname was killed in the Phoenix Park Murders while serving as Chief Secretary for Ireland.
  Part 2 (ans: Queen Henrietta Maria of France [or Henriette Marie]):
    Lucas served this English queen, who commissioned Inigo Jones to create the Queen's House at Greenwich. She was the mother of Charles II and James II.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great or Louis The Grand Monarch or Louis Le Grand Monarque or Louis the Sun King; prompt on "Sun King"]):
    Lucas traveled with Queen Henrietta Maria into exile at the court of this French king. He got his country into the War of the Spanish Succession.

[BM9] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Anish Kapoor and Cecil Balmond recently designed the ArcelorMittal Orbit in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London, England):
    Name this city that also contains Piccadilly Circus in its West End and Trafalgar Square.
  Part 2 (ans: Covent Gardens Square):
    Another square in London is this one laid out in piazza style by Inigo Jones. St. Paul's Church, also designed by Jones, sits on end of this square, the first modern one in London.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    While St. Paul's Church in London was designed by Inigo Jones, St. Paul's Cathedral on Ludgate Hill was designed by this man, who redesigned it after the Great Fire.

[BM10] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Three men on horseback hold spears pointing towards the central action of this painting, which includes a shirtless, scared man thrusting a sword. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt):
    Name this painting in which the two main animals are positioned on top of each other, one in black, and the other in shades of olive and grey, both with large teeth pointed towards the viewer.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens):
    The Hippopotamus and Crocodile Hunt was painted by this artist of The Massacre of the Innocents and several paintings of Marie de Medici who is known for his fleshy nudes.
  Part 3 (ans: Banqueting House):
    Rubens spent time in England to paint a nine-paneled Apotheosis of James I for the ceiling of this building found in the Palace of Whitehall. It was designed by Inigo Jones.

[BM11] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect was influenced by Palladio when he designed the Banqueting House, Whitehall in a classical style. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Inigo Jones):
    Name this great English architect.
  Part 2 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens):
    James I got this man to paint the ceiling of the Banqueting House by promising to knight him. After he got knighted and finished the ceiling, he infuriated James by going home again.
  Part 3 (ans: Queen's House):
    Anne of Denmark, the wife of James I, commissioned Inigo Jones to design this building in Greenwich. He put in a beautiful tulip staircase.
