=== STOCK CLUES: Rilke ===
Tossup questions: 17 found, 64 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 36 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: angels [or engel; accept "the angelic orders" or "The Angels"] (The first line refers to "The Angels" by Rilke. The second line refers to Reading Rilke: Reflections on the Problems of Translation.)
  - In a poem, these creatures are said to "all resemble one another" and have "tired mouths / And luminous illimitable souls." William H.
  - Gass wrote that these creatures are "what the poet would be if he could free himself from human distraction" in a book of "Reflections on the Problems of Translation." One of these creatures is told in another poem to pluck an herb before a reference to an urn inscribed with "Subrisio Saltat." These creatures are invoked before the line "Where are the days of Tobias." An author wrote, "Every [one of these creatures] is terrifying" in a poem written while he was a guest of Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis.
  - For 10 points, Rainer Maria Rilke asks, "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among" the orders of what creatures in The Duino Elegies? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: elegy [accept "Marienbad Elegy" or "Marienbader Elegie"; accept Duino Elegies or Duineser Elegien; accept elegiac couplet or elegiac distich] (The Duino Elegies are by Rainer Maria Rilke. The author is Johann Wolfgang von Goethe.)
  - This question can be read to any team. [PWR]
  - Friedrich Schiller likened the form typically used in this poetic genre to the water in a fountain rising and then falling.
  - A poem in this genre apostrophizes "Father Aether," who is among the Greek gods that arrive among humanity.
  - The second part of a "Trilogy of Passion" is a poem in this genre whose speaker says that the immortals "deserted me, and hurled me to the ground." Poems in this genre include Friedrich Holderlin's "Bread and Wine," as well as one inspired by the 19-year-old Ulrike von Levetzow  declining a proposal made by a 74-year-old author in the spa town of Marienbad .
  - A poem in this genre asks, "But who are they, tell me, these Travellers" and describes TheFamily of Saltimbanques.
  - For 10 points, the line "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" opens 10 poems in what genre named for Duino Castle? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - The narrator of a novel by this author recounts how an iron amulet became embedded in the rotting chest of the mad king Charles VI. [PWR]
  - Norton cofounder M. [PWR]
  - D. [PWR]
  - Herter translated a novel by this author in which a Danish nobleman moves to a squalid flat in Paris to begin a career as a writer. [PWR]
  - This author wrote "No one can advise or help you...
  - Go into yourself" in a series of correspondences with Franz Xaver (*) Kappus [kah-pus].
  - An apparent voice in the wind inspired this author to begin a cycle finished eight years later in a creative "storm." This author of The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge [mal-tuh law-rids brih-guh] and Letters to a Young Poet used a stay at a castle near Trieste to write a poem that begins "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" For 10 points, name this poet of The Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 CLEAN (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria  Rilke (The first and fifth line refers to  Sonnets to Orpheus ; the second line refers to the  Book of Hours )
  - One poem by this man ends by saying "where there was / just barely a hut to receive it ... with an entrance whose gatepost trembled- / there you crafted a temple for their hearing." A collection by this author includes sections titled The Book of Monastic Life and The Book of Poverty and Death.
  - The image of an "emotion / that almost dismays us / when a joyful thing falls" ends a poem by this author that describes Lament leading a boy to the (*) Mountains of Primal Grief.
  - This author opened one collection with the line "There rose a Tree.
  - O pure transcendence!" and asked "have you remembered / Gaspara Stampa sufficiently yet?" in another work.
  - This author's most famous collection proclaims "Every Angel is terror" and opens by asking "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic / Orders?" For 10 points, name this German poet of the Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke (The first two sentences refer to "The Spanish Dancer.")
  - A poem by this author describes its title character's "naked arms" like "rattlesnakes" and depicts a dark room that "all at once is completely fire." A woman "fans her dress into passionate flames" in a poem by this author.
  - A poem by this author describes an object that "glistens like a wild beast's fur" and is "suffused with brilliance inside." That poem by this author describes a "dark center where procreation flared" of an object with "eyes like ripening fruit." This author asked "Have you remembered Gaspara Stampa sufficiently yet?" in one poem and stated "You must change your life" to end another.
  - A collection by this author opens "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?" For 10 points, name this German poet of "Archaic Torso of Apollo" and the Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke ("RYE-ner muh-REE-uh RIL-kuh")
  - This author wrote a poem describing a woman who "sat at tea just like the others," but followed the others slowly as if, on the "farther side," she "might not be walking any more, but flying." He wrote a poem that describes how "an image enters through the tensioned stillness of the limbs and in the heart ceases to be," when "the curtain of the pupil soundlessly parts." This author of "Going Blind" wrote a poem likening the title individual to "a sulphur match," which "whitely, before it comes aflame, to every side darts switching tongues." He wrote a poem about a (*) creature to whom "it seems there are a thousand bars and behind a thousand bars no world." This author of "The Spanish Dancer" wrote a poem that declares, "we cannot know his legendary head with eyes like ripening fruit," which ends with "You must change your life." For 10 points, name this modernist poet whose thing-poems include "The Panther" and "The Archaic Torso of Apollo." [PWR,GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - In one poem, this author wrote "I would like to step out of my heart / and go walking beneath the enormous sky" and "I think that the star / glittering above me / has been dead for a million years." This author of "Lament" included the lines "when you go to bed, don't leave bread or milk / on the table: it attracts the dead" in a series of poems beginning with a stanza that ends "And all is silent, and from this silence arises / New beginnings, intimations, changes." Those poems, along with one that tells readers to "erect no gravestone" for the title figure, belong to a (*) 55 sonnet cycle.
  - Another poem by this author claims "beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror," references Gaspara Stampa, and asks "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" For 10 points, name this author of Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke ("RILL-kuh")
  - Cy Twombly quoted from a set of French poems about roses by this author on the right side of each painting in his Rose series. [PWR]
  - This poet punctuates descriptions of animals spinning past in a "blind and breathless game" with the line "And now and then there's a white elephant" in his poem "The Carousel." A poem by this author invokes the image of a "ritual dance around a center" of "mighty will" next to a "thousand" "constantly passing (*) bars" as the title creature "paces in cramped circles." Ocean Vuong's "Torso of Air" responds to this poet's line "You must change your life." This author's "thing-poems" include one titled "Archaic Torso of Apollo." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Panther" who asked "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" in the Duino Elegies. [PWR,GIVE]

[T9] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - A poem by this author ends by noting that "An image enters in" before it "plunges into the heart and is gone." This poet dedicated his Book of Hours to Lou Andreas-Salome. [PWR]
  - This poet became fascinated by the image of a panther while visiting a zoo to find inspiration at the instruction of his mentor, Auguste Rodin. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about "new beginnings, intimations and changes" which arise from silence in one poem, and commanded (*) "you must change your life" after describing the dazzling "curved breast" of a statue.
  - This poet of "Archaic Torso of Apollo" wrote to Franz Xaver Kappus in his Letters to a Young Poet and opened one poem with "Who if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?" For 10 points, identify this German poet of Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - This poet drew from Kleist's essay "On the Marionette Theater" for a poem in which the speaker declares "I don't want these half-completed masks, rather the Doll." This poet noted "He who has not built his house, will not start now" in a poem beginning "Lord it is time.
  - Great was the summer feast." A poem by this author begins by asking "But who are they, tell me, these Travellers?" before describing the (*) painting Family of Saltimbanques.
  - Stephen Mitchell's translation of a poem by this author of "Autumn Day" imagines "eyes like ripening fruit" and ends "You must change your life." A cycle by this poet contains the line "Every angel is terror" and begins "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" For 10 points, name this German poet of "An Archaic Torso of Apollo" and The Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - The narrator of one this author's works tells the story of the False Dmitri, who was happy as an impostor, until he is believed to be the real Dmitri and feels trapped in the identity of another person.
  - One of this author's title characters watches doctors pierce the heart of his father's corpse, following a provision in that father's will, and recalls his chamberlain uncle being carried around by servants while dying of dropsy.
  - This author wrote that we must learn to use solitude, because solitude is difficult, and we must trust in what is difficult, in the seventh of ten (*) posthumously collected and published missives. [PWR]
  - He declared that "Nobody can advise or help you.
  - [...] Go into yourself" in that correspondence with Franz Xaver Kappus.
  - His only novel is the fictional diary of the title Danish poet in Paris.
  - For 10 points, name this German author of Letters to a Young Poet and the novel The Notebooks of Malte Laurits Brigge. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]
  - In one epistle, this writer discusses finding the perfect language to compose a "Hymn to the Sun" so that one can "speak a few degrees more deeply ... where silence reigns." In another letter, this writer urges a military cadet "dig into yourself for a deeper answer" as an answer to the question "must I write?" Stephen Mitchell translated a poem by this author with the lines "His vision, from the constantly passing bars, has grown so weary that it cannot hold anything else." Another poem by this author maintains "beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror" and asks the reader if he has "remembered Gaspara Stampa sufficiently?" At the beginning of that poem, this author of "The Panther" asks "who among the angelic orders would hear my cry?" For 10 points, name this author of Letters to a Young Poet and The Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T13] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - This poet wrote "I want my free will and want it accompanying the path which leads to action" before declaring "I am too much alone in this world." Another poem by him begins with the lines "Spring has come again.
  - The earth is like a child that knows poems by heart." That sonnet was a part of a larger work of his written in Chateau de Muzot and dedicated to (*) Vera Knoop. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about a statue whose "legendary head with eyes like ripening fruit" is lost in a poem that ends with the line "you must change your life," "The Archaic Torso of Apollo." His best known work asks "who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?" For 10 points, name the German poet of Sonnets to Orpheus and The Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T14] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - This poet described a "quickly disappearing photograph in my more slowly disappearing hand" in his "Portrait of My Father as a Young Man." One of his poems recounts how "the creatures of stillness crowed from the bright unbound forest," telling its addressee, "You built a temple deep inside their hearing." This poet wrote that "beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror" in one of his most notable poems.
  - He opened that poem by asking, "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" For 10 points, name this German poet of The Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T15] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - In one poem by this author, a certain woman is described as being "already loosened like long hair" and "already root," and does not recognize her lover.
  - Another of his poems begins by declaring "Lord, it is time" before recalling the summer's greatness.
  - This poet wrote a collection of short poems which he referred to as "thing poems," or Dinggedichte.
  - This author of "Orpheus.
  - Eurydice.
  - Hermes" and "Autumn Day" wrote about an animal who "paces in cramped circles" in a cage in one poem.
  - One of his works begins "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the angelic orders?" This author of "The Panther" wrote a series of 55 poems dedicated to a mythological musician, as well as a series of ten poems named after a castle near Trieste.
  - For 10 points, name this author of New Poems, Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T16] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Rainer Maria Rilke
  - A novel by this man includes a passage in which the narrator argues that the poetry he had written is not real poetry because it was not based on life experience.
  - That novel ends with an interpretation of the story of the prodigal son which claims that he wanted to find out what it is like not to be loved.
  - Another prose work by this man praises the works of the Danish author Jens Peter Jacobsen, who influenced this author.
  - This author of a series of ten letters to Franz Kappus, Letters to a Young Poet, was greatly admired by William Gass, who wrote a book about "reading" this author.
  - He wrote about a woman who whirls around surrounded by fire before stamping it out in one poem, and he wrote about an animal who "paces in cramped circles" in its cage in another poem.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Spanish Dancer" and "The Panther" as well as the collections Sonnets to Orpheus and Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Rainier Maria Rilke
  - This poet wrote "And suddenly, everything is completely fire" as a stand-alone stanza before the title figure turns "all at once with daring art" in the poem "The Spanish Dancer." In another poem, he commented "We do not know his unheard of head" and demanded "You must change your life." This poet of "The Archaic Torso of Apollo" worked as Rodin's secretary and wrote a poem beginning, "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?" For 10 points, name this German poet of Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem whose title mentions this artist, the speaker permutes words in lines like "Would he like it if Napoleon" and "At first exactly," and ends by claiming that "History teaches." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pablo Picasso [or Pablo Ruiz Picasso] (The poem in the lead-in is by Gertrude Stein.)):
    Name this artist. Another poem focused on a work by this artist talks about "the great capital letter of Being" and begins by asking, "But who are they, tell me, these Travellers...?"
  Part 2 (ans: Duino Elegies [or Duineser Elegien] (The first poem is the 5th Elegy.)):
    A poem addressing Picasso's Famille des Saltimbanques ("fa-MEE day sal-tam-BONK") appears in this collection. The first poem in this collection claims that "beauty is nothing but / the beginning of terror."
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    This German author asked "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?" in his Duino Elegies.

[B2] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This set of works likens the process of appreciating loneliness to puberty before stating "What we need, after all, is only: solitude." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Letters to a Young Poet [or Briefe an einen jungen Dichter]):
    Name this collection of ten writings, one of which advises "Go into yourself. Find out the reason" when attempting to answer the question "Must I write?"
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    Letters to a Young Poet is by this poet of "Archaic Torso of Apollo."
  Part 3 (ans: Marina Tsvetaeva AND Boris Pasternak [or Marina Ivanovna Tsvetaeva and Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    In the summer of 1926, Rilke traded letters with these two poets, who were semi-romantic long-term correspondents. One of them wrote the poem "New Year's Greetings" in honor of Rilke and many poems praising the White Army, while the other wrote a line about "life - in a flood of spring rain."

[B3] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The reader is told to "erect no gravestone to [this figure's] memory" in a collection named for him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orpheus [accept Sonnets to Orpheus or Die Sonette an Orpheus]):
    Name this title figure of a poetry collection dedicated to Vera Knoop that contains the line "There rose a tree. O pure transcendence!"
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke ("RILL-kuh")):
    This author of Sonnets to Orpheus asked "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?" in the first of his Duino Elegies.
  Part 3 (ans: Marina Tsvetaeva ("svit-TAH-yih-vuh") [or Marina Tsvetayeva]):
    Rilke was compared to Orpheus in a letter by this poet. Rilke took part in a three-way correspondence with Boris Pasternak and this Russian poet, who dedicated The Girlfriend to Sophie Parnok.

[B4] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After the death of his rich steel tycoon father, Ludwig Wittgenstein gave the magazine editor Ludwig von Ficker 100,000 crowns to give to poor Austrian artists, 20,000 of which was given to this poet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]):
    Name this Austrian poet who received the money during the decade he spent sporadically writing the Duino Elegies.
  Part 2 (ans: Georg Trakl):
    20,000 also went to this Austrian poet, who wrote to Wittgenstein while he was hospitalized and suffering from depression due to the horrors of World War I, an experience that led him to write the poem "Grodek."
  Part 3 (ans: Elias Canetti):
    Wittgenstein chose Ficker after reading an article by Karl Kraus in Die Fackel, or The Torch, a magazine that inspired the title of The Torch in My Ear, a section of this author's memoir. This Bulgarian-born author also wrote the novel Auto-da-Fe.

[B5] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's experiments with opium during a passage through the Suez Canal inspired his gloomy poem "Opiario." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alvaro de Campos [prompt on Fernando Pessoa]):
    Name this literary alter ego with a fictional biography as a polemic Glasgow-educated sailor and devotee of Walt Whitman. Poems credited to this author include "Ode of Triumph" and "The Tobacco Shop."
  Part 2 (ans: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or Republica Portuguesa]):
    Alvaro de Campos was one of the "heteronyms" used by Fernando Pessoa, a poet from this country. Pessoa's heteronym Ricardo Reis was fictionalized in a novel by another author from this country, Jose Saramago.
  Part 3 (ans: Orpheus [accept Orpheu or Orfeu; accept Sonnets to Orpheus] (Rainer Maria Rilke wrote the Sonnets to Orpheus.)):
    Pessoa published the Alvaro de Campos poem "Opiario" in a modernist journal named for this figure. Another poet wrote 55 poems dedicated to this figure during a "creative storm" at the Chateau de Muzot ("moo-ZO").

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The works of this author and the Bible were the two "indispensable" books of a poet who claimed that reading him could be one of the most "important threads among all the threads of your experiences." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: J. P. Jacobsen ("YOCK-up-sun") [or Jens Peter Jacobsen]):
    Name this author of Niels Lyhne ("nils LOO-nuh"), whom Rainer Maria Rilke extravagantly praised in Letters to a Young Poet.
  Part 2 (ans: sculpture [or sculptors; accept marble sculpture or bronze sculpture; prompt on plastic art or three-dimensional art or 3D art] (Rilke served as Auguste Rodin's secretary. The poem is "Archaic Torso of Apollo.")):
    Rilke's two "masters" were Jacobsen ("YOCK-up-sun") and an artist in this medium whom he served as a secretary in Paris. A work in this medium is the subject of a poem by him that ends "You must change your life."
  Part 3 (ans: The Book of Hours [or Das Stunden-Buch]):
    Rilke wrote the first drafts of this collection in a copy of Jacobsen's Novellas. The line "I live my life in circles that grow wide / And endlessly unroll" begins this collection's first section on "monastic life."

[B7] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet who wrote about these things after seeing some made by Lotte Pritzel developed the idea of the "thing-soul," when these things escape their user's mastery. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: puppets [or marionettes; or dolls; or toys]):
    Name these things. In an essay framed as a dialogue, a dancer says these things are better than people because their "soul" can appear at "some point other than the center of gravity at the moment."
  Part 2 (ans: Heinrich von Kleist):
    That essay, "On the Marionette Theatre," is by this German romanticist who wrote the play The Broken Jug and the novella Michael Koolhaas.
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    After gazing intently at a puppet stage, the speaker of this poet's fourth Duino Elegy declares "finally, a real play!" when an angel brings the puppets to life.

[B8] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: If you're still playing quizbowl, you must change your life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke [accept Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke, I guess]):
    This poet wrote that "you must change your life" in his Archaic Torso of Apollo, as well as the Duino Elegies.
  Part 2 (ans: Sonnets to Orpheus):
    Rilke wrote about "new beginnings, intimations, changes" in this collection of his, which was completed around the same time as his Duino Elegies. Rilke dedicated this poetry collection to his daughter's friend.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Baudelaire (The first poem is "The Swan". The second poem is "To the Reader", which is the first poem in Fleurs du mal.)):
    This poet wrote about how "the shape of a city changes... quickly, alas!" in a poem which compares its title being to "a man in exile". Another poem by this author describes Trismegist lying on a pillow and declares that "our souls have not enough boldness."

[B9] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this book wrote "ask yourself in the most silent hour of your night: must I write?" in response to receiving some poems. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Letters to a Young Poet [or Briefe an Einen Jungen Dichter]):
    Name this book that advises a cadet training at a military academy "Nobody can advise you and help you, nobody. There is only one way. Go into yourself."
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]):
    Modern audiences often view this author's Letters to a Young Poet as a self-help book. This author wrote "You must change your life" to close his poem "Archaic Torso of Apollo."
  Part 3 (ans: "Requiem for a Friend" [or "Requiem for a Woman"; or "Requiem: Fur Eine Freundin"]):
    Rilke addresses the reader with the lines "practice on this: letting each other go. For holding on comes easily" from this poem dedicated to his friend, the artist Paula Modersohn-Becker. You may give the full title or just the first word..

[B10] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Two answers required. In Joanna Macy's translation of the sonnet "Go to the Limits of Your Longing," God commands "Let everything happen to you," then lists these two concepts and says "Just keep going. No feeling is final." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beauty AND terror [accept Schonheit or Schone in place of "beauty"; accept Schrecken or Schrecklichen in place of "terror"]):
    Identify these two concepts. An elegy says that the first of these two concepts "serenely disdains to annihilate us" after defining it as "nothing but the beginning" of the second of them, "which we are still just able to endure."
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    This German-language poet meditated upon beauty and terror throughout his ten mystical Duino Elegies.
  Part 3 (ans: Letters to a Young Poet [or Briefe an einen jungen Dichter]):
    Rilke wrote "there is much beauty everywhere" and described "our terrors [and] abysses" in this set of epistles addressed to the cadet Franz Xaver Kappus, whom he advises to "go into yourself" and "live the questions now."

[B11] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The works of Rainer Maria Rilke have spawned a variety of poetic responses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: confessional poetry [or Confessionalism]):
    John Berryman flatly asserts "Rilke was a jerk" in an entry of his Dream Songs, a landmark collection in this poetic style that emerged during the 1950s. Its name was coined in a review of Robert Lowell's Life Studies.
  Part 2 (ans: W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]):
    Rilke's "thing-poems" prompted this writer to call him the "Santa Claus of loneliness." This writer's review "Rilke in English" was published four days after the title date of his poem about World War II, "September 1, 1939."
  Part 3 (ans: variations [or variations on a theme; or theme and variations; accept "Variations on a Theme by Rilke" or "Variations on a Theme by William Carlos Williams"] (The second poem is by Kenneth Koch.)):
    Denise Levertov's many Rilke-inspired works include two poems whose title begins with this word. In a parody of William Carlos Williams whose title begins with this word, the speaker chops down a house and sprays some hollyhocks with lye.

[B12] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Inspired by his visits to a Paris zoo, this poet described a caged animal's "ritual dance around a center / in which a mighty will stands paralyzed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke ("RILL-kuh")):
    Name this poet whose friendship with Auguste Rodin was the subject of Rachel Corbett's biography You Must Change Your Life, which takes its title from one of this author's poems.
  Part 2 (ans: eyes [or Augen; accept pupils]):
    In his poem "Archaic Torso of Apollo," Rilke compares these objects to "ripening fruit." In "The Panther," the curtains of these objects "[lift], / quietly" and "An image enters in."
  Part 3 (ans: letters [accept Letters to a Young Poet or Briefe an einen jungen Dichter]):
    Corbett recalls reading Rilke's writings in this form which he addressed to the "Young Poet" Franz Xaver Kappus. Epistolary novels are traditionally composed of texts in this form.

[B13] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, a Paris resident originally from this country muses on the noble death of his grandfather and abruptly leaves the Salpetriere ("sall-pet-tree-AIR") Hospital while waiting to undergo electroshock therapy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Denmark [or Kingdom of Denmark; or Kongeriget Danmark] (The authors are Martin Anderson Nexø and Karl Adolph Gjellerup.)):
    Name this country, the hub of a naturalist movement called the "Modern Breakthrough," which included the authors of Pelle the Conqueror and The Pilgrim Kamanita.
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke ("RYE-ner muh-REE-uh RIL-kuh") [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]):
    J. P. Jacobsen's Modern Breakthrough novel Niels Lyhne ("LUNE-uh") influenced this author's The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge ("MELT-uh LAO-rids BRIG-ih"). This author wrote of always carrying Jacobsen's novels with him in his Letters to a Young Poet.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This other German author cited Jacobsen as having had the greatest influence on his style. His novels include The Magic Mountain.

[B14] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem in this collection describes "the farthest billboard" as "pasted with posters for Deathless." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Duino Elegies [or Duineser Elegien]):
    Name this collection. In that poem in this collection, a "Lament" points out constellations like "the Burning Book" and "the Garland of Fruit" visible from the "City of Grief."
  Part 2 (ans: (Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef) Rainer Maria Rilke):
    This German-language poet wrote the Duino Elegies.
  Part 3 (ans: Letters to a Young Poet [or Briefe an einen jungen Dichter]):
    Rilke also wrote this collection of advice for Franz Xavier Kappus. In it, he encourages the addressee to "love your solitude and try to sing out with the pain it causes you."

[B15] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In "Torso of Air," Ocean Vuong described a "body-sealed with bruises" and responded to this line by proclaiming "suppose you do [accomplish the goal of this line]." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "You must change your life"):
    Name this line, which inspired the ending line of Mary Oliver's "The Swan." This line ends a poem about an object "with eyes like ripening fruit."
  Part 2 (ans: Duino Elegies [or Duineser Elegien]):
    The first poem in this collection by the same author declares that "beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror" and asks whether you "have remembered Gaspara Stampa sufficiently yet."
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Rilke [or Rainer Maria Rilke; or Rene Maria Rilke]):
    This German poet declared that "you must change your life" in his poem "The Archaic Torso of Apollo." This poet was inspired to write the first Duino Elegy after looking at the Adriatic from Duino Castle.

[B16] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the tenth and last of these poems, a personified Lament leads a young man through the "landscape of Lamentation" before leaving him to climb the "mountains of primeval pain". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Duino Elegies [or Duineser Elegien]):
    Name this cycle of poems written in a namesake castle by the Adriatic. The first of them declares "Beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror".
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    The Duino Elegies are by this Austrian-born poet of "Archaic Torso of Apollo".
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Holderlin [accept "To Holderlin"]):
    Rilke's poem "To" this author says that, to him, "a compelling image...was a life, entire". This poet's elegies, such as "The Archipelago," are laden with Greek mythological references and heavily inspired those of Rilke.

[B17] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem mocks its dedicatee Richard Howard by challenging him to "comb" "learned journals" for the name of a "minor lion attending on Gerome" who painted an Oriental harem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Lost in Translation"):
    Name this James Merrill poem in which a young boy assembles a jigsaw puzzle with the guidance of a "Mademoiselle, / In real life a widow since Verdun."
  Part 2 (ans: trees [accept specific types like birch trees or palm trees] (The poem is "Birches" by Robert Frost.)):
    In the poem, a puzzle piece shaped like one of these objects reminds the protagonist of a Paul Valery poem. A different poem about a "boy too far from town to learn baseball" claims, "one could do worse than be a swinger" of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke ("RILL-kuh")):
    The poem's protagonist wonders "how much of the sun-ripe original" Valery poem this author "made himself forgo" in his German translation, which is quoted in the poem's epigraph. This author wrote The Duino Elegies.

[B18] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem is dedicated to Wilhelm Heinse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Bread and Wine" [or "Brod und Wein"]):
    Name this elegy. Its seventh section laments, "But friend, we come too late. It's true that the gods live, / but up over our heads, up in a different world," and describes poets as "holy priests of the wine god, / moving from land to land in the holy night."
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Christian Friedrich Holderlin):
    "Bread and Wine" was written by this German Romantic author of "Patmos." In an epistolary novel, this author described Hyperion's struggle to overthrow Turkish rule in Greece during the Orlov Revolt.
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke (The poem is the first Duino Elegy)):
    This poet addressed Holderlin as the "most wandering [spirit] of all." In one of his own elegies, this poet asked "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?".

[B19] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's contentious last section is usually published under either the title "Into the Millennium" or "The Criminals" and involves the protagonist's incest with his sister Agathe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Man without Qualities [or Der Mann ohne Eigenschaften]):
    Name this novel. Its protagonist is an indifferent mathematician who, having given up civil engineering, takes a year out from his normal life to try and find 'an appropriate application for his abilities', eventually helping to organise a 70-year jubilee.
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    The author of The Man without Qualities, Robert Musil, wrote a memorial speech for this other author, who wrote that "beauty is nothing but the beginning of terror" in a work written while staying with Princess Marie von Thurn und Taxis.
  Part 3 (ans: Austria):
    Musil was an author from this modern-day country, which he refers to as "Kakania" in The Man Without Qualities. Another author from this modern-day country, Joseph Roth, wrote the historical novel Radetzky March.

[B20] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The poem "Devotion" from this collection declares that "there's nothing / more holy than holding / a man's heartbeat between / your teeth, sharpened / with too much / air." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Night Sky With Exit Wounds):
    Name this 2016 collection that includes a poem in which the author reminds himself that "loneliness is still time spent / with the world," titled "Someday I'll Love Ocean Vuong."
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Marie Rilke [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke] (Vuong's poem is titled "Torso of Air.")):
    Vuong began another poem from Night Sky With Open Wounds with the line "Suppose you do change your life," in continuation from this German author's poem "Archaic Torso of Apollo"
  Part 3 (ans: Telemachus):
    Vuong resolves to "seal my father's lips / with my own & begin / the faithful work of drowning" in a poem titled for this mythological figure, who in another poem is left with "the scepter and the isle" with the expectation that he "make mild / A rugged people."

[B21] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An alexandrine sonnet titled for "the nocturne of" this person is a double acrostic spelling the phrase "the maiden in her dark, pale meadow," as well as a perfect anagram of a sonnet by John Keats. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orpheus [accept "The Nocturne of Orpheus" or "Orpheus"]):
    Name this title figure of a poem that begins "any style of life / is prim." The Xenotext was written to accompany that poem titled for this person, which Christian Bok encoded into bacterial DNA to generate a response poem in the resulting poem.
  Part 2 (ans: H. D. [or Hilda Doolittle]):
    Just like the E. coli in the Xenotext project, this Imagist wrote a poem called "Eurydice" which states that "hell must open like a red rose / for the dead to pass." This woman wrote the collections Sea Garden and Helen in Egypt.
  Part 3 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]):
    This Austrian author wrote the poem "Orpheus. Eurydice. Hermes" and a 55-cycle of poems called Sonnets to Orpheus. He also wrote the Duino Elegies.

[B22] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this man's poems concludes with the exhortation that "you must change your life". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    This Bohemian-Austrian wrote that poem, the Archaic Torso of Apollo, as well as the collections Sonnets to Orpheus and the Duino Elegies.
  Part 2 (ans: The Book of Hours [accept Das Stunden-Buch]):
    This early work by Rilke comprised of three cycles exploring themes of God and the nature of prayer, is drawn from his experiences of Orthodox Christianity while travelling in Russia.
  Part 3 (ans: angels [accept Engel]):
    The Duino Elegies further developed Rilke's use of religious imagery, focusing in particular on these figures, described as "terrifying" in an elegy that begins by asking if these figures would hear the speaker if he cried out.

[B23] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about soldiers in European literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    This German poet wrote several Letters to a Young Poet to a military cadet at his alma mater. This author's poetry collections include the Sonnets to Orpheus.
  Part 2 (ans: Svejk [SH'VAYK] [accept The Good Soldier Svejk, written by Jaroslav Hasek]):
    This soldier's misadventures include trekking around Bohemia looking for his barracks and being taken as a POW by his own side. This comic character's name came to be a verb for sabotaging one's superiors with stupidity.
  Part 3 (ans: World War I [or the First World War; or the Great War]):
    Ford Madox Ford's Parade's End novels are about Christopher Tietjens, who serves as a soldier in this war. It is also the setting of Erich Maria Remarque's The Road Back and All Quiet on the Western Front.

[B24] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet compared "men grinding in the strobe & black lights" with a youthful experience shared with Curtis, who cut his foot on a broken bottle in the creek, in the poem "At Pegasus." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Terrance Hayes):
    Name this Pittsburgh-based poet who won the National Book Award in 2010 for his collection Lighthead. He wrote, "I am a black wound, what's left of the deed," in his poem "Cocktails with Orpheus."
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    Another poet who wrote about Orpheus was this Austrian, who addressed 55 sonnets to the Greek bard. He also wrote the Duino Elegies.
  Part 3 (ans: The Ground Beneath Her Feet):
    This novel by Salman Rushdie about Ormus Cama and Vina Apsara explores the Orpheus and Eurydice story in the context of an alternate history of rock and roll.

[B25] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the British translator Michael Hamburger. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke):
    Hamburger translated an "unofficial" selection of this Austrian poet's works. He wrote "Extinguish Thou My Eyes," "The Spanish Dancer," and a poem beginning "A tree arose. O pure transcendence!"
  Part 2 (ans: Jewish [accept any obvious equivalents]):
    Hamburger was the major translator of both Nelly Sachs and Paul Celan, who both suffered under the Nazis due to being this kind of person.
  Part 3 (ans: Friedrich Holderlin):
    Hamburger translated this poet's works throughout his life. This German Romantic wrote enigmatic poems like "Hyperion's Victory-Song," "The Ister," "Bread and Wine," and "Half of Life."
