=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Henry Ossawa Tanner ===
(Questions where 'Henry Ossawa Tanner' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Banjo Lesson
  - Writing in third person, the artist of this painting explained that his goal in creating it was to make up for past artists who "have lacked sympathy with... the warm big heart within such a rough exterior." This painting drew on its artist's illustrations for the story "Uncle Tim's Compromise on Ch
  - In the bottom right of this painting, several pots sit on the floor in the glow of an unseen fireplace.
  - The mixing of yellow and blue light in this painting later reappears in some of its artist's (*) religious works, such as Daniel in the Lions' Den.
  - The two figures in this painting, which have the same models as the pair in the artist's The Thankful Poor, are an old man and a boy who sits on his knee receiving instructions.
  - For 10 points, a boy learns to play a stringed instrument in what 1893 Henry Ossawa Tanner painting?

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting's composition resembles an illustration its artist made for Ruth McEnery Stuart's story "Uncle Tim's Compromise on Christmas." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Banjo Lesson(by Henry Ossawa Tanner)):
    Name this 1893 painting that may have been inspired by a trip to the Blue Ridge Mountains. This genre painting depicts a seated elderly man and a child holding the title instrument.
  Part 2 (ans: the Annunciation):
    Henry Ossawa Tanner's The Banjo Lesson was created for the Paris Salon, as was his 1898 depiction of this Biblical scene in which Mary gazes at a light beam representing Gabriel.
  Part 3 (ans: Philadelphia [or Philly; accept Philadelphia Museum of Art] (Tanner's teacher was Thomas Eakins.)):
    Tanner's depiction of the Annunciation is now held in this city's namesake Museum of Art. Tanner's teacher painted an anatomy lesson held by Samuel D. Gross in this city.

[BM2] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A black coat hangs in the top left of this painting, which is set in a simple room with bare wooden floors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Banjo Lesson):
    Identify this 1893 genre painting by Henry Ossawa Tanner of an elderly black man teaching a youth how to play the title instrument.
  Part 2 (ans: Winslow Homer):
    This American Realist depicted scenes like Thanksgiving in Camp for Harper's Weekly during the Civil War, and a painting of a storm coming on in The Gulf Stream.
  Part 3 (ans: William Merritt Chase):
    This other American artist was influenced by French Impressionism while studying under Karl Theodor von Piloty in Munich. Upon returning to New York, this artist of the Southampton-set At the Seaside and still-lifes of dead fish established a namesake school now called Parsons The New School for Des

[BM3] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this painting, the glow from the fireplace lights the jug and tablecloth sitting on the table in the background. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Banjo Lesson):
    Name this 1893 painting of an elderly black man teaching a child sitting on his lap how to play the title instrument.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Eakins):
    The Banjo Lesson is by Henry Ossawa Tanner, a notable student of this Philadelphia-based painter of The Gross Clinic.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Schmitt in a Single Scull [or The Champion, Single Sculls]):
    Eakins himself can be seen in the background of this painting, in which the title rower sits in a boat in the middle of the Schuylkill River.
