=== STOCK CLUES: André Gide ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 25 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 41 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide("zheed") [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The novel in the third sentence is The Pastoral Symphony.)
  - This author wrote "Families, I hate you!
  - Shut-in homes, closed doors" in a poem about his Protestant upbringing titled The Fruits of the Earth.
  - In a novel by this author, Amedee is pushed off a train in an acte gratuit, but it is blamed on the orchestrator of a sham plot to rescue the Pope from a Vatican dungeon.
  - In another novel by this author, Gertrude falls in love with a pastor until she gets surgery to restore her eyesight. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author of (*) Lafcadio's Adventures, Boris dies during an initiation ceremony when a real bullet is substituted for a fake one.
  - In a novel by this author, Moktir's theft of a pair of scissors fascinates Michel, a scholar with tuberculosis who has a passion for Arab boys.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of The Counterfeiters and The Immoralist. [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide
  - In a novel by this author, a character remembers watching sailors cut off the hands of people reaching for lifeboats during the wreck of the Bourgogne. [PWR]
  - That novel by him contains a strange chapter in which a character is led around by an angel whom he then wrestles for an entire night. [PWR]
  - One of this author's protagonists jumps into a draining pond to catch eels and enjoys poaching rabbits on his own Normandy estate.
  - He created a character who gets a job as a secretary after using a dropped checkroom ticket to steal another man's bag. [PWR]
  - That novel by this author ends with Boris (*) shooting himself in a classroom during a botched initiation rite. [PWR]
  - In one of his novels, the protagonist watches Moktir steal a pair of scissors from his wife Marceline and develops an interest in Arab boys while recovering from tuberculosis.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of The Counterfeiters and The Immoralist. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide
  - In one novel by this author, the protagonist compares the self-actualization of his homosexuality to the mind peeling away like a cosmetic that reveals the "naked flesh" beneath.
  - In another of his books, Alissa dies of a self-imposed mysterious malady after she strives for religious purity and renounces her eternal love for Jerome.
  - In another of this author's works, a pastor adopts a blind girl who he leads to believe the world is free from sin, but she attempts to kill herself after regaining her sight and realizing his lies.
  - This author of Straight is the Gate and The Pastoral Symphony wrote a novel in which Michel contract tuberculosis in Tunis during his honeymoon, and spend time among young men like the thief Moktir and Bashir.
  - For 10 points, name this French novelist who wrote The Immoralist. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide
  - This author wrote about Amelie's struggles with a husband who loves his adopted, blind daughter, Gertrude, more than his biological children.
  - This author also wrote of Menalque's teaching two life lessons to Nathaniel in a poem, while he wrote of Juliette's sister Alissa who refuses to fulfill a childhood pact of love with Jerome.
  - This man wrote a Journal of one of his novels to explain the development of the work in which (*)Gheridanisol convinces Boris to commit suicide. [PWR]
  - That novel includes intimate relations between Bernard and both Edouard and Olivier.
  - In another novel by this man, a Tunisian honeymoon is ruined by tuberculosis before Michel realizes his love for young boys.
  - For 10 points, name the French author of the novels Strait is the Gate, The Counterfeiters, and The Immoralist. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the blind girl Gertrude regains her eyesight and falls in love with a pastor's son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The other novel is The Immoralist.)):
    Name this author of the novel The Pastoral Symphony. In a different novel by this author, the tuberculosis-suffering protagonist watches the boy Moktir steal a pair of scissors.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    A town suddenly regains its eyesight at the end of the novel Blindness written by this Portuguese author.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo [accept Pablo Neruda] (The poem is "The Heights of Macchu Picchu.")):
    In a novel by the Spanish author Benito Perez Galdos, a boy with this first name regains his eyesight and rejects the girl Marianela. The final section of a twelve-part poem by a poet with this first name declares, "Rise up in birth with me, my brother."

[B2] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: John Milton's "Lycidas" closely imitates a Latin poem by this writer, which includes the line "Love conquers all; let us then yield to love!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Virgil [or Publius Vergilius Maro] (The unnamed poem is the Aeneid [I guess])):
    Name this Roman poet of the Eclogues and the Georgics. Another poem by this author begins "I sing of arms and the man."
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Cornelius Gallus):
    This other poet is the primary speaker of the tenth Eclogue, in which he is given the line "Omnia vincit amor." The Eclogue depicts him dying due to his unrequited love for Lycoris.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide]):
    This author of the dialogue series Corydon drew character names from Virgil's Eclogues for several of his novels. In one such novel, Menalque challenges his friend, a Protestant academic, to embrace homosexuality.

[B3] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a list poem titled for this character's "Workout," Anne Carson notes that this character's name occurs 2,363 times in the novel she appears in, and that "on a good 19 per cent of these pages she is asleep." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albertine Simonet [or Albertine Simonet; accept The Albertine Workout]):
    Name this character who is first glimpsed on a beach in Within a Budding Grove and later dies in a riding accident. In The Prisoner, the narrator jealously imprisons this character in his house over her lesbian affairs.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    The narrator, who is Albertine's lover, struggles to sleep without his mother's goodnight kiss in this author's novel In Search of Lost Time.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide ("zheed") (The novel is The Pastoral Symphony.)):
    The Albertine Workout discusses this author's "transposition theory" that Proust's chauffeur inspired Albertine. In a novel by this author, Gertrude realizes that she loves the pastor's son Jacques after gaining her eyesight.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist is an archaeologist who writes a well-received "Essay on Phrygian Religious Customs" under his father's name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Immoralist [or L'Immoraliste]):
    Name this novel in which the tubercular Michel journeys through North Africa with his devout wife Marceline before her own death from tuberculosis; meanwhile, Michel romantically pursues a number of Arab boys.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide (zheed)):
    This French author counted Strait is the Gate and The Immoralist among his recits.
  Part 3 (ans: Oscar Wilde [Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde]):
    Gide's autobiography disputes the contention that this friend introduced him to homosexuality during a trip to Algeria. Joris-Karl Huysmans's (zho-REES karl wees-MANS's) A rebours is probably the "poisonous French novel" that Henry Wotton gives to this author's character Dorian Gray.

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's 1930s tour of the Soviet Union led them to renounce their earlier sympathy for Stalinism in the memoir Return from the U. S. S. R. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide]):
    Name this French author and polemicist, who also defended so-called "pederasty" in Corydon and The Immoralist.
  Part 2 (ans: The God that Failed):
    Along with authors like Ignazio Silone and Arthur Koestler, Gide contributed to this 1948 essay collection written by former Soviet Union supporters. This collection examines "Kronstadts" when sympathizers turn to anti-communism.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Wright):
    Another contributor to The God that Failed was this American author, who wrote Native Son while affiliated with the communist party.

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story from this collection, a Jewish tailor's apprentice is fired for cruelly murdering a skunk and then assigned by Aimicke ("AIM-ih-kay") to murder the girl with "the face of a traitor." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Tomb for Boris Davidovich [or Grobnica za Borisa Davidovica]):
    Name this collection of stories by Danilo Kis ("dah-NEE-loh KEESH") that includes "The Knife with the Rosewood Handle." In this collection's title story, Fedukin ("FED-oo-kin") wishes to prevent the title character from writing the final page of his biography.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide ("zheed") [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The unnamed novel is The Immoralist.)):
    Danilo Kis's collection A Tomb for Boris Davidovich contains the story "The Mechanical Lions," which was written in homage to this author of Strait Is the Gate. In another novel by this French author, Michel pursues Arab boys, such as Moktir.
  Part 3 (ans: gulags [prompt on Soviet prisons or prison camps or penal camps or forced labor camps]):
    In the story "The Magic Card Dealing" from A Tomb for Boris Davidovich, a card game in one of these places decides a murder. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn set One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich in one of these places.

[B7] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Doctor Fine sends agents codenamed for Western watches to murder people disseminating these objects in Orhan Pamuk's novel The New Life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a book that shares its title with, and is implied to be the same as, the novel it appears in [or a novel]):
    Name these objects. Ermes Marana introduces bizarre errors into another of these objects in a metafictional novel whose protagonist investigates their defects.
  Part 2 (ans: Italo Calvino [Italo Giovanni Calvino Mameli]):
    You sit down to read a copy of this Italian author's If on a winter's night a traveler in his second-person novel with that title.
  Part 3 (ans: The Counterfeiters [or Les Faux-monnayeurs] (by Andre Gide)):
    This unfinished novel, which also shares its title with the novel it appears in, is criticized by the psychoanalyst Mme Sophroniska for being excessively abstract. Its author makes the most progress on it after he and his nephew first have sex, and essentially abandons it after his nephew's suicide attempt.

[B8] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: W.B. Yeats commented "after us the savage God" after seeing the premiere of one play of which this character is the protagonist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ubu (Roi/King/Cocu/Cuckolded/Enchaine/In Chains)):
    Name this character, who is "cuckolded" and "in chains" according to the titles of two absurdist plays in which he appears. This character's best-known play opens with the deliberately mispronounced word "merdre".
  Part 2 (ans: Poland):
    The play Ubu Roi opens with Ubu leading a revolution in this European country. The novel Quo Vadis?, published the same year as Ubu Roi, was written by Henryk Sienkiewicz [seen-kee-vits], an author from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    Alfred Jarry, the creator of Ubu, is one of the few historical figures to appear in this French novelist's work The Counterfeiters. This man also wrote The Immoralist.

[B9] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this novel suffers through an unhappy marriage to Monsieur Tessiere. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Strait is the Gate [accept La Porte etroite]):
    Name this epistolary novel focusing on Jerome's love for his highly religious cousin, Alissa. It takes its title from Luke 13:24.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide):
    As well as penning Strait is the Gate, this Nobel Prize-winning French author wrote about Michel's attraction to Arab boys in The Immoralist.
  Part 3 (ans: The Counterfeiters [accept Les Faux-Monnayeurs]):
    Gide published a Journal to elucidate the writing process of this novel, in which Bernard runs away from home after finding an old love letter addressed to his mother. This novel's final chapter sees Boris commit suicide with a gun that was supposed to contain a blank cartridge.

[B10] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: With his younger lover Marc Allegret (al-LAY-gray), this man toured French colonies in Africa a few years after he completed the first French translation of Heart of Darkness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide (zheed) [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide]):
    Name this author of a semi-autobiographical novel about Michel's attraction to Tunisian boys titled The Immoralist.
  Part 2 (ans: The God That Failed):
    Gide was one of the six collaborators who included essays in this 1949 book. Its contributors all described their disillusionment with, and eventual abandonment of, communism.
  Part 3 (ans: Gospel of John [or Gospel According to John; or Book of John; accept Fourth Gospel]):
    Gide's autobiography, If It Die, takes its title from a verse in this biblical gospel. Chapter 3, verse 16, of this gospel says that "God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life."

[B11] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Arthur Koestler was one of six authors who contributed essays about their disillusionment with communism to the collection The God That Failed. For 10 points each, name these other contributors to the book:
  Part 1 (ans: Ignazio Silone [or Secondino Tranquilli; those novels are Fontamara and Bread and Wine]):
    This author wrote a novel in which the Impresario steals the irrigation water of a poor town of peasants and a book in which Pietro Spina hides from the fascists in the disguise of a priest.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide):
    This contributor spoke out against Soviet communism after touring the country in the 1930s. He also wrote Corydon and The Immoralist.

[B12] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about Joseph Knecht's intellectual and spiritual journey in The Glass Bead Game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hermann Hesse (HESS-uh)):
    Name this Swiss author who wrote about an Indian youth seeking a deep personal meaning after an encounter with the Buddha in his novel Siddhartha.
  Part 2 (ans: Hugo Ball):
    A 1927 biography of Hesse was written by this German poet of the nonsense poem "Karawane". He also wrote the Dada Manifesto.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    The introduction for the French edition of Hesse's Journey to the East was written by this French author of The Counterfeiters. He wrote about the tubercular Michel's growing passion for young men in The Immoralist.

[B13] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man detailed his time working for Aeropostale in Wind, Sand and Stars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antoine de Saint-Exupery):
    Name this author better known for a novella in which the title character lives on an asteroid called B-612, The Little Prince.
  Part 2 (ans: Colette [or Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette]):
    This other twentieth-century French writer wrote about Fred Peloux in Cheri, as well as four novels about Claudine and the novella Gigi.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    Cheri was praised by this fellow French novelist of The Immoralist and The Counterfeiters.

[B14] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of the novel named after this character, he puts on a pearl necklace belonging to his much older lover Lea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cheri):
    Name this character, whose real name is Fred Peloux. His love for Lea drives him to leave his young wife Edmee.
  Part 2 (ans: Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette):
    This French author of The Vagabond created Cheri. She also wrote many novels about the schoolgirl Claudine and the novella Gigi.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    This fellow French author sent Colette a letter congratulating her for writing Cheri. His own novels include The Pastoral Symphony and The Counterfeiters.
