=== STOCK CLUES: Gide ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 77 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 23 found, 66 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide("zheed") [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The novel in the third sentence is The Pastoral Symphony.)
  - This author wrote "Families, I hate you!
  - Shut-in homes, closed doors" in a poem about his Protestant upbringing titled The Fruits of the Earth.
  - In a novel by this author, Amedee is pushed off a train in an acte gratuit, but it is blamed on the orchestrator of a sham plot to rescue the Pope from a Vatican dungeon.
  - In another novel by this author, Gertrude falls in love with a pastor until she gets surgery to restore her eyesight. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author of (*) Lafcadio's Adventures, Boris dies during an initiation ceremony when a real bullet is substituted for a fake one.
  - In a novel by this author, Moktir's theft of a pair of scissors fascinates Michel, a scholar with tuberculosis who has a passion for Arab boys.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of The Counterfeiters and The Immoralist. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Andre (Paul Guillaume) Gide [zheed] Note to players: Specific term required.
  - Lucien Dallenbach's book The Mirror in the Text notes that this author would write in front of a mirror and look up at himself after every sentence.
  - Damion Searls's translation of a dizzyingly metafictional novel by this author, published by NYRB Classics in 2021, includes this author's own blurb, which says "I don't understand a single thing in Marshlands.
  - Did I write the book?" This author was the first to use the heraldic term (*) mise en abyme [meez "on a BEAM"] to refer to an artwork embedded in a similar artwork.
  - This Nobel laureate fictionalized himself as Edouard [ed-WAHR], who is working on a novel with the same title as the novel in which he appears, in a book which also has a subplot about a ring of boys who circulate fake coins throughout Paris.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Counterfeiters. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Gideon [also accept Jerubbaal or Jerubbesheth]
  - This man experienced a possible theophany while threshing wheat in a wine press. [PWR]
  - This man overhears talk of a vision of a loaf of bread rolling into his enemies' camp, destroying a tent. [PWR]
  - This man tested God by leaving a woolen fleece outside overnight, and created (*) an army of 300 men by seeing how soldiers drank water from a stream. [PWR]
  - He then had that army play a lot of trumpets to scare the Midianites.
  - For 10 points, name this judge who armed his men with torches in jars, providing the logo of a group that leaves Bibles in Hotel rooms. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Gideon [or Jerubbaal until read]
  - After writing down the names of 77 officials of a town, this man punishes them "with desert thorns and briers".
  - His son was the subject of a parable about a thornbush becoming the king of the other trees.
  - He's not Greek, but this man's son was killed when a woman threw a millstone on his skull.
  - This leader was told to dismiss any man who did not drink water by lapping it like a dog.
  - Also known as "Jerubbaal", this person had a dictatorial son who ruled Shechem named Abimelech.
  - After putting out a fleece and asking God to give him signs, this man destroyed an altar of Baal.
  - With only a force of 300 men, this man used trumpets and torches to confuse and defeat a much larger Midianite force.
  - For 10 points, what Old Testament judge names a group which hands out free Bibles? [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide
  - In a novel by this author, a character remembers watching sailors cut off the hands of people reaching for lifeboats during the wreck of the Bourgogne. [PWR]
  - That novel by him contains a strange chapter in which a character is led around by an angel whom he then wrestles for an entire night. [PWR]
  - One of this author's protagonists jumps into a draining pond to catch eels and enjoys poaching rabbits on his own Normandy estate.
  - He created a character who gets a job as a secretary after using a dropped checkroom ticket to steal another man's bag. [PWR]
  - That novel by this author ends with Boris (*) shooting himself in a classroom during a botched initiation rite. [PWR]
  - In one of his novels, the protagonist watches Moktir steal a pair of scissors from his wife Marceline and develops an interest in Arab boys while recovering from tuberculosis.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of The Counterfeiters and The Immoralist. [GIVE]

[T6] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide
  - In one novel by this author, the protagonist compares the self-actualization of his homosexuality to the mind peeling away like a cosmetic that reveals the "naked flesh" beneath.
  - In another of his books, Alissa dies of a self-imposed mysterious malady after she strives for religious purity and renounces her eternal love for Jerome.
  - In another of this author's works, a pastor adopts a blind girl who he leads to believe the world is free from sin, but she attempts to kill herself after regaining her sight and realizing his lies.
  - This author of Straight is the Gate and The Pastoral Symphony wrote a novel in which Michel contract tuberculosis in Tunis during his honeymoon, and spend time among young men like the thief Moktir and Bashir.
  - For 10 points, name this French novelist who wrote The Immoralist. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Gideons International
  - In 2011, this religious group's Canadian branch withdrew from its worldwide body over plans to open membership to women and people outside of professional occupations.
  - This organization was the subject of 1993's Berger v.
  - Rensselaer case.
  - It was founded by William Knights, Samuel Hill, and John Nicholson in Janesville, Wisconsin in 1899 after the three repeatedly met each other on their sales routes.
  - Products from this group are color-coded by audience, including white versions for medical workers and red versions for schools.
  - A pitcher with two handles and a torch is the logo of this organization, in allusion to its namesake's victory over the Midianites.
  - For 10 points, name this Protestant society that has placed over a billion Bibles in hotel rooms. [GIVE]

[T8] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Gideon [or Jerub-Baal]
  - This man was told to only keep in his army those that lapped water with their tongues like a dog. [PWR]
  - The son of this man was criticized in a story about trees trying to anoint a thorn bush; that son of this leader was later killed when a woman in Thebez threw a millstone on his head. [PWR]
  - Using earrings taken from plunder, he created an ephod that the people worshipped. [PWR]
  - This man was the father of the villainous dictator (*) Abimelech. [PWR]
  - He first attracted attention by destroying his father's altar to Baal.
  - In order to be assured of God's promises, this person "put out a fleece" and asked God to keep the dew only on it, not the ground.
  - This man's forces used trumpets in their victory over the Midianites.
  - For 10 points, name this Biblical Judge, who lends his name to an organization that provides Bibles. [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Gideon v. Wainwright [accept either underlined name]
  - The ruling in this case was extended to all cases involving imprisonment in Argersinger v.
  - Hamlin, while its impact is often said to have been mitigated by Strickland v.
  - Washington.
  - Walter Mondale organized a petition of 23 states to express support for its eventual victor.
  - This case extended the decisions in Johnson v.
  - Zerbst and a case concerning the Scottsboro boys, Powell v.
  - Alabama.
  - Abe Fortas argued for the winning side in this case, whose unanimous decision was delivered by Hugo Black.
  - This case eliminated the "fundamental fairness" doctrine that had been used since Betts v.
  - Brady.
  - The defendant was accused of stealing money and alcohol from a Florida pool room and was granted a retrial after initially serving as his own defense attorney.
  - For 10 points, name the 1963 Supreme Court case that ruled that the Sixth Amendment right to counsel applied to state courts in non-capital cases. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Gideon [or Gedeon; or Gidon; or Jerub-baal]
  - This man's youngest son stood atop Mount Gerizim and delivered the parable of the bramble-king.
  - He's not Micah, but this father of Jotham had an ephod cast out of gold which the people "prostituted themselves" by worshiping.
  - He avenged the deaths of his brothers by executing Zebah and Zalmunna after triumphing in the Valley of Jezreel.
  - He was directed to lead his men to water and take with him only the ones who lapped the water like dogs.
  - His initial doubts were allayed by a pair of miracles involving finding dew either on or off a piece of fleece.
  - This man used trumpets to generate confusion while leading his army of 300 in defeating the Midianites.
  - For 10 points, identify this fifth judge of the Israelites, whose name was adopted by a Bible-distributing organization. [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Andre Gide
  - This author wrote about Amelie's struggles with a husband who loves his adopted, blind daughter, Gertrude, more than his biological children.
  - This author also wrote of Menalque's teaching two life lessons to Nathaniel in a poem, while he wrote of Juliette's sister Alissa who refuses to fulfill a childhood pact of love with Jerome.
  - This man wrote a Journal of one of his novels to explain the development of the work in which (*)Gheridanisol convinces Boris to commit suicide. [PWR]
  - That novel includes intimate relations between Bernard and both Edouard and Olivier.
  - In another novel by this man, a Tunisian honeymoon is ruined by tuberculosis before Michel realizes his love for young boys.
  - For 10 points, name the French author of the novels Strait is the Gate, The Counterfeiters, and The Immoralist. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the blind girl Gertrude regains her eyesight and falls in love with a pastor's son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The other novel is The Immoralist.)):
    Name this author of the novel The Pastoral Symphony. In a different novel by this author, the tuberculosis-suffering protagonist watches the boy Moktir steal a pair of scissors.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    A town suddenly regains its eyesight at the end of the novel Blindness written by this Portuguese author.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo [accept Pablo Neruda] (The poem is "The Heights of Macchu Picchu.")):
    In a novel by the Spanish author Benito Perez Galdos, a boy with this first name regains his eyesight and rejects the girl Marianela. The final section of a twelve-part poem by a poet with this first name declares, "Rise up in birth with me, my brother."

[B2] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: John Milton's "Lycidas" closely imitates a Latin poem by this writer, which includes the line "Love conquers all; let us then yield to love!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Virgil [or Publius Vergilius Maro] (The unnamed poem is the Aeneid [I guess])):
    Name this Roman poet of the Eclogues and the Georgics. Another poem by this author begins "I sing of arms and the man."
  Part 2 (ans: Gaius Cornelius Gallus):
    This other poet is the primary speaker of the tenth Eclogue, in which he is given the line "Omnia vincit amor." The Eclogue depicts him dying due to his unrequited love for Lycoris.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide]):
    This author of the dialogue series Corydon drew character names from Virgil's Eclogues for several of his novels. In one such novel, Menalque challenges his friend, a Protestant academic, to embrace homosexuality.

[B3] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a list poem titled for this character's "Workout," Anne Carson notes that this character's name occurs 2,363 times in the novel she appears in, and that "on a good 19 per cent of these pages she is asleep." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albertine Simonet [or Albertine Simonet; accept The Albertine Workout]):
    Name this character who is first glimpsed on a beach in Within a Budding Grove and later dies in a riding accident. In The Prisoner, the narrator jealously imprisons this character in his house over her lesbian affairs.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    The narrator, who is Albertine's lover, struggles to sleep without his mother's goodnight kiss in this author's novel In Search of Lost Time.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide ("zheed") (The novel is The Pastoral Symphony.)):
    The Albertine Workout discusses this author's "transposition theory" that Proust's chauffeur inspired Albertine. In a novel by this author, Gertrude realizes that she loves the pastor's son Jacques after gaining her eyesight.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist is an archaeologist who writes a well-received "Essay on Phrygian Religious Customs" under his father's name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Immoralist [or L'Immoraliste]):
    Name this novel in which the tubercular Michel journeys through North Africa with his devout wife Marceline before her own death from tuberculosis; meanwhile, Michel romantically pursues a number of Arab boys.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide (zheed)):
    This French author counted Strait is the Gate and The Immoralist among his recits.
  Part 3 (ans: Oscar Wilde [Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde]):
    Gide's autobiography disputes the contention that this friend introduced him to homosexuality during a trip to Algeria. Joris-Karl Huysmans's (zho-REES karl wees-MANS's) A rebours is probably the "poisonous French novel" that Henry Wotton gives to this author's character Dorian Gray.

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's 1930s tour of the Soviet Union led them to renounce their earlier sympathy for Stalinism in the memoir Return from the U. S. S. R. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide]):
    Name this French author and polemicist, who also defended so-called "pederasty" in Corydon and The Immoralist.
  Part 2 (ans: The God that Failed):
    Along with authors like Ignazio Silone and Arthur Koestler, Gide contributed to this 1948 essay collection written by former Soviet Union supporters. This collection examines "Kronstadts" when sympathizers turn to anti-communism.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Wright):
    Another contributor to The God that Failed was this American author, who wrote Native Son while affiliated with the communist party.

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story from this collection, a Jewish tailor's apprentice is fired for cruelly murdering a skunk and then assigned by Aimicke ("AIM-ih-kay") to murder the girl with "the face of a traitor." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Tomb for Boris Davidovich [or Grobnica za Borisa Davidovica]):
    Name this collection of stories by Danilo Kis ("dah-NEE-loh KEESH") that includes "The Knife with the Rosewood Handle." In this collection's title story, Fedukin ("FED-oo-kin") wishes to prevent the title character from writing the final page of his biography.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide ("zheed") [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The unnamed novel is The Immoralist.)):
    Danilo Kis's collection A Tomb for Boris Davidovich contains the story "The Mechanical Lions," which was written in homage to this author of Strait Is the Gate. In another novel by this French author, Michel pursues Arab boys, such as Moktir.
  Part 3 (ans: gulags [prompt on Soviet prisons or prison camps or penal camps or forced labor camps]):
    In the story "The Magic Card Dealing" from A Tomb for Boris Davidovich, a card game in one of these places decides a murder. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn set One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich in one of these places.

[B7] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Doctor Fine sends agents codenamed for Western watches to murder people disseminating these objects in Orhan Pamuk's novel The New Life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a book that shares its title with, and is implied to be the same as, the novel it appears in [or a novel]):
    Name these objects. Ermes Marana introduces bizarre errors into another of these objects in a metafictional novel whose protagonist investigates their defects.
  Part 2 (ans: Italo Calvino [Italo Giovanni Calvino Mameli]):
    You sit down to read a copy of this Italian author's If on a winter's night a traveler in his second-person novel with that title.
  Part 3 (ans: The Counterfeiters [or Les Faux-monnayeurs] (by Andre Gide)):
    This unfinished novel, which also shares its title with the novel it appears in, is criticized by the psychoanalyst Mme Sophroniska for being excessively abstract. Its author makes the most progress on it after he and his nephew first have sex, and essentially abandons it after his nephew's suicide attempt.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This commodore built the town of Madisonville and fought at Typee Valley while serving as captain of the USS Essex in the Nuku Hiva Campaign during the War of 1812. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Porter):
    Name this American captain whose ship was captured at the Battle of Valparaiso. After being court martialed, he ran away and became the chief commander of the Mexican navy.
  Part 2 (ans: David Glasgow Farragut):
    One of Porter's lieutenants in his Polynesian escapades was this man, who became the first US Navy Admiral, and gave the order "Damn the torpedoes" before attacking the Confederate fleet at Mobile Bay.
  Part 3 (ans: Gideon Welles):
    David Porter's son of the same name often clashed with this Secretary of the Navy under Abraham Lincoln, a man known as Father Neptune, whose attempt to relieve Fort Sumter was hamstrung by Porter's relief of Fort Pickens.

[B9] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: According to Gregory Bar Hebraeus, Mu'awiyah I sold this object to "a certain Jew from Emesa" after it lay on its side for 800 years after a 226 B.C.E. earthquake. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Colossus of Rhodes):
    Name this wonder of the ancient world funded by the sale of siege equipment used in a siege that earned one of the Diadochi the epithet "Soter" or "Savior." It depicted a certain island's patron god, Helios.
  Part 2 (ans: Ptolemy I Soter [also accept Ptolemaios Lagides or Ptolemy, Son of Lagus; prompt on Ptolemy or Ptolemaios]):
    This founder of a namesake dynasty was dubbed "Soter" by the Rhodians for helping to fend off the besieging Antigonids. Perdiccas was killed after a failed attack on this sometimes-ally, sometimes-enemy of Seleucus I.
  Part 3 (ans: the body of Alexander the Great [accept equivalent descriptions; also accept Alexander III]):
    Ptolemy I triggered the first War of the Diadochi by stealing this object to bolster his legitimacy, forcing Perdiccas to attack Egypt. This object was en route to join other such objects at modern Vergina when intercepted.

[B10] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: W.B. Yeats commented "after us the savage God" after seeing the premiere of one play of which this character is the protagonist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ubu (Roi/King/Cocu/Cuckolded/Enchaine/In Chains)):
    Name this character, who is "cuckolded" and "in chains" according to the titles of two absurdist plays in which he appears. This character's best-known play opens with the deliberately mispronounced word "merdre".
  Part 2 (ans: Poland):
    The play Ubu Roi opens with Ubu leading a revolution in this European country. The novel Quo Vadis?, published the same year as Ubu Roi, was written by Henryk Sienkiewicz [seen-kee-vits], an author from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    Alfred Jarry, the creator of Ubu, is one of the few historical figures to appear in this French novelist's work The Counterfeiters. This man also wrote The Immoralist.

[B11] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this novel suffers through an unhappy marriage to Monsieur Tessiere. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Strait is the Gate [accept La Porte etroite]):
    Name this epistolary novel focusing on Jerome's love for his highly religious cousin, Alissa. It takes its title from Luke 13:24.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide):
    As well as penning Strait is the Gate, this Nobel Prize-winning French author wrote about Michel's attraction to Arab boys in The Immoralist.
  Part 3 (ans: The Counterfeiters [accept Les Faux-Monnayeurs]):
    Gide published a Journal to elucidate the writing process of this novel, in which Bernard runs away from home after finding an old love letter addressed to his mother. This novel's final chapter sees Boris commit suicide with a gun that was supposed to contain a blank cartridge.

[B12] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: With his younger lover Marc Allegret (al-LAY-gray), this man toured French colonies in Africa a few years after he completed the first French translation of Heart of Darkness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide (zheed) [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide]):
    Name this author of a semi-autobiographical novel about Michel's attraction to Tunisian boys titled The Immoralist.
  Part 2 (ans: The God That Failed):
    Gide was one of the six collaborators who included essays in this 1949 book. Its contributors all described their disillusionment with, and eventual abandonment of, communism.
  Part 3 (ans: Gospel of John [or Gospel According to John; or Book of John; accept Fourth Gospel]):
    Gide's autobiography, If It Die, takes its title from a verse in this biblical gospel. Chapter 3, verse 16, of this gospel says that "God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life."

[B13] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: During his inauguration as Vice President, Andrew Johnson drunkenly forgot this man's name while attempting to praise him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gideon Welles):
    Name this Democrat in the Lincoln administration whom Lincoln referred to as his "Neptune."
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Hampton Roads):
    Slightly more than a year after becoming Secretary of the Navy, Welles played a substantial role in the creation of the USS Monitor, which took part in this naval battle, the first meeting of ironclad warships in combat.
  Part 3 (ans: Gustavus Vasa Fox):
    Lincoln's real liaison in the Navy Department was this Assistant Secretary of the Navy, the son-in-law of Levi Woodbury. He commanded the rescue mission for the Fort Sumter garrison and pushed for the use of ironclads.

[B14] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Leadin: An example of this sin, as related in the sixth level of Purgatory, was the Centaurs, who got so drunk at a wedding that they committed many violent rapes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gluttony [or word forms, such as gluttonous]):
    Name this sin, practitioners of which are forced to reside near trees whose fruit is perpetually out of reach.
  Part 2 (ans: Gideon choosing his forces by how they drank water [correct answers need to mention Gideon and something about EITHER selecting his army, or trimming his forces, or drinking, or water, or a spring; or any equivalents thereof; prompt on partial answers]):
    Description acceptable. The second tree relates as examples of gluttony the story of the Centaurs and this Biblical story, which resulted in 9,700 men being excluded from an army.

[B15] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Geography
     Leadin: The U.S. Navy got into hot water with the capture of the CSS Florida, which wasn't the only time it managed to bungle maritime law. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Trent Affair):
    This other incident during the Civil War nearly caused war with Britain after the USS San Jacinto removed two Confederate diplomats from a neutral British vessel.
  Part 2 (ans: Gideon Welles):
    The Trent Affair was viewed positively by this Secretary of the Navy, who helped create the naval version of the Medal of Honor and promoted the building of ironclads like the USS Monitor.

[B16] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Arthur Koestler was one of six authors who contributed essays about their disillusionment with communism to the collection The God That Failed. For 10 points each, name these other contributors to the book:
  Part 1 (ans: Ignazio Silone [or Secondino Tranquilli; those novels are Fontamara and Bread and Wine]):
    This author wrote a novel in which the Impresario steals the irrigation water of a poor town of peasants and a book in which Pietro Spina hides from the fascists in the disguise of a priest.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gide):
    This contributor spoke out against Soviet communism after touring the country in the 1930s. He also wrote Corydon and The Immoralist.

[B17] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The first bridge-tunnel in the world is named for this location, which was also the site of a battle in which a fleet commanded by Louis M. Goldsborough managed to wound Franklin Buchanan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hampton Roads [prompt on "Hampton"; anti-prompt on "Sewell Point"]):
    Name this site, also the namesake of a four-hour conference that took place between William Seward, Alexander Stephens, and a few other representatives aboard the River Queen near Fort Monroe.
  Part 2 (ans: The American Civil War):
    The Battle of Hampton Roads and the Hampton Roads conference both took place during this conflict. This conflict was ended by a meeting at Appomattox Court House.
  Part 3 (ans: Gideon Welles):
    The aforementioned Battle of Hampton Roads occurred after this Union Secretary of the Navy ordered the Monitor to destroy the Merrimack in drydock. Lincoln nicknamed him "Neptune".

[B18] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about Joseph Knecht's intellectual and spiritual journey in The Glass Bead Game. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hermann Hesse (HESS-uh)):
    Name this Swiss author who wrote about an Indian youth seeking a deep personal meaning after an encounter with the Buddha in his novel Siddhartha.
  Part 2 (ans: Hugo Ball):
    A 1927 biography of Hesse was written by this German poet of the nonsense poem "Karawane". He also wrote the Dada Manifesto.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    The introduction for the French edition of Hesse's Journey to the East was written by this French author of The Counterfeiters. He wrote about the tubercular Michel's growing passion for young men in The Immoralist.

[B19] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This member of the diadochi commissioned the construction of the Lighthouse of Alexandria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ptolemy I Soter [or Ptolemy Lagides; accept Ptolemaic dynasty; accept Ptolemaios for "Ptolemy"]):
    Name this general of Alexander the Great who appropriated most of Egypt for himself and a long dynasty of rulers with the same name as him. He was given the epithet "Soter", meaning saviour.
  Part 2 (ans: Perdiccas):
    Ptolemy was viewed with suspicion by this regent of Alexander's empire, who ended up launching a pre-emptive invasion of Egypt that failed when this man was murdered by his own officers.
  Part 3 (ans: Serapis):
    Ptolemy created the cult of this mixed Greco-Egyptian god in an effort to unify his realm.

[B20] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In 1926, this author ignited an impassioned debate when he issued a treatise suggesting that the scientifc method should be used to approach and analyze pre-Islamic poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taha Hussein):
    Name this "Dean of Arabic Literature," who wrote about his studies abroad in Paris and criticized the al-Azhar seminary in his infuential tripartite autobiography told in the third person, titled The Days.
  Part 2 (ans: blindness):
    Taha Hussein sufered from this afiction, as did Jorge Luis Borges, who wrote an essay noting the irony of "imagin[ing] Paradise as a kind of library" and then developing this condition later in life afer becoming the director of the National Public Library.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre (Paul Guillaume) Gide):
    This author wrote the introduction to a French translation of The Days, and made North Africa the partial setting of a book in which Michel cheats on his wife with young Arab boys.

[B21] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man detailed his time working for Aeropostale in Wind, Sand and Stars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antoine de Saint-Exupery):
    Name this author better known for a novella in which the title character lives on an asteroid called B-612, The Little Prince.
  Part 2 (ans: Colette [or Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette]):
    This other twentieth-century French writer wrote about Fred Peloux in Cheri, as well as four novels about Claudine and the novella Gigi.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    Cheri was praised by this fellow French novelist of The Immoralist and The Counterfeiters.

[B22] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The unanimous ruling in this case modified Betts v. Brady and Powell v. Alabama, with Justice Black calling it an "obvious truth" that Counsel for the less fortunate was required. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gideon v. Wainwright):
    Name this U.S. Supreme Court case which extended the right to counsel for poor people charged with criminal offences to all cases, and whose facts dealt with a break-in at a Panama City, Florida Pool Hall.
  Part 2 (ans: Abraham "Abe" Fortas):
    Gideon's counsel at the Supreme Court was this man, later appointed by Eisenhower to the Supreme Court himself. He resigned because of an ethics scandal when he gave advice to Lyndon Johnson while on the court.
  Part 3 (ans: Adamson v. California):
    In this 1947 case, the Supreme Court declined to incorporate the Bill of Rights against California, allowing state courts to infer guilt from the silence of the accused. Hugo Black wrote a notable dissent arguing that the Fifth Amendment should apply to states.

[B23] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At the beginning of the novel named after this character, he puts on a pearl necklace belonging to his much older lover Lea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cheri):
    Name this character, whose real name is Fred Peloux. His love for Lea drives him to leave his young wife Edmee.
  Part 2 (ans: Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette):
    This French author of The Vagabond created Cheri. She also wrote many novels about the schoolgirl Claudine and the novella Gigi.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide):
    This fellow French author sent Colette a letter congratulating her for writing Cheri. His own novels include The Pastoral Symphony and The Counterfeiters.
