=== STOCK CLUES: Hilary Mantel ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary Mary Mantel; or Hilary Mary Thompson]
  - A story by this author asks "Who has not seen the door in the wall," using a fire door between number 20 and number 21 to start a philosophical paragraph about how "History could always have been otherwise." Phil and his unnamed wife take a taxi to the Royal Athena Sun hotel in a story by this author, which ends by confirming that their driver ran over a child.
  - This author of "Winter Break" used the phrases "rejoice" and "fucking rejoice" in a story in which an (*) IRA operative shoots a politician.
  - This author wrote "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher." In an interview, this author said that Thatcher had a similar contempt of history as the protagonist of this author's novel The Mirror and the Light.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose trilogy about Thomas Cromwell includes Wolf Hall. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Hilary Mantel [Hilary Mary Mantel]
  - In a novel by this author, Father Angwin is assisted by the mysterious title curate in an English moor village.
  - The semi-autobiographical character Frances Shore joins her husband in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in this author's novel Eight Months on Ghazzah Street.
  - In a story by this author of Fludd, the narrator mistakes an assassin for the "boiler man Duggan" but still lets him use her window for the title "Assassination of Margaret Thatcher." One of this author's protagonists is beaten as a child by Walter at the start of a novel that features the antagonistic bishop Stephen Gardiner.
  - This author's novel The Mirror and the Light is the last in a trilogy that depicts characters such as Thomas Wolsey and Jane Seymour.
  - For 10 points, name this British author who wrote about Thomas Cromwell in Bring Up The Bodies and Wolf Hall. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Hilary Mantel (man-TELL) [or Hilary Mary Mantel]
  - In a story by this author, a resident of Jeddah, who imagines that her furniture is moving during the night, is tormented by an unwanted friendship with the Pakistani man Ijaz.
  - This author's time in Saudi Arabia inspired that short story, "Sorry to Disturb." In a novel that opens in Putney as the protagonist is brutally beaten by his drunkard father Walter, this author created a protagonist who raises Rafe Sadler as his clerk and loses his family to sweating sickness.
  - Her novel The Mirror and the Light will complete a trilogy that has won two Booker Prizes and draws from a cast of historical figures including Stephen Gardiner, Jane Seymour, Thomas Wolsey, and Henry VIII.
  - For 10 points, what British writer portrayed the life of Thomas Cromwell in her novels Bring Up the Bodies and Wolf Hall? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Peter Ackroyd novel, a character with this profession, Nicholas Dyer, seeks human sacrifices for the Satanic rituals he conducts as part of his work. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: architect [or stonemason]):
    Name this profession of a Ken Follett character, who is later forced to become a monk to get a job in Kingsbridge.
  Part 2 (ans: Canterbury [or the Archbishop of Canterbury; or The Canterbury Tales]):
    The archbishop of this region, Thomas Becket, is assassinated in the final section of Ken Follett's The Pillars of the Earth. The "General Prologue" of a collection titled for this region describes a pilgrimage to Becket's shrine.
  Part 3 (ans: Hilary Mantel [Dame Hilary Mary Mantel]):
    In a novel by this author, a king refuses to visit Becket's shrine when he stops at Canterbury. The protagonist is severely beaten by his father, the blacksmith Walter, at the start of a trilogy by this author.

[B2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a book titled for one of these animals, the author describes it as being about "the efforts of a second-rate philosopher who lived alone in a wood... to train a person who was not human." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hawk [accept goshawk or northern goshawk; accept H is for Hawk; accept The Goshawk; prompt on bird]):
    Name this type of animal that titles a memoir by T. H. White. That memoir inspired an alliteratively-titled memoir by Helen Macdonald about her attempt to train one of these animals in the aftermath of her father's death.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary Thompson]):
    Thomas Cromwell trains the falcons that he has named after his deceased wife and children at the opening of Bring Up the Bodies, the second entry of this author's Wolf Hall trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: A Kestrel for a Knave [or Kes]):
    The troubled Yorkshire boy Billy Casper finds and trains the title bird in this novel by Barry Hines. You may give either the full title or the shortened one used for Ken Loach's 1969 film adaptation.

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about depictions of Thomas Cromwell in modern British literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary (Mary) Thompson]):
    Cromwell is the protagonist of a trilogy of novels by this author, which begins with Wolf Hall and ends with 2020's The Mirror & The Light.
  Part 2 (ans: A Man for All Seasons):
    Cromwell bribes Richard Rich to perjure himself and bring about the execution of Thomas More for treason in this play by Robert Bolt.
  Part 3 (ans: The Fifth Queen):
    A similarly villainous depiction of Cromwell is the title character of Privy Seal, the second in this trilogy of historical novels by Ford Madox Ford, which fictionalizes the life of Henry VIII's penultimate wife, Catherine Howard.

[B4] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Right before uttering this phrase, which is accompanied by "one easy wink of the world's blind eye," one character observes a woman's "glittering helmet of hair" "shine like a gold coin in the gutter." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Fucking rejoice." [accept censored answers]):
    Give this two-word phrase uttered at the end of a short story by an IRA militant who pretends to be the boilerman Mr. Duggan.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary Mary Mantel]):
    The words "Fucking rejoice" end this author's controversial story "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher."
  Part 3 (ans: The Satanic Verses (by Salman Rushdie)):
    In this novel, Hal Valance refers to Margaret Thatcher as "Mrs. Torture." At the beginning of this novel, Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta are miraculously saved after falling out of a hijacked airplane.

[B5] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After a meeting with two ambassadors, the protagonist of this novel calls his king the "only prince" and the two title concepts "of other kings." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mirror and the Light):
    Name this novel published in 2020. As its protagonist is beheaded at the end of this book, he hears echoes of his father saying "so now get up."
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    The Mirror and the Light completes this author's trilogy of historical fiction about Thomas Cromwell along with Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies.
  Part 3 (ans: Booker Prize [accept Man Booker Prize; accept Booker Prize for Fiction; do not accept or prompt on "Man Booker International Prize" or "International Booker Prize"]):
    Mantel is one of five authors to have won this prize for fiction multiple times. This prize originally awarded to only Commonwealth writers was expanded to any English-language writer in 2014.

[B6] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist begins an affair with a Lebanese millionaire while working on a film adaptation of Henry James's The Spoils of Poynton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Line of Beauty (by Alan Hollinghurst)):
    Name this novel in which Nick Guest navigates his life as a gay man living with the conservative Fedden family.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; accept Margaret Hilda Roberts]):
    In The Line of Beauty, a coked-out Nick dances with this Prime Minister at an anniversary party. In a controversial short story, an IRA member proclaims, "fucking rejoice!" before assassinating this "Iron Lady."
  Part 3 (ans: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary Mary Mantel; accept Hilary Mary Thompson]):
    "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher" appears in a recent short story collection by this author. This author's novel The Mirror and the Light concluded her monumental trilogy about the life of Thomas Cromwell.

[B7] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Alan Hollinghurst's unpublished M. Litt thesis on this author was expanded into his novel The Swimming Pool Library, in which the narrator Will places the novels of this author on his shelf alongside the diaries of his best friend. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ronald Firbank):
    Identify this early 20th century gay novelist of works like Valmouth and Concerning the Eccentricities of Cardinal Pirelli.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    The first section of Alan Hollinghurst's Booker Prize winning The Line of Beauty is set just after the reelection of Margaret Thatcher, who is also the target of assassination in a story by this author of Wolf Hall.
  Part 3 (ans: Jules Verne):
    For a long time Alan Hollinghurst was the editor of the absurdly niche literary parlour game, Nemo's Almanac whose name could have many sources. One possibility isCaptain Nemo, the protagonist of this author's Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.

[B8] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This short story begins with a description of Trinity Place, the street on which the title event occurs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher - August 6th 1983"):
    Name this short story in which the perpetrator of that event poses as a plumber to gain access to a flat overlooking the back of a hospital.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher is by this British writer who chronicled the life of Thomas Cromwell in Wolf Hall and Bring up the Bodies.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mirror and the Light):
    Hilary Mantel is the first British writer to win the Man Booker Prize twice. This forthcoming third book in her Cromwell trilogy could give her a shot at an unprecedented third win.

[B9] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The upcoming sequel to this book is set to be titled The Mirror and the Light. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bring Up the Bodies):
    Name this 2012 novel that won its author her second Booker Prize. Its protagonist schemes with Lady Rochford and Mark Smeaton to engineer the downfall of Anne Boleyn and avenge his former mentor, Cardinal Wolsey.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel [or Hilary Mary Mantel; or Hilary (Mary) Thompson]):
    Bring Up the Bodies and its predecessor, 2009's Wolf Hall, are the first two novels in a trilogy about Thomas Cromwell written by this English author.
  Part 3 (ans: Ian McEwan [or Ian Russell McEwan]):
    This English author won the Booker Prize for his 1998 novel Amsterdam. Briony Tallis falsely accuses Robbie of rape in his 2001 novel Atonement.

[B10] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about women who have won the Man Booker Prize, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    This only woman to have won this award twice, for Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies. She stirred up controversy with a London Review of Books article about Kate Middleton
  Part 2 (ans: Iris Murdoch):
    Another Booker winner was this prolific Irish-born author, who won in 1978 with The Sea, the Sea.
  Part 3 (ans: Eleanor Catton for The Luminaries ):
    Give the author and work that received the 2013 prize.

[B11] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some British historical novelists, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    The first major British historical novelist was this author of Rob Roy and Ivanhoe. Like Manzoni, he wrote a novel called The Betrothed.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    This author won the 2012 Booker Prize for her novel Bring Up the Bodies, the second novel in her trilogy about Thomas Cromwell.
  Part 3 (ans: Cecil Scott Forester):
    This author is famous for his nautical adventure tales, including The African Queen and the Horatio Hornblower series.

[B12] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Name these British female novelists who wrote inventive historical fiction, FTPE.
  Part 1 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    This author just published Bring Up the Bodies as the second book in her trilogy about Thomas Cromwell that began with the Booker-winning novel Wolf Hall.
  Part 2 (ans: A. S. Byatt):
    She offered a fictionalized version of E. Nesbit called Olive Wellwood in her 2009 book The Children's Hour, and described academics uncovering a hidden romance between Victorian poets Christabel LaMotte and Randolph Henry Ash in Possession.
  Part 3 (ans: Penelope Fitzgerald):
    This author's novels in historical settings include The Gate of Angels and The Beginning of Spring, but she may be best known for her final novel about the German poet Novalis titled The Blue Flower.
