=== STOCK CLUES: Ang Lee ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 8 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: American football teams [accept NFL teams; accept high school football teams; prompt on sports teams or sports organizations] (The Ben Fountain novel and Ang Lee film is Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk.)
  - Nina is cut out of inheriting one of these organizations by her father, Worthington Gill, in Sergio de la Pava's novel Lost Empress. [PWR]
  - Employees of one of these organizations are described as "industrial-sized humans" in a novel whose protagonist falls in love with Faison. [PWR]
  - Mango, Crack, and others are offered a low-ball movie deal by Norm Oglesby, the owner of one of these organizations, in a novel that was adapted into a film shot in 120 frames per second by (*) Ang Lee. [PWR]
  - One of these organizations honors the Bravo Squad at a Destiny's Child concert in a Ben Fountain novel centering on Billy Lynn.
  - Boobie Miles gets injured in a H.
  - G.
  - Bissinger book centering on a high school example of these organizations in Odessa, Texas, that was turned into a TV show starring Kyle Chandler.
  - For 10 points, name these organizations chronicled in books like Friday Night Lights. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film ends with a boy reciting a poem to a shrine of his dead grandmother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yi yi):
    Name this film that opens with Grandmother having a stroke during the wedding of A-Di and Xiao Yan. This film follows NJ and three generations of his family navigating life in Taipei.
  Part 2 (ans: New Wave [or Taiwanese New Wave; or French New Wave; or Taiwanese New Cinema]):
    Yang was part of a Taiwanese film movement titled for this two-word term, which also names a 1960s "French" movement that produced films like Breathless and The 400 Blows.
  Part 3 (ans: Ang Lee):
    This other Taiwan New Wave director created the "Father Knows Best" trilogy and a wuxia ("wu-shee-uh") film centered on the search for the lost Green Destiny sword.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the beginning of a film set in this country, two policewomen let a young mother leave a baby behind in a baby box, only for a pair of men to take it to sell in the adoption black market. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: South Korea [or Republic of Korea; prompt on Korea]):
    Name this country of Broker and a movie in which a migrant becomes entangled with a suspect in the murder of her husband, an immigration officer.
  Part 2 (ans: Ang Lee):
    Tang Wei, the star of Decision to Leave, debuted in a movie by this director titled Lust, Caution. The sword Green Destiny is stolen in a martial arts movie by this director that was a breakout hit in the U.S.
  Part 3 (ans: mountain [or Brokeback Mountain]):
    In Decision to Leave, the detective listens to a Mahler symphony while investigating a murder in one of these places. One of these places titles a movie about two gay cowboys by Ang Lee.

[B3] 2024 ACF Fall (2024) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: A Seth Grahame-Smith novel based on this author's works was adapted into a movie in which Mr Wickham forms an army out of zombies who feed on pig brains. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jane Austen):
    Name this author, whose novels inspired movies such as Pride and Prejudice and Zombies.
  Part 2 (ans: Clueless):
    This movie directed by Amy Heckerling is a loose adaptation of Austen's novel Emma. In this movie, Cher Horowitz's newfound love for doing good deeds leads her to give Tai Frasier a makeover.
  Part 3 (ans: Ang Lee):
    This director had a major commercial success with a 1995 adaptation of Sense and Sensibility. This director later depicted the homosexual relationship between two cowboys in the film Brokeback Mountain.

[B4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this film, a man singing "Why" by Frankie Avalon with a band in an ice cream parlor hands the microphone over to a boy who stands up to finish the song. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Brighter Summer Day):
    Name this film about the junior high schoolers Si'r and Cat whose English title comes from the lyrics to the song "Are You Lonesome Tonight." In this film, the leader of the Little Park Boys is killed by Shandong, the leader of a rival gang called the 217s.
  Part 2 (ans: Taiwan [or Republic of China; reject "People's Republic of China" or "China"] {The director is Ang Lee.}):
    A Brighter Summer Day is a film from this country's New Wave cinema movement along with The Assassin and The Puppetmaster. A director from this country made the films A One and a Two and Eat Drink Man Woman.
  Part 3 (ans: Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon [or Wohu Canglong]):
    This 2000 film directed by Ang Lee was based on a Chinese novel by Wang Dulu and is credited with reviving the wuxia ("woo-shah") genre of martial arts-based fiction.

[B5] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A director from this country used long takes and minimal camera movement in films like A City of Sadness, which focused on previously taboo historical tragedies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Taiwan [or Republic of China or ROC or Zhonghua Minguo; do not accept or prompt on "China","People's Republic of China", or "PRC"]):
    Name this country. The film A Brighter Summer Day also delves into its political history, while Vive l'Amour focuses on the disconnect of this country's urban citizenry.
  Part 2 (ans: Ang Lee [or Li An]):
    This director examined Taiwanese modernity in his "Father Knows Best" trilogy. This director also revived the wuxia genre with a film scored by Tan Dun and starring Michelle Yeoh as Yu Shu Lien.
  Part 3 (ans: New Wave [accept Nouvelle Vague]):
    Ang Lee is the second generation of a Taiwanese movement with this name. A pioneering French movement of the 1960s with this name included directors like Jean-Luc Godard, Francois Truffaut, and Agnes Varda.

[B6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Current Events
     Leadin: This author coined the term "country noir" to describe his 1996 novel Give Us a Kiss. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Woodrell):
    Name this author from Missouri whose novel Winter's Bone was adapted into a 2010 film of the same name starring Jennifer Lawrence.
  Part 2 (ans: Ozarks [accept Ozark Mountains or Ozark Plateau or Lake of the Ozarks]):
    Woodrell lives in, and sets most of his novels in, this hilly region of Missouri that extends into Arkansas and Oklahoma. Its namesake "lake" is created by the impounding of the Osage River.
  Part 3 (ans: Ang Lee):
    Woodrell's novel Woe to Live On was adapted into the film Ride with the Devil by this director, who adapted Rick Moody's novel The Ice Storm into a 1997 film of the same name.
