=== STOCK CLUES: Goldsmith ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 26 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Kenneth Goldsmith
  - This author compared the archival tendencies on the modern internet to quilters at Gee's Bend and the work of Andy Warhol in an essay asserting that "Archiving is the New Folk Art." This author incongruously reflected on the cruel history of the chain gang in his forward to Olivia Lochner's photobook I Fought the Law, which is about the silliest law in each U.S. state. [PWR]
  - A 600-page poem by this author consisting of thousands of phrases ending with an 'r' sound has its lines sorted alphabetically. [PWR]
  - This poet documented every movement his body made and every word he said in a day in the poems Fidget and Soliloquy. [PWR]
  - This usually dripped out Penn professor drew controversy for a Yale reading of a poem derived from the autopsy report of Michael Brown. [PWR]
  - This advocate of so-called"uncreative writing" and author of Wasting Time on the Internet transcribed a year's worth of weather reports for the poem Weather and retyped a single issue of the New York Times in the poem Day.
  - For 15 points, name this American postmodern poet and conceptual artist who once ran the online avant-garde literature and art archive UbuWeb. [PWR]
  - (*) [PWR]

[T2] 2024 Notes on the Underground (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Canada (The third sentence refers to Milton Acorn. Oliver Goldsmith, great nephew of Oliver Goldsmith, wrote The Rising Village.)
  - A poet born in this modern-day country wrote about a "swarthy bee" as a "buccaneer" sailing the "sea of clover" in the poem "A More Ancient Mariner." With an older colleague, a poet born in this country who belonged to a traditional verse group known as The Song Fishermen wrote an 1890s trilogy of collections of folksy poems written from the perspective of drifters called Songs from Vagabondia. [PWR]
  - A so-called "people's poet" from this country was inspired by one of its native trees to create a sonnet variant characterized by its jagged lines.
  - A 19th-century poet born in this modern-day country responded to a poem written by his (*) identically-named great uncle in his poem The Rising Village. [PWR]
  - The documentary Poetry in Motion features a segment about a group of sound poets from this country called The Four Horsemen.
  - Though he spent most of his life in the U.S., the poet Bliss Carman was born in and was later named the Poet Laureate of this country.
  - A 1907 collection dramatizing events in this country was titled Songs of A Sourdough.
  - For 10 points, name this modern-day country where Bliss Carman, Charles G.D. [GIVE]
  - Roberts, Archibald Lampman, and Duncan Campbell Scott made up the Confederation Poets.

[T3] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Oliver Goldsmith
  - This author's first play flopped because it was overshadowed by Hugh Kelly's awful comedy False Delicacy.
  - Audiences hissed during the "low" scene of that play by this author, in which Miss Richland discovers two bailiffs accosting Honeywood.
  - An essay by this author unfavorably compares the "bastard tragedy" of sentimental comedy with "laughing comedy." This author's final play includes a comic scene in which a man prevents an unwanted marriage by driving his mother around a house in circles before dumping her in a (*) horsepond. [PWR]
  - In a play by this author, the song "Let schoolmasters puzzle their brain / With grammar, and nonsense, and learning" is sung by Tony, who then pranks the protagonist by directing him to a local house and telling him it's an inn.
  - That prank causes the normally shy Marlow to court a maid who turns out to be Kate Hardcastle.
  - For 10 points, name this eighteenth-century British author of the comedies The Good Natur'd Man and She Stoops to Conquer. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Goldsmith 
  - One poet with this surname created a project called "Printing out the Internet," which filled a gallery with ten tons of paper. [PWR]
  - That poet with this surname was widely criticized for creating a found poem out of an autopsy report for his "The Body of Michael Brown." A quote from a different poet with this surname provides the title of Tony Judt's book Ill Fares the Land. [PWR]
  - That passage goes on to state that "a bold peasantry, their country's pride, / When once destroyed, can never be supplied." An author with this surname wrote about Sophia being rescued from (*) drowning by Mr.
  - Burchell in a novel where Olivia fakes her death and obtains her marriage license to Squire Thornhill.
  - For 10 points, give the shared surname of conceptual poet Kenneth, and the author of "The Deserted Village" and The Vicar of Wakefield, Oliver. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Samuel Johnson made edits to both this poem and a sarcastic response by George Crabbe that asked "Is there a place, save one the poet sees, / A land of love, of liberty, and ease?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Deserted Village" (by Oliver Goldsmith)):
    What 1770 poem in heroic couplets laments the loss of "light labour," "the rural virtues," and a "bold peasantry" while describing "Sweet Auburn"?
  Part 2 (ans: "wealth accumulates" OR "men decay"):
    While surveying the ruin of the deserted village, Oliver Goldsmith's speaker claims "Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey / where" two things happen. Name either.
  Part 3 (ans: country [accept "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"]):
    In The Task, William Cowper ("Cooper") similarly wrote that "God made [this place], and man made the town." A Thomas Gray elegy is set in a churchyard described by this word.

[B2] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Pauline Oliveros directed this institute after it moved to Mills College in 1966. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: San Francisco Tape Music Center [or SFTMC; accept Mills Tape Music Center or MTMC; accept Center for Contemporary Music or CCM]):
    Name this institute co-founded by Ramon Sender and Morton Subotnick that premiered Terry Riley's In C. This institute commissioned Don Buchla's modular "Box," whose use defined the more experimental "West Coast" synthesizer style.
  Part 2 (ans: delay [or tape delay or delay line; accept delay pedal or delay unit; prompt on looping, feedback, echo, or automatic double-tracking or doubling; reject "decay"]):
    The erase/record ("erase re-CORD") and playback heads on an Echoplex's ("echo-plex's") tape loop were adjusted to create this effect long before Boss's DD-8 digital pedals. Flanging, chorus, and reverb are based on this effect, a signal mixed with its copy after some milliseconds.
  Part 3 (ans: Jerry Goldsmith [or Jerrald King Goldsmith]):
    An echoplexed two-pitch trumpet ostinato and Indian conch shell depict a haunting cemetery and wind in this composer's scores for Patton and Alien. Arthur Morton orchestrated for this film composer of Planet of the Apes and the original Rambo and Star Trek.

[B3] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Note to moderator: "Freindship" is the original spelling. In an epistolary one of these works, Laura advises her friend's daughter never to faint after Sophia dies of illness caused by fainting in rainy weather. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jane Austen's Juvenilia):
    Give the term for these texts, one of which is accompanied by watercolor miniatures made by the writer's sister Cassandra. These works include The History of England and Love and Freindship.
  Part 2 (ans: sensibility [reject "sense"]):
    In one of her juvenilia, Austen describes "the different effects of" this concept as she watches Melissa lie ill in her bed. This is the second of the two title concepts in Austen's novel about the Dashwood sisters.
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith (The play is She Stoops to Conquer.)):
    Austen's History of England parodies this writer's own History of England. In a play by this author, Kate pretends to be a barmaid at an inn in order to attract Marlow's interest.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: To see if a woman had left her taste on his lips, a man in this play who frequently calls others "'sheartlikens" kisses his friend Fred on the mouth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Rover):
    Name this play in which Hellena is told "there's no Sinner like a young Saint" while at Carnival. In this play, Blunt is seduced by Lucetta, who drops him down a trap door and steals his valuables after he takes off his clothes.
  Part 2 (ans: comedy [or comedies; accept Restoration comedies or comedy of manners or anti-sentimental comedies or Greek comedies or Old Comedy; prompt on drama or theatre]):
    Aphra Behn's The Rover exemplifies the "Restoration" period of this genre that flourished under Charles II. The Clouds is an ancient Greek example of this genre by Aristophanes.
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith (The play is She Stoops to Conquer.)):
    Interest in comedies of manners after the Restoration was revived in part due to a play by this author. Kate Hardcastle pretends to be a barmaid to woo Charles Marlow in a play by this author.

[B5] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Two visitors to this place give insults such as "damn your pig" and "damn your prune sauce" in response to every dish they are offered. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hardcastle house [accept descriptions like the house or estate from She Stoops to Conquer]):
    Name this place. A man declares "there's not a pond or a slough within five miles of" this place "but they can tell the taste of" after running a carriage in circles around this place and crashing into a horse-pond.
  Part 2 (ans: Kate [accept Kate Hardcastle; accept Kate Minola or Katherina Minola (from The Taming of the Shrew)]):
    A woman with this first name dresses as a barmaid to woo Charles Marlow in the Hardcastle house. In another play, a woman with this first name gives a speech concluding that "our lances are but straws."
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    This author of The Vicar of Wakefield drew from the time he accidentally walked into a private mansion in writing about Charles Marlow's mistaking the Hardcastle house for an inn in his play She Stoops to Conquer.

[B6] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character has an arrangement with her father to dress with different levels of lavishness, depending upon the time of day. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: KateHardcastle [accept either underlined name]):
    Name this character, who attracts Charles Marlow's attention with her "refined simplicity" rather than her family's fortune while in disguise as a barmaid.
  Part 2 (ans: finished his sentences [or equivalents]):
    Against his father's wishes, Charles Marlow ultimately proposes to Kate, in spite of the fact that during their first conversation, she repeatedly performed this action.
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    Kate Hardcastle dresses as a barmaid to attract the attention of Charles Marlow in She Stoops to Conquer, a play by this British author of The Vicar of Wakefield.

[B7] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The protagonist of a 1974 movie previously worked with Lieutenant Lou Escobar in this place. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chinatown [or, more specifically, Los Angeles' Chinatown; prompt on Los Angeles]):
    Name this place. At the end of that movie, detective Jake Gittes, played by Jack Nicholson, fails to prevent the police from killing Evelyn Mulwray in this place.
  Part 2 (ans: film noir):
    Chinatown is an example of the "neo-" variety of this kind of film. This term, which is usually applied to gritty crime dramas, comes from the fact that they were often shot in black-and-white.
  Part 3 (ans: Jerry Goldsmith):
    This composer composed the score for Chinatown in only ten days. This man used the "blaster beam" to voice the character of V'Ger in his iconic score for Star Trek: The Motion Picture.

[B8] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of a play, three characters of this profession present a "bob of cherries," a bird, and a tennis ball. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: shepherds [accept The Second Shepherd's Play]):
    Name this profession of Coll, Gib, and Daw, who thwart the thief Mak and his wife Gill in an anonymous medieval play written in a nine-line stanza form.
  Part 2 (ans: Wakefield [accept The Vicar of Wakefield by Oliver Goldsmith]):
    The Second Shepherd's Play, like other mystery plays in the HM1 manuscript, are attributed to a "master" named for this town. Dr. Primrose's family loses and regains their fortune in a 1766 novel titled for this town.
  Part 3 (ans: the plow [accept Piers Plowman or "God Spede the Plough"]):
    The complaints about taxation in The Second Shepherd's Play resemble those in a medieval poem that asks God to "speed" this object. Piers uses this farming implement in a Middle English poem by William Langland.

[B9] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In an account by Sir John Hawkins, the man central to this event stabbed himself in each leg with a pair of scissors to drain the fluid that had accumulated from dropsy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the death of Samuel Johnson [accept any reasonable equivalent]):
    Name this event, which concludes a book in which it was preceded by the central man saying "God bless you, my dear!" to Miss Morris. Dr. Richard Brocklesby reported that that man's "fears were calmed and absorbed by... his trust in the merits and propitiation of Jesus Christ" during this event. A description is fine.
  Part 2 (ans: James Boswell):
    Johnson's lifelong fear of death was a key motif in this Scottish writer's account of The Life of Samuel Johnson. He recounted Johnson's skepticism about the Ossian poems in his Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides.
  Part 3 (ans: The Deserted Village (by Oliver Goldsmith. Crabbe's poem is called "The Village")):
    Johnson contributed the last two couplets to this poem by another author, which warns "Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey / Where wealth accumulates, and men decay." It inspired a pessimistic poem by George Crabbe.

[B10] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character dedicates a song opening "Let schoolmasters puzzle their brain / With grammar, and nonsense, and learning" to the Three Pigeons alehouse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tony Lumpkin [accept either]):
    Name this character who tricks Charles Marlow and his friend Hastings into believing that his family's manor is an inn, setting the plot of the play in which he appears into motion.
  Part 2 (ans: She Stoops to Conquer [or Mistakes of a Night]):
    Tony Lumpkin is a relative of Kate Hardcastle, who pretends to be a barmaid to seduce Marlow in this Laughing Comedy, which contains a prologue by David Garrick attacking popular sentimental comedies.
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    She Stoops to Conquer is the most famous play of this Anglo-Irish author of "A Haunch of Venison" and The Vicar of Wakefield.

[B11] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Current Events
     Leadin: For 10 points each answer the following on the nauseating habit of people in British politics comparing one another to Islamic terrorists:
  Part 1 (ans: Brexit (accept descriptive answers)):
    Centrist Conservative MP Claire Perry argued that "I feel sometimes I am sitting along with colleagues who are like jihadis in their support for" the hard form of this political event, predicted to take place in 2019.
  Part 2 (ans: Scottish National Party):
    Serena Cowdy compared several members of this party with whom she had conducted illicit relationships, a "sexy Mujahideen." This party's deputy leader Stewart Hosie was forced to resign as a result while leader Nicola Sturgeon publically hugged his wife Shona Robertson.
  Part 3 (ans: Zac Goldsmith):
    This Conservative politician and former MP for Richmond Park repeatedly tried to link Sadiq Khan to extremist groups during the London mayoral election leading him to be publically called out by his muslim sister Jemima Khan.

[B12] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the David Garrick-authored prologue to this play, Mr. Woodward laments the decline of sentimental comedy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: She Stoops to Conquer):
    Name this play which begins with George Hastings and his friend Charles Marlow getting lost and ending up in the Three Pigeons Alehouse.
  Part 2 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    This Irish author of The Vicar of Wakefield wrote of Kate Hardcastle's attempts to snag Marlow in She Stoops to Conquer.
  Part 3 (ans: the Hardcastle manor [accept any synonyms for "house"]):
    The plot of the play proceeds with Kate's step-brother Tony Lumpkin playing a practical joke on Marlow and Hastings by directing them to an "inn" which is actually this place.

[B13] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote a series of letters attributed to a Chinese traveler named Lien Chi that were published under the title The Citizen of the World. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    Name this author who may also be the origin of the phrase "goody two-shoes." He lamented the depopulation of "Sweet Auburn!" in his poem "The Deserted Village" and penned a novel whose title churchman is Charles Primrose.
  Part 2 (ans: She Stoops to Conquer):
    Goldsmith's most famous dramatic work is this play, in which Kate Hardcastle pretends to be a low-class serving maid to get Charles Marlow to fall in love with her.
  Part 3 (ans: Arabella [accept Arabella Wilmot or Arabella Donn]):
    In the aforementioned The Vicar of Wakefield, Primrose's sudden bankruptcy temporarily prevents his son George from marrying a woman with this first name. Another character with this first name gives birth to a child nicknamed "Little Father Time" after Jude Fawley leaves her.

[B14] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book is the source of the adages "It is better to live rich, than to die rich," and "Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Life of Johnson [or Life of Samuel Johnson, LL.D.]):
    Name this lengthy, digressive book, teased by the author's earlier The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, which describes its author's time with a slovenly wit who loved his favorite cat Hodge and wrote The Vanity of Human Wishes.
  Part 2 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    Boswell's Life of Johnson preserves a conversation in which this poet made Johnson laugh by telling him a fable about fishes wanting to become birds, then responded: "if you were to make little fishes talk, they would talk likes WHALES." The Three Jolly Pigeons alehouse is the setting of this author's play She Stoops to Conquer.
  Part 3 (ans: Abraham Cowley):
    In the entry of his own series of biographies, The Lives of the Poets, about this man, Johnson criticized his "discovery of occult resemblances in things apparently unlike" and remarked that "those writers who lay on the watch for novelty, could have little hope of greatness," turning critical consensus against this man's style of poetry until its reputation was rescued by a 1921 T.S. Eliot essay.

[B15] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem attacks the rich man's "loads of freighted ore" by claiming, "This wealth is but a name / That leaves with useful products still the same" before concluding, "The country blooms a garden and a grave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Deserted Village"):
    Name this poem that describes "those poisonous fields with rank luxuriance crowned." The speaker of this poem laments, "Amidst thy bowers the tyrant's hand is seen" and "trade's proud empire hastes to swift decay."
  Part 2 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    "The Deserted Village" is an attack on the enclosure movement by this author, who compared the problems of various nations in The Traveller. He also wrote The Vicar of Wakefield and She Stoops to Conquer.
  Part 3 (ans: The Rover [or The Banish'd Cavaliers]):
    The title She Stoops to Conquer was possibly inspired by the lines "Despise the man that lays a Tyrant's Claim / To what he ought to conquer by submission" from this Restoration comedy by Aphra Behn, in which Willmore and his gang of Englishmen visit Naples for Carnival.

[B16] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, an old shepherd plaintively gazes at a "withered tree" that was once ft for a boy to climb, but that has been reduced to a "sad emblem now." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Village):
    Name this long, two-book 1783 poem, which mocks an apothecary who "frst insults the victim who he kills," and sym-pathizes with the inhabitants of a parish workhouse.
  Part 2 (ans: Oliver Goldsmith):
    George Crabbe wrote The Village in response to the unabashed romanticism of "The Deserted Village," a poem by this English author of She Stoops to Conquer.
  Part 3 (ans: heroic couplets Extra Bonus):
    Crabbe's poetry is primarily written in this form, commonly used in epic poetry, consisting of pairs of rhyming line writ-ten in iambic pentameter. Dryden mastered this form, which Pope used to write The Rape of the Lock and Nabokov used for the title poem in Pale Fire.
