=== STOCK CLUES: Charles Perrault ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The common name for this stock character was popularized by Andrew Lang's translation of stories by Madame d'Aulnoy that appeared in The Blue Fairy Book and The Green Fairy Book. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Prince Charming [accept King Charming; prompt on prince]):
    Name this stock character who, in a Madame d'Aulnoy fairy tale, is transformed into a blue bird who visits and sings with a character trapped in a tower.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    The name "charming" was inspired by a passage from this author's published version of "Sleeping Beauty." This author's collection Tales from Past Times was translated into English as Mother Goose Tales and includes a popular version of "Puss in Boots."
  Part 3 (ans: fairy godmother [prompt on partial answer]):
    Prince Charming is transformed into a blue bird by Mazilla, who serves as an evil version of this stock role for Truitonne. A good version of this stock role helps Cinderella attend the ball with her magic.

[B2] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The American version of the video game Castlevania: Symphony of the Night stole the quote "What is a man? A miserable little pile of secrets" from this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Malraux):
    Name this author of a 1968 collection of "anti-memoirs." Ch'en Ta Erh dies in an unsuccessful suicide bombing meant to kill Chiang Kai-Shek in his novel Man's Fate.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Paul Sartre):
    This author coined the term "anti-novel" in his preface to Nathalie Sarraute's book Portrait of a Man Unknown. This existentialist wrote the play No Exit.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Many anti-tales, or fairy tales which have tragic endings, were adapted from stories compiled by this 17th-century Frenchman who wrote Tales of Mother Goose and the original "Cinderella."

[B3] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: An aging professor is killed by Lady Purple, a marionette whom he brings to life, in one of the "nine profane pieces" that comprise this author's first short story collection, Fireworks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Angela Carter [or Angela Olive Carter-Pearce]):
    Name this British author whose story "The Company of Wolves" describes how Little Red Riding Hood sleeps with the wolf instead of fighting.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Angela Carter was commissioned to translate the fairy tales of this French author into English during the 1970s. He adopted the persona of Mother Goose in his Stories of Fairy Tales from Past Times with Morals.
  Part 3 (ans: The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffmann):
    In this 1972 novel by Angela Carter, the title things must be destroyed Desiderio. The title devices of this novel harvest "eroto-energy" to create a new reality developed by their creator.

[B4] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following about the conflict between the Ancients and the Moderns in literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Members of the Academie Francaise were outraged when this author read them a poem that contained the couplet, "And it was just as right for us to praise / The Age of Louis as Augustus' days." This author of The Age of Louis the Great popularized stories like "Bluebeard".
  Part 2 (ans: Nicolas Boileau-Despreaux):
    One of those outraged academics was this Classicist whose Le Lutrin is a mock epic about where to place a lectern. His 1674 L'Art poetique outlined various classical rules that authors should follow.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    Bentley steals the armor of Phalaris and Aesop in an episode from this Anglo-Irish author's satire of the war between the two parties titled The Battle of the Books. One of his novels is partially set in Lilliput.
