=== STOCK CLUES: Perrault ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 8 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Geography
     Answer: wishes [or equivalents like hopes or desires; accept wishbones or wishing wells or Wish Tree or "Les Souhaits ridicules"; prompt on bones or wells by asking "what kind?"; prompt on furcula by asking "what is its common name?"; prompt on tags or paper by asking "what do they represent?"] (Wishbones still hanging in McSorley's represent the men who never came back from World War I; the Perrault story is "Les Souhaits ridicules"; the Yoko Ono installation is Wish Tree.)
  - Men going to fight in World War I left objects named for these things hanging in McSorley's Old Ale House.
  - Offerings for guardian deities like Coventina may have originated a practice for acquiring these things.
  - In a Charles Perrault  story, a black pudding craving causes a couple to use these things ridiculously.
  - In Jain cosmology, kalpavrikshas are trees that provide these things.
  - Visitors tie these things to trees in a Yoko Ono project named for them, and the senbazuru is another method for obtaining them.
  - In a Thanksgiving game, two people pull simultaneously to break an object named for these things.
  - Sadako Sasaki began folding one thousand cranes to receive one of these things.
  - For 10 points, children blow on dandelions to make what magical demands? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The common name for this stock character was popularized by Andrew Lang's translation of stories by Madame d'Aulnoy that appeared in The Blue Fairy Book and The Green Fairy Book. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Prince Charming [accept King Charming; prompt on prince]):
    Name this stock character who, in a Madame d'Aulnoy fairy tale, is transformed into a blue bird who visits and sings with a character trapped in a tower.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    The name "charming" was inspired by a passage from this author's published version of "Sleeping Beauty." This author's collection Tales from Past Times was translated into English as Mother Goose Tales and includes a popular version of "Puss in Boots."
  Part 3 (ans: fairy godmother [prompt on partial answer]):
    Prince Charming is transformed into a blue bird by Mazilla, who serves as an evil version of this stock role for Truitonne. A good version of this stock role helps Cinderella attend the ball with her magic.

[B2] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Book of the City of Ladies, Lady Rectitude commends this woman for returning to plan a marquis's wedding. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Griselda [accept Patient Griselda]):
    Many European folktales describe what woman obediently enduring cruel tests by her husband? In a version of her story, Gualtieri ("g'wal-T'YAIR-ee") pretends to put her children to death.
  Part 2 (ans: The Decameron [or Il Decamerone]):
    The latter version of the Griselda story appears in this Boccaccio ("bo-KAH-cho") work, in which ten Florentines tell each other stories during a plague outbreak.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Perrault ("sharl peh-ROH")):
    This author wrote a 1695 novella adapting the Griselda story. The stories "Diamonds and Toads" and "Bluebeard" appear in this French author's collection of fairy tales attributed to Mother Goose.

[B3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Leadin: A genderbent version of this character storms out after learning that her ungrateful master planned to throw her dead body out a window in a Giambattista Basile tale. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Puss in Boots [or Der gestiefelte Kater, Il gatto con gli stival, le Maitre chat, or Le Chat botte; accept Master Cat; prompt on Cat as a Helper] ("Lucky Constantino" is by Giovanni Straparola. The Marquis of Carabas is from Perrault's account.)):
    Name this compassionate fae who feigns the drowning of "Lucky Constantino" so that he can marry the princess. In another tale, this character dresses up a poor miller's son as the Marquis of Carabas.
  Part 2 (ans: mouse [or mice]):
    In Perrault's ("peh-ROH's") account, Puss consumes an ogre in the guise of this animal to secure a castle for the Marquis. Six of these animals transform into dapple gray horses in Perrault's version of "Cinderella."
  Part 3 (ans: thumb [accept Hop on My Thumb, Hop o' My Thumb, Little Thumbling, Little Thumb, Little Poucet, Le petit Poucet; accept Tom Thumb]):
    In another Perrault tale, a character named "Hop on My [this object]" tricks an ogre into killing his daughters by exchanging their crowns with nightcaps. A Round Table knight named for this object dies from a spider-bite.

[B4] 2021 Glasgow Scottie (2021) | Diff: 4 | Literature
     Leadin: Long before Hans Christian Anderson and the Brothers Grimm came onto the scene, this Frenchman popularized the fairy tale. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Name this seventeenth century French author of such classics as "Cinderella," "Tom Thumb," and "Little Red Riding Hood."
  Part 2 (ans: "Puss in Boots" [accept "Master Cat" or the "Booted Cat"]):
    Perrault wrote a version of this fairy tale in which a feline with distinct footwear helps his master to win the hand of a princess.
  Part 3 (ans: Tales of Mother Goose [or Stories or Tales from Times Past, with Morals; accept Histoires ou contes du temps passe, avec des moralites: Contes de ma mere l'Oye]):
    Many of Perrault's fairy tales were included in this collection titled for its supposed author, who may or may not have been the widow of Isaac Goose.

[B5] 2021 DART (2021) | Diff: 4 | Literature
     Leadin: This character claims he "didn't have time to store up any food" during the summer since he was "busy making music." For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Grasshopper):
    Name this character, who in one fable, starves through the winter after begging ants for "a bite to eat."
  Part 2 (ans: Aesop):
    The Ants and the Grasshopper is a fable by this author, whose other fables include one in which a tortoise defeats a hare in a race,
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    This later French fabulist was hired by the king to design a series of hydraulic statues based on Aesop's fables for his 6-year-old son. He is famous for collecting stories like "Cinderella" and "Puss in Boots."

[B6] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The American version of the video game Castlevania: Symphony of the Night stole the quote "What is a man? A miserable little pile of secrets" from this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Malraux):
    Name this author of a 1968 collection of "anti-memoirs." Ch'en Ta Erh dies in an unsuccessful suicide bombing meant to kill Chiang Kai-Shek in his novel Man's Fate.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Paul Sartre):
    This author coined the term "anti-novel" in his preface to Nathalie Sarraute's book Portrait of a Man Unknown. This existentialist wrote the play No Exit.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Many anti-tales, or fairy tales which have tragic endings, were adapted from stories compiled by this 17th-century Frenchman who wrote Tales of Mother Goose and the original "Cinderella."

[B7] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: In an update to one of these types of works in the 1970s, the title Tiger's Bride is licked so thoroughly that her skin gives way to animal fur. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fairy tales [or folk tales; accept folklore]):
    Identify these types of works that provided the source material for Angela Carter's The Bloody Chamber. The Aarne-Thompson indices are used to classify them.
  Part 2 (ans: Grimm [or Brothers Grimm; or Bruder Grimm; or the Grimms; accept Grimms' Fairy Tales]):
    Two brothers with this last name collected German folk tales such as "Hansel and Gretel" into their book Children's and Household Tales, which is more often known in English by their name.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Angela Carter also wrote her own take on Puss-in-Boots, a character first brought to a wide readership by this French author. This member of the Academie francaise also popularized Sleeping Beauty and Little Red Riding Hood.

[B8] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: An aging professor is killed by Lady Purple, a marionette whom he brings to life, in one of the "nine profane pieces" that comprise this author's first short story collection, Fireworks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Angela Carter [or Angela Olive Carter-Pearce]):
    Name this British author whose story "The Company of Wolves" describes how Little Red Riding Hood sleeps with the wolf instead of fighting.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Angela Carter was commissioned to translate the fairy tales of this French author into English during the 1970s. He adopted the persona of Mother Goose in his Stories of Fairy Tales from Past Times with Morals.
  Part 3 (ans: The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffmann):
    In this 1972 novel by Angela Carter, the title things must be destroyed Desiderio. The title devices of this novel harvest "eroto-energy" to create a new reality developed by their creator.

[B9] 2017 British Novice (2017) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: Aarne and Thompson developed a system to categorise this genre of works. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fairy tales [or folktales; or folklore; or other reasonable equivalents]):
    Name these stories, such as one where a miller's daughter finds her betrothed is part of a gang of murderers, and one where two children find a house made of sugar and cake in the forest.
  Part 2 (ans: The Brothers Grimm [or Jacob Ludwig Carl Grimm; or Wilhelm Carl Grimm]):
    "The Robber Bridegroom" and "Hansel and Gretel" are amongst the fairy tales collected by these two German brothers, Jacob and Wilhelm.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Another author of fairy tales was this 17th-century Frenchman, who wrote the original versions of Cinderella, Little Red Riding Hood and Sleeping Beauty.

[B10] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following about the conflict between the Ancients and the Moderns in literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Perrault):
    Members of the Academie Francaise were outraged when this author read them a poem that contained the couplet, "And it was just as right for us to praise / The Age of Louis as Augustus' days." This author of The Age of Louis the Great popularized stories like "Bluebeard".
  Part 2 (ans: Nicolas Boileau-Despreaux):
    One of those outraged academics was this Classicist whose Le Lutrin is a mock epic about where to place a lectern. His 1674 L'Art poetique outlined various classical rules that authors should follow.
  Part 3 (ans: Jonathan Swift):
    Bentley steals the armor of Phalaris and Aesop in an episode from this Anglo-Irish author's satire of the war between the two parties titled The Battle of the Books. One of his novels is partially set in Lilliput.
