=== STOCK CLUES: Dream of the Red Chamber ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 55 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or A Dream of Red Mansions; or Hong lou meng; prompt on Redology]
  - An early commentator on this work had a pseudonym meaning "Inkstone Studio." John Minford helped complete the seminal English translation of this work by David Hawkes.
  - A significant dispute in this work's namesake "-ology" centers on whether its last forty chapters were a later addition to its first eighty chapters.
  - Feminist criticism of this work often contrasts the female-dominated space of the Grand View Garden with the patriarchal outside world and discusses the 12 Beauties of Jinling.
  - In this novel, the Disenchantment Fairy is visited by a priest and a monk carrying the protagonist, who is reincarnated as a boy with a piece of jade in his mouth.
  - For 10 points, the tragic love story of Jia Baoyu and Lin Daiyu is detailed in what classic Chinese novel? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: dreams [or meng; accept Dream of the Red Chamber, A Dream of Red Mansions, or Honglou Meng; prompt on The Story of the Stone or Shitou Ji with "What sort of event provides the other common title?"] (All clues use volume one of the Hawkes translation, Golden Days.)
  - After one of these events, a character conducts what is euphemistically called "his first experiment in the Art of Love" with the maid Aroma. [PWR]
  - During one of these events, a character listens to a song suite titled for "Golden Days" and reads a couplet beginning "Truth becomes fiction when the fiction's true." A novel's fifth chapter describes one of these events in which a character reads allegorical poems about the 12 Beauties of Jinling in the Land of (*) Illusion. [PWR]
  - In most translations, this kind of event titles a novel in which a priest and a monk take a piece of Nuwa's heavenly wall to the mortal world.
  - In that novel titled for this sort of event, Jia Baoyu is born with a piece of jade in his mouth.
  - For 10 points, a Cao Xueqin novel is often translated as what sort of event "of the Red Chamber?" [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: stone [or jade; or shitou; or yu; or descriptions of the magic stone that is born as Jia Baoyu, Jia Baoyu's piece of jade, or the stone from Story of the Stone, Dream of the Red Chamber, Shitou Ji, or Honglou Meng; accept rock, gem, jewel, or equivalents of any; accept Jia Baoyu until read; prompt on Jia until read]
  - Description acceptable.
  - A verse written with a planchette suggests that this object is lying under an "old pine" after its disappearance causes its owner to lose his wits.
  - A man on a boat realizes the significance of this object after having a vision of his son in a crimson robe, walking barefoot in the snow and singing about Greensickness Peak.
  - In the first chapter, a priest and a monk carry this object to the fairy Disenchantment's palace in the Land of Illusion through an arch inscribed with the words "Truth becomes fiction when the fiction's true." After a goddess neglects to use it to repair the sky, this object and its beloved Crimson Pearl Flower are born into the human world, where it shows up in a newborn boy's mouth.
  - For 10 points, Jia Baoyu is an incarnation of what object that alternately titles Cao Xueqin's  Dream of the Red Chamber? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng; or Shitou Ji]
  - This book includes a poem in which the "frenzy of poetry" creeps over idle people "Day and night," which appears shortly before several poems about savoring crab meat.
  - The speaker of a poem in this book is "wounded at heart" as she feels both resentment and regret over Spring, because "suddenly it comes and suddenly goes." A couplet about the "Great Void" in this book states "When false is taken for true, true becomes false; / If non-being turns into being, being becomes non-being." In this book, a (*) poetry contest leads a group of friends to write twelve poems about chrysanthemums.
  - The speaker of a poem in this book asks "who will bury me when dead I lie" after relating how men laugh at her for burying some flowers.
  - In this book, a Taoist priest reads verses about "a former and after life" on a stone.
  - For 10 points, a stone is reborn into Jia Baoyu in what classic Chinese novel by Cao Xueqin ? [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber [or A Dream of Red Mansions or Hongloumeng; accept The Story of the Stone or Chronicles of the Stone or Shitou ji]
  - One character in this novel is inspired by a play about a drunk monk to say, "If there is no 'I' then neither is there 'you.'" While two characters in this novel exchange lines from a romantic play, one of them is brought to tears on a line about falling flowers. [PWR]
  - After one character in this novel is beaten for sheltering an actor, a misunderstanding leads another character to symbolically bury flower petals. [PWR]
  - A man in this novel runs away to become a monk after the death of his lover, who was a (*) reincarnation of a flower that he watered in a previous life. [PWR]
  - An inscription on a golden locket predestines this novel's protagonist to marry his cousin, Xue  Baochai.
  - A request from a stone in this novel's frame story results in its reincarnation as a piece of jade in the mouth of Jia Baoyu.
  - For 10 points, name this 18th-century Chinese novel by Cao Xueqin . [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber [or Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng; orShitou Ji]
  - In this novel, one character is told a prophecy that begins "the high official's fortune will decline."A translation of this book, which gives characters more Latin names like Sapientia and Adamantina, was created by David Hawkes. [PWR]
  - In two scenes from this novel, a man falls ill after a begonia tree fails to bloom and several maids are accused of infidelity after an embroidered purse is found. [PWR]
  - Though much of this novel takes place in the (*) Prospect Garden, it begins in The Void, where the goddess Nuwa rejects a piece of jade that ends up in the protagonist's mouth when he is born. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Chinese novel written by Cao Xueqin that follows the life of Jia Baoyu and the Jia family. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone or other translations such as A Dream of Red Mansions; also accept Shitou ji]
  - The first section of this novel references the designation of "truth under the garb of fiction" and describes 36,501 blocks of "rough stone" in a couplet. [PWR]
  - The phrase "born in the wrong womb" is used in this novel to refer to a character who was not born into the main line of the family but successfully manages the household when the most powerful woman in her clan has a miscarriage. [PWR]
  - One sickly character in this novel composes a poem for some dead (*) flower petals. [PWR]
  - That woman was born into the Rongguo house, and rejected a childhood request of a Buddhist monk to save her from a tragic fate.
  - The protagonist of this novel pursues Lin Daiyu but ultimately marries his cousin Xue Baochai, and also was born with a piece of jade in his mouth.
  - For 10 points, name this Chinese novel about the Jia family by Cao Xueqin. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng; or Shitou ji]
  - A brilliant character in this novel named Cassia dies when she drinks the poison she prepared for her husband's maid. [PWR]
  - This novel opens with the couplet: "Truth becomes fiction when the fiction's true / real becomes not-real when the unreal's real." The protagonist of this novel becomes lethargic soon after a begonia tree inauspiciously blooms out of season.
  - After a purse is found with an indecent picture, all of the maids in this novel come under suspicion of having an illicit affair. [PWR]
  - When the protagonist's sister First Spring gets promoted to (*) imperial consort of the second degree, the Rongguo and Ningguo branches of their family transform their adjacent compounds into one gigantic pleasure grounds.
  - In this novel, the goddess Nuwa rejects a stone that eventually finds its way into the mouth of the protagonist Jia Baoyu.
  - For 10 points, name this 18th century Chinese novel by Cao Xueqin. [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: The Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng]
  - A loutish character in this novel kills a waiter for bringing his wine too slowly, and also kills a man over a slave girl named Lotus.
  - Several characters in this novel are given Latinate names like Sapientia and Adamantina in David Hawkes' translation.
  - In a popular scene from this novel, one character buries some flower petals and then writes an elegiac poem in their honor.
  - Many scenes in this novel take place in the fictional Prospect Garden.
  - There is some controversy over whether the last 40 chapters of the so-called Cheng-Gao version of this novel are later additions.
  - The contrasting characters Xue Baochai and Lin Daiyu are rivals for the romantic interest of this novel's protagonist, who is born with a piece of jade in his mouth.
  - For 10 points, name this novel about Jia Baoyu, written by Cao Xueqin. [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng]
  - One character in this novel buries flowers twice, and the second time she ponders, "One may think I am crazy burying flowers" and wonders who will be her caretaker when she is deceased.
  - When this novel's protagonist was one year old, he was given an array of objects symbolizing possible career paths, and chose women's cosmetics.
  - This novel's protagonist enters the World of Illusion and has his first sexual experience after having an erotic dream while resting in his relative Qin Keqing's room, and he has a sister who is the Emperor's favorite concubine for a time.
  - The father of this novel's protagonist wants him to study Confucian classics, but he reads erotica instead.
  - This novel's protagonist, who was born with a piece of jade in his mouth, is tricked into marrying Xue Baochai while thinking that he was marrying Lin Daiyu.
  - For 10 points, name this novel about Jia Baoyu by Cao Xueqin, one of China's four great classical novels. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A 9th-century literary work in this form partly titled for Morsels from Youyang includes short anecdotes and tales by Duan Chengshi about tattoos and traditional medicine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: miscellany [or miscellaneous]):
    Name this form that titles a collection by Richard Tottel that includes "Songes and Sonettes." This type of collection, often including different authors, differs from anthologies in that they are not canonical.
  Part 2 (ans: fairy tales [or folk tales; prompt on tales or fables]):
    Duan's Miscellaneous Morsels from Youyang first published the text "Ye Xian" ("yeh she-AHN") in this genre, which closely resembles Cinderella. These texts were collected by the Brothers Grimm.
  Part 3 (ans: dreams [or Dream of the Red Chamber; or "Yellow Millet Dream"; or meng]):
    Chinese miscellanies often collected "yellow millet" tales, including one by Lu Dongbin titled for one of these events. The Twelve Beauties of Jinling appear in a novel most commonly titled for these events partially about Lin Daiyu.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet in this language bucked social norms with irreverent poems such as one likening her to a jackfruit that tells men, "if you want me, pierce me upon your stick." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vietnamese [or tieng Viet] (The rhyme scheme is known as Luc bat.)):
    Name this language. Rhyme is interwoven in couplets of six- and eight-syllable lines in an epic in this language about a woman forced into prostitution to save her family, the Tale of Kieu("kew").
  Part 2 (ans: Confucianism [or Rujiao or Ruism; accept Nho giao] (Jia Baoyu appears in The Dream of the Red Chamber.)):
    The poet Ho Xuan Huong ("hoh swun hwung") and Nguyen Du's character Kieu undermined this patriarchal system of thought in Vietnam. Jia Baoyu ("jʼYAH bao-YEW") scorns this system by not reading its Four Books, like the Analects.
  Part 3 (ans: pansori (Those works are The Tale of Chunhyang and The Story of Sim Cheong.)):
    The heroine of a romance in this genre subverts Confucianism by resisting a corrupt magistrate. In one of five surviving tales in this genre, a filial daughter drowns herself to restore her father's eyesight.

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Note to players: Description acceptable. The line "When you realize the difference between the container and the content, you will have knowledge" inspires attempts to decipher a book with this property in Idries Shah's The Book of the Book. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blank pages [accept descriptions of containing no text or being empty; accept mostly blank]):
    Name or describe this property of a section preceded by "The Wizard" in an Edward Seidensticker translation of one novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Genji Hikaru [or Genji Hikaru or Hikaru Genji; accept The Tale of Genji; accept Genji Monogatari]):
    The blank chapter "Vanished into the Clouds" implies the death of this title prince of an 11th century "Tale" by Lady Murasaki.
  Part 3 (ans: dreams [accept "The Floating Bridge of Dreams" or Dream of the Red Chamber]):
    Despite Genji's death, the novel does not end until a chapter titled for a "Floating Bridge of [these events]." One of these events in another novel involving the 12 Beauties of Jinling is sometimes studied in Redology.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: David Hawkes produced a translation of this novel that rendered the names of household servants in English and members of religious orders in Latin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or The Story of a Stone; or Dream of Red Mansions; or Hongloumeng; or Shitou ji]):
    Scholars of the namesake "studies" of what novel debate the authenticity of its final 40 chapters, which were published three decades after its first 80?
  Part 2 (ans: Water Margin [or Outlaws of the Marsh; or The Marshes of Mount Liang; or Shuihu Zhuan]):
    Drawing on a Confucius quote, Pearl Buck titled her translation of the 70-chapter version of this novel All Men are Brothers. The 100- and 120-chapter versions of this novel detail the later lives of 108 outlaws under Song Jiang.
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur David Waley [accept Arthur David Schloss]):
    This English sinologist, also known for his translation of The Tale of Genji, published an abridged version of Journey to the West under the title Monkey.

[B5] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An ongoing debate discusses the authenticity of this novel's last forty chapters, which are not found in manuscripts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or Honglou Meng or The Story of the Stone or Shitou Ji]):
    Name this novel, whose manuscripts contain commentary by Zhiyanzhai and Elderly Maimed Tablet. This novel depicts two adjacent families in the Rongguo and Ningguo Houses.
  Part 2 (ans: jade [or yu]):
    Early drafts of Dream of the Red Chamber were circulated as The Story of the Stone, referencing this precious material. The protagonist is born with this precious stone in his mouth.
  Part 3 (ans: Cheng Weiyuan OR Gao E [or Cheng-Gao versions or Cheng-Gao versions]):
    These two editors published the earliest printed editions of Dream of the Red Chamber, including changes not authorized by the author. Their editions are often referred to as the "versions" of these two editors. Name either one.

[B6] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The Two Fair Cousins exemplifies a Qing-era genre named for the romance between an attractive person with this occupation and an often crossdressing "beauty." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: scholars [or academics; or students; or equivalents; or  shi; accept caizi-jiaren or scholar-and-beauty fiction; prompt on intellectuals]):
    Name this occupation that provides an alternate title for The Carnal Prayer Mat. This profession titles a satirical Wu Jingzi novel about Du Shaoqing.
  Part 2 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Red Chamber Dream; or A Dream of Red Mansions; or Hong lou meng; or Shitou ji]):
    Despite its critiques of the genre of "scholar-beauty" novels, this novel by Cao Xueqin adopts several of its tropes. Jia Baoyu romances his cousin Lin Daiyu in this novel titled for a room.
  Part 3 (ans: stone [or rock; or jade; or yu; or shi]):
    In the first chapter of Dream of the Red Chamber, words written on this material describes how truth becomes beauty, punning on the family names Jia and Zhen. In the novel, Xue Baochai's locket has an inscription that matches words written on this material.

[B7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the protagonist ruminates on a sketch of two people flying kites in the "Principal Record of the Twelve Girls of Chin Ling." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cao Xueqin ("tsao shway-cheen") [or Cao Zhan; accept Mengruan; accept Cao kites] (The novel is The Dream of the Red Chamber.)):
    Name this author who made namesake kites and wrote a guidebook on the manufacture of kites. A novel by this author begins with the couplet "Truth becomes fiction when the fiction's true; Real becomes not-real where the unreal's real."
  Part 2 (ans: Master Harold [or Hally; accept "Master Harold" ...and the Boys] (by Athol Fugard)):
    Sam and Willie are told that "you can't fly kites on rainy days" by this title character of a 1982 play. After he is told to imagine a "world without collisions," this character remarks that the United Nations is "a dancing school for politicians."
  Part 3 (ans: Afghanistan):
    Hassan replies, "For you, a thousand times over" after Amir asks him to run a kite in Khaled Hosseini's The Kite Runner, which is set in this Asian country.

[B8] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of this author's stories, Wong Jiazhi (j'yah-JURR) poses as a married woman in order to seduce the collaborator Mr. Yee, whom she plans to assassinate. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eileen Chang [or Zhang Ailing]):
    Name this Chinese author of Lust, Caution and Love in a Fallen City.
  Part 2 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng]):
    Chang wrote a study of this Classical Chinese novel by Cao Xueqin (TSAO shway-CHEEN) that centers on a boy who is born with a stone in his mouth.
  Part 3 (ans: Zhuangzi (jwong-tzuh)):
    Jia Baoyu (j'yah bao-YEW), the protagonist of Dream of the Red Chamber, shows his idleness by reading this philosophical text, named for its Daoist author who sits dreaming of a butterfly.

[B9] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The illustrated Cheng-Gao editions of this novel added an additional 40 chapters with dubious authorial provenance which are not found in the earlier Rouge editions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong lou meng; accept Red Chamber Dream or A Dream of Red Mansions]):
    Name this Qing dynasty-era novel by Cao Xueqin (tsao shway-cheen), in which Jia Baoyu is born with a piece of jade in his mouth.
  Part 2 (ans: confession [the latter is De Quincey's Confessions of an English Opium Eater]):
    The influential survey A Brief History of Chinese Fiction attributes Dream of the Red Chamber's success to it being both an autobiography and an example of this genre. An English work titled for this genre pioneered "impassioned prose" and begins "I here present you, courteous reader, with the record of a remarkable period in my life."
  Part 3 (ans: Lu Xun (shun) [accept Zhou Shuren]):
    A Brief History of Chinese Fiction was written by this 20th century author, who compared Chinese society to "an iron house without windows" in the preface to his collection Call to Arms.

[B10] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these novels about dysfunctional families:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna Karenina):
    This classic novel notes that "Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." Its title character commits suicide by throwing herself in front of a train.
  Part 2 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone, orHong Lou Meng]):
    This novel centers around a wealthy family which declines to the point where its mansion is ransacked by the imperial troops, mainly because of its inability to produce competent sons. In this novel, the tears of the reincarnated Crimson Pearl Fairy for her lover are said to be shed "during the whole of a mortal lifetime."
  Part 3 (ans: The Lowland (by Jhumpa Lahiri)):
    This 2013 novel chronicles how the brothers Subhash and Udayan are torn apart by love for the woman Gauri, who abandons her child Bela in order to move to California and write a dissertation on the Naxalites.

[B11] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A central household in this novel is managed by a woman whose name means Splendid Phoenix. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng]):
    Name this novel in which the protagonist, born with a piece of jade in his mouth, is forced by his family into an arranged marriage, causing his cousin to waste away and die of grief.
  Part 2 (ans: Chinese [or Classical Chinese; or Literary Chinese; or vernacular Chinese; do not accept "Mandarin"]):
    Dream of the Red Chamber is one of the Four Great Classical Novels of this language. It was used to write Romance of the Three Kingdoms.
  Part 3 (ans: a Buddhist monk):
    Near the end of the novel, Baoyu is guided through a dream by this type of person, whom Baoyu is destined to accompany. Earlier, this type of person had given a prized golden locket to Baochai.

[B12] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this surname wrote the novel Bizarre Happenings Eyewitnessed over Two Decades. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wu [accept Wu Jianren or Wu Wo-yao or Wu Jingzi]):
    Identify this surname also shared by the author of the Qing (ching) dynasty novel The Scholars, which satirizes the Chinese civil service examination system.
  Part 2 (ans: red [or hong; accept The Dream of the Red Chamber or Hong lou meng or redology]):
    Another Qing dynasty novel, by Cao Xueqin (TSOW shway-CHEEN), is named after the "dream" of a "chamber" of this color. The scholarly study of that novel is named after this color plus the suffix "-ology."
  Part 3 (ans: Monkey: A Folk-Tale of China):
    Another Wu, Wu Cheng'en (chung-UN), is generally thought to be the author of Journey to the West, a novel translated by Arthur Waley in an abridged version with this title.

[B13] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Along with Spring and Autumn, this novel makes up the Torrents Trilogy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Family [or:Jia]):
    Name this novel by Ba Jin about the three Gao brothers.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dream of the Red Chamber [or:The Story of the Stone, Hong lou meng, Shitou ji, Red Chamber Dream, A Dream of Red Mansions]):
    The Family is also compared to this classic novel by Cao Xueqin. Coincidentally, the Chinese title of The Family, Jia, is spelled the same in English as the family name of Jia Baoyu, this novel's main character.
  Part 3 (ans: Lin Daiyu [accept either name; or Lin Tai-Yu]):
    Though Jia Baoyu marries his cousin Xue Baochai, his true love is this sickly cousin of his.

[B14] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The main character of this novel is born with a heavenly piece of jade in his mouth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or Story of the Stone; or Hung Luo Meng]):
    Name this Qing dynasty novel by Cao Xuequin. It centers on Bao-yu, the adolescent heir of the declining Jia family, and is the most recent of the Four Great Classical Chinese Novels.
  Part 2 (ans: Lin Daiyu [or Lin Daiyu]):
    Bao-yu is in love with this woman, his first cousin, and believes he's marrying her at his wedding, until he learns that his family tricked him into marrying the more worldly Xue Baochai. She dies of grief after discovering the deception.
  Part 3 (ans: Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio [or Strange Stories from a Liaozai Studio; or Strange Tales from a Chinese Studio; or Strange Tales from a Lonely Studio; or Strange Tales from Liaozai; or Liaozai zhiyi]):
    This other prose work from the Qing Dynasty was written by Pu Songling. It consists of 431 supernatural stories, including many about seductive fox spirits, and one about a man who buys penis enlargement pills from a monk and then becomes crippled by his astonishingly massive erection.

[B15] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Jia Yunchuan serves as a consort to a person with this office in one work and another person with this office pardons Song Jiang's bandits in Water Margin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Emperor of China [or Chinese Emperor or Huangdi; prompt on anything mentioning Chinese rulers]):
    Name this position held by the person who sent Tang Seng on the title venture in Journey to the West, Taizong, and by a family that lost power at the beginning of Romance of the Three Kingdoms, the Han.
  Part 2 (ans: Jia Baoyu [prompt on Jia]):
    Jia Yunchuan is the cousin to this boy who is tricked to believe that he his marrying his true love Lin Daiyu but instead marries Xue Baochai. This protagonist's name is a play on words for "Fake Precious Jade."
  Part 3 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or Hong Lou Meng, Hung Lou Meng, Story of the Stone, Shi Tou Ji, Red Chamber Dream, A Dream of Red Mansions; accept anything that mentions Dream of a red building or room of some sort]):
    Jia Baoyu is the protagonist of this work about a noble household during the Qing dynasty of which only the 80 chapters were finished by its original author, Cao Xueqing. It is the last of the Four Great Classical Novels.

[B16] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is born with a piece of jade in his mouth, and he disappears after passing the imperial exams. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jia Baoyu [accept either]):
    Name this character who falls in love with his cousin Lin Daiyu but ends up marrying his other cousin Xue Baochai.
  Part 2 (ans: Dream of the Red Chamber [or The Story of the Stone; or Hong Lou Meng]):
    Jia Baoyu is the protagonist of this eighteenth-century novel by Cao Xueqin. One of its alternate titles comes from an object rejected by Nuwa in this novel's otherworldly frame story.
  Part 3 (ans: New Youth or La Jeunesse or Xin Qingnian):
    The leading "Reddologist" in Chinese literary historicaly is probably Hu Shih, who like pretty much every other literary scholar of the era spent time writing for this magazine found by Chen Duxiu, which drove China's May Fourth Movement.
