=== STOCK CLUES: Purcell ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 39 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henry Purcell
  - The third movement of one piece by this composer features a countertenor duet while the rest of the choir imitates trumpet sounds in ostinato. [PWR]
  - William Croft used this man's setting of "Thou Knowest Lord" for one of his Funeral Sentences as an homage to him.
  - This man's popular Ode to St.
  - Cecilia features a movement titled Wondrous Machine! in praise of the organ. [PWR]
  - This man is commonly attributed as the author of the (*) Irish march Lilliburlero. [PWR]
  - Cupid sings the aria "What Power art thou" in the "Frost Scene" of this man's opera King Arthur.
  - This frequent collaborator of Nahum Tate composed the incidental music to Abdelazer, which was used as the basis for Benjamin Britten's Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
  - For 10 points, name this baroque composer of Dido and Aeneas. [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henry Purcell
  - This composer never finished a work set in Mexico, his dramatic opera called The Indian Queen. [PWR]
  - This composer succeeded his mentor as principal organist at the Westminster Abbey, and modeled one opera's final chorus, With drooping wings, on the final chorus of Venus and Adonis by that mentor, (*) John Blow. [PWR]
  - This composer set incidental music to a play by Aphra Behn, Abdelazer, and Benjamin Britten used themes for that work for his work subtitled Variations and Fugue on a Theme of this composer.
  - In one opera by this composer, one of the title characters sings a dying aria set over a ground bass that frequently uses half-step intervals in When I am laid in earth.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of the opera Dido and Aeneas. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henry Purcell
  - Alfred Deller is best-known for reviving dramatic works and songs by this composer. [PWR]
  - He used a three-bar ground bass in C minor for an aria often sung by a countertenor, whose lyrics describe snakes dropping from the head of the Fury Alecto. [PWR]
  - Originally written for a performance of Oedipus, that song was later published in this composer's posthumous collection Orpheus Britannicus. [PWR]
  - Musicologist Franklin Zimmerman primarily studies this composer's music, and compiled the Z numbers used to catalogue his works. [PWR]
  - He wrote an opera whose final aria is based on a chromatically descending (*) ground bass in G minor and 3/2 time. [PWR]
  - Today, countertenors often perform this composer's Music for a While.
  - A chorus of witches and a chorus of sailors are characters in an opera by this composer in which the handmaid Belinda witnesses the aria "When I am laid in Earth" sung by her sister, the title queen of Carthage.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Dido and Aeneas. [GIVE]

[T4] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra: Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Purcell [or A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra: Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Purcell]
  - In one section of this piece, the basses speed up and play progressively higher before string tremolos and a gong hit signal a transition to a harp solo.
  - In the penultimate portion of this composition, strings playing ascending chromatic lines are interrupted three times by whip cracks.
  - The piccolo begins the fugue that ends this piece, in which woodwinds and strings play the fugue theme while the brass once again plays the tune, beginning with an ascending D minor arpeggio, from the incidental music to Abdelazar.
  - This piece, commissioned for a documentary film, consists of a set of variations on a tune by Purcell.
  - For 10 points, name this Benjamin Britten composition intended to demonstrate musical instruments to children. [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henry Purcell
  - This composer wrote the musical ode "Come ye Sons of Art" for the birthday of a monarch and set text by Nicholas Brady to music in his Ode to St.
  - Cecilia. [PWR]
  - This composer utilized a quartet of Flatt trumpets for a march in another work. [PWR]
  - In addition to composing music for the funeral of Mary II, this student of (*) John Blow collaborated with Nahum Tate on an opera with an aria addressed to Belinda. [PWR]
  - This composer's Abdelazar was quoted by Benjamin Britten in The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
  - He wrote an opera containing the aria "When I am laid in earth," which is also called the "lament" of the title Queen of Carthage.
  - For 10 points, name this English Baroque composer of Dido and Aeneas. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Henry Purcell
  - Michael Nyman quoted this composer in his works Chasing Sheep is Best Left to Shepherds and Memorial. [PWR]
  - This composer used four flatt trumpets, a type of slide trumpet, in a march and canzona that he wrote for a royal funeral. [PWR]
  - He included the ground-bass song "Music for a while" in his incidental music for a play on the Oedipus story, and he included the countertenor duet "Sound the trumpet" in his birthday ode "Come, Ye Sons of Art." This composer also wrote the "Monkey's Dance," which is followed by the Chinese Woman's aria "Hark!
  - Now the Echoing Air," in a work in which Juno sings (*) "Thrice Happy Lovers" and "The Plaint," and the character of The Drunken Poet is added to an adaptation of A Midsummer Night's Dream.
  - Dioclesian, King Arthur, and The Fairy-Queen are among this composer's semi-operas.
  - For 10 points, name this English composer who included the lament "When I am laid in earth" in his opera Dido and Aeneas. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The secco recitative "Thy hand, Belinda" introduces this aria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "When I am laid in earth" [or "Dido's Lament"]):
    Name this aria, which opens with a chromatic descending bass pattern from G down to D. This aria features a unique instance of a ground bass since each repetition has a length of 5 bars.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell ("PURR-sell")):
    "When I am laid in earth" is the final aria of Dido and Aeneas, an opera by this English Baroque composer of the Fairy Queen.
  Part 3 (ans: Abdelazer):
    Purcell composed the incidental music for this Aphra Behn play, the second movement of which was used by Benjamin Britten for the theme of his The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.

[B2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer included the countertenor duet Sound the Trumpet as part of an ode whose opening sinfonia was reused in his unfinished opera The Indian Queen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    Name this composer of the ode Come, Ye Sons of Art. A descending chromatic fourth in the ground bass opens a "lament" by this composer in which the singer pleads "Remember me, but ah! Forget my fate."
  Part 2 (ans: Queen Mary II [accept Ode for the Queen Mary's Birthday; accept Music for the Funeral of Queen Mary]):
    Purcell's Come, Ye Sons of Art was written to honor the birthday of this ruler. Purcell set the hymn "Thou knowest, Lord" in a set of Funeral Sentences for this ruler's death that includes a C minor March and Canzona.
  Part 3 (ans: slide):
    The March from Music for the Funeral of Queen Mary is scored for four trumpets outfitted with one of these devices, allowing them to play in a minor key. This device allows trombones to play perfect glissandi.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Some musicologists have hypothesized that a piece in this genre in G minor is a musical hoax actually composed over a century later by Ferdinand David. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: chaconne):
    Name this genre of a piece for violin and continuo by Baroque composer Tomaso Antonio Vitali. The Second Book of Toccatas contains the first pieces in this syncopated genre, which is closely related to the passacaglia.
  Part 2 (ans: Girolamo Frescobaldi [Girolamo Alessandro Frescobaldi]):
    The Second Book of Toccatas was written by this early Baroque organist at St. Peter's, who composed the liturgical organ collection Fiori musicali. This Ferrarese composer also wrote Il Primo Libro delle Canzoni.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This composer also wrote a chaconne in G minor that was arranged by Benjamin Britten. This English composer included the lament "When I am laid in earth" in his opera Dido and Aeneas.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Gavin Bryars' 2013 viol consort In Nomine is subtitled "For" this Baroque composer, whose brother Michael and son Edward were also composers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    Name this English composer drawn from in Michael Nyman's "Chasing Sheep is Best Left to Shepherds" and Britten's Young Person's Guide. His operas include King Arthur and Dido and Aeneas.
  Part 2 (ans: John Taverner OR the later John Kenneth Tavener (allegedly, distant relatives)):
    The In Nomine genre developed from the Benedictus of a mass by a composer who essentially shares his name with the "holy minimalist" Orthodox composer of Song for Athene and The Protecting Veil. Name either.
  Part 3 (ans: fantasia [or fantasy] [the latter is the Tallis Fantasia by Ralph ("rafe") Vaughan Williams]):
    Max Davies used Taverner's In Nomine theme in an opera and two pieces of this type named for him. Another piece of this type for double string orchestra and string quartet was premiered at the 1910 Three Choirs Festival.

[B5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An Olga Neuwirth song cycle composed in homage to this performer includes versions of Lesley Gore's "You Don't Own Me" and "Ding-Dong! The Witch Is Dead" from The Wizard of Oz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Klaus Nomi [or Klaus Sperber]):
    Name this German countertenor known for his wildly theatrical live shows. He died of complications from AIDS in 1983.
  Part 2 (ans: Samson and Delilah [or Samson et Dalila]):
    In a smoke-bomb-filled performance, Nomi donned a spacesuit and performed the aria "Mon cœur s'ouvre a ta voix" from this 1877 grand opera, in which priests dance a famous "Bacchanale."
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    Neuwirth's song cycle includes a version of "The Cold Song" from this composer's opera King Arthur, as well as a version of his aria "Dido's Lament."

[B6] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character asks "Thy hand, Belinda" in a recitative ("reh-sit-uh-TEEV") before her most famous aria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dido):
    Name this operatic character who sings a dotted rhythm on three repetitions of the phrase "Remember me!" before singing a descending melody on "but ah! forget my fate."
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell ("PUR-sull")):
    This English Baroque composer of Ode to St. Cecilia included "Dido's Lament" as the final aria in his opera Dido and Aeneas.
  Part 3 (ans: Roman emperor [or emperor of Rome or equivalents; accept Dioclesian or Diocletian or Nero] (The second opera is The Coronation of Poppea.)):
    Among Purcell's semi-operas is one named for a holder of this position and subtitled "The Prophetess." The duet "Pur ti miro" is included in a Monteverdi opera centering on the romantic liaison between a holder of this position and his mistress.

[B7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The recitativo secco that precedes this aria opens with the lines "Thy hand, Belinda, darkness shades me / On thy bosom let me rest." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dido's Lament"):
    Name this aria that opens with the line "When I am laid in earth." At this aria's conclusion, the character singing it implores, "Remember me, but ah! Forget my fate."
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell ("PUR-sull")):
    "Dido's Lament" is from Dido and Aeneas, an opera by this English Baroque composer. He adapted William Shakespeare's play A Midsummer Night's Dream into his opera The Fairy-Queen.
  Part 3 (ans: chromatic fourth [accept passus duriusculus; prompt on chromatic line; prompt on perfect fourth]):
    The opening measures of Dido's Lament are widely studied because it uses this melodic figure in the ground bass, also called a "lament bass." This melodic figure, which is related to the pianto, uses semitones to descend across a specific interval.

[B8] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The final aria of this opera, which begins "Mourn for thy servant, mighty God of Love," is sung by a chorus following the death of one of the title characters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Venus and Adonis):
    Name this opera, often considered the earliest surviving English opera, composed by John Blow.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell ("PUR-sull")):
    John Blow taught this English composer whose opera Dido and Aeneas contains the aria "When I am laid in earth."
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Cecilia [accept Ode to St. Cecilia or Ode for St. Cecilia's Day]):
    Both Purcell and Blow composed odes to this patron saint of Music. Purcell's Te Deum, which was composed for this saint's feast day, was the first English-language Te Deum with orchestral accompaniment.

[B9] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a work named for this figure, the organ is compared with, and declared superior to, the lute, the violin, the flute, and the drum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: St Cecilia):
    Name this saint, a subject of pieces especially by composers working in England. Handel set text by John Dryden in a cantata for this saint's day, while Herbert Howells set a poem by Ursula Vaughan Williams as a hymn for this saint.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This composer's Hail! Bright Cecilia was one of a series of works which they wrote honouring St Cecilia. This composer of Dido and Aeneas also wrote the Funeral Sentences for Mary II.
  Part 3 (ans: Gerald Finzi):
    'Changed is the Age' is one movement of this composer's For St Cecilia. This composer also set poems by Thomas Hardy in Earth and Air and Rain, while their C-minor Clarinet Concerto ends its first movement with triple-forte trills on alternating octave Ds.

[B10] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some question about pieces of music inspired by classical mythology, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This English composer drew on the beginning of The Aeneid for his opera Dido and Aeneas. He drew on his own country's myths for his other operas King Arthur and The Faerie Queene.
  Part 2 (ans: Cesar Franck):
    This Belgian composer used a myth from The Golden Ass for his symphonic poem Psyche and Eros. He also used themes of Catholic mysticism in his Symphony in D Minor.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludwig van Beethoven):
    This composer drew on the Prometheus myth for his ballet Creatures of Prometheus, though he is much better known for his nine symphonies, the fifth of which contains a "fate knocking at the door" motif.

[B11] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A fanfare based on 'Fairest Isle' from this opera was used as a theme for BBC Radio 3's 1995 celebration of British music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: King Arthur, or The British Worthy [accept either underlined part]):
    Identify this 17th century semi-opera in which the title character rescues the blind princess Emmeline from the Saxon King Oswald.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    With a libretto by John Dryden, King Arthur's music was written by this composer. The 1995 theme was a celebration of his career and enduring influence, including his other opera, Dido and Aeneas.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Harrison Birtwistle):
    The year concluded with the premiere of this composer's saxophone concertante work, Panic. It was performed in the second half of the Last Night of the Proms to an estimated television audience of 100 million.

[B12] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some composers who were also organist of Westminster Abbey during the 17th century. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orlando Gibbons):
    This composer is known for religious works such as the verse anthem This is the Record of John and secular works such as the madrigal The Silver Swan.
  Part 2 (ans: John Blow):
    This later organist at the Abbey wrote the anthem Lord Thou hast been our refuge and the masque Venus and Adonis which Grove's considers to be the first English opera.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This composer succeeded Blow as organist. He composed the anthem Thou knowest, Lord as well as the semi-opera King Arthur.

[B13] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The main theme of this piece is adapted from a rondeau found in Henry Purcell's incidental music to the play Abdelazer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra [or The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra: Variations and Fugue on a Theme of Purcell]):
    Name this Benjamin Britten piece featuring a set of variations for each group of instruments in the title ensemble. It was originally written for an educational film targeted at children.
  Part 2 (ans: piccolo):
    The finale of The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra begins with a fugue introduced by this instrument. It plays a solo in the middle section of John Philip Sousa's The Stars and Stripes Forever.
  Part 3 (ans: Lieutenant Kije [or Poruchik Kizhe]):
    A solo piccolo plays the theme of the first movement of this suite initially written to accompany a 1934 film. A double bass introduces the theme of its second movement, a brooding Romance.

[B14] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One title character in this opera sings "When I am laid in Earth" while dying. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dido and Aeneas):
    Name this English opera about a Trojan hero and queen of Carthage.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This English composer of Dido and Aeneas also wrote the odes "Hail! Bright Cecilia" and "Come, Ye Sons of Art" as well as the semi-operas The Fairy Queen and The Indian Queen.
  Part 3 (ans: John Blow):
    Besides its basis in Virgil's Aeneid and influence from Cavalli's Didone, Dido and Aeneas was heavily influenced by this Baroque composer's Venus and Adonis. He also composed the song collection Amphion Anglicus.

[B15] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composition is far better known than the composer's three other forays into the genre, Let Thy Hand Be Strengthened, The King Shall Rejoice, and My Heart is Inditing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zadok the Priest [or HWV 258]):
    Name this piece that takes its text from the Biblical account of the anointing of Solomon.
  Part 2 (ans: George Frideric Handel [or Georg Friedrich Haendel]):
    This composer wrote both Zadok the Priest and Music for the Royal Fireworks for George II, and he composed Water Music for the monarch's father George I.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    The text for My Heart is Inditing was written by this earlier composer for the coronation of James II. This student of John Blow is better known for composing the aria "When I am laid in earth."

[B16] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The basso ostinato for this aria consists of a chromatic stepwise descent over the interval of a fourth and a two-measure cadence returning to the tonic G. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dido's Lament" [or "When I am laid in earth"]):
    Identify this aria in which the singer pleads with her handmaiden to remember her, but forget her fate.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    "Dido's Lament" is the climax of Dido and Aeneas, an opera by this composer.
  Part 3 (ans: Belinda):
    This character, Dido's sister, and Second Woman are handmaidens of Dido. She is the one beseeched in "Dido's Lament".

[B17] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Not all famous Baroque composers were from Germany or France. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This composer from Italy notably taught violin at an orphanage in Venice. Compositionally, he may be best known for his The Contest between Harmony and Invention, which contains "The Four Seasons."
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This composer is probably best known for an opera whose best aria repeats the line "Remember me, but ah, forget my fate."
  Part 3 (ans: Dieterich Buxtehude):
    This Danish composer wrote the cantata cycle The Limbs of Our Jesus in which each cantata is addressed to a different part of Jesus's body. This composer may be better known for his organ works such as Passacaglia in D minor.

[B18] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Nahum Tate wrote the libretto for this opera in which an evil sorceress tricks one of the title lovers into abandoning the other. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dido and Aeneas):
    Name this opera in which the first title character dies of grief after singing "When I Am Laid in Earth," also known as her namesake lament.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This British composer wrote Dido and Aeneas. Benjamin Britten uses a theme from this composer's Adbelazar in his Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: John Blow):
    Purcell was a student of this Westminster Abbey organist. His early opera Venus and Adonis influenced Dido and Aeneas.

[B19] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the opera Dido and Aeneas, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    The opera was created by this British composer who also wrote an opera about King Arthur and some incidental music to Aphra Behn's Abdelazar.
  Part 2 (ans: "When I am Laid in Earth"):
    This aria, in G minor, is the best known piece of Dido and Aeneas. Sometimes known as Dido's Lament, it sees Dido state "May my wrongs create / No trouble in thy breast."
  Part 3 (ans: Nahum Tate):
    This author, who collaborated with Nicholas Brady on a New Version of the Psalms of David, wrote the libretto for Dido and Aeneas.
