=== STOCK CLUES: Sousa ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 62 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 22 found, 66 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - In a novel by this author, a character who signs her name with a lowercase "d" declares a "unilateral truce" on New Year's Eve. [PWR]
  - That character, who sends violet-colored letters to people one week before they die, falls in love with a cellist who keeps returning her letters. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, a mattress fire incinerates a group of hoodlums whose leader was killed by a woman whose face was licked by the (*) "dog of tears." A car thief created by this author develops a leg infection after being wounded by the stiletto of the girl with dark glasses. [PWR]
  - This author of Death With Interruptions created a city that is quarantined after an epidemic of "white sickness," which does not affect the doctor's wife.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago] (The sequel to Blindness is Seeing.)
  - This author's first novel, which follows a widow who engages in an affair with her brother-in-law, was retitled Land of Sin.
  - A character created by this author works at the "Central Registry of Births, Marriages and Deaths." In a novel by this author, whose sequel was translated by this author's widow Pilar del Rio, a character uses a stiletto heel to kick a car thief who is shot after developing an infection.
  - In the sequel to a novel by this author of All the Names, a "dog of tears" reappears as the only named character and an election occurs in which the majority of ballots are blank.
  - In a novel by this author, characters like the girl with the dark glasses are quarantined in a ward and the doctor's wife is the only one not affected by the title "white sickness." For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose de Sousa Saramago
  - In a novel by this author, a priest tells a philosopher that 'religion is an earthly matter and has nothing to do with heaven' during a meeting. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author claims his father's sandals after he is executed after trying to help Ananias. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, funeral directors are offered protection from "eternal life activists" by the "maphia". [PWR]
  - The title character meets with an old man and a shepherd in the middle of a lake before finding out they are (*) God and Satan in a novel by this author.
  - In a novel by this author, death falls in love with a cellist while trying to give him a violet letter warning of his demise.
  - This author wrote a novel where the Doctor's Wife is the only one immune to the "white sickness" that inflicts the title condition.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Death at Intervals, The Gospel According to Jesus Christ and Blindness. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - In a novel by this author, a woman explains the meaning of the word "diarrhea," while enticing an orchard's guardian to give her fruit. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of that novel by this author travels through time to see the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and other instances of God's cruelty. [PWR]
  - In another novel by this author, a character has a recurring nightmare in which he is a Roman soldier who kills his own son. [PWR]
  - (*) Cain was the final novel of this author, who wrote a novel in which Jesus is employed by the Devil as a shepherd and a novel in which "the old man with the black eye patch" and "the boy with the squint" are among those afflicted by a "white sickness" that spares the Doctor's Wife.
  - For 10 points, The Gospel According to Jesus Christ and Blindness are by what Portuguese author? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago] (The first novel is Cain.)
  - The protagonist of a novel by this author is a time traveler who becomes Lilith's lover and stops Abraham from sacrificing Isaac. [PWR]
  - After fainting in a crowded church, the protagonist of a novel by this author realizes that all of the people depicted in the church's artworks have had their eyes covered with paint or cloth. [PWR]
  - The title character of a novel by this author is forced to sacrifice his favorite sheep while apprenticed to a (*) shepherd, who is the Devil in disguise. [PWR]
  - This author created a woman who stabs the leader of a group of thugs in the throat with scissors while living in a hospital ward with the girl with dark glasses.
  - A novel by this author begins with a city falling victim to the "white sickness," to which only the doctor's wife is immune.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - One of this author's characters is nicknamed "fifty-eight seconds" for his love of Chopin's  Butterfly etude.
  - A novel by this author describes blood mixing with milk after soldiers shoot internees escaping from a mental hospital.
  - In a novel by this author, an unnamed country is ravaged by a non-Italian "maphia" that smuggles people across the border so they can die.
  - This author wrote a novel in which a character's leg gets infected after a girl with dark glasses kicks him with stilettos.
  - That novel by this author opens with a man failing to drive at a green stoplight.
  - In a novel by this author of Death with Interruptions, a highly infectious "white sickness" affects everyone except the doctor's wife.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of the novel Blindness. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - A novel by this author follows a bachelor who impregnates the chambermaid Lydia after his offer of marriage is refused by a girl with an incurably crippled left hand.
  - In another novel by this author, a cellist evades a letter informing him of his impending death after a brief period where no one dies within the borders of his country.
  - One of this author's protagonists is a doctor who is led to his death by the ghost of a poet.
  - This author of Death with Interruptions created a thief who is wounded from being kicked with a heeled shoe by the girl with the dark glasses.
  - Those characters created by this author are quarantined with the doctor's wife, who is inexplicably immune to the "white sickness." For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis and Blindness. [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose de Sousa Saramago
  - This author wrote about H., who paints the industrialist S. and has an affair with his secretary, in Manual of Painting and Calligraphy. [PWR]
  - This man wrote about Bartholomew Lorenzo's invention of the Passarola, a flying machine that is flown by the title lovers to escape the Inquisition. [PWR]
  - In another of his works, a man steals a car from a cripple out of "generosity and altruism" and is later fatally kicked after trying to grope a girl. [PWR]
  - The "dog of tears" follows one of this author's protagonists, who is suspected of causing 83% of voters to turn in blank ballots after leading her (*) ward during an epidemic.
  - Characters of this author of Baltasar and Blimunda include the ex-prostitute with the dark glasses and the doctor's wife, who is the only character exempt from the title condition.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of Blindness. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - In a novel by this author, the unusual appearance of a hotel clerk in a romantic comedy greatly alarms the history teacher Tertuliano.
  - In another novel, this author also wrote about several religious elders who order the burial of some mysterious glowing earth.
  - Early in that novel by this author, the protagonist's father dies while attempting to save Ananias, and he sacrifices a sheep with a marked ear after being ordered to do so by God.
  - This author of The Double also wrote a novel in which the protagonist uses a pair of scissors to kill a rapist while quarantined with her doctor husband during the title pandemic.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author of The Gospel According to Jesus Christ and Blindness. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]
  - The opening chapter of a novel by this man features a conversation between representatives of the p.i.t.m., the p.o.t.r., and the p.o.t.l. [PWR]
  - One of his characters repeats a maxim ending "let us do everything in our power not to live entirely like animals". [PWR]
  - A late novel by this man gives the name "Constant" to a character that was previously known as the "dog of tears". [PWR]
  - The old man with the eyepatch and the girl with the (*) dark glasses hook up in one of his novels, while the plot of another is set into motion when 83% of the voters in an election turn in blank ballots. [PWR]
  - The scissors-stabbing of a sadistic man eventually leads to the burning of an asylum used for quarantine in this author's most famous novel, in which the doctor's wife is the only person not to suffer the title epidemic.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Seeing, a sequel to his 1995 hit Blindness. [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Jose de Sousa Saramago
  - This writer lamented the dying culinary art of eating buttered toast in a novel whose protagonist has an affair with the administrator of proofreaders Dr.
  - Maria Sara.
  - One of his characters visits a supermarket storeroom full of dead bodies and kills a man who demands that women sleep with the men of his ward in order to be fed.
  - In his sequel to that novel, the government brands as terrorists the 87% of voters who turn in blank ballots on election afternoon.
  - This author wrote about the consequences of Raimundo Silva inserting the word "not" into a medieval history manuscript in History of the Siege of Lisbon.
  - His most famous novel includes the girl with the dark glasses, who takes refuge in a disused mental hospital, and begins with an old man stopped at a traffic light, the first victim of the "white disease." For 10 points, name this author of Seeing, the sequel to his novel Blindness, a Nobel laureate from Portugal. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the final chapter of Antonio Tabucchi's ("ta-BOO-kee's")Requiem, this character claims that Botto was an aesthete and not gay while dining with the narrator. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the spirit of Fernando Antonio Nogueira de Seabra Pessoa [reject Ricardo Reis or other heteronyms of Pessoa]):
    Name this character. One novel ends with the title character taking his jacket and his copy of Herbert Quain's God of the Labyrinth and following this character to the graveyard.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose de Sousa Saramago):
    The protagonist frequently converses with the ghost of his creator Pessoa in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, a novel written by this Portuguese author of Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: JesusChrist [accept either underlined, accept The Gospel According to Jesus Christ]):
    A poem attributed to Ricardo Reis addresses this person and begins "Hate you, [this person], I do not". In a novel by Saramago that's titled for them, this person is commanded to copulate with a sheep by a shepherd who turns out to be the Devil in disguise.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The composer of a "Symphony number five and a half," Don Gillis, titled his first symphony with this adjective. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: American [accept An American Symphony or American Salute]):
    Name this adjective that names a "salute" by Morton Gould based on the popular tune "When Johnny Comes Marching Home."
  Part 2 (ans: John Philip Sousa):
    As a composer of American patriotic music, Gould was heavily influenced by this "March King," who titles a Gould album that opens with this composer's march "The Stars and Stripes Forever."
  Part 3 (ans: wind band [or military band or concert band or symphonic band or wind ensemble or wind symphony or winds]):
    Both Gould and Sousa wrote extensively for this ensemble, one of which Sousa spent decades directing. Conductors like Frederick Fennell gained fame for interpreting landmark works for this ensemble such as Lincolnshire Posy.

[B3] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this group known as the "Master" wrote the collection The Keeper of Sheep and published a "General Program" of neopaganism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms of Fernando Pessoa [accept pseudonyms of Fernando Pessoa or alter egos of Fernando Pessoa; prompt on heteronyms]):
    Name this group of writers, including the poets Alberto Caeiro ("al-BAIR-too kah-AY-roo") and Alvaro de Campos ("ALL-vah-roo dee KAM-poosh"). Bernando Soares ("ber-NAR-doo SWARSH"), a writer accorded semi-membership in this group, is the attributed author of The Book of Disquiet.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    The heteronym Ricardo Reis ("ree-CAR-doo RAYSH") is the subject of a later novel by this Portuguese author of Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: crossword puzzles [prompt on puzzles or games] (The Pessoa heteronym is "A.A. Crosse")):
    An English heteronym of Pessoa with first and middle initials "A.A." is named in reference to these constructs, one of which begins chapter 2 of Laszlo Krasznahorkai's Seiobo There Below. These constructs also inspired Milorad Pavic's ("PAH-vitch's") Landscape Painted with Tea.

[B4] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: After driving a rival out of Leiria, the title priest of a novel by this author secretly becomes the lover of Amelia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eca de Queiroz [accept either underlined portion; or Jose Maria de Eca de Queiroz; or Eca de Queiros]):
    Name this realist author of The Crime of Father Amaro who also chronicled the downfall of the title family in his novel The Maias.
  Part 2 (ans: Cousin Bazilio [or O Primo Basilio; accept Dragon's Teeth: A Novel]):
    In this Eca de Queiroz novel, the maid Juliana blackmails Luiza due to her affair with the title womanizer, who apathetically jokes about the suffering he caused to Luiza and her husband Jorge.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    Margaret Jull Costa has won awards for her translation of The Maias and for her translations of All the Names and The Elephant's Journey, two novels by this author of The Stone Raft.

[B5] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: These characters include Alexander Search, who wrote over a hundred poems imitating real-life English poets. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms [or semi-heteronyms, or heteronimos]):
    Give the general term for these characters, which include Bernardo Soares in The Book of Disquiet. These characters differ from pseudonyms in that they have an intellectual life distinct from their creator, Fernando Pessoa.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    This author depicted one of Pessoa's over seventy heteronyms in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis. This Portuguese author's other novels include Death with Interruptions and Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Alvaro de Campos):
    Another of Pessoa's heteronyms is this poet, a former mechanical engineer whose poetry is divided into one futuristic and two decadent phases. This poet depicted his desire "to feel everything in every way" in the poem "Tobacco Shop."

[B6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This woman's brother Ngola Mbani (in-GOH-luh im-BAH-nee) ordered her sterilized and her son executed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nzinga (in-ZIN-guh) of Ndongo and Matamba [or Nzinga Ana de Sousa Mbande or Nzinga Ana de Sousa Mbande] ):
    Name this 17th-century queen of Ndongo (in-DON-goh), in a territory later renamed for her brother as Angola. This queen conquered Matamba in 1633.
  Part 2 (ans: Portugal [or Portuguese Empire]):
    Nzinga clashed with this colonial power, from which Angola and Mozambique became independent in 1975.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Kongo [or Kongo dya Ntotila or Wene wa Kongo or Reino do Congo]):
    Ndongo was formally a vassal state of this long-lasting Angolan kingdom, whose similarly named king Nzinga a Nkuwu (in-ZIN-guh ah in-KOO-woo) converted to Christianity and was baptized as Joao I (ZHOO-ow the first) in 1491.

[B7] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the blind girl Gertrude regains her eyesight and falls in love with a pastor's son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Gide [or Andre Paul Guillaume Gide] (The other novel is The Immoralist.)):
    Name this author of the novel The Pastoral Symphony. In a different novel by this author, the tuberculosis-suffering protagonist watches the boy Moktir steal a pair of scissors.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    A town suddenly regains its eyesight at the end of the novel Blindness written by this Portuguese author.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo [accept Pablo Neruda] (The poem is "The Heights of Macchu Picchu.")):
    In a novel by the Spanish author Benito Perez Galdos, a boy with this first name regains his eyesight and rejects the girl Marianela. The final section of a twelve-part poem by a poet with this first name declares, "Rise up in birth with me, my brother."

[B8] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, people are transported out of an unnamed landlocked country by an organization known as the Maphia, spelled with a "P-H." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Death with Interruptions [or Death at Intervals or As Intermitencias da Morte]):
    Name this novel whose title concept is personified as a woman with an all-lowercase name. That woman in this novel terrifies people with letters in violet envelopes before she falls in love with a cellist.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    This Portuguese author of Death with Interruptions depicted "the white sickness" in the novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Ricardo Reis [or Ricardo Reis; accept The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis or O Ano da Morte de Ricardo Reis]):
    Another Saramago novel depicts the final year of this character, who dies by putting on his jacket and going to a cemetery. In that novel, this heteronym of the real-life author Fernando Pessoa outlives Pessoa himself.

[B9] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This instrument plays the countermelody to the trio sections of many of Karl King's marches. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: euphonium [prompt on baritone horn]):
    Name this low, valved brass instrument, which King played. In an orchestra, it is usually played by a musician who doubles on bass trumpet.
  Part 2 (ans: screamers [accept The Screamer]):
    Many of King's compositions are labeled with this term for particularly quick and virtuosic circus marches. A march by Fred Jewell is named for this term, which describes pieces like Henry Fillmore's Rolling Thunder and John Klohr's Billboard March.
  Part 3 (ans: John Philip Sousa):
    On Parade is a rare example of a screamer by this "March King," who typically wrote slower marches such as The Liberty Bell and The Stars and Stripes Forever.

[B10] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, people with this condition include the girl with the dark glasses and the car thief. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blindness [or word forms; or equivalents such as vision impairment; or cegueira or cego or cega; prompt on "the white sickness" or "mal-branco"]):
    Name this condition whose early victims are placed in an asylum. A woman pretends to have this condition in order to stay with her afflicted husband and later helps those victims escape.
  Part 2 (ans: the dog of tears [or Constant or Constante; or o cachorro das lagrimas; prompt on dog or cachorro]):
    In the novel Blindness, the doctor's wife starts crying while lost in the rain but is comforted by this character, who licks her face and joins her group. This character kills and eats a hen that belongs to an old woman.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    This Portuguese author used his dog Camoes ("cah-MOYSH") as an inspiration for the dog of tears in his novel Blindness.

[B11] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This queen, whose cloth hoard included Yoruba textiles, allegedly used an attendant as a human chair to assert her equality with the capitao-mor ("kah-pee-TAO-mokh") of Cape Verde. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nzinga ("n'JING-ah") [or Njinga or variants like Jinga or Ginga or Zinga or Singa; or Nzinga of Ndongo and Matamba; or Nzinga Mbande; accept Ana de Sousa Nzinga or Ana Nzinga; prompt on Ana or de Sousa]):
    Name this 17th-century queen of Ndongo and Matamba, whose brother forcibly sterilized her. This queen joined an Imbangala warriors' kilombo before she fought Kasanje ("kah-SAHN-jay") and its ally Portugal in modern Angola.
  Part 2 (ans: Luanda):
    During the "Grand Design," Nzinga allied with the Dutch in this city located on a bay famed for its nzimbu shells. Today, it is the capital of Angola.
  Part 3 (ans: Salvador [or savior; accept Sao Salvador or San Salvador; accept Salvador da Bahia or Sao Salvador da Bahia; prompt on sao or san or saint by asking "followed by what word?"] (The Dutch also captured Salvador da Bahia during the Groot Desseyn.)):
    Alvaro I ("AHL-vah-roo the first") Europeanized his capital of M'banza-Kongo by giving it this name after he ceded Luanda to Portugal. Africans created Candomble ("con-doam-BLAY") in a Brazilian city with this name in Bahia ("bah-EE-ah").

[B12] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the proto-jazz composer James Reese Europe, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: John Philip Sousa):
    Europe's New York-based Clef Club Orchestra used large ensembles akin to those used by this composer of military marches like "The Washington Post" and "The Stars and Stripes Forever."
  Part 2 (ans: Dixieland [accept the Original Dixieland Jass Band; accept traditional jazz]):
    Despite differences in instrumentation, Europe's compositions are musically similar to this small-ensemble style of early jazz. An "original" band named for this style made the earliest jazz recordings of "Livery Stable Blues" and "Tiger Rag."
  Part 3 (ans: stop-time [or stop-timing; prompt on syncopation or word forms like syncopate]):
    Europe's version of W.C. Handy's "St. Louis Blues" features strains that use this rhythmic technique, in which the accompaniment begins to play only accented downbeats every measure or every other measure, leaving only silences or soloist passages.

[B13] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After this character observes a fortress firing on several damaged warships, he repeats his saying "wise is the man who contents himself with the spectacle of the world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ricardo Reis [accept either underlined name; do not accept or prompt on "Fernando Pessoa"]):
    Name this character who arrives on the Highland Brigade after a failed rebellion in Brazil. Initially intending to practice medicine, this character meets Dr. Sampaio and his daughter Marcenda, who has a paralyzed arm.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose (de Sousa) Saramago):
    The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis was written by this Portuguese author. This author wrote about an epidemic of "white sickness" that affects everyone but the doctor's wife in his novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: The Book of Disquiet [or Livro do Desassossego]):
    Fernando Pessoa's flaneur lifestyle influenced both The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis and his other heteronym Bernardo Soares, who is credited with writing this posthumous "factless autobiography" by Pessoa.

[B14] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literary doppelgangers, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de SousaSaramago]):
    A Mesopotamia-obsessed history professor discovers his doppelganger while watching a film in this author's novel The Double. This Portuguese author also wrote the novel Blindness.
  Part 2 (ans: Ursula K. Le Guin ("luh gwin") (The novels described are A Wizard of Earthsea and The Left Hand of Darkness.)):
    Ged has an evil doppelganger known as "the nameless one" in a novel by this author. An ambassador travels across an ice sheet on the genderfluid planet of Gethen in another novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Williams [or Chales Walter Stansby Williams]):
    The thespian Pauline Anstruther is haunted by herdoppelganger in this author's "theological detective" novel Descent into Hell. This member of the Inklings also wrote about a bunch of Platonic archetypes disrupting life in an English village in his novel The Place of the Lion.

[B15] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Midway through this piece, strings continue to play in Molto adagio tempo while the rest of the orchestra accelerates and crescendos to tempo con fuoco. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Central Park in the Dark [accept A Contemplation of Nothing Serious]):
    Name this 1906 piece written for strings, two ragtime pianos, and a street band.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives [or Charles Edward Ives]):
    This composer published Central Park in the Dark alongside a thematically-similar piece titled The Unanswered Question.
  Part 3 (ans: John Philip Sousa ("SOO-zuh")):
    Central Park in the Dark repeatedly quotes the song "Hello! Ma Baby" as well as a piece by this composer of El Capitan and "The Thunderer."

[B16] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about African queens, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ashanti Empire):
    In 1900, Queen Yaa led this West African empire into the last of its three wars against the British in response to Frederick Hodgson's demand to sit on the Golden Stool.
  Part 2 (ans: Land of Punt):
    Reliefs on Queen Hatshepsut's temple at Deir el-Bahri depict the expedition she sent to this foreign land, probably in the Horn of Africa, from which the Egyptians obtained ebony and incense.
  Part 3 (ans: Queen Ana Nzinga of Ndongo and Matamba [or Ana de Sousa Nzinga Mbande]):
    Fifty third-gender concubines attended this 17th-century queen of Ndongo in present-day Angola, who resisted the Portuguese with an army of escaped slaves in Matamba.

[B17] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He composed Semper Fidelis and promoted the music of Wagner as the efficient leader of the US Marine Band. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Philip Sousa):
    Name this composer who wrote an elaborate piccolo solo for The Stars and Stripes Forever. He was nicknamed "March King" in a nod to Johann Strauss.
  Part 2 (ans: trio):
    This word names the lyrical second section of a march, and the counterpart of the minuet in the third movement of classical symphonies. This word names a type of sonata that Corelli wrote for two violins over a basso continuo.
  Part 3 (ans: break strain [or breakstrain; accept breakup strain, dogfight, or interlude]):
    Sousa ramped up the intensity by contrasting the gentler trio with these louder sections in which short, martial, chromatic phrases are often exchanged in a dialogue between high and low instruments.

[B18] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: I'll take 'Unconventional Orchestral Instruments' for 1000 please, Alex. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Concierto de Aranjuez):
    This three-movement composition by Joaquin Rodrigo is probably the best-known orchestral work to make significant use of classical guitar, and was inspired by the gardens of the eponymous palace.
  Part 2 (ans: John Philip Sousa):
    This American composer included his namesake instrument in the orchestra for operettas such as Desiree, as well as his more well-known marches.
  Part 3 (ans: Alto Flute):
    This rarely used woodwind instrument has a brief solo in Ravel's Daphnis et Chloe, written G# C# C D# G#. Unlike the normal variety of this instrument, its lowest note is the G below middle C.

[B19] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this group penned the lines "I am nothing / I shall never be anything / I cannot wish to be anything" in the poem "Tobacco Shop", written after his time living in Newcastle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms of Fernando Pessoa [or alter ego, pseudonym, nom de plume, or other rough equivalents in place of "heteronym"]):
    Name this group that includes the Englishman Alexander Search, whose death at twenty was commemorated in an epigraph; the doctor-detective Abilio Quaresma; and the poet Alvaro de Campos.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    One of Pessoa's heteronyms outlives him in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, a novel by this Portuguese author, who wrote of an epidemic of "white sickness" in his novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: The Stone Raft):
    Five people come together to travel across Iberia in this Saramago novel, in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from Europe and floats across the Atlantic.

[B20] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Published under the name Bernardo Soares, this book claims to be a "factless autobiography." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of Disquiet [or Livro do Desassossego: Composto por Bernardo Soares, ajudante de guarda-livros na cidade de Lisboa]):
    Name this work that develops the character of one of Fernando Pessoa's heteronyms as a man who lives a life of voluntary loneliness and existential thought.
  Part 2 (ans: Blindness [or Ensaio sobre a cegueira]):
    Another work of literature from the same country as The Book of Disquiet is this work in which the King of Ward 3 is killed with a pair of scissors. This book is about an illness that affects everyone except the Doctor's Wife.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose de Sousa Saramago):
    This Portuguese author wrote of how another of Pessoa's heteronyms hears of Pessoa's death and goes to Lisbon to live out his final days in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis. He also wrote Blindness.

[B21] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The chambermaid Lydia finds her way into the bed of this character, who pursues a romantic friendship with Marcenda, who is receiving treatment for her paralyzed arm. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ricardo Reis [accept either; accept The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis; accept O Ano da Morte de Ricardo Reis; prompt on Fernando Antonio Nogueira de Seabra Pessoa]):
    Name this doctor who returns on a steamship from Brazil, spends his days reading newspapers and Herbert Quain's novel The God of the Labyrinth, and calmly walks to a graveyard soon after a mutiny aboard three battleships.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose [de Sousa] Saramago):
    The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis was written by this Portuguese author who also wrote a novel in which only the doctor's wife is spared from the contagion of Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Death with Interruptions [or Death at Intervals; or As intermitencias da Morte]):
    In this novel by Saramago, the Maphia devise a plan whereby people are tossed outside a country's borders and die instantly. The title phenomenon is personified as a woman who falls in love with a cellist, ending a brief respite from immortality.

[B22] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He composed "King Cotton" for the 1895 Cotton States and International Exposition and "Semper Fidelis" as the official anthem of the U.S. Marine Corps. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Philip Sousa):
    Name this "March King", the American composer of "The Thunderer", "The Liberty Bell", and "Stars and Stripes Forever".
  Part 2 (ans: piccolo [do NOT accept or prompt on "flute"]):
    The closing section of the trio of "Stars and Stripes Forever" contains a notable solo countermelody for this woodwind instrument, which was first added to the symphony orchestra in the finale of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony.
  Part 3 (ans: The Washington Post):
    In 1889, this newspaper commissioned Sousa to write a march for the award ceremony for its essay contest. The resulting march became a dance craze as a two-step, and remains one of Sousa's most popular.
