=== STOCK CLUES: Cossacks ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 53 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 22 found, 66 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cossacks [or Zaporozhian Cossacks; accept Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks or Cossacks of Saporog Are Drafting a Manifesto and Cossacks are Writing a Letter to the Turkish Sultan; accept Cossacks on the Black Sea; accept Cossacks in Bautzen; prompt on Russians; prompt on Ukrainians; prompt on soldiers]
  - The Grand Chamberlain of a court refused to pose for a painting of these people, leading its artist to clandestinely sketch the back of his bald head.
  - That artist used a gypsum mask to paint the likeness of a former student who was too ill to pose as one of these people.
  - A group of these people greet children in Bautzen in a Bogdan Willewalde  painting.
  - The painting They Were Imprisoned depicts three dejected men with red plumed helmets being captured by these people.
  - A group of these people appear packed into a chaika during a storm in a painting titled for them "on the Black Sea." An opera singer, painters, and strongman were all models for a painting depicting these people laughing as they draft a vulgar written response to a sultan's demand to surrender.
  - For 10 points, Ilya Repin painted a group of what people "replying" to Mehmed IV? [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Cossacks [or Kazaki; accept Don Cossacks or Zaporozhian Cossacks; prompt on Ukrainians]
  - Islam-Girei III deserted a leader of this ethnicity three times, eventually forcing him to allow the annexation of the "left-bank" region of a modern-day country. [PWR]
  - This ethnicity adopted a constitution at Bendery that was guaranteed by a foreign king just before his exile to the Ottoman empire. [PWR]
  - A demand to increase the number of "registered" members of this ethnicity spurred an uprising that directly preceded the (*) Deluge in Poland-Lithuania.
  - During the Battle of Poltava, a leader of a "host" of this ethnicity betrayed Peter the Great for Swedish king Charles XII.
  - Ivan Mazepa and Bogdan Khmelnytsky were among the hetmans of the Zaporozhian branch of this ethnicity.
  - For 10 points, name this militaristic people that largely lived along the steppes of the Don River in Ukraine. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: cossacks [or the Zaporozhian Cossacks]
  - The national park on the island of Khortytsia  includes a museum dedicated to these people in the place where they established their first proto-state.
  - The unamended Treaty of Hadiach  would have elevated some of these people to the nobility and expanded their registry.
  - Charles XII  of Sweden confirmed a 1710 constitution drafted by these people under the leadership of Pylyp Orlyk  at Bender.
  - These people, who once sought to establish a "three-nation" Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, pledged allegiance to Tsar Alexis of Russia at the Pereyaslav Council during an uprising led by Bohdan Khmelnytsky .
  - These people legendarily called Sultan Mehmed IV  "the crick in [their] dick" after he ordered their Zaporozhian  Host to cease raiding.
  - For 10 points, name these frontier horsemen of the Ukrainian steppes. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 RULFO (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks to Sultan Mehmed IV of the Ottoman Empire (or The Zaporozhian Cossacks , accept any answer that mentions either Zaporozhye or Cossacks writing something)
  - The artist of this painting wrote that another artist "knows nothing" of the history of their country after that other artist compared this painting's subjects to revellers in a fancy restaurant. [PWR]
  - The artist of this painting later created a smaller version of it in which no one smokes a pipe. [PWR]
  - A lute-like instrument called a kobza sits on the lap of a man in this painting, who is identified as a gambler because he sits next to a deck of cards and does not wear a shirt. [PWR]
  - A man with a (*) quill at the center of this painting was modelled after the historian its artist consulted.
  - This painting was the most expensive painting ever sold in its country after Alexander III bought it for thirty-five thousand rubles.
  - In this painting, a fat man in a red suit and a white fur hat laughs as the title group dictates a list of insults such as "Goat-fucker of Alexandria" and "catamite of Tartary." For 10 points, name this Ilya Repin painting in which the title group drafts a letter to Mehmed IV. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: forced repatriations to the Soviet Union after World War II [accept answers indicating the sending of POWs to the Soviet Union or post-World War II population transfers to the Soviet Union; accept answers indicating the forced repatriation of the Cossacks; accept USSR or Russia in place of "Soviet Union"; prompt with "to what country?" on partial answers]
  - After being accused of complicity in these actions, Lord Aldington won a record 1.5 million pounds in a 1989 libel suit. [PWR]
  - Members of the Galicia Division avoided one of these actions by participating in the European Volunteer Workers scheme in Britain. [PWR]
  - The wacky monarchist Nikolai Tolstoy is best known for writing about the victims of these actions, which he discussed alongside a parallel event in Bleiburg, Austria, in his book The Minister and the Massacres. [PWR]
  - Operation Keelhaul, which subjected as many as a million to this action, is often called the (*) "betrayal" of one of the groups it targeted. [PWR]
  - Many Ostarbeiter committed suicide rather than undergo this action and face reeducation.
  - At the Yalta Conference, Churchill agreed to oversee these actions, resulting in many Cossacks and White Army emigres being handed over to imprisonment and execution.
  - For 10 points, name these actions by which many POWs and Nazi collaborators were returned to Stalin's country after World War II. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Cossacks [accept Zaporozhians before it is read; accept Don Cossacks; accept kozaky; accept kazaki, I guess; prompt on Members of the Ruthenian State]
  - A 1710 constitution written by one member of this people made provisions for the creation of a legislative General Council, and precluded Montesquieu's Spirit of the Laws by accounting for the separation of powers. [PWR]
  - Pylyp Orlyk was one of these people, as was Baida, the founder of one of their subgroups. [PWR]
  - The bulawa, a gem-encrusted mace, was the highest symbol of power for these people. [PWR]
  - The Czaplinski Affair sparked a revolt by these people against the (*) Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, known as the Khmelnytsky Uprising. [PWR]
  - Mehmed IV was told that he "could not slay a hedgehog with his naked arse" in a reply by the Zaporozhian group of these people, a scene painted by Ilya Repin.
  - The city of Kazan was taken from Catherine the Great during a revolt by, for 10 points, which group of Slavic raiders that included Yemelyan Pugachev? [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Cossacks [prompt on Russians]
  - One of these people becomes a hero by saving a boy from drowning in a novel in which these people are impressed by a man's ability to shoot pheasants on the wing.
  - In another novel, one of these people falls in love with Aksinia but whips her when he finds out she has been having an affair with Eugene.
  - A man who lives with these people has his marriage proposal rejected when Luka is shot in the belly during a raid by marauders, and then asks to be transferred to a different unit.
  - That character befriends Eroshka in a novel titled for these people in which they clash with a group of Chechens.
  - For 10 points, name these people, the subjects of Mikhail Sholokhov's And Quiet Flows the Don and a short novel by Leo Tolstoy. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Cossacks (accept Zaporozhian Cossacks)
  - The papal diplomat Carlo Gamberini reported that these people "never eat bread" and that they got their name from showing the comparative agility of goats. [PWR]
  - The "Eyewitness Chronicle" is a 18th-century manuscript history of these people, whose first major settlement was at a site called the "clearing beyond the rapids." The "fortress" section of this group was used in a system of defenses called the "zaseka." Members of this group mixed with the Nogay people when they settled on the (*) Terek River.
  - A member of this group is shown wearing a white fur hat and a pink jacket in an 1891 painting by Ilya Repin depicting the vulgar message this group sent to an overbearing Ottoman sultan.
  - "Hetman" and "ataman" were leadership titles used among, for 10 points, what group of frontier horsemen who patrolled the steppes of imperial Russia? [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Cossacks [or Kazaki; accept specific groups of Cossacks, such as Don Cossacks; prompt on "German soldiers" or "Russians" or "enemies of the Soviet Union" or "Communist opponents"]
  - The British historian Shane O'Rourke, whose two books are about the history of these people, has argued that certain ethnic assimilation measures directed at them could constitute genocide.
  - Helmuth von Pannwitz established a volunteer force of these people who were incorporated into the Waffen SS against his will in February 1945. [PWR]
  - In an event called the "betrayal" of these people during Operation Keelhaul, a number of POWs who were these people were executed in Judenberg after the British turned them over (*) in accordance with terms agreed to at Yalta.
  - The executives of the khutor and stanitsa communities in which most of these people lived were given orders to extirpate them as an independent group during the Russian Civil War.
  - These people organized themselves in councils called rada which elected leaders called atamans.
  - Many of them defected from the Soviet Union to serve in German cavalry units during World War II.
  - For 10 points, name these militaristic East Slavic peoples, many of whom lived along the Don River. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Masha Gessen's book about a place under this leader dubs it "the worst good idea ever." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin [Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzhugashvili]):
    Name this leader, during whose reign Birobidzhan ("bih-roh-bee-JAHN") was founded as the center of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast. He oversaw the USSR's entrance into World War II.
  Part 2 (ans: cossacks [or Ukrainian Cossacks; or Zaporizhian Cossacks]):
    A branch of these non-Jewish people comprised most of Birobidzhan's population. Leaders of these people often took the title of hetman.
  Part 3 (ans: Politburo [or Politbureau CC CPSS; or political bureau]):
    Birobidzhan was the site of a never-realized Yiddish conference planned by Lazar Kaganovich of this Stalinist organization. It shares its name with the central policymaking committee of a communist party.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Masha Gessen's book about a place under this leader dubs it "the worst good idea ever" and frames its story around David Bergelson, who vigorously promoted settlement to it while pretending to live there. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    Name this leader, during whose reign Birobidzhan ("bih-roh-bee-JAHN") was founded to be the center of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast. He oversaw the USSR's entrance into World War II.
  Part 2 (ans: cossacks [accept Ukrainian Cossacks; accept Zaporizhian Cossacks]):
    A branch of these people, not Jews, made up a majority of Birobidzhan's population. Leaders of these people often took the title of hetman, such as a man who defected from Peter the Great's side at the Battle of Poltava.
  Part 3 (ans: Lazar Kaganovich):
    Birobidzhan was the site of a never-realized Yiddish language conference planned by this man, the only Jewish member of Stalin's Politburo. He earned the nickname "Iron Lazar" for executing Stalin's purges.

[B3] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Catherine the Great resettled a subgroup of these people in Kuban to solidify Russian control in the Caucasus amidst conflict with the Ottomans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cossacks [accept Black Sea Cossack Host]):
    Name these people often recruited into the Russian Army whose Yaik host revolted under Yemelyan Pugachev.
  Part 2 (ans: Nogai Khan [or Nogay Khan; accept Nogais]):
    The Black Sea Cossack Host's settlement in Kuban coincided with the forcible resettlement of people named for this ruler west of the Don River then to the Caspian Sea. This ruler received Bulgarian peasant leader Ivaylo in his court, but allowed his murder during a feast.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Suvorov [or Count Alexander Vasilyevich Suvorov-Rymniksky]):
    This man put down the Kuban Nogai Uprising, which arose out of opposition to a plan to resettle the group to the Urals. With Black Sea Cossack Host support, this man besieged the fortress of Izmail.

[B4] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Honore de Balzac's Les Chouans (le shwanh) was originally published under a title referencing this author, whom Eugene Sue shamelessly ripped off in The Mysteries of Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Fenimore Cooper):
    Name this English-language author, who inspired the title of the novel that coined the expression "cherchez (SHER-sheh) le femme." Vissarion Belinsky compared this author favorably to Shakespeare.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexandre Dumas, pere):
    The film noir catchphrase "cherchez la femme" originates from this author's Cooper-influenced detective novel, The Mohicans of Paris. This author also wrote The Three Musketeers and The Count of Monte Cristo.
  Part 3 (ans: The Cossacks [or Kazaki]):
    Olenin thinks of Fenimore Cooper's The Pathfinder while searching for tracks in this Leo Tolstoy novella. In this novella, Olenin befriends Eroshka, one of the title characters, while fighting in the Caucasian War.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel ends mid-sentence with the phrase "because we all see this now darkly, and we barely...," part of an anti-corruption speech. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Dead Souls [or Mjortvyje dushi]):
    Name this novel whose protagonist entices landowners with tax relief in order to purchase the title entities. This novel's protagonist is arrested for attempting to forge the will of Khlobuyev's aunt.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Gogol [or Nikolai Vasilievich Yanovsky]):
    This Russian author wrote Dead Souls. His short stories include "The Overcoat" and "The Nose."
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks [or Zaporozhians; or Zaporozhian Cossacks; or Zaporozhian Host; or Viisko Zaporozke; or The Cossacks; or Kazaki] (The Gogol novella is Taras Bulba. The Tolstoy novel is The Cossacks.)):
    The title character of a Gogol novella who belongs to this group is tied to a tree and burned alive at the novella's end. The protagonist Olenin attempts to marry a member of this group in a Tolstoy novel titled for them.

[B6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Prince Dmytro Vyshnevetsky ("vish-neh-VETS-ski") established a stronghold on this region's Mala Khortytsia ("KOR-tits-yuh") Island, near where Vladimir the Great's grandfather Sviatoslav was killed by Pecheneg raiders. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaporizhzhia ("za-po-REEZH-yuh") [or Zaporozhzhia or Zaporzke or Zaporozhtsi; accept Zaporizhian Host or Zaporizhian Sich; accept Zaporizhian Cossacks or Zaporizhians; prompt on Dnieper River; prompt on Dnipropetrovsk Oblast or Dnipropetrovshchyna; prompt on Ukraine]):
    Identify this region whose namesake Host was governed by chief officers called the koshovyi ("kuh-SHOHV-yee"). This region, whose name means "land beyond the rapids," also names a Sich ("seetch") that was destroyed by Peter Tekeli.
  Part 2 (ans: Catherine the Great [or Catherine II of Russia; accept Yekaterina Alekseyevna; accept Sophie Fredericke Auguste or Sophie of Anhalt-Zerbst; prompt on Catherine of Russia]):
    This empress ordered the destruction of the Zaporizhian Sich after the Russo-Turkish War ended in her favor in 1774. An army of Ural Cossacks under Yemelyan Pugachev burned Kazan during a rebellion against this ruler.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Poltava):
    Russian distrust of Zaporizhian leaders or hetmans had earlier climaxed with Ivan Mazepa's betrayal at this 1709 battle of the Great Northern War, after which Peter the Great captured Field Marshal Carl Rehnskiold ("RAIN-skyold").

[B7] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Original-language term required. Bohuslav Martinu's four piano pieces in this form include "Contemplation" and "Elegy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dumka [or dumky] (The piece is Dvorak's Piano Quintet No. 2.)):
    Name this thoughtful type of song. In one piece, a movement named for this form begins with a solemn F-sharp minor theme in 2/4 that repeatedly alternates with lighter, faster, major-key themes.
  Part 2 (ans: piano trio [reject partial answers]):
    Six dumky appear throughout Dvorak's ("d-VOR-zhak's") fourth piece for this ensemble, which is also nicknamed Dumky. These ensembles are made up of a cello, a violin, and a namesake keyboard instrument.
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks [or Kazaki; prompt on Ukrainians] (The tone poem is Mazeppa. Lysenko was reputedly a descendant of the Cossack Vovgura Lys.)):
    Dvorak incorporated the dumka into his piano trio and quintet after it was popularized by Mykola Lysenko, a composer descended from these people. Another composer turned a piano etude named for a leader of these people into a tone poem with sections named for his "ride" and "march."

[B8] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: During Iran's Constitutional Revolution, a unit of these troops kept order in Tehran for a year and guarded Mohammad Ali Shah. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cossacks [or Qazzaqa or Kazaki; accept Persian Cossack Bridge, or Iranian Cossack Brigade, or Berigad-e Qazzaq]):
    Name these soldiers who comprised an elite brigade of the late Qajar ("kah-JAR") dynasty. One of their officers, Reza Khan ("ruh-ZAH CON"), mobilized them for the 1921 coup that overthrew the Qajars.
  Part 2 (ans: Djibouti ("jih-BOO-tee") [or Republic of Djibouti, or Jamhuuriyadda Jabuuti, or Gabuutih Ummuuno; prompt on French Somaliland but reject "Somaliland"]):
    In 1889 a bunch of Cossacks claimed that Menelik II ("the-second") of Ethiopia let them settle this present-day country, which confused the French, as it was already their colony. This East African country is full of foreign military bases and abuts ("uh-BUTTS") the Bab-el-Mandeb ("BAHB el mon-DEB").
  Part 3 (ans: Roman (Feodorovich) von Ungern ("OON-gairn")-Sternberg [or Baron Ungern, or Nikolai Robert Maximilian Freiherr von Ungern-Sternberg; accept Mad Baron or Bloody Baron; prompt on Roman Feodorovich]):
    This Cossack regiment officer assembled Bashkirs ("BASH-keerz"), Mongols, Cossacks, and others into the Asiatic Cavalry Division, which he led in 1921 to restore a revolutionary Buddhist monarchy in Mongolia.

[B9] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about early Russian expansion into Siberia:
  Part 1 (ans: Cossacks [or Kazaki]):
    The pioneering explorer of Siberia, Yermak, was a hetman of these semi-nomadic, warlike Slavic people. Many of them lived on the banks of the Don river.
  Part 2 (ans: Kazan [accept Kazan Khanate or Kazan Cathedral]):
    The expansion was facilitated by Ivan the Terrible's conquest of this Tatar city, which he celebrated by building a cathedral in Moscow named for it. Today, this city is the capital of Tatarstan.
  Part 3 (ans: blockhouses):
    To solidify its control of Siberia, as well as later Alaska, Russia built many examples of these buildings known as ostrogi. These small forts, which are similar to pillboxes, contain small holes to fire weapons from.

[B10] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist arranged three skulls in his Pyramid of Skulls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Cezanne ("say-zahn")):
    Name this artist who also placed a skull next to a candle and book in a still life. This artist also depicted Mont Sainte-Victoire in increasingly abstract fashion beginning in the late 19th century.
  Part 2 (ans: The Ambassadors [or Jean de Dinteville and Georges de Selve]):
    An anamorphic skull is stretched across the ground in this painting. This painting by Hans Holbein the Younger depicts a lute and multiple globes on a shelf between the two title diplomats.
  Part 3 (ans: Russia [or Russian Empire; do not accept or prompt on "Soviet Union" or "USSR"] (The artists are Vasily Vereschagin and Ilya Repin; the Repin painting is Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks.)):
    An artist from this country depicted a large pyramid of skulls in his Apotheosis of War. Another artist from this country depicted a hefty man with a large mustache laughing while a man with a bowl cut is writing a letter.

[B11] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A group of these people known as the Zaporozhian Host based in the lower Dnieper rebelled against Polish control during the Khmelnytsky uprising. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cossacks [or Kozacy or Kazaky]):
    Name these nomadic people who often fought for Russia in exchange for political autonomy, though under leaders like Yemelyan Pugachev they sometimes revolted against the Russian government.
  Part 2 (ans: John II Casimir [or John Casimir]):
    This Polish king defeated the Zaporozhian Host at the Battle of Beresteczko, but subsequently faced a Russian invasion in support of the Cossacks. The many invasions of Poland during his reign are known as the Deluge.
  Part 3 (ans: Sweden [or Sverige]):
    The Deluge also saw an invasion of Poland by this other country, which had been united with Poland in a personal union under John II's father Sigismund III.

[B12] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In its country of origin, this 19th century artistic movement was succeeded by the Art Nouveau-inspired "world of art" movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Wanderers [or Peredvizhniki; or The Itinerants; or The Society for Traveling Exhibitions; or Obshchestvo peredvizhnykh vystavok]):
    Name this movement that grew out of a protest of the Imperial Academy's competition to depict "The Entry of Odin into Valhalla." It was named for its mobile exhibitions, which mainly featured nationalistic landscapes.
  Part 2 (ans: Russia [or the Russian Empire]):
    Ilya Repin was a member of the Wanderers who painted the toils of peasants from this country, such as in his Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 3 (ans: cossacks [or The Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks to Sultan Mehmed IV of the Ottoman Empire]):
    Just before dying, Repin painted an elaborately dressed member of this group in The Hopak. Repin also depicted a "Reply" of people of this group that shows a raucous group of them laughing while drafting a letter.

[B13] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of this poem says, "It isn't me, someone else is suffering. I couldn't. / Not like this." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Requiem [or Rekviyem]):
    Name this poem whose opening prose paragraph is set near Leningrad prison. This collection mourns the author's son and husband, who were arrested by the Stalinist regime.
  Part 2 (ans: "Crucifixion"):
    This 10th part of Requiem opens, "Weep not for me, mother. / I am alive in my grave." In this last section before the epilogue, not "one person dared to look" at where "the mother stood silent."
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks):
    Requiem's line "silent flows the river Don" may be a reference to the folk songs of these people. Tolstoy wrote about the romance between Olenin and Maryanka in a novella about this Slavic ethnic group.

[B14] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting, these people are composing a text which asserts that "the Devil shits and your army swallow it", and insults the recipient as "a Macedonian mechanic" and "a nasty glob of spit". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zaporozhian Cossacks [or Cossacks of Saporog]):
    Name this group of people, who in that work are seen laughing uproariously as they compose a reply to Mehmed IV's request for surrender.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    The Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks is among the paintings that this Russian artist created as a tribute to his Ukrainian homeland. He also painted some rather tired labourers in Barge Haulers on the Volga.
  Part 3 (ans: Vasily Vereshchagin):
    This Russian contemporary of Repin depicted war in a rather more sombre and unflinching fashion in works like The Apotheosis of War, which shows a colossal pyramid of skulls in a desert.

[B15] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Peter the Great had a lot of trouble to deal with in Russia. Answer some questions about them, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: streltsy):
    While travelling, Peter the Great faced rebellions among these military units, the musket-wielding guards regiments of Tsarist Russia. He dealt with the problem of these soldiers by having a lot of them killed horribly.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexei Petrovich Romanov):
    Peter the Great also quarrelled with a son of his with this name, the child of his first wife Eudoxia, who once tried to flee Russia. He dealt with the problem of this person by having him brought back and killed horribly.
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks):
    Peter the Great had such a poor relationship with these independent-minded people, some of whom lived along the Don River, that they rose up in the Bulavin Rebellion. He dealt with the problem of these people by having a lot of them killed horribly.

[B16] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The winning side in this war pursued a failed economic policy of "war communism." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russian Civil War):
    Name this conflict between the Red and White Armies that began after the fall from power of Nicholas II.
  Part 2 (ans: Nestor Makhno):
    In the Ukraine, the Red and White Armies were opposed by the Black Army, which was led by this anarchist.
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks):
    These people were targeted for extermination after the Russian Civil War, since their Zaporozhian and Kuban groups had sided with the White Army.

[B17] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man visualized an eerie mermaid procession in his painting Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ilya Repin):
    Name this Russian realist painter and member of the Wanderers who painted Barge Haulers on the Volga. He depicted a crippled boy being beaten away from a crowd in Religious Procession in Kursk Province.
  Part 2 (ans: The Zaporozhian Cossacks):
    Repin illustrated the "reply" of these Slavic horsemen to Mehmed IV as well as showing them "on the Black Sea" and "dancing" in other works. In the first painting, they sit around a table laughing as they think of more insults to write.
  Part 3 (ans: Vasily Vasilyevich Vereshchagin (VERE-uh-SHAH-gin)):
    This other Russian artist and contemporary of the Wanderers made many anti-War paintings. His painting The Apotheosis of War, which shows a pyramid of skulls, is dedicated to "to all conquerors, past, present and to come."

[B18] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The bad blood between these groups may have stemmed from a December 2014 assault at a Toys for Tots event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bandidos Motorcycle Club AND Cossacks [both answers required]):
    Name these two biker gangs who engaged in a vicious shootout on May 17, 2015, in Waco, Texas. Eight members of these two gangs were slain.
  Part 2 (ans: Twin Peaks):
    The Waco, Texas, shooting occurred at a restaurant and bar that was part of this Texas based chain, which features revealingly dressed waitresses. The Waco branch was shut down by this chain after the incident.
  Part 3 (ans: Baltimore, Maryland):
    Cynics have noted that the media's coverage of this shootout differed from the coverage of the riots in this East Coast city protesting the death of Freddie Gray, presumably because most of the bikers were white.

[B19] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This company exported a lot of tallow and controlled trade around Archangelsk. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Muscovy Company):
    Name this company that was expelled from much of its namesake region after outrage following the beheading of Charles I.
  Part 2 (ans: Alexius I [prompt on Alexius]):
    This tsar booted the Muscovy Company from everywhere but Archangelsk. Patriarch Nikon caused the Raskol controversy during this man's reign and Stenka Razin's revolt was also during this man's time as tsar.
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks [accept Don Cossacks]):
    Stenka Razin, a member of this ethnic group, led an uprising during Alexius's reign. Many of these people lived near the Don River, they were led by hetmen and they liked horses a lot.

[B20] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Robert Muldoon attempted to grow the industrial infrastructure of this nation by using the "Think Big" strategy, which involved borrowing from foreign powers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: New Zealand):
    Muldoon served as National Party leader in this country, where he conducted the "Dawn Raids" afer taking power in 1975.
  Part 2 (ans: Snowy Mountains Scheme):
    Muldoon poked fun at this massive hydroelectric scheme, begun in Australia in 1949 under the direction of William Hud-son. This scheme employed 16 dams and 7 power stations to divert three upland rivers into serving as irrigation for hundreds of miles of arid Australian land.
  Part 3 (ans: Cossacks):
    Muldoon also created a hilarious TV commercial in which several of these historical fgures dance across the screen and tell the audience that the Labour government is communist. Unfortunately, these historical people, who have included Ivan Mazeppa and Yemelyan Pugachev, were not all that friendly to communists.

[B21] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: One of the most prominent groups of these people was the Don Host. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cossacks [or kazaky]):
    Name these somewhat nomadic residents of the steppes of Eastern Europe. Bands of these people often served in the Polish or Russian armies.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Fyodorovich Romanov [or Michael]):
    The rebellion of the cossack leader Zarutskii was put down early in the reign of this first Romanov czar. He was chosen to rule by the zemsky sobor, and his reign basically ended the Time of Troubles.
  Part 3 (ans: Bohdan (or Bogdan) Khmelnitsky):
    Another rebel cossack leader was this hetman of the Zaporozhian Host, who began his rebellion in 1648 in the reign of Wladislaw IV of Poland. Ukrainians often consider him a national hero; Poles and Jews tend to disagree.

[B22] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An earlier version of this painting was set in an oak wood, but open returning home to deforestation, the artist set the final version in a sparse landscape during a drought. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Religious Procession in Kursk Province [or Krestnyy khod v Kurskoy gubernii; or Easter Procession in the District of Kursk or Religious Process in Kursk Gubernia]):
    Name this painting which shows a red-haired priest and a hunchback boy walking at the front of a large crowd in Russia.
  Part 2 (ans: Ilya Yefimovich Repin):
    This Russian painter of Religious Procession in Kursk Province often painted lower-class subjects, as in The Volga Boatmen.
  Part 3 (ans: the Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks [or the Cossacks of Saporog Are Drafting a Manifesto; or close translations]):
    In this Repin painting, a bunch of ugly, laughing warriors stand around a table as one of their men pens an insult-filled letter to Mehmed IV.
