=== STOCK CLUES: Rob Roy ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 8 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Rob Roy
  - In a running gag from this novel, amateurish poems written by the protagonist keep falling out of his journals and books. [PWR]
  - Its protagonist attends a church service unusually held in the catacombs, when a stranger comes up behind him and whispers "You are in danger in this city." In this novel, a hostage who is executed by drowning in a lake turns out to be the same man who had accused the protagonist of pilfering money from his portmanteau. [PWR]
  - The antagonist of this novel is first met at a fox-hunt, and is nearly killed in a duel by the protagonist after being discovered embezzling funds from Mr. [PWR]
  - Tresham. [PWR]
  - The comic relief in this novel is provided by the magistrate (*) Baillie Jarvie and the gardener Andrew Fairservice. [PWR]
  - The title character of this novel is saved by his ruthless wife Helen, and kills Rashleigh after strategically altering Sir Hildebrand's will so that the protagonist inherits his father's estate.
  - The protagonist of this novel marries his cousin "Die," or Diana, Vernon.
  - For 10 points, name this novel in which Frank Osbaldistone crosses paths with the title outlaw, written by Sir Walter Scott. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A playwright from this country who analyzed the growth of feelings in Plays on the Passions was assumed to be male, until it was pointed out her protagonists were middle-aged women. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Scotland [prompt on United Kingdom or UK or Great Britain; reject "England"] (Plays on the Passions is by Joanna Baillie. The novel is Rob Roy.)):
    Name this country, where an orphan raised by a shepherd declares "my name is Norval." An outlaw helps Frank Osbaldistone in a novel from this country widely adapted for the stage.
  Part 2 (ans: Sarah Siddons [or Sarah Kemble]):
    Norval appears in Douglas, the play that featured this actress's final stage appearance. This actress set a candle down during Lady Macbeth's sleepwalking scene as part of her innovation of that role.
  Part 3 (ans: witches [accept Three Witches or Weird Sisters]):
    Macbeth is called the "Scottish play" due to these people supposedly placing a curse on it for using real incantations. Three of these people tell Macbeth a prophecy.

[B2] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Though Katherine Anne Porter insisted that she never read this series of books, she probably did borrow a title from it for her own novel Old Mortality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tales of My Landlord [prompt on Waverley novels]):
    Name this series of novels which purports to consist of stories from the Wallace Inn compiled by editor Jedediah Cleishbotham ("KLEESH-bahth-um"). This series's author dictated most of its entry The Legends of Montrose to its actual editor, John Ballantyne.
  Part 2 (ans: Rob Roy):
    Sir Walter Scott's Tales of My Landlord include this novel, which is set during the aftermath of the "15 rising" and is titled for the nickname of the outlaw Frank Osbaldistone ("uz-BALD-iss-tun").
  Part 3 (ans: Anglo-Scottish border [or Scottish borderlands; accept Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border; accept border ballads; accept Liddesdale Hills or Peebles, Scotland; prompt on English border; reject "Highlands" because those are well north of the border]):
    The first of the Tales of My Landlord, titled The Black Dwarf, fictionalizes the life of a quarryman who lives in this region. The novel draws heavily on a collection of Minstrelsy of [this place] compiled by Scott.

[B3] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man, who wrote fictional travelogues under the pen name Thomas Strangeways, proclaimed the "Republic of the Floridas" after conquering the Spanish garrison on Amelia Island. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gregor MacGregor):
    Name this man slightly better known for claiming to be the Cazique of a completely fictional paradise known as Poyais.
  Part 2 (ans: Miskito [or Miskitu; or Miskitu Sambo/Tawira; or Mosquito]):
    These indigenous people, divided into Tawira and Zambo groups, facilitated MacGregor's scheme when their nominal "King" George Frederic Augustus I signed over title to eight million acres of their land.
  Part 3 (ans: Rob Roy MacGregor):
    Naturally, Gregor MacGregor claimed to be the great-nephew of this outlaw called the "Highland Rogue," whose life inspired a certain Waverly novel.

[B4] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Whenever this writer presented historical background information in his novels, he would humorously attribute it to the scholar "Dryasdust." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Name this author who wrote about the Jacobite rebellion in Waverley and about a knight who marries Rowena and fights for King Richard the Lionheart in Ivanhoe.
  Part 2 (ans: Rob Roy):
    In this novel by Scott, the disinherited Frank Osbaldistone goes to Scotland to track down Rashleigh. The title Highlander disguises himself as the cattle dealer Campbell and dies saving Frank and his love Diana.
  Part 3 (ans: Tales of My Landlord):
    This subseries of Scott's Waverley novels include The Heart of Midlothian and The Bride of Lammermoor. It begins with The Black Dwarf, whose introduction claims this collection was edited by Jedediah Cleishbotham.

[B5] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: It begins before the Jacobite Uprisings of 1715 and concludes after much bloodshed, which allows Frank Osbaldistone to marry Diana Vernon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rob Roy):
    Name this historical novel that interpolates stories about the title outlaw into its narrative.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Rob Roy was written by this Scottish author of politically charged historical romances.
  Part 3 (ans: Tales of My Landlord):
    Some of Scott's best prose includes Old Mortality and Castle Dangerous, which forms this grouping of four series of novels from the Waverly series. It takes its name from a fictional personage who collected them before they were compiled and sent to Jedidiah Cleishbotham, the title figure.

[B6] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Rashleigh absconds with his family's assets in order to ruin the economy of the Scottish highlands and inspire them to revolt against England. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rob Roy):
    Name this questionably-plotted novel, in which Frank Osbaldistone tries to recover those assets during the Highland Rising of 1715.
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Scott):
    This author of Ivanhoe and Waverley wrote Rob Roy.
  Part 3 (ans: The Heart of Midlothian):
    This Scott novel opens with a description of the Porteous Riots and focuses on the wrongly-imprisoned Effie Dean, who is ultimately pardoned by Queen Caroline.
