=== STOCK CLUES: The Lady of the Lake ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 10 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: lakes [accept Swan Lake or Le Lac des cygnes or Lebedinoje ozero; accept La Donna del Lago or The Lady of the Lake; accept The Lake in the Mountains]
  - This is the first type of place in the title of a slow piano piece in mixed 6/8 and 9/8 time by Ralph  Vaughan Williams.
  - A Rossini piece for clarinet and orchestra draws on an opera titled for one of these places in which a king disguises himself to seduce Elena.
  - In the waltz from a suite titled for one of these places, violins introduce the jaunty melody "rest, C-sharp, short B, long D, C-sharp." In that suite titled for one of these places, a solo oboe plays a long F-sharp, then a scalar ascent from low B to F-sharp.
  - The "Dance of the Goblets" is from a ballet titled for one of these places that Lev Ivanov and Marius Petipa revived in 1895.
  - For 10 points, what type of place titles a ballet featuring Prince Siegfried, the evil sorcerer von Rothbart, and the swan Odette, with music by Tchaikovsky? [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: the Lady of the Lake [prompt on strange women lying on their backs in ponds, distributing swords and such; also accept any of a bewildering variety of alternate names like Morgue, Evienne, Ninianne, or Nyneve; accept Vivian or Nimue until mentioned and prompt thereafter]
  - In one work, this figure is killed by a man whose mother this figure contrived to have burnt; that man had just received a sword from an impersonator of Lile [pronounced like "Lily"] of Avelion. [PWR]
  - In another work, this child of Dyonas traps another character in the Forest of Broceliande. [PWR]
  - A character (*) identified as this figure is decapitated by Balin the Savage, and this figure raises the knights Lionel, Bors, and Lancelot.
  - Other names for this figure include Vivian and Nimue.
  - For 10 points, name this figure from Arthurian legend, who presented Arthur with Excalibur. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Leadin: This man died of wounds received while fighting for Sir Ontzlake, who had recently received a spear wound through both legs, against the champion of Ontzlake's evil brother Sir Damas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Accolon of Gaul):
    Name this knight who was tricked by Morgan le Fay into wielding Excalibur in a duel against his lord, Arthur. Were he to prevail, Morgan intended to murder her husband Urien and marry this man.
  Part 2 (ans: throwing it into a lake [accept returning it to the Lady of the Lake; accept answers that mention placing Excalibur in water; prompt on throwing or equivalents]):
    While Arthur lay healing in an abbey, Morgan deprived him of Excalibur's scabbard by performing this action. After the Battle of Camlann, Arthur instructed Sir Bedivere to do this with Excalibur to return it to its origin.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Yvain [or Sir Ywain; or Sir Owain; or Sir Uwaine; prompt on Knight of the Lion]):
    Believing Accolon to have prevailed, Morgan tried to murder her husband Urien but was stopped by this man, their son. In a romance by Chretien de Troyes, this knight defeats Esclados, the guardian of a fountain.

[B2] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Quite a few nineteenth-century Italian composers chose to set their works in Scotland. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La donna del lago [accept The Lady of the Lake]):
    Gioacchino Rossini set a trend by setting this opera in Scotland. James V disguises himself as "Uberto" to seduce Douglas's daughter Elena, the title character of this work.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucia di Lammermoor [accept Lucy of Lammermoor]):
    Gaetano Donizetti depicted the feud between the Ravenswoods and the Ashtons in this opera. The title character, the lover of Edgardo, recounts a chilling dream in "Regnava nel silencio."
  Part 3 (ans: Macbeth):
    Unlike Rossini and Donizetti, Giuseppe Verdi turned to William Shakespeare, not Walter Scott, to write this opera, set in Scotland and featuring the Witches' Chorus and the aria Una macchia e qui tuttora! ("Yet here's a spot!")

[B3] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A scene in this poem in which Roderick Dhu lights a burning cross inspired the Ku Klux Klan's practice of doing the same. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Lady of the Lake):
    Name this narrative poem, which includes a celebrated scene in which Ellen Douglas sings an Ave Maria. It helped to spark the 19th-century Highland Revival.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    The Lady of the Lake is by this Scottish poet of The Lay of the Last Minstrel, who may be better known for such novels as Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
  Part 3 (ans: Felicia Dorothea Hemans):
    This other Georgian-era poet used two lines from Scott's Marmion as the epigraph for a poem that begins: "The stately homes of England / How beautiful they stand / Amidst their tall ancestral trees / O'er the pleasant land".

[B4] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Leadin: In La Morte D'Arthur, this figure sparks a blood feud after killing King Lot of Orkney, and in another story this man kills Griflet after Miles asks for vengeance for his master. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pellinore):
    Name this father of Percival who once breaks King Arthur's sword in a series of three jousts.
  Part 2 (ans: Questing Beast):
    Pellinore is best known for spending almost all of his time hunting after this creature, which has the head of a snake, body of a leopard, feet of a dear, and hindlegs of a lion.
  Part 3 (ans: the Lady of the Lake):
    The sword broken by Pellinore is the sword Arthur pulled from the stone. In contrast, Excalibur, in most accounts, is the sword given to Arthur by this figure.
