=== STOCK CLUES: Walter Scott ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 67 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 TELEOLOGY (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Scotland [or Scottish Rite or Scottish Presbyterianism; accept Walter Scott; prompt on United Kingdom or Great Britain]
  - An American minister whose surname refers to this country developed the "five-finger" plan for salvation. [PWR]
  - In this country, a spiritual foundation created a sustainable complex known for its "barrel house" architecture; that complex in this country was the first place to be referred to as an "ecovillage." A  scholar-missionary from this country wrote the enormous five-volume text Chinese Classics, which translated those texts along with many neo-Confuscian commentaries. [PWR]
  - The North American Disciples of Christ movement has its roots in a denomination from this country. [PWR]
  - The nationality of this country provides the most common name for a 33-level (*) degree system popularized globally by the American Albert Pike and symbolized by a double-headed eagle. [PWR]
  - Peter and Eileen Caddy founded the New Age Findhorn Community in this country.
  - The nationality of this country names the most widely practiced Rite in Freemasonry.
  - An ecumenical community in this country is named after its abbey of Iona.
  - For 10 points, name this country whose national church is a denomination of Presbyterianism known as The Kirk. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Walter Scott (The second line is from Mark Twain's Life on the Mississippi.)
  - A joke that at Waterloo, "none, by sabre or by shot, fell half so flat" as this author was widely circulated after this author's poem "The Field at Waterloo" received scathing reviews.
  - A memoir complains that this author made American Southerners value their "bogus decorations" and that this author's so-called "disease" therefore partly caused the American Civil War.
  - This author wrote, "What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive!" in a poem published with copious antiquarian notes.
  - In a novel by this author, the Jewish moneylender Isaac of York is ordered arrested by the Templar Brian de Bois-Guilbert, who dies in a trial by combat.
  - In a novel by this author, a knight disguises himself as Desdichado after returning from the Crusades and falls in love with Rowena.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Marmion and Ivanhoe. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Sir Walter Scott
  - An acclaimed, posthumously-published journal by this author recounts being ruined upon the collapse of their publisher, Ballantyne & Co. [PWR]
  - This author's use of mediocre heroes created a new type of fiction employed by Balzac and Tolstoy, according to a Marxist reading by Gyorgy Lukacs ["gee-or-gee loo-cash"] that helped rebuild this author's reputation.
  - Thomas Carlyle introduced his book on Cromwell's Letters and Speeches with an essay bashing one of this author's characters. [PWR]
  - This author sometimes cited tedious prefatory information from the fictional antiquarian (+) Dryasdust. [PWR]
  - One book attacks this author for introducing "the jejune romanticism of an absurd past that is long dead" and leading every gentleman to be "a Major or a Colonel, or a General or a Judge." That chapter in Life on the Mississippi blames this author for causing the Civil War by inspiring the Southern obsession with (*) chivalry. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of historical novels like Waverley. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sir Walter Scott
  - Source material by this author inspired an opera in which a farmer's wife warns "knight, felon, and villain" as well as "young girl [and] young lover" to beware its title woman in the ballad "D'ici voyez ce beau domaine" . [PWR]
  - In addition to Adrien Boieldieu's La dame blanche, this author inspired a notoriously unfaithful adaptation in which the tenor fights a duel over a glovemaker's coquettish daughter and sings a serenade borrowed from (*) Don Procopio.
  - In the first Italian opera based on this author's work, the heroic tenor Rodrigo, the tenore di grazia Uberto, and a contralto en travesti are rivals for the hand of Elena.
  - Another opera based on this author's work features the sextet "Chi mi frena in tal momento," which follows the signing of a marriage contract to a man whom the protagonist later murders.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose works inspired the libretti to La jolie fille de Perth  and Lucia di Lammermoor. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Frankenstein [or Frankenstein; Or, The Modern Prometheus] (Sir Walter Scott's review assumed Percy Shelley wrote the novel.)
  - In a preface to this novel, its author recalls being inspired by "the History of the Inconstant Lover" and "the tale of the sinful founder of his race." The authorship of this novel is misattributed in a review that examines its quoting of the line, "We rest - A dream has power to poison sleep." That line is quoted in a scene from this novel where the protagonist climbs a glacier during a trip to the countryside. [PWR]
  - After he (*) studies the behavior of a man who reads from The Ruins of Empire, a character in this novel asks for a female companion.
  - This novel opens with Captain Robert Walton's letters to his sister while on an expedition to the North Pole, and ends with a man mourning the dead body of his creator, Victor.
  - For 10 points, name this Mary Shelley novel subtitled "the Modern Prometheus." [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Sir Walter Scott
  - This author was once criticized for promoting "the jejune romanticism of an absurd past that is dead, and out of charity ought to be buried." Frederick Douglass got his surname from a character in one of this author's poems. [PWR]
  - At an event inspired by this author, held annually in Clarence, North Carolina, Rena Walden meets George Tryon in Charles Chesnutt's The House Behind the Cedars. [PWR]
  - A wrecked steamboat in (*) Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is named after this author.
  - In Life on the Mississippi, Mark Twain said that this author was "in great measure responsible for" the Civil War, blaming the South's backwardness on this author's namesake disease.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose novels, wildly popular in the antebellum South, include Guy Mannering and Ivanhoe. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sir Walter Scott
  - In Aspects of the Novel, E.
  - M.
  - Forster deems this author a mediocre novelist yet a good storyteller, paraphrasing his book in which a man is able to pay off all his debts when a treasure chest is miraculously found on his property.
  - An astrologer foretells that the fifth, tenth, and twenty-first years of a newborn boy will be dangerous, at the start of a novel by this author that precedes The Antiquary in a twenty-seven book series.
  - In a book by this author that is often regarded as the first historical novel, the protagonist's visits to the hideout of the outlaw Donald Bean Lean and the hillside castle of Flora MacIvor inspire him to take up the Jacobite cause.
  - In a later novel by him that was billed as being "by the author of Waverley," the protagonist defeats a masked knight at a joust, then bestows the honor of "Queen of the Tournament" upon Lady Rowena.
  - For 10 points, name this Scottish novelist of Ivanhoe. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Walter Scott
  - Amusingly named characters from a novel by this author include Mrs. [PWR]
  - Nosebag, who pawns a central character's prized drinking cup, and Donald Bean Lean, whose daughter Alice is beloved by a young soldier.
  - The protagonist of a book by this writer is denied his family's estate- aside from the tower of Wolf's Crag- and falls in love with a woman whom he first meets when he kills a stray bull that was charging at her. [PWR]
  - His first novel proved so popular that his subsequent books were published under the pseudonym (*) "by the author of" his first novel. [PWR]
  - The title character of a book by this man stabs her husband on their wedding night, after which she descends into insanity.
  - For 10 points, name this writer who created Edgar of Ravenswood in The Bride of Lammermoor and who wrote Waverley . [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sir Walter Scott
  - This writer wrote a book in which a woman cross-dresses while traveling to Douglasdale with her minstrel Bertram so that she can live at the Convent of St.
  - Bride.
  - In that novel by this author, Lady Augusta promises to marry John de Walton if he can maintain the title castle for a year and a day.
  - In another of his novels, Rashleigh is cut out of his father's will, which causes him to steal some documents that besmirch Sir Frederick's name.
  - In another novel by this author of Castle Dangerous, the title character falls in love with Diana Vernon while staying with his uncle Sir Hildebrand.
  - That book tells of Frank Osbaldistone during the Jacobite Uprising.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Rob Roy whose Tales of My Landlord series includes Waverley. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sir Walter Scott
  - In one novel by this author, the protagonist's husband is murdered by his illegitimate son, known as "The Whistler", who is later killed by Indians in the Western U.S. [PWR]
  - In another of his novels, Donald Bean Lean deceives Colonel Gardner with a false report on the activities of the protagonist, letting him escape to France. [PWR]
  - In addition to that novel about Jeanie's attempts to get a pardon for her sister (*) Effie and one in which Edward gets involved in the Jacobite Rising, he wrote a novel in which Ulrica helps save the title character from the Bois-Guilbert.
  - The title character of that novel heeds the third call to defend Rebecca from being burned as a witch, allowing him to marry Rowena.
  - For 10 points, name this Scottish author of Waverley and Ivanhoe. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Sir Walter Scott
  - In one of this author's novels, the fiendish alchemist Demetrius Doboobie takes the name Dr.
  - Alasco and prepares a poison which is counteracted by an antidote provided by Wayland Smith.
  - This author's characteristic style was imitated by Alfred de Vigny in his novel Cinq-Mars.
  - He wrote a novel in which Anthony Foster dies in a gold room in Cumnor Place, which ends with Richard Varney tricking Amy Robsart into falling to her death.
  - This author used the pseudonym Jedediah Cleishbotham to write a novel whose first section depicts the storming of the Old Tolbooth prison.
  - The protagonist of that novel walks barefoot to London to plead for the life of her sister Effie.
  - His novel about the idealistic Jeanie Deans forms part of his series Tales of My Landlord.
  - For 10 points, name this author of historical romances such as Kenilworth and The Heart of Midlothian. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author inspired a regrettably iconic "cross-burning" scene in Thomas Dixon's racist novel The Clansman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Name this British author, who, according to Mark Twain, "had so large a hand in making Southern character... that he is in great measure responsible for the war."
  Part 2 (ans: The House Behind the Cedars):
    The protagonist of this 1900 novel, Rena Walden, is named for Ivanhoe's Lady Rowena. This Charles Chesnutt novel depicts Rena and her brother John's efforts to "pass" as white.
  Part 3 (ans: James Fenimore Cooper):
    Southern writer William Gilmore Simms was inspired by both Scott and this Northern writer, who himself drew heavily on Scott's historical novels. This author's Leatherstocking Tales include The Last of the Mohicans.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A notice from the "Chief of Ordinance" G.G. appears at the start of this novel warning readers of the various punishments for attempting to find a motive, moral, or plot in the narrative. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn):
    Name this novel which also contains an explanation of its early use of regional vernacular like the Pike-County and South-Western dialects.
  Part 2 (ans: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]):
    The opening lines of Huckleberry Finn warn that readers might have an advantage if they've read The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, which was made by this author, who "told the truth, mainly."
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Huck lies about his family being on a wrecked ship named after this author. This author, who Twain claimed was "in great measure responsible for the war," wrote a series that included the sub-series Tales of My Landlord.

[B3] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Thomas Carlyle described this author as the British exemplar of Gotzism, the opposite of Werterism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walter Scott):
    Name this author, whose recurring character Dryasdust ("dry-as-dust") is invoked in several Carlyle books. Carlyle called this author the "novel-wright of his time" for the popularity of works like The Heart of Midlothian.
  Part 2 (ans: antiquarian [or antiquary; prompt on historian]):
    In Scott's "dedicatory epistle" to Ivanhoe, the Reverend Jonas Dryasdust is an enthusiast of this vocation. This vocation of Brief Lives author John Aubrey titles a Waverley novel about the coin collector Jonathan Oldbuck.
  Part 3 (ans: Gurth's collar [or Gurth's gorget or neck-ring; prompt on ring]):
    In Past and Present, Carlyle praises this object from Ivanhoe and calls its owner happy in comparison to many modern men. The opening chapter describes the Saxon inscription on this brass object, which is destroyed after the swineherd Gurth aids Cedric's escape from Torquilstone.

[B4] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Because he became popular as a poet, this author chose to publish his novels anonymously, leading to his books being published as "by the author of Waverley." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walter Scott [or Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet]):
    Name this author of historical fiction novels like Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
  Part 2 (ans: Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron] (The poem is Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.)):
    According to the biographer J. G. Lockhart, Scott began a diary after reading this author's journal. Scott's popularity as a poet was eclipsed by this author's four-canto poem dedicated to "Ianthe" that follows a young man's travels around Europe.
  Part 3 (ans: James Hogg ):
    After Scott's death, an unauthorized biography was written by this friend of his. The devilish Gil-Martin convinces Robert Wringhim to murder people in this author's novel The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An 1801 novel by this author included an interracial marriage that was excised in later editions, possibly at the insistence of her father. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maria Edgeworth):
    Name this Anglo-Irish author of Belinda and the historical novel Castle Rackrent.
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Scott):
    Edgeworth influenced this fellow historical novelist and entered into a lengthy correspondence with him after the publication of his novel Waverley.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Purple Jar"):
    In this Edgeworth story, Rosamond uses the money earmarked for new shoes to buy the title object, but is disappointed when it turns out to be filled with a black liquid. Some critics read it as an allegory for the beginning of menstruation.

[B6] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Dorothy Scarborough's dissertation provided a "suggestive rather than exhaustive" review of this genre "in Modern English Fiction." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the supernatural [accept "The Supernatural in Modern English Fiction" or "The Supernatural in Fiction"; prompt on descriptive answers such as ghost stories or horror or scary fiction]):
    Virginia Woolf used Scarborough's dissertation as the starting point for an essay titled for what genre "in Fiction," which examines the "refined ... essence" of emotion experienced by readers?
  Part 2 (ans: Ann Radcliffe):
    Woolf's essay traces the popularity of supernatural fiction to this author of the Gothic novel The Mysteries of Udolpho, claiming that her novels "may vanish, but the craving for the supernatural survives."
  Part 3 (ans: Walter Scott {The second poem is Marmion.}):
    Woolf praises the "superb genius" of this author's ghost story "Wandering Willie's Tale" from the novel Redgauntlet. This author recalled being "bewitched" by "strange" tales as a child in a passage from a book length poem about a battle that ends after Ralph De Wilton marries Clara de Clare.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the Scottish child prodigy Marjorie Fleming, who wrote many poems and diaries before dying at age 8.
  Part 1 (ans: Maria Edgeworth):
    In her diary, Marjorie wrote that this author's "tails [sic] are very good." This author of the children's story "The Purple Jar" wrote about the mismanagement of the title Anglo-Irish estate in Castle Rackrent.
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Scott [or Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet] (The unnamed novel is Waverley, which Scott allegedly wrote while he was with Fleming.)):
    Marjorie Fleming's biographer, John Brown, claims that Marjorie Fleming was the protegee of this author. This author of Guy Mannering wrote a novel subtitled 'Tis Sixty Years Since about the officer Edward.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Louis Stevenson [or Robert Lewis Balfour Stevenson]):
    This author called Marjorie Fleming "one of the noblest works of God." He anthologized poems for young readers in A Child's Garden of Verses, and wrote about the cabin boy Jim in Treasure Island.

[B8] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's son, the Whistler, was sold by Meg Murdockson to a woman who in turn sold him to Donacha Dhu. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Effie Deans [accept Lady Staunton; prompt on Deans]):
    Name this character in The Heart of Midlothian who is falsely accused of murdering that son. This character's sister Jeanie attempts to seek a pardon for her from Queen Caroline.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    The Heart of Midlothian is one of the Waverley Novels by this author. The title knight marries Lady Rowena in this author's novel Ivanhoe.
  Part 3 (ans: Rebecca [accept Rebecca de Winter]):
    Ivanhoe defends a Jewish character with this name from being burned as a witch by Brian de Bois-Guilbert. In a book by another author, the housekeeper Mrs. Danvers is obsessed with a character with this first name.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet is the primary target of John Gibson Lockhart's "On the Cockney School of Poetry," which manages, at its kindest, to say that this poet's The Story of Rimini is "not wholly undeserving of praise." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leigh Hunt [or James Gordon Leigh Hunt]):
    Name this poet and leader of the Cockney School. In another poem, he wrote that although "health and wealth have missed me" it was okay, because "Jenny kiss'd me."
  Part 2 (ans: George Gordon, Lord Byron [accept either]):
    Lockhart is appalled that Hunt insulted this poet by dedicating The Story of Rimini to him. In another poem, he wrote that "all that's best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes."
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Lockhart's attacks may not have been entirely his own, as this man, his father-in-law, was possibly involved. This author wrote Ivanhoe and Rob Roy.

[B10] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In Life on the Mississippi, Mark Twain blamed the influence of this author's novels for the "pathetic" "architectural falsehood" of the Louisiana State Capitol's medieval-revival design. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Name this author who Twain also accused of doing "more real and lasting harm, perhaps, than any other individual that ever wrote" by creating a mythical version of chivalry in his historical novels that helped contribute to the outbreak of the Civil War.
  Part 2 (ans: Hugh Trevor-Roper):
    In an essay on Scotland published in The Invention of Tradition, this Oxford historian and rival of A. J. P. Taylor accuses Scott of fabricating many elements of modern Scottish nationalism, including wearing kilts and playing bagpipes.
  Part 3 (ans: Napoleon I Bonaparte [accept Life of Napoleon Buonaparte]):
    In order to write a biography of this leader, Sir Walter Scott was granted unique access to archives relating to his imprisonment on St. Helena and did research by conversing with veterans of the Battle of Waterloo, at which this leader was defeated.

[B11] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The British travel writer George Borrow often wrote about these people, including in his novel Lavengro. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Romani people [accept gypsies]):
    Name these people. In an episode from The Mill on the Floss, Maggie runs away after pushing Lucy Deane in the mud, and is taken home by one of these people.
  Part 2 (ans: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling):
    The narrator of this Henry Fielding novel digressively praises the institution of monarchy at the end of a chapter in which the title foundling and his traveling companion Partridge encounter a Roma wedding.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    The Romani are referred to as "Bohemians" in this author's novel Quentin Durward, and they also make an appearance in his Guy Mannering.

[B12] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: A 1935 lecture claimed that the sentence "I feel his pain" and a made-up word like "abracadabra" are both examples of this concept. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: nonsense [or senselessness]):
    Name this concept. A 1981 paper by Cora Diamond on "What [this] Might Be" argues against the "natural view" that would treat the sentence "Caesar as a prime number" as a category error.
  Part 2 (ans: Ludwig Wittgenstein [the lecture in the leadin was also by Wittgenstein]):
    Diamond says the "Most Plausible View of Nonsense" is expressed by Frege and this philosopher, who also discussed nonsense in his Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Walter Scott [prompt on the author of Waverley]):
    Diamond cites "[This man] kept a runcible at Abbotsford" as an example of another "nonsense" sentence. An anecdote about George IV wishing to know if this man is the author of a certain novel appears in the essay "On Denoting."

[B13] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of a novel invents a story about his family to get a ferryman to investigate a wrecked steamboat named for this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Walter Scott):
    Name this author whom Mark Twain claimed set "the world in love with dreams and phantoms" and "had so large a hand in making Southern character . . . that he is in great measure responsible for the [Civil War]."
  Part 2 (ans: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn [accept Huck Finn]):
    The wreck of the Walter Scott is a set piece in this Mark Twain novel, whose narrator travels on a raft with the escaped slave Jim.
  Part 3 (ans: Emmeline Grangerford [or Emmeline; accept answers mentioning or describing the deceased daughter of the Grangerford family; prompt on "Grangerford"; prompt on answers involving or describing a "daughter of one of the feuding families" by asking for the family name]):
    Twain's assault on Romanticism continues in the next section of the novel, in which Huck looks at crayon pictures with titles like "And Art Thou Gone Yes Thou Art Gone Alas" by this unseen character. A description is acceptable.

[B14] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about short story collections with absolutely nothing in common, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Walter Scott):
    This author's stories such as "The Highland Widow" are collected in his Chronicles of the Canongate. However, he's better known for novels like The Heart of Midlothian, Rob Roy, and Ivanhoe.
  Part 2 (ans: Irvine Welsh):
    This author's short story collections include The Acid House. He also chronicled the adventures of Mark Renton and his heroin-abusing friends in the collection Trainspotting.
  Part 3 (ans: Nathan Englander):
    This author received a Pulitzer Prize nomination for his collection What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank. He previously wrote about a man who gets rabbinical dispensation to see a prostitute in the title story of his collection For the Relief of Unbearable Urges.

[B15] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Whenever this writer presented historical background information in his novels, he would humorously attribute it to the scholar "Dryasdust." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Name this author who wrote about the Jacobite rebellion in Waverley and about a knight who marries Rowena and fights for King Richard the Lionheart in Ivanhoe.
  Part 2 (ans: Rob Roy):
    In this novel by Scott, the disinherited Frank Osbaldistone goes to Scotland to track down Rashleigh. The title Highlander disguises himself as the cattle dealer Campbell and dies saving Frank and his love Diana.
  Part 3 (ans: Tales of My Landlord):
    This subseries of Scott's Waverley novels include The Heart of Midlothian and The Bride of Lammermoor. It begins with The Black Dwarf, whose introduction claims this collection was edited by Jedediah Cleishbotham.

[B16] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In Life on the Mississippi, Mark Twain charges this author with doing "more real and lasting harm, perhaps, than any other individual that ever wrote," by regressing the South into a "Middle-Age sham civilization." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Name this author who inspired a spate of chivalric furor in the South with his novel Ivanhoe.
  Part 2 (ans: The House Behind the Cedars):
    George Tryon wins a jousting tournament in South Carolina and proclaims Rowena, or Rena, Walden to be his "queen of love and beauty" in this Charles Chesnutt novel, in which he calls off their engagement upon finding out that she is part black.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Dixon, Jr.):
    The obsession didn't end after the South lost the war. In the 1900s, this author wrote a series of Scott-inspired romances about the Ku Klux Klan, including The Clansman, which D.W. Griffith adapted as the film The Birth of a Nation.

[B17] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This is the surname of Sir Mungo, a character from the novel The Fortunes of Nigel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Malagrowther):
    Identify the surname of Malachi, a pseudonym used for a series of letters supporting the right of Scottish banks to issue their own banknotes.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    The Letters of Malachi Malagrowther are by this 19th-century author, who sparked a Medieval revival with a novel about a knight who defeats Brian Bois-Guilbert at a tournament and wins the hand of Lady Rowena.
  Part 3 (ans: Tales of My Landlord [prompt on "Waverley novels"]):
    Another humorously-named Walter Scott character is Jedediah Cleishbotham, the purported anthologizer of this series of Scott novels, which include Old Mortality and The Heart of Midlothian.

[B18] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A scene in this poem in which Roderick Dhu lights a burning cross inspired the Ku Klux Klan's practice of doing the same. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Lady of the Lake):
    Name this narrative poem, which includes a celebrated scene in which Ellen Douglas sings an Ave Maria. It helped to spark the 19th-century Highland Revival.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    The Lady of the Lake is by this Scottish poet of The Lay of the Last Minstrel, who may be better known for such novels as Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
  Part 3 (ans: Felicia Dorothea Hemans):
    This other Georgian-era poet used two lines from Scott's Marmion as the epigraph for a poem that begins: "The stately homes of England / How beautiful they stand / Amidst their tall ancestral trees / O'er the pleasant land".

[B19] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about George IV's 1822 visit to Scotland.
  Part 1 (ans: Charles II):
    George IV was the first reigning British monarch to visit Scotland since this Stuart monarch, who was crowned at Scone nine years before he was able to take up the thrones of England and Ireland.
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Scott):
    The tartan-heavy pageantry of George's visit to Scotland was overseen by this author, who was later revealed as the author of the Waverly novels.
  Part 3 (ans: David Wilkie):
    A portrait of George wearing his Highland regalia was painted at the time of his visit by this Scottish painter, who would later become Principal Painter in Ordinary.

[B20] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This essay begins with the author describing how he assisted the escape of a spider in his study, before claiming that without the title activity, "we should lose the very spring of thought and action." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "On the Pleasure of Hating"):
    Name this 1823 essay, a paean to an activity that "eats into the heart of religion, and turns it into ranking spleen and big-otry." The author concludes by saying that he does it to himself for not having done it to the world enough.
  Part 2 (ans: Elia [prompt on Charles Lamb]):
    In "On the Pleasure of Hating," William Hazlitt praises this fctional character's Epistle to Robert Southey for describing an ornery "set of whist-players." This character, a persona created by its author, is the ostensible narrator of "Christ's Hospital Five-And-Thirty Years Ago" and "The South-Sea House."
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet):
    Hazlitt surmises that the success of this author's novels, like Rob Roy, owes to their ability to transport readers back to a time when feuds were common and people hated each other a lot.

[B21] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some British historical novelists, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    The first major British historical novelist was this author of Rob Roy and Ivanhoe. Like Manzoni, he wrote a novel called The Betrothed.
  Part 2 (ans: Hilary Mantel):
    This author won the 2012 Booker Prize for her novel Bring Up the Bodies, the second novel in her trilogy about Thomas Cromwell.
  Part 3 (ans: Cecil Scott Forester):
    This author is famous for his nautical adventure tales, including The African Queen and the Horatio Hornblower series.

[B22] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: It begins before the Jacobite Uprisings of 1715 and concludes after much bloodshed, which allows Frank Osbaldistone to marry Diana Vernon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rob Roy):
    Name this historical novel that interpolates stories about the title outlaw into its narrative.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Rob Roy was written by this Scottish author of politically charged historical romances.
  Part 3 (ans: Tales of My Landlord):
    Some of Scott's best prose includes Old Mortality and Castle Dangerous, which forms this grouping of four series of novels from the Waverly series. It takes its name from a fictional personage who collected them before they were compiled and sent to Jedidiah Cleishbotham, the title figure.

[B23] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about Ivanhoe.
  Part 1 (ans: Desdichado):
    The title character of Ivanhoe, known only as "the Disinherited Knight" at the tournament, has this Spanish word upon his shield.
  Part 2 (ans: Cedric):
    Ivanhoe is disinherited by this father of his, who is nicknamed "the Saxon." This name was accidentally invented by switching two of the consonants in a Saxon name.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Ivanhoe was written by this novelist, who wrote about Henry Morton in Old Mortality.

[B24] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Rashleigh absconds with his family's assets in order to ruin the economy of the Scottish highlands and inspire them to revolt against England. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rob Roy):
    Name this questionably-plotted novel, in which Frank Osbaldistone tries to recover those assets during the Highland Rising of 1715.
  Part 2 (ans: Walter Scott):
    This author of Ivanhoe and Waverley wrote Rob Roy.
  Part 3 (ans: The Heart of Midlothian):
    This Scott novel opens with a description of the Porteous Riots and focuses on the wrongly-imprisoned Effie Dean, who is ultimately pardoned by Queen Caroline.

[B25] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's characters include Patrick O'Shaughlin, whose body is seized by creditors during his funeral. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Castle Rackrent):
    Name this Big House novel published in 1800, a satire of Anglo-Irish landlords narrated by Thady Quirk.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bowen):
    This Irish author wrote the Big House novel The Last September. She fictionalized London during World War II in The Heat of the Day and wrote about the orphan Portia Quayne in The Death of the Heart.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Walter Scott):
    Castle Rackrent served as a model for this Scottish author's first historical novel, Waverley. He also wrote Kenilworth and Rob Roy.
