=== STOCK CLUES: Unamuno ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 40 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Unamuno ("OOH-nuh-moo-noh") y Jugo
  - In a 1935 prologue, this author claimed that "[intriguing] the critics" was the motivation to coin a term for books that this author analogized to "basilicas" that make themselves.
  - This author categorized the more spontaneous writing of his late works as "viviparous," in contrast to "oviparous" ones.
  - For one novel, this author personally signed a "post-prologue" that criticizes a prologue by the fictional author Victor Goti.
  - This author of the Cervantes-inspired Three Exemplary Novels used a funeral oration given by the dog Orfeo to end an existential 1914 novel in which this author meets with the protagonist Augusto Perez.
  - This author described how the title painter is envied by the doctor Joaquin in a Biblically-inspired book grouped with this author's "nivolas." For 10 points, name this Spanish author of Niebla and Abel Sanchez. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Unamuno
  - In response to Goethe's dying words of "Light, light, more light!", this author wrote "No, warmth, warmth, more warmth! for we die of cold and not of darkness." On his deathbed, the protagonist of one of this author's works declares that the reason his wife Antonia couldn't cure him of his obsessive envy was because he didn't love her.
  - Lazarus reveals to his sister Angela that the title priest is a non-believer but uses religion to spread virtue in his village in a novella by this author.
  - This author reformulated Descartes's cogito, ergo sum as sum, ergo cogito in a treatise containing the chapter "Don Quixote in the Contemporary European Tragi-Comedy." The doctor Joaquin kills his brother, the title character, in this author's retelling of the Cain and Abel story.
  - For 10 points, name this early 20th-century Spanish author of Saint Manuel the Good, Martyr, The Tragic Sense of Life, and Abel Sanchez. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: the author [accept clear equivalents; accept the following authors: Alejandro Zambra, Philip K. Dick, W. Somerset Maugham, Kurt Vonnegut, Miguel de Unamuno; prompt on "the narrator"]
  - A section of Alejandro Zambra's Multiple Choice ends with the son of Manuel Contreras complaining about this person.
  - In VALIS, this person temporarily combines with Horselover Fat when a two-year-old girl points out that they're actually the same person. [PWR]
  - In another novel, this person manages to get Templeton invited to Princess Novemali's ball, but Templeton is on his deathbed and declines the invitation due to "a previous engagement with his Blessed Lord." In Breakfast of Champions, this person stares at the waitress (*) Bonnie MacMahon in a cocktail lounge, and is later unexpectedly attacked by the dog Kazak. [PWR]
  - This person tells Augusto that he can't commit suicide, and then possibly kills him, at the end of Niebla by Miguel de Unamuno.
  - For 10 points, name these people who often insert themselves into works of meta-fiction. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Answer: Miguel da Unamuno
  - This philosopher once explained his purpose by stating his unBEARable "duty is to ... sow the seeds of distrust, of disquiet, and even despair" in men. [PWR]
  - The desire to "reconcile intellectual needs with affective and volitive needs" constituted this philosopher's major problem with philosophy according to his essay "The Rationalist Dissolution," which argues humanity inherently has a need to guard the dead. [PWR]
  - This philosopher claimed that the primary quest of philosophy is "the hunger for God" and to realize that "God does not merely exist, but "superexists" in the essay "At the (*) Bottom of the Abyss; that essay appears in a book by this philosopher which concludes by comparing man's suffering to the struggles of Don Quixote, and opens by stating humanity's "deepest urge for immortality" constitutes the title feeling. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Spanish author of The Tragic Sense of Life, who is also known for his novelistic output. [GIVE]

[T5] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Kingdom of Spain [the first novel is Miguel de Unamuno's Mist; the other works are some of Cervantes' Novelas ejemplares]
  - A novel from this country includes a "post-prologue" by the author that disagrees with the prologue written by the character Victor Goti; that novel from this country ends with a funeral oration by the dog Orfeo.
  - In another work from this country, the protagonist of "The Deceitful Wedding" overhears the title "Colloquy of the (*) Dogs." The title character of a novel from this country thinks his brain is melting after putting a barber's basin full of curds on his head, thinking it was the helmet of Mambrino. [PWR]
  - Near the beginning of that novel from this country, a priest and a barber burn the title character's books, after which he attacks some windmills.
  - For 10 points, name this country home to Miguel de Cervantes, who wrote Don Quixote. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Unamuno
  - In one of this author's novels, Apolodoro commits suicide after being raised on scientific principles by his positivist father Avito.
  - In one of his short stories, a physician loses all his patients because he is too busy compiling the science fiction anthology All or Nothing.
  - Another of his novels begins with a prologue by the fictional author Victor Goti.
  - This author of Love and Pedagogy and the short story "The Madness of Dr.
  - Montarco" wrote a novel that takes place in Valverde de Lucerna, where Lazarus exposes the title character's atheism to Angela.
  - He inserted himself into one of his nivolas, in which he is confronted by his character Augusto.
  - One of his title characters arouses the jealousy of Joaquin Monegro, who identifies with Lord Byron's Cain.
  - For 10 points, name this member of Spain's Generation of '98, the author of San Manuel Bueno, Martir, Mist, and Abel Sanchez. [GIVE]

[T7] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo
  - One novella by this author takes place in Valverde de Lucerna, a town on a lake which is said to hide a submerged city. [PWR]
  - He wrote a poetic work called The Christ of Velazquez. [PWR]
  - He created a doctor whose need to dominate others is reflected in the stories he writes in "The Madness of Doctor Montarco." That story is sometimes paired with a work in which the title priest loses his (*) faith but does not tell his parishioners, San Manuel the Good, Martyr. [PWR]
  - He wrote a novel inspired by the Cain and Abel story about Joaquin Monegro's jealousy of the title artist, Abel Sanchez.
  - This author also wrote a "nivola" in which Augusto confronts him, the author, and either commits suicide or is killed by the author.
  - For 10 points, name this Spanish author of "The Tragic Sense of Life" and Mist. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Miguel de Unamuno
  - In one essay, this author compared "The Eternal Tradition" to the invisible depths of the sea, wherein normal history only accounts for the activities of the water's surface.
  - He described an "opening inwards" that could be achieved through seclusion and introspection, as seen in his chess playing protagonist who spends several months in an isolated seaside town in Don Sandalio.
  - In one of his novels, Lazarus, the brother of Angela, discovers that the local (*) priest actually has no faith in Christ, while in another of his novels, Eugenia's rejection of Augusto leads Augusto to attempt suicide, though Augusto is warned by the author that he is a fictional character and has no control over his life. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of Mist and Abel Sanchez, a member of the Generation of '98. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In her essay collection The Burning Question, an author compared this literary movement to Romanticism, since both movements were met with initial hesitancy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: naturalism):
    Name this literary movement associated with the Spanish author of The House of Ulloa("ool-YO-a"), Emilia Pardo Bazan. Emile Zola was the main exponent of this offshoot of realism.
  Part 2 (ans: suicide [accept obvious equivalents] (the latter novel is Unamuno's Niebla.)):
    The narrator of a Pardo Bazan story titled for this action shoots his lover's portrait in the eyes after realizing she cheated on him. In a novel by another writer, Augusto visits the author of the work to debate if it's possible for him to do this action.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Juan [or Don John or Don Giovanni]):
    Pardo Bazan also wrote a story titled for this character's "last illusion". This legendary seducer gets dragged to hell by a stone statue at the end of a play by Tirso de Molina.

[B2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Historians dispute if an episode where this writer got into an argument with the commander of the Spanish Legion and left with Franco's wife after getting heckled actually happened. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Name this liberal author of the novels Niebla ("NYEB-la") and San Manuel Bueno, martir (san man-WELL BWEH-noh MARR-teer") who was placed in house arrest by Franco at the end of his life despite earlier supporting his rebellion.
  Part 2 (ans: The Island [or Primera memoria]):
    This novel by Ana Maria Matute ("ma-TOO-teh") describes Matia living with his abuelita ("ab-well-EE-ta") in Mallorca (ma-YORK-uh") during the Spanish Civil War. Matute won the Premio Nadal for this first novel of the Los Mercaderes trilogy.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra [accept Miguel de Cervantes Prize]):
    Matute was the third woman to win the Spanish language literary prize named after this author of Don Quixote ("don kee-HOE-tay").

[B3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a sequel to this novel, a dog who licked the tears off "the doctor's wife" is named Constant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blindness [or Essay on Blindness; or Ensaio sobre a cegueira]):
    Name this Jose Saramago novel, in which "the doctor's wife" is unaffected by the title condition, while an ophthalmologist and several of his patients are.
  Part 2 (ans: Cain (The Unamuno novel is Abel Sanchez)):
    The final manuscript Saramago wrote and submitted was named for this character. Joaquin Monegro is a parallel of this character and hates an artist surnamed Sanchez in a novel by Miguel Unamuno.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Pessoa):
    In another Saramago novel, this author's death prompts his heteronym, Ricardo Reis, to return to Portugal. This author of several odes about Ricardo Reis wrote The Book of Disquiet.

[B4] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: While chained and wearing animal skins, this character delivers a soliloquy lamenting that the greatest sin of humans is "having been born." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Segismundo [or Prince Sigismund] (from Pedro Calderon de la Barca's Life is a Dream)):
    Name this character. In a play whose themes are often compared to Cartesian skepticism, this character is locked in a tower after a horoscope at his birth indicates that he will grow up to be a tyrant.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno [prompt on the author]):
    In the novel Mist, Augusto decides on the maxim "I eat, therefore I am" after a depressing meeting with this character. Augusto goes to meet this character after reading his article on suicide.
  Part 3 (ans: Dulcinea del Toboso):
    Steven Nadler suggests that Descartes may have read Don Quixote, whose protagonist's delusions include bestowing this name on his love interest, the simple peasant girl Aldonza Lorenzo.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was credited with popularizing a folktale in which a cunning turtle feeds a monkey's corpse to its friends before tricking them all into drowning. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jose Rizal [or Jose Protasio Rizal Mercado y Alonso Realonda] (The folktale is "The Monkey and the Turtle" and the novel is Noli Me Tangere.)):
    Name this author who wrote El filibusterismo as a sequel to his novel in which Maria Clara chooses to become a nun after the death of the mestizo Crisostomo Ibarra.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote (The Unamuno essay is "Rizal: The Tagalog Hamlet." Joaquin's pen name was "Quijano de Manila.")):
    Nick Joaquin, a Filipino author who wrote about Rizal, used a pen name inspired by this character. An essay by Miguel de Unamuno claims that Rizal is an Oriental version of this gentleman of La Mancha created by Cervantes.
  Part 3 (ans: firing squad [prompt on execution; prompt on getting shot]):
    Rizal wrote the poem "Mi ultimo adios," or "My Last Farewell," before dying in this manner. One Hundred Years of Solitude opens with Colonel Aureliano Buendia facing death in this manner.

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A line about this concept is written on a postcard before the line "A healthy atmosphere stinks of stupidity!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: optimism [accept "Optimism is the opium of the people!" or "Optimismus je opium lidstva!"]):
    Name this concept that Ludvik writes is "the opium of the people," leading him to be interrogated by the authorities, in Milan Kundera's novel The Joke.
  Part 2 (ans: Karl Marx [or Karl Heinrich Marx]):
    The original quote, "Religion is the opium of the people," was written by this thinker who reused ideas from his absurdist novel Scorpion and Felix in the essay "The Eighteenth Brumaire of Louis-Napoleon."
  Part 3 (ans: Don Manuel [or Don Emmanuel; or Saint Manuel; or Saint Emmanuel; accept San Manuel Bueno, martir or Saint Manuel the Good, Martyr or Saint Emmanuel the Good, Martyr] (He is the title character of San Manuel Bueno, martir by Miguel de Unamuno.)):
    This character from a 1931 "nivola" agrees with Marx's statement, telling his pupil Lazaro "Let us give them opium so that they can sleep and dream." Angela discovers that this priest doesn't believe in God.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author of this ethnicity wrote a 1988 story collection about the "individuals and things" of an "interior landscape," titled Obabakoak. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Basque [or Euskara]):
    Name this ethnicity, whose literary form was established in the late 1800s in short prose pieces by the Arana brothers. In an epic poem, Ganelon betrays his army in a battle against soldiers of this ethnicity.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    Txillardegi (chee-ARK-deg-ee), who wrote the first Basque novel, was much inspired by this Basque-born Spanish-language author of the Generation of '98, whose "nivolas" include Niebla and Abel Sanchez.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War):
    The development of Basque literature almost ceased for two decades after this war. In Sartre's 1939 story The Wall, Ramon Gris is accidentally betrayed by Pablo Ibbieta during this war, and ends up shot by Nationalists.

[B8] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel decides to kill himself after Eugenia jilts him for Mauricio and sees life as a set of events meant to distract him from his ultimate purpose. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mist [or Fog; accept Niebla] (by Miguel de Unamuno)):
    Name this novel whose protagonist is told by its author that he cannot die because he is a fictional character, only to die mysteriously shortly afterward.
  Part 2 (ans: Ireland [or Eire] (the authors are Flann O'Brien and Samuel Beckett)):
    The fictional author Dermot Trellis is put on trial by his characters in At Swim-Two-Birds, a novel from this country. A different author born in this country wrote the novel Molloy and the play Waiting for Godot.
  Part 3 (ans: Charlie Brown [or CB; accept any underlined portion]):
    This character receives a letter from his "Pen Pal," who is also his creator, at the end of Bert Royal's 2004 play Dog Sees God. In that letter, this character learns that his deceased gay lover Beethoven plays the piano for this character's dead dog in the afterlife.

[B9] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel, this character is doomed to live alone on Earth after killing all the humans on Noah's Ark. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cain):
    Name this character. In another author's work subtitled The History of a Passion, the protagonist Joaquin Sanchez is based on the story of this character.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    This author wrote Abel Sanchez: The History of a Passion. This Spanish member of the Generation of '98 wrote the philosophical essay The Tragic Sense of Life, and coined the term nivola for their short work Mist.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    Cain is the final novel by this author. This Portuguese author also wrote the novel Blindness.

[B10] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character receives a set of gilded pistols as a wedding gift from a friend who delivers a passionate speech at a banquet about this character's painting of a biblical scene. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abel Sanchez [accept either underlined name]):
    Name this artist whose marriage to Elena escalates Joaquin ("hwah-KEEN") Montegro's hatred of him. Joaquin confesses his guilt on his deathbed about grabbing this character's throat, which triggers a fatal heart attack.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    This member of the Spanish Generation of '98 referred to his book Abel Sanchez: The History of a Passion as a "nivola." He also wrote The Tragic Sense of Life and Mist.
  Part 3 (ans: Cuba):
    Unamuno frequently corresponded with Jose Marti, a national hero of this country. The Generation of '98 were active during the Spanish-American War, which grew out of this country's fight for independence from Spain.

[B11] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's quote "If they give you ruled paper, write the other way" serves as the epigraph to Fahrenheit 451. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juan Ramon Jimenez Mantecon):
    Identify this winner of the 1956 Nobel Prize in Literature who compared the title donkey to "steel and moon silver" in his prose poem "Platero y yo"
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Jimenez is from the same country as this author of the "nivola" Mist, published in 1914. A more famous work by this author describes Joaquin and Abel Sanchez, two feuding brothers.
  Part 3 (ans: Federico Garcia Lorca [prompt on Garcia]):
    Unamuno was part of the Spanish Generation of '98 along with Antonio Machado, who described the murder of this Generation of '27 poet in "The Crime Was in Granada." This poet wrote Gypsy Ballads.

[B12] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author coined a nonsense label to differentiate his novels from the realist literature being produced by his country at the time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Name this author who first used that term to describe a novel in which he inserted himself into a conversation with the suicidal Augusto Perez, whose eventual death is eulogized by his dog Orfeo.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Quixote de la Mancha [or Alonso Quijano]):
    In Unamuno's Mist, Augusto claims this character overshadowed the author that created him. The author included his novel La Galatea among the books in this character's library, which is burned by a priest and barber.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra):
    Unamuno's Mist, Three Exemplary Novels, and essay "Our Lord Don Quixote" are among his many works responding to this Spanish author who created Don Quixote.

[B13] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One work by this author states that "every man who has suffered misfortunes prefers to be himself, even with his misfortunes, than to be someone else without them." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Name this Spanish author who included pieces like "The Man of Flesh and Bone" and "In the Depths of the Abyss" in his essay collection The Tragic Sense of Life.
  Part 2 (ans: the author [or Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo; or Kurt Vonnegut; accept descriptions such as himself]):
    In Unamuno's novel Mist, the character Augusto is rejected by Eugenia and before killing himself, decides to consult this type of character, who tells him that he can't die since he isn't real. This type of character also notably makes an appearance in Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five.
  Part 3 (ans: dog [or perro]):
    After the author kills him off, Augusto's funeral oration is given by one of these creatures. The high-born Diana's love for her secretary Teodoro titles a Lope de Vega play named for one of these animals "in the Manger."

[B14] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the Generation of '98:
  Part 1 (ans: Azorin [or Jose Martinez Ruiz]):
    The name Generation of '98 was coined by this novelist, essayist and critic, who analysed concrete aspects of the Spanish reality in Castilla. This author's essays are written in a simple, compact style, while his novels include impressionistic descriptions of Castilian towns and landscape.
  Part 2 (ans: Pio Baroja):
    This Basque writer's output is characterised by a pessimistic and picaresque style, as in The Tree of Knowledge, a Nietzschean Bildungsroman that depicts the futility of the pursuit of knowledge and of life in general.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    This author imagined Augusto's love for Eugenia before debating committing suicide with this man in his novel Mist. He also updated the Biblical story of Cain and Abel to a doctor and a painter in Abel Sanchez.

[B15] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In Chapter 2 of Hermann Hesse's Demian, the title character explains to Emil Sinclair an alternate interpretation of this tale, after they attend a school lecture on it. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Cain and Abel [accept names in either order; accept Cain's Curse; the Mark of Cain; and obvious equivalents to those two; prompt on Book of Genesis]):
    Name this Biblical tale. In another novel, several characters discuss the meaning of the word "timshel" in this tale.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    This Portuguese author's final novel is narrated by the biblical Cain. He is better known for a novel in which the doctor's wife is unaffected by an epidemic of blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    This member of the Spanish Generation of '98 adapted the Cain and Abel story into a novel called Abel Sanchez. He argued that "reason is the enemy of life" in his philosophical masterpiece, The Tragic Sense of Life.

[B16] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote of man's reluctance to lose his ego and achieve apocatastasis or unification with God in his philosophical treatise, The Tragic Sense of Life in Men and in Peoples. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Identify this Spanish author of Basque ancestry who wrote Love and Pedagogy and Abel Sanchez.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Madness of Dr. Montarco"):
    At the end of this story by Unamuno, Dr. Atienza describes how the title character likes to put on a wig and pretend he is Privy Counsellor Herr Schmarotzender. Its title character alienates his patients by writing fiction.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Quixote [or The Ingenious Gentleman Don Quixote of La Mancha]):
    While in an insane asylum, Dr. Montarco obsesses over a section from Chapter 32 of the second part of this novel where the title character responds to one of his critics. Pierre Menard translates this text by re-creating it line-for-line in a Borges story.

[B17] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote a novella in which Julia Yanez's dad tries to sell her to pay off debt, entitled Nothing Less Than a Man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    Name this Spanish author who told of the love affair between Augusto and Eugenia in Niebla, a novel whose title can be translated as Mist.
  Part 2 (ans: Generation of 1898 [or la Generacion de noventa y ocho]):
    Unamuno was part of this group of Spanish writers, who wrote morose books in reaction to their country's recent loss to America in war.
  Part 3 (ans: Cain and Abel):
    In a 1917 novel, Unamuno updated the Biblical story of these two people to a doctor and a painter from the Sanchez family. Their dynamic is also echoed by Caleb and Aron Trask in Steinbeck's East of Eden.

[B18] 2014 CLEAR (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this story is accused of killing his first wife and, upon learning that his second wife had an affair with Count de Bordaviella, has her committed to an asylum, because no woman could deceive him. F10PE:
  Part 1 (ans: "Nothing Less Than a Man" [or "Nada Menos Que Todo Un Hombre"]):
    Name this story, in which Julia weds Alejandro Gomez, after the latter provides her father with the money to pay off his debts, but worries that her husband does not love her, until he finally tells her so just before her death.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    "Nothing Less Than a Man" is the final and longest section of Three Exemplary Novels and a Prologue by this author, who also wrote about the holy, but atheistic priest San Emmanuel, as well as the novel Mist.
  Part 3 (ans: Doctor):
    De Unamuno wrote about several characters with this profession, including Montarco, who goes insane when he cannot write his fantasy stories, and Joaquin Monegro, who envies and eventually kills the painter Abel Sanchez.

[B19] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Angela, the narrator of this work, explains that her mother's dying wish was for her non-believing brother, Lazarus, to pray. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: San Manuel Bueno, martir [or Saint Manuel the Good, Martyr]):
    Name this work in which the title character pretends to be a devout Catholic in order to help his village. The title character becomes depressed and dies from his moral struggle, which his village sees as evidence of holiness.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Name the author of The Tragic Sense of Life and Niebla as well as San Manuel Bueno, martir.
  Part 3 (ans: Spain):
    Unamuno was a member of the Generation of '98 from this country that also produced a Generation of '27 including Rafael Alberti and Garcia Lorca.

[B20] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this work is compelled to read Lord Byron's after another begins a painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abel Sanchez):
    Identify this novel whose central character becomes a physician and gives a celebrated banquet speech in honor of his childhood friend, whose death he later triggers in an argument over their mutual grandson.
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo):
    Abel Sanchez was written by this major figure of the Generation of '98, the author of the nivola Niebla, or Mist.
  Part 3 (ans: Kingdom of Spain [or Espana]):
    Miguel de Unamuno was an author from this country whose other literary icons include Federico Garcia Lorca.

[B21] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This work opens with the claim that the concrete "man of flesh and bone" is the subject of all philosophy, and argues that all theories of the soul's substantiality spring from a desire for immortality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Tragic Sense of Life [or Del Sentimiento Tragico de la Vida]):
    Identify this work which defines its title feeling as "something... which carries with it a whole conception... of the universe."
  Part 2 (ans: Miguel de Unamuno):
    The Tragic Sense of Life is a major philosophical work by this Spanish philosopher.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Quixote):
    The closing chapter of The Tragic Sense of Life claims that this figure became immortal by becoming ridiculous, and that this figure exemplifies the conflict between what scientific reason shows the world to be, and what religious faith affirms it to be.
