=== STOCK CLUES: Thomas Gray ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 40 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - In one poem, this author contrasted how "To warm their little loves the birds complain" and "the smiling Mornings shine" with his mourning.
  - The speaker of a poem by this author describes the possibility of "Hands, that the rod of empire might have sway'd" and "Some heart once pregnant with celestial fire." This author wrote "I...weep the more because I weep in vain" in a poem "On the Death of Richard West." The speaker of a poem by this author claims, "The paths of glory lead but to the grave." A poem by this author, which includes an epitaph to "A youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown," opens, "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name this author of "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard." [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - The preface to Lyrical Ballads singles out this poet for attempting to widen the space "betwixt prose and metrical composition." Welsh harp music inspired an ode by this poet in which Edward I is cursed by a bard while marching through Snowdonia. [PWR]
  - William Blake's illustrations for a poem by this author depict two fish as winged, angelic beings.
  - The speaker of a poem by this author imagines a "heart once pregnant with (*) celestial fire" and claims "full many a flower is born to blush unseen." This poet wrote an over-the-top eulogy for Horace Walpole's drowned cat. [PWR]
  - A poem by this author that muses on the possibility of "some mute inglorious Milton" opens "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name this poet of "Elegy Written In a Country Churchyard." [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - An ode by this author imagines that "beside some water's rushy brink / With me the Muse shall sit"; that ode by this poet concludes "Thy sun is set, thy spring is gone - / We frolic, while 'tis May." In a Pindaric ode that is considered an early work of the Celtic Revival, this author wrote about a poet who curses Edward I as his army marches through Snowdonia.
  - This author of "Ode on the Spring" and "The Bard" wrote a Horatian ode that opens by describing a "watery glade" crowned by "distant spires" and "antique towers." That ode by this poet, which declares "where ignorance is bliss, / 'Tis folly to be wise," is about an institution on the "hoary Thames ." For 10 points, name this poet of "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" and "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard." [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - This poet posited, "a favourite has no friend," in a poem in which "two angel forms were seen to glide" before the title event.
  - Another poem by this author describes the "silver winding way" of a river by which young men "hear a voice in ev'ry wind / and snatch a fearful joy." The speaker laments, "No dolphin came, no Nereid stirred," in a poem by this author that describes "the (*) slippery verge her feet beguil'd." This author concluded a poem set by the "hoary Thames" with the lines "if ignorance is bliss / tis folly to be wise." This author's most famous poem ponders a "mute inglorious Milton" in the title place, which is "far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife." For 10 points, name this author of "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" and "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard." [PWR,GIVE]

[T5] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - The central character of one of this author's poems finishes addressing an invading king before "headlong from the mountain's height, deep in the roaring tide he plunged to endless night." The lines "Here rests his head upon the lap of earth, a youth to fortune and to fame unknown" begin an epitaph by him found on his tomb in Stoke Poges (POH-jiss).
  - This poet addressed "fields beloved in vain, where once my careless childhood strayed, a stranger yet to pain!" in a poem which ends "No more; where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise." This man described how "far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife, their seer wishes never learned to stray" in a poem that opens "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name this English poet of "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" and "Elegy in a Country Churchyard." [GIVE]

[T6] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - This person described how the designers of Peterborough Cathedral "seem to have thought there was a beauty in this confusion" in his Essay on Norman Architecture.
  - This poet described "Ye distant spires, ye antique towers" of the titular institution in a poem which concludes "where ignorance is bliss//'Tis folly to be wise." In this man's most famous work, he mused that: "The paths of Glory lead but to the grave" in a reflection upon the titular location after "the knell of parting day".
  - For ten points, name this English poet who wrote Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College and Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard. [GIVE]

[T7] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - One critic noted that this writer attempted to widen the separation between prose and metrical composition, citing the lines "I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear,/And weep the more because I weep in vain" from this author's "Sonnet on the Death of Richard West." He asks "what female heart can gold despise" in a poem describing the death of the pensive (*) Selima before concluding "nor all that glisters gold." His most famous work includes the lines "Here rests his head upon the lap of earth /A youth to fortune and to fame unknown" in "The Epitaph" and opens "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name the 18th century poet of "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat" and "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard." [PWR,GIVE]

[T8] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Gray
  - The "sweet fragrance" of one character with this first and last name precedes him as he enters a jail cell in Southampton County.
  - That character with this name asks "How come you only slew one?" and is based on a real-life figure who wrote a pamphlet describing a ($) solar eclipse and the death of Margaret Whitehead.
  - Another man with this first and last name described a place where "China's gayest art had dyed / The azure flowers that blow" in a poem where "No Dolphin came, no Nereid stirred / Nor cruel Tom, nor Susan heard." That poem warns "Not all that tempts your wandering eyes / And heedless hearts is lawful prize," and was written by a man who shares his name with the (*) lawyer of Nat Turner. [PWR]
  - For ten points, identify this author who wrote about how a "slippery verge her feet beguiled" in his "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem begins "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"):
    Name this poem whose title location may contain "Some mute inglorious Milton" or "Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    This poet of "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" authored "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 3 (ans: epitaph [or "Epitaph to a Dog"; prompt on inscription]):
    This word separates and describes the last three stanzas of Gray's "Elegy." This is the first title word of a Lord Byron poem in which he claims that his dog Boatswain had "all the virtues of Man without his Vices."

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem about one of these animals describes him as "the servant of the Living God." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cats [accept "For I will Consider My Cat Joffrey"; accept Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats; accept Cats]):
    Name these animals, the English form of whom one poem describes as "the best in Europe." T. S. Eliot wrote the collection Old Possum's Book of Practical [these animals], which inspired a musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Smart):
    This poet described the ten stages of a cat's grooming routine in "For I will Consider My Cat Jeoffry," a section of his larger work Jubilate Agno.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    This author asked "What cat's averse to fish?" in a poem describing "the pensive Selima," "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes."

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, an unspecified "they" say that the "dead man" "always loved larking." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Not Waving but Drowning"):
    Name this poem whose line "I was much too far out all my life" has sometimes been interpreted as a reference to the author's own depression.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    The author of that poem, Stevie Smith, wrote a poem titled "Thoughts about the Person from Porlock," which claims that this English Romantic poet was already stuck while trying to write "Kubla Khan."
  Part 3 (ans: cats [or felines; accept "The Galloping Cat"; the other author and poem is Thomas Gray's "Ode on the Death of a Favourite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes"]):
    Smith wrote a poem from the perspective of one of these creatures "that likes to / Gallop about doing good." A different author stated "one false step is ne'er retrieved" in a poem about one of these creatures named Selima.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these events is the subject of Arna Bontemps' novel Black Thunder. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: slave revolts [accept slave rebellions or other clear synonyms; prompt on revolt, rebellion, insurrection, or mutiny by asking, "Of what people?"]):
    Name this kind of event. During one of these events in a novel, the protagonist is coerced into killing Margaret Whitehead by the ax-wielding Will.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray [prompt on partial; accept Thomas Ruffin Gray]):
    William Styron's novel The Confessions of Nat Turner was based on the similarly-named firsthand account written by an attorney with this first and last name. A poet with this first and last name wrote "An Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Hayden [or Asa Bundy Sheffey]):
    This author of the poem "The Ballad of Nat Turner" and "Those Winter Sundays" wrote about the slave trade in his poem "Middle Passage."

[B5] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay claims that the "increasing accumulation of men in cities" is part of a multitude of causes that have "blunt the discriminating powers of the mind" and reduced it "to a state of almost savage torpor" fit only for "frantic novels" and "sickly and stupid German Tragedies." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Preface to Lyrical Ballads [prompt on partial answers; accept descriptions such as the introduction to Lyrical Ballads]):
    The claim that "all good poetry is the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings" appears in what William Wordsworth essay that begins an 1800 edition of a collection of his poems?
  Part 2 (ans: indolence [accept "Ode on Indolence"; reject synonyms such as "laziness"]):
    In the Preface, Wordsworth claims that he wishes to protect himself from "one of the most dishonourable accusations which can be brought against an Author, namely" this specific concept. The speaker of a John Keats ode on this concept exclaims "Vanish, ye Phantoms" to the spirits of Love, Ambition, and Poesy.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Wordsworth italicizes five lines from this author's sonnet on the death of Richard West, including "I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear, / And weep the more because I weep in vain," as being superior to the rest of the poem due to their stylistic similarities to prose.

[B6] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One biographer of this man said that one of his works "abounds with images that find a mirror in every mind." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Name this poet who wrote about people observed by a "hoary-headed swain" who "kept the noiseless tenor" "along the cool sequester'd vale of life." He wrote "where ignorance is bliss / 'tis folly to be wise" in another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets):
    That biography of Thomas Gray was included in this collection of biographies of fifty-two 18th-century English poets, one of which was earlier published alone as The Life of Richard Savage.
  Part 3 (ans: James Boswell):
    The author of The Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets, Samuel Johnson, was the subject of a famous biography by this man.

[B7] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This animal "counteracts the powers of darkness by / his electrical skin and glaring eyes," and can "spraggle upon waggle at the word of command." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Smart's cat [or Jeoffry] [10) Smart's cat can "swim for life," unlike poor Selima, who "mewed to every watery god" yet still "Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes" in an ode by this churchyard poet. ANSWER: Thomas Gray):
    Name, or describe, this animal, a "servant of the Living God" whom the speaker "considers" in an extremely wholesome and loving passage of the fragmentary poem Jubilate Agno.
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Seward):
    Another cat named Selima pictures a heaven full of "golden fish and wingless bird" in a "dying soliloquy" by this "Swan of Lichfield," a lesbian Romantic poet whose verse was posthumously collected by Sir Walter Scott.

[B8] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote the line "The paths of glory lead but to the grave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Name this writer who described "Some mute inglorious Milton" and "Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" in his poem "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Graveyard By The Sea" [or reasonable translations for "Le cimetiere marin"] [by Paul Valery]):
    This poem, by a different author, begins and ends with images of a quiet roof and dove sails and asks the "cruel philosopher Zeno, / Have you then pierced me with your feathered arrow."

[B9] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay claims that there is no "essential difference between the language of prose and metrical composition," in part to justify the author's focus on depicting "humble and rustic life" in a selection of "language really used by men." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Preface to Lyrical Ballads):
    Identify this essay, which claims that "all good poetry is the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings".
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray [the author of "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"]):
    In the Preface to Lyrical Ballads, Wordsworth quotes this man's "Sonnet on the Death of Richard West" in full, italicizing only five lines as worth keeping. This man wrote that "The paths of glory lead but to the grave" in a popular elegy.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Bard: A Pindaric Ode"):
    Gray set this "Pindaric Ode" during a "toilsome march" of Edward I's army. Its title Welshman chants such things as "Weave the warp, and weave the woof, / The winding-sheet of Edward's race" before leaping to his death.

[B10] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A parenthetical statement in the poem about this figure notes that "Malignant Fate sat by, and smil'd." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Horace Walpole's cat [accept Selima; accept, but do not reveal, Thomas Gray's favorite cat]):
    Name this figure, who "mew'd to every watery God" after she "stretch'd, in vain, to reach the prize" and plunged into a bowl of water.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    This English poet wrote "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat," as well as "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 3 (ans: Richard West):
    Gray wrote how "My lonely anguish melts no heart but mine" in a sonnet on the death of this man, which appears in the preface to another poet's Lyrical Ballads.

[B11] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: William Wordsworth's preface to Lyrical Ballads criticized a sonnet by this poet for using imagery of the god Phoebus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Name this alumnus of Eton College, who reminded readers that "all that glisters [is not] gold" in an ode for a cat that drowned in a tub of goldfish.
  Part 2 (ans: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"):
    Gray wrote that "the paths of glory lead but to the grave" in this poem, which opens as "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day" near the title gloomy locale.
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Cromwell):
    After noting that "Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest," Gray writes that someone like this leader, "guiltless of his country's blood," might rest in the churchyard.

[B12] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet claimed to "weep the more, because I weep in vain" at the end of his "Sonnet on the Death of Mr. Richard West." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Name this 18th century British poet, who also mused on whether "some mute inglorious Milton" lay dead in the title location of his "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 2 (ans: "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College"):
    In this poem, Gray describes how young men will eventually have to face "Disdainful Anger, pallid Fear, and Shame that skulks behind," but decides not to tell them, since "ignorance is bliss."
  Part 3 (ans: William Cowper):
    This contemporary of Gray claimed that "God moves in a mysterious way" in one of his Olney Hymns, which he authored with John Newton. He wrote a long epic poem called The Task on the subject of a sofa in his parlor.

[B13] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, identify the following poets who wrote poems about poets who did not write enough poems before dying.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    This poet imagined that somebody in the graveyard Stoke Poges might have been "some mute inglorious Milton" who died before he could write great poems in his "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 2 (ans: John Keats):
    This poet wrote of "fears that I may cease to be / before my pen has glean'd my teeming brain" in one poem. He also wrote "To Autumn."
  Part 3 (ans: W.H. Auden):
    In 1965, this poet eulogized his friend Louis MacNeice by angrily declaring that MacNeice had wasted his talent on boozing and profligate living and charging that, on Judgment Day, God will "recit[e] by heart / the poems you would have written / had your life been good."

[B14] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem calls frolicking children "little victims" surrounded by "the ministers of human fate" and "black Misfortune's baleful train." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College"):
    Name this poem, which begins by addressing the "distant spires" and "antique towers" of the title location. It proclaims "where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" was written by this Graveyard poet, who imagined a "mute inglorious Milton" in his "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 3 (ans: Horace Walpole):
    Gray wrote a mock elegy about this author's cat Selima. He designed the villa Strawberry Hill and wrote the essay On Modern Gardening, as well as the epigram "The world is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel."
