=== STOCK CLUES: Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: graveyards [or cemeteries; or graves; or churchyards; accept "In Nunhead Cemetery"; accept "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"; prompt on churches by asking "in what part of the church is that poem set?"]
  - A speaker in one of these title places notes that "The others have gone; they were tired...
  - But I would rather be standing here" in a poem that declares "There is something terrible about a child." Charlotte Mew wrote a poem set at one of these places "In Nunhead." A "school" of poetry named for these places included Thomas Parnell and Robert Blair.
  - In a poem set in one of these places, the speaker imagines "a heart once pregnant with celestial fire" and "hands" that "wak'd to ecstasy the living lyre." The speaker of a poem reflects that "the paths of glory led but to" one of these places in a poem that includes an epitaph to "A youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown" and begins "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, an elegy by Thomas Gray is set in a "Country" type of what location? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: churchyard [or graveyard; accept cemetery or burial ground; accept "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"; accept "In a Churchyard"; accept Graveyard Poets; prompt on church; prompt on grave]
  - A Richard Wilbur poem titled for this sort of place describes "a wild supposed bloom" and is addressed to the author of an earlier poem titled for one of these places, whose speaker feels "a breezy call of incense-breathing morn." A poem set in this sort of place describes "many a gem of purest ray serene" and was written by a member of a group of poets named for these places that included Thomas Parnell and Robert Blair.
  - A narrator in one of these places imagines being spotted by a "hoary-headed swain" while pondering "rude forefathers of the hamlet," such as a "guiltless" "Cromwell." One of these places is noted to be "far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife" in a poem that begins, "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name this sort of place that titles an elegy by Thomas Gray. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: church [accept cathedrals or "Church-Monuments" or "Church Going" or "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard;" prompt on graveyard or equivalents]
  - A poem set in one of these locations states that "flesh is but the glass, which holds the dust / That measures all our time." In another poem, a cyclist becomes embarrassed after saying "Here endeth" too loudly in one of these locations. [PWR]
  - That one of these locations is called an "accoutred frowsty barn" after the speaker asks "will dubious women come / To make their children touch a particular stone." A poem set (*) outside one of these locations describes how "The plowman homeward plods his weary way." An A.E. [PWR]
  - Housman poem urges "noisy bells, be dumb" after his lover "stole out unbeknown" to one of these locations without being accompanied by a groom.
  - A poem set outside one of these locations muses that "Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest." For 10 points, name these locations, the yard of which serves as the setting for a Thomas Gray poem. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: elegy [or "An Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog"; or "Elegy for Jane"; or "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"]
  - It's not "an," but this is the first word in the title of a poem that describes a man from Islington about which the world might say "That still a godly race he ran, / Whene'er he went to pray." A poem whose title begins with this word describes a woman with "neckcurls, limp and damp as tendrils" who has "a sidelong pickering smile." In a poem with this first word in its title, a "moping owl does to the moon complain" of those who would molest "her ancient solitary reign." A man (*) recovers from a dog bite in an Oliver Goldsmith poem with this first title word.
  - It begins the title of a poem that describes such people as a "mute inglorious Milton" and a "Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood." For 10 points, identify this type of poem such as Theodore Roethke's one "for Jane" and Thomas Gray's one "Written in a Country Churchyard." [GIVE]

[T5] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"
  - In Cultural Capital, John Guillory related this poem's "refunctioning of the commonplace book" to its subsequent linguistic capital as a means of inculcating literacy in schools.
  - William Empson objected to the "complacence" of this poem's "bourgeois ideology," arguing that the "universality and impersonality" of its truisms "claim as if by comparison that we ought to accept the injustice of society." Assessing this poem, Samuel Johnson famously wrote, "Had [he] written often thus, it had been vain to blame, and useless to praise him," concluding his "Life" of its author.
  - In this poem, the speaker imagines himself being described as "drooping, woeful wan, like one forlorn, or crazed with care, or crossed in hopeless love." This poem asks, "Can Honour's voice provoke the silent dust?" and praises the "rude forefathers of the hamlet" whose "sober wishes never learned to stray" as they dwelt "far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife." For 10 points, name this influential elegy, the magnum opus of Thomas Gray. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character adds the line "Do not desert me!" to a note for a shepherd whom she earlier saved from asphyxiating in his hut. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bathsheba Everdene [or Bathsheba Everdene]):
    Name this character who marries a different suitor who is shot by Boldwood and buried with Fanny Robin. That suitor impresses this character by splitting a caterpillar on her bosom as part of a swordplay demonstration.
  Part 2 (ans: soldier [or military; accept sergeant; accept captain]):
    Bathsheba Everdene initially marries Frank Troy, a man of this occupation. The Sign of the Four begins with Mary Morstan, the daughter of a murdered man in this occupation, receiving pearls from a treasure from Agra Fort.
  Part 3 (ans: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"):
    Far from the Madding Crowd takes its title from a line in this Thomas Gray poem, which says of its title location that "Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest" and begins, "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day."

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Samuel Johnson made edits to both this poem and a sarcastic response by George Crabbe that asked "Is there a place, save one the poet sees, / A land of love, of liberty, and ease?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Deserted Village" (by Oliver Goldsmith)):
    What 1770 poem in heroic couplets laments the loss of "light labour," "the rural virtues," and a "bold peasantry" while describing "Sweet Auburn"?
  Part 2 (ans: "wealth accumulates" OR "men decay"):
    While surveying the ruin of the deserted village, Oliver Goldsmith's speaker claims "Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey / where" two things happen. Name either.
  Part 3 (ans: country [accept "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"]):
    In The Task, William Cowper ("Cooper") similarly wrote that "God made [this place], and man made the town." A Thomas Gray elegy is set in a churchyard described by this word.

[B3] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem titled for this man describes, "three fork'd lightning, first / Breaking the clouds where it was nurst." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oliver Cromwell [or "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland"]):
    Name this "restless" man who could not cease "in the inglorious arts of peace" in a poem written in the style of Horace.
  Part 2 (ans: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"):
    This Thomas Gray poem mentions "Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood," resting alongside a "mute inglorious Milton." Its "Epitaph" addresses a "youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown."
  Part 3 (ans: Astraea Redux):
    Despite praising the Protectorate in his "Heroic Stanzas on the Death of Oliver Cromwell," John Dryden changed his stance and praised Charles II in this other poem, which calls the king a "happy prince."

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem begins "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"):
    Name this poem whose title location may contain "Some mute inglorious Milton" or "Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    This poet of "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" authored "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
  Part 3 (ans: epitaph [or "Epitaph to a Dog"; prompt on inscription]):
    This word separates and describes the last three stanzas of Gray's "Elegy." This is the first title word of a Lord Byron poem in which he claims that his dog Boatswain had "all the virtues of Man without his Vices."

[B5] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker asks the dancer to remember this phenomenon in a poem which notes that "the triumphant march has entered the last street corners". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: thunder [accept Path of Thunder]):
    Name this phenomenon that is described as being able to break "Obduracy, the disease of elephants" in a poem. This phenomenon titles a collection of "Poems Prophesying War" that were published along with its author's Labyrinths.
  Part 2 (ans: elegy [accept Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard]):
    Christopher Okigbo's ("ock-EEG-bow") Path of Thunder contains poems in this genre for "Alto" and a slit-drum. "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day" in a poem "written in a country churchyard" in this genre.
  Part 3 (ans: masks [accept "The Lament of the Masks"; accept "We Wear the Mask"]):
    Okigbo wrote a poem titled "The Lament" of these objects for William Butler Yeats's ("yayts") centenary. The use of these objects is described as "this debt we pay to human guile" in a poem that describes the speaker's mouth as having "myriad subtleties".

[B6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In an unfinished acrostic for a girl named Frances Alexander, this person wrote, "From your bright sparkling Eyes, I was undone." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Washington [accept "To His Excellency General Washington"]):
    Name this person, who titles a poem whose speaker describes, "A crown, a mansion, and a throne that shine." The speaker of a poem titled for this person says, "The Goddess comes, she moves divinely fair."
  Part 2 (ans: Phillis Wheatley):
    This author wrote "To His Excellency General Washington" and "On the Death of the Rev. Mr. George Whitefield."
  Part 3 (ans: elegy [accept "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"]):
    Wheatley's poem about George Whitefield is in this genre, as is her recently uncovered poem "On the Death of Love Rotch." Thomas Gray wrote one of these memorial poems "in a Country Churchyard."

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The preface to Victor Hugo's massive verse play about this person served as a manifesto for a Shakespearean-style Romantic French drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oliver Cromwell [The last poem is by Andrew Marvell.]):
    Name this subject of Edmund Waller's earliest "Panegyrick" and Milton's sixteenth sonnet. Because he "could not cease in the inglorious arts of peace," this man is praised in a "Horatian Ode."
  Part 2 (ans: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" [John Hampden was Cromwell's cousin.]):
    This Thomas Gray poem praises "some village-Hampden," "some mute inglorious Milton" and "some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood."
  Part 3 (ans: Richard West [or "On the Death of Richard West"; or "Sonnet on the Death of Mr. Richard West"]):
    The sources of Gray's elegy include this poet's "Monody on Queen Caroline." This poet's death titles a Gray sonnet that ends, "I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear, and weep the more because I weep in vain."

[B8] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem set in one of these locations says that "there is something horrible about a flower" and tells his deceased fiancee that "you do not miss a rose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cemetery [or graveyard; accept country churchyard or "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" or "In Nunhead Cemetery"]):
    Name these places, one of which is called Nunhead in the title of a poem by Charlotte Mew. Thomas Gray stated that "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day" to open an "elegy" written in one of these places.
  Part 2 (ans: statues coming to life [accept any answer mentioning statues or sculptures and living or speaking or similar actions indicating "life"]):
    "In Nunhead Cemetery" states that this action will occur at Trafalgar Square when the "bell of Judgement tolls." In a Susanna Clarke novel, Mr. Norrell proves his magical powers by making this action occur at York Cathedral.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This contemporary of Mew regarded her as "far and away the best living woman poet." This writer wrote of how the sound of "gunnery practice out at sea" broke "the chancel window-squares" in his poem "Channel Firing."

[B9] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay claims that there is no "essential difference between the language of prose and metrical composition," in part to justify the author's focus on depicting "humble and rustic life" in a selection of "language really used by men." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Preface to Lyrical Ballads):
    Identify this essay, which claims that "all good poetry is the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings".
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gray [the author of "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"]):
    In the Preface to Lyrical Ballads, Wordsworth quotes this man's "Sonnet on the Death of Richard West" in full, italicizing only five lines as worth keeping. This man wrote that "The paths of glory lead but to the grave" in a popular elegy.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Bard: A Pindaric Ode"):
    Gray set this "Pindaric Ode" during a "toilsome march" of Edward I's army. Its title Welshman chants such things as "Weave the warp, and weave the woof, / The winding-sheet of Edward's race" before leaping to his death.

[B10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: William Wordsworth's preface to Lyrical Ballads criticized a sonnet by this poet for using imagery of the god Phoebus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Gray):
    Name this alumnus of Eton College, who reminded readers that "all that glisters [is not] gold" in an ode for a cat that drowned in a tub of goldfish.
  Part 2 (ans: "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"):
    Gray wrote that "the paths of glory lead but to the grave" in this poem, which opens as "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day" near the title gloomy locale.
  Part 3 (ans: Oliver Cromwell):
    After noting that "Some mute inglorious Milton here may rest," Gray writes that someone like this leader, "guiltless of his country's blood," might rest in the churchyard.
