=== STOCK CLUES: Bellini ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 34 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vincenzo Bellini
  - To his librettist, this composer stated "Carve into your head in adamantine letters... people must weep, shudder, die through singing" regarding his final opera, which was premiered by a "quartet" of Lablache , Rubini, Tamburini, and Giulia Grisi. [PWR]
  - Carlo Pepoli wrote the lyrics for an aria by this man in which the tenor laments "a poor girl who believed I had betrayed her" before hitting a difficult F5, "Credeasi misera." This frequent collaborator with Felice Romani was beloved by Wagner for his (*) long melodic lines. [PWR]
  - A "March of the Pilgrims" appears in an opera by this composer set during the English Civil War.
  - In another opera by this composer of I Puritani, the protagonist holds some mistletoe as she pleads to a "chaste goddess," or "Casta Diva." For 10 points, what Italian bel canto composer wrote about a persecuted druid priestess in Norma? [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Giovanni Bellini [or John Bellini; prompt on Bellini or G. Bellini; do not accept or prompt on "Gentile Bellini"] (Giovanni Bellini was referred to as John Bellini by Ruskin; his brother-in-law was Andrea Mantegna.)
  - An outdoor work by this artist shows animals symbolizing solitude, including a bittern, a hare poking its head out, and a heron standing on some rocks, as well as the title figure, who stands in front of a grapevine with barely visible stigmata on his right hand. [PWR]
  - This artist painted a kingfisher and Bacchus as a baby, which likely refer to the wedding of Alfonso d'Este , in a piece inspired by Ovid's Fasti. [PWR]
  - John Ruskin declared the "two greatest pictures in the world" were this artist's Frari Triptych and his sacra conversazione for the convent at (*) San Zaccaria, which shares details with his brother-in-law's San Zeno altarpiece.
  - Antonello da Messina introduced this man to oil painting, which he popularized in Italy and taught to Giorgione.
  - This man painted Silenus creeping on the sleeping Lotis in a painting later updated by Dosso Dossi.
  - The Frick Collection holds this artist's Saint Francis in Ecstasy.
  - For 10 points, name this Venetian painter whose student Titian finished his painting The Feast of the Gods. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vincenzo Bellini
  - One opera by this composer has the Romanza "Dopo l'oscura nembo," which is sung by Nelly as she finds out Lord Adelson has been forced to break his engagement with her. [PWR]
  - That aria is used in a later opera, in which Giulietta sings "O quante volte." Besides the operas "Adelson e Salvini" and "I Capuleti e i Montecchi," this composer also wrote an opera in which the phrase "Ah! [PWR]
  - Non credea mirarti" is sung by the titular character, Amina, in the aria "Ah!
  - Non giunge uman pensiero" after she awakens from (*) sleepwalking atop a mill bridge.
  - This composer's most famous opera contains the aria "Ah!
  - Bello a me ritorna" as the titular character wishes for peace with Rome.
  - Earlier in that scene, the same druid sings "Casta diva" after raising a mistletoe to the moon to protect Pollione.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian composer of bel canto operas such as La Sonnambula and Norma. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bellini [or Jacopo Bellini; or Gentile Bellini; or Giovanni Bellini] 2
  - An artist with this surname made parchment books of leadpoint drawings that includes his version of the Flagellation, which takes place underneath a pair of loggia.
  - That man's son painted the now lost frescoes in the Topkapi Harem and fled from Constantinople after his patron, Mehmed II, beheaded a slave to show him that his depiction of John the Baptist's severed head was not realistic.
  - A different artist with this surname painted a sacra conversazione which features Job with a pink loincloth and St.
  - Louis of Toulouse.
  - That artist with this surname painted the San Giobbe Altarpiece and included some stone steps that function as a bridge over a river in his version of Agony in the Garden.
  - Andrea Mantegna was the brother-in-law of that artist, who depicted a man with outstretched hands in front of a cave in St.
  - Francis in Ecstasy.
  - For 10 points, what is this surname shared by Gentile, the official portraitist of the doges of Venice, and his brother Giovanni, who never finished The Feast of the Gods? [GIVE]

[T5] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vincenzo (Salvatore Carmelo Francesco) Bellini
  - In one opera by this composer, a character compares her rejection by her fiancee to flowers growing extinct in a day in an aria sung while crossing a rickety bridge.
  - Elvino takes back his engagement ring in an opera by him in which the title character sings "Ah! non credea mirarti".
  - One of his characters recalls seeing his beloved at the altar of Venus in the aria "Meco all'attar di Venere".
  - Adalgisa is entrusted with Pollione's children in that opera by him.
  - In one opera by him, it is discovered that the village phantom is really Amina sleepwalking.
  - In another opera by him, the ritual cutting of a mistletoe branch is accompanied by the singing of "Casta Diva" by the title druid priestess.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian bel canto composer of La sonnambula and Norma. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For his 1708 book Balance of Painters, French critic Roger de Piles ("ro-ZHAY duh PEEL") made a table that gave numeric ratings to 58 painters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Titian [or TizianoVecelli; accept any underlined portion]):
    De Piles's highest ratings for "color," at 18 out of 20, were a tie between this Venetian artist of Venus of Urbino and his teacher Giorgione.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Bellini [prompt on Bellini; prompt on G. Bellini] (His elder brother is Gentile Bellini.)):
    De Piles gave a 0 for "expression" to this man, who showed a robed man staring upward open-mouthed on a rocky landscape in St. Francis in Ecstasy. He worked on a huge painting of St. Mark Preaching in Alexandria with his elder brother.
  Part 3 (ans: Nicolas Poussin AND Peter Paul Rubens [accept Poussinists AND Rubenists]):
    Two answers required. De Piles was involved in a debate over these two artists among the French Academy. One of these artists, a French painter of classical landscapes, represented the merit of design, while the other, from a neighboring country, represented the merit of color.

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one opera, the oboe occasionally interjects as a character performing this action laments her withered flowers and sings the aria "Ah! non credea mirarti / si presto estinto, o fiore." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sleepwalking [or somnambulism or noctambulism; accept La Sonnambula or The Sleepwalker; prompt on sleeping; prompt on walking]):
    Name this title action of an 1831 opera. Elvino calls off a wedding after mistakenly believing that a woman performing this action is having an affair with Rodolfo when she ends up in his room.
  Part 2 (ans: Vincenzo ("veen-CHENT-so") Bellini [or Vincenzo Salvatore Carmelo Francesco Bellini]):
    A line from Amina's "flower aria" from La Sonnambula is inscribed on the tomb of this Italian composer of bel canto operas such as Norma.
  Part 3 (ans: pirates [accept Il pirata or The Pirates of Penzance; accept swashbucklers or privateers or buccaneers or corsairs; prompt on sailors or robbers or thieves or thief or seamen or mariners]):
    Besides Amina, Maria Callas's signature Bellini roles include Imogene, a woman who is seduced by one of these people named Gualtiero. In an operetta, one of these title characters sings "Oh, is there not one maiden breast?"

[B3] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one opera, Amina unknowingly performs this action as she mourns, "I did not believe you would fade so soon, oh flower," a phrase inscribed on the grave of its composer who died at age 33. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sleepwalking [prompt on crossing a bridge by asking "while performing what action?"]):
    Name this action. Verdi called for a "hollow and stifled" soprano voice to sing a fragile high D-flat on the word "andiam" ("ahn-DYAHM") at the end of another scene nicknamed for this action.
  Part 2 (ans: Vincenzo Bellini (The opera is Norma.)):
    Amina is the title "sleepwalker" of a bel canto opera by this composer. The title druid priestess prays to the moon goddess for peace in the cavatina "Casta diva" from this composer's most famous opera.
  Part 3 (ans: Macbeth [or The Tragedy of Macbeth; prompt on The Scottish Play or The Bard's Play]):
    Verdi wrote his sleepwalking scene for his adaptation of this Shakespeare play, which casts a chorus of 18 women to play three witches who predict the title character will become King of Scotland.

[B4] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these animals appears in the background of Ghirlandaio's Adoration of the Magi in the Tornabuoni Chapel of Santa Maria Novella, possibly inspired by one gifted to Lorenzo the Magnificent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: giraffe):
    Name this animal which is depicted with Lorenzo in a Vasari painting in the Palazzo Vecchio. In addition to a camel, one of these animals stands in the background of St Mark Preaching in Alexandria.
  Part 2 (ans: Bellini):
    Drawings of the Medici Giraffe inspired the appearance of one in St Mark Preaching in Alexandria, which was painted by two Venetian brothers with this surname, Giovanni and Gentile, the former of whom painted The Feast of the Gods.
  Part 3 (ans: John the Baptist [prompt on partial]):
    Gentile's time in Constantinople, which gave his painting many Eastern influences, ended when Mehmed II allegedly killed a slave to help him paint this man. Leonardo's probable final painting depicts this saint oddly erotically, and pointing upwards.

[B5] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 1972 Met performance of this opera garnered Luciano Pavarotti seventeen curtain calls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La fille du regiment ("la fee du ray-jee-MAWN") [or The Daughter of the Regiment]):
    Name this opera by Gaetano Donizetti whose difficult tenor role of Tonio must sing a high C nine times in a row in the difficult aria "Ah! mes amis" ("AH may zah-MEE").
  Part 2 (ans: Natalie Dessay ("duh-SAY")):
    This green-eyed blond French coloratura soprano played Maria and Juan Diego Florez played Tonio in an acclaimed 2007 Met production of La fille du regiment. She retired from opera in 2013.
  Part 3 (ans: Vincenzo Bellini):
    Dessay played Amina in a 2009 Met production of this composer's La sonnambula that was controversially set in a modern rehearsal hall. This rival of Donizetti wrote the aria "Casta Diva" for his opera Norma.

[B6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first artwork to include this feature was a depiction of The Holy Family named for the tiny insect in its bottom right, and it also appears on the cover of the Four Books on Human Proportion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht Durer's monogram [or Albrecht Durer's initials; accept answers that mention an A and a D; accept anything that mentions Albrecht Durer and words like symbol; prompt on Albrecht Durer's signature]):
    Name this feature that an artist was given exclusive rights to in a successful suit against Marcantanio Raimondi over his copies of it. This feature is unusually absent in a plaque under a parrot in a depiction of Adam and Eve.
  Part 2 (ans: the Devil [or Knight, Death, and the Devil; or Ritter, Tod und Teufel]):
    Raimondi had dastardly copied over 70 of Durer's engravings. Thankfully, Durer sued him before he could copy his "master" engraving depicting a knight, death, and this third title figure who is given a goat's head.
  Part 3 (ans: Bellini [accept Giovanni Bellini]):
    In Venice, Durer befriended a member of this family named Giovanni who painted The Feast of the Gods. Although Antonello da Messina did not introduce oil paint to Venice, he still influenced that artist from this family.

[B7] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The soprano aria 'Ah! non credea mirarti' is sung by Amina in the last act of this opera as she crosses an unsafe bridge holding some withered flowers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La sonnambula [The Sleepwalker]):
    Name this opera in which the jealous Elviro's repeated suspicions of Amina's faithfulness are encouraged by the inn-owning Lisa, who wants to marry him.
  Part 2 (ans: Vincenzo Bellini):
    The first lines of that aria from La sonnambula, which lament the early blooming of a flower, are written on the tomb of this bel canto composer of I puritani and Norma.
  Part 3 (ans: Anna Bolena):
    Unlike Bellini's success at a young age, Donizetti wrote 30 operas before having success with this tragic opera, whose title character is still in love with Lord Richard Percy while her husband plots to replace her with her lady-in-waiting.

[B8] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This F major, 12/8-time ("twelve-eight-time") cavatina begins with the soprano sustaining a messa di voce A4 ("A-four") for seven-and-a-half beats. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Casta diva"):
    Name this Act I aria which concludes with a two-octave coloratura passage on the words "ah, si," between statements of the declaration "che regnar tu fai nel ciel" ("keh ren-YAR too FYE nell ch'YELL").
  Part 2 (ans: Vincenzo Bellini [or Vincenzo Salvatore Carmelo Francesco Bellini]):
    "Casta diva" hails from this composer's 1831 opera Norma, whose title druid has an affair with the Roman proconsul Pollione, for which both are burnt alive to death.
  Part 3 (ans: bel canto):
    The operas of Bellini and compatriot Gaetano Donizetti exemplify this lyrical style that stressed precise execution of tempo, dynamic, and ornamentation.

[B9] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2018 the National Gallery held the first joint exhibition for these two men, both of whom chose a barren, craggy landscape as the setting for their versions of The Agony in the Garden. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andrea Mantegna and Giovanni Bellini):
    Name these two fifteenth century artists who were brothers-in-law. One of them painted the Camera degli Sposi as the court artist for Ludovico Gonzaga in Mantua, whereas the other's canvas The Feast of the Gods was modified by his pupil Titian.
  Part 2 (ans: Presentation of Christ in the Temple):
    In commemoration of the birth of his first child to Nicolosia Bellini, Mantegna painted a version of this scene showing an infant swaddled in mummy-looking white cloth. Bellini exactly traced Mantegna's rendition when painting his own version of this scene, which changes the colors of Simeon's vestments.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Jerome):
    Mantegna and Bellini both shaped the iconography of a scene depicting this saint reading "in the wilderness," by emphasizing the cragginess of his rocky hermitage and including the lion that he had tamed. This saint was also commonly painted in His Study.

[B10] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During the duet 'In mia man alfin tu sei', Pollione offers to die to try to convince the title character not to sacrifice their children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Norma):
    The title character of this opera incites the Celts to war against the Romans in the chorus 'Guerra, guerra!', and ends the opera by committing suicide with Pollione.
  Part 2 (ans: Vincenzo Salvatore Carmelo Francesco Bellini):
    Norma is a bel canto opera by this Italian composer, who also composed an opera about the sleepwalking Amina, La sonnambula.
  Part 3 (ans: Adalgisa):
    Most the drama in Norma arises from Pollione's affair with this priestess, who Pollione urges to come to Rome in the duet Vieni in Roma.

[B11] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about extreme notes in the operatic repertoire, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Ades (ADD-iss)):
    The highest note ever sung at the Metropolitan Opera was an A above high C sung by soprano Audrey Luna in this 21st-century British composer's The Exterminating Angel. Luna played Ariel in this composer's The Tempest.
  Part 2 (ans: Vincenzo Bellini [Vincenzo Salvatore Carmelo Francesco Bellini]):
    In this bel canto opera composer's I puritani, the tenor role Arturo sings up to an F5 during the aria "Credeasi, misera." This composer also wrote La sonnambula.
  Part 3 (ans: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart):
    The lowest bass note in the standard repertoire is a D2 from Osmin's aria "O, wie will ich triumphieren" in this composer's singspiel The Abduction from the Seraglio. He also wrote Cosi fan tutte.

[B12] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer insisted to librettist Carlo Pepoli that "Opera must make people weep, feel horrified, die through singing" while working on an opera about the English Civil War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vincenzo Bellini (The operas are I puritani and Norma.)):
    Name this bel canto composer, one of whose operas features the arias "In mia man" and "Casta diva."
  Part 2 (ans: Romeo and Juliet [or Romeo i Dzhulyetta]):
    Bellini's I Capuleti e i Montecchi is based on two families from this play, which is also the basis for a ballet by Sergei Prokofiev that contains the "Dance of the Knights."
  Part 3 (ans: Il Pirata [or The Pirate]):
    This early Romantic opera marked Bellini's first collaboration with Felice Romani ("feh-LEE-chay roh-MAH-nee"). The tenor Giovanni Rubini was the intended performer of its title role, Gualtiero, an exiled count who loves Imogene ("ee-moh-JEH-nay").

[B13] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Ottoman Empire in Italian Renaissance art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Venice):
    Paolo Veronese, a painter from this city, painted a portrait of Sultan Bayezid I and depicted a defeat of the Turks in his Allegory of the Battle of Lepanto. Canaletto, a painter from this city, painted its Grand Canal.
  Part 2 (ans: Bellini):
    A member of this family influenced the Persian painter Behzad with his Ottoman-inspired miniature A Seated Scribe. That member of this family, Gentile, was inspired by his journeys in the empire to paint St. Mark Preaching in Alexandria with his brother Giovanni.
  Part 3 (ans: The Pesaro Madonna [or The Madonna of the Pesaro Family]):
    A knight holding a red flag holds a captured Turk wearing a turban on the left side of this painting. The figures in this Titian painting stand on a diagonal marble staircase in front of two giant pillars.

[B14] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about crazy productions of various operas, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart):
    A 2001 English National Opera production of an opera by this composer featured drinking, drugs, and urinating on stage. The director accused opera critics of being "weird" and "prissy" after the audience booed that production of this composer's Don Giovanni.
  Part 2 (ans: Salome (SAH-lo-may)):
    A 1949 production of this Richard (REE-shot) Strauss opera directed by Peter Brook featured designs by Salvador Dali and enraged audiences. This opera includes the "Dance of the Seven Veils."
  Part 3 (ans: La sonnambula [or The Sleepwalker] (by Vincenzo Bellini)):
    American audiences booed a 2009 production of this opera that moved the setting from the Alps to New York. In this opera, the title character Amina is thought by villagers to be both a phantom and also the lover of Count Rodolfo.

[B15] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The animals from this artist's Vision of St. Eustace were so realistic they were thought to be Durer's for years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pisanello [or Antonio di Puccio Pisano; or Antonio di Puccio da Cereto; or Vittore Pisano]):
    Name this artist, who developed medals as a form for portraying many luminaries who employed him, such as John VIII Palaiologos. His other paintings of royalty include Portrait of a Princess of the House of Este.
  Part 2 (ans: Gothic style/architecture):
    Pisanello is considered one of the last artists in the courtly "International" variety of this style from the late 15th century. Cathedrals built in this artistic style include Notre Dame de Paris.
  Part 3 (ans: Bellini [Gentile Bellini and Giovanni Bellini]):
    An artist with this surname served as the official portraitist of the doges of Venice and was even employed at one point by Mehmed II. That artist's brother made paintings like the San Zaccaria Altarpiece and The Feast of the Gods, which his student Titian finished.

[B16] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted a man leaving a shell in his canvas Falsehood, which joins Perseverance, Fortune, and Prudence in his series of Four Allegories. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Bellini):
    Name this artist who painted a "sacred conversation" consisting of an angel sitting on a step and playing the viol, and four saints arranged symmetrically around the Madonna and Child in his San Zaccaria Altarpiece. Dosso Dossi and Titian aided this man in painting The Feast of the Gods.
  Part 2 (ans: Venice [or Venezia]):
    Giovanni Bellini is considered the founder of the light-and-color focused school of art that emerged during the Renaissance in this city, where Titian and Tintoretto had their workshops.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Francis in Ecstasy):
    In this painting by Bellini, a skull sits on a reading table separated by tree-like cell bars from the title man, who gazes skyward with his mouth open and stigmata displayed while a donkey and Heavenly Jerusalem can be seen in the distance.

[B17] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A shipwrecked man named Gualtiero kills Ernesto in a duel, out of love for Imogene, in this composer's opera Il pirata. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vincenzo Bellini):
    Name this Italian bel canto composer who wrote the aria "Casta Diva" for the title druid priestess in his opera Norma.
  Part 2 (ans: I puritani [or The Puritans]):
    This Bellini opera features a mind-boggling high F for tenor in its ensemble number, "Credeasi, misera". It concerns Elvira's love for the Royalist lord Arturo.
  Part 3 (ans: (Dame) Joan (Alston) Sutherland):
    This Australian bel canto soprano, nicknamed "La Stupenda", was the prime 20th-century interpreter of Bellini, besides Maria Callas. She made many recordings conducted by her husband Richard Bonynge.

[B18] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following on Venetian painting, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Titian [or Tiziano Vecellio]):
    This Venetian painter created the Pesaro Madonna for the Frari Basilica. He painted a small dog on a bed with a reclining nude in his Venus of Urbino.
  Part 2 (ans: Bellini):
    Titian finished the Feast of the Gods created by his teacher Giovanni, who belonged to this Venetian artistic family. Its patriarch Jacopo studied with Gentile da Fabriano.
  Part 3 (ans: Oriental rugs [or an Oriental carpet]):
    Venetian artist Lorenzo Lotto names a type of these artistic items of non-European origin that he was fond of depicting. Hans Holbein the Younger used ones with lozenge and octagonal designs in many of his portraits.

[B19] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One artist with this surname included the words "Hail Mother, Queen of the World" on the halo of Mary in his Madonna of Humility with Donor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bellini):
    Identify this family of artists, whose most accomplished member painted the portrait of Leonardo Loredan, the San Giobbe Altarpiece, and a work now in the Frick collection in New York titled Saint Francis in Ecstasy.
  Part 2 (ans: Venice [or Venezia; or Venexia; or Venetia]):
    The Bellini family hailed from this city, whose Grand Canal was depicted in multiple vedute by Canaletto.
  Part 3 (ans: The Flagellation of Christ [or Christ's Flagellation]):
    Christ is hidden between the arches of a building rendered in stark Albertian perspective in a Jacopo Bellini drawing of this scene. Artists such as William-Adolphe Bouguereau and Caravaggio created versions of this scene where the central figure is bound to a column.

[B20] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's brother was court painter to Mehmed II and his father Jacopo painted a life-sized Crucifixion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Bellini [prompt on Bellini; prompt on G. Bellini]):
    Name this Italian Renaissance painter who depicted a satyr with a vase on his head in Feast of the Gods, which was completed by his pupil Titian. He shares his surname with the opera composer of La sonnambula and Norma.
  Part 2 (ans: St. Francis of Assisi):
    Giovanni Bellini's 1480 painting of this man shows him "in ecstasy." This patron saint of animals is often depicted receiving the stigmata and is almost always shown in a habit.
  Part 3 (ans: Castelfranco Madonna [or Madonna and Child Between St. Francis and St. Nicasius]):
    Giovanni Bellini's San Giobbe Altarpiece may have influenced this 1505 work by Giorgione, which shows the Virgin Mary sitting on a throne between St. Francis and an armored St. Nicasius, who stand on a checkered floor.

[B21] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This event is shown on a pediment sculpted by Francis Bird, and in a painting with heavy tenebrism where the orange-clad subject is on his back, arms raised, seemingly about to be stepped on by a horse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the conversion of St. Paul on the road to Damascus [or obvious equivalents; accept Saul for "Paul"]):
    Identify this event from Christian tradition.
  Part 2 (ans: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio):
    Two paintings of the conversion of St. Paul, including the one described previously, were by this late Renaissance painter of Bacchus and The Calling of St. Matthew.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Bellini [prompt on Bellini; prompt on G. Bellini]):
    A dark-skinned man in a turban on a rearing horse and a man who is covering his face so that only his furry red hat is visible appear in this painter's version of the scene. A skull sits atop a lectern in front of a cave in his St. Francis in Ecstasy.
