=== STOCK CLUES: Bartok ===
Tossup questions: 17 found, 97 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 41 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: string quartets by Bela Bartok [accept Bartok Bela in place of "Bela Bartok"] (Metamorphoses nocturnes is Ligeti's first string quartet.)
  - Note to players: Composer and genre required.
  - The third and fourth of these works heavily inspired a different composer's piece Metamorphoses nocturnes to the extent that it was dubbed as the next of these works. [PWR]
  - One of these works uses the time signature "four plus two plus three" in its scherzo  and "three plus two plus two plus three" in its trio, which its composer borrowed from Bulgarian aksak. [PWR]
  - The first of these works opens with a Lento fugue that its composer referred to as (*) "funeral dirge" in a letter to Stefi Geyer.
  - The last of these chamber works has all four movements beginning with a passage marked Mesto and does not follow the "arch form" used in its composer's previous works in the genre.
  - A movement in the fourth of these works is performed entirely in its composer's namesake "snap pizzicato".
  - For 10 points, name these chamber works for four performers by the Hungarian composer of the Concerto for Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok] (The first line refers to Out of Doors.)
  - In a piano piece by this composer, increasing rhythmic divisions build into a rapid quintuplet ostinato to depict a chase. [PWR]
  - That piece by this composer opens with ultra-low clusters imitating "Drums and Pipes." The last seventeen measures of this composer's third piano concerto were finished along with his viola concerto by his student Tibor Serly. [PWR]
  - This composer's slow movements often employ atmospheric imitations of natural sound in a (*) "night music" style.
  - An "interrupted intermezzo" appears in a piece by this composer whose second movement assigns different intervals to pairs of instruments.
  - This "father of ethnomusicology" used an Edison machine to collect field recordings with his compatriot Zoltan Kodaly.
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of a Concerto for Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok] (The quote in the first line is from Zoltan Kodaly.)
  - According to a compatriot, this composer marked a "return to life" by composing a chamber piece whose "funeral dirge" first movement references his unrequited love for the violinist Stefi Geyer.
  - This composer included a "recruiting dance" and a slow movement titled "relaxation" in his Contrasts for clarinet trio, written for Benny Goodman.
  - Aksak time signatures like 4+3+2 over 8 feature in a string quartet by this composer that characteristically uses an arch form.
  - This composer used the expression marking mesto in each movement of his sixth and final string quartet.
  - This composer quoted Shostakovich's Leningrad Symphony in the intermezzo interrotto fourth movement of a work that includes a "Game of Pairs." For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of Concerto for Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok [or Bartok Bela; or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok or Bartok Bela Viktor Janos]
  - In a five-part piano collection by this composer, the Lento fourth piece is written with three staves as follows: the lower two staves are interspersed with appoggiaturated chromatic tone clusters, and the highest staff intermittently slips in and out of the C-sharp Dorian mode. [PWR]
  - The slow movement of this composer's Piano Sonata features a handful of notes below A0 , a standard piano's lowest note.
  - This composer's Piano Concerto No. 1 begins with timpani beats over the soloist's low (*) B-naturals, after which a menacing brass fanfare enters.
  - This composer wrote all of those pieces in 1926, his "piano year." Ferocious performances of this composer's music have led Yefim Bronfman and Rui Urayama to bleed all over the keyboard.
  - This composer wrote Allegro barbaro and Out of Doors.
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian ethnomusicologist who developed a style of spooky "night music." [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: pianists [or piano players; accept prepared piano players; prompt on musicians] (The first two lines refer to Crumb's Makrokosmos. The third line refers to Bartok's Mikrokosmos.)
  - One of these performers whistles the hymn "Will There Be Any Stars In My Crown?" in the Night-Spell I  movement of a 12-movement suite.
  - One of these performers shouts, "Chri-ste!"  in a Crucifixus movement literally shaped like a cross, part of a zodiac-inspired piece by George Crumb.
  - Square note heads indicate that these performers should play harmonics in a set of 153 increasingly hard pieces by Bela Bartok.
  - Before playing Sonatas and Interludes, these performers use screws, bolts, and rubber chunks to "prepare" their instrument.
  - One of these performers, David Tudor, barely interacted with his instrument at the premiere of John Cage's 4'33" .
  - For 10 points, name these performers who play a common keyboard instrument with 88 keys. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: string quartets of Bela (Viktor Janos) Bartok [both parts required; prompt on partial answer]
  - Note to players: Composer and genre required.
  - In the third of these pieces, the last cello chord is a quadruple stop in which each string plays a half-step higher than open.
  - The second movement of the second of these works opens with diminished fifth alternations of F and B, followed by the ascending sixteenth notes "E, F, A, B-flat." The last two of these works, which are not by a member of the Second Viennese School, were premiered by an ensemble led by Rudolf Kolisch.
  - The scherzo of the fifth of these works is in (4+3+2)/8  time, and was influenced by Bulgarian folk music.
  - Each movement of the last of these works has an introduction marked "Mesto." The extensive use of "snap pizzicato" in the finale of the fourth of these led that technique to be renamed for their composer.
  - For 10 points, name these chamber works, the sixth and last of which was completed two years before their composer's 1943 Concerto for Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Viktor Janos Bartok
  - Recordings made by this composer are re-interpreted on a 2020 album by Lucian Ban, John Surman, and Mat Maneri. [PWR]
  - An oft-orchestrated six-movement piano suite by this composer begins with two movements depicting "stick" and "sash" dances. [PWR]
  - This composer's recordings of "rain-begging" songs in Turkey are among those he later brought to Columbia University as a professor. [PWR]
  - The first movement of this composer's clarinet-piano-violin trio Contrasts is a (*) verbunkos , a dance which he determined was Romani in origin. [PWR]
  - This composer of Romanian Folk Dances inserted his characteristic "night music" into several of his peasant dances, and analyzed his country's folk songs with his colleague Zoltan Kodaly .
  - For 10 points, name this composer who added Hungarian tunes to his Concerto for Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]
  - Yvonne Loriod  only took eight days to learn a concerto by this composer that Andras Schiff described as "finger-breaking" and "the single most difficult piece" he's played.
  - This composer died before orchestrating the end of his Third Piano Concerto, which uses a technique he termed "polymodal chromaticism." This composer also left sketches of a concerto for William Primrose that was completed by his student Tibor Serly.
  - The second movement of a piece by this composer opens with a drum played without snares, followed by the bassoons playing a jaunty melody a minor sixth apart.
  - This composer's second piano concerto exemplifies his "arch form," and its slow movement is in his "night music" style.
  - The second movement of a piece by this composer is a "Game of Pairs." For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of a Concerto for Orchestra and the opera Duke Bluebeard's Castle. [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok [Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]
  - The left hand repeats the chord "D G-sharp A" in quick eighth notes to open this composer's piano piece "Ostinato." This composer wrote a very short Opus 14 piano suite, and in another suite from his "piano year" of 1926, a run of chromatic grace notes up to the repeated semitone "D E-flat" represents the unka frog.
  - "Parallel Motion" and various "Unison Melodies" appear in the first book of a collection of piano pieces by this composer, which he dedicated to his son Peter.
  - The fourth movement of this composer's Out of Doors exemplifies his "night music" style.
  - He wrote "Six Dances in Bulgarian Rhythm" to cap off 153 pieces of increasing difficulty called Mikrokosmos.
  - For 10 points, name this composer whose Allegro barbaro uses scales from his native Hungary. [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela (Viktor Janos) Bartok
  - The fast part of a 9-8 time first movement by this composer begins with the timpani playing alternating Cs and F-sharps, followed by three syncopated, quarter-note C major chords. [PWR]
  - This composer's second piano concerto opens with the soloist playing a quick scale up to a trill that's sustained under a trumpet fanfare.
  - His first piano concerto begins with low Bs pounded out by the timpani and then by the soloist, horns, and trombones, at the bottom of their ranges. [PWR]
  - In a book on this composer's music by Elliott Antokoletz, the opening of his third piano (*) concerto is analyzed as a mixture of E-Mixolydian and E-Dorian modes.
  - He included an "Andante religioso" in his third piano concerto, which he wrote alongside his unfinished viola concerto while dying of leukemia.
  - This composer's notoriously difficult second piano concerto is built in an "arch form," and his Sonata for Two Pianos and Percussion uses his "night music" style.
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of a Concerto for Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: string quartets by Bela Bartok [prompt on partial answers]
  - Composer and type of piece required.
  - Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge commissioned the fifth of these pieces, whose Allegro vivace finale is interrupted by two instruments laconically playing the same melody a semitone apart, in A and B-flat.
  - That piece's unpaired central movement is a scherzo featuring a 4-plus-2-plus-3 rhythm marked "alla bulgarese." All four movements of the last of these pieces have a slow Mesto introduction.
  - The fourth of these pieces uses the "arch form" favored by its composer, and its fourth movement makes heavy use of its composer's namesake snap pizzicato.
  - That piece was first performed in 1929 in Budapest.
  - For 10 points, identify these six chamber pieces by the Hungarian composer of Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta and Concerto for Orchestra. [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: viola [accept (Shostakovich's) Viola Sonata or (Shostakovich's) Sonata for Viola and Piano or (Bartok's) Viola Concerto or (Walton's) Viola Concerto]
  - In his sonata for this instrument, Dmitri Shostakovich subtitled the final movement adagio "in the memory of Beethoven" and quoted the Moonlight Sonata; that sonata for this instrument was Shostakovich's final composition.
  - A concerto for this instrument has a version completed by the composer's son Peter, though the standard version was edited by Tibor Serly.
  - A William Walton concerto for this instrument, dedicated "to Christabel," was commissioned by Lionel Tertis.
  - A piece for this instrument and orchestra contains a movement called "Orgy of the Brigands" and was written at the request of Niccolo Paganini.
  - The soloist in Harold in Italy plays, for 10 points, what alto-clef instrument that forms a string quartet with two violins and a cello? [GIVE]

[T13] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok
  - In an opera by this composer, the minor second interval is known as the "blood motif".
  - There is confusion as to whether the penultimate movement of one of his works is parodying Franz Lehar's The Merry Widow or Shostakovich's invasion theme from the Leningrad Symphony.
  - This composer's dissonant "night music" is found in the slow movements of many of his compositions. 153 pieces for piano of increasing difficulty are set in his Mikrokosmos and he also wrote Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta.
  - For 10 points name this man who wrote Concerto for Orchestra, the Miraculous Mandarin and Bluebeard's Castle, a composer from Hungary. [GIVE]

[T14] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok's string quartets
  - George Perle explored the use of tetrachordal set classes to modulate in these works by this composer in a paper about their symmetric formations.
  - A movement in the first of these works begins with an accelerando as the viola and cello play in minor sixths, and then the violins play in major thirds.
  - Two violins play G-string glissandi a quarter-tone apart in the burletta section of one of these works.
  - The third is divided into "Prima Parte," "Seconda Parte," recapitulation of "Prima Parte," and a coda.
  - The "alla bulgarese" scherzo of the fifth of is in 1.+2+3)/8 time.
  - Each movement of the last of these works begins with a mesto theme, and some of these works are in the composer's characteristic arch form.
  - The Allegretto pizzicato movement of the fourth of them uses the composer's namesake snap pizzicato.
  - For 10 points, identify these six pieces for two violins, viola, and cello by a Hungarian composer. [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok
  - The horns play octaves to break from a piano and timpani duet at the beginning of this composer's first concerto. [PWR]
  - G-sharp and C-sharp are added to a pantomime chord that is modified throughout "The Chase," the final piece in a suite by this composer. [PWR]
  - A xylophone solo in one of his compositions exemplifies his style of "night music." This composer of Music for Strings, Percussion, and (*) Celesta used the "intermezzo interrotto" fourth movement of one piece to parody the "invasion theme" from the Leningrad Symphony; that work is better known for featuring sets of two instruments playing together in its second movement "Game of Pairs." This composer of Concerto for Orchestra arranged 153 piano pieces in order of difficulty for another collection. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of Duke Bluebeard's Castle and Mikrokosmos. [GIVE]

[T16] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Bartok [accept names in either order]
  - A character in one of this composer's ballets is represented by trombone glissandi playing the interval of a descending minor third.
  - The prologue of an opera by this composer opens with a motif drawn from the pentatonic collection "F#-A-B-C#-E" that's referred to as that opera's "Darkness" motif.
  - Elliot Antokoletz argued that the leitmotif for that opera's protagonist is a modal form of the theme this composer used to represent Stef Geyer in his frst Violin Concerto.
  - In one ballet by this com-poser, tramps force a girl to seduce the wealthy title character, who refuses to die afer being repeatedly stabbed and hanged from a lamp hook.
  - In his only opera the soprano encounters a lake of tears, a bloody torture chamber, and the title character's three other wives behind the seventh door of the title location.
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of The Mirac-ulous Mandarin and Duke Bluebeard's Castle. [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bela Viktor Janos Bartok
  - The first part of this composer's Two Portraits is the first movement of his first string quartet, which is dominated by the "love motif" inspired by the violinist Stefi Geyer.
  - One work by him has a second movement in which pairs of instruments play the same tune in parallel intervals, while another features two string groups on both sides of the stage and has a third movement that uses timpani glissandi and the xylophone to invoke this composer's (*) "night music" style. [PWR]
  - Yet another work by him begins with the "Six Unison Melodies" and is a collection of 153 piano pieces arranged by difficulty.
  - In addition to Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta and Mikrokosmos, this man is also composed an opera in which a woman discovers her husband's dead wives in the title location.
  - For 10 points, name this Hungarian composer of Duke Bluebeard's Castle. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece's "Intermezzo interrotto" fourth movement features a trombone glissando that is not possible on modern instruments since it was originally written for a bass trombone pitched in F. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Concerto for Orchestra [or Sz. 116; accept BUT DO NOT REVEAL Bela Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra, accept BUT DO NOT REVEAL BB 123]):
    Name this work, whose fourth movement also includes a quote from Franz Lehar's The Merry Widow as a parody of Shostakovich's earlier quote of the work in his Leningrad Symphony.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]):
    This composer drew inspiration from his country's folk music for his Concerto for Orchestra. This Hungarian composer and ethnomusicologist composed The Miraculous Mandarin and is known for his style of "night music."
  Part 3 (ans: playing with a mute [accept word forms like muted]):
    In works like Concerto for Orchestra and The Miraculous Mandarin, Bartok frequently called for this technique in his brass parts, denoted by the instruction con sordino.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece's "Intermezzo interrotto" mockingly quotes a song by Franz Lehar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bela Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra, Sz. 116, BB 123):
    Name this piece that includes a "Game of Pairs" and an "Elegia" that exemplifies its composer's "Night music" style.
  Part 2 (ans: Out of Doors, Sz. 81, BB 89 [or Szabadban; or Im Freien; or En Plein Air]):
    Bela Bartok more explicitly referenced his night music style in a movement called "The Night's Music" in this suite of piano pieces that opens with the movement "With Drums and Pipes."
  Part 3 (ans: viola):
    Aspects of the night music style can be found in the sketches for Bartok's unfinished concerto for this instrument. William Primrose played this string instrument, whose music is notated in alto clef.

[B3] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: According to Paul Griffiths, a composer from this country copied Webern's entire works by hand while living in Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag] (The two composers are Gyorgy Kurtag and Gyorgy Ligeti.)):
    Name this country that is also home to a composer who used "micropolyphony" in pieces like Atmospheres and wrote difficult piano etudes like "The Devil's Staircase."
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok):
    Gyorgy Ligeti's early works, such as Musica Ricercata, were heavily influenced by this earlier Hungarian composer, who used a "night music" style in his Concerto for Orchestra and Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta.
  Part 3 (ans: wind quintet [accept Six Bagatelles for Wind Quintet; prompt on quintet]):
    Ligeti later adapted movements from Musica Ricercata into six bagatelles for this chamber ensemble. Carl Nielsen wrote an Opus 43 piece for this ensemble that concludes with a theme and variations.

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A piece partly titled for this region uses a clarinet to imitate a folk woodwind called the tarogato, and draws upon a 19th-century collection of Roma music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Galanta [accept Dances of Galanta or Galantai tancok]):
    Name this region now in Slovakia, which partly titles that 1933 verbunkos("VAIR-boon-kosh"). That verbunkos named for this region is in the same genre as the composer's earlier piece named for Marosszek ("MAH-rosh-sake").
  Part 2 (ans: Zoltan Kodaly ("KOH-dye") [or Kodaly Zoltan]):
    Dances of Galanta and Dances of Marosszek are by this composer, who drew upon non-Roma folk music for his Peacock Variations.
  Part 3 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok; or Bartok Bela Viktor Janos]):
    Kodaly made many phonograph recordings of folk music alongside this fellow Hungarian composer and ethnomusicologist, who wrote Bluebeard's Castle and Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta.

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: While making his 1980 recording of the piece that this movement appears in, Georg Solti ("george SHOL-tee") discovered that the original metronome marking was quarter note = 94, noticeably faster than it's usually taken. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Game of the Pairs" [or "Presentation of the Pairs"; or "Game of the Couples"; or "Presentation of the Couples"; or Giuoco delle coppie; or Presentando le coppie]):
    Name this movement that begins with a rhythmic figure for solo side drum, followed by a melody in sixths for two bassoons above pizzicato accompaniment.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]):
    That "Game of Pairs" appears in the Concerto for Orchestra of this Hungarian composer and ethnomusicologist, who composed the opera Duke Bluebeard's Castle.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Hindemith):
    An earlier Concerto for Orchestra was written in 1925 by this German composer of eight concerto-like chamber pieces called Kammermusik ("KAH-mair-moo-ZEEK"). A game of sorts titles his contrapuntal Ludus Tonalis ("LOO-doos toh-NAH-leese").

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's First Piano Concerto begins with the soloist playing very low menacing B's, over which the timpani plays its own sequence of crescendoing B's. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]):
    Name this composer whose Second Piano Concerto's slow movement includes an outer Adagio for piano, muted strings, and timpani, which is interrupted by a dizzying Presto in which the winds join.
  Part 2 (ans: night [accept night music; accept nocturne; reject "darkness" or equivalents]):
    This phenomenon names a style of spooky ambient music in the slow sections of Bartok's piano concertos. John Field developed a Romantic genre titled for this period.
  Part 3 (ans: London Symphony Orchestra [or LSO; prompt on London]):
    Valery Gergiev directed this orchestra through 2015, including during Yefim Bronfman's bloody performance of Bartok's Third Piano Concerto. In 2023, this orchestra's then-music director Simon Rattle announced his sudden return to Germany.

[B7] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about specially-designed orchestral instruments, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Wagner [or Wilhelm Richard Wagner] (Wagner commissioned the Wagner tuba for his Ring Cycle.)):
    Bruckner's late symphonies use a "tuba" that this composer designed to bridge an acoustic gap between the French horns and trombones. Bruckner first heard this composer's tuba in its debut at the first Bayreuth festival.
  Part 2 (ans: octobass [or octobasse]):
    Charles Gounod's St. Cecilia Mass is the only piece that calls for this instrument invented by Jean-Baptiste Vuillaume ("v'wee-YOHM"). The Montreal Symphony is the only ensemble that owns one of these instruments, which are lever-operated due to their size.
  Part 3 (ans: Bela Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra (Bartok wrote that bass trombone part for an F bass trombone. Modern-day bass trombonists play B-flat bass trombones, on which that glissando is unplayable.)):
    Many performances of this piece use a custom bass trombone with a second slide to play a B-F glissando in its fourth movement. A third bassoon adds a running countermelody to the recapitulation of an earlier movement in this piece that is based on Croatian part-singing.

[B8] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This city's namesake orchestra - one of the American "Big Five" - cultivated a lush, velvety string sound under the Hungarian-born conductor Eugene Ormandy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philadelphia):
    Name this city, where Ormandy directed that orchestra from 1938 to 1980 after taking over from Leopold Stokowski.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok [accept names in either order]):
    Ormandy led the Philadelphia Orchestra in the posthumous premiere of the third piano concerto by this fellow Hungarian. This composer also wrote The Miraculous Mandarin and a Concerto for Orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: Minneapolis [reject "St. Paul"] (In Ormandy's time the orchestra was called the Minneapolis Symphony; it is now the Minnesota Orchestra.)):
    Prior to his appointment in Philadelphia, Ormandy directed the main orchestra in this other American city. In 2022, Osmo Vanska (VEN-skeh) stepped down as music director of that same orchestra in this city after nearly 20 years at the helm, which were interrupted by a lockout from 2012 to 2014.

[B9] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The fourth volume of this set of pieces, which contains four pieces titled after stars, is titled Celestial Mechanics. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Makrokosmos):
    Name this set of pieces for amplified piano. Its third volume, which adds a second piano and percussion, is titled Music for a Summer Evening.
  Part 2 (ans: Black Angels [or Black Angels (Thirteen Images from the Dark Land)]):
    This chamber piece by the composer of Makrokosmos, George Crumb, begins with a section titled "Threnody I: Night of the Electric Insects." The Vietnam War inspired this piece that is written for "electric string quartet."
  Part 3 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok or Bartok Bela Viktor Janos]):
    Crumb's Makrokosmos was inspired by the Mikrokosmos of this Hungarian composer and ethnomusicologist.

[B10] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the 20th-century musical tradition of writing a concerto for orchestra, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]):
    Arguably the best-known Concerto for Orchestra was written by this Hungarian composer of Duke Bluebeard's Castle and Music for Strings, Percussion and Celesta.
  Part 2 (ans: timpani [or kettledrums; prompt on drums]):
    Witold Lutoslawski's ("VEE-told loo-toh-SWAFF-skee's") Concerto for Orchestra begins with loud repeating notes from one of these instruments. Two players of these instruments "duel" in the finale of Carl Nielsen's "Inextinguishable" Symphony.
  Part 3 (ans: Joan Tower):
    This composer's 1991 Concerto for Orchestra was written in the middle of a series of six compositions by this composer dedicated to conductor Marin Alsop ("MAIR-in AL-sop"), her Fanfares for the Uncommon Woman.

[B11] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a 1971 essay on "Tendencies in Modern Music" presented in Moscow, a composer defined this term using the juxtaposing and intersecting of contrasting musical idioms within Henri Pousseur's Votre Faust. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: polystylism [or word forms, like polystyle or polystylistics]):
    Give this term referring to the internal anachronism within the works of a modern composer of many concerti grossi. A Gidon Kremer concert tour publicized this paradigm via its usage in its creator's many controversial cadenzas to Beethoven's Violin Concerto.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok (That is his Concerto for Orchestra.)):
    Schnittke's first cadenza to the Beethoven Concerto includes quotations from this man's two violin concerti. A different concerto by him quotes Shostakovich's "invasion theme" in its fourth movement "intermezzo interrotto."
  Part 3 (ans: Arnold Schoenberg):
    Schnittke's first cadenza also quotes the twelve-note tone row used in Alban Berg's own violin concerto. Berg was a student of this Austrian serialist, the founder of the Second Viennese School.

[B12] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's percussive piano sonata, as well as his Out of Doors, Nine Little Piano Pieces, and first piano concerto, were all written in his "piano year" of 1926. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bartok Bela]):
    Name this composer whose other piano works include Allegro barbaro and the six-volume Mikrokosmos.
  Part 2 (ans: perfect fifths [accept circle of fifths]):
    Analyzing Bartok's music inspired Erno Lendvai's "axis system," which can assign functions to keys via axes drawn on a circular pitch space ascending by this perfect interval clockwise, and by fourths counterclockwise.
  Part 3 (ans: arch form):
    Bartok's second piano concerto, like his fourth and fifth string quartets, uses this form exemplified by sections ordered "ABCBA." Ternary form also exemplifies this symmetric form, named after an architectural element.

[B13] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A short piece titled for this composer's distinctive style of slow music, the fourth movement from his piano suite Out of Doors, is an early example of it because of its use of soft, mysterious dissonances. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bela Bartok):
    Name this composer who used the term "night music" to describe the musical textures of many of his slow movements, which attempt to evoke quiet sounds from nature.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Mahler):
    This composer's seventh symphony, titled "Song of the Night," features two middle movements also titled "Night Music." This Austrian composer's other symphonies include ones nicknamed "Titan" and "Resurrection."
  Part 3 (ans: Luigi Dallapiccola):
    This composer's 1954 Little Night Music is one of his most popular orchestral works along with his 1932 Partita, which ends with the lullaby "Naenia B.M.V." This Italian serialist turned his choral work Songs of Imprisonment into the 1948 opera The Prisoner.

[B14] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Vittorio Monti's most famous piece is based on music from this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag; accept Hungarian Dances or UngarischeTanze] (Monti's piece is a csardas.)):
    Name this country that inspired a set of pieces for piano duet by Johannes Brahms. One genre of music from this country is divided into slow lassan[LAH-shan] and fast friska[FRISH-kuh] sections.
  Part 2 (ans: The Damnation of Faust [or La Damnation de Faust; do not accept or prompt on partial answer] (by Hector Berlioz)):
    A "Hungarian March" appears in this "dramatic legend" for soloists, chorus, and orchestra. This work also includes a "Minuet of the Will-o'-the-Wisps" and a "Dance of the Sylphs."
  Part 3 (ans: Bela (Viktor Janos) Bartok [accept in either order]):
    Although Monti, Brahms, and Berlioz were not Hungarian, this composer was. This twentieth-century composer wrote a Concerto for Orchestra as well as Music for Strings, Percussion, and Celesta.

[B15] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The "Stick Dance" recorded by two gypsy fiddlers and the popular "Braul" ("brih-ool") or "Sash Dance" are the first two of the authentic tunes accompanied by rich harmonies in this suite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Romanian Folk Dances [or Six Romanian Folk Dances; or Rumanian Folk Dances; or Roman nepi tancok; or Rumanische Volkstanze; prompt on partial answer] (by Bela Bartok)):
    Name this piano suite of 6 short movements in a variety of modes based directly on 7 melodies collected near the Hungarian border with Transylvania. It was composed by a pioneering ethnomusicologist during World War I.
  Part 2 (ans: Lydian mode [do not accept or prompt on "Mixolydian"]):
    Like Bartok's Rhapsody No. 1, the final dance, "Maruntel" ("muh-roont-SELL"), mixes this "sharpest" mode with another mode of a similar name. This mode is built by raising the fourth degree of a major scale or taking 7 white keys starting from F.
  Part 3 (ans: melodic minor [accept G melodic minor; prompt on minor]):
    The "acoustic scale," named for its similarity to the overtone series, mixes Lydian and Mixolydian qualities, and is the fourth mode of this scale. When this type of minor scale ascends from G, the set of accidentals is B-flat, E-natural, and F-sharp.

[B16] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The fourth and fifth of this composer's quartets uses his typical arch form, while his sixth and final quartet starts each movement with a slow Mesto melody. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bartok Bela Viktor Janos]):
    Name this composer, who also wrote the increasingly difficult Mikrokosmos.
  Part 2 (ans: Gyorgy Ligeti [or Ligeti Gyorgy Sandor]):
    This composer's first string quartet was heavily inspired by the Bartok quartets, but his later works were focused more on his theory of micropolyphony, such as in his Lontano.
  Part 3 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag]):
    Both Bartok and Ligeti are from this country. A series of "Rhapsodies" based on folk tunes in this country was written by its country's most famous composer, Franz Liszt.

[B17] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A female composer from this country wrote Metacosmos, a microtonal symphonic poem meant to evoke a black hole. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iceland [or Island] (The film composer is Johann Johannsson.)):
    Name this country also home to a film composer who scored Mandy, Arrival, and The Theory of Everything before his 2018 death.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor JanosBartok]):
    The title of Icelandic composer Anna Thorvaldsdottir's Metacosmos might allude to Mikrokosmos, a series of piano pieces by this Hungarian composer who also wrote a Concerto for Orchestra.
  Part 3 (ans: George Crumb [or George Henry Jr. Crumb]):
    Bartok's Mikrokosmos and the constellations of the zodiac inspired Makrokosmos, a collection of piano pieces by this American composer who interpolated Schubert's Death and the Maiden into his Black Angels string quartet.

[B18] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Of the one-thousand-plus instruments that Antonio Stradivari made, it is estimated that over 900 of them were these instruments. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: violins):
    Name this highest-pitched and most common string instrument in a standard orchestra.
  Part 2 (ans: pizzicato [accept Bartok pizzicato or snap pizzicato; prompt on pizz]):
    Violin players often utilize this technique of plucking the violin's strings. Bela Bartok pioneered and names a version of this technique that is so percussive, it produces a "snap" sound.
  Part 3 (ans: sautille ("so-tee-YAY") stroke):
    The player must naturally allow the bow to bounce from the violin's strings in this type of stroke that is often confused with the spiccato stroke.

[B19] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece opens with the piano introducing and the soloist arpeggiating a gentle, rocking E dominant ninth chord, a cyclic motif that returns in its 3rd and 4th movements, a recitative-fantasia and a canon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Violin Sonata in A major by Cesar Franck ("say-zar fronk") [or Franck's Sonata for Violin and Piano; prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this chamber piece in A major composed as wedding present for Eugene Ysaye ("oo-ZHEN ee-ZYE"), who premiered it from memory in a dark art museum in Brussels in 1886. A cello version of it is by Jules Delsart.
  Part 2 (ans: Claude Debussy):
    A 1910 Budapest visit influenced this composer's last piece, a short 1917 violin sonata in a projected set of six sonatas he signed "musicien francais" ("myoo-zeese-YANN fron-SAY"), including one for flute, viola, and harp. A cyclic motif unifies his String Quartet in G minor influenced by Grieg and premiered by the Ysaye Quartet.
  Part 3 (ans: Bela Bartok):
    This composer wrote a solo violin sonata with optional quarter tones for Yehudi Menuhin ("yeh-HOO-dee MEN-yoo-in") a year after Concerto for Orchestra and a year before his death. This Hungarian ethnomusicologist wrote two violin sonatas and six influential, modern string quartets.

[B20] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the death scene from this stage work, an offstage women's chorus sings a wordless minor third. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Miraculous Mandarin [or A csodalotos mandarin; or Der wunderbare Mandarin]):
    Name this one-act pantomime ballet in which thieves force a girl to attract passing men by dancing 'lockspiels' or 'decoy dances.' The title character proves impossible for the thieves to kill until the girl accepts his love.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]):
    This 20th-century Hungarian composer wrote The Miraculous Mandarin and a Concerto for Orchestra. In his fourth string quartet, he instructed players to snap the strings against the fingerboard.
  Part 3 (ans: Boston [accept Boston Symphony Orchestra or Boston Pops Orchestra]):
    Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra was premiered by this city's Symphony Orchestra, whose director Sergei Koussevitzky had commissioned the piece. That orchestra hosts a summer music festival at Tanglewood, and this city's Pops Orchestra was conducted by Arthur Fiedler for many years.

[B21] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Olivier Messiaen dubbed this collection "Mode 2." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: octatonic scale):
    Name this pitch collection that can be constructed as two adjacent diminished seventh chords. It includes four each of major and minor triads at even intervals of a minor third.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela (Viktor Janos) Bartok):
    This composer frequently used octatonic and hexatonic collections. He was also one of the first people to systematically use audio recording to capture folksong.
  Part 3 (ans: violins [or fiddles]):
    One of Bartok's most thoroughly octatonic pieces is "Harvest Song," a piece for two of these high string instruments. From lowest to highest, this instrument is tuned "G-D-A-E."

[B22] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Swiss musicologist Marcel Cellier ("sell-YAY") brought attention to the "open-throated" singing styles of folk music from this country, which often has asymmetrical time signatures. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bulgaria [or Republic of Bulgaria; or Kingdom of Bulgaria]):
    Name this country whose State Television Female Vocal Choir worked with Cellier on that project. Six dances written in rhythms from this country appear at the end of Volume VI ("six") of Mikrokosmos.
  Part 2 (ans: Bela Bartok [accept names in either order]):
    This Hungarian composer and pioneering musicologist created Mikrokosmos, Romanian Folk Dances, and Concerto for Orchestra, which uses his characteristic eerie "night music" style.
  Part 3 (ans: Zoltan Kodaly ("KOH-dye") [accept names in either order]):
    This Hungarian composed a Concerto for Orchestra partially inspired by the Hungarian folk material that he collected in six volumes. In 1945, Hungary's government implemented the pedagogical method named for this composer of Hary Janos ("HA-ree YAH-nohsh").

[B23] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Nikos Kazantzakis's character Zorba plays a santuri, which is a Greek word for this instrument. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cimbalom [prompt on hammered dulcimer]):
    Give the common English name for this instrument from the dulcimer family, used in many folk music genres from Central Europe. It is played using two hammers.
  Part 2 (ans: Yiddish):
    Cimbaloms are common in klezmer bands, which usually sing songs in this German-derived language spoken by many Ashkenazi Jews.
  Part 3 (ans: Bela Bartok):
    This composer included a cimbalom in an arrangement of his Rhapsody No. 1 for violin and orchestra. As a pioneering ethnomusicologist, this frequent user of "night music" collected much music from Eastern Europe, such as that used in his six Romanian Folk Dances.

[B24] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In Peter Maxwell Davies's Eight Songs for a Mad King, this type of cast is accompanied by an onstage Pierrot ensemble. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: there is only one role [or it is a monodrama; or obvious equivalents]):
    Identify this unusual casting decision employed in the operas Erwartung and La voix humaine.
  Part 2 (ans: Francis Poulenc [or Francis Jean Marcel Poulenc]):
    La voix humaine is an opera by this composer. Another of his operas ends with the execution of the title convent of nuns during the French Revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]):
    This Hungarian composer's opera Duke Bluebeard's Castle features a much larger cast of two roles: the title character and his new wife Judith.

[B25] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's Violin Concerto No. 2 begins with the harp playing a soft chord eight times, and includes a second movement in theme-and-variations form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bela Bartok [or Bela Viktor Janos Bartok]):
    Name this composer whose Piano Concerto No. 3 includes a chorale-like "Adagio religioso" as its central movement. The third movement of his Piano Concerto No. 2 begins with a loud bass drum THWACK.
  Part 2 (ans: pizzicato [or snap pizzicato; or Bartok pizzicato]):
    Bartok's String Quartet No. 4 calls for his namesake "snap" variety of this technique, in which the strings are plucked rather than bowed.
  Part 3 (ans: Concerto for Orchestra):
    Bassoons open the "Game of Pairs" movement of this Bartok piece, whose paradoxical title originates from his desire to showcase each instrument of the title ensemble.
