=== STOCK CLUES: Anthony Trollope ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 34 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 18 found, 52 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Anthony Trollope (the first line describes The Last Chronicle of Barset)
  - This author set out to embody Cicero's concept of honestum in the style employed in a novel whose plot concerns the cashing of a mysterious twenty-pound cheque.
  - A disabled but overly flirtatious woman created by this author is carried about her house on a sofa. [PWR]
  - Despite the lawyer Abraham Haphazard's support, another of this author's characters resigns his post while under fire from the paper The (*) Jupiter.
  - The Low Church Bishop Proudie takes up Dr.
  - Grantly's vacant seat in a novel by this author in which the Bishop vetoes the reappointment of Septimus Harding as operator of Hiram's Hospital.
  - This author's novel The Warden began a six-novel series whose second entry is named for a cathedral town's Towers.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Chronicles of Barsetshire series. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Anthony Trollope
  - In a novel by this author, a penniless man nicknamed "Apollo" ironically receives a large raise only after breaking up with his rural fiancee to pursue the wealthy urbanite Alexandrina.
  - In that novel by this author, Lily Dale is courted by Adolphus Crosbie while living in the title dower house with her mother.
  - In this author's longest novel, Augustus Melmotte devises a speculation scheme based on a railroad in Utah.
  - The surgeon John Bold challenges the charitable income going to a cathedral precentor created by this author named Septimus Harding.
  - A series of six novels set in a county created by this author include The Small House at Allington and The Warden.
  - For 10 points, name this prolific Victorian novelist who wrote The Way We Live Now and the Chronicles of Barsetshire. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Trollope [accept Anthony Trollope; accept Frances "Fanny" Milton Trollope; accept Frances Milton, as that is the maiden name of Frances Trollope]
  - In a novel by an author with this surname, a widow-turned-con-artist avoids arrest and escapes back to England during a slave revolt. [PWR]
  - In a novel by a different author with this surname, a gun-toting American who allegedly fought a duel with her ex-husband travels to England to force a promised marriage to a gentleman. [PWR]
  - An author with this surname wrote the Widow Barnaby Trilogy and targeted tobacco-spitting in the controversial travelogue Domestic Manners of the Americans. [PWR]
  - Another author with this surname created a sleazy man from Frisco named Hamilton K. [PWR]
  - Fisker, who comes to England to fund a new (+) railway from Salt Lake City to Veracruz. [PWR]
  - In a very long satire by an author with this surname, a speculative bubble engineered by Augustus Melmotte crashes the London stock exchange. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author who wrote (*) The Way We Live Now, as well as The Chronicles of Barsetshire. [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Anthony Trollope
  - In one work by this person, a woman rejects two suitors by working the words "Old Maid" into her new dress: that story by this person is Never, Never, - Never, Never.
  - In a novel by this person, Ferdinand Lopez withdraws his parliamentary candidacy against Arthur Fletcher after being encouraged to stand by the wife of the title figure.
  - In another novel by this man, Mr.
  - Slope falls from grace with Bishop Proudie's wife and is turned over in favour of Mr.
  - Arabin for the office of Dean of Barchester.
  - For ten points, The Palliser Novels and The Chronicles of Barsetshire were written by which prolific English novelist of the Victorian era. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Anthony Trollope (trawl-up)
  - A character created by this author plays an imaginary violoncello with his right hand when he becomes angry.
  - In a novel by this man, a caricature of the Times called The Jupiter launches a smear campaign under editor Tom Towers.
  - This author created the de Courcy family, a member of which is courted by Adolphus Crosbie in The Small House at Allington.
  - In another of his novels, Mrs.
  - Proudie blocks the reappointment of the director of Hiram's Hospital.
  - That novel of his begins with Archdeacon Grantly not succeeding his father as a bishop.
  - John Bold attacks the 800 pound income of Septimus Harding despite falling in love with Septimus's daughter, Eleanor, in his novel The Warden.
  - For 10 points, name this Victorian novelist who included Barchester Towers in his Barsetshire Chronicles. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Note to moderator: Read the answerline to the first part carefully. The schemes of one of these two ideological movements are undone at a garden party, when Signora Neroni reveals Obadiah Slope to be a two-timing sycophant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: High Church Anglicanism and Low Church Anglicanism [or High Church Anglicanism and Evangelicalism; or High Church Anglicanism and Evangelical Anglicanism; or High Anglicanism and Low Anglicanism; prompt on high and low]):
    Name these two real-life factions that are represented in an 1857 novel by Theophilus Grantly on one side and Mrs. Proudie and her husband on the other.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope ("TRAHL-up")):
    That war between High Church and Low Church factions occurs in Barchester Towers,the second entry in this Victorian author's Chronicles of Barsetshire series.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Carlyle (The novel is Sartor Resartus.)):
    In The Warden, the previous entry in the series, Trollope satirized this contemporary as Dr. Pessimist Anticant. This author wrote a novel about the fictional German scholar Diogenes Teufelsdrockh ("TOY-fulls-druck"), who studies the "philosophy of clothes."

[B2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A pair of robberies in this town is blamed on foreigners, causing its residents to suspect that the turban-wearing Signor Brunoni is a French spy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cranford):
    Name this town home to the gossip Miss Pole. A spinster in this town named Matty Jenkyns goes bankrupt and sells off her house to Miss Martha and the town carpenter Jem.
  Part 2 (ans: du Maurier [or George du Maurier; or Daphne du Maurier]):
    Elizabeth Gaskell's episodic novel Cranford grew in popularity thanks to the illustrations of George, a cartoonist with this surname. His granddaughter with this surname set her novel Rebecca in her native Cornwall.
  Part 3 (ans: Anthony Trollope (the series of novels is The Chronicles of Barsetshire.)):
    The use of George du Maurier's illustrations to boost sales of Cranford was inspired by J.E. Millais' illustrations for this author's Framley Parsonage, one of six books set in a fictional, highly clerical English county.

[B3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author was Keeper of the Robes to Queen Charlotte of Mecklenburg-Strelitz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fanny Burney [or Frances Burney; or Madame d'Arblay]):
    Name this author of The Wanderer and the sentimental novel Evelina.
  Part 2 (ans: Fanny Kemble [or Frances Anne Kemble]):
    This other British author with the first name "Fanny," who wrote the plays Francis the First and The Star of Seville, was better known as an actress. Her time in the US inspired her abolitionist Journal of a Residence on a Georgian Plantation in 1838-1839.
  Part 3 (ans: Trollope [accept Anthony Trollope; accept Fanny Trollope or Frances Milton Trollope]):
    An author named Fanny with this surname wrote the travel book Domestic Manners of the Americans; her son with this surname wrote the Chronicles of Barsetshire.

[B4] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's ignorant nature, like how he 'knew nothing of any... political question', prompted a flurry of articles in 2016 that compared this character's ascendancy to that of Donald Trump. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Augustus Melmotte [either underlined part acceptable]):
    Name this character. This character ends up poisoning himself by drinking inappropriate chemicals after his clerk Croll leaves him and his fraudulent scheming over a non-existent Utah railway is revealed.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    Melmotte is the antihero of The Way We Live Now, the longest novel by this Victorian author. He described the machinations of ecclesiastical politics in his Chronicles of Barsetshire.
  Part 3 (ans: Plantagenet Palliser [accept either part]):
    Trollope's other political novels include the six 'parliamentary novels', a series usually titled for this character, who becomes Prime Minister after inheriting the dukedom of Omnium.

[B5] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author exclaims "Let them weep! let them weep!" and describes children who are "binding up their hearts away from breaking, / With a cerement from the grave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett Browning or Elizabeth Barrett Moulton-Barrett; prompt on Browning]):
    Name this poet who criticized child labor conditions in the poem "The Cry of the Children." This poet also wrote the abolitionist dramatic monologue "The Runaway Slave at Pilgrim's Point."
  Part 2 (ans: William Blake):
    "A little black thing among the snow" cries "weep! 'weep!" in this poet's "The Chimney Sweeper" which is collected in his Songs of Innocence and of Experience.
  Part 3 (ans: Trollope [accept Frances Milton Trollope; accept Anthony Trollope]):
    An author with this surname wrote about a boy who escapes from an industrial mill in the novel Michael Armstrong, the Factory Boy. Another author with this surname wrote the Chronicles of Barsetshire series.

[B6] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The maidservant Rosanna Spearman drowns herself in quicksand after this object goes missing on the night of a birthday dinner. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Moonstone [or the diamond from The Moonstone or equivalents; prompt on answers indicating a diamond or precious stone]):
    Name this object inherited by Rachel Verinder, which is taken from the body of a disguised Godfrey Ablewhite by three ostensible jugglers.
  Part 2 (ans: India [or Bharat; accept A Passage to India]):
    Colonel Herncastle plunders the title diamond from this country in Wilkie Collins's novel The Moonstone. British authorities accuse Dr. Aziz of assaulting Adela in an E. M. Forster novel titled for A Passage to this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Anthony Trollope ("TRAW-lup")):
    Lizzie Greystock inherits a set of Indian gems in The Eustace Diamonds, the third novel in this author's "Palliser" series. This author wrote about the perceived moral bankruptcy of English society in The Way We Live Now.

[B7] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Hawthorne described a series of novels set in this county as being "as if some giant had hewn a great lump out of the earth and put it in a glass case." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barsetshire):
    Name this county, the setting of a novel in which Bishop Proudie takes an ecclesiastical seat that had been reserved for Archdeacon Grantly.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This author wrote the Chronicles of Barsetshire, whose best-known individual book is Barchester Towers. This 19th century author also wrote the six novel Palliser series.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Another recurring English setting is this author's fictional Wessex which appears in this author's novels Return of the Native and The Mayor of Casterbridge.

[B8] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The characters Doctor Pessimist Anticant and Mr. Popular Sentiment in this novel are supposedly parodies of Thomas Carlyle and Charles Dickens respectively. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Warden):
    This Bastershire-set novel centres on the conflict between Septimus Harding, holder of the titular office, and the young reformer John Bold. Bold enlists the help of the editor of The Jupiter and forces Harding to resign.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This writer of The Warden wrote forty-seven novels, including the sweeping satire The Way We Live Now. He also worked at the General Post Office for over thirty years before resigning to stand as the Liberal candidate for Beverley in Yorkshire.
  Part 3 (ans: The Eustace Diamonds):
    In this Trollope novel Lizzie Greystock looks for a new husband while trying to stop Mr. Camperdown from retrieving a family heirloom given to her by her late husband Sir Florian.

[B9] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's Palliser novels include the Eustace Diamonds, in which Miss Carbuncle desperately attempts to marry off Lucinda Roanoke. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    Name this Victorian novelist of Barchester Towers and Phineas Redux.
  Part 2 (ans: Guy de Maupassant):
    "The Diamond Necklace" is a short story by this French author of "Ball of Fat" and Bel Ami.
  Part 3 (ans: Sherlock Holmes):
    "The Crown Diamond" is an alternate version of the short story "The Adventure of the Mazarin Stone," which are both works following this title sleuth who lives at 221B Baker Street.

[B10] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Critic Kenneth Tynan's pejorative term for middlebrow mid-20th-century British drama, "the Loamshire play," refers to a fictional county that this author regularly used as a setting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Eliot [or Mary Anne Evans] (The novel is Felix Holt.)):
    Name this author of a "Loamshire novel" about an activist who accidentally kills a constable during a riot that breaks out on the day that his candidate, Harold Transome, loses a parliamentary election.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope (The novel is Barchester Towers.)):
    The chaplain Obadiah Slope delivers an unpopular sermon against chanting in church services near the start of the most popular of the six novels this author set in the fictional county of Barsetshire.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This author agglomerated several southwest English counties into the fictional area of Wessex, where he set novels like Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.

[B11] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Supposedly, John Cowper Powys would vigorously bang his head against these objects in order to expedite their function. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: mailboxes [or pillar boxes]):
    Name this objects that were first introduced to Great Britain in the 1850s by an author who observed their efficiency during a tour of Europe.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This was the author and postal worker who was responsible for introducing freestanding mailboxes to England. It is therefore unsurprising that many of his novels contain lengthy correspondences and letter-reading scenes, such as when Obadiah Slope writes a letter proposing to Eleanor Bold in Barchester Towers .

[B12] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Florence commits suicide by taking prussic acid because she assumes that her husband has discovered her affair with Edward Ashburnham. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Good Soldier):
    Name this Ford Madox Ford novel that begins with the line "This is the saddest story I have ever heard."
  Part 2 (ans: The Way We Live Now [by Anthony Trollope]):
    The main character of this novel, by a different author, commits suicide by swallowing prussic acid after the financial ruin of a railroad project between Salt Lake City and Veracruz.

[B13] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The citizens of the title city of this novel expect Archdeacon Grantly to succeed his late father as bishop, but instead Mr. Proudie gets the role. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barchester Towers):
    Identify this novel in which Mrs Bold slaps Mr Slope after he proposes.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    Barchester Towers is by this prolific author of The Eustace Diamonds and The Claverings.
  Part 3 (ans: The Chronicles of Barsetshire):
    Barchester Towers follows The Warden as the second in a series of novels by Trollope about this fictional county.

[B14] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's daughters debate whether he should retire to Crabtree Parva after widespread criticism by The Jupiter, while John Bold accuses this man of drawing an unfairly large salary, and only withdraws a lawsuit against him after falling in love with his daughter Eleanor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Septimus Harding [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this precentor of Barchester Cathedral whose role at Hiram's Hospital titles the novel The Warden.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    The Warden is the first novel in the "Chronicles of Barsetshire", a series by this author of Is He Popenjoy? who also wrote the Palliser novels.
  Part 3 (ans: Bishop Thomas Proudie 10):
    Septimus Harding's older daughter Susan marries Archdeacon Grantly, who inBarchester Towers leads the "High Church" faction against this unpopular bishop of Barchester and his wife Olivia.

[B15] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The first book of this cycle is narrated by a man later called Darley, who later falls in love with the wife of a wealthy Copt named Nassim. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alexandria Quartet):
    Name this four-novel cycle including Justine, Balthazar, Mountolive, and Clea.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    Another Englishman who wrote a long novel cycle was this author of Framley Parsonage and Barchester Towers, which he included in his Chronicles of Barsetshire.
  Part 3 (ans: William Makepeace Thackeray):
    An early supporter of Trollope was this other English author of The History of Henry Esmond and a "Novel without a hero," Vanity Fair.

[B16] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In his essays, William Gass has repeatedly praised this novel's sentence "A cow broke in (tomorrow morning) to my Uncle Toby's fortifications" as one of his favorite in all of English literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman):
    Name this digression-filled novel by Laurence Sterne, in which the title character narrates the circumstances surrounding his birth.
  Part 2 (ans: forceps):
    To his father's regret, Tristram Shandy's nose is crushed at birth when Dr. Slop uses this newly invented device during the operation.
  Part 3 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    In one of this author's novels, it is jokingly suggested that Dr. Slop might be an ancestor of Obadiah Slope. In that novel by him, Mrs. Proudie makes sure Septimus Harding is not re-appointed as warden of Hiram's Hospital.

[B17] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel centers on Lizzie Greystock, a fortune hunter who pursues Lord Fawn and Lord George Carruthers after the death of her husband Sir Florian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Eustace Diamonds):
    Name this novel in which Lizzie is disgraced after the theft of the title jewels on a necklace.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    The Eustace Diamonds is the third in this British author's six Parliamentary novels about the Palliser family. He also wrote Barchester Towers.
  Part 3 (ans: He Knew He Was Right):
    This massive novel by Trollope focuses on the suspicions of Louis Trevelyan, who travels to the Mandarin Islands and marries Sir Marmaduke's daughter Emily Rowley. Olivier Dimsdale starred in its BBC adaptation.

[B18] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Tom Towers writes influential pieces for The Jupiter in this novel, whose other characters include the Attorney General, Sir Abraham Haphazard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Warden):
    Identify this first novel of The Chronicles of Barsetshire which centers on Reverend Harding, who resigns the title position taking care of the old men at Hiram's Hospital.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This author wrote The Chronicles of Barsetshire, including Framley Parsonage and Barchester Towers. You may know this Victorian novelist for producing a voluminous amount of writings.
  Part 3 (ans: United States of America [accept obvious equivalents. That Trollope novel is The American Senator.]):
    In a different novel by Anthony Trollope, the incredulously named character of Elias Gotobed runs for office in this country. It is also the setting for much of Dickens's Martin Chuzzlewit.
