=== STOCK CLUES: The Warden ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, Eleanor Bold must choose between Mr. Arabin, Bertie Stanhope, and the scheming Low Church advocate Mr. Slope. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    Name this author who included his novel Barchester Towers in his Barsetshire series.
  Part 2 (ans: warden of Hiram's Hospital [accept The Warden]):
    Barchester Towers opens in the aftermath of Septimus Harding having resigned this lucrative position at Hiram's Hospital. This post titles the first novel in the Barsetshire series.
  Part 3 (ans: William Makepeace Thackeray):
    Trollope befriended this author while writing his Barsetshire series, later going on to write a biography of him. This author wrote about the mischievous Becky Sharp in his novel Vanity Fair.

[B2] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The characters Doctor Pessimist Anticant and Mr. Popular Sentiment in this novel are supposedly parodies of Thomas Carlyle and Charles Dickens respectively. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Warden):
    This Bastershire-set novel centres on the conflict between Septimus Harding, holder of the titular office, and the young reformer John Bold. Bold enlists the help of the editor of The Jupiter and forces Harding to resign.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This writer of The Warden wrote forty-seven novels, including the sweeping satire The Way We Live Now. He also worked at the General Post Office for over thirty years before resigning to stand as the Liberal candidate for Beverley in Yorkshire.
  Part 3 (ans: The Eustace Diamonds):
    In this Trollope novel Lizzie Greystock looks for a new husband while trying to stop Mr. Camperdown from retrieving a family heirloom given to her by her late husband Sir Florian.

[B3] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Tom Towers writes influential pieces for The Jupiter in this novel, whose other characters include the Attorney General, Sir Abraham Haphazard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Warden):
    Identify this first novel of The Chronicles of Barsetshire which centers on Reverend Harding, who resigns the title position taking care of the old men at Hiram's Hospital.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This author wrote The Chronicles of Barsetshire, including Framley Parsonage and Barchester Towers. You may know this Victorian novelist for producing a voluminous amount of writings.
  Part 3 (ans: United States of America [accept obvious equivalents. That Trollope novel is The American Senator.]):
    In a different novel by Anthony Trollope, the incredulously named character of Elias Gotobed runs for office in this country. It is also the setting for much of Dickens's Martin Chuzzlewit.

[B4] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Brevity is not a universal virtue in literature, since some novelists didn't know when to stop writing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A La Recherche Du Temps Perdu [or In Search of Lost Time; accept Remembrance of Things Past]):
    Swann's Way is the first of seven volumes in this substantial work discussing memory, among other things. It is the most famous work of Marcel Proust.
  Part 2 (ans: The Warden):
    This novel was the first of six making up Anthony Trollope's The Chronicles of Barsetshire. Its main character is Mr Harding, who holds the titular role at Hiram's Hospital.
  Part 3 (ans: A Question of Upbringing):
    This first of the twelve novels in Antony Powell's A Dance to the Music of Time tells of the evolution of Nick Jenkins' schoolday friendships as the characters mature into adulthood.
