=== STOCK CLUES: The Eustace Diamonds ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The characters Doctor Pessimist Anticant and Mr. Popular Sentiment in this novel are supposedly parodies of Thomas Carlyle and Charles Dickens respectively. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Warden):
    This Bastershire-set novel centres on the conflict between Septimus Harding, holder of the titular office, and the young reformer John Bold. Bold enlists the help of the editor of The Jupiter and forces Harding to resign.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This writer of The Warden wrote forty-seven novels, including the sweeping satire The Way We Live Now. He also worked at the General Post Office for over thirty years before resigning to stand as the Liberal candidate for Beverley in Yorkshire.
  Part 3 (ans: The Eustace Diamonds):
    In this Trollope novel Lizzie Greystock looks for a new husband while trying to stop Mr. Camperdown from retrieving a family heirloom given to her by her late husband Sir Florian.

[B2] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel centers on Lizzie Greystock, a fortune hunter who pursues Lord Fawn and Lord George Carruthers after the death of her husband Sir Florian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Eustace Diamonds):
    Name this novel in which Lizzie is disgraced after the theft of the title jewels on a necklace.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    The Eustace Diamonds is the third in this British author's six Parliamentary novels about the Palliser family. He also wrote Barchester Towers.
  Part 3 (ans: He Knew He Was Right):
    This massive novel by Trollope focuses on the suspicions of Louis Trevelyan, who travels to the Mandarin Islands and marries Sir Marmaduke's daughter Emily Rowley. Olivier Dimsdale starred in its BBC adaptation.
