=== STOCK CLUES: Dorothea Lange ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 25 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dorothea Lange
  - Poetry accompanied pictures by this artist in an April 2020 online MoMA  exhibition titled for this artist's "Words and Pictures". [PWR]
  - This artist took pictures of the hands and feet of Indonesian dancers while accompanying Paul Taylor on a trip to Asia. [PWR]
  - A photograph by this artist of young men on a porch was transformed into a propaganda poster reading "This is your America... [PWR]
  - Keep it free!" This artist took pictures of (*) empty roads for the collection An American Exodus. [PWR]
  - Photographs of a man hoisting his grandson on his back and of an American flag flying in front of a barracks were taken by this artist for the War Relocation Board.
  - Another of her photographs shows two children leaning on the shoulders of Florence Owens Thompson.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer of Migrant Mother. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dorothea Lange
  - A late-career series by this photographer captured the work of Public Defenders in California. [PWR]
  - This photographer retouched one work in order to remove the subject's thumb from the lower-right corner. [PWR]
  - This photographer collaborated with Pirkle Jones to document the deliberate destruction of Monticello in Death of a Valley. [PWR]
  - In one of this artist's photographs, a man in a beat-up hat looks away from a crowd while clasping his hands.
  - Unlike (*) Ansel Adams, this photographer was able to document early and late stages of internment at Manzanar.
  - While working for the FSA, this artist of The White Angel Breadline photographed two children sheltering behind Florence Owens Thompson.
  - For 10 points, name this woman who took the photograph Migrant Mother. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dorothea Lange
  - A documentary references this artist's desire to go down to the street and "grab a hunk of lightning". [PWR]
  - This person collaborated with economist Paul Schuster Taylor on a project titled An American Exodus. [PWR]
  - This artist created a work of art depicting a man in a hat with a cup in San Francisco looking away from a line at a location run by the "White Angel". [PWR]
  - Along with various male artists, she documented life at the (*) Manzanar camp for the interned Japanese during World War II. [PWR]
  - This artist's most famous image is of a pensive looking Florence Owens Thompson and her children at a pea pickers' camp in California during the Great Depression.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer for the Farm Security Administration, best known for her picture Migrant Mother. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 PACE NSC (2015) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dorothea Lange
  - This artist showed three men from Vermont leaning on a car parked next to a tent in a work captioned "Little Money." This artist collaborated with Pirkle Jones in depicting the desolation of Monticello, California before it was submerged under Lake Beryessa. [PWR]
  - That collaboration was published as the "Death of a Valley" issue of Aperture magazine. [PWR]
  - A picture taken by this artist shows Japanese children saying the (*) pledge of allegiance, and she also documented the Manzanar Japanese internment camp. [PWR]
  - While working for the Farm Safety Administration, she photographed Florence Owens Thomson and her two children at a campsite during the Great Depression.
  - For 10 points, name this American photographer who took Migrant Mother. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Three children grasp at a barbed wire fence in a photograph taken in this location. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Manzanar [accept Manzanar National Historic Site]):
    Name this location. Mount Williamson can be seen in the background of several photographs of this location published in the book Born Free and Equal.
  Part 2 (ans: Toyo Miyatake [accept either underlined portion]):
    This photographer collaborated with Ansel Adams to compile photographs into Two Views of Manzanar. Ralph Merritt only allowed this man's photographs to be physically taken by a white person, due to him being a prisoner at Manzanar himself.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothea Lange [or Dorothea Margaretta Nutzhorn]):
    This photographer captured sites like the Children's Village of Manzanar before the WRA impounded over eight hundred of her photographs. This photographer depicted Florence Owens Thompson gazing into the distance in her Migrant Mother.

[B2] 2022 ACF Fall (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of "Parmelian Prints" of this location inspired the Zone System with the dark, red-filtered photo Monolith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yosemite National Park):
    Name this National Park in the Sierra Nevada where Ansel Adams took photos such as El Capitan and Moon over Half Dome.
  Part 2 (ans: Manzanar internment camp [or Manzanar War Relocation Center]):
    Adams photographed the Sierra's second-highest peak, Mount Williamson, while taking photos of this facility for the book Born Free and Equal. Adams created a series depicting women's calisthenics at this facility.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothea Lange [or Dorothea Margaretta Nutzhorn]):
    In 1942, this photographer also took photos of Mount Williamson overlooking Manzanar. This photographer, who was later employed by the FSA, documented the Depression era in images such as White Angel Breadline.

[B3] 2018 IMSAnity (2018) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many important moments in history have been cataloged by photographers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mathew Brady):
    This early photographer, known as the "father of photojournalism," captured many scenes of the Civil War, some of which he depicted in his "Dead of Antietam" Exhibition. He also took the photo of Abraham Lincoln that is now featured on the penny.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This California photographer chronicled events at a Japanese Internment camp called Manzanar and also captured a famous image of the family of Florence Owens Thompson during the Great Depression in her "Migrant Mother."
  Part 3 (ans: Malcolm Browne):
    In June of 1963, this man captured a photo of Thich Quang Duc immolating himself on a Saigon street. That image won the Pulitzer Prize and quickly became known as "The Burning Monk."

[B4] 2017 ACF Fall (2017) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During this time period, Walker Evans photographed a portrait of Allie Mae Burroughs titled Alabama Tenant Farmer Wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Depression [or the Great Slump; or the Depression; or the Dust Bowl; prompt on the 1930s]):
    Name this period of history. During this period, the artist of White Angel Breadline took several photographs of Florence Owens Thompson with her family.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    While working for the Farm Security Administration, this female artist took the photograph Migrant Mother.
  Part 3 (ans: child laborers [or synonymous answers, such as child workers; prompt on children and other synonyms]):
    Photographer Lewis Hine, who worked for the TVA during the Depression, gained fame for his many photographs of these types of people, including one photo showing four of them side by side after leaving a mine.

[B5] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: James Franco tried to reshoot this series with himself in the main role, but god it was awful. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Untitled Film Stills):
    Name this series of black-and-white, mock-vintage photographs. Its images include the photographer looking out skeptically at a cityscape and standing against an old door. It shows the photographer in a variety of stereotypical female roles like housewife and career girl.
  Part 2 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    Untitled Film Stills was created by this photographer, who criticized pornography in her violent Sex Pictures series. Her Untitled #96 depicts herself lying in an orange shirt on a kitchen floor holding an ad.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This other female photographer depicted Japanese children in internment camps as well as showing a determined-looking woman in Migrant Mother.

[B6] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the photography of Life magazine:
  Part 1 (ans: Margaret Bourke-White):
    The first Life cover image was produced by this photographer, who worked with her husband Erskine Caldwell on a phototography book that documents the plight of Southern farmers during the Great Depression, titled You Have Seen Their Faces.
  Part 2 (ans: V-J Day [or Victory over Japan Day or Victory in the Pacific Day; or V-P Day; prompt on Victory Day]):
    Life magazine's most iconic photograph may be Alfred Eisenstaedt's photo of a sailor and a nurse embracing following an announcement on August 14, 1945, which is known as this day.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This woman used her connections at Life to help fund Edward Steichen's The Family of Man exhibit. While working for the Farm Security Administration, she took the photograph Migrant Mother.

[B7] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some American photographers for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This photographer captured the misery and human cost of the 1930's Dust Bowl with her photograph of Florence Owens Thompson, "Migrant Mother."
  Part 2 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    While not known for taking pictures of human subjects, this photographer detailed the life of Japanese-Americans in internment camps in his book Born Free and Equal.
  Part 3 (ans: Diane Arbus):
    A boy with a strained face clutches a hand grenade in the best known work of this photographer famous for capturing the social outcasts of New York City.

[B8] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist collaborated with Pirkle Jones on the Life magazine photo-essay "The Death of a Valley", which depicted the flooding of Monticello, California by the new Lake Berryessa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothea Lange [or Dorothea Margaretta Nutzhorn]):
    Name this photographer who chronicled the internment camp at Manzanar for the War Relocation authority but remains most famous for a photo of Florence Owens Thompson called Migrant Mother.
  Part 2 (ans: Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi; prompt on "Bapu"]):
    Fellow pioneering female photographer Margaret Bourke-White may be most famous for her photographs of this Indian nationalist leader sitting at a spinning wheel, taken shortly before his assassination by Nathuram Godse.
  Part 3 (ans: Cindy Sherman [or Cynthia Morris Sherman]):
    The most expensive photograph sold by a female photographer is this woman's Untitled #96. She used mannequins and prosthetic limbs in her series Sex Pictures and modeled herself for her most famous series, Untitled Film Stills.

[B9] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This time period is the focus of the book And Their Children After Them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Depression [or Dust Bowl; prompt on 1930s]):
    Name this time period that is also the focus of much of Walker Evans' photographs, as collected in the book Let Us Now Praise Famous Men. Roy Stryker chaired an agency that took photos during this time period.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This woman took a famous photograph during the Depression called Migrant Mother.
  Part 3 (ans: Gordon Parks):
    This other Depression era photographer is best known for his photo entitled American Gothic, Washington, D.C., which shows a black cleaning woman holding a broom and mop in front of the American flag. He also directed the seminal blaxploitation film Shaft.

[B10] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these photographers.
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This photographer's works included photographs of residents of the Manzanar Relocation Center and a still entitled Migrant Mother.
  Part 2 (ans: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]):
    This fan of readymades and friend of Marcel Duchamp photographed Alice Prin for his Le Violon d'Ingres.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Mapplethorpe):
    While he took the photograph used for the album cover of Patti Smith's Horses, he's better known for an early 1990s controversy related to his explicit photographs shown in the National Endowment of the Arts-funded The Perfect Moment exhibition.

[B11] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist photographed a pair of creepy-looking identical twins and a Jewish giant at home with his parents. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Diane Arbus):
    Name this woman who also photographed a child holding a toy hand grenade in Central Park.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This woman, who photographed Japanese-American children taking the pledge of allegiance before being interned, is best known for a photograph depicting the hardship of the Depression, Migrant Mother.
  Part 3 (ans: Pictorialism [accept word forms]):
    Another female American photographer, Gertrude Kasebier, was a leading figure in this late-19th century movement in photography. Broadly speaking, this movement helped turn photography into an art form like painting by manipulating negatives to create an emotional response.

[B12] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify some photographers, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This woman, while working for the Farm Security Administration, captured several scenes of the Dust Bowl, including a famous portrait of Florence Owens Thompson entitled Migrant Mother.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Bourke-White):
    This other photographer depicted Gandhi at his spinning wheel in one work. Her depiction of Fort Peck Dam appeared on the cover of the first issue of Life Magazine.
  Part 3 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    This MacArthur Fellow's works include Untitled Film Stills and the pornography-inspired Centerfolds. She's also famous for placing herself in series in which classic paintings are reworked, called History Portraits.

[B13] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some photographers who displayed social injustices of their day:
  Part 1 (ans: Ansel Adams):
    This photographer was invited by Ralph Merritt to take such photographs as Tom Kobayashi, Landscape, South Fields and Pleasure Park to showcase conditions in Manzanar, which he turned into the book Born Free and Equal.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    She highlighted the effects of the Great Depression on the poor in such photographs as Waiting for Relief Checks, taken in Calipatria, and Migrant Mother.
  Part 3 (ans: John Filo):
    This man is best known for his Pulitzer-winning photograph of Mary Ann Vecchio screaming out at the shooting of Jeffrey Miller, taken while he was a student at Kent State.

[B14] 2012 Illinois Fall Tournament (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He won an academy award for filming and directing The Fighting Lady, and he set up The Family of Man exhibit in the 1950's. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    Identify this influential early American photographer.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City):
    The Family of Man exhibit was set up at the Museum of Modern Art in this city, which is also home to the Metropolitan.
  Part 3 (ans: Dorothea Lange):
    This fellow photographer and colleague of Edward Steichen may be best known for her depiction of Florence Thompson, which has been termed Migrant Mother.
