=== STOCK CLUES: Josip Broz Tito ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 30 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 CULT (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Jozef Tiso [or Jozef Gaspar Tiso; reject Josip Broz Tito]
  - While escorting a mission tasked with rescuing airmen downed over this leader's country, AP journalist Joseph Morton was captured in a snowbound log cabin and executed. [PWR]
  - This chair of the HSLS-SSNJ commanded his people to "Cast off [their] parasite" in one speech.
  - This leader was forced to expel his party's Nastupists in favor of Votjech Tuka's rival faction following the Salzburg Conference. [PWR]
  - This man's predecessor names a militia he employed, the Hlinka Guard, which perpetrated the Kremnicka and Nemecka massacres.
  - Supporting a revolt against this leader centered in Banska Bystrica was the primary objective of the Dukla-Presov offensive. [PWR]
  - This vodca suppressed a 1944 National Uprising, led in part by (*) Gustav Husak. [PWR]
  - The very first train to Auschwitz was sent by this leader, which prompted Adolf Hitler to remark, "It is interesting how this little Catholic priest...is sending us the Jews." For ten points, identify this Nazi puppet who served as President of the Slovak Republic and should not be confused with the leader of Yugoslavia. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Josip Broz Tito
  - This man formed the Main Operational Group to win the Fall Weiss offensive. [PWR]
  - This target of Operation Knight's Move successfully defeated a much larger army by blowing up all the bridges over the Neretva River in the so-called "Battle of the Wounded." This man merged his government with Peter II in the Treaty of Vis.
  - This man accused the Catholic Church of harboring his political enemy (*) Ante Pavelic. [PWR]
  - This man's falling out with a political ally foiled his plans to annex Trieste.
  - This man put Draza Mihailovic on trial for leading the royalist Chetnik movement.
  - With Nasser, Nehru, and Nkrumah, this man founded the Non-Aligned Movement following the Bandung Conference.
  - For 10 points, name this Communist leader of Yugoslavia until his death in 1980. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz Tito] (The editor was Milovan Djilas.)
  - Terence Atherton's expedition mysteriously disappeared after contacting this leader's forces during Operation Hydra.
  - This founder of the OZNA security agency ordered the arrest of a Borba newspaper editor for criticizing workers' self-management theory.
  - Pius XII excommunicated this leader for convicting Archbishop Aloysius Stepinac  of collaborating with the Ustase .
  - This leader's death allowed the flourishing of "Goli Otok  literature" dating back to the Informbiro period.
  - This leader launched the "leftist errors" while fighting for control of Uzice  against Mihailovic's  Chetniks.
  - This co-founder of the Non-Aligned Movement declared, "Stop sending people to kill me," after feuding with Joseph Stalin.
  - For 10 points, name this leader of the Partisans and dictator of Yugoslavia. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]
  - This leader's rise to power was aided by an agreement with a monarch signed at Vis.
  - During his time in power, this leader's country adopted the motto "Brotherhood and Unity." Political opponents of this leader were sent to the prison island of Goli Otok during the Informbiro period.
  - This man helped co-found and was the first Secretary-General of the Non-Aligned Movement, and his support of "independent roads to socialism" brought him in conflict with Stalin.
  - For 10 points, name this head of the Yugoslav Partisans and long time leader of Yugoslavia. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Josip Broz Tito-Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin split [accept in either order; accept equivalent answers; accept Josip Broz for Tito; accept Ioseb Dzugashvili for Stalin; or Yugoslav-Soviet split before mentioned]
  - This event was followed by the Informbiro period in one of the relevant countries.
  - Supporters of one side were sent to the prison island Goli otok, and Traicho Kostov and Laszlo Rajk were both executed for their alleged support of the other.
  - One man in this event became angry at the other for that man's impolitic involvement in the Greek Civil War and attempts to incorporate Trieste into his country.
  - This event was made official with a 1948 resolution that accused another country's Communist party of splitting with Marxist-Leninism and expelled it from Cominform.
  - For 10 points, name this cooling of relations between the leaders of Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This leader spearheaded efforts to produce the IMKO series of microprocessors, which were used in a clone of the Apple II named after his birthplace of Pravetz. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Todor Zhivkov [or Todor Hristov Zhivkov] (of Bulgaria)):
    Name this leader who trained astronauts in the Shipka Program. Over 300,000 citizens were deported as part of a "revival process" supported by this leader in the 1980s.
  Part 2 (ans: Comecon ("COM-uh-CON") [or Council for Mutual Economic Assistance; accept CMEA or CEMA]):
    Approximately 40% of all computers sold in this Soviet-led organization were Pravetz 82s. The 1971 "Comprehensive Program" further integrated the economies in this trading bloc, which consisted of Warsaw Pact members.
  Part 3 (ans: Josip Broz Tito ):
    Outside of Comecon, this leader's country experienced a craze around a DIY computer called Galaksija. The Informbiro period was sparked by this Yugoslav leader's split with Stalin.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this period, Arso Jovanovic ("yoh-VAH-noh-vitch") led a failed coup that inspired insurrections in towns such as Bijelo Polje ("BEE-yeh-loh POL-yeh") and Cazin ("TSAH-zeen"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Informbiro period [prompt on descriptive answers such as the Tito-Stalin split]):
    Name this period during which over 100 citizens were killed at the Goli Otok ("GOH-lee OH-toke") prison camp. The Belgrade declaration ended this seven-year period with a rapprochement between the Soviet Union and another nation.
  Part 2 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]):
    The Informbiro period was exacerbated by Stalin's split with this leader of the Partisans who was president of Yugoslavia until his death in 1980.
  Part 3 (ans: Zagreb):
    During the Informbiro period, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia became the League of Communists of Yugoslavia in this city. Ante Pavelic ("AHN-tay PAH-vay-litch") led a Nazi-aligned party from this city, from which Franjo Tuđman ("FRAHN-yoh TOODZH-mahn") later ruled.

[B3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Rudolf Maister led a group of namesake "fighters" in this country during Marburg's Bloody Sunday, which killed a dozen Germans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Slovenia [Republic of Slovenia]):
    Name this country whose Home Guard operated during the German occupation of a formerly Italian-occupied province. This country formed from a kingdom that paired its central ethnic group with Serbs and Croats.
  Part 2 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]):
    The Slovenian National Liberation Front formed the Slovene Partisans, part of this leader's Yugoslav Partisans. This communist dictator became the First Secretary General of the Non-Aligned Movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Istrians [or Dalmatian Istrians; or Istrian Italians; prompt on Italians]):
    Anti-communist Slovenes and people of this ethnicity were killed during the foibe massacres carried out by the Yugoslav Partisans. People of this ethnic group supported a proto-fascist state in Fiume before its annexation by a western neighbor.

[B4] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Morgan Line created a "Free Territory" around this city after World War II and demarcated "Zone A" under the sovereignty of Allied occupational forces. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Trieste [or Trst or Triest] (The "Sinews of Peace" speech was given by Winston Churchill.)):
    Name this city that, with Stettin, was said to bound a metaphorical construct in the "Sinews of Peace" speech given in Fulton, Missouri.
  Part 2 (ans: Iron Curtain):
    Winston Churchill described how this construct "descended across the continent" from "Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic," alluding to the new geopolitical challenges posed by the Soviet-influenced Eastern Bloc.
  Part 3 (ans: Informbiro period (The leader was Josip Broz Tito of Yugoslavia.)):
    The potential of Trieste as a powder keg during the Cold War was abated by an ideological split between Stalin and a leader responsible for the use of the Goli Otok prison during this political period.

[B5] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A letter from this man was supposedly found in Stalin's office warning him to 'Stop sending people to kill me! ...If you don't stop sending killers, I'll send a very fast working one to Moscow and I certainly won't have to send another.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [accept either underlined part]):
    That letter came from this leader of the Yugoslav Partisans in the Second World War, who became Prime Minister and then President for Life in the post-war years.
  Part 2 (ans: Bulgaria):
    Tito's differences with Stalin in part arose because of his ambitions to unite Yugoslavia with this other country following the Lake Bled accord. This country's first communist leader had been tried in Germany for complicity in the Reichstag Fire.
  Part 3 (ans: Cominform [accept Information Bureau of the Communist and Workers' Parties]):
    The official collapse of Yugoslav-Soviet relations came about with the expulsion of Yugoslavia from this pre-Warsaw Pact body, an alliance of Marxist-Leninist states formed in 1947. The expulsion of Yugoslavia from this body was somewhat awkward, since it was headquartered in Belgrade.

[B6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The script for this man's show trial was the same as that used in a similar event in Bulgaria, as both texts were written in Moscow and only minor details were changed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Laszlo Rajk (LAZ-loh ROH-ik or ROY-ik)):
    Name this Hungarian communist who served as minister of the interior and founded the AVH secret police before being arrested and executed on false charges.
  Part 2 (ans: Matyas Rakosi (MAHT-yash RAH-koh-shee) [or Matyas Rosenfeld]):
    Rajk's trial was overseen by this leader, who used "salami tactics" to defeat rival parties and make Hungary a one-party state.
  Part 3 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]):
    Stalin accused Rajk and other communists of following the doctrine of this Yugoslav leader, who resisted Soviet influence and never joined the Warsaw Pact.

[B7] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Grigory Mekler asserted that this world leader was a Soviet agent who stole the identity of a World War II anti-Japanese fighter, a claim which literally nobody else takes seriously. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kim Il-sung [or Kim Song-ju; prompt on "Kim"]):
    Name this politician who holds the title of "Eternal President" despite being dead since 1994. He is the central figure of the Juche personality cult.
  Part 2 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]):
    This other Communist was suspected to have been replaced by a native speaker of Russian due to his unique accent. Mainstream scholarly opinion holds that this founder of the Yugoslav Partisans was actually Croatian.
  Part 3 (ans: Harold Wilson [or James Harold Wilson, Baron Wilson of Rievaulx]):
    Anatoliy Golitsyn claimed that this Labour Party politician was an active agent of the KGB. Despite this, this man became Prime Minister twice, before and after the ministry of Edward Heath. He sent the British military into Northern Ireland as part of Operation Banner.

[B8] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This city was a free port governed under UN auspices from 1947 until 1954. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Trieste):
    Name this city whose status was finally settled by the 1975 Treaty of Osimo. It was identified as the southern endpoint of the Iron Curtain in a speech by Winston Churchill.
  Part 2 (ans: Josip Broz Tito):
    This man actively sought to acquire Trieste for his country after World War II. He is more famous for being the first Secretary-General of the Non-Aligned Movement.
  Part 3 (ans: Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia):
    Tito sought to unite all South Slavic peoples in this state, which came close to joining with Bulgaria before Tito's split with Stalin. This state's breakup in the 1990s created countries like Slovenia, Serbia, and Croatia.

[B9] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This Communist leader rose to power as the leader of the Partisans during World War II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this leader of postwar Yugoslavia who broke away from the Soviet bloc and championed the Non-Aligned Movement.
  Part 2 (ans: Chetniks):
    As leader of the Partisans, Tito was a rival of this other anti-Axis resistance movement, which promoted Serbian nationalism.
  Part 3 (ans: Uzice [accept Republic of Uzice]):
    The Partisans' first experience in governing came in 1941, when they set up a small state in a liberated area of western Serbia on the Detinja River with this city as its capital and namesake.

[B10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man wrote "Stop sending people to kill me" to Josef Stalin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]):
    Name this man, the only European co-founder of the Non-Aligned Movement, which he became the first Secretary-General of in 1961.
  Part 2 (ans: Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia):
    Tito was the longtime leader of this country, which no longer exists. It consisted of such republics as Serbia, Croatia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina.
  Part 3 (ans: Aloysius Stepinac):
    This Croatian archbishop condemned Tito's Communist leadership. He was eventually tried and imprisoned. While he was released from prison thanks to foreign pressure, he refused to leave Yugoslavia. He was declared a martyr and beatified by Pope John Paul II years later.

[B11] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man once sent a letter to Stalin politely asking him to stop sending people to assassinate him, or else he would return the favor, except he would succeed. For 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Josip Broz Tito):
    Name this founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement, a longtime leader of Yugoslavia who kept his country out of the Warsaw Pact.
  Part 2 (ans: Chetniks [or Chetnik Detachments of the Yugoslav Army; or Yugoslav Army in the Homeland]):
    During World War II, Tito led the Communist Partisans against German occupation and was opposed by these partisans who favored the return of King Peter to the Yugoslav throne following the war.
  Part 3 (ans: Otto Skorzeny):
    During the war, this German commando attempted to kidnap Tito in the Raid on Drvar. This scarfaced maniac's other feats include rescuing Benito Mussolini and rolling Miklos Horthy's son up in a rug.

[B12] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This statesman overthrew a member of the Karadordevic Dynasty, named Peter II, and this co-founder of the Non-Aligned movement survived the Nazi raid on Drvar. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josip Broz Tito):
    Name this socialist dictator who had a notable split with Stalin.
  Part 2 (ans: Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia [or SFR Yugoslavia; or SFRY; or Socijalisticka Federativna Republika Jugoslavija; or Socialisticna federativna republika Jugoslavija]):
    Tito was the leader of this no-longer extant country, which broke up into countries like Macedonia and Serbia about a decade after his death.
  Part 3 (ans: Aloysius Viktor Stepinac):
    This Archbishop of Zagreb spoke out against Yugoslav atrocities during World War II; in response, Tito's government had him arrested for war crimes and executed.

[B13] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This werewolf operative spearheaded the Gran Sasso raid to rescue Mussolini. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Otto Skorzeny):
    Name this German who was ordered to assassinate Stalin, Churchill and FDR at the Tehran Conference.
  Part 2 (ans: Josip Broz Tito):
    As part of Operation Knight's Leap, Skorzeny also attempted to incapacitate this leader of the Yugoslav Partisans.
  Part 3 (ans: Hungary):
    Skorzeny redeemed himself for failing to capture Tito by successfully kidnapping Miklos Horthy Jr. and forcing his father to cede power to the leader of the Arrow Cross Party in this country.
