=== STOCK CLUES: Deng Xiaoping ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 27 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Deng Xiaoping [accept Deng Xiaoping theory or Deng Xiaoping Lilun or Dengism; accept Deng Xiaoping and the Transformation of China; accept Deng Xiaoping and the Making of Modern China] (The third line refers to the 1979 Sino-Vietnamese War.)
  - Susan Shirk's recent book Overreach examines the "ghost" left by this leader after the end of his "hide and bide" doctrine.
  - Biographies of this leader by Richard Evans and Ezra Vogel highlight him wearing a cowboy hat on a state visit to the US.
  - This leader of the "Eight Elders" sent his successor to study Ireland's Shannon Airport one year after his army invaded Vietnam.
  - This "second generation" leader's "Southern Tour" publicized the success of the first four special economic zones he created as part of "reform and opening up." This leader proposed the principle of "one country, two systems" and instituted the one-child policy.
  - For 10 points, Jiang Zemin  succeeded what modernizing paramount leader who resigned after the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests? [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Reform and Opening Up [or Gai Ge Kai Fang; or Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms; or Deng's market liberalization; or Deng's land reforms; or Deng's agricultural reforms; or Deng's fiscal reforms; prompt on Chinese economic/agricultural/etc. reforms with "under which leader;" accept "market" for "economic" before mention]
  - Description Acceptable.
  - Susan Shirk's state-oriented analysis of the "political logic" of this program diverges from Barry Naughton's interpretation of it as a partly unplanned process of "growing out." A trip on the fortieth anniversary of the start of this project featured the opening of the longest sea crossing in the world.
  - Opponents of this project launched a quickly aborted countervailing drive against "spiritual pollution." A leader claimed that pursuing this project required "crossing the river by feeling the stones." An element of this program called "eating in separate kitchens" contracted tax revenue to local governments.
  - This set of policies included promotion of Township and Village Enterprises and a contracting policy called the Household Responsibility System.
  - The promulgator of these policies sought to preserve them during a "Southern Tour" of his country and supposedly proclaimed, "To get rich is glorious." For 10 points, name this set of pro-market policies that started to be enacted by China's Paramount Leader in 1978. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Current Events
     Answer: Deng Xiaoping
  - This leader referenced the Kent State shootings as proof that the United States lacked the moral authority to criticize his country in his June 9 speech. [PWR]
  - A son of this leader campaigns for the rights of disabled persons, having become paraplegic after jumping or being thrown out of a window during a torture session. [PWR]
  - This leader was placed under house arrest after being accused of planning a 1976 protest triggered by the removal of displays of mourning. [PWR]
  - In 1992, he took a tour of the southern part of his country. [PWR]
  - He famously stated that it doesn't (*) matter whether a cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice.
  - He enacted a previous leader's Four Modernizations, and formulated the "one country, two systems" principle.
  - As de facto leader, he suppressed the Tiananmen Square protests.
  - For 10 points, name this "paramount leader" of China throughout the 1980s. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Deng Xiaoping
  - This leader introduced the Household Responsibility System to help revive township and village enterprises, part of an effort to build so-called "socialism" with his country's "characteristics." This leader's "one country, two systems" doctrine allowed special administrative regions to keep their own ways of government. [PWR]
  - This leader's sayings included "To be rich is glorious!" and "It doesn't matter whether a (*) cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice." This leader set up Special Economic Zones like Shenzhen as part of reforms to encourage export-led development.
  - The "Tank Man" photo was taken when this leader sent troops to put down the Tiananmen Square protests.
  - For 10 points, name this reformist paramount leader of China from 1978 to 1992. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Deng Xiaoping [or Teng Hsiao-p'ing or Deng Xiansheng or Teng Hsien-sheng]
  - Hearing loss forced this man to work from his home office on Kuang Street. [PWR]
  - This man outlined the "one center and two basic points" policy in a June 9 speech, and once sued astrophysicist Fang Lizhi for libel.
  - The subject of a recent Ezra Vogel biography, this chairman of the Central Military Commission reopened his country's universities but ordered the crackdown on the (*) Democracy Wall. [PWR]
  - This man emerged victorious from a power struggle with Hua Guofeng but was prevented by the Gang of Four from taking Zhou Enlai's post.
  - For 10 points, name this Chinese leader who "opened" China's economy, and who cracked down on the Tienanmen Square protests. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the turbulent history of Asian stock exchanges in the late 20th century, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    The nascent exchanges in Shenzhen and Shanghai were publicly supported by this leader during his Southern Tour. China's capitalist economic reforms began under this leader in the 1980s.
  Part 2 (ans: Souk Al-Manakh [prompt on the Souk; reject the "Kuwait Stock Exchange"]):
    This exchange was run illegally out of a parking lot in Kuwait City. This exchange briefly became the third highest in market capitalization in the early 1980s by using postdated checks as security contracts.
  Part 3 (ans: 1997 [prompt on '97]):
    The Indonesian stock market and the value of the rupiah both hit a historic low in this year. After Indonesia's GDP shrank by 13.5 percent during this year, the fallout in the next year led to the end of the Suharto regime.

[B2] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Recent locations of this company in China have marketed themselves as shrines to Lei Feng, a communist model citizen whom Mao tirelessly promoted. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: KFC [or Kentucky Fried Chicken; accept ken de ji]):
    Name this company. For weeks after its opening, people waited in long queues to visit a location of this company near Tiananmen Square in 1987, which was the first of its kind to open in China.
  Part 2 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    Western chains like KFC and McDonald's were able to open franchises in China after the liberalizing economic reforms of this Chinese leader who succeeded Mao Zedong.
  Part 3 (ans: Shenzhen):
    The first McDonald's in China opened in 1990 in this city, which was the first special economic zone created by Deng Xiaoping. This city's rapid growth has been termed its namesake "speed."

[B3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Massive improvements in Chinese scientific and technological education were key to this leader's Four Modernizations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Deng Xiaoping ("dung shao-ping")):
    Name this Chinese leader who outmaneuvered Mao's chosen successor Hua Guofeng ("hwa gwoh-fung"). He introduced free market policies to China in the 1980s.
  Part 2 (ans: gaokao [or gaokao ("gow-cow"); accept National College Entrance Examination or NCEE]):
    During the Down to the Countryside movement of the Cultural Revolution, Mao canceled this college entrance exam and sent many students to rural villages. This exam was reinstated by Deng in 1977.
  Part 3 (ans: old [or jiu; or lao; accept "three old classes"; accept Four Olds]):
    The "sent-down" youth who did not complete high school are now referred to as the "three classes" described by this adjective. The Red Guards desecrated Confucian altars as part of a campaign to destroy "habits" and "customs" with this quality.

[B4] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: After the death of Lin Biao, Chairman Mao's wife Jiang Qiing started a campaign called "Criticize Lin, Criticize [this other man]". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Confucius [or Kongfuzi or "K'ung-fu-tzu" or Kongzi]):
    Name this man. After a 1966 rally to "Annihilate [this man's] Family Business," a team of Red Guards were sent to blow up his grave with dynamite.
  Part 2 (ans: genealogies [or pedigrees, or family registers, or clear equivalents]):
    During their campaign against the Four Olds, the Red Guard also burned many of these cultural items, collected in books called zupu. Confucius' family possesses the world's longest and oldest one of these items.
  Part 3 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    Rituals honouring Confucius were resumed in 1984, during the rule of this paramount leader who presided over China's transition to a market economy.

[B5] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The man who accomplished this feat followed it up by writing a poem which ends, "The mountain goddess if she is still there / Will marvel at a world so changed." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Mao Zedong) swimming across the Yangtze ("yang-tsee") River [accept Chang Jiang in place of "Yangtze"]):
    Identify this feat performed by a world leader once in 1956 and again in 1966. During its second instance, the 73-year-old who performed this feat supposedly broke the world speed record by traveling at the impossibly speedy pace of seven minutes per mile.
  Part 2 (ans: Deng Xiaoping ("shao-ping")):
    The bolstering of cults of personality by swimming didn't end with Mao; this "paramount leader" from 1978 to 1992 supposedly went for a dip in the pool after suppressing the Tiananmen Square protests.
  Part 3 (ans: Lin Biao):
    Mao's own cult of personality was bolstered by this politician, who delivered a speech praising Mao as a genius. This man helped assemble and publish "quotations from Chairman Mao Tse-tung" into the Little Red Book.

[B6] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This "third generation" politician closed down the World Economic Herald for advocating dangerous liberal positions during the three-year transition of power to his administration. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jiang Zemin [accept names in either order]):
    Name this Paramount Leader, whose administration saw the beginning of the mass persecution of Falun Gong followers.
  Part 2 (ans: Three Represents [or Sange Daibiao]):
    Jiang attempted to orient governance more towards what he called the "overwhelming majority of the Chinese people" by presenting this socio-political theory, whose central tenets are economic production, cultural development, and political consensus. It was ratified by the Party in 2002.
  Part 3 (ans: Deng Xiaoping [accept names in either order]):
    Jiang succeeded this other leader of China, who was denounced by early opponents as a "capitalist roader." His own guiding principles for China included the liberalization of markets.

[B7] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Chinese communist propaganda, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Oil [or Clear-Knowledge Equivalents]):
    Propaganda hero Wang Jinxi was nicknamed "Iron Man" for his tireless work on the PRC's production of this commodity, especially at Daqing [Da-Ching]. Earlier, Wang had worked at this type of production at Yumen.
  Part 2 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    This man, who acted as a propaganda director of the Jiangxi Soviet, famously stated that Mao was 70% right and 30% wrong. This man was denounced as the "No 2 capitalist roader" at another stage of his career.
  Part 3 (ans: Lei Feng):
    This is perhaps the most famous Chinese propaganda hero, via his forged diary. Never doing anything particularly heroic, he was lauded for his legendary loyalty to Mao Zedong and his perfect acceptance of Mao.

[B8] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This "paramount leader" shared powers with Bo Yibo and the other "Eight Elders", and promulgated the "one country, two systems" ideology. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    Name this world leader who once stated that it doesn't matter if a cat is black or white, as long as it catches mice, as an analogy for his advocacy of a mixed economy.
  Part 2 (ans: People's Republic of China [or PRC; or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo; do not accept "Republic of China"]):
    Deng Xiaoping was the paramount leader of this nation. It is currently headed by a member of the "princelings", named Xi Jinping.
  Part 3 (ans: capitalist roader [or Zou zipai; or Zhouxiang ziben zhuyi de paibie]):
    Deng Xiaoping was purged during the Cultural Revolution after being accused of being the "Number 2" one of these people. This term refers to anyone who attempts to subvert the communist goal by bowing to bourgeois forces.

[B9] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This leader explained his ideology with the metaphor that it doesn't matter whether a cat is white or black, as long as it catches mice. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    Name this leader, who established the first Special Economic Zones in his country.
  Part 2 (ans: "One Country, Two Systems" [or "One China, Two Systems"]):
    This constitutional principle formulated by Deng Xiaoping states that China would allow specific regions, such as Hong Kong and Macau, to retain a capitalistic system, while others maintained socialism.
  Part 3 (ans: Taiwan [or Republic of China; or ROC; or Chinese Taipei]):
    The "One Country, Two Systems" principle would also accommodate this nation, which established its independence from China under the leadership of Kuomintang leader Jiang Jieshi.

[B10] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man, while never General Secretary, was instrumental in moving China towards a market economy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    Name this figure responsible for laying the basis of China's economic growth. During his tenure as "paramount leader," protests broke out at Tiananmen Square.
  Part 2 (ans: Hu Yaobang):
    After Mao's death and Deng's assumption of paramount leader, Deng quickly promoted this reformer culminating in his assumption of General Secretary in 1982. His death was one of the principal causes of the Tiananmen Square protest of 1989.
  Part 3 (ans: Jiang Qing [or Lan Ping; prompt on "Madame Mao"]):
    Before Deng came to power, he forced Hua Guofeng into early retirement. Hua had earlier arrested this counter revolutionary woman while in power.

[B11] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The entire island province of Hainan is designated as one of these regions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Special Economic Zones):
    Name these regions in China where restrictions on trade and investment are relaxed.
  Part 2 (ans: Deng Xiaoping):
    Special Economic Zones were set up by this reforming Chinese leader, who succeeded Hua Guofeng. His excellent record is marred by his orders to use force during the Tiananmen Square massacre.
  Part 3 (ans: Two Whatevers [or Whateverism; or Liang ge fan shi; prompt on "Maoism" and "Mao Zedong Thought" before "Mao" is read]):
    Deng came to power after the Debate on the Criterion of Truth with Hua Guofeng, who notably supported this policy whose tenets included maintaining all of Mao's policies and following all of his directions.
