=== STOCK CLUES: Ponchielli ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Amilcare Ponchielli
  - An opera by this non-Verdi composer represents friars and the common people with the chorus, which sings the a capella passage "Preghiam pei vegilar"-that opera features a libretto by Alessandro Ghislanzoni.
  - The Imperial Ballet gave the St.
  - Petersburg premiere of one of this composer's operas under the title Aldona, which refers to the sister of the main character Arnoldo.
  - This composer of an opera based on the Adam Mickiewicz (MITZ-key-vich) poem Konrad Wallenrod also created an opera in which an old woman is accused of using witchcraft to influence a regatta, and the aria "Cielo e mar" is sung by Enzo as he awaits the arrival of his love Laura.
  - That opera's third act is set in the Ca' d'Oro, where the characters watch a performance in which the times of day are depicted in dance.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of I Lituani and La Gioconda, the latter of which contains the "Dance of the Hours." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character was played by Jerome Hines in a 1980 Metropolitan Opera production, where he sang opposite Paul Plishka. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Grand Inquisitor [or Le Grand Inquisiteur]):
    Name this villainous opera character. Act One of the 1883 version of that opera ends with a king warning a nobleman to beware this character. This blind man sings with that king in a long bass duet that directly follows the aria "Ella giammai m'amo ("EL-luh JAHM-mye mah-MOH")."
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi [or Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi]):
    The Grand Inquisitor is the chief villain in Don Carlo, a grand opera by this composer of Il trovatore ("eel tro-vah-TOH-reh").
  Part 3 (ans: La Gioconda (by Amilcare Ponchielli. That ballet is the "Dance of the Hours.")):
    In this opera by a different composer, the title character helps Laura escape the clutches of the Venetian inquisitor Alvise Badoero and his spy Barnaba. This opera also includes a ballet depicting the times of day.

[B2] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Venice, as one of Europe's leading cultural centres, has served as the setting for various operas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arthur Sullivan):
    Name this composer, the first act of whose 1889 opera The Gondoliers was set in Venice. They are also known for several other operas, as well as incidental music to The Tempest.
  Part 2 (ans: Othello [accept Otello]):
    The title character enters to the chorus "Esultate!" ["e-sul-TA-te!"] in Verdi's opera based on this Shakespeare play in which the husband of Desdemona is sent from Venice to defend Cyprus.
  Part 3 (ans: Amilcare Ponchielli):
    In an opera by this composer set in Venice, Laura plans to elope with Enzo Grimaldo. A ballet depicting the passage of time is performed while Laura's vengeful husband believes she is succumbing to poison.
