=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Ponchielli ===
(Questions where 'Ponchielli' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 2 found, 10 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 6 found, 17 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: La Gioconda ("lah jo-CONE-dah") [or The Joyful Girl or The Joyful Woman or The Joyful Lady or The Joyful One or The Happy Woman or The Ballad Singer]
  - In this opera, two offstage voices shout about finding "more corpses in the canal" during a final act that takes place in a dilapidated offshore palace.
  - A character in this opera changes her attitude toward a rival after seeing a rosary belonging to a blind street singer; that character in this opera stabs herself instead of marrying the baritone Barnaba during the aria "Suicidio" .
  - While on a ship, Enzo sings this opera's most famous aria, "Cielo e mar" .
  - In an oft-excerpted scene from this opera, guests at a feast watch a ballet performed by dancers who represent divisions of the day; that excerpt from this opera is danced to by ostriches and hippos in Fantasia and provides the melody of the song "Hello Muddah, Hello Faddah." For 10 points, name thi

[TM2] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Dance of the Hours [or Danza delle ore]
  - In one version of this ballet, two principal characters were inspired by two Baby Ballerinas of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, Tatiana Riabouchinska and Irina Baronova.
  - In that production of this ballet, the beginning of the second section copies the entrance of Vera Zorina during The Goldwyn Follies's (+) Water Nymph Ballet section.
  - In the music to this ballet, flutes play "B4 B5 B4" to punctuate an ascending theme that begins with the notes "G# B B C#." The original version of this ballet takes place at a party held by Alvise that is attended by Barnaba and Enzo at the (*) Ca' d'Oro in Venice.
  - The four sections of this ballet are usually accompanied by costume changes and lighting effects, and a chorus sings "Prodigio!
  - Incanto!" to mark the transition between dawn and day during stagings of the opera that contains this ballet.
  - For 10 points, name this ballet from La Gioconda by Amilcare Ponchielli that was animated in Disney's Fantasia to include dancing hippos and alligators.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, Enzo sings "Cielo e mar" as he waits for Laura aboard a ship. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Gioconda):
    Name this opera. After La Cieca, the mother of this opera's protagonist, is saved by Laura, the protagonist decides to help Laura escape the Inquisition despite being her romantic rival.
  Part 2 (ans: "Dance of the Hours"):
    Amilcare Ponchielli's La Gioconda is best known for this piece, depicted with dancing animals in Fantasia. This "dance" depicts the passage of time with a sequence representing dawn, day, night, and morning.
  Part 3 (ans: the Met [or the Metropolitan Opera House]):
    Christopher Wheeldon re-choreographed the "Dance of the Hours" for a performance of La Gioconda at this opera house in New York City.

[BM2] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer proposed a "lyrical, haunting" theme from his Second Symphony, originally written for the 50th anniversary of the Boston Symphony, as the theme for the Interlochen Arts Camp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Howard Hanson):
    Name this American composer of that symphony, which was nicknamed "Romantic."
  Part 2 (ans: "Dance of the Hours"):
    This "dance" from Amilcare Ponchielli's opera La Gioconda, originally a ballet interlude at a party, was set to camp-inspired lyrics by comedian Allan Sherman in the song "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh."
  Part 3 (ans: "Arirang"):
    John Barnes Chance, composer of a Blue Lake Overture for a music camp in Michigan, also wrote variations on this pentatonic folksong for concert band, which he first heard as a member of the Eighth U.S. Army Band.

[BM3] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Amilcare Ponchielli is not the only one who knows how to keep time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Wheeldon):
    The commissions of this English contemporary choreographer include Misericors for the Bolshoi, The Winter's Tale for London's Royal Ballet, and Within the Golden Hour for the San Francisco Ballet.
  Part 2 (ans: waltz [or valse]):
    A scene in act III of the ballet Coppelia is titled for this type of dance "of the hours" and features 24 dancers separated into four groups, representing the parts of the day. This kind of dance is usually in ¾ (three - four) time and has a popular Viennese variant.

[BM4] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Amilcare Ponchielli's opera I Lituani was based on a poem by this man about a Lithuanian pagan captured by the Teutonic Knights. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adam Mickiewicz [mits-KAY-vitch]):
    Name this poet of Konrad Wallenrod, most famous for a 12-book epic about the feuding Soplica [saw-PLEE-tsa] and Horeszko [haw-RESH-ko] families titled Pan Tadeusz.
  Part 2 (ans: Poland-Lithuania [accept any historical incarnation of Poland]):
    Adam Mickiewicz is considered to be one of this country's greatest poets and is one of its "Three Bards" - his Pan Tadeusz is set in the aftermath of its Third Partition.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan Potocki):
    This Polish novelist, also an Egyptologist, wrote a novel entirely in French consisting of interwoven stories set that often feature the gypsy chief Avadoro; that novel is The Manuscript Found in Saragossa.

[BM5] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 1982, Carlo Bini was roundly booed at the Met upon singing this area after replacing Placido Domingo onstage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Cielo e Mar"):
    Name this tenor aria which is sung in Act II by Enzo, who awaits the arrival of Laura aboard his ship.
  Part 2 (ans: La Gioconda):
    "Cielo e Mar" is a highlight of this opera by Amilcare Ponchielli, which ends with the title character stabbing herself. It may be most famous for containing the "Dance of the Hours."
  Part 3 (ans: Arrigo Boito):
    This author wrote the libretto for La Gioconda, as well as the libretti for Verdi's operas Otello and Falstaff. He also composed the opera Mefistofele.

[BM6] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about his vision of a political leader sitting silently on a throne before getting up in disgust "to untie / a canticle which will not die". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alessandro Manzoni):
    Name this author of the Napoleonic ode "The Fifh of May," whose most famous work was adapted into an opera by Amilcare Ponchielli and features the brave Capuchin monk Fra Cristoforo.
  Part 2 (ans: The Betrothed [or I Promessi Sposi]):
    Alessandro Manzoni is best known for writing this historical novel inspired by Ivanhoe in which Don Rodrigo attempts stop the marriage of Renzo and Lucia.
  Part 3 (ans: The Nun of Monza [or LaMonaca di Monza; accept Sister Virginia Maria; or Marianna de Leyva y Marino] 6):
    Manzoni fctionalizes this historical fgure as the nun Gertrude who is blackmailed by her lover Egidio to help kidnap Lucia. This historical fgure murdered another nun to cover up her afair and two illegitimate children with a count.
