=== STOCK CLUES: Barbara Kruger ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 20 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Barbara Kruger
  - This artist's designs for a story book include tiny red stopwatches that appear in each illustration and a stainless-steel cover embedded with a digital clock for keeping the reader's time.
  - A faux-Neoclassical statue by this artist shows J.
  - Edgar Hoover kissing Roy Cohn, who is in high heels.
  - This sculptor of Justice, who also illustrated Stephen King's My Pretty Pony, referred to a trademark case as a "ridiculous clusterfuck of totally uncool jokers." A detail from The Creation of Adam appears behind black bars in this artist's You Invest in the Divinity of the Masterpiece.
  - In a work by this artist, a hand holds a card reading "I shop therefore I am." A woman's face appears behind the words "Your body is a battleground" in another work by this artist, whose style was copied by the clothing brand Supreme.
  - For 10 points, name this American artist known for her use of white text on a red background. [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Barbara Kruger
  - A recreation of one work by this artist served as the backdrop for Rage Against the Machine's Evil Empire tour. [PWR]
  - Another piece by this artist covered the breasts of an otherwise naked Kim Kardashian for a cover of W magazine. [PWR]
  - This artist's 2011 work Untitled (That's the Way We Do It) consisted of knock-off images in her signature style found online. [PWR]
  - In this artist's first "live performance," people were charged 5 dollars for the privilege of lining up to purchase (*) skateboards, a reference to Supreme, which has built its brand on ripping her off. [PWR]
  - One of her best-known works was created for a 1989 March on Washington and divides a model's face into four sections.
  - A model's hand grasps at a red label reading "I shop therefore I am" in one of many works by this artist employing the Futura typeface.
  - For 10 points, name this artist of Your Body is a Battleground. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Barbara Kruger
  - This artist's first book paired photographs of California and Florida domestic architecture with typewritten musings on the people who lived inside. [PWR]
  - Actors playing art critics and political strategists yell slogans such as "Get out of my face!" at each other in this artist's 2004 video installation, Twelve. [PWR]
  - An exhibition of this artist at the Hirshhorn Museum in DC in 2012 sprawled her works onto both the (*) floor and escalator of the museum and was titled "Belief + Doubt". [PWR]
  - The alternate title of one of her works comes from a Hans Johst quote, and divides a picture of Howdy Doody into three panels.
  - A woman gazes into a mirror which has been shattered by a large bullet hole in one work by this artist of When I hear the word culture I take out my checkbook.
  - She used Futura Bold Oblique for the phrase, "I shop therefore I am" in one of her works.
  - For 10 points, name this feminist artist of Your Body is a Battleground. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One work by this artist followed the life of financial analyst-turned-MMA fighter Jacob Wood using computer generated waves and hurricane footage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hito Steyerl ("STY-url")):
    Name this German artist of Liquidity Inc. This artist's How Not to Be Seen: A Fucking Didactic Educational .MOV File provides a set of satirical instructions on becoming invisible.
  Part 2 (ans: art museums [or art gallery or art galleries; accept Is the Museum a Battlefield?]):
    A Steyerl work that traces the path of a bullet asks whether one of these locations is a "battlefield." Steyerl has criticized these institutions like the Tate for accepting donations from the Sackler family.
  Part 3 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    Steyerl's Is the Museum a Battlefield? was selected by this artist to be presented alongside her exhibition "THINKING OF YOU. I MEAN ME. I MEAN YOU." This artist used white-on-red lettering over a half-negative photo in her artwork Your Body is a Battleground.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Hirshhorn contains a red-bordered artwork showing a black-and-white hand holding the words "I shop, therefore I am" in this font. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Futura Bold Oblique [prompt on Futura]):
    Name this font, often seen in artworks by that artist such as Talk is Cheap, We don't need another hero, and Your body is a battleground.
  Part 2 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    This artist, who iconically used Futura Bold in her text-on-image artworks, responded to Supreme appropriating her work by calling the brand "a ridiculous clusterfuck of totally uncool jokers."
  Part 3 (ans: Remote Control: Power, Cultures, and the World of Appearances):
    James Jebbia, the founder of Supreme, allegedly handed his design team a copy of this book by Kruger about the influence of TV and film on culture. Its cover depicts a hand holding the empty wrapper of a Reese's peanut butter cup.

[B3] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This brand typically releases its new products on Thursdays. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Supreme):
    Name this clothing and supposed skateboarding lifestyle brand, whose primary logo is a white Heavy Futura Oblique word on a red box background.
  Part 2 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    The Supreme logo copied directly from this artist's artwork "Untitled (Your body is a battleground)" for the Women's March on Washington. This artist superimposed the words "You invest in the divinity of the masterpiece" onto Michelangelo's ("mick-el-AN-jell-ohz") Creation of Adam.
  Part 3 (ans: You Are Not Yourself):
    The title of this 1981 Kruger work is written in Futura Oblique, with the letters misaligned, and depicts a woman looking in a mirror that has been shattered by a bullet.

[B4] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an exhibit titled "Picturing [this quality]," the curator selected photos by artists such as Aleksander Rodchenko and Robert Frank that "suggest how we are seduced into a world of appearances." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: greatness [accept "Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?" or "Picturing "Greatness'"; reject synonyms]):
    Name this quality. Linda Nochlin claims that one reason the title group lacks this trait is because they could not study the nude form in an essay whose title asks why there have been no women artists with this specific quality.
  Part 2 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    This artist curated photos shot solely by men for her exhibition "Picturing 'Greatness.'" This artist juxtaposed a reproduction of Michelangelo's Creation of Adam with the words "You invest in the divinity of the masterpiece."
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo Picasso [or Pablo Ruiz Picasso]):
    Kruger describes a Robert Capa photo of this artist in "Picturing 'Greatness'" as "a star-crossed Houdini." Nochlin's essay wonders about the role played by the father of this Cubist artist of Guernica in his stardom.

[B5] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: The basement of the Hirshhorn Museum is currently covered in this artist's 2012 installation "Belief + Doubt." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    Slogans like "I shop therefore I am" or "We don't need another hero" are imposed on monochrome photographs by what contemporary feminist artist, whose signature style is bold white words on red backgrounds?
  Part 2 (ans: "(a) battleground" [or "Your body is a battleground"]):
    An untitled Kruger work imposes a phrase which ends with this word on a woman's face split in to a photo positive and photo negative. That work was made to support a 1989 women's march, and states that "your body is [one of these things]."
  Part 3 (ans: sans-serif [or gothic; do NOT accept or prompt on "serif"]):
    Kruger mostly utilizes Futura and sometimes Helvetica, which are both this general type of font. Unlike typefaces like Times New Roman, these fonts lack small strokes at the end of larger strokes.

[B6] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist appropriated magazine images, such as a woman with leaves over her eyes, in We Won't Play Nature to Your Culture. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    Name this feminist artist who used white-on-red lettering over a half-negative photo in Your Body is Battleground.
  Part 2 (ans: Cindy Sherman):
    This artist addressed the role of mass media in the form of movies in a series of photographs modeled after movie cliches called Untitled Film Stills.
  Part 3 (ans: The Met [or the Metropolitan Museum of Art]):
    Like Kruger, anonymous art collective The Guerilla Girls used the visual language of advertisements in many poster works, such as one asking whether "women have to be naked to get into" this largest New York art museum.

[B7] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about words in art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Barbara Kruger):
    This artist attacked patriarchy in her photostat of Michelangelo's The Creation of Adam which added the text, "You invest in the divinity of the masterpiece". Another of her works plasters the words "Your body is a battleground" over the image of a woman's face.
  Part 2 (ans: Switzerland):
    Kruger is a fan of the Ultra Condensed variety of Helvetica, a ubiquitous font originally developed by Max Miedinger in this country. Henry Fuseli was born in this landlocked nation.
  Part 3 (ans: Los Angeles [or LA]):
    Ed Ruscha [ru-shay], who made paintings of words like "OOF", painted an art museum in this city on fire. Another art museum in this city exhibits James Ensor's Christ's Entry Into Brussels.
