=== STOCK CLUES: Correggio ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Correggio [or Antonio Allegri da Correggio]
  - This artist painted Diana over a fireplace among his frescoes for the bedroom of an abbess, the Camera di San Paolo.
  - In a series preceded by his Venus and Cupid with a Satyr, this artist included a painting of a stormy cloud with a faintly visible humanoid face embracing a woman.
  - This teacher of Parmigianino painted John the Evangelist so that he was only visible from a church's choir in one fresco.
  - Federico II Gonzaga commissioned this painter's four-painting series that includes Danaeand Jupiter and Io.
  - In a major work by this artist, swirling layers of clouds disguise the octagonal architecture on which they are painted.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian Mannerist painter of The Loves of Jupiter series, who used di sotto in su in his illusionistic ceiling frescoes, including his Assumption of the Virgin for Parma Cathedral. [GIVE]

[T2] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Allegri di Correggio
  - In one painting by this artist, a black robed man to the left has his arms crossed and is about to be whipped, while a figure in blue and orange to the right is being run through with a sword. [PWR]
  - He paired the four gospel writers with the four Doctors of the Church in the corners of a fresco for a dome that shows Christ appearing to fall from the center. [PWR]
  - This artist of Martyrdom of Four Saints and (*) Vision of St. [PWR]
  - John on Patmos depicted a spiralling series of figures that appear to jump out towards the viewer in his Assumption of the Virgin.
  - He also showed a topless woman in a work in which an angel looks up towards a shower of gold and he painted a nude woman from behind being ravished by a nebulous cloud.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of a series of works about the loves of Jupiter. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For the dome of the Parma Cathedral, this artist painted The Assumption of the Virgin as seen from below, or di sotto in su(dee SOH-toh in soo). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Correggio (kaw-REH-joh) [or Antonio Allegri da Correggio]):
    Name this Italian Renaissance artist who included Ganymede (GAA-nih-meed) Abducted by the Eagle in his Ovid-inspired series Loves of Jupiter.
  Part 2 (ans: Marie de' Medici [prompt on partial answer]):
    Jupiter and Juno appear above the three Fates on clouds in a painting titled for the "Destiny" of this person, part of a series which includes her being led off of a boat in The Disembarkation at Marseilles(mahr-SAY).
  Part 3 (ans: Raphael [or Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino]):
    Jupiter holds a thunderbolt in a panel from Creation of the World by this artist who painted The School of Athens.

[B2] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A prominent example of this technique is Andrea Mantegna's depiction of many Cupids peeking down the oculus of the Camera degla Sposi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: di sotto in su):
    Name this illusionistic technique in which the artist paints foreshortened figures to make it appear as if the figures in the painting are correctly proportioned when looking up at them. It literally means "from below, upward."
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Allegri da Correggio):
    This artist, born Antonio Allegri, made use of the di sotto in su technique for his version of the Assumption of the Virgin in Parma Cathedral.
  Part 3 (ans: quadratura):
    Di sotto in su inspired this later illusionistic technique, in which the artist painted architectural features at the top of a ceiling to create an illusion. A prominent example of this technique is Pietro da Cortona's frescoes for the Palazzo Barberini.

[B3] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jupiter, in the form of an eagle, licks the arm of Ganymede as he carries him off in this artist's The Abduction of Ganymede. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Correggio [or Antonio Allegri]):
    Identify this artist from Parma fond of dome painting. Another of his Jupiter paintings shows that God, in the form of a cloud, copulating with Io.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Mantegna):
    Correggio helped complete the family chapel of this artist in Mantua. This artist depicted putto sitting on the painted ceiling of his marvelous Camera degli Sposi and showed a supine Jesus in Dead Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Lanfranco [or Giovanni di Steffano or Il Cavaliere Giovanni Lanfranchi]):
    This later painter from Parma was heavily influenced by Correggio's dome paintings for his own Baroque dome paintings, like the one he executed for the San Andrea della Valle in Rome. This rival of Domenichino and member of the Bolognese school made The Gods of Olympus for the Villa Borghese.

[B4] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Humor quizbowl's number one Scipione Borghese fan by naming the following artists of paintings now located in the Galleria Borghese, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Titian [accept Tiziano Vecelli or Teziano Vecellio]):
    Aphrodite and Cupid sit beside Laura Bagarotto on an open sarcophagus in this artist's Sacred and Profane Love, which is now housed at the Galleria Borghese. This Venetian artist also painted The Rape of Europa.
  Part 2 (ans: Lucas Cranach the Elder [accept no other Cranachs]):
    The Gallery also houses this artist's Venus and Cupid With a Honeycomb. Judith calmly rests her arm on Holofernes' head in the depiction of that scene by this court painter to Frederick the Wise.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonia da Correggio):
    This artist's Danae, in which Cupid and Danae receive Jupiter in the form of a golden shower, is part of the Borghese collection. This man painted the Assumption of the Virgin for the dome of the Parma cathedral.

[B5] 2012 Delta Burke (2012) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these artists who created works entitled Assumption of the Virgin, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopoulos]):
    This artist's Assumption of the Virgin was created for a church in Toledo, where he lived. This artist born on Crete also painted The Disrobing of Christ and The Burial of Count Orgaz.
  Part 2 (ans: Titian [or Tiziano Vecelli; or Tiziano Vecellio]):
    One work by this artist inspired Manet's Olympia, and this artist's Assumption of the Virgin is the largest altarpiece in Venice, which is also the location of his Pesaro Altarpiece.
  Part 3 (ans: Correggio [or Antonio Allegri]):
    This artist's Assumption of the Virgin decorates the dome of a Parma cathedral. This artist depicted Io, Leda, Danae, and Ganymede in four paintings known as the Loves of Jupiter series.
