=== STOCK CLUES: Umberto Eco ===
Tossup questions: 19 found, 99 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - Jean-Claude Carriere  and this theorist bemoan an online poll declaring Tarantino the greatest director in their book This is Not the End of the Book.
  - An essay by this theorist cites The Count of Monte Cristo, "one of the most badly written novels" ever, as a literary predecessor of the "intertextual archetypes" that made Casablanca a cult film.
  - In the 1960s, this theorist conducted a series of debates on "iconism" with colleagues Christian Metz , Roland Barthes , and Pier Paolo Pasolini. [PWR]
  - This theorist cameoed as himself in the book signing scene in La (*) Notte . [PWR]
  - This theorist noted that audiences don't consider L'Avventura pornographic, despite it wasting a lot of their time, in an essay from the collection How To Travel with a Salmon.
  - In a Guardian interview, this author compared one of his novels to a "club sandwich" when discussing its 1986 adaptation starring Christian Slater and Sean Connery as a novice and friar.
  - For 10 points, what pioneer of film semiotics wrote The Name of the Rose? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco (The second sentence refers to the essay "The Role of the Reader." The fifth sentence refers to Foucault's Pendulum.)
  - This writer contrasted the unambiguous nature of "classical" art with the aleatoric music of Stockhausen and Boulez, which he called "open work." According to this author, texts are devices to produce "model readers." This author used Wittgenstein's family resemblance to describe "fourteen ways" in the essay "Ur-Fascism." This writer called for a "communications guerilla warfare" in an essay collected in (*) Travels in Hyperreality. [PWR]
  - Three men in a book by this author form "The Plan" using a computer named for a Kabbalah philosopher, Abulafia.
  - Medieval philosophers like Thomas Aquinas and Roger Bacon, along with Sherlock Holmes, inspired this author's character William of Baskerville, who solves a murder in a Benedictine abbey.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian semiotician who wrote The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In a novel by this author, a German Jesuit named Gaspar fails to teach the protagonist to swim after the shipwreck of the Daphne.
  - This author created a character who divides the world into "cretins, fools, morons, and lunatics." One of this author's protagonists is marooned on an island that he thinks is on the International Date Line.
  - In a novel by this author, several characters examine "telluric currents" using the computer Abulafia.
  - A character created by this author deduces that a missing horse is called Brunellus and examines the lost second book of Aristotle's Poetics.
  - This author of The Island of the Day Before wrote a novel in which Adelmo's death prompts William of Baskerville and Adso of Melk to investigate a monastery.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian author of Foucault's Pendulum and The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco ("ECK-oh")
  - An essay by this author describes a place that looks like Albert Speer read a book on Gaudi, took LSD, and began to build a catacomb for Liza Minnelli. [PWR]
  - A collection by this author includes instructions on playing a Native American in a Western film and becoming a Knight of Malta. [PWR]
  - An essay by this author compares places like LBJ's Presidential Library and waxworks museums to (*) Superman's Fortress of Solitude. [PWR]
  - In an essay by him, a hotel charges him for removing items of a minibar to stow smoked fish in it.
  - This author of Travels in Hyperreality and How to Travel with a Salmon wrote a novel in which the finis Africae is a secret room in the library of a Benedictine abbey where murders are investigated by William of Baskerville.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian author of The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In an essay by this author, this author draws on his experience growing up in Mussoulini's Italy to develop a comprehensive definition of fascism built on 14 characteristics. [PWR]
  - One of this author's works follows a 17th-century explorer as he sets out to find the secrets of longitude.
  - Another of this author's works is divided into (*) ten sections meant to represent the ten Sefirot of the Kaballah.
  - Although that work is named after a famous French philosopher who was a close friend of this author, that work deliberately eschews any reference to him.
  - This author's most famous work revolves around a murder mystery set at an Italian monastery in the year 1327.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian author of Foucault's Pendulum and the Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In a novel by this author, the departments of Mechanical Avunculogratulation and Tetrapyloctomy are considered for the School of Comparative Irrelevance. [PWR]
  - The corpse of a historical figure who dies at the estate of an Armenian noble is thrown into a river in a novel by this author. [PWR]
  - After rescuing a man from the sack of Constantinople, the protagonist of a novel by this author recounts a fifteen-year search for (*) Prester John. [PWR]
  - A philologist witnesses the fictional Tres Society kill his friend, who had helped create the computer Abulafia.
  - In that novel by this author, Abulafia builds a Templar conspiracy known as "The Plan," created satirically by Jacobo Belbo and Edward Causabon.
  - For 10 points, name this author whose background in medieval history inspired his novels Baudolino and Foucault's Pendulum. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco (The first sentence is from "How to Travel with a Salmon." The Italian word for "lawyer" is "avvocato.")
  - In an essay, this author describes asking for a lawyer and being brought an avocado after he calls his hotel dresser the "backroom of a [Prohibition] speakeasy." This author discussed how "holography could only prosper in America" in an essay partially about Superman's Fortress of Solitude.
  - This author used Disneyland to illustrate artificial copies designed to be more real than their originals in the essay "Travels in Hyperreality." The protagonist of a novel by this author has his first sexual experience with a peasant girl before that girl is arrested by inquisitor Bernard Gui.
  - In that novel by this author, the monk Jorge of Burgos poisons the pages of Aristotle's Poetics in order to commit murders that are investigated by Adso of Melk and William of Baskerville.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian author of The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In one essay, this author sarcastically describes a trip through customs carrying a body that he had bludgeoned to death "with a rare Cellini saltcellar." He describes "the unmistakable odor of feet marinated in dishwater" in "How to Use the Coffeepot from Hell," an essay in the collection How to Travel with a Salmon. [PWR]
  - A character in another of this author's novels interprets a manuscript as a delivery list for roses, and a ghost exposes another character as not actually being the (*) Comte Saint-Germain.
  - This author wrote novels about a man who recounts his experiences searching for Prester John's kingdom to Niketas Choniates  and a computer that creates connections between random words to help Belbo, Diotallevi, and Casaubon develop "The Plan." For 10 points, name this Italian author of Baudolino and Foucault's Pendulum. [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In an essay, this author noted that the frequent use of the phrase "more to come" is an example of how one can easily become accustomed to having "more than you might want." In another essay, this author wrote about how he could not communicate with a hotel clerk who only spoke a dialect that was native to Kefiristan during the time of Alexander the Great. [PWR]
  - In that essay, he recalls repeatedly removing bottles of alcohol from a minibar to store a (*) cooked fish he bought at the airport. [PWR]
  - An essay by this author begins by attributing the success of holography to a country's obsession with realism and uses the term "fortress of solitude" to describe structures like the LBJ Library and Disneyland.
  - In a novel, this author of Travels in Hyperreality wrote of Belbo, Diotallevi and Casaubon, who invent a conspiracy theory known as "The Plan." For 10 points name this Italian semiotician who wrote Foucault's Pendulum. [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - This man hoped to meld an osteria with a cyber cafe in his late 1990s idea for a project called the Multimedia Arcade.
  - In one of his essays, he argues that Giorgio Napolitano is ultimately to blame for Christ's crucifixion.
  - Independent of Edward Mendelson, this man claimed that the "Macintosh is counter-reformist and has been influenced by the 'ratio studiorum' of the Jesuits" in an essay declaring that Macs are Catholic and PCs are Protestant.
  - A collection of essays by this man on such topics as Harry Potter and Stephen Hawking originally appeared in his column "Minerva's Matchbook" and takes its title from a mysterious saying of Pluto from Dante's Inferno.
  - This author of the recent collection Chronicles of a Liquid Society wrote an essay in which a computer glitch at a hotel causes a delay in him putting a fish he bought in Stockholm in a minibar fridge.
  - "How to Travel with a Salmon" is an essay by, for 10 points, what author of The Name of the Rose? [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In a novel by this author, a man discovers a picture book from which the novel takes its title before regaining part of his memory when he finds an original copy of the First Folio. [PWR]
  - One of this author's characters confesses to a man that he had sex with a peasant girl after being asked about the ox heart he is carrying.
  - In one of this author's novels, a man marooned on a ship muses on his imaginary evil twin and ponders the title (*) island on the other side of the International Date Line.
  - One novel by this author climaxes with a monk named Jorge burning down a labyrinthine library to stymie the search for Aristotle's lost treatise on comedy.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Island of the Day Before who created Adso of Melk and William of Baskerville in The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In one essay, this author outlined the nine possible plot moves that can occur in the storyline of a James Bond novel. [PWR]
  - This author of "Narrative Structures in Fleming" claimed that the puns in Finnegan's Wake employ hidden metonymic connections in their metaphoric substitutions, thus providing the model for a Global Semantic System in "The Semantics of Metaphor".
  - He suggested that texts are networks of messages that are designed to be actualized by a ModelReader. [PWR]
  - One essay by him suggests that the LBJ library in Austin, the waxworks museums on Fisherman's Wharf, (*) Superman's Fortress of Solitude, andDisneyland inspire "faith in fakes". [PWR]
  - This author of The Role of the Reader and "Travels in Hyperreality" wrote a novel whose protagonists use Colonel Ardenti's manuscript about the Knights Templar as the basis for a fake conspiracy theory called The Plan.
  - For 10 points name this Italian semiotician, who also wrote fiction works like Foucault's Pendulum. [GIVE]

[T13] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In one novel by this writer, Roberto della Griva is marooned on an island he thinks is on the international date line.
  - In another of his novels, Abbe adds to the diary of the forger, Simonini, while he sleeps.
  - Another novel by this author sees the friends who made up "The Plan" come to believe it to be true, and Belbo is hanged from the titular scientific instrument in Paris.
  - William of Baskerville investigates a monastic murder in the debut novel of, for 10 points, which Italian author of Baudolino, The Prague Cemetery, Foucault's Pendulum and The Name of the Rose? [GIVE]

[T14] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - In one work by this author, a character disguised as Abbe Dalla Piccola strangles Diana Vaughan to death after impregnating her at a Satanist orgy. [PWR]
  - In another of his novels, a prostitute is accused of witchcraft by Bernard Gui. [PWR]
  - This author who wrote about the anti-semitic forger Captain Simonelli also included the allegedly immortal Count Aglee in another novel. [PWR]
  - Another character of this author deduces the whereabouts of a horse named Brunellus and solves a mystery involving a lost book on comedy by Aristotle. [PWR]
  - In one novel by this author of (*) The Prague Cemetery, random sentences connected by the computer Abulafia are constructed into The Plan by Belbo and Casaubon.
  - For 10 points, name this author who depicted the creators of a fictional conspiracy theory in Foucault's Pendulum and wrote about Adso of Melk and William of Baskerville in his Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - One of this author's essays concludes that, if the characters in the film you are watching take longer than you'd like to get from A to B, you are watching a porno.
  - This author wrote an "illustrated essay" that puts forth a "rhetoric of enumeration" necessary to construct the title objects.
  - Another book by this writer is a natural history of imaginary places that have created "flows of belief" from time immemorial.
  - This author of The Book of Legendary Lands wrote an essay asking why Dumas anachronistically situated the Rue Servandoni in the Paris of 1625.
  - The first edition of this author's analysis of beauty in the Middle Ages comes packaged with his book On Ugliness.
  - This author of The Infinity of Lists, Serendipities, and Six Walks in the Fictional Woods wrote an essay in which he recalls being charged for alcohol in a mini-bar, which he removed to make room for the title fish.
  - For 10 points, name this literary theorist who wrote How to Travel with a Salmon, an Italian novelist also known for The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - One of this author's essays includes fragments from an detailed manual for an appliance called the "PZ40" and from a questionnaire asking questions like "Would you rather spend your vacation with an eighty year old leper or Demi Moore?", asserting that the writing of those things is among the title "Remunerative Professions".
  - Another of his essays compares the Lyndon B. [PWR]
  - Johnson Presidential Library to Superman's Fortress of Solitude while describing instances in which "the American imagination demands the real thing and, to attain it, must fabricate the absolute fake"; that essay was originally called (*) "Faith in Fakes". [PWR]
  - In the title essay of another of his collections, he described communication difficulties at a hotel causing him to be charged for consuming astronomical amounts of minibar alcohol, which he had actually moved to safely store a certain smoked fish.
  - For 10 points, name this prolific essayist of Travels in Hyperreality and How to Travel with a Salmon, also the author of such novels as Baudolino and The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T17] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - A collection of works by this author includes the hypothetical television media coverage of the landing of Columbus and a parody of Lolita in which the narrator falls in loves with the elderly Granita.
  - In one novel by him, love letters to Lady Lilia are written by a man tasked with discovering the secret of longitude named Roberto della Griva.
  - In one novel by this author of Misreadings, the protagonist debates with a blind man as to whether Jesus Christ ever laughed and Venantius's corpse is found in a vat of pig's blood before Bernardo Gui's inquisition.
  - This author, who wrote of a man who believes himself shipwrecked on the International Date Line in The Island of the Day Before, also wrote a novel in which Adso of Melk assists William of Baskerville in investigating a series of murders at a medieval abbey.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian author of The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - This thinker mocked the "Followers of the Veil" for allowing the Inferno to convince them that Dante was a secret Templar in a set of lectures collected along with a response describing the "Pragmatist's Progress" from Richard Rorty.
  - He called Ulysses a "summa turned upside down" in his The Aesthetics of Chaosmos, while his best known aesthetic work drew from Richards and Ogden's The Meaning of Meaning to extoll "openness" as central goal of art.
  - This author of Interpretation and Overinterpretation decried Casablanca as a random assortment of unrelated concepts in a collection updated as (*) Travels in Hyperreality, his Faith in Fakes, which draws from his extensive study of semiotics. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, identify this Italian thinker who incorporated his philosophical ideas into works like The Prague Cemetery, The Island of the Day Before, Foucault's Pendulum, and The Name of the Rose. [GIVE]

[T19] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Umberto Eco
  - This author drew a nested diagram to illustrate how a narrator and a reader might differently interpret Gerard de Nerval's sentence "Illusions fall like the husk of a fruit" in one of his six Charles Eliot Norton lectures about his life as a reader.
  - One of his essays parodies literary criticism by analyzing a comic poem about three owls having sex on a chest of drawers.
  - This author argued that performers of Stockhausen's pieces interpret the score in different ways, making those pieces examples of "open works." He founded the journal Versus, to which he contributed many articles that reject the idea of signs being likenesses of objects.
  - This author wrote a novel in which three editors use Colonel Ardenti's book about the Knights Templar to construct a conspiracy theory using their computer, Abulafia.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian semiotician, the author of Foucault's Pendulum. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This thinker defines beauty as "that which pleases when seen" in a book also containing five proofs for the existence of God. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saint Thomas Aquinas [or Tommaso d'Aquino; prompt on Saint Thomas or Santo Tommaso]):
    Name this Scholastic philosopher who wrote Summa Theologica.
  Part 2 (ans: goodness [accept absence of good or privation of good; accept Form of the Good]):
    In the Summa, Aquinas equates beauty with this concept, which is absent in the privation theory of another concept. Philosopher-kings should seek to have knowledge of the Form of this concept according to Plato.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This thinker claimed to be rid of his faith after his work on Thomas Aquinas which led him to write The Development of Medieval Aesthetics. This developer of "interpretative semiotics" was inspired by Baudrillard for an essay that analyzes Disneyland.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author surveyed the literary history of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion in one of his Six Walks in the Fictional Woods. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Umberto Eco ):
    What author wrote of Simone Simonini forging the Protocols in The Prague Cemetery and drew on them as inspiration for "The Plan" in Foucault's Pendulum?
  Part 2 (ans: The Mysteries of Paris [or Les Mysteres de Paris] (by Eugene Sue. The genre is the "city mystery.")):
    Eco claims the Protocols plagiarized Maurice Joly's play The Dialogue in Hell, which itself plagiarized this novel. This best-selling serial novel spawned an urban genre imitated by writers like Paul Feval and George Lippard.
  Part 3 (ans: Danilo Kis ("keesh")):
    Eco's depiction of Sergei Nilus in Foucault's Pendulum adapts this author's story about the Protocols, "The Book of Kings and Fools." That story appears in this Serbian author's postmodern collection The Encyclopedia of the Dead.

[B3] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author discussed Hearst Castle after an analysis of the reproduction Last Suppers found in wax museums across California. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    Name this author who expanded Baudrillard's analysis of Disneyland in "Travels in Hyperreality." William Weaver translated this author's essay collection How To Travel With A Salmon.
  Part 2 (ans: Fortresses of Solitude [prompt on fortresses]):
    These "museums of memories," or Wunderkammern, title the opening section of the essay "Travels in Hyperreality," where the Lyndon B. Johnson Presidential Library is cited as one of these places. A Jonathan Lethem novel titled for one of these locations follows Dylan Ebdus and Mingus Rude.
  Part 3 (ans: robots [or automatons; accept the Laws of Robotics; prompt on copies of Superman]):
    In "Travels in Hyperreality," the Fortress of Solitude is said to be filled with these beings, who also populate ghost towns and Disneyland. Eco coins the term "fac-different" with an analogy to Isaac Asimov, who formulated three laws governing these beings.

[B4] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: The term for this process emerged from C.S. Pierce's and Ferdinand de Saussure's attempts to relate language to human and nonhuman sign processes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: semiosis):
    Name this process that consists of a triadic relationship between a representamen, an object, and an interpretant.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This Italian thinker proposed the categories of recognition, ostension, replica, and invention in A Theory of Semiotics. This thinker also wrote The Name of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: Roland Barthes [Roland Gerard Barthes]):
    This author described the semiotics of professional wrestling as "suffering, defeat and justice" in his essay, "World of Wrestling." This author also wrote an essay arguing against relying on the writer's intentions or biographies to explain textual meaning.

[B5] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, a scholar of this author named Venantius cites this author's discussion of metaphors to argue that Adelmo's illustrations of fantastical beasts could reveal the truth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aristotle):
    Name this author of a work whose lost second book is poisoned by Jorge de Burgos, who then eats it when William of Baskerville and Adso of Melk confront him in the finis Africae.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    Aristotle's Poetics is referenced in many philosophical debates woven throughout this author's novel The Name of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: penitence [or penance; or paenitentia; accept penitenziagite]):
    In another philosophical digression, William tells a confused Adso that the epoch of this practice is over, because the need for it became a need for death. Inspired by Fra Dolcino ("dol-CHEE-noh"), the cellarer ("SELL-uh-rer") Salvatore frequently repeats a Latin command to perform this practice.

[B6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Too Loud a Solitude, a novel written by an author from this country, the protagonist smuggles large amounts of books home from his job. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czechoslovakia [or Czech Republic; or Czechia] (The other novel is The Unbearable Lightness of Being by Milan Kundera.)):
    Name this country. In another novel written by an author from this country, the protagonist loses his job as a surgeon because of an editorial he wrote comparing the government to Oedipus.
  Part 2 (ans: Auto-da-Fe [or The Blinding; or Die Blendung; or The Tower of Babel] (by Elias Canetti.)):
    The protagonist of this novel, Herr Doktor Peter Kien, sleeps on a small divan so that his apartment has more room for his massive private library, which he believes is the largest in the city and values more than people.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    Jorge of Burgos commits suicide by eating the poisoned pages of Aristotle's Poetics and setting a library on fire in this author's novel The Name of the Rose.

[B7] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An illusionist describes this character's name as one that "preserve[s] the historical traditions of the Fatherland" before mimicking the voice of this character's love Silvestra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario [accept Mario and the Magician or Mario und der Zauberer (by Thomas Mann)]):
    Name this title character of a novella who, after being made to kiss a hypnotist on stage, shoots that hypnotist twice before a mob swarms upon him.
  Part 2 (ans: fascism [prompt on totalitarianism or authoritarianism or Nazism]):
    The hypnotist Cipolla is often read as an allegorical leader of this ideology. Fourteen features of this ideology are listed in an essay whose author recalls being disappointed after hearing Benito Mussolini speak live.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco (The novel is Numero Zero.)):
    This author listed the fourteen features in "Ur-Fascism." Braggadocio becomes convinced that Mussolini survived World War II while two hack journalists have an affair in a novel by this author.

[B8] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A review of this novel in the Vatican newspaper L'Osservatore ("loh-SAIR-vah-TOR-ay") Romano criticized its "continuous description of Jewish villainy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prague Cemetery [or Il cimitero di Praga]):
    Name this picaresque novel about "the most hateful man in the world," the fictional antisemite Simone Simonini, and his role in 19th-century European history.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This author wrote The Prague Cemetery. Characters discuss the persecution of the Dulcinians and fear the cruel Bernard Gui in this Italian author's novel The Name of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: Foucault's Pendulum [or Il pendolo di Foucault]):
    In this Eco novel, Belbo uses his computer Abulafia to help implement "the Plan" alongside Casaubon and Diotallevi, with whom he invents a secret society. This novel's climax takes place at an industrial design museum.

[B9] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about European authors who wrote about amnesiacs, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: J. M. G. Le Clezio [or Jean-Marie Gustave Le Clezio]):
    This author memorably depicted the amnesia of Adam Pollo, who cannot remember whether he has deserted the army or escaped from a psychiatric ward while in a seaside town, in his novel The Interrogation. He also wrote Fish of Gold.
  Part 2 (ans: Luigi Pirandello):
    This author created an amnesiac aristocrat who falls off his horse and believes himself to be a Holy Roman Emperor in the play Enrico IV. This Italian playwright also wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco (The unnamed novel is Foucault's Pendulum.)):
    Yambo loses his memories after a stroke in this author's novel The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana. In another novel by this author, the computer Abulafia suggests that the Knights Templar are using "telluric currents."

[B10] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After traveling for a year, a character is disillusioned from this organization after they are apathetic to his new ideas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Freemasons [or Masons; or Freemasonry; accept word forms]):
    Name this organization that Bazdeyev convinces Pierre to join in order to find meaning in life in a subplot of an 1869 novel.
  Part 2 (ans: War and Peace [or Vojna i mir]):
    Pierre Bezhukov joins the Freemasons and marries Natasha Rostova in this lengthy Leo Tolstoy novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Foucault's Pendulum (by Umberto Eco)):
    Freemasons are among the many secret societies involved in a giant conspiracy theory called the Plan, which is devised by Casaubon and two other editors at a publishing house in this novel.

[B11] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Answer the following about poisonous books, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    A poisoned copy of Aristotle's Poetics is discovered during William of Baskerville's investigation of a monastery in this writer's The Name of the Rose.
  Part 2 (ans: green (The other precursor of Paris green is arsenic trioxide.)):
    In 2018, the University of Southern Denmark discovered toxic pigments of this color within three books in their library. One of those pigments of this color is named "Paris" and is partially composed of copper(II) ("copper-two") acetate.
  Part 3 (ans: wallpaper [prompt on paper]):
    Michigan State University maintains a copy of a book by Robert Kedzie that contained hazardous samples of this product that used Scheele's green. Jean-Baptiste Reveillon's ("reh-vay-YON's") factory made this product for Marie Antoinette.

[B12] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel set under this government, the protagonist kills both a defrocked priest who propositions him and his neighbor, a dissident university professor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fascist Italy [prompt on fascism; prompt on Italy; accept the Mussolini regime]):
    Name this government, the setting of The Conformist, which was critiqued in an essay that lists 14 principles of its ideology, including a cult of tradition, action for action's sake, and selective populism.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    The latter essay, "Ur-Fascism" was written by this author, better known for his novels Foucault's Pendulum and The Name of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: Newspeak (from Nineteen Eighty-Four)):
    The final principle of Eco's essay claims that "Ur-Fascism speaks" this language. The appendix of a novel claims this "official language of Oceania" was "devised to meet the ideological needs of Ingsoc ("ING-sohsh")."

[B13] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story in this collection, the narrator and Lieutenant Fenimore compete for the affection of Ursula as the three of them travel through space on parallel paths, never to meet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cosmicomics [or Le cosmicomiche]):
    Name this collection that includes the stories "The Form of Space" and "The Distance of the Moon." Most of its stories are narrated by a being called Qfwfq ("kuh-FOOF-kuh").
  Part 2 (ans: Italo Calvino):
    Cosmicomics is by this Italian author of If on a winter's night a traveler.
  Part 3 (ans: signs [do not accept or prompt on "symbols"] (The other Italian author is Umberto Eco.)):
    In a story from Cosmicomics, Qfwfq makes one of these things in space, only for Kgwgk ("kuh-GOOG-kuh") to destroy it. An Italian author who co-founded the journal Versus for the study of these things argued in a 1975 book that "natural" examples of these things deserve as much consideration as "artificial" ones.

[B14] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character asks "Have you found any places where God would have felt at home?" after someone says "we are living in a place abandoned by God." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William of Baskerville [prompt on William]):
    Name this character who gathers a peculiar herb and eats it in "moments of great tension."
  Part 2 (ans: The Name of the Rose [or Il nome della rosa]):
    William of Baskerville appears in this novel. At the end, Jorge kills himself by burning down the library.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    The Name of the Rose was written by this Italian novelist and critic. He wrote Foucault's Pendulum.

[B15] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One of the earliest exposes of this regime was a novel that ends with a woman running into a snowstorm with food and clothes for a political agitator who lives a double life as a priest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fascist Italy [accept descriptive answers such as Italy under Mussolini; prompt on answers mentioning Italy alone]):
    Name this regime, the setting of the novel Bread and Wine. A petty bureaucrat aims to curry the favor of this regime by plotting the assassination of an exiled professor in the novel The Conformist.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    The paranoiac Braggadocio informs the hack journalist Colonna that Mussolini survived World War II in Numero Zero, the final published novel by this Italian author of The Name of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: Quo Vadis?):
    A scale model originally constructed as part of an architectural exhibition hosted by Mussolini showcases Nero's grandiloquent redesign of Rome in the 1951 MGM film adaptation of this Henryk Sienkiewicz ("shen-KYEH-vich") novel.

[B16] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In 1997, Spanish novelist Javier Marias was bequeathed the monarchy of an uninhabited Caribbean island called Redonda. For 10 points each, name some of his dukes and duchesses.
  Part 1 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This author was named Duke of the Island of the Day Before, in reference to his novel of that title. He also wrote Foucault's Pendulum.
  Part 2 (ans: Alice Munro):
    This Canadian author was named Duchess of Ontario. Her Juliet stories are included in Runaway, and her most recent collections are Too Much Happiness and Dear Life.
  Part 3 (ans: Pedro Almodovar):
    This director was named Duke of Tremula, in reference to the original title of his film Live Flesh. His most recent film is a Spanish-language adaptation of Munro's Juliet stories called Julieta.

[B17] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A series by this author ends with the narrator receiving two dolls in the mail which she and her friend had thrown away. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    Name this reclusive Italian author who wrote about her friendship with Lila and her escape from a poor neighborhood in the Neapolitan Novels. She is possibly the translator Anita Raja.
  Part 2 (ans: brilliant [accept My Brilliant Friend or My Brilliant Career]):
    The first of the Neapolitan Novels describes the precocious Lila as "my [this adjective] friend". A Miles Franklin novel describes the writing career of the independent-minded Sybylla Melvyn with this adjective.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This other modern Italian author wrote about a geographically-encoded labyrinthine library that burns down during the investigations of William of Baskerville and Adso of Melk in The Name of the Rose.

[B18] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This author's journal and notebook collection As Consciousness is Harnessed to Flesh described her compulsion to compile lists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Susan Sontag):
    Name this American author who explained "There is an aggression implicit in every use of the camera" and a "non-intervention" in the essay On Photography.
  Part 2 (ans: Roland Gerard Barthes):
    Prior to Susan Sontag, this philosopher wrote an autobiography explaining his penchant for lists. He also constructed a framework for finding the noeme, or essence, of photography in a book entitled Camera Lucida.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This author proclaimed that "the list is the origin of culture" and wrote the illustrated essay collection "The Infinity of Lists." He also compiled 14 typical features of fascism in his essay "Ur-Fascism, or Eternal Fascism."

[B19] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author has asserted that "books, once they are written, have no need of their authors." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elena Ferrante):
    This year, a controversial article by Claudio Gatti claimed to identify translator Anita Raja as this elusive pseudonymous best-selling author of La Frantumaglia.
  Part 2 (ans: Luther Blissett):
    This other pseudonym was used to publish the 1999 Italian novel Q, set during the Protestant Reformation. This nom-de-plume has been repeatedly reused by authors and artists, becoming an "open pop star."
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This Italian author sometimes used the pseudonym Dedalus, but used his own name for works like Faith in Fakes: Travels in Hyperreality, Serendipities, Six Walks in the Fictional Woods, and, most recently, Numero Zero.

[B20] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel, a man who suffered from amnesia and used a diary to attempt to regain his memory, was intended by its author to be as unlikable as possible. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prague Cemetery [or Il cimitero di Praga]):
    Name this novel that includes many events set into motion by the machinations of Abbe Dalla Piccola, who alters the diary entries of the protagonist during his sleep.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This Italian author of The Name of the Rose and Foucault's Pendulum wrote The Prague Cemetery.
  Part 3 (ans: The Plan [or Il Piano]):
    In Foucault's Pendulum, Belbo, Diotallevi, and Casaubon develop this fictional scheme of the Knights Templar, which leads other conspiracy theorists to believe the secret to a lost Templar treasure has been discovered.

[B21] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Jorge of Burgos condemned this work because of its association with the "infidel Moors." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the second volume of Aristotle's Poetics [or Aristotle's treatise on comedy; accept clear equivalents; prompt on Poetics]):
    Name this work which led to the deaths of Adelmo, Berengar, and Venantius Salvermec. Jorge had poisoned its pages because of its analysis of comedy, which he believed led to the destruction of faith.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    This author wrote about William of Baskerville's attempts to solve the murders of Adelmo, Berengar, and Venantius at a Benedictine Monastery in The Name of the Rose.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana):
    In this other novel by Eco, the amnesiac protagonist Yambo discovers Shakespeare's First Folio among his grandfather's books. The shock of the discovery causes him to relive the lost memories of his childhood.

[B22] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's title character tells his life story to Niketas Choniates after saving his life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Baudolino):
    Name this novel about an Italian peasant who becomes the adopted son of Frederick Barbarossa and journeys to look for the kingdom of Prester John.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    Baudolino is by this novelist, who also wrote The Name of the Rose and Foucault's Pendulum.
  Part 3 (ans: Alberto Moravia [or Alberto Pincherle]):
    Another 20th-century Italian novelist is this author whose many books to be turned into films include Contempt and The Conformist. He was married to the novelist Elsa Morante.

[B23] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work, this man offered the statements "he has a homosexual relation with Batman" and "he got a B. A. at the Gotham City College" as two of four possible responses to the stimulus "Robin is a bachelor." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    Name this semiotician, the author of The Role of the Reader, The Poetics of the Open Work, and A Theory of Semiotics.
  Part 2 (ans: fabula):
    Eco's essay on metanarrative in Allais's Un drame bien parisien is titled after a "Lector in" this concept from Russian formalism, which denotes the chronological order of the events in a story and is contrasted with sjuzhet.
  Part 3 (ans: Superman [or Clark Kent]):
    In addition to his fiction writing, Eco's more popular works include an essay on the "Myth of" this hero figure, whom Eco notes "arrived here as a youth from the planet Krypton."

[B24] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Casaubon, Belbo and Diotallevi develop their own conspiracy theory called The Plan, in this novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Foucault's Pendulum [or Il pendolo di Foucault]):
    Identify this novel in which the Count of St. Germain appears in ectoplasmic form in front of the title object.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    In addition to Foucault's Pendulum, this man wrote The Name of the Rose and a pair of books on aesthetics titled On Beauty and On Ugliness.
  Part 3 (ans: The Prague Cemetery):
    This most recent novel of Eco's further indulges his love of conspiracy theories by weaving together, among other popular topics, the Templars, the Illuminati, Dreyfuss Affair and The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.

[B25] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In honor of the recently deceased Italian translator William Weaver, name some authors he translated, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    Weaver translated Baudolino, Foucault's Pendulum, The Name of the Rose, and many other works by this author.
  Part 2 (ans: Primo Michele Levi):
    Weaver translated The Monkey's Wrench, this author's novel about the rigger Libertino Faussone. He also translated this author's novel about Mendel Dajcher's participation in the resistance movement, If Not Now, When?
  Part 3 (ans: Oriana Fallaci):
    Weaver translated A Man, a novel based on this journalist's relationship with Alexandros Panagoulis. She is better known for her interviews, many of which are collected in Interviews with History, and for her criticism of Islam.
