=== STOCK CLUES: Ungaretti ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 3 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Giuseppe Ungaretti
  - The speaker contemplates "the boundless silence / of a slender girl" so that "Our two / maladies / run together," in this author's poem "Nostalgia." The sight of a "slain comrade" with "clawed fingers / ripping / into my silence" and "mouth snarling / at the full moon" prompts the speaker to declare: "Never did I / so / cling to life," in this author's poem "Vigil," which appears alongside his other verses written while serving in the trenches of World War I in his book The Buried Port.
  - English-language editions of this man's poetry often opt not to translate his poem "Morning," which reads, in its entirety, (*) "M'illumino / d'immenso." In attacking the arcane verses of this poet's 1933 collection The Feeling of Time, the critic Francesco Flora coined the name for a group of poets to which he belonged alongside the future Nobel Laureates Salvatore Quasimodo and Eugenio Montale.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian poet who founded the Hermetic school of poetry. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Carlo Bo expounded a movement named for this figure in an essay in Il Frontespizio that conceptualized literature "as life." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hermes Trismegistus [accept Hermeticism or Ermetismo; accept hermetic poetry] (Both collections are by Giuseppe Ungaretti.)):
    Francesco Flora gave what figure's name to a school of dense 1930s poetry? That movement named for this figure is usually traced to the collections L'allegria and Sentimento del tempo.
  Part 2 (ans: Guillaume Apollinaire [or Wilhelm Albert Wlodzimierz Apolinary Kostrowicki]):
    Giuseppe Ungaretti's hermetic turn was influenced by this fellow soldier and personal friend. This writer, who invoked Hermes Trismegistus in the first stanza of "The Bestiary," wrote the long poem Zone.
  Part 3 (ans: Cesare Pavese ("CHEZ-ar-ay pa-VAY-zay")):
    The "ambiguous god" Hermes speaks with Chiron in one of this poet's Dialogues with Leuco. The complete poems of this self-described "mythic" writer were translated into English by Geoffrey Brock as Disaffections.

[B2] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote about "dying like thirsty larks upon a mirage" in his poem "Agony", which appears in his collection Allegria, an expansion of his earlier collection The Joy of Shipwrecks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giuseppe Ungaretti):
    Name this Italian poet and one-time member of the Futurist movement.
  Part 2 (ans: Hermeticism):
    Giuseppe Ungaretti and Salvatore Quasimodo were two poets of this Italian movement, whose name alludes to the dense style of a certain "thrice-great" mythological figure.
  Part 3 (ans: Death):
    Another poem by Ungaretti consists of six cantos of meditations on this concept. It is said to be slave to "fate, chance, kings, and desperate men" in a poem by John Donne that implores it to "be not proud."

[B3] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem is broken into three sections: "The Genesis," "The Passion," and "The Gloria." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: To Axion Esti - It Is Worthy [or The Axion Esti]):
    Name this long poem by Odysseas Elytis, which is named for a Marian hymn from Greek Orthodox liturgy.
  Part 2 (ans: elegies):
    Elytis wrote a set of poems of this type named for Oxopetra. Rilke wrote a set of poems in this genre that begins with the line "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?"
  Part 3 (ans: Giuseppe Ungaretti):
    Elytis translated the works of many of his European poets, including this Italian poet of L'Allegria and The Buried Harbor. Along with Salvatore Quasimodo, he was a major figure in the Hermeticist movement.

[B4] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: While fighting on the trenches of World War I, this author wrote "I Fiumi," or "The Rivers," which he later included in his collection L'Allegria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giuseppe Ungaretti):
    Name this Italian poet, whose poem "Mattina," or "Morning," consists entirely of the lines "M'illumino / d'immenso."
  Part 2 (ans: Hermeticism [or Ermetismo; or Hermetic poetry]):
    Francesco Flora coined the name of this Italian literary movement to describe Ungaretti's poetry. Salvatore Quasimodo and Eugenio Montale are often grouped under this movement, whose poems are usually brief and feature esoteric or obscure language.
  Part 3 (ans: Cesare Pavese):
    This Italian poet of Dialogues with Leuco wrote the love poem "Death Will Come and Will Have Your Eyes" just before committing suicide in 1950. He produced the Italian translations of many American authors, including Sherwood Anderson, Melville and Faulkner.

[B5] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One exponent of this movement, Mario Luzi, wrote a poetic sequence in which the title painter travels from Avignon to Siena in The Earthly and Heavenly Journey of Simone Martini. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hermeticism [accept word forms]):
    Name this poetic movement that venerates using challenging words to convey obscure ideas, and whose exponents include Salvatore Quasimodo and Eugenio Montale.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Ungaretti):
    The Joy of Shipwrecks and The Feeling of Time are poetry collections by this third major figure of the Hermetic movement, who wrote many of his works while living in Brazil.
  Part 3 (ans: Futurism):
    Giuseppe Ungaretti's The War contains pro-war poems like "Brothers," a view espoused by this group of poets and artists who praised the beauty of speed. Its manifesto was written by Filippo Marinetti.
