=== STOCK CLUES: Spike Lee ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 On Cinema at the Buzzer (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: David Byrne (The first clue is about Spike Lee's concert film American Utopia.)
  - This person talks about how adults lose their brain plasticity and reach a "plateau of stupidity" at the beginning of a film that opens with an overhead shot of this person holding a model of a human brain. [PWR]
  - In a review of another film, Pauline Kael wrote that "there's something unknowable and almost autistic" about this person, who she calls a "stupefying performer" who "bobs his head like a chicken." At the beginning of that 1984 film, the camera holds tight on this person's white sneakers as he walks down a (*) stage and places a cassette player on the ground. [PWR]
  - Classical Japanese theater inspired the ridiculously large suit worn by this man during the song "Girlfriend Is Better" in a Jonathan Demme film.
  - For 10 points, name this singer who appears in the concert film Stop Making Sense. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Fall (2022) | Diff: 6 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]
  - In one of this director's films, a character rubs ice cubes over his girlfriend's body after complaining that he wants his son to speak English, saying "it's bad enough his name is Hector." In a film by this director, a character is asked if they are "circumstanced" by Felix Kendrickson during a polygraph test, after which a police officer throws a rock through a kitchen window as a distraction.
  - In one of his films, this director played Mookie, who throws a trash can through the window of Sal's Pizzeria after the death of Radio Raheem.
  - In a 2018 film by this director, Ron Stallworth impersonates a white nationalist over the phone to join a chapter of the Ku Klux Klan.
  - For 10 points, name this director of the "joints" BlacKkKlansman and Do the Right Thing. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Reel Knowledge (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Spike Lee
  - In one film, this director's camera rolls upside down as an upset man reads a newspaper on the street, and in another his camera rotates right as a man holding a trumpet mimes playing it with his other hand.
  - The cinematographer for a film by this director, Ernest Dickerson, lit a can of fuel below the camera to make the shot look like a hot summer day. [PWR]
  - In a film by this director, two friends of the protagonist discuss the future of their friendship while standing by a window overlooking (*) Ground Zero. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of that film delivers a long monologue, accompanied by a montage where different ethnic groups in a city look into the camera, after he reads the words "Fuck You" written on the wall of his father's bar.
  - In a similar sequence, this director's camera zooms in on characters standing in the street making long-winded racial stereotype insults directly into the camera.
  - That sequence takes place after Mookie, played by this director, asks a co-worker about his favourite celebrities, who are all white like the pictures on the wall.
  - For 10 points, identify this director of the 25th Hour, and a joint about Sal's Pizzeria, Do the Right Thing. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Spike Lee [Shelton Jackson Lee]
  - A character created by this director curses at two grocery store owners to check the dates on twenty D batteries and is told "motherfucker you!" This director created a Greek-chorus-like trio of three men, including Coconut Sid and ML. [PWR]
  - This director had a man wearing a Celtics T-shirt drink a carton of orange juice while running over a new pair of shoes with his bike. [PWR]
  - In that movie by this director, Mister Senor Love Daddy repeatedly says "and that's the truth, Ruth!" and announces how (*) hot it is. [PWR]
  - That movie by this director ends with a still of a photo the mentally disabled man Smiley had been trying to sell, of MLK and Malcolm X shaking hands.
  - This director depicted a riot that destroys a pizzeria after Sal takes a bat to Radio Raheem's jukebox, which plays "Fight the Power" by Public Enemy.
  - For 10 points, name this director of Do the Right Thing. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This type of place titles a black horror anthology film by Rusty Cundieff framed around Mr. Simms's mortuary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the hood [or neighborhood] (The films are, respectively, Tales from the Hood and Boyz n the Hood.)):
    Name this type of place that titles a film whose postscript reveals that Doughboy, played by Ice Cube, was soon murdered. That John Singleton gang film titled for this type of place is about the teen Tre Styles.
  Part 2 (ans: Eve Batiste [accept Eve's Bayou; prompt on Batiste]):
    In a 1997 black horror film, this clairvoyant girl has a witch place a curse on her adulterous father, played by Samuel L. Jackson. That film, the directorial debut of Kasi Lemmons, is partly titled for this Louisiana native.
  Part 3 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    This director remade the 1973 black horror film Ganja & Hess as Da Sweet Blood of Jesus. This director, who also remade Oldboy and High and Low, collaborated with Denzel Washington on the biopic Malcolm X.

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two answers required. A character wrestles his two hands to demonstrate a conflict between these two words, but coyly places the losing hand representing Cain, on top of the other after the display. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: love AND hate):
    Give these two words tattooed across the fingers of a serial killer disguised as a preacher and played by Robert Mitchum in the film The Night of the Hunter.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    Radio Raheem delivers a similar speech about Cain while wearing knuckle rings reading "love" and "hate" in Do the Right Thing, a "joint" by this director of Malcolm X and BlacKkKlansman.
  Part 3 (ans: Cape Fear):
    Several verses from the King James Bible appear tattooed on the antagonist of this film, the largest being a cross doubling as the scales of justice on his back. This 1991 remake of a Robert Mitchum film depicts a serial killer stalking his lawyer.

[B3] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In April 2023, the Met Opera staged this composer's opera about the Black boxer Emile Griffith. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Terence Blanchard):
    name this composer of Champion, whose opera Fire Shut Up in My Bones was staged by the Met in 2021.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee):
    Blanchard received nominations for Academy Awards for creating the film scores for Da 5 Bloods and BlacKkKlansman, two films by this director.
  Part 3 (ans: New Orleans, Louisiana):
    Blanchard collaborated with Lee to compose the score to a documentary about Hurricane Katrina's devastation of this city titled When the Levees Broke: A Requiem in Four Acts.

[B4] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Along with Hannah Beachler, this designer took inspiration from Tuareg clothes and the headpieces of the Himba people for costumes of two tribes found in Wakanda. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruth E. Carter):
    Name this Afrofuturist costume designer who became the first African American to win the Oscar for Best Costume Design for her work on Black Panther.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    Carter designed many of the costumes for this director's biopic Malcolm X, including those of Denzel Washington and Angela Bassett. This director's "joints" include Do the Right Thing.
  Part 3 (ans: Selma):
    The costumes for this Ava DuVernay historical drama were also designed by Carter. This film's opening shot depicts the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing as its victims descend a staircase lit by orange light.

[B5] 2024 ACF Fall (2024) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one film, Smiley adds pictures of both Malcolm X and Martin Luther King to this business' Wall of Fame, which previously only had pictures of Italian-Americans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sal's Pizzeria [accept Sal's Pizza; prompt on answers describing the pizzeria or pizza parlor or pizza restaurant from Do the Right Thing]):
    Name this business whose windows are destroyed in that film when its employee Mookie throws a trash can in a riot that leads to the business' destruction.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    This director of Do the Right Thing plays a delivery driver for Sal's Pizzeria named Mookie. Other "joints" by this director include Malcolm X and BlacKkKlansman ("Black Klansman").
  Part 3 (ans: radios [accept boomboxes; accept music players; accept Radio Raheem]):
    Sal destroys one of these things with a baseball bat, causing a brawl with Raheem that later leads to Raheem's death and the riots that destroy Sal's Pizzeria. In the film, Raheem is nicknamed after carrying one of these things.

[B6] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Ruth E. Carter became the first Black woman to win an Oscar in this field with her Afrofuturist designs for Black Panther. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: costumes [or costume design; prompt on clothes or clothing; prompt on design]):
    Name this field whose Oscar was won by Edith Head eight times. Designers in this field for films like 12 Years a Slave pay particular attention to the historical accuracy of what actors wear onscreen.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee] (That film is Do the Right Thing.)):
    Carter deliberately used bright clothes from sponsor Nike for her costumes for a film by this director. In that film, Radio Raheem carries around a boombox playing "Fight the Power."
  Part 3 (ans: Shaft):
    Carter worked on a 2000 John Singleton film with this title starring Samuel L. Jackson. The title character wears a brown leather coat in a 1971 Gordon Parks film with this title whose theme was recorded by Isaac Hayes.

[B7] 2022 Boilermaker Spring Novice (2022) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film's cinematographer, Ernest Dickerson, depicted intense summer heat by using a heat bar under the camera to distort the image. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Do the Right Thing):
    Name this film, which features a montage in which people spew racist hate directly into the camera. Mookie accomplishes this movie's title action by throwing a trash can through the window of Sal's pizzeria.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    Do the Right Thing is a movie by this director, who calls all their films "joints." Their more recent joints include BlacKkKlansman ("black klansman") and Da 5 Bloods.
  Part 3 (ans: the Vietnam War [or Second Indochina War; accept Vietnam Conflict]):
    Da 5 Bloods is about American veterans of this conflict. The Bloods return to the site of this conflict to find gold they had buried in the 1960s, but lost track of after a napalm strike.

[B8] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Huey Newton praised a scene in this film in which the director's underage son Mario encounters a prostitute as "black manhood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sweet Sweetback's Baadasssss Song):
    Name this 1971 Melvin Van Peebles movie commonly identified as the first in the blaxploitation genre.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    This director popularized Van Peebles' usage of the double dolly zoom to represent "black suspicion of the white gaze" in films like Mo' Better Blues and 25th Hour. Dutch angles portray tension between the owner of Sal's Pizzeria and Radio Raheem in a 1989 film by this director.
  Part 3 (ans: Ku Klux Klan [or the KKK; prompt on the Klan alone]):
    Ron Stallworth asks Patrice Dumas whether she prefers Super Fly or Shaft in a 2018 Spike Lee film about a detective who infiltrates this organization. D.W. Griffith's film The Birth of a Nation glorifies this organization.

[B9] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about pioneering costume designer Ruth Carter:
  Part 1 (ans: music videos [prompt on videos]):
    Carter borrowed from one of these artworks to design a gold-studded costume for What's Love Got to Do with It. David Fincher directed one of these works for Madonna's song "Vogue".
  Part 2 (ans: Do The Right Thing (by Spike Lee)):
    Carter asked local artist NaSha to paint a misspelled t-shirt reading "Bed-Stuy" for this film, for which she also designed Radio Raheem's iconic knuckle rings.
  Part 3 (ans: 3D printing):
    Carter unusually used this technique to design many of the costumes for Black Panther. The set of Gilles-Alexandre Deschaud's ("zheel-ah-lek-SOND deh-SHOW'Z") award-winning short film Chase Me was created entirely using this technique.

[B10] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: In this film, one character gets annoyed with their girlfriend for biting them because they 'make [their] living with [their] lips'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mo' Better Blues):
    Name this film, which resulted in accusations from the Anti-Defamation League that the director had been anti-Semitic by portraying two club owners as 'Shylocks'. In one scene in this film, the main character buys two women the same dress, which they both wear to a club on the same night.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee):
    Mo' Better Blues is a film by this director of BlackKklansman and Do The Right Thing.
  Part 3 (ans: She's Gotta Have It):
    Spike Lee's directorial debut was this 1986 film, which centres on Nola Darling cycling between three men and claiming that monogamy is a form of slavery. This film was remade as a Netflix drama series in 2017.

[B11] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: In this film, a man discovers a woman's drowned corpse when his fishing hook snags on her submerged car. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Night of the Hunter):
    Name this film in which Robert Mitchum plays an evil preacher who hunts down two children for the money their father hid in a stuffed doll.
  Part 2 (ans: Lillian Gish [or Lillian Diana Gish]):
    In The Night of the Hunter, the children eventually seek protection from an elderly woman played by this actress. This muse of D. W. Griffith starred in Broken Blossoms and The Birth of a Nation.
  Part 3 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    Radio Raheem recites Night of the Hunter's "left hand/right hand" monologue in a scene from Do the Right Thing, a film by this African American director who also made 25th Hour and Malcolm X.

[B12] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This 1977 film includes a series of low-angle shots of children jumping between rooftops. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Killer of Sheep):
    Name this plotless film comprising a series of vignettes about black life in Watts, where the director grew up. Dinah Washington sings over its final scene in which Stan handles the title animals at his workplace.
  Part 2 (ans: Spike Lee):
    Killer of Sheep was directed by Charles Burnett, whose approach to filmmaking is often contrasted with that of this other black American director of Malcolm X, Do the Right Thing, and the story mode of NBA 2K16.
  Part 3 (ans: The Night of the Hunter):
    In Do the Right Thing, Radio Raheem shows off his rings reading "LOVE" and "HATE" and tells "the story of right hand, left hand" in an homage to a scene from this film noir directed by Charles Laughton. In this film, Robert Mitchum plays a reverend and serial killer who stalks a pair of children.

[B13] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a memorable sequence from this film, the protagonist and his friend painstakingly carry a car motor down a staircase and onto the back of his truck, but it slides off and breaks as the car moves forward. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Killer of Sheep):
    Name this 1978 Charles Burnett film about an African-American family living in Watts. It is interspersed with grim footage of the protagonist, Stan, working in a slaughterhouse.
  Part 2 (ans: Gordon Parks):
    Killer of Sheep is often interpreted as a critique of blaxploitation films, like this man's film Shaft. He was the first black staff photographer for Life magazine.
  Part 3 (ans: Spike Lee [or Shelton Jackson Lee]):
    Charles Burnett and Gordon Parks influenced this later African-American filmmaker. He directed 25th Hour and Do the Right Thing.
