=== STOCK CLUES: Piero della Francesca ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 31 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: enthroned [accept answers like sitting on a throne; accept Madonna Enthroned; accept sacra conversazione or sacred conversation until read; prompt on sitting by asking, "On what?;" prompt on sitting on a chair by asking, "What type of chair?;" prompt on answers like holding the infant Jesus by asking, "What other position is the figure holding Jesus in?"] (The Piero della Francesca work described in the first and second sentences is the Brera Madonna, and Dali's interpretation is the Madonna of Port Lligat. The Cimabue work is the Santa Trinita Maesta.)
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - An egg hanging above a figure who is in this position inspired Salvador Dali to interpret that figure with a rectangular hole for a chest. [PWR]
  - An armor-clad Federico da Montefeltro kneels before a figure in this position in that sacra conversazione by Piero della Francesca. [PWR]
  - Simone Martini painted a red and blue canopy above a central figure in this position. [PWR]
  - This positioning of a figure is emphasized with liberal use of gold striations on a blue robe to create depth in a (*) Cimabue  painting. [PWR]
  - Giotto neglected that technique for chiaroscuro in the Ognissanti Madonna.
  - While holding the infant Jesus, a madonna in this position forms the Maesta scene.
  - For 10 points, name this position, developed by early Italian Renaissance artists from the Theotokos depiction of the Virgin Mary. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 Scattergories (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Piero della Francesca [or Piero di Benedetto; prompt on della Francesca or di Benedetto]
  - Marilyn Aronberg Lavin argued that a painting by this artist symbolizes the position of the sun on the winter solstice by positioning a dove and Christ's hands and feet using Euclid's formula for superimposing a pentagon on a triangle. [PWR]
  - Until the 19th century, this artist was better known as a mathematician because of works like the Abacus Treatise and On the Perspective of Painting, the first Renaissance treatise solely dedicated to perspective. [PWR]
  - Martin Kemp noted the "geometric control" of a painting by this artist, contrasting the octagonal pattern of the tiles inside the (*) loggia with the simpler grid pattern of the tiles outside the loggia.
  - The vanishing point of that painting by this artist is unusually low, near the hem of the robe of the man performing the title action, instead of on Christ's head.
  - The Institute for Advanced Studies hosts a 3-D online walkthrough of this artist's fresco cycle in Arezzo, The History of the True Cross.
  - For 10 points, name this 15th-century painter of the Flagellation of Christ. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Piero della Francesca [or della Francesca]
  - Michael Baxandall argued that barrel-gauging and other forms of commercial mathematics influenced this painter's use of geometric forms.
  - A thesis that one of this man's paintings depicts Bessarion trying to convince Federico of Urbino to launch a crusade was supported by Carlo Ginzburg.
  - A fresco by this man, which Aldous Huxley described as "the best picture in the world," depicts four sleeping guards in front of Jesus, who raises a flag and lifts his foot onto a sarcophagus.
  - Besides that version of The Resurrection, he painted a scene with three men in a courtyard on the right, one in a blue-and-gold robe, as Christ is tied to a pillar topped by a gold statue and whipped.
  - For 10 points, name this early Renaissance painter of The Flagellation of Christ. [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Piero [or Piero della Francesca; or Piero di Cosimo]
  - An artist with this given name painted a set of Lucretius-inspired panels depicting animals fleeing from cavemen and forest fires.
  - An artist with this first name painted a bent-over man in briefs pulling his undershirt over his head in the background of a painting of John pouring water directly onto a chalk-white Jesus.
  - An artist of this name who allegedly subsisted on a diet of boiled eggs painted two women playing bizarre instruments and a man standing on the back of a tusked sea monster in his Perseus Freeing Andromeda.
  - Four men, including a lance-bearing figure without legs, sleep in a painting by an artist of this given name that Aldous Huxley called "the greatest picture in the world." That artist with this first name worked for the Montefeltro family in Urbino, a fact sometimes used to identify the three figures conversing in the right foreground of one painting.
  - That artist with this given name painted Christ holding a flag and kneeling on his tomb in The Resurrection, and Christ tied to a pillar in The Flagellation.
  - For 10 points, give this name of Renaissance artists surnamed di Cosimo and della Francesca. [GIVE]

[T5] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Piero della Francesca [accept either name or both]
  - This artist painted a sky-blue-clad Gabriel kneeling before the Virgin Mary in front of an arcade of Corinthian columns receding into a marble panel in the background; that work by him is the pinnacle of an altarpiece with St. [PWR]
  - Anthony and Elizabeth of Hungary. [PWR]
  - One work by this artist shows a rooster on a column and a man in a blue cloak kneeling on the ground next to an X-framed seat under an arched canopy covered in a cloth resembling a coffered vault. [PWR]
  - That painting by this artist of the (*) Perugia Polyptych is dominated by a white banner with a moor on it and an orange banner with a black eagle.
  - A large leafless tree on the left and a leafy poplar on the right flank a pink-clad Christ holding a banner with his foot planted on a sarcophagus lid in his Resurrection.
  - For 10 points, name this artist who included the "Battle of Heraclius and Chosroes" and "Constantine's Dream" in his Legend of the True Cross cycle. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A work with this title that is typically attributed to Fra Carnevale contains four columns around a central fountain and is displayed in Baltimore's Walters Art Museum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Ideal City [or La citta ideale; accept Architectural Veduta]):
    Give this title of three remarkably similar Renaissance paintings depicting geometric plazas, often differentiated by their current location. These paintings are speculated to have originated with one by Luciano Laurana.
  Part 2 (ans: arch [or arc; accept Arc de Triomphe]):
    The background of the Ideal City of Baltimore contains a replica of a baptistery, amphitheater and one of these features. A massive one of these structures sits at the center of the Champs-Elysees in Paris.
  Part 3 (ans: Piero della Francesca [or Piero di Benedetto] (The second painting is the diptych of the Duke and Duchess of Urbino.)):
    The Ideal City of Urbino was once attributed to this artist, who, in a different painting, showed the pallid Batista Sforza facing Federico da Montefeltro against a backdrop of a vast, mountainous landscape.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Giorgio Vasari's artist biographies in The Lives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giotto di Bondone [or Giottus]):
    Vasari said that "there was no uglier man in the city of Florence" than this artist. This painter of the Scrovegni Chapel walls once painted a fly so realistic that his teacher Cimabue tried to brush it off.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca [accept either underlined portion; prompt on di Benedetto] (The paintings are Flagellation of Christ and The Resurrection, respectively.)):
    Vasari's claim that this painter was blind by age 60 is often disputed. This painter from Sansepolcro depicted a scene from the passion narrative in which three men stand unaware of the main action, paralleling another painting by him in which four men sleep at the base of a tomb.
  Part 3 (ans: Leonardo da Vinci [or Leonardo da Vinci]):
    The first biography in the second volume praises this painter's famed depiction of the Last Supper. Vasari also celebrates the ambiguous smile in this painter's portrait of Mona Lisa.

[B3] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's Resurrection was saved during World War II because the commander tasked with bombarding its town had read an essay by Aldous Huxley calling the work "the greatest picture in the world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Piero della Francesca [or Piero della Francesca]):
    Name this artist from Sansepolcro who also painted the Flagellation of Christ.
  Part 2 (ans: the Duke AND Duchess of Urbino [accept Federico III da Montefeltro or duca di Urbino in place of "Duke of Urbino"; accept Battista Sforza or Battista Sforza or duchessa di Urbino in place of "Duchess of Urbino" prompt on the rulers of Urbino or the Montefeltros]):
    Upon seeing Piero's double portrait of these people, art historian Kenneth Clark fell to his knees. Give either the names or titles of these [emphasize] two people, a patron of Piero who lost his right eye in a jousting tournament and his wife.
  Part 3 (ans: perspective [accept foreshortening; accept linear perspective or prospettiva lineare]):
    The Duke of Urbino encouraged Piero della Francesca to continue his explorations of this artistic concept that creates an illusion of depth within a flat artwork.

[B4] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Carlo Ginzburg argued that Pontius Pilate's presence in a painting of this scene represents Byzantine emperor John VIII Palaiologos, claiming it is a symbolic invitation to join the ongoing crusade. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flagellation of Christ [accept answers of the "Scourging at the Pillar"]):
    Give this artistic scene from the life of Christ popular during the Renaissance. In both of Caravaggio's versions, Christ is tied to a stone column or pillar while undergoing corporal punishment.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca [accept either underlined portion; or Piero di Benedetto]):
    Ginzburg's interpretation concerned this artist's version of the Flagellation, in which the pillar is topped by a golden swordsman. In that work by this artist, three men in the right-foreground stand oblivious to the scene.
  Part 3 (ans: Sebastiano del Piombo [accept either underlined portion; or Sebastiano Luciani; or Sebastiano Veneziano]):
    Caravaggio's paintings of the flagellation were inspired by this earlier Venetian artist's version for the San Pietro in Montorio. His painting The Violinist may be a self-portrait.

[B5] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Kenneth Clark called a work by this artist "the greatest small painting in the world," and the three figures at the front of that work are usually identified as the Duke of Urbino and his advisors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Piero della Francesca [accept either underlined part]):
    Name this Renaissance painter of The Flagellation of Christ, as well as of a Resurrection in the town of Sansepolcro that was famously spared by British troops during World War Two.
  Part 2 (ans: The True Cross [prompt on partial answers or answers like a crucifix; accept any answer that gets across the idea of the exact cross/wooden thing used to execute Jesus]):
    One of Piero's best known works is a fresco cycle in the town of Arezzo depicting The History of [this object]. It focuses on Constantine's attempts to find this object, onto which a certain religious figure was nailed.
  Part 3 (ans: The da Montefeltro family):
    In Urbino, Piero worked primarily for this family. He produced a double-portrait of one member of this family and his wife, Battista Sforza, in which that member lacks the bridge of his nose, having lost it in a tournament.

[B6] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sofonisba Anguissola painted a self-portrait in which she holds a gigantic one of these things featuring the initials of her sisters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: medals [or medallions]):
    Name this art form pioneered by the painter Pisanello, who created a work in this form depicting Byzantine Emperor John VIII.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca):
    Pisanello's depiction of John VIII may have inspired the appearance of the seated man on the left side of The Flagellation, a painting by this artist who also depicted Christ carrying a white flag in his The Resurrection.
  Part 3 (ans: the Sistine Chapel):
    Nude males known as the ignudi use sashes to hold giant medallions in Michelangelo's fresco on the ceiling of this building, which includes his painting The Creation of Adam.

[B7] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about the quest for "divine proportion" in Renaissance art, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vitruvius [or the Vitruvian Man]):
    This Roman theorized that a man lying supine with outstretched limbs could form a square and circle centered on his navel. That theory was illustrated by da Vinci's drawing of a man named for this thinker.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca [accept either name]):
    Double-entry bookkeeping pioneer Luca Pacioli also penned a treatise on geometrical proportions in the human form, but Vasari alleges that he stole those ideas from this artist of the History of the True Cross fresco series.
  Part 3 (ans: Albrecht Durer):
    This later artist of The Triumphal Arch filled his Four Books on Human Proportion with ridiculously mechanical and awkward drawings of human figures.

[B8] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these painters of the Quattrocento, or 15th century, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Masaccio [or Tommaso di Ser Giovanni di Simone]):
    A 1980s restoration removed the fig leaves censoring The Expulsion from the Garden of Eden, a fresco by this artist who showed St. Peter fetching money from a fish in The Tribute Money.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca [or Piero della Francesca]):
    This artist painted a portrait of the "Wolf of Rimini," a condottierro named Sigismondo Pandolfo Malatesta, but he is far better known for depicting Constantine's dream in a fresco from his series The History of the True Cross.
  Part 3 (ans: Benozzo Gozzoli):
    This artist incorporated resplendently-decorated portraits of the Medici in his painting The Journey of the Magi, the centerpiece of his decorations for the Palazzo Medici in Florence.

[B9] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It opens with a depiction of the Death of Adam and culminates in a large fresco showing Heraclius fighting Khosrau. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Legend of the True Cross [or The History of the True Cross]):
    Identify this cycle, found in the Basilica of San Francesco in Arezzo, which shows the making, use, loss, and recovery of the title religious relic.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dream of Constantine [or The Vision of Constantine]):
    This fresco from The Legend of the True Cross depicts four men, three of whom are soldiers guarding the title figure in his red-coned, yellow tent. This painting is impressive for its depiction of a backlit angel descending from the upper left.
  Part 3 (ans: Piero della Francesca [prompt on "della Francesca"]):
    The Legend of the True Cross is the masterpiece of this 15th century Italian painter, who also created The Flagellation.

[B10] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After reading Aldous Huxley's remark that this was the "greatest picture in the world," British artillery officer Tony Clarke defied orders to save it during World War II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Resurrection):
    Name this 1463 fresco in Sansepulcro that incorporates an image of the relic stone of Christ's tomb, and shows a pink-robed Jesus carrying a white flag with a red cross while stepping out of a Roman-style vessel as four other men close their eyes.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca [prompt on "(della) Francesca"]):
    This author of a treatise on perspective painted the Sansepolcro Resurrection as well as the 1460 Flagellation of Christ and the Brera Madonna.
  Part 3 (ans: True Cross [accept The History (or Legend) of the True Cross; prompt on "cross"]):
    The Church of San Francesco in Arezza contains Piero's fresco cycle on the "history" or "legend" of this relic, which was supposedly made from wood from the Garden of Eden.

[B11] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted the muses above the main staircase of the Boston Public Library, but is better known for his decorative mural cycles at the Sorbonne and Hˆotel de Ville in Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pierre Puvis de Chavannes):
    Name this French painter who co-founded the Soci´et´e Nationale des Beaux-Arts and is known for his restrained mural paintings that he rendered in subdued colors to imitate frescos. 10
  Part 2 (ans: Georges Seurat):
    This French painter borrowed the composition of Puvis de Chavannes's Doux Pays for his own pointillist masterpiece, the Bathers at Asni`eres.
  Part 3 (ans: Piero della Francesca 11):
    Puvis de Chavannes was heavily infuenced by this Early Renaissance artist's fresco cycle The Legend of the True Cross in Arezzo. His best-known painting mysteriously shows three men in contemporary clothes chatting in the right foreground while ignoring the title biblical scene behind them.

[B12] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Renaissance portraitists.
  Part 1 (ans: Rafael Sanzio [Accept either.]):
    This artist of the high Renaissance painted portraits of Baldassare Castiglione, as well as one of Donna Velata. He also painted The School of Athens.
  Part 2 (ans: Piero della Francesca):
    This other artist from Urbino painted a double portrait of Battista Sforza and Federigo da Montefeltro. The Battle of Nineveh is shown in the final painting of his Legend of the True Cross cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: Domenico Ghirlandaio):
    This artist's other works include The Funeral of St. Francis as well as a version of The Last Supper with two archways. His painting Old Man with a Child tenderly depicts a man with a bulging nose.
