"Sunstone"	Latin American Literature	Octavio Paz's long circular poem structured on the Aztec calendar, meditating on time and love.
1Q84	East Asian Literature	Haruki Murakami's novel of parallel Tokyo realities with two moons, following Aomame and Tengo.
Abdulrazak Gurnah	African Literature	Tanzanian-British Nobel laureate known for novels of migration and colonialism, including Paradise.
Alan Paton	African Literature	South African author of Cry, the Beloved Country, about a Zulu priest and apartheid-era injustice.
Antigone	Classical Antiquity	Sophocles's tragedy of a woman who defies King Creon to bury her brother Polynices.
Blood Knot	African Literature	Athol Fugard's play about two mixed-race South African half-brothers confronting apartheid's racial lines.
Booker Prize	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Major British literary award frequently won by postcolonial and Commonwealth novelists.
death	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring thematic motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Dom Casmurro	Latin American Literature	Machado de Assis's Brazilian novel narrated by a jealous husband, Bentinho, suspicious of his wife Capitu.
Israel	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Home to modern Hebrew-language writers like Amos Oz and Yehuda Amichai.
Jamaica Kincaid	Caribbean Literature	Antiguan-American writer of Annie John and Lucy; explores mother-daughter conflict and colonialism.
Japanese	East Asian Literature	Language of Murakami, Kawabata, and classical court literature like The Tale of Genji.
Jorge Amado	Latin American Literature	Brazilian novelist of Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon and Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands.
Kafka on the Shore	East Asian Literature	Haruki Murakami's novel intertwining a runaway teen and an old man who talks to cats.
Macondo	Latin American Literature	Fictional Colombian town in Garcia Marquez's One Hundred Years of Solitude, founded by Jose Arcadio Buendia.
Michael Ondaatje	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Sri Lankan-Canadian novelist of The English Patient; also wrote the memoir Running in the Family.
Patrick White	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Australian Nobel laureate novelist of Voss, about an explorer's doomed expedition.
R. K. Narayan	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian novelist known for the fictional South Indian town of Malgudi.
Sun Wukong	East Asian Literature	The trickster Monkey King of Journey to the West, escorting a monk to retrieve Buddhist scriptures.
The Kingdom of this World	Latin American Literature	Alejo Carpentier's novel of the Haitian Revolution, coining the concept of "lo real maravilloso."
The Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Edward FitzGerald's famous English translation of Omar Khayyam's Persian quatrains.
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair	Latin American Literature	Pablo Neruda's early, highly popular collection of romantic and erotic Chilean poetry.
Uruguay	Latin American Literature	Home to Horacio Quiroga's macabre short fiction.
"The Garden of Forking Paths"	Latin American Literature	Borges story of a labyrinthine novel-within-a-story about branching, parallel time.
"Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius"	Latin American Literature	Borges story about a fictional encyclopedia entry that begins to overwrite reality.
A Personal Matter	East Asian Literature	Kenzaburo Oe's autobiographical novel about a father grappling with his brain-damaged newborn son.
A Suitable Boy	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Vikram Seth's sprawling novel of a mother seeking a husband for her daughter in post-independence India.
cats	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline, as in Natsume Soseki's I Am a Cat and Murakami's fiction.
dogs	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works, as in Mahfouz's The Thief and the Dogs.
El Senor Presidente	Latin American Literature	Miguel Angel Asturias's novel about a Latin American dictator, a founding work of the "dictator novel."
Eva Luna	Latin American Literature	Isabel Allende's magical realist novel about a Chilean storyteller narrating her own picaresque life.
Istanbul	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Turkish city central to Orhan Pamuk's novels, including My Name is Red and The Museum of Innocence.
Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Full name of the 13th-century Persian Sufi poet who wrote the Masnavi.
Korean	East Asian Literature	Language of modern Korean writers including Han Kang.
Manuel Puig	Latin American Literature	Argentine novelist of Kiss of the Spider Woman, set among cellmates in a Latin American prison.
Mao Zedong	East Asian Literature	Chinese Communist leader whose Cultural Revolution shaped much 20th-century Chinese literature.
Maori	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Indigenous New Zealand people and language central to Keri Hulme's The Bone People.
Miguel Angel Asturias	Latin American Literature	Guatemalan Nobel laureate of El Senor Presidente and Men of Maize.
Mohsin Hamid	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Pakistani novelist of The Reluctant Fundamentalist and Exit West.
Nervous Conditions	African Literature	Tsitsi Dangarembga's Zimbabwean novel about a girl's education and struggle against colonial and patriarchal norms.
Norwegian Wood	East Asian Literature	Haruki Murakami's coming-of-age novel of Toru Watanabe's romantic entanglements in 1960s Tokyo.
Pedro Paramo	Latin American Literature	Juan Rulfo's Mexican novel in which a man discovers his father's town is populated by ghosts.
Peru	Latin American Literature	Home to Mario Vargas Llosa and Cesar Vallejo.
Saleem Sinai	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Telepathic protagonist of Rushdie's Midnight's Children, born at the exact moment of India's independence.
Sappho	Classical Antiquity	Ancient Greek lyric poet from Lesbos known for passionate, fragmentary love poetry.
Scheherazade	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Storyteller of One Thousand and One Nights who delays her execution by telling tales nightly.
Spanish	Latin American Literature	Language of the Latin American Boom and much of Latin America's literary tradition.
The Narrow Road to the Deep North	East Asian Literature	Matsuo Basho's haibun travel account of a journey through northern Japan.
The Tempest	Caribbean Literature	Aime Cesaire's postcolonial rewriting of Shakespeare's play, recasting Caliban as an anti-colonial rebel.
zuihitsu	East Asian Literature	Japanese literary genre of loosely connected essays and observations, exemplified by Sei Shonagon's Pillow Book.
"Rashomon"	East Asian Literature	Ryunosuke Akutagawa's short story of conflicting accounts at a ruined gate, basis for Kurosawa's film.
"The Aleph"	Latin American Literature	Borges story about a point in space containing all other points, glimpsed in a Buenos Aires basement.
Adolfo Bioy Casares	Latin American Literature	Argentine writer and close friend/collaborator of Borges; wrote The Invention of Morel.
Alain Mabanckou	African Literature	Congolese novelist writing in French, known for satirical postcolonial fiction.
Americanah	African Literature	Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's novel of a Nigerian woman's experience of race in America and her return home.
Bertolt Brecht	Continental European Literature	German playwright who developed Epic Theatre and the alienation effect; wrote Mother Courage.
birds	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Buchi Emecheta	African Literature	Nigerian novelist known for depicting women's struggles, including in The Joys of Motherhood.
Burger's Daughter	African Literature	Nadine Gordimer's novel about the daughter of a white anti-apartheid activist in South Africa.
Carlos Fuentes Macias	Latin American Literature	Full name of the Mexican Boom novelist who wrote The Death of Artemio Cruz.
Christopher Okigbo	African Literature	Nigerian modernist poet killed in the Nigerian Civil War; wrote Heavensgate.
Death and the Maiden	Latin American Literature	Ariel Dorfman's play about a Chilean woman who believes her guest tortured her under the dictatorship.
Derek Alton Walcott	Caribbean Literature	Full name of the Saint Lucian Nobel poet who wrote Omeros.
Euripides	Classical Antiquity	Ancient Greek tragedian of Medea and The Bacchae, known for psychologically complex characters.
farms	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
gardens	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring setting motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
gauchos	Latin American Literature	Argentine cowboy figures central to the epic poem Martin Fierro.
ghosts	Continental European Literature	Henrik Ibsen's play Ghosts, about hereditary syphilis and hypocrisy in a Norwegian family.
graphic novel	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Genre exemplified in this unit by Marjane Satrapi's Persepolis.
Gustave Flaubert	Continental European Literature	French realist novelist of Madame Bovary, about a doctor's wife's affairs and disillusionment.
Half of a Yellow Sun	African Literature	Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie's novel set during the Nigerian Civil War and the Biafran secession.
Han Kang	East Asian Literature	South Korean novelist of The Vegetarian; won the International Booker Prize and later the Nobel.
Indonesia	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Southeast Asian nation home to novelist Pramoedya Ananta Toer.
Jerusalem	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	City central to Hebrew and Israeli literature, including works by Amos Oz.
Juan Rulfo	Latin American Literature	Mexican novelist of Pedro Paramo, a foundational text for magical realism.
Junichiro Tanizaki	East Asian Literature	Japanese novelist of The Makioka Sisters and Some Prefer Nettles.
Kamau Brathwaite	Caribbean Literature	Barbadian poet known for developing "nation language" poetics rooted in Caribbean speech.
Latin American Boom	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	1960s-70s literary movement of Latin American novelists including Garcia Marquez, Vargas Llosa, Cortazar, and Fuentes.
Like Water for Chocolate	Latin American Literature	Laura Esquivel's Mexican novel where a woman's cooking magically transmits her emotions.
Malgudi	South & Southeast Asian Literature	R.K. Narayan's fictional South Indian town, setting for many of his novels.
