A Fine Balance	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Rohinton Mistry's novel of four lives intertwined in an Indian city during the 1975 Emergency.
Akinwande Oluwole "Wole" Soyinka	African Literature	Full name of the Nigerian Nobel playwright of Death and the King's Horseman.
Amitav Ghosh	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian novelist of the Ibis trilogy beginning with Sea of Poppies, set around the Opium Wars.
Ancient Egyptian	Classical Antiquity	Language and tradition of hieroglyphic texts like the Book of the Dead and love poetry.
Artemio Cruz	Latin American Literature	Dying Mexican tycoon who reviews his corrupted revolutionary past in Fuentes's novel.
bananas	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring motif/common-link answerline, as in the banana company massacre in One Hundred Years of Solitude.
Benno von Archimboldi	Latin American Literature	Elusive German novelist sought by critics in Roberto Bolano's 2666.
Bharati Mukherjee	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian-American novelist of Jasmine, about an immigrant woman's serial reinventions.
Bras Cubas	Latin American Literature	Dead narrator of Machado de Assis's Posthumous Memoirs, dedicating the book to the worm that first gnawed him.
Buenos Aires	Latin American Literature	Argentine capital, literary home of Borges, Cortazar, and the Sur circle.
Children of Gebelawi	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Naguib Mahfouz's banned allegorical novel retelling Abrahamic religious history in a Cairo alley.
classical Chinese	East Asian Literature	Literary language of Tang poetry and the Confucian classics.
couplets	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Two-line verse unit underlying the ghazal and Rumi's Masnavi, the "Spiritual Couplets."
Derek	Caribbean Literature	Refers to Derek Walcott, Saint Lucian Nobel poet of Omeros.
doctor	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring occupational motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Dominican Republic	Caribbean Literature	Caribbean nation under Trujillo, setting of Oscar Wao and The Feast of the Goat.
Don Quixote	Continental European Literature	Cervantes's novel of a deluded knight-errant and squire Sancho Panza; touchstone for Borges's Pierre Menard.
dreams	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring motif/common-link answerline, from Sor Juana's First Dream to Borges's fictions.
Edgar Allan Poe	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	American Gothic master whose macabre tales modeled Quiroga's stories and Edogawa Ranpo's pen name.
Eleanor Catton	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	New Zealand novelist whose gold-rush novel The Luminaries won the Booker Prize.
Elemental Odes	Latin American Literature	Pablo Neruda's collection praising ordinary things like socks, salt, and an onion.
Epic of Sundiata	African Literature	Griot-transmitted Mande epic of the lion prince who founded the Mali Empire.
Ezra Pound	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	American modernist whose Cathay freely adapted Li Bai, including "The River-Merchant's Wife."
four	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Common-link number, unlucky in East Asia for sounding like "death"; the Four Great Classical Novels.
George Lamming	Caribbean Literature	Barbadian novelist of In the Castle of My Skin, on colonial childhood.
ghazal	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Persian-Urdu lyric form of rhyming couplets on love and loss, mastered by Hafez and Ghalib.
Ha Jin	East Asian Literature	Chinese-American novelist of Waiting, about a doctor's eighteen-year wait to divorce and remarry.
Hafez	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	14th-century Persian lyric poet of Shiraz whose Divan perfected the ghazal.
Haiti	Caribbean Literature	Nation of the revolution depicted in Carpentier's Kingdom of This World; home of Danticat.
Hikaru Genji	East Asian Literature	The "Shining Prince," amorous courtier hero of Murasaki Shikibu's Tale of Genji.
Homer	Classical Antiquity	Ancient Greek epic poet of the Iliad and Odyssey; model for Walcott's Omeros.
In a Free State	Caribbean Literature	V.S. Naipaul's Booker-winning work of linked narratives about displacement, centered in an African state.
Jane Eyre	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Charlotte Bronte novel whose madwoman Bertha Mason is reimagined in Rhys's Wide Sargasso Sea.
kabuki	East Asian Literature	Stylized Japanese popular theater form, adapting Chikamatsu's plays alongside bunraku.
Kazuo Ishiguro	East Asian Literature	Japanese-born British Nobel laureate of The Remains of the Day and Never Let Me Go.
kings	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring figure motif/common-link answerline, from the Shahnameh's Book of Kings onward.
Kiran Desai	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian novelist of the Booker-winning The Inheritance of Loss; daughter of Anita Desai.
Kiss of the Spider Woman	Latin American Literature	Manuel Puig's novel of cellmates Molina and Valentin, told largely through recounted films.
Lady Murasaki	East Asian Literature	Heian court lady author of The Tale of Genji; also names a character in the novel.
Leopold Sedar Senghor	African Literature	Senegalese Negritude poet and first president of Senegal.
Leopold Senghor	African Literature	Senegalese poet-president who co-founded Negritude with Aime Cesaire.
letters	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring epistolary motif/common-link answerline, as in Mariama Ba's So Long a Letter.
Mariama Ba	African Literature	Senegalese novelist of So Long a Letter, a widow's letter on polygamy and women's lives.
Marlon James	Caribbean Literature	Jamaican novelist whose A Brief History of Seven Killings won the Booker Prize.
Martin Fierro	Latin American Literature	Jose Hernandez's Argentine epic poem of a persecuted gaucho outlaw.
masnavi	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Persian rhyming-couplet form; capitalized, Rumi's vast Sufi poem of that name.
Michael K	African Literature	Gardener protagonist of Coetzee's Life & Times of Michael K, wandering war-torn South Africa.
Mohun Biswas	Caribbean Literature	Naipaul's Trinidadian protagonist whose lifelong quest is a house of his own.
mountains	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring natural motif/common-link answerline, as in Soul Mountain and Kawabata's fiction.
Nectar in a Sieve	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Kamala Markandaya's novel of the peasant woman Rukmani enduring rural Indian hardship.
Ngugi	African Literature	Refers to Ngugi wa Thiong'o, Kenyan author of Petals of Blood and Wizard of the Crow.
Nicaragua	Latin American Literature	Home of Modernismo founder Ruben Dario and priest-poet Ernesto Cardenal.
Nicolas Guillen	Latin American Literature	Cuban national poet of Afro-Cuban rhythm-infused verse; leader of Negrismo.
Octavio Paz Lozano	Latin American Literature	Full name of the Mexican Nobel poet of The Labyrinth of Solitude.
Othello	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Shakespeare's tragedy of the Moor of Venice, a recurring touchstone for postcolonial rewriting.
Ousmane Sembene	African Literature	Senegalese novelist-filmmaker of God's Bits of Wood, on the Dakar-Niger railway strike.
Patrick Victor Martindale White	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Full name of the Australian Nobel laureate who wrote Voss.
Petals of Blood	African Literature	Ngugi wa Thiong'o's novel of four suspects and a fire, indicting neocolonial Kenya.
Pramoedya Ananta Toer	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indonesian novelist of the Buru Quartet, beginning with This Earth of Mankind, written in prison.
Red Oleanders	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Rabindranath Tagore's play of Nandini defying a gold-mining king's exploitative city.
Republic of Ghana	African Literature	Full name of the West African nation home to Ama Ata Aidoo.
Republic of Senegal	African Literature	Full name of the nation of Senghor, Mariama Ba, and Ousmane Sembene.
rivers	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring natural motif/common-link answerline, as in A Bend in the River.
Roberto Bolano Avalos	Latin American Literature	Full name of the Chilean author of 2666 and The Savage Detectives.
Rudyard Kipling	South & Southeast Asian Literature	English writer of Kim and The Jungle Book, set in British India; Nobel laureate.
Snow Country	East Asian Literature	Kawabata's novel of Tokyo dilettante Shimamura's affair with the geisha Komako in a hot-spring town.
Sor Juana	Latin American Literature	Refers to Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, 17th-century Mexican nun-poet of "First Dream."
Spiritual Couplets	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	English name for Rumi's Masnavi, the vast Persian Sufi didactic poem.
Sufism	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Islamic mystical tradition animating the poetry of Rumi, Hafez, and Attar.
swahili	African Literature	East African lingua franca with its own epic verse tradition; Ngugi contrasted it with colonial English.
The Bacchae	Classical Antiquity	Euripides's tragedy in which Dionysus drives Theban women to tear King Pentheus apart.
The Famished Road	African Literature	Ben Okri's Booker-winning novel narrated by Azaro, a spirit-child in a Nigerian ghetto.
The Feast of the Goat	Latin American Literature	Mario Vargas Llosa's novel of the Trujillo dictatorship and assassination in the Dominican Republic.
The Home and the World	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Tagore's novel of Bimala torn between her husband Nikhil and the radical nationalist Sandip.
The Iliad	Classical Antiquity	Homer's epic of Achilles's wrath during the Trojan War.
The Labyrinth of Solitude	Latin American Literature	Octavio Paz's essay collection analyzing Mexican identity, masks, and solitude.
the Library of Babel	Latin American Literature	Borges's infinite hexagonal library containing every possible book.
The Plum in the Golden Vase	East Asian Literature	Ming-dynasty erotic novel Jin Ping Mei, chronicling the merchant Ximen Qing's household.
The Post Office	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Tagore's play of the dying boy Amal awaiting a letter from the king.
The Rubaiyat	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Omar Khayyam's Persian quatrains on wine and mortality, famed via FitzGerald's translation.
