Jorge Luis Borges	Latin American Literature	Argentine master of labyrinthine, philosophical short fiction; wrote "The Garden of Forking Paths" and Ficciones.
Pablo Neruda	Latin American Literature	Chilean Nobel laureate poet of Twenty Love Poems and Canto General; wrote surrealist verse and political odes.
Derek Walcott	Caribbean Literature	Saint Lucian Nobel poet of the epic Omeros; also wrote Dream on Monkey Mountain and "A Far Cry from Africa."
Rabindranath Tagore	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Bengali polymath, first non-European Nobel laureate in Literature; wrote Gitanjali and The Home and the World.
Wole Soyinka	African Literature	Nigerian playwright and first African Nobel laureate in Literature; wrote Death and the King's Horseman and The Lion and the Jewel.
Naguib Mahfouz	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Egyptian Nobel laureate known for the Cairo Trilogy; also wrote Children of Gebelawi and The Thief and the Dogs.
Brazil	Latin American Literature	Portuguese-speaking South American nation; home to Machado de Assis, Clarice Lispector, and Jorge Amado.
Argentina	Latin American Literature	Home to Borges, Cortazar, and the gaucho epic Martin Fierro; Buenos Aires-centered literary tradition.
Chinua Achebe	African Literature	Nigerian novelist of Things Fall Apart, No Longer at Ease, and Arrow of God; chronicled Igbo society under colonialism.
Julio Cortazar	Latin American Literature	Argentine Boom author of Hopscotch and the story collections behind "Blow-Up"; masterful short fiction.
Mexico	Latin American Literature	Home to Octavio Paz, Juan Rulfo's Pedro Paramo, and Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz.
Ngugi wa Thiong'o	African Literature	Kenyan novelist of Petals of Blood and Wizard of the Crow; later wrote in Gikuyu, e.g. I Will Marry When I Want.
Octavio Paz	Latin American Literature	Mexican Nobel poet of The Labyrinth of Solitude and "Sunstone"; associated with Surrealism and Modernismo.
Isabel Allende	Latin American Literature	Chilean magical realist novelist of The House of the Spirits and Eva Luna; niece of Salvador Allende.
Nadine Gordimer	African Literature	South African Nobel laureate chronicling apartheid; wrote Burger's Daughter and July's People.
Yukio Mishima	East Asian Literature	Japanese novelist of The Temple of the Golden Pavilion and the Sea of Fertility tetralogy; died by ritual suicide.
Gabriel Garcia Marquez	Latin American Literature	Colombian Nobel laureate of One Hundred Years of Solitude and Love in the Time of Cholera; father of magical realism.
Nigeria	African Literature	Home to Achebe, Soyinka, and Adichie; Igbo and Yoruba literary traditions and postcolonial fiction.
Orhan Pamuk	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Turkish Nobel laureate of My Name is Red, Snow, and The Museum of Innocence; Istanbul-centered postmodernism.
Ryunosuke Akutagawa	East Asian Literature	Japanese short-story writer of "Rashomon" and "In a Grove," source for Kurosawa's film; died by suicide young.
Athol Fugard	African Literature	South African playwright of "Master Harold"...and the Boys and Blood Knot; worked with the Serpent Players.
Yasunari Kawabata	East Asian Literature	Japanese Nobel laureate of Snow Country, Thousand Cranes, and The Sound of the Mountain; New Sensationalism.
Haruki Murakami	East Asian Literature	Japanese postmodernist of Norwegian Wood, Kafka on the Shore, and 1Q84; magical realist elements.
Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie	African Literature	Nigerian novelist of Purple Hibiscus, Half of a Yellow Sun, and Americanah; feminist and postcolonial themes.
Arabic	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Language of Mahfouz, One Thousand and One Nights, and classical poetic forms.
Cuba	Latin American Literature	Home to Jose Marti's Modernismo and Nicolas Guillen's Afro-Cuban poetry.
The God of Small Things	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Arundhati Roy's Booker Prize novel of forbidden love and twins in Kerala, India.
Li Bai	East Asian Literature	Tang dynasty Chinese poet known for romantic, often drunken verse; frequently paired with rival Du Fu.
Mario Vargas Llosa	Latin American Literature	Peruvian Nobel laureate of the Latin American Boom; wrote Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter and The Time of the Hero.
Matsuo Basho	East Asian Literature	Edo-period Japanese haiku master; wrote the travel account The Narrow Road to the Deep North.
Gabriela Mistral	Latin American Literature	Chilean Nobel laureate poet, first Latin American to win; wrote Sonnets of Death; associated with Modernismo.
Persian	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Language of Rumi, Hafez, Omar Khayyam, and the Shahnameh epic.
Japan	East Asian Literature	Home to Murakami, Kawabata, Mishima, and classical Heian court literature.
Ruben Dario	Latin American Literature	Nicaraguan founder of the Modernismo movement; wrote the poetry collection Azul....
South Africa	African Literature	Home to Gordimer, Coetzee, and Fugard; apartheid-era literature is a defining theme.
Australia	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Home to Patrick White, Peter Carey, and bush-ballad poets like Banjo Paterson.
Lu Xun	East Asian Literature	Founder of modern Chinese vernacular fiction; wrote "The True Story of Ah Q" during the May Fourth Movement.
New Zealand	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Home to Katherine Mansfield and the Booker-winning The Bone People.
Salman Rushdie	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian-British magical realist of Midnight's Children and The Satanic Verses.
Egypt	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Home to Naguib Mahfouz and the Cairo-set Cairo Trilogy; Arabic literary center.
Canada	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Home to Margaret Atwood, Alice Munro, and Michael Ondaatje.
Carlos Fuentes	Latin American Literature	Mexican Boom novelist of The Death of Artemio Cruz and Terra Nostra; wrote the historical novel The Old Gringo.
V. S. Naipaul	Caribbean Literature	Trinidadian-British Nobel laureate of A House for Mr Biswas, A Bend in the River, and Miguel Street.
The House of the Spirits	Latin American Literature	Isabel Allende's magical realist multigenerational Chilean family saga, later a film.
China	East Asian Literature	Home to classical Tang poetry, the Four Great Classical Novels, and modern writers like Lu Xun and Mo Yan.
Gitanjali	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Rabindranath Tagore's "Song Offerings" poetry collection that won him the 1913 Nobel Prize.
Kalidasa	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Classical Sanskrit poet-dramatist; wrote The Recognition of Shakuntala and other court dramas.
Roberto Bolano	Latin American Literature	Chilean novelist of the posthumously published 2666 and The Savage Detectives; associated with Infrarealism.
Rumi	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	13th-century Persian Sufi mystic poet; wrote the Masnavi, the Spiritual Couplets.
Bengali	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Language of Tagore's Gitanjali and The Home and the World; major literature of eastern India and Bangladesh.
Death and the King's Horseman	African Literature	Wole Soyinka's tragedy of a Yoruba chief horseman prevented from ritual suicide by colonial officials.
French	Continental European Literature	Language of Flaubert, Voltaire, Sartre, and Camus, as well as Francophone Caribbean and African writers.
Katherine Mansfield	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	New Zealand modernist short-story writer; wrote "Bliss" and "The Garden Party."
Water Margin	East Asian Literature	One of China's Four Great Classical Novels; bandit-heroes of Liangshan Marsh rebel against corrupt officials.
Chile	Latin American Literature	Home to Neruda, Mistral, Bolano, and Isabel Allende.
Dream of the Red Chamber	East Asian Literature	Qing-dynasty Chinese novel and one of the Four Great Classical Novels; centers on Jia Baoyu and the Jia family's decline.
Snow	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Orhan Pamuk's novel set in the Turkish city of Kars, exploring political Islam and secularism.
Vikram Seth	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian novelist of A Suitable Boy and the verse novel The Golden Gate; New Formalist poet.
Kobo Abe	East Asian Literature	Japanese surrealist/absurdist novelist known for existential fables about isolation.
Sanskrit	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Classical Indian literary language of Kalidasa's dramas and the epics Ramayana and Mahabharata.
The Lion and the Jewel	African Literature	Wole Soyinka's comedy about a village belle courted by a modernizing schoolteacher and the traditional Bale.
Chikamatsu Monzaemon	East Asian Literature	Edo-period Japanese playwright of bunraku puppet and kabuki plays; wrote the Love Suicides dramas.
Du Fu	East Asian Literature	Tang dynasty Chinese poet known for socially engaged, historically grounded verse; often paired with Li Bai.
Jhumpa Lahiri	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian-American author of Interpreter of Maladies and "Sexy"; explores Bengali immigrant experience.
Journey to the West	East Asian Literature	Ming-dynasty Chinese novel of the monkey king Sun Wukong escorting a monk to retrieve Buddhist scriptures.
magical realism	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Genre blending realistic narrative with fantastical elements; defines the Latin American Boom and beyond.
Mahmoud Darwish	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Palestinian national poet known for resistance poetry like "Identity Card."
Midnight's Children	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Salman Rushdie's Booker of Bookers-winning novel of Saleem Sinai, born at India's independence.
Natsume Soseki	East Asian Literature	Meiji-era Japanese novelist of Kokoro and I Am a Cat; central figure of modern Japanese literature.
Things Fall Apart	African Literature	Chinua Achebe's novel of Okonkwo, an Igbo leader undone by colonialism and his own rigidity.
Jun'ichiro Tanizaki	East Asian Literature	Japanese novelist of The Makioka Sisters and Some Prefer Nettles; wrote the essay In Praise of Shadows.
Kenzaburo Oe	East Asian Literature	Japanese Nobel laureate of A Personal Matter and Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids; wrote about his disabled son.
Margaret Atwood	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Canadian novelist of The Handmaid's Tale and Oryx and Crake; dystopian and feminist themes.
Mo Yan	East Asian Literature	Chinese Nobel laureate known for Red Sorghum; blends folk tales with historical narrative.
Peter Carey	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Australian novelist of Oscar and Lucinda; two-time Booker Prize winner.
wine	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring motif/common-link object across world literature, from gauchos' drink to Rubaiyat imagery.
Aime Cesaire	Caribbean Literature	Martinican poet and co-founder of Negritude; wrote the anti-colonial Notebook of a Return to My Native Land.
Alice Munro	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Canadian Nobel laureate short-story writer; wrote "Dance of the Happy Shades"; Southern Ontario Gothic.
masks	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring motif/common-link object across African and world literature, tied to ritual and identity.
Portuguese	Latin American Literature	Language of Brazilian literature, including Machado de Assis and Clarice Lispector.
