Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz	Latin American Literature	17th-century Mexican nun-poet of colonial New Spain; wrote "First Dream" and defended women's education.
Cry, the Beloved Country	African Literature	Alan Paton's novel of a Zulu priest searching for his son amid apartheid-era South Africa.
English	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Language shared across many postcolonial literatures (Nigeria, India, Caribbean) despite colonial origins.
India	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Home to Tagore, Rushdie, Roy, and Seth; Hindi, Bengali, Tamil, and English-language traditions.
Omeros	Caribbean Literature	Derek Walcott's Homeric epic poem retelling the Iliad and Odyssey through Saint Lucian fishermen.
One Hundred Years of Solitude	Latin American Literature	Gabriel Garcia Marquez's landmark magical realist saga of the Buendia family in Macondo.
Republic of Cuba	Latin American Literature	Full name of the Caribbean island nation home to Jose Marti and Nicolas Guillen.
Afrikaans	African Literature	Dutch-derived language of white South African literature, including some apartheid-era works.
Alejo Carpentier	Latin American Literature	Cuban novelist who coined "lo real maravilloso"; wrote The Kingdom of This World and Explosion in a Cathedral.
Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter	Latin American Literature	Mario Vargas Llosa's semi-autobiographical novel of a young writer and a radio-serial scriptwriter, Pedro Camacho.
Clarice Lispector	Latin American Literature	Brazilian novelist of existentialist stream-of-consciousness prose; wrote The Hour of the Star and The Passion According to G.H.
Commonwealth of Australia	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Full name of the nation home to Patrick White and Peter Carey.
Horacio Quiroga	Latin American Literature	Uruguayan short-story writer known for macabre tales like "The Feather Pillow," often compared to Poe.
Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis	Latin American Literature	Brazilian realist novelist of Dom Casmurro and The Posthumous Memoirs of Bras Cubas.
Jose Marti	Latin American Literature	Cuban independence hero and Modernismo poet; wrote the essay "Our America" and the poem behind "Guantanamera."
Love in the Time of Cholera	Latin American Literature	Garcia Marquez's novel of a decades-long unrequited love in a Colombian river town.
Negritude	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Francophone Black literary movement asserting African cultural pride, led by Cesaire and Senghor.
Romance of the Three Kingdoms	East Asian Literature	Ming-dynasty Chinese historical novel of warlords Cao Cao, Liu Bei, and the fall of the Han.
South Korea	East Asian Literature	Home to modern Korean writers including Han Kang.
The Pillow Book	East Asian Literature	Sei Shonagon's Heian-era Japanese collection of lists and observations from court life; a zuihitsu.
tigers	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring animal motif/common-link answerline across world literature, from Bengal to Life of Pi.
Arundhati Roy	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Indian novelist of The God of Small Things; Booker Prize winner.
Cairo	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Egyptian capital and setting of Naguib Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy and Palace Walk.
Chinese	East Asian Literature	Language of the Four Great Classical Novels and Tang dynasty poetry.
Federative Republic of Brazil	Latin American Literature	Full name of the nation home to Machado de Assis and Clarice Lispector.
haiku	East Asian Literature	Japanese short poetic form perfected by Matsuo Basho and Kobayashi Issa.
Jamaica	Caribbean Literature	Caribbean island home to writers exploring creolization and colonial legacy.
My Name is Red	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Orhan Pamuk's murder mystery set among Ottoman miniaturist painters in 16th-century Istanbul.
Shahnameh	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Ferdowsi's Persian national epic, the "Book of Kings," chronicling Iran's mythical and historical rulers.
The Satanic Verses	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Salman Rushdie's controversial novel that provoked a fatwa from Ayatollah Khomeini.
Africa	African Literature	Continent home to Nigerian, South African, Kenyan, and Egyptian literary traditions.
bunraku	East Asian Literature	Japanese puppet theater associated with playwright Chikamatsu Monzaemon.
Cesar Vallejo	Latin American Literature	Peruvian modernist poet known for avant-garde, anguished verse.
Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Latin American Literature	Garcia Marquez's novella reconstructing a small-town honor killing everyone knew was coming.
Ghana	African Literature	West African nation with a literary tradition including Ama Ata Aidoo.
Heart of Darkness	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Joseph Conrad's novella of Marlow's journey up the Congo; frequent target of Achebe's postcolonial critique.
Noh	East Asian Literature	Classical masked Japanese musical drama form, associated with playwright Zeami Motokiyo.
People's Republic of China	East Asian Literature	Full name of the nation home to Lu Xun, Mo Yan, and the Four Great Classical Novels.
Persepolis	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Marjane Satrapi's autobiographical graphic novel about growing up during the Iranian Revolution.
A Bend in the River	Caribbean Literature	V.S. Naipaul's novel of a shopkeeper in a newly independent, decaying Central African nation.
Ben Okri	African Literature	Nigerian magical realist novelist of The Famished Road, narrated by the spirit-child Azaro.
Disgrace	African Literature	J.M. Coetzee's Booker-winning novel of a disgraced professor and his daughter in post-apartheid South Africa.
Federal Republic of Nigeria	African Literature	Full name of the nation home to Achebe, Soyinka, and Adichie.
griots	African Literature	West African oral historian-poet-musicians who preserve epics like Sundiata.
Iran	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Home to Rumi, Ferdowsi, Hafez, and modern writers like Marjane Satrapi.
John Maxwell Coetzee	African Literature	Full name of the South African Nobel laureate who wrote Disgrace and Waiting for the Barbarians.
Jose Rizal	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Filipino nationalist novelist of Noli Me Tangere, whose execution helped spark the Philippine Revolution.
Junot Diaz	Caribbean Literature	Dominican-American novelist of The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao, narrated by Yunior.
Lebanon	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Home to Kahlil Gibran, author of The Prophet.
Republic of Chile	Latin American Literature	Full name of the nation home to Neruda, Mistral, and Bolano.
Senegal	African Literature	West African nation home to Negritude poet Leopold Senghor and filmmaker-novelist Ousmane Sembene.
Tamil	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Classical Dravidian language literary tradition of South India and Sri Lanka.
The English Patient	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Michael Ondaatje's Booker-winning novel of a burned patient and companions in an Italian villa during WWII.
The Kite Runner	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Khaled Hosseini's novel of a boy's guilt over betraying his friend Hassan in Afghanistan.
the moon	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring celestial motif/common-link answerline across world literature traditions.
The Vegetarian	East Asian Literature	Han Kang's Booker International-winning Korean novel of a woman who stops eating meat.
"The Garden Party"	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Katherine Mansfield short story contrasting a wealthy family's party with a neighbor's death.
2666	Latin American Literature	Roberto Bolano's sprawling posthumous novel centered on murders in a fictional Mexican border city.
cannibalism	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring thematic motif/common-link across Latin American and other world literature works.
Doris Lessing	African Literature	British-Zimbabwean Nobel laureate known for The Golden Notebook; wrote about colonial Africa and feminism.
Gao Xingjian	East Asian Literature	Chinese-French Nobel laureate of Soul Mountain and the absurdist play The Bus Stop.
ghazals	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Persian and Urdu lyric poetic form of rhyming couplets, perfected by Hafez and Ghalib.
Hebrew	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Revived modern literary language of Israeli writers like Amos Oz and Yehuda Amichai.
Hopscotch	Latin American Literature	Julio Cortazar's experimental novel readable in multiple chapter orders; Boom-era masterpiece.
J. M. Coetzee	African Literature	South African Nobel laureate of Disgrace, Waiting for the Barbarians, and Elizabeth Costello.
July's People	African Literature	Nadine Gordimer's novel imagining a white South African family fleeing a Black revolutionary uprising.
Kenya	African Literature	Home to Ngugi wa Thiong'o; Gikuyu and English-language literary traditions.
Modernismo	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Late-19th-century Latin American literary movement led by Ruben Dario and Jose Marti.
Omar Khayyam	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Persian polymath poet whose quatrains were rendered famous in English as The Rubaiyat.
puppets	East Asian Literature	Recurring motif tied to Japanese bunraku theater and Chikamatsu's plays.
red	Movements, Motifs & Common Links	Recurring color motif/common-link answerline across world literature works.
Republic of Kenya	African Literature	Full name of the nation home to Ngugi wa Thiong'o.
Season of Migration to the North	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Tayeb Salih's Sudanese novel of a man's disorienting return home after studying in England.
The Hour of the Star	Latin American Literature	Clarice Lispector's final novel about a poor, unremarkable typist named Macabea in Rio.
The Prophet	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Kahlil Gibran's poetic prose collection of philosophical essays on love, work, and life.
The Tale of Genji	East Asian Literature	Murasaki Shikibu's Heian-era Japanese novel about the courtier Hikaru Genji; often called the first novel.
The White Tiger	South & Southeast Asian Literature	Aravind Adiga's Booker-winning novel narrated by a servant-turned-entrepreneur in India.
Turkey	Middle Eastern & Persian Literature	Home to Orhan Pamuk; Istanbul-centered modern literary tradition.
white	Commonwealth Literature: Australia, Canada & New Zealand	Refers to Patrick White, Australian Nobel laureate novelist of Voss.
Zimbabwe	African Literature	Home to novelists like NoViolet Bulawayo and Doris Lessing's colonial-era fiction.
