=== STOCK CLUES: Lovelace ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Lovelace ("loveless")
  - William Hazlitt's edition of a poem by this author discusses a musical setting of it by Dr.
  - John Wilson and bemoans the text's "extraordinary corruption," while swapping the word "gods" for "birds" in the first stanza.
  - This poet created a speaker who "with shriller throat shall sing" like "committed linnets" of the "glories of my King." This poet borrowed William Habington's image of "the nunnery of thy chaste breast" in one poem, while another poem by this author claims that "fishes that tipple in the deep" and "birds that wanton in the air...know no such liberty" as its speaker.
  - This author, who wrote a poem that ends, "I could not love thee, Dear, so much, lov'd I not Honour more," declared that "stone walls do not a prison make" in another poem.
  - For 10 points, name this Cavalier poet who wrote "To Althea, from Prison." [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: (Republic of) Trinidad and Tobago (The first clue refers to The Dragon Can't Dance by Earl Lovelace.)
  - The protagonist of a novel set in this country spends all his time designing a dragon costume that he wears for Carnival. [PWR]
  - In a short story set in this country, the title character reveals the phrase "the past is deep" and shows the narrator his mango, coconut, and plum trees. [PWR]
  - A character from this country writes "the greatest poem in the world" at the speed of one line a month and calls himself (*) B.
  - Wordsworth.
  - In a novel set in this country, the protagonist loses his neighbor's calf because of a pundit's advice that he be kept away from trees and water due to his extra finger.
  - That character from this country takes a job as a sign painter, leading him to marry into the Tulsi family.
  - For 10 points, Miguel Street and A House for Mr. [GIVE]
  - Biswas are set in what Caribbean country, the birthplace of V.S.
  - Naipaul?

[T3] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Lovelace
  - In one work, this author implores "Ah braid no more that shining hair!" while asking for sex.
  - In another poem, he notes that he loved the addressee for twelve hours but now must be "sated with Varietie". [PWR]
  - This man, who penned an appeal to Amarantha and The (+) Scrutinie, wrote "I could not love thee Dear so much/ Lov'd I not Honour more" in apologizing to his lover for going to battle. [PWR]
  - The first three stanzas by one of his poems declare that "Gods that wanton in the Air", "Fishes that tipple in the Deep", and "Enlarg`ed Winds, that curl the Flood" all (*) "Know no such Liberty". [PWR]
  - This poet notes that "Minds innocent and quiet take/ that for an hermitage" after stating that "Stone walls do not a prison make".
  - For ten points, name this Cavalier poet of To Lucasta, Going to the Wars and To Althea, From Prison. [GIVE]

[T4] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Richard Lovelace
  - This writer addressed a woman whose "sad indifference" "both kills and doth reprieve" in a poem that describes its subject as "an angel here, the devil there." Another work by this poet praises the "sweetness mercy, majesty and glories" of his (*) King, and mentions that "birds that wanton in the air / Know no such liberty" as the speaker "When Love with unconfined wings / Hovers within my gates." "Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage" according to - for 10 points - what Cavalier poet's "To Althea, from Prison?" [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Terry Eagleton argued this novel's title character subverts the expectations of her class by choosing to die rather than marry her rapist in a book subtitled Writing, Sexuality, and Class Struggle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clarissa (by Samuel Richardson)):
    Name this novel whose villain rapes its title character at Mrs. Sinclair's brothel.
  Part 2 (ans: letters):
    After Clarissa is raped, she expresses her trauma through writing "mad" types of these documents with writing scattered throughout the page. Since Clarissa is an epistolary novel, its narrative is conveyed with these documents.
  Part 3 (ans: Lovelace [accept Robert Lovelace; accept Richard Lovelace]):
    In an alternate ending written by Lady Echlin, Clarissa's rapist, who has this surname, never rapes her and is instead guided towards virtue. A Cavalier poet with this surname wrote "To Althea, From Prison."

[B2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker calls the title animal the "wise emblem of our politic world" curled in "thine own self" in this author's poem "The Snail." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    Name this poet who described another insect getting drunk every night while on a "well-filled oaten beard" in "The Grasshopper," a poem dedicated to his "Noble Friend" Charles Cotton.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Marvell (the poems are "To His Noble Friend, Richard Lovelace, Upon His Poems" and "The Garden.")):
    This author wrote, "I see the envious caterpillar sit / On the fair blossom of each growing wit" in a poem commending Richard Lovelace. A poem by this author describes an "industrious bee" dwelling where thoughts become "green...in a green shade."
  Part 3 (ans: "To His Coy Mistress"):
    This Andrew Marvell poem, which describes how "worms shall try / That long-preserved virginity," opens by telling the addressee, "Had we but world enough and time."

[B3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's elaborate schemes include purchasing books to make inhabitants of a brothel seem well-read and renting all the rooms of an inn and filling them with impostors hired to impersonate his relatives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Richard Lovelace [prompt on Richard]):
    Name this archetypical rake whose drugging and imprisoning of a woman leads her to write ten "Mad Papers," the last of which includes sideways and diagonal text.
  Part 2 (ans: Clarissa [or Clarissa; or, The History of a Young Lady: Comprehending the Most Important Concerns of Private Life. And Particularly Shewing, the Distresses that May Attend the Misconduct Both of Parents and Children, In Relation to Marriage]):
    Lovelace is the villain of this approximately 1,500-page epistolary novel by Samuel Richardson, which Harold Bloom dubiously claimed to reread every year.
  Part 3 (ans: almost starting a fire [accept equivalents; accept answers indicating that she sets some curtains on fire or equivalents; accept answers indicating that she knocks over a candle or lamp or equivalents]):
    Lovelace carries Clarissa to bed after a maid accidentally performs this action while reading Pandosto. Clarissa insists that Lovelace must have performed this action, as he takes the opportunity to grope her. A description is acceptable.

[B4] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote that "I could not love thee, dear, so much, / Lov'd I not Honour more" in a poem explaining his decision to fight for Charles I. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    Name this Cavalier poet who fought under George Goring in the Bishops' Wars, which inspired him to write "To Lucasta, Going to the Warres."
  Part 2 (ans: roses [accept "To Lucasta. The Rose"; accept "A Red, Red Rose"]):
    While under Goring, Lovelace wrote another poem dedicated to Lucasta titled for one of these items. Robert Burns wrote a poem about a "red, red" one of these items.
  Part 3 (ans: marriages [or weddings] (The first line is "Sonnet. To Generall Goring" and the second line is "Prothalamion" by Edmund Spenser.)):
    The Bishops' Wars also inspired Lovelace to write a sonnet to Goring about one of these events. Another poem written for one of these events repeats the line "Sweet Thames, run softly, till I end my song."

[B5] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Samuel Richardson novel Clarissa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lovelace [accept Robert Lovelace or Richard Lovelace]):
    The novel's villain and Clarissa's rapist has this last name, which he shares with the Cavalier poet of "To Althea, from Prison."
  Part 2 (ans: duels):
    Lovelace's last words, "Let this expiate!" follow one of these events, which ends the novel. In a Henry Fielding novel, Mr. Fitzpatrick is stabbed during one of these events.
  Part 3 (ans: Paper X):
    Following Clarissa's rape, her letters take the form of the "mad papers," the last of which is this paper. This paper contains quotes from different English poets scattered about the page.

[B6] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of this poem "sings the sweetness, Mercy, Majesty / And glories of [his] King." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "To Althea, from Prison"):
    Name this poem that describes "flowing Cups... With no allaying Thames ("tems")." This poem considers "The Gods that wanton in the Air" and "Enlarged Winds, that curl the Flood" before concluding "Angels alone that soar above / Enjoy such Liberty."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    This Cavalier poet of "To Althea, from Prison" declared "I could not love thee (Dear) so much / Lov'd I not Honour more" in "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars."
  Part 3 (ans: carpe diem):
    Richard Lovelace's "To Amarantha, That She Would Dishevel Her Hair" and Robert Herrick's "To The Virgins, To Make Much of Time" are examples of poems described by this phrase. This two-word phrase, which is Latin for "seize the day," describes a common theme of Cavalier poetry.

[B7] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In Act 5 of Henry IV, Part One, Falstaff claims that this concept cannot "take away the grief of a wound" before calling it "a mere scutcheon." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: honour):
    Name this concept. Thomas Carew ["carey"] compared it to a giant that "keeps cowards out" in his poem "A Rapture," which ends by asking why this "goblin" concept, "which the world adores, should make men atheists, and not women whores?"
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    This Cavalier poet declared "I could not love thee (Dear) so much / Lov'd I not honour more" at the end of his poem "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars."
  Part 3 (ans: Ulysses (from Troilus and Cressida)):
    This crafty Shakespearean character asserts that "honour travels in a strait so narrow" in a speech beginning "Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back." In Act 1, Scene 3, he delivers a speech about the importance of social order which claims "Take but degree away, untune that string / And, hark, what discord follows!"

[B8] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet was arrested and imprisoned in Wormwood Scrubs due to his conscientious objection to the First World War. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Basil Cheesman Bunting):
    Identify this British poet who befriended and maintained a lifelong correspondence with Louis Zukofsky after a trip to New York. The lines "Brag, sweet tenor bull, / descant on Rawthey's madrigal, / each pebble its part / for the fells' late spring" open his best known work, Briggflatts.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Lovelace [pronounced like the world loveless, rather than love-lace]):
    This other poet wrote the line "Stone Walls do not a Prison make, / Nor Iron bars a Cage."
  Part 3 (ans: Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde):
    While in Reading Gaol, ["jail"] this author wrote De Profundis to his lover Lord Alfred Douglas.

[B9] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the involvement of poets in the English Civil War, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lovelace):
    This cavalier poet of "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars" wrote "To Althea, from Prison" while imprisoned during the first phase of the war.
  Part 2 (ans: Appleton House [or "Upon Appleton House"]):
    While tutoring the daughter of Parliamentary general Thomas Fairfax, Andrew Marvell described this home of his employer as a "Work of no foreign architect" in a country house poem titled for it.
  Part 3 (ans: John Suckling):
    A few years before being implicated in the First Army Plot, this poet compared a bride's feet to "little mice" and referenced having sex "With Bridget, and with Nell" in the poem "A Ballad upon a Wedding."

[B10] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In the second stanza of this poem, the speaker resolves to "with a stronger faith embrace A sword, a horse, a shield." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "To Lucasta, Going to the Warres"):
    Name this 1649 poem, that ends with the speaker claiming "I could not love thee, dear, so much, Loved I not honor more."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    "To Lucasta, Going to the Warres" was written by this Cavalier poet, who wrote "Stone Walls do not a Prison make, Nor Iron bars a Cage" in "To Althea, from Prison."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Carew [pronounced "Carey"]):
    This other Cavalier poet included the line "'Twas I that gave thee thy renown" in the poem "Know, Celia, Since Thou Art So Proud." Celia appears again in his best known poem, the 166-line "A Rapture."

[B11] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem admits "a new mistress now I chase" and promises that the speaker will "with a stronger faith embrace" that allegorical new lover. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars"):
    Name this poem which concludes by explaining "I could not love thee, dear, so much,/Loved I not honor more."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars" is a poem by this author of "To Althea From Prison."
  Part 3 (ans: "To Lucasta: Her Reserved Looks"):
    This other poem in the same series promises "Lucasta, frown and let me die, but smile and see I live." It claims that Lucasta's face is so variable that "I have seen an angel here, the devil there."

[B12] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Evidence suggests that this woman is based on Lucy Sacheverell, who was given a nickname meaning "pure light." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucasta):
    Name this woman who is the addressee of a poem which proclaims "I could not love thee, dear, so much, loved I not honor more," narrated by a soldier going off to war.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    This Cavalier poet wrote "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars." He also wrote that "stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage" inn his poem "To Althea, from Prison."
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Cotton):
    Lovelace's "The Grasshopper" is dedicated to this friend of his, a translator of Montaigne whose poem "The Retirement" appears in Walton's Compleat Angler. He shares his surname with an antiquarian whose library contained the Beowulf manuscript.

[B13] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: He wrote "Farewell, thou child of my right hand, and joy; my sin was too much hope of thee, lov'd boy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Identify this English poet of "On My First Son," also known for saying "I loved the man, and do honour his memory on this side idolatry as much as any" when referring to Shakespeare in his book Timber.
  Part 2 (ans: Celia):
    Jonson also wrote lyrics such as "Drink to me only with thine eyes" in a group of poems addressed to this woman.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    One of the so-called "Tribe of Ben" poets was this Cavalier poet that wrote "Stone Walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage" in "To Althea, From Prison."

[B14] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author won the second annual OCM Bocas Prize in 2012 for his book about Kangkala, Sonnyboy, and other inhabitants of Cascadu starting in the 1970s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Earl Lovelace):
    Name this author of Is Just a Movie who also wrote about Fisheye and Pariag living on Calvary Hill in another work.
  Part 2 (ans: Junot Diaz):
    This contemporary writer from the Caribbean wrote about Yunior, who compares Rafael Trujillo to Sauron, in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
  Part 3 (ans: This Is How You Lose Her):
    The longlist for the 2013 OCM Bocas Prize in fiction included this Diaz collection that starts out with "The Sun, the Moon, The Stars," about Yunior's relationship struggles with Magdalena.

[B15] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Neither the fish nor the winds but "angels alone, that soar above, / Enjoy such liberty" as the speaker of this poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "To Althea, From Prison"):
    Name this poem, whose speaker references Charles I when describing the "sweetness, mercy, majesty / And glories of my king," before following up its most iconic line with "Minds innocent and quite take / That for an hermitage."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    "To Althea, From Prison" was written by this Cavalier poet, who defended his participation in the English Civil War in some other poems addressed to "Lucasta."
  Part 3 (ans: Dishevel her hair [accept reasonable equivalents like unbraid or let down; anything involving messing up hair here is fine]):
    Lovelace makes the poor East Wind into a pervy rapist of the "spicy nest" in a poem beseeching Amarantha to perform this action, a not-so-subtle stand-in for getting down with the speaker, who notes that "joys so ripe, so little keep."
