=== STOCK CLUES: Falconet ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Etienne Maurice Falconet ("FALCON"-ay)
  - Responding to a work by this sculptor discussed in Mary Sheriff's Moved by Love, a critic wrote: "emulator of the gods, if they have animated the statue you have renewed the miracle by animating the sculptor." That sculpture by this artist shows a cupid kissing the hand of a woman standing on a pedestal as her creator kneels in front of her.
  - This sculptor created his Bather and small figurines of children based on Francois Boucher paintings while working at the Sevres Manufactory.
  - This artist of Pygmalion and Galatea contributed his "Reflections on Sculpture" to the Encyclopedie of his friend Denis Diderot.
  - This student of Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne had his own daughter-in-law, Marie-Anne Collot, model the face of the ruler depicted in his best-known work.
  - That work by this sculptor sits atop the heaviest stone ever pulled by humans, the "Thunder Stone," and was financed by Catherine the Great.
  - For 10 points, what Rococo sculptor created an equestrian statue of Peter the Great known as the Bronze Horseman? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series of paintings concludes with a work depicting a couple courting each other next to a pile of letters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Progress of Love):
    Name this cycle of four paintings originally commissioned for an estate at Louveciennes ("LOO-vuh-see-ehn"). One work in this series shows a woman in a yellow dress crowning a half-reclining man with a floral wreath.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Honore Fragonard):
    The Progress of Love cycle was created by this Rococo artist, whose other paintings of flirting couples include Blindman's Buff and The Swing.
  Part 3 (ans: Etienne Maurice Falconet):
    This sculptor's works, including Mischievous Cupid, provided the basis of the watchful statues in some of Fragonard's paintings of loving couples. This sculptor also created a work that used the 1,250-ton Thunder Stone as a pedestal.

[B2] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted herself at the canvas with her students Marie-Marguerite Carreaux de Rosemond and Marie-Gabrielle Capet standing behind her in a Self-Portrait with Two Pupils. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adelaide Labille-Guiard des Vertus):
    Name this 18th-century French painter and miniaturist who advocated for female artists as one of the first women in the Royal Academy and as the first to set up a studio for her female students in the Louvre.
  Part 2 (ans: Rococo [prompt on late Baroque]):
    Labille-Guiard is usually categorized with this Baroque-derived 18th-century artistic movement that emphasized ornate decoration, exemplified by Jean-Antoines Watteau's work.
  Part 3 (ans: Etienne Maurice Falconet ("FAL-CON-ay")):
    This Rococo sculptor is best known for a bronze equestrian statue of Peter the Great whose pedestal, the "Thunder Stone," is the largest single rock ever moved by humans.

[B3] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist separately published the sculpture section of Denis Diderot's Encyclopedie after he was consulted for it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Etienne Maurice Falconet):
    Name this French neoclassical sculptor, who is best known for a statue of Peter the Great that later titled an Alexander Pushkin poem.
  Part 2 (ans: horse):
    Peter the Great rides atop one of these animals in that equestrian statue by Falconet.
  Part 3 (ans: the Thunder Stone):
    Marinos Carburin developed a metallic sled for the transportation of this stone that serves as the pedestal for The Bronze Horseman. Although later reduced in size by Falconet, it remains the largest stone moved by humans at 1,250 tons.

[B4] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A version of this sculpture with the drapery around the heads of the central figures removed was gifted to Claude Debussy, who kept it in his studio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Waltz [or The Waltzers; or La valse; or Les valseurs]):
    Name this sculpture in which a man standing on one foot leans in as if to kiss a woman whose dress drapes to the side. It was possibly inspired by the artist Camille Claudel's burgeoning love affair with a mentor.
  Part 2 (ans: bronze):
    Camille Claudel's The Waltz, like her mentor's The Thinker, was cast first in plaster and then in this medium. Donatello's David was also made with this metal alloy.
  Part 3 (ans: Etienne Maurice Falconet ("FALCON"-ay)):
    The 1,250 ton Thunder Stone is the pedestal of this rococo sculptor's The Bronze Horseman. His student and daughter-in-law Marie-Anne Collot likely made the head of Peter the Great for that statue.

[B5] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The key task of sculpting the head of this statue was left to its sculptor's student Marie-Anne Collot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bronze Horseman):
    Name this equestrian statue of Peter the Great located in the Senate Square of his namesake city.
  Part 2 (ans: Etienne Falconet):
    The Bronze Horseman is the best known work of this French Rococo sculptor. He adapted his "Reflections on Sculpture" from an article he wrote for Diderot's Encyclopedie.
  Part 3 (ans: Milo of Croton):
    Falconet won renown for a sculpture of this historical figure early in his career. Pierre Puget is also known for a sculpture of this historical figure in which which he struggles against a lion clawing at his thigh.

[B6] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Cupid holds a finger to his lips in this sculptor's Menacing Love. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Etienne Maurice Falconet):
    Name this French sculptor of Milo of Croton who was patronized by Madame de Pompadour. His sculpture of Peter the Great on horseback is called The Bronze Horseman.
  Part 2 (ans: Rococo):
    Falconet is commonly associated with this ornate artistic movement from the 18th century. Other members of this movement include Antoine Watteau and terracotta enthusiast Clodion.
  Part 3 (ans: Edme Bouchardon):
    This Rococo master showed an impish-looking Cupid with a stolen weapon in Amor Fashioning a Bow After the Club of Hercules.

[B7] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about French sculpture, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Arc de Triomphe de l'Etoile):
    Francois Rude created the sculpture group Departure of the Volunteers, also known as La Marseillaise, for one of the four pillars of this monument; the other three depict events from the Napoleonic Wars.
  Part 2 (ans: Etienne Maurice Falconet):
    This preeminent Rococo sculptor was working at his porcelain factory at Sevres when Catherine the Great invited him to Russia, where he sculpted the Bronze Horseman as a monument to Peter the Great.
  Part 3 (ans: The Thinker [or Le Penseur]):
    This component of Rodin's Gates of Hell depicts a sitting man, who may represent intellect or philosophy, with his chin resting on one hand.
