=== STOCK CLUES: Vorticism ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Vorticism
  - This art movement's first publication called English humour "the great barbarous weapon of the genius among races" and its manifesto begins "Beyond Action and Reaction we would establish ourselves".
  - This art movement railed against Futurism, calling it "superficial", but copied its technique of concrete poetry.
  - TS Eliot and Ezra Pound were published in its magazine, which ran for only two issues and was named BLAST.
  - Frederick Etchells was an artist in this movement, and works by this movement's most famous artist include Slow Attack and Workshop.
  - For ten points, name this British pre-war modernist art movement spearheaded by Wyndham Lewis. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A manifesto in verse uses all caps to say that Impressionism and Futurism are the "CORPSES" of this concept, whose adherents rely solely on the "primary pigment of his art." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: vortex [or vortices; accept Vorticism]):
    Name this "point of maximum energy" that titles a poem which first appeared in BLAST magazine.
  Part 2 (ans: The Cantos [or the Pisan Cantos]):
    After coining the name for the literary and artistic movement of Vorticism, Ezra Pound wrote much of this seminal collection of Imagist poetry from a Pisan prison.
  Part 3 (ans: H.D. [or Hilda Doolittle]):
    Ezra Pound's "Vortex" lauds the imagery in the lines "whirl up sea - whirl your pointed pines," from "Oread," a poem by this female Imagist with whom Pound had been in a relationship.

[B2] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A reconstruction of this sculpture at Birmingham Museum was made in 1974 by Ken Cook and Ann Christopher, after its artist deconstructed the original during World War One. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Rock Drill):
    Name this 1913 sculpture, which consisted of a plaster torso placed on top of some second-hand industrial equipment.
  Part 2 (ans:  Vorticism [accept word forms]):
    Although Jacob Epstein was not formally a member of it, his sculpture Rock Drill is often seen as a peak of sculpture from this movement, popularised through Wyndham Lewis' BLAST magazine.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel  Duchamp [or Henri-Robert-Marcel  Duchamp ]):
    Due to its incorporation of unaltered industrial equipment, Rock Drill is often compared to this French artist's readymade Fountain , which consists of an upturned urinal.

[B3] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer argued that only the work of great artists could properly provide a "sudden insight into circumjacent conditions." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound]):
    Identify this writer who propounded his theory of the "luminous detail" in the essay "I Gather the Limbs of Osiris."
  Part 2 (ans: reading [accept The ABC of Reading or How to Read]):
    Pound distilled the key points of his book on How to perform this action into a book titled for the ABC of this task. The New Criticism movement encouraged the analysis of text through the "close" form of this action.
  Part 3 (ans: the Vortex [or Vorticism]):
    Pound discarded his theory of "luminous detail" in favor of one focused on this object, which he defined as the "point of maximum energy." A movement named for this object was co-founded by Wyndham Lewis.

[B4] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This movement's manifesto listed things to be "blasted," such as England's climate "for its sins and infections," and things to be "blessed," like hairdressers and mariners, since they both fight nature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: vorticism):
    Name this British literary and artistic movement, whose manifesto was published by Wyndham Lewis and published in the magazine BLAST.
  Part 2 (ans: The Good Soldier):
    The first edition of BLAST published a short story that would grow into this novel, which begins "This is the saddest story I have ever heard." It ends with the narrator passively letting Edward cut his throat with a pen-knife.
  Part 3 (ans: Ezra Pound (Yes, Ezra Pound's wife's maiden name really was "Shakespear." Her mother, Olivia Shakespear, was also a novelist and had an affair with Yeats.)):
    This man's wife, Dorothy Shakespear, published some paintings in BLAST. He named the movement of vorticism as well as using its influence in The Cantos.

[B5] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each-answer the following about Henry Tonks, Britain's answer to William Merritt Chase:
  Part 1 (ans: FelixSlade):
    Tonks took up an art history professorship named for this man at UCL's art school, which is also named for him. This collector also endowed namesake professorships at Cambridge and Oxford, the latter of which was first held by John Ruskin.
  Part 2 (ans: World War I [or WWI or The Great War]):
    Henry Tonks saw a "crisis of brilliance" in his class of students at the Slade School just prior to this war. During this war, the Britain War Memorials Committee commissioned John Singer Sargent to paint Gassed.
  Part 3 (ans: Vorticism [accept word forms]):
    Another of Tonks' talented students was David Bomberg, whose Jewish heritage did not stop him from producing The Mud Bath, a defining image of this movement, which was announced in the magazine of BLAST and led by the anti-Semites Wyndham Lewis and Ezra Pound.

[B6] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An owl flies off to the distant moonlight night in this painting, which depicts parts being recycled at the Morris Motor car factory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Totes Meer [or Dead Sea]):
    Name this German-titled war painting by the Surrealist English artist Paul Nash, which is populated by a pile of crashed Luftwaffe planes.
  Part 2 (ans: Caspar David Friedrich):
    Totes Meer strongly resembles The Sea of Ice, a similarly jagged, desolate landscape painted by this German Romantic artist of Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog.
  Part 3 (ans: Vorticism [or word forms, such as Vorticist]):
    The angular, harsh war paintings of Paul Nash were influenced by the canvases of this British Modernist art movement, whose manifesto was signed by Jessica Dismorr, Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, and Wyndham Lewis, and was published in the inaugural issue of BLAST.
