# Colonial America
> Settlement, colonial society, and conflict from Jamestown through the eve of the Revolution.
Iroquois Confederacy | Six Nations alliance (Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga, Seneca, Tuscarora) of upstate New York; largely allied with the British during the Revolution.
Jamestown | First permanent English colony (1607) in Virginia, founded by the Virginia Company; John Smith and Pocahontas figure in its history.
Quakers | Religious Society of Friends whose pacifism and egalitarianism shaped Pennsylvania under founder William Penn.
Edmund Andros | Royal governor of the Dominion of New England, overthrown in Boston during the 1689 Glorious Revolution.
Anne Hutchinson | Puritan dissenter banished from Massachusetts Bay for antinomian views; helped found Rhode Island settlements.
Bacon's Rebellion | 1676 Virginia uprising led by Nathaniel Bacon against Governor Berkeley over frontier defense policy.
James Oglethorpe | Founder and first governor of the Georgia colony (1732), envisioned as a refuge for debtors.
John | 
John Winthrop | First governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony; delivered the "City upon a Hill" sermon envisioning a model Puritan society.
King Philip's War | 1675-76 devastating conflict between New England colonists and a Wampanoag-led Native alliance under Metacomet ("King Philip").
Peter Stuyvesant | Last Dutch director-general of New Netherland, who surrendered New Amsterdam to the English in 1664.
Roger Williams | Puritan minister banished from Massachusetts for advocating religious liberty; founded Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
tobacco | Cash crop that saved the Jamestown colony economically, cultivated by John Rolfe and dependent on enslaved and indentured labor.
William Penn | Quaker proprietor who founded Pennsylvania (1681) as a haven of religious tolerance.
Barbados | English Caribbean sugar colony whose planter class and slave codes shaped the early Carolina colony.
Cotton Mather | Puritan minister whose writings fueled the Salem witch trials; also promoted smallpox inoculation.
Montreal | Quebec city targeted by an unsuccessful 1775 American invasion during the Revolutionary War.
Puritans | English Protestant dissenters who settled Massachusetts Bay seeking to build a godly "City upon a Hill."
smallpox | Epidemic disease devastating Native American populations after European contact; inoculation was promoted by Cotton Mather.
St. Augustine | Florida city founded by Spain in 1565, the oldest continuously occupied European settlement in the US.
William | 
French and Indian War | 1754-63 North American theater of the Seven Years' War, ending French colonial power and setting up British tax disputes.
James Edward Oglethorpe | Full name of Georgia's founder, who envisioned the colony as a refuge for debtors.
Lenape | Also called the Delaware; Algonquian nation of the mid-Atlantic who negotiated early treaties with William Penn.
Mississippian culture | Pre-Columbian Native civilization known for mound-building centers like Cahokia.
Plymouth Colony | Separatist Pilgrim settlement founded 1620 after arriving on the Mayflower; site of the first Thanksgiving.
Pocahontas | Powhatan leader's daughter whose relations with Jamestown colonists, including marriage to John Rolfe, eased early tensions.
Albany Congress | 1754 meeting where Benjamin Franklin proposed his unadopted Plan of Union among the colonies.
Jacob Leisler | New York merchant who seized control during a 1689 uprising against royal authority, later executed for treason.
John Sassamon | Christianized Wampanoag interpreter whose murder helped trigger King Philip's War.
Jonathan Edwards | Puritan theologian whose fiery sermons like "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God" drove the First Great Awakening.
Junipero Serra | Spanish Franciscan friar who founded a chain of California missions in the 1700s.
Kingdom of Spain | European power that colonized Florida, the Southwest, and California before ceding territory to the US.
Massachusetts Bay Colony | Puritan colony founded 1630 by John Winthrop, centered on Boston.
Pontiac | Ottawa leader of the 1763 uprising against British rule in the Great Lakes region.
Pope | Pueblo religious leader who organized the 1680 Pueblo Revolt that drove Spanish colonists from New Mexico.
Stono Rebellion | 1739 South Carolina slave uprising, the largest in the colonial South, leading to harsher slave codes.
Tuscarora | North Carolina nation defeated in the 1711-15 Tuscarora War, later joining the Iroquois Confederacy as its sixth nation.
William Bradford | Plymouth Colony governor and chronicler of the Pilgrims' journey in Of Plymouth Plantation.
Cahokia | Largest pre-Columbian Mississippian city, near modern St. Louis, known for its earthen mounds.
First Great Awakening | 1730s-40s religious revival led by preachers like Jonathan Edwards and George Whitefield.
fur | Trade commodity driving early colonial economies and exploration, especially French and Dutch ventures.
House of Burgesses | First representative assembly in English North America, established in Virginia in 1619.
indentured servants | Laborers bound to work a set term in exchange for passage to the colonies, an early source of unfree labor.
Iroquois League | Six Nations confederacy of upstate New York, largely allied with the British during the Revolution.
Lenni Lenape | Also called the Delaware; Algonquian nation of the mid-Atlantic who negotiated early treaties with William Penn.
London | 
longhouses | Traditional multi-family dwellings of the Iroquois nations of the Northeast.
Methodism | Protestant denomination that spread rapidly in America through revivalism and circuit riders.
Mohawk | Easternmost nation of the Iroquois Confederacy, based in what is now upstate New York.
mounds | Earthen ceremonial and burial structures built by pre-Columbian Mississippian and earlier Native cultures.
Myles Standish | Military commander of Plymouth Colony who helped defend the Pilgrim settlement.
Navigation Acts | British trade laws restricting colonial commerce to English ships and ports, a source of pre-Revolutionary friction.
New Sweden | Short-lived 1638-55 Swedish colony along the Delaware River, later absorbed by the Dutch and English.
Paxton Boys | Pennsylvania frontier vigilantes who massacred peaceful Native Americans in 1763 and marched on Philadelphia.
Powhatan | Paramount chief of the Tidewater Virginia confederacy encountered by the Jamestown colonists; father of Pocahontas.
Powhatan Confederacy | Alliance of Tidewater Virginia nations under Chief Powhatan that first interacted with the Jamestown settlers.
Quebec | French colonial city and target of failed American invasions in 1775, and a key theater in the earlier French and Indian War.
rice | Cash crop whose cultivation with enslaved labor built the wealth of colonial South Carolina and Georgia.
Spanish Florida | Spanish colonial territory centered on St. Augustine, ceded to the US in 1819.
Wabanaki Confederacy | Alliance of Northeastern Algonquian nations who resisted English expansion in Maine and the Maritimes.
William Berkeley | Longtime royal governor of Virginia whose harsh rule provoked Bacon's Rebellion in 1676.
Yamasee War | 1715-17 conflict between Southeastern Native nations and English colonists in Carolina, nearly destroying the colony.
Acadia | French colonial region in Canada's Maritimes whose population was expelled by the British in 1755, some settling in Louisiana as "Cajuns."
Alta California | Spanish, later Mexican, province encompassing present-day California before US annexation.
Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca | Spanish explorer whose shipwreck and years wandering the Gulf Coast produced an early account of the American Southwest.
Antinomian controversy | 1636-38 Massachusetts Bay religious dispute centered on Anne Hutchinson's challenge to Puritan orthodoxy.
Blackbeard | Notorious pirate (Edward Teach) who terrorized the Atlantic coast before being killed off North Carolina in 1718.
Cato | 
Chaco Canyon | New Mexico site of major pre-Columbian Ancestral Puebloan great houses and ceremonial architecture.
Christopher Columbus | Genoese explorer whose 1492 voyage for Spain initiated sustained European contact with the Americas.
Church of England | Established church of several colonies, notably Virginia, whose dominance shaped religious dissent and colonization patterns.
Colony of Virginia | First permanent English colony in North America, established at Jamestown in 1607.
corn | Staple crop learned from Native Americans that sustained early colonial settlements.
Culpeper's Rebellion | 1677 uprising of settlers against proprietary rule in Albemarle, colonial North Carolina.
Delaware River | Mid-Atlantic waterway Washington famously crossed in 1776 to attack Trenton.
Dominion of New England | Short-lived 1686-89 consolidated royal colony under Edmund Andros, overthrown after the Glorious Revolution.
Edinburgh | 
George | 
Green | 
Hudson's Bay Company | British fur-trading enterprise dominating commerce in the Pacific Northwest and Canada.
Iroquois | Six Nations confederacy of upstate New York, largely allied with the British during the Revolution.
Jamaica | British Caribbean sugar colony whose plantation slave society paralleled patterns in the American South.
Jamestown, Virginia | First permanent English colony (1607), founded by the Virginia Company.
John Rolfe | Jamestown colonist who introduced profitable tobacco cultivation and married Pocahontas.
Leisler's rebellion | 1689 New York uprising led by Jacob Leisler amid the Glorious Revolution's colonial repercussions.
Mandan people | Upper Missouri River nation who hosted Lewis and Clark for the winter of 1804-05.
Mary Rowlandson | Puritan woman whose captivity narrative recounted her abduction during King Philip's War.
Mason-Dixon Line | Surveyed boundary between Pennsylvania and Maryland that later symbolized the divide between free and slave states.
Matthew | 
Native Americans | Indigenous peoples of North America whose nations and cultures predated, and were transformed by, European colonization.
Oneida | One of the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy, notable for aiding the American cause during the Revolution.
Pequot War | 1636-38 conflict in which New England colonists nearly destroyed the Pequot nation.
Peter Minuit | Dutch colonial director who purchased Manhattan Island from Native inhabitants in 1626.
Plymouth Bay Colony | Separatist Pilgrim settlement founded 1620 after arriving on the Mayflower; site of the first Thanksgiving.
Pontiac's Rebellion | 1763 Native uprising against British rule in the Great Lakes led by the Ottawa leader Pontiac.
Pontiac's War | Alternate name for the 1763 Native uprising against British rule led by Pontiac.
Pueblo people | Southwestern nations who launched a successful 1680 revolt expelling Spanish colonizers from New Mexico for over a decade.
Quebec City | Fortified French colonial capital targeted by a failed American invasion in 1775.
Queen Anne's War | 1702-13 North American theater of the War of the Spanish Succession between English and French colonists.
Regulators | 1760s-70s North Carolina backcountry vigilante movement protesting corrupt colonial officials.
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations | Official colonial name of Rhode Island, founded by Roger Williams for religious dissenters.
Roanoke Island | Site of the failed 1580s "Lost Colony" English settlement in present-day North Carolina.
Roman Catholic Church | Religious institution whose adherents, especially Irish and Italian immigrants, faced discrimination in a largely Protestant nation.
Samuel de Champlain | French explorer and "Father of New France" who founded Quebec City in 1608.
Scotland | 
ships | 
slave ships | Vessels transporting enslaved Africans across the Atlantic to American colonies under brutal conditions.
snakes | 
taverns | Colonial gathering places serving as inns, social hubs, and sites of political organizing before the Revolution.
tobacco industry | Cash-crop sector that saved the Jamestown colony economically, dependent on enslaved and indentured labor.
Wampanoag | New England nation whose leader Massasoit aided the Plymouth Pilgrims; later led by Metacomet in King Philip's War.
Wonders of the Invisible World | Cotton Mather's 1693 book defending the Salem witch trials' legitimacy.
wood | Abundant raw material fueling colonial shipbuilding, construction, and the naval-stores trade.

# American Revolution and the Founding
> The imperial crisis, the war for independence, and the creation of the constitutional republic.
Thomas Jefferson | Principal author of the Declaration of Independence; 3rd President; doubled the nation's size with the Louisiana Purchase.
Alexander Hamilton | First Treasury Secretary; architect of the national bank and federal assumption of state debts; killed in an 1804 duel with Aaron Burr.
George Washington | Commander of the Continental Army; presided over the Constitutional Convention; first President.
John Adams | 2nd President and Federalist; signed the Alien and Sedition Acts; father of John Quincy Adams.
Abigail Adams | Wife of John Adams whose letters urging him to "remember the ladies" reveal Revolutionary-era politics and women's concerns.
Benjamin Franklin | Polymath diplomat who secured French support for the Revolution and helped draft the Declaration and Constitution.
John Jay | First Chief Justice; co-author of the Federalist Papers; negotiated the 1794 Jay Treaty with Britain.
Whiskey Rebellion | 1794 Pennsylvania farmers' uprising against a federal excise tax, suppressed by Washington leading troops personally.
Battle of Cowpens | 1781 American victory in South Carolina under Daniel Morgan that helped turn the Revolutionary War's Southern campaign.
Ethan Allen | Green Mountain Boys leader who captured Fort Ticonderoga from the British in 1775.
First Amendment | Constitutional guarantee of speech, press, religion, and assembly, ratified as part of the 1791 Bill of Rights.
Patrick Henry | Virginia orator famed for "Give me liberty, or give me death!"; later an Anti-Federalist opponent of the Constitution.
Benedict Arnold | American general whose heroics at Saratoga were overshadowed by his 1780 defection to the British as a traitor.
Charles Cornwallis | British general whose surrender at Yorktown in 1781 effectively ended the Revolutionary War.
James Wilkinson | General later exposed as a paid Spanish agent; implicated in the Conway Cabal and Aaron Burr's conspiracy.
Lord Dunmore | Last royal governor of Virginia who issued a 1775 proclamation offering freedom to enslaved people who joined the British.
Quasi War | Undeclared 1798-1800 naval conflict with France under John Adams, sparked by the XYZ Affair.
Thomas Hutchinson | Last civilian royal governor of Massachusetts, whose loyalist stance and burned mansion inflamed pre-Revolutionary tensions.
Aaron Burr | Jefferson's first-term VP who killed Alexander Hamilton in an 1804 duel and was later tried for treason over a Western conspiracy.
American Revolutionary War | 1775-1783 war in which the thirteen colonies won independence from Britain.
France | Key ally that provided troops, navy, and funding securing American independence at Yorktown.
Loyalists | Colonists who remained faithful to the British Crown during the Revolution, many later fleeing to Canada.
Paul Revere | Silversmith famed for his midnight ride warning of British troop movements before Lexington and Concord.
XYZ Affair | 1797-98 diplomatic scandal in which French agents demanded bribes from US envoys, provoking the Quasi War.
American Revolution | 1765-1783 colonial movement for independence from Britain, culminating in war and the founding of the United States.
Articles of Confederation | Weak first US governing framework (1781-89) lacking taxing power, replaced by the Constitution.
Banastre Tarleton | Notorious British cavalry officer ("Bloody Tarleton") defeated at the Battle of Cowpens.
Battle of Saratoga | 1777 American victory in New York that convinced France to enter the war as an ally.
Fort Ticonderoga | New York fort captured by Ethan Allen's Green Mountain Boys in 1775.
Francis Marion | "Swamp Fox" guerrilla leader who harried British forces in the South Carolina backcountry.
James Madison | "Father of the Constitution"; co-author of the Federalist Papers; 4th President who led the nation through the War of 1812.
Joseph Brant | Mohawk leader who fought alongside the British against American forces during the Revolution.
Lake Champlain | New York/Vermont waterway, site of key Revolutionary War and War of 1812 naval battles.
Marbury v. Madison | 1803 Supreme Court case establishing judicial review under Chief Justice John Marshall.
Sally Hemings | Enslaved woman at Monticello with whom Thomas Jefferson fathered several children.
Samuel Chase | Declaration signer and later Supreme Court justice impeached, and acquitted, in 1804 for partisan conduct.
Stamp Act of 1765 | British tax on printed materials that sparked colonial protest under "no taxation without representation."
Townshend Acts | 1767 British taxes on imported goods that provoked colonial boycotts and the Boston Massacre.
United States of America | Nation founded by the 1776 Declaration of Independence from Britain.
"Mad" Anthony Wayne | Revolutionary War general who later crushed Native resistance at the Battle of Fallen Timbers (1794).
Albert Gallatin | Long-serving Treasury Secretary under Jefferson and Madison who reduced the national debt.
Battle of Brandywine Creek | 1777 British victory in Pennsylvania that opened the way to capturing Philadelphia.
Battle of Monmouth | 1778 New Jersey battle marking the Continental Army's improved discipline after Valley Forge training.
Battle of Yorktown | 1781 siege where Cornwallis's surrender to Washington and French forces effectively ended the Revolutionary War.
Benjamin | 
Boston Massacre | 1770 killing of five colonists by British soldiers, used as propaganda for the independence cause.
Conway Cabal | Alleged 1777-78 plot by officers to replace Washington as Continental Army commander.
Edmond-Charles Genet | French minister ("Citizen Genet") who provoked a diplomatic crisis by recruiting Americans for France against Washington's neutrality.
Intolerable Acts | 1774 punitive British laws closing Boston's port after the Tea Party, provoking the First Continental Congress.
James Callender | Scandal-mongering journalist who first publicized the Jefferson-Hemings relationship allegations.
liberty | Central Revolutionary-era rallying concept behind the Sons of Liberty and Patrick Henry's "Give me liberty" rhetoric.
Marquis de Lafayette | French aristocrat who volunteered for the Continental Army and became a key ally of Washington.
Mercy Otis Warren | Massachusetts writer whose plays and pamphlets promoted the patriot cause; later wrote an early history of the Revolution.
Samuel Adams | Massachusetts agitator who organized the Sons of Liberty and helped plan the Boston Tea Party.
Secretary of War | Original cabinet post overseeing the Army before being replaced by the Secretary of Defense in 1947.
Sons of Liberty | Colonial resistance organization that protested British taxes through actions like the Boston Tea Party.
Stamp Act | 1765 British tax on printed materials that sparked colonial protest under "no taxation without representation."
tea parties | Colonial protests, most famously Boston's in 1773, destroying taxed tea to protest British policy.
Valley Forge | Pennsylvania winter encampment (1777-78) where Washington's army endured hardship and drilled under von Steuben.
Adams family | Massachusetts political dynasty including presidents John and John Quincy Adams and diarist Abigail Adams.
American flag | National banner whose stars-and-stripes design dates to the Revolutionary era, traditionally credited to Betsy Ross.
Anti-Federalist Papers | Essays opposing ratification of the Constitution, warning of excessive central power and demanding a Bill of Rights.
Battle of Bunker Hill | 1775 costly British victory near Boston that demonstrated colonial militia could stand against regulars.
Battle of Camden | 1780 disastrous American defeat in South Carolina that routed General Gates's forces.
Benjamin Banneker | Free Black mathematician and astronomer who helped survey the boundaries of Washington, D.C.
Benjamin Lincoln | Continental Army general who accepted Cornwallis's sword at the Yorktown surrender.
Bernardo de Galvez | Spanish governor of Louisiana who aided the American cause by fighting the British along the Gulf Coast.
Casimir Pulaski | Polish cavalry officer who fought for American independence and died at the Siege of Savannah.
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney | South Carolina Federalist statesman and diplomat, twice a presidential candidate, remembered for the XYZ Affair retort "millions for defense."
Concord, Massachusetts | Site, with Lexington, of the first shots of the Revolutionary War in April 1775.
Contract Clause | Constitutional provision barring states from impairing contractual obligations, litigated in early Marshall Court cases.
Culper Ring | Patriot spy network operating in British-occupied New York during the Revolutionary War.
Declaration of Independence | 1776 document, principally authored by Jefferson, proclaiming the colonies' separation from Britain.
Dolley Madison | James Madison's wife, famed for saving Washington's portrait as the British burned the White House in 1814.
Federalist Party | Hamilton-led party favoring strong federal government, the nation's first political party.
Fort Stanwix | New York fort besieged in 1777 and site of an earlier treaty ceding Iroquois land.
George Clinton | New York's first governor and later VP under Jefferson and Madison; opposed ratification of the Constitution.
George Rogers Clark | Frontier militia leader who captured British forts in the Illinois Country during the Revolutionary War.
George Washington's farewell address | 1796 statement warning against permanent foreign alliances and political factions as Washington left office.
Gouverneur Morris | Constitutional Convention delegate credited with drafting the Constitution's final wording, including its Preamble.
Henry | 
Henry Knox | Continental Army artillery commander who hauled captured cannon from Ticonderoga to besiege Boston; first Secretary of War.
John Burgoyne | British general whose army surrendered at Saratoga in 1777, a turning point of the war.
John Locke | English philosopher whose social-contract theory of natural rights profoundly influenced Jefferson's Declaration of Independence.
John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore | Last royal governor of Virginia who issued a 1775 proclamation offering freedom to enslaved people who joined the British.
John Rutledge | South Carolina statesman and Constitutional Convention delegate whose Supreme Court Chief Justice nomination was rejected.
judicial review | Power of courts to strike down unconstitutional laws, established in Marbury v. Madison (1803).
Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions | 1798 statements by Jefferson and Madison asserting states could nullify unconstitutional federal laws, targeting the Alien and Sedition Acts.
land surveying | Trade practiced by young George Washington, foundational to establishing colonial property boundaries.
Monticello | Thomas Jefferson's Virginia plantation home, which he designed himself.
Mount Vernon | George Washington's Virginia plantation estate on the Potomac.
Northwest Territory | Region north of the Ohio River organized by the 1787 Northwest Ordinance, which banned slavery there.
Randolph | 
Royal Navy | British naval force whose impressment of American sailors and blockades provoked conflict in the Revolution and War of 1812.
Secretary of State | Cabinet post first held by Thomas Jefferson, overseeing foreign affairs.
Shays' Rebellion | 1786-87 Massachusetts farmers' uprising over debt that exposed the Articles of Confederation's weakness.
Sullivan Expedition | 1779 Continental Army campaign that destroyed Iroquois villages allied with the British in New York.
the Federalist Papers | Essays by Hamilton, Madison, and Jay urging ratification of the Constitution.
Turtle | Early hand-powered submersible used in a failed 1776 attempt to attack a British warship in New York harbor.
United States Navy | Naval branch tracing its origins to the Continental Navy of the Revolutionary War.
West Point | US Military Academy on the Hudson River, site of Benedict Arnold's attempted betrayal to the British.
William Franklin | Benjamin Franklin's illegitimate son who remained a loyalist royal governor of New Jersey, estranging the two.
William Tryon | Last royal governor of colonial New York, and earlier North Carolina, who suppressed the Regulator movement.

# The Early Republic and Jacksonian America
> Party formation, westward expansion, and mass democracy from Washington through the 1850s.
Andrew Jackson | 7th President; War of 1812 hero at New Orleans; spoils system, Bank War, and Indian Removal defined "Jacksonian Democracy."
Cherokee | Southeastern nation forcibly removed along the 1838 Trail of Tears to Indian Territory; developed a syllabary under Sequoyah.
cotton | Cash crop whose demand, spurred by Eli Whitney's gin, entrenched slavery and drove the antebellum South's economy ("King Cotton").
War of 1812 | Conflict with Britain featuring the burning of Washington, the writing of "The Star-Spangled Banner," and Jackson's Battle of New Orleans.
John Quincy Adams | 6th President and son of John Adams; negotiated the Adams-Onis Treaty; later fought the gag rule as a congressman.
John Tyler | 10th President; first vice president to succeed a president who died in office (Harrison); annexed Texas.
Seminoles | Florida nation that fought three wars against US removal efforts, resisting under leaders like Osceola.
Daniel Webster | Massachusetts senator and orator famed for his Senate debates with Hayne and Calhoun defending the Union.
Martin Van Buren | 8th President and Jackson's VP; built the Democratic Party machine; presided over the Panic of 1837.
Mexican-American War | 1846-48 conflict sparked by the Texas annexation and a border dispute; ended with the Mexican Cession under the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
Mormons | Church founded by Joseph Smith; migrated under Brigham Young to Utah after persecution and Smith's murder at Nauvoo.
Panic of 1837 | Financial crisis following Jackson's Bank War and Specie Circular; caused a severe, prolonged depression under Van Buren.
Whig Party | Party opposing Jackson's executive power, led by Henry Clay and Daniel Webster; collapsed over slavery in the 1850s.
American Colonization Society | Organization founded 1816 to resettle free Black Americans in Africa, establishing Liberia.
Erie Canal | 1825 waterway linking the Hudson River to Lake Erie, spurring New York's commercial rise and westward migration.
Sam Houston | Commander who won Texas independence at San Jacinto; first president of the Republic of Texas and later US senator/governor.
Tecumseh | Shawnee leader who built a pan-Indian confederacy to resist US expansion; died fighting for the British at the Battle of the Thames.
Battle of New Orleans | Andrew Jackson's decisive 1815 victory over the British, fought after the Treaty of Ghent had already ended the War of 1812.
Henry Clay | "Great Compromiser" senator behind the Missouri Compromise, American System, and Compromise of 1850.
Lewis Cass | Michigan senator and 1848 Democratic presidential nominee known for advocating "popular sovereignty" on slavery.
Osceola | Seminole leader who resisted removal from Florida during the Second Seminole War.
Second Bank of the United States | National bank whose recharter Andrew Jackson vetoed in 1832, sparking the "Bank War."
Second Great Awakening | Early 19th-century Protestant revival movement that fueled reform causes like abolitionism and temperance.
Amos Kendall | Member of Andrew Jackson's unofficial "Kitchen Cabinet" of advisors.
Anti-Masonic Party | First American third party, formed in the 1820s opposing Freemasonry and helping pioneer the national nominating convention.
Battle of Bladensburg | 1814 rout of American militia that opened the road for the British burning of Washington.
Battle of the Alamo | 1836 siege in San Antonio where Texas defenders including Bowie, Crockett, and Travis died fighting Santa Anna's army.
Franklin Pierce | 14th President whose support for the Kansas-Nebraska Act deepened sectional strife.
Horace Mann | Reformer known as the "father of American public education" for building Massachusetts's common school system.
James Monroe | 5th President whose "Era of Good Feelings" produced the Monroe Doctrine opposing European colonization in the Americas.
John Marshall | Long-serving Chief Justice who established judicial review in Marbury v. Madison and strengthened federal power.
Joseph Story | Long-serving Supreme Court justice and legal scholar known for his influential Commentaries on the Constitution.
Richard Mentor Johnson | Van Buren's vice president, reputed to have killed Tecumseh at the Battle of the Thames.
Sacagawea | Shoshone woman who guided and interpreted for the Lewis and Clark Expedition.
temperance | Reform movement against alcohol consumption, later culminating in Prohibition under the 18th Amendment.
Winfield Scott | "Old Fuss and Feathers" general who won the Mexican-American War's Mexico City campaign; later a Whig presidential nominee.
Barbary wars | Early 1800s conflicts with North African states over piracy and tribute, testing the young US Navy.
Battle of San Jacinto | 1836 battle where Sam Houston's Texans defeated and captured Santa Anna, securing independence.
Black Hawk War | 1832 conflict in Illinois/Wisconsin between US forces and Sauk leader Black Hawk's band.
John C. Fremont | Explorer ("Pathfinder") of the West and the first Republican presidential nominee in 1856.
Joseph Smith | Founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, murdered by a mob in Illinois in 1844.
Liberia | West African nation founded by the American Colonization Society as a homeland for freed Black Americans.
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee | 1816 Supreme Court case affirming its authority over state court rulings on federal law.
Nicholas Biddle | President of the Second Bank of the United States, whose recharter fight with Jackson triggered the Bank War.
Noah Webster | Lexicographer whose American Dictionary and spelling books standardized American English.
Oberlin College | Ohio college, first to admit women and Black students, a hotbed of abolitionism.
Samuel Morse | Inventor of the telegraph and Morse code; first message sent in 1844.
Samuel Slater | "Father of the American Industrial Revolution" who built the first US textile mill from memorized British designs.
Shawnee | Ohio Valley nation led by Tecumseh in resisting American expansion.
Shoshone | Great Basin/Rocky Mountain nation whose member Sacagawea guided Lewis and Clark.
Specie Circular | Jackson's 1836 order requiring gold/silver payment for public land, worsening the Panic of 1837.
steamboats | River transport technology, pioneered by Robert Fulton, that spurred western commerce and the Gibbons v. Ogden case.
Stephen Decatur | Naval hero of the Barbary Wars and War of 1812, famed for burning the captured frigate Philadelphia.
Zachary Taylor | Mexican-American War general and 12th President who died in office in 1850.
Zebulon Pike | Army explorer of the Louisiana Purchase territory, namesake of Pikes Peak.
Brigham Young | Mormon leader who succeeded Joseph Smith and led the migration to Utah, founding Salt Lake City.
Chase | 
Democratic Party | Political party founded under Andrew Jackson, the nation's oldest continuously operating party.
DeWitt Clinton | New York governor who championed and built the Erie Canal.
Embargo Act of 1807 | Jefferson's trade ban aimed at Britain and France that instead devastated American shipping.
gag rule | 1836-44 House rule automatically tabling antislavery petitions, opposed by John Quincy Adams.
George Bancroft | 19th-century "father of American history," author of a multivolume history of the United States.
Gibbons v. Ogden | 1824 Supreme Court case broadly defining federal power over interstate commerce.
Handsome Lake | Seneca prophet whose early-1800s religious teachings revitalized Iroquois traditions.
Henry Clay Sr. | "Great Compromiser" senator behind the Missouri Compromise, American System, and Compromise of 1850.
James K. Polk | 11th President who annexed Texas and Oregon and won the Mexican-American War, fulfilling manifest destiny.
James Knox Polk | Full name of the 11th President.
John Charles Fremont | Full name of the explorer ("Pathfinder") and first Republican presidential nominee.
Kansas-Nebraska Act | 1854 law organizing two territories under popular sovereignty, igniting "Bleeding Kansas" violence.
manifest destiny | 19th-century belief that the US was destined to expand across the continent, justifying territorial acquisitions.
Meriwether Lewis | Co-leader with William Clark of the expedition exploring the Louisiana Purchase to the Pacific.
Panic of 1819 | First major peacetime financial crisis in US history, triggered by speculative land bubbles and tightened credit.
Peggy Eaton | Wife of Jackson's Secretary of War whose social ostracism sparked the "Petticoat Affair" cabinet scandal.
polygamy | Marriage practice of early Mormon settlers that delayed Utah's statehood until the church renounced it.
Prigg v. Pennsylvania | 1842 Supreme Court case upholding federal fugitive slave law over state personal-liberty laws.
public schools | Common school system championed by reformers like Horace Mann in the antebellum era.
Republic of Texas | Independent nation (1836-1845) formed after the Texas Revolution, before US annexation.
Sierra Leone | West African British colony that, alongside Liberia, became a resettlement destination for freed Black people.
Stephen Douglas | "Little Giant" senator who championed popular sovereignty and debated Lincoln in 1858.
textile industry | Manufacturing sector pioneered by Samuel Slater and centered on New England mill towns like Lowell.
Treaty of New Echota | 1835 treaty, signed by a minority Cherokee faction, that ceded tribal land and led to the Trail of Tears.
whaling | Maritime industry centered on New England ports like New Bedford and Nantucket, hunting whales for oil.
William Henry Harrison | 9th President and War of 1812 general who died just a month into office, the shortest presidential term.
1850 | Year of the Compromise of 1850, addressing slavery's status in territory won from Mexico.
Adams-Onis treaty | 1819 treaty in which Spain ceded Florida to the US and defined the western boundary of the Louisiana Purchase.
Alexis de Tocqueville | French observer whose Democracy in America analyzed American society and politics in the Jacksonian era.
American System | Henry Clay's economic program of tariffs, a national bank, and internal improvements to bind the nation together.
Andrew | 
Aroostook War | Bloodless 1838-39 US-Canada border dispute over Maine's boundary, resolved by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty.
Bancroft | 
banks | Financial institutions at the center of Jackson's Bank War and recurring 19th-century panics.
Barnburners | Antislavery faction of New York Democrats who split from the party over the Wilmot Proviso.
Battle of Lake Erie | 1813 naval victory where Oliver Hazard Perry declared "We have met the enemy and they are ours."
Bear Flag Revolt | 1846 uprising by American settlers declaring California's independence from Mexico.
Bleeding Kansas | Violent 1850s conflict between pro- and anti-slavery settlers in Kansas Territory following the Kansas-Nebraska Act.
Caroline Affair | 1837 diplomatic incident where Canadian loyalists burned an American ship aiding rebels, straining US-British relations.
Charles Grandison Finney | Revivalist preacher central to the Second Great Awakening, known for emotional "new measures" revivals.
Choctaw | Southeastern nation forcibly removed to Indian Territory along the Trail of Tears in the 1830s.
commerce clause | Constitutional provision giving Congress power over interstate trade, defined broadly in Gibbons v. Ogden.
Creek | Southeastern (Muscogee) nation defeated by Andrew Jackson in the Creek War before removal to Indian Territory.
Crimean War | 1850s European conflict that indirectly affected US diplomacy and Civil War-era arms sales.
Donner Party | 1846-47 westward-migrating group trapped by snow in the Sierra Nevada, resorting to cannibalism to survive.
Dorothea Dix | Reformer who campaigned for humane treatment of the mentally ill, leading to asylum reforms.
Elijah Parish Lovejoy | Abolitionist newspaper editor killed by a pro-slavery mob in Illinois in 1837.
Era of Good Feelings | Period of one-party political calm under James Monroe following the War of 1812.
Francis Scott Key | Lawyer who wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner" after witnessing the 1814 bombardment of Fort McHenry.
Gabriel Prosser | Enslaved blacksmith who planned a large 1800 Virginia slave rebellion that was betrayed before it began.
Gadsden Purchase | 1854 US acquisition of southern Arizona/New Mexico land from Mexico for a southern railroad route.
Godey's Lady's Book | Influential 19th-century women's magazine shaping fashion and domestic ideals.
Goliad Massacre | 1836 execution of surrendered Texan rebels by Santa Anna's forces during the Texas Revolution.
Indian Removal | Jacksonian-era policy forcibly relocating Southeastern nations to Indian Territory, exemplified by the Trail of Tears.
John C. Calhoun | South Carolina statesman and VP who championed states' rights, nullification, and slavery's defense.
John Caldwell Calhoun | Full name of the South Carolina statesman who championed nullification and slavery's defense.
Know-Nothing Party | 1850s nativist political party opposing Catholic and immigrant influence in American politics.
La Amistad | Slave ship whose captives' 1839 revolt led to a Supreme Court case, argued by John Quincy Adams, freeing them.
Langdon Cheves | South Carolina "War Hawk" congressman and later president of the Second Bank of the United States.
Lowell | Massachusetts mill town, a pioneering center of factory textile production employing young women.
Lowell, Massachusetts | Pioneering textile mill town employing young women in early industrial factories.
McCulloch v. Maryland | 1819 Supreme Court case upholding the national bank and federal supremacy over states.
mental asylums | Institutions whose reform, championed by Dorothea Dix, sought more humane treatment of the mentally ill.
Mexico City | Capital captured by US forces in 1847, ending the Mexican-American War.
Mirabeau Lamar | Second president of the Republic of Texas, known for aggressive expansionism and Native removal policies.
Nauvoo, Illinois | Mormon settlement built by Joseph Smith, site of his 1844 murder by a mob.
Nullification Crisis | 1832-33 standoff after South Carolina declared federal tariffs void, resolved when Jackson threatened force and Congress compromised.
Oneida Community | Utopian religious commune in New York practicing "complex marriage," founded by John Humphrey Noyes.
Oregon Trail | Overland wagon route from Missouri to the Pacific Northwest used by tens of thousands of settlers.
Republic of Haiti | Nation founded by the 1804 slave revolt whose independence influenced US slavery debates.
Rush-Bagot Treaty | 1817 agreement demilitarizing the Great Lakes between the US and Britain after the War of 1812.
Russian America | Russian colonial territory in present-day Alaska, sold to the US in 1867.
Samuel Houston | Commander who won Texas independence at San Jacinto; first president of the Republic of Texas.
Sequoyah | Cherokee silversmith who created a syllabary enabling his nation's written language.
Smithsonian Institution | National museum and research complex founded 1846 from a British bequest by James Smithson.
Stephen F. Austin | "Father of Texas" who led American colonization of the region under Mexican authority, laying groundwork for the Texas Revolution.
Texas Rangers | Law enforcement/paramilitary force established during the Texas Republic era, active against Native peoples and Mexican forces.
Thomas Hart Benton | Longtime Missouri senator ("Old Bullion") who championed hard currency, westward expansion, and Jacksonian Democracy for thirty years.
Toledo War | 1835-36 bloodless border dispute between Ohio and the Michigan Territory over the Toledo Strip.
Webster-Ashburton Treaty | 1842 agreement settling the Maine-Canada border dispute between the US and Britain.
whaling industry | Maritime industry centered on New England ports like New Bedford and Nantucket, hunting whales for oil.
William Bainbridge | Naval commander during the Barbary Wars and War of 1812, captain of the USS Constitution.
Wilmot Proviso | Failed 1846 proposal to ban slavery in territory won from Mexico, intensifying sectional tensions.

# Civil War and Reconstruction
> Sectional conflict over slavery, the war between North and South, and its unfinished aftermath.
Ulysses S. Grant | Union general who accepted Lee's surrender at Appomattox; 18th President whose Reconstruction-era administration was scandal-plagued.
Abraham Lincoln | 16th President who preserved the Union, issued the Emancipation Proclamation, and was assassinated in 1865.
Frederick Douglass | Escaped slave who became a leading abolitionist orator, publisher, and advisor to Lincoln.
Battle of Gettysburg | Turning-point 1863 battle in Pennsylvania featuring Pickett's Charge; site of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address.
Ku Klux Klan | White-supremacist terrorist organization founded after the Civil War to intimidate freedpeople; resurged nationally in the 1920s.
Battle of Chickamauga | 1863 Confederate victory in Georgia; the war's bloodiest two-day battle in the Western theater.
Beecher | Surname of the reform-minded family including preacher Henry Ward Beecher and novelist Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Charles Sumner | Massachusetts abolitionist senator caned by Preston Brooks in 1856 after his "Crime Against Kansas" speech.
John Brown | Radical abolitionist who led the Pottawatomie Massacre and the 1859 raid on the Harpers Ferry armory.
Sojourner Truth | Formerly enslaved abolitionist and women's rights speaker famed for her "Ain't I a Woman?" address.
Ambrose Burnside | Union general defeated at Fredericksburg; his distinctive facial hair gave rise to the word "sideburns."
American Civil War | 1861-1865 conflict between the Union and the seceded Confederate States over slavery and states' rights.
Reconstruction | Post-Civil War period (1865-1877) of rebuilding the South and extending rights to freedpeople, ended by the Compromise of 1877.
Richmond, Virginia | Capital of the Confederacy, captured by Union forces in April 1865.
William Seward | Lincoln's Secretary of State who arranged the Alaska Purchase ("Seward's Folly"); survived an assassination attempt the night Lincoln was shot.
Andrew Johnson | 17th President who succeeded Lincoln; clashed with Radical Republicans over Reconstruction and was impeached, acquitted by one vote.
James Buchanan | 15th President whose inaction before secession is often blamed for worsening the sectional crisis.
Lee | Surname of Robert E. Lee, commanding general of the Confederate army who surrendered at Appomattox.
Emancipation Proclamation | Lincoln's 1863 executive order declaring enslaved people in Confederate territory free.
First Battle of Bull Run | First major land battle of the Civil War (1861), a surprising Confederate victory near Manassas, Virginia.
Hamilton Fish | Secretary of State under Grant who negotiated the Treaty of Washington settling Civil War-era claims against Britain.
Harriet Tubman | Escaped slave who led dozens to freedom on the Underground Railroad and served as a Union scout and spy.
Henry Ward Beecher | Prominent abolitionist preacher, brother of Harriet Beecher Stowe, later embroiled in a notorious adultery scandal.
Richmond | Capital of the Confederacy, captured by Union forces in April 1865.
Roger Brooke Taney | Chief Justice who wrote the 1857 Dred Scott decision denying Black Americans citizenship.
Battle of Antietam | Bloodiest single day of the Civil War (1862) in Maryland; gave Lincoln the opening to issue the Emancipation Proclamation.
Battle of Shiloh | Bloody 1862 battle in Tennessee where Grant's Union army repelled a surprise Confederate attack.
Battle of the Crater | 1864 Union attempt to breach Confederate lines at Petersburg by tunnel-mine explosion, ending in disaster.
Carl Schurz | German-American reformer, Union general, and senator who championed civil service reform.
Clement Vallandigham | Ohio "Copperhead" Democrat arrested and exiled for antiwar dissent during the Civil War.
Davis | Surname of Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederate States of America.
Fourteenth Amendment | Reconstruction-era amendment granting citizenship and equal protection, later the basis for many civil-rights rulings.
freedmen | Formerly enslaved people whose new legal freedom and citizenship were contested during Reconstruction.
Freedmen's Bureau | Federal agency aiding formerly enslaved people with education, labor contracts, and relief after the Civil War.
Harriet Beecher Stowe | Author of Uncle Tom's Cabin, whose depiction of slavery galvanized Northern abolitionist sentiment.
Jefferson Davis | President of the Confederate States of America throughout the Civil War.
Mary Todd Lincoln | Abraham Lincoln's wife, whose life was marked by the deaths of children and her husband's assassination beside her.
Oliver Otis Howard | Union general who headed the Freedmen's Bureau and founded Howard University.
Robert | 
Robert E. Lee | Confederate general-in-chief who surrendered the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox in 1865.
Siege of Petersburg | Nine-month 1864-65 Union siege of a Virginia rail hub that finally broke Lee's army.
Thaddeus Stevens | Radical Republican congressman who championed harsh Reconstruction terms and Black civil rights, leading Andrew Johnson's impeachment.
Theodore Parker | Transcendentalist minister and abolitionist whose sermons inspired Lincoln's "of the people, by the people" phrasing.
Ulysses Simpson Grant | Full name of the Union general and 18th President.
Battle of Fort Donelson | 1862 Union victory in Tennessee where Grant demanded "unconditional surrender," earning his nickname.
Battle of Franklin | 1864 disastrous Confederate assault in Tennessee that decimated the Army of Tennessee's officer corps.
Battle of Fredericksburg | 1862 lopsided Confederate victory in Virginia where Union troops made futile assaults on entrenched heights.
Cassius Marcellus Clay | Kentucky abolitionist and Lincoln's minister to Russia, known for his fiery antislavery advocacy.
Confederate States of America | Breakaway slaveholding republic of eleven seceded Southern states, led by Jefferson Davis (1861-65).
Copperheads | Northern Democrats who opposed the Civil War and favored a negotiated peace with the Confederacy.
Corwin Amendment | Never-ratified 1861 proposed constitutional amendment that would have protected slavery to avert secession.
CSS Alabama | Confederate commerce raider built in Britain that destroyed Union shipping, prompting the postwar "Alabama Claims" arbitration.
Grand Army of the Republic | Union Civil War veterans' fraternal organization, influential in Gilded Age Republican politics and pensions.
Grimke | Surname of Sarah and Angelina Grimke, South Carolina sisters who became prominent abolitionist and women's rights advocates.
habeas corpus | Legal right to challenge detention, controversially suspended by Lincoln during the Civil War.
Jay Cooke | Financier who marketed Civil War bonds; his firm's 1873 failure triggered a nationwide panic.
Lost Cause of the Confederacy | Post-war ideology romanticizing the Confederacy and downplaying slavery's role in causing the Civil War.
Nathan Bedford Forrest | Confederate cavalry general blamed for the Fort Pillow massacre; later the first Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan.
Roger Taney | Chief Justice who wrote the 1857 Dred Scott decision denying Black Americans citizenship.
Salmon P. Chase | Lincoln's Treasury Secretary and later Chief Justice, who presided over Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial.
scalawags | Derogatory term for white Southerners who supported Reconstruction-era Republican governments.
Simon Cameron | Lincoln's first Secretary of War, removed amid corruption allegations over war contracts.
Vicksburg | Mississippi city whose 1863 siege and surrender gave the Union control of the Mississippi River.
William Lloyd Garrison | Radical abolitionist publisher of The Liberator who demanded immediate emancipation.
William Tecumseh Sherman | Union general famed for his destructive "March to the Sea" through Georgia in 1864.
William Wilberforce | British parliamentarian and abolitionist whose campaign against the slave trade influenced American antislavery movements.
Zouaves | Civil War militia units, both Union and Confederate, wearing flamboyant French-inspired North African uniforms.
1860s | Decade encompassing secession, the Civil War, and the start of Reconstruction.
1870s | Decade of Reconstruction's final years, ending with the Compromise of 1877 and withdrawal of federal troops.
Anaconda Plan | Union strategy devised by Winfield Scott to blockade Southern ports and split the Confederacy along the Mississippi.
Andersonville Prison | Notorious Confederate POW camp in Georgia where thousands of Union prisoners died of disease and starvation.
Battle of Malvern Hill | 1862 battle ending the Seven Days Battles, where massed Union artillery repelled Confederate assaults.
Battle of Perryville | 1862 battle in Kentucky that ended Braxton Bragg's Confederate invasion of the state.
Battle of Spotsylvania Court House | 1864 brutal Overland Campaign battle featuring intense fighting at the "Bloody Angle."
Booth family | Family of actors including John Wilkes Booth, who assassinated Lincoln in 1865.
Braxton Bragg | Confederate general who commanded the Army of Tennessee, notably at Chickamauga and Perryville.
carpetbaggers | Derogatory term for Northerners who moved South during Reconstruction, often to participate in Republican politics.
Clara Barton | Civil War battlefield nurse who founded the American Red Cross in 1881.
Colfax Massacre | 1873 mass killing of Black Louisiana militiamen by white paramilitaries, a landmark Reconstruction-era atrocity.
Combahee | Site of Harriet Tubman's 1863 Combahee River Raid freeing hundreds of enslaved people in South Carolina.
Dixie | Nickname for the American South, popularized as a Confederate anthem during the Civil War.
Dunning school | Early-20th-century historiographical school portraying Reconstruction as a corrupt failure, since discredited.
Fernando Wood | New York City mayor who proposed the city secede and trade with the Confederacy for cotton profits.
Fish | Surname of Hamilton Fish, Grant's Secretary of State.
Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 | Compromise of 1850 provision requiring the return of escaped slaves, intensifying Northern abolitionist backlash.
fugitive slaves | Enslaved people who escaped bondage, often via the Underground Railroad, becoming a central legal and political flashpoint.
George Henry Thomas | Union general nicknamed "the Rock of Chickamauga" for his stand covering a Union retreat.
Gideon Welles | Lincoln's Secretary of the Navy who built the Union blockade fleet.
Harpers Ferry | Virginia site of John Brown's 1859 armory raid intended to spark a slave uprising.
Hiram Rhodes Revels | First Black member of the US Senate, elected from Mississippi during Reconstruction.
Jesse James | Former Confederate guerrilla who became a notorious outlaw and bank/train robber after the war.
John Bell | Constitutional Union Party's 1860 presidential candidate, seeking to avoid the sectional crisis over slavery.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain | Union colonel who defended Little Round Top at Gettysburg, earning the Medal of Honor.
KKK | Abbreviation for the Ku Klux Klan, the white-supremacist terrorist organization founded after the Civil War.
Knights of the Golden Circle | Secret pro-Confederate society active in the North during the Civil War, associated with Copperhead sympathizers.
Mary Boykin Chesnut | Confederate diarist whose detailed wartime journal is a major primary source on Southern elite life.
Philip Sheridan | Union cavalry general known for his Shenandoah Valley campaign and later Indian Wars command.
rape | 
Reconstruction Era | Post-Civil War period (1865-1877) of rebuilding the South and extending rights to freedpeople.
Robert Todd Lincoln | Abraham Lincoln's eldest son, later Secretary of War and a successful railroad executive.
Salmon Portland Chase | Full name of Lincoln's Treasury Secretary and later Chief Justice.
Siege of Vicksburg | 1863 Union siege that gave control of the Mississippi River after the city's surrender.
Slavery | Institution of enslaved labor whose expansion and restriction drove sectional conflict culminating in the Civil War.
slaves | Enslaved people whose labor and status were central to the antebellum South's economy and the war that ended slavery.
the Underground Railroad = Underground Railroad | Secret network of routes and safe houses helping enslaved people escape to freedom, aided by figures like Harriet Tubman.
Trent Affair | 1861 diplomatic crisis after the Union seized Confederate envoys from a British ship, nearly drawing Britain into the war.
Vicksburg campaign | 1863 Union operation under Grant that captured the Mississippi River stronghold, splitting the Confederacy.
William Henry Seward | Lincoln's Secretary of State who arranged the Alaska Purchase; survived an assassination attempt the night Lincoln was shot.
William Worth Belknap | Grant's Secretary of War impeached for accepting bribes in a trading-post scandal.

# The Gilded Age and the West
> Industrialization, immigration, labor conflict, and the conquest of the trans-Mississippi West.
Horace Greeley | New York Tribune editor famed for "Go West, young man"; 1872 Liberal Republican challenger to Grant.
German-Americans | Large 19th-century immigrant group who settled the Midwest as farmers and brewers; faced suspicion during World War I.
Cuba | Spanish colony whose 1898 liberation led to the Platt Amendment; later scene of the Bay of Pigs and Missile Crisis under Castro.
William Jennings Bryan | "Great Commoner" who gave the "Cross of Gold" speech and ran for president three times on free silver and populism; later prosecuted the Scopes trial.
Chinese-Americans | Immigrant laborers who built the transcontinental railroad; faced exclusion under the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act.
sugar | Plantation cash crop grown by enslaved and immigrant labor in Louisiana, Cuba, and Hawaii; central to sugar-trust and tariff politics.
Tammany Hall | Corrupt Democratic political machine dominating New York City politics, associated with boss William "Boss" Tweed.
William McKinley | 25th President who led the US through the Spanish-American War and annexation of the Philippines; assassinated in 1901.
Benjamin Harrison | 23rd President (1889-93), grandson of William Henry Harrison; presided over the Sherman Antitrust Act and rapid Western state admissions.
Cheyenne | Plains nation involved in the Sand Creek Massacre and the Battle of the Little Bighorn.
Irish-Americans | Immigrant group who fled the Famine to fill Northeastern cities and factories; came to dominate urban machines like Tammany Hall.
silver | Mining-boom metal (Comstock Lode) fueling Western settlement; center of the 1890s "free silver" monetary debate.
Comanche | Dominant Southern Plains horse nation that resisted white settlement in Texas until surrendering at Fort Sill in 1875.
James G. Blaine | "Continental Liar from the State of Maine"; Republican Secretary of State and 1884 presidential nominee defeated by Cleveland.
Lochner v. New York | 1905 Supreme Court case striking down a maximum-hours law, epitomizing the era's "liberty of contract" jurisprudence.
Spanish-American War | 1898 war sparked partly by the sinking of the USS Maine; won the US Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines.
William Randolph Hearst | Newspaper magnate whose "yellow journalism" helped push the US toward the Spanish-American War.
Cornelius Vanderbilt | Railroad and shipping magnate ("Commodore") who built one of the era's great industrial fortunes.
George Armstrong Custer | Cavalry officer annihilated with his command by Lakota and Cheyenne forces at the Little Bighorn (1876).
Henry Ford | Automaker who pioneered the moving assembly line and $5 workday, making cars affordable to the masses.
Plessy v. Ferguson | 1896 Supreme Court decision upholding "separate but equal" racial segregation.
railroads | Transcontinental and trunk lines whose construction and monopolistic practices drove industrialization and Populist backlash.
The Philippines | Pacific archipelago ceded by Spain in 1898; scene of a bloody US insurrection before eventual independence in 1946.
Victoria Woodhull | First woman to run for US president (1872); suffragist and stockbroker who championed free love.
Apache | Southwestern nation whose resistance, led by figures like Geronimo and Cochise, continued into the 1880s.
farmers | Agrarian class whose debt and rate grievances fueled the Grange and Populist movements of the late 1800s.
Filipino-Americans | Immigrant group arriving after US annexation of the Philippines, working largely in West Coast agriculture.
Ford Motor Company | Automaker founded by Henry Ford, pioneer of the moving assembly line and $5 workday.
Geronimo | Apache leader who led the last major Native resistance campaign before surrendering in 1886.
gold | Precious metal whose 1848 California discovery and later Western strikes drove mining rushes and monetary politics.
Grover Cleveland | Only president to serve two non-consecutive terms (22nd and 24th); vetoed pensions and battled the Panic of 1893.
Homestead strike | Violent 1892 clash between Carnegie Steel workers and Pinkerton guards at Andrew Carnegie's Pennsylvania plant.
James Gillespie Blaine | Full name of the Republican "Continental Liar from the State of Maine," the 1884 presidential nominee.
John Pierpont Morgan | Banker who consolidated industries like steel (US Steel) and personally stabilized markets during the Panic of 1907.
Mother Jones | Fiery labor organizer who campaigned against child labor and for coal miners' unions.
Nellie Bly | Investigative journalist famed for feigning insanity to expose asylum abuses and for circling the globe in under 80 days.
newspapers | Mass-circulation press whose "yellow journalism," led by Pulitzer and Hearst, shaped public opinion toward war with Spain.
Populist Party | Agrarian third party of the 1890s advocating free silver and railroad regulation, epitomized by William Jennings Bryan.
Roscoe Conkling | New York "Stalwart" Republican senator and patronage boss who clashed with President Garfield.
Sand Creek Massacre | 1864 attack by Colorado militia that slaughtered a peaceful Cheyenne and Arapaho encampment.
steel | Industry dominated by Andrew Carnegie's mills and later US Steel, symbolizing industrial-era capitalism.
telegraphy | Communication technology pioneered by Samuel Morse that transformed news, business, and rail coordination.
Wounded Knee | Site of the 1890 massacre of Lakota Ghost Dancers by US troops, and later a 1973 AIM occupation.
Wounded Knee Massacre | 1890 killing of Lakota Ghost Dance followers by the US Army in South Dakota, ending the Indian Wars.
Anthony Comstock | Anti-vice crusader whose namesake laws banned mailing obscene material and birth-control information.
Battle of the Little Bighorn | 1876 battle where Custer's cavalry was annihilated by Lakota and Cheyenne forces.
Booker T. Washington | Educator who founded Tuskegee Institute and urged Black economic self-help via his "Atlanta Compromise" address.
copper | Mining commodity driving boomtowns like Butte, Montana, amid the era's Western mineral rushes.
copper mining | Industry centered on Western towns like Butte, Montana, fueling late-19th-century mineral booms.
Denis Kearney | California labor agitator whose anti-Chinese rhetoric helped drive passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act.
Ellis Island | New York harbor immigration station processing millions of arrivals from the 1890s onward.
Haiti | Caribbean nation whose 1804 slave-revolt independence influenced US slavery debates; later occupied by US Marines (1915-34).
ice | Commodity harvested and shipped commercially before refrigeration, an important 19th-century industry.
Ida B. Wells | Journalist and activist who led anti-lynching crusades and co-founded the NAACP.
Italian-Americans | Immigrant group arriving in large numbers after 1880, settling Northeastern cities and facing discrimination like the 1891 New Orleans lynchings.
John Hay | Lincoln's secretary turned Secretary of State who authored the Open Door Policy toward China.
Johnstown Flood | 1889 Pennsylvania dam-failure disaster that killed over 2,000 people.
Navajo | Southwestern nation whose "Long Walk" removal in the 1860s and later Code Talkers in WWII mark its history.
Osage | Plains nation whose 1920s Oklahoma oil wealth led to the murders investigated in "Killers of the Flower Moon."
roads | Infrastructure whose "Good Roads Movement" and later the interstate system tied the nation together.
Rock Springs massacre | 1885 killing of Chinese miners by white workers in Wyoming Territory amid anti-Chinese labor tensions.
rubber | Industrial commodity whose vulcanization and later Akron-centered manufacture (Goodyear, Firestone) fueled the auto age.
Secretary of the Interior | Cabinet post overseeing federal lands, Native affairs, and natural resources.
Sitting Bull | Lakota holy man and leader during the Battle of the Little Bighorn and the later Ghost Dance movement.
Stalwarts | Republican faction under Roscoe Conkling defending patronage politics against civil-service reform.
Standard Oil | Rockefeller's oil monopoly, broken up by the Supreme Court in 1911 under antitrust law.
sugarcane | Plantation crop underlying Louisiana's and, after annexation, Hawaii's and Cuba's economies.
Susan B. Anthony | Women's suffrage leader who co-founded the National Woman Suffrage Association with Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
The New York Times | Major newspaper of record that later published the Pentagon Papers in 1971.
Thomas Edison | Prolific inventor of the phonograph and practical incandescent light bulb, founder of a research lab in Menlo Park.
tuberculosis | Widespread disease ("consumption") whose sanatorium treatment shaped public-health policy into the 20th century.
William Mulholland | Engineer who built the Los Angeles Aqueduct, enabling the city's growth amid California water disputes.
William Walker | American "filibuster" who briefly seized control of Nicaragua in the 1850s.
Alexander Graham Bell | Inventor credited with patenting the first practical telephone in 1876.
Andrew Carnegie | Steel magnate who built US Steel and became a major philanthropist funding libraries.
Baltimore and Ohio railroad | Early major American railroad whose 1877 wage cuts sparked the nationwide Great Railroad Strike.
Battle of Little Bighorn | 1876 battle where Custer's cavalry was annihilated by Lakota and Cheyenne forces.
bicycles | Late-19th-century transportation craze that promoted women's mobility and dress reform.
Booker Taliaferro Washington | Full name of the educator who founded Tuskegee Institute and urged Black economic self-help.
Boss Tweed | Corrupt leader of New York's Tammany Hall machine, exposed by cartoonist Thomas Nast.
Bourbon democrats | Pro-business, small-government faction of the post-Reconstruction Democratic Party.
Butte, Montana | Montana mining city whose massive copper deposits fueled Gilded Age industrial fortunes.
cattle | Ranching industry driving Texas cattle drives along trails like the Chisholm Trail to railheads.
Charles Guiteau | Disappointed office-seeker who assassinated President Garfield in 1881, spurring civil-service reform.
Chinatowns | Ethnic enclaves formed by Chinese immigrants in Western cities amid exclusion-era discrimination.
Chinese Exclusion Act | 1882 law banning Chinese immigration, the first major US law restricting immigration by nationality.
cigars | Manufactured good produced heavily by Cuban and immigrant labor in cities like Tampa and Key West.
Coca-Cola | Atlanta-invented soft drink (1886) that became a symbol of American consumer capitalism.
Cochise | Chiricahua Apache leader who resisted US expansion into Arizona before making peace in 1872.
Coxey's Army | 1894 march of unemployed workers on Washington led by Jacob Coxey demanding public-works relief.
Fort Laramie | Wyoming trading post and treaty site central to US-Plains Indian relations.
Harrison | 
Henry Clay Frick | Carnegie's steel partner whose harsh handling of the Homestead strike made him a target of an assassination attempt.
James Abram Garfield | Full name of the 20th President, assassinated by Charles Guiteau in 1881.
John Milton Hay | Full name of Lincoln's secretary turned Secretary of State who authored the Open Door Policy.
John Sherman | Ohio senator and Treasury Secretary, namesake of the Sherman Antitrust Act.
Joseph Pulitzer | Newspaper publisher whose "yellow journalism" rivalry with Hearst helped push the US toward war with Spain.
lynching | Extralegal mob killings, mostly of Black Southerners, prevalent from the 1880s through the mid-20th century.
music industry | Recorded-music business born from Edison's phonograph and Tin Pan Alley song publishing in the late 19th century.
Nelson Aldrich | Powerful Rhode Island senator and financial reformer whose plan shaped the Federal Reserve System.
oil | Petroleum industry built by Rockefeller's Standard Oil into one of the era's dominant monopolies.
oil industry | Petroleum sector centered on Rockefeller's Standard Oil monopoly, later broken up by antitrust action.
Panic of 1873 | Financial crisis triggered by railroad overexpansion and Jay Cooke's bank failure, causing a long depression.
Pinkerton National Detective Agency | Private security firm hired by industrialists to break strikes, notably at Homestead in 1892.
Pony Express | Short-lived 1860-61 horseback mail relay service across the West, quickly made obsolete by the telegraph.
railroad industry | Transcontinental and trunk-line network whose construction and monopolistic rates drove industrialization and Populist backlash.
Rough Riders | Volunteer cavalry regiment led by Theodore Roosevelt that fought in the Spanish-American War.
Samuel Jones Tilden | Democratic presidential candidate who won the popular vote in 1876 but lost the disputed election to Hayes.
sewing machines | Mass-manufactured household technology, pioneered by Isaac Singer, that transformed clothing production.
Standard Oil Company | Rockefeller's oil monopoly, broken up by the Supreme Court in 1911 under antitrust law.
Thomas Nast | Political cartoonist whose drawings exposed Boss Tweed and popularized the modern images of Uncle Sam and Santa Claus.
Tuskegee University | Historically Black college founded by Booker T. Washington in Alabama in 1881.
Walker | 
Wilmington, North Carolina | Site of the 1898 coup and massacre overthrowing a biracial city government, entrenching Jim Crow rule.
Women's Christian Temperance Union | Women's reform organization founded 1874 advocating alcohol prohibition and other moral reforms.
"Acres of Diamonds" | Popular motivational lecture by Russell Conwell preaching that opportunity and wealth lay close to home.
American football | Sport that developed from rugby in late-19th-century college contests, notably at Ivy League schools.
Angel Island | San Francisco Bay immigration station, the "Ellis Island of the West," that processed mostly Asian immigrants under exclusionary scrutiny.
antitrust law | Legal framework, beginning with the 1890 Sherman Act, aimed at breaking up monopolies like Standard Oil.
Astor family | Wealthy dynasty founded by fur trader John Jacob Astor, later prominent in New York real estate and society.
barbed wire | Fencing invention that ended the open range and transformed Western ranching and land disputes.
baseball | National pastime professionalized in the late 1800s, later integrated by Jackie Robinson in 1947.
Bayonet Constitution | 1887 document forced on Hawaii's King Kalakaua at gunpoint, stripping the monarchy of power in favor of American and European businessmen.
bison | Plains animal nearly hunted to extinction in the 19th century, undermining Native American subsistence.
Black Hills | South Dakota mountains sacred to the Lakota, whose 1874 gold discovery triggered treaty violations and war.
Brooklyn Bridge | Landmark suspension bridge completed 1883 connecting Manhattan and Brooklyn, engineered by the Roebling family.
Charles Dana Gibson | Illustrator whose "Gibson Girl" defined a popular ideal of American femininity around 1900.
Charles Julius Guiteau | Full name of the disappointed office-seeker who assassinated President Garfield in 1881.
Chautauqua Institution | Adult education and cultural movement offering traveling lectures and entertainment to rural communities.
Chester Alan Arthur | 21st President who succeeded the assassinated Garfield and surprised critics by championing civil service reform.
Chief Seattle | Suquamish and Duwamish leader for whom the city of Seattle is named, known for a speech on Native land loss.
Chisholm Trail | Major post-Civil War cattle-driving route from Texas to Kansas railheads.
coal miners | Industrial workforce whose organizing and strikes, as at Homestead and Ludlow, shaped labor conflict.
cocaine | Substance once a common ingredient in patent medicines before regulation under the Pure Food and Drug Act.
contracts | Legal concept central to "liberty of contract" jurisprudence that struck down labor regulations like in Lochner.
Crazy Horse | Lakota war leader who helped defeat Custer at the Little Bighorn.
Department of the Interior | Cabinet agency overseeing federal lands, national parks, and Native American affairs.
department stores | Retail innovation such as Macy's and Wanamaker's, transforming urban shopping in the late 19th century.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton | Women's rights leader who organized the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention and co-founded the National Woman Suffrage Association.
fires | 
flour | Milled grain commodity whose production, centered in Minneapolis mills, powered a major industrial sector.
Frederick Funston | Army officer who captured Filipino insurgent leader Aguinaldo, ending a key phase of the Philippine-American War.
free silver | Monetary policy movement advocating unlimited silver coinage, championed by William Jennings Bryan.
George Crook | Army general who campaigned against the Apache and Sioux during the Indian Wars.
George Custer | Cavalry officer annihilated with his command at the Battle of the Little Bighorn (1876).
Ghost Dance movement | Late-19th-century Native religious revival prophesying restoration, ended violently at Wounded Knee.
gold rushes | Mineral strikes, from California to the Klondike, that drove waves of Western migration and boomtowns.
gold standard | Monetary system pegging currency to gold, defended by conservatives against the free-silver movement.
Guam | Pacific island ceded by Spain after the 1898 Spanish-American War, becoming a US territory.
Haymarket Square riot | 1886 Chicago labor rally bombing that led to the execution of anarchist organizers and a backlash against labor radicalism.
Helen Hunt Jackson | Author of A Century of Dishonor and Ramona, novels exposing the mistreatment of Native Americans.
Ireland | Source of a major wave of 19th-century immigration, especially following the Great Famine.
James Garfield | 20th President, assassinated by disappointed office-seeker Charles Guiteau in 1881.
Jews | Immigrant religious group arriving in large numbers from Eastern Europe, settling urban centers and facing discrimination.
Jim Crow laws | State and local statutes enforcing racial segregation across the South from the 1880s through the 1960s.
John Muir | Naturalist and conservationist who co-founded the Sierra Club and championed national parks like Yosemite.
John Wesley Powell | Explorer who led the first expedition through the Grand Canyon and later directed the US Geological Survey.
Klondike Gold Rush | 1896-99 stampede of prospectors to the Canadian Yukon, launching Seattle as a supply hub.
leprosy | Disease whose sufferers, especially in Hawaii, were forcibly isolated at colonies like Molokai.
Mark Twain | Author (Samuel Clemens) whose satirical writing gave the Gilded Age its name.
McCormick family | Chicago dynasty founded on Cyrus McCormick's reaper invention and later the Chicago Tribune.
Mugwumps | Reform-minded Republicans who bolted the party in 1884 to support Cleveland over corruption concerns.
Native American reservations | Federally designated lands where Native nations were confined following removal and the Indian Wars.
Navajo Nation | Southwestern nation whose "Long Walk" removal in the 1860s and later Code Talkers in WWII mark its history.
Nez Perce | Pacific Northwest nation whose 1877 flight toward Canada under Chief Joseph ended in surrender just short of the border.
Noble and Holy Order of the Knights of Labor | Broad-based 1880s labor union that declined after being blamed for the Haymarket bombing.
Panic of 1893 | Severe economic depression triggered by railroad overexpansion and bank failures, fueling Populist politics.
Panic of 1907 | Financial crisis averted partly by J.P. Morgan's personal intervention, spurring creation of the Federal Reserve.
Passenger Pigeon | Once-abundant bird driven to extinction by overhunting and habitat loss by the early 20th century.
patents | Intellectual-property grants that protected inventions like Edison's and Bell's, fueling the era's industrial innovation.
Polish-Americans | Immigrant group arriving in large numbers from the 1880s, settling industrial cities like Chicago and Detroit.
prostitution | Vice targeted by Progressive-era reformers concerned with urban "white slavery" and moral reform.
Pullman Strike | 1894 nationwide rail strike led by Eugene Debs, crushed by federal troops under Cleveland.
Republic of the Philippines | Pacific archipelago ceded by Spain in 1898; scene of a bloody US insurrection before independence in 1946.
Rockefeller | Surname of John D. Rockefeller, founder of the Standard Oil monopoly.
Rutherford B. Hayes | 19th President whose disputed 1876 election was resolved by the Compromise of 1877, ending Reconstruction.
Rutherford Birchard Hayes | Full name of the 19th President.
Sherman Antitrust Act | 1890 law banning monopolistic business combinations, the first major federal antitrust legislation.
sinking of the USS Maine | 1898 explosion of a US battleship in Havana harbor that helped spark the Spanish-American War.
Sioux | Plains nation (Lakota/Dakota/Nakota) central to conflicts including the Little Bighorn and Wounded Knee.
Transatlantic telegraph cable | 1866 undersea cable enabling near-instant communication between North America and Europe.
Transcontinental Railroads | Rail lines, completed with the 1869 golden spike, linking the East and West coasts and spurring industrial growth.
Treaty of Fort Laramie | 1868 agreement recognizing Lakota control of the Black Hills, later violated after gold was discovered there.
trees | 
Tuskegee Institute | Historically Black college founded by Booker T. Washington in Alabama in 1881.
United States Presidential Election of 1876 | Disputed election between Hayes and Tilden resolved by the Compromise of 1877, ending Reconstruction.
water | 
World's Columbian Exposition | 1893 Chicago world's fair showcasing American industrial and cultural achievement, featuring the first Ferris wheel.
yellow fever | Mosquito-borne disease whose repeated outbreaks, notably in the South, shaped public health efforts and Panama Canal construction.

# The Progressive Era and World War I
> Reform movements, trust-busting, women's suffrage, and America's entry into the First World War.
Woodrow Wilson | 28th President who led the US through World War I with his Fourteen Points and pushed for the League of Nations.
NAACP | Civil rights organization founded 1909 that fought segregation through litigation, including Brown v. Board.
Theodore Roosevelt | 26th President; trust-busting Progressive reformer who led the Rough Riders and built the Panama Canal.
William Howard Taft | 27th President and later Chief Justice; his split from Theodore Roosevelt's progressivism prompted the 1912 Bull Moose campaign.
China | Target of the US Open Door Policy (1899); later a WWII ally and, under Nixon, a Cold War diplomatic opening.
Industrial Workers of the World | Radical labor union ("Wobblies") advocating "one big union" and direct action, founded 1905.
IWW | Abbreviation for the Industrial Workers of the World, the radical "Wobblies" labor union.
Louis Brandeis | First Jewish Supreme Court justice; pioneered the "Brandeis brief" and championed a constitutional "right to privacy."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. | Long-serving Supreme Court justice known for free-speech opinions like Schenck v. United States ("clear and present danger").
World War I | 1914-18 global war the US entered in 1917 under Wilson, ending with the Treaty of Versailles.
Asa Philip Randolph | Labor leader who founded the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters and pressured FDR to desegregate defense industries.
Buck v. Bell | 1927 Supreme Court decision upholding forced sterilization, infamous for Holmes's line "three generations of imbeciles are enough."
Emma Goldman | Anarchist writer and activist deported during the Red Scare for her radical politics.
Progressive Party | "Bull Moose" party formed by Theodore Roosevelt in 1912 to challenge Taft on reform issues.
Upton Sinclair | Muckraking author of The Jungle, whose expose of meatpacking spurred the Pure Food and Drug Act.
Charles Evans Hughes | Republican Chief Justice and 1916 presidential nominee who narrowly lost to Wilson.
child labor | Reform target of Progressive-era activists, leading to laws restricting factory work by minors.
Clarence Darrow | Defense attorney famed for the Scopes trial and the Leopold and Loeb case.
eugenics | Pseudo-scientific movement advocating selective breeding, leading to forced-sterilization laws upheld in Buck v. Bell.
Ludlow Massacre | 1914 killing of striking coal miners' families by Colorado militia during a labor dispute.
Luigi Galleani | Italian anarchist whose followers were blamed for a wave of early-20th-century bombings, including the Wall Street bombing.
Margaret Sanger | Birth-control activist who founded the organization that became Planned Parenthood.
meatpacking industry | Chicago-centered industry whose unsanitary conditions, exposed in Sinclair's The Jungle, spurred food-safety regulation.
W. E. B. Du Bois | Scholar-activist and NAACP co-founder who championed the "Talented Tenth" and challenged Booker T. Washington's accommodationism.
women's suffrage | Movement culminating in the 1920 Nineteenth Amendment granting women the vote.
19th Amendment | 1920 constitutional amendment granting women the right to vote.
A. Philip Randolph | Labor leader who founded the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters and pressed FDR to desegregate defense industries.
Conscription | Military draft policy implemented in WWI and WWII, later a flashpoint of Vietnam-era protest.
Elihu Root | Secretary of War and State under Roosevelt/Taft who reorganized the Army and won the Nobel Peace Prize.
Gifford Pinchot | First US Forest Service chief and close ally of Theodore Roosevelt's conservation policy.
Henry Cabot Lodge, Sr. | Massachusetts senator who led opposition blocking US entry into the League of Nations.
Hiram Johnson | Progressive California governor and Bull Moose VP nominee; later an isolationist senator.
International Workers of the World | Alternate name for the IWW, the radical "Wobblies" labor union.
Jane Addams | Social reformer who founded Hull House in Chicago, pioneering the settlement house movement.
John Reed | American journalist who chronicled the Russian Revolution in Ten Days That Shook the World.
Marcus Garvey | Jamaican-born Black nationalist who founded the UNIA and promoted Pan-Africanism and Black economic self-reliance.
Philander Chase Knox | Attorney General and Secretary of State known for "Dollar Diplomacy" under Taft.
Pure Food and Drug Act | 1906 law regulating food and drug labeling, passed after Upton Sinclair's expose of the meatpacking industry.
Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 | Law regulating food and drug labeling and safety, spurred by The Jungle's meatpacking revelations.
Schenck v. United States | 1919 Supreme Court case upholding WWI-era speech restrictions under the "clear and present danger" test.
The Crisis | NAACP magazine founded and edited by W.E.B. Du Bois to advocate for Black civil rights.
Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt | 26th President; trust-busting Progressive reformer who led the Rough Riders and built the Panama Canal.
Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire | 1911 New York factory fire killing 146 workers, spurring major workplace safety reforms.
1919 | Year of the Paris Peace Conference, the first Red Scare, and major race riots and strikes at home.
Alexander Mitchell Palmer | Attorney General who directed the post-WWI "Palmer Raids" rounding up suspected radicals during the Red Scare.
Carter Glass | Virginia senator and co-author of the Federal Reserve Act and later Glass-Steagall Act.
Dollar diplomacy | Taft-era foreign policy using American financial investment to extend influence in Latin America and Asia.
Edith Wilson | Woodrow Wilson's second wife who effectively managed presidential affairs after his 1919 stroke.
Eugene Victor Debs | Socialist Party leader and five-time presidential candidate, imprisoned for opposing WWI conscription.
eugenics movement | Pseudo-scientific reform movement advocating selective breeding, leading to forced-sterilization laws.
Federal Reserve Act | 1913 law creating the Federal Reserve System as the nation's central bank under Wilson.
Federal Reserve System | Central banking system created by the 1913 Federal Reserve Act to stabilize currency and credit.
garment industry | Textile and clothing manufacturing sector, notorious for sweatshop conditions exposed by the Triangle fire.
Hammer v. Dagenhart | 1918 Supreme Court case striking down a federal child-labor law as exceeding commerce power.
Harlem | Manhattan neighborhood whose 1920s cultural flowering of Black literature, art, and music became the Harlem Renaissance.
Leo Max Frank | Jewish factory manager wrongly convicted of murder in Georgia and lynched in 1915, fueling antisemitism and the Klan's revival.
Louis Dembitz Brandeis | Full name of the first Jewish Supreme Court justice, known for the "Brandeis brief" and privacy rights.
McClure's Magazine | Muckraking periodical that published exposes by Ida Tarbell and Lincoln Steffens.
muckrakers | Investigative journalists like Sinclair, Tarbell, and Steffens who exposed corruption and abuses to spur reform.
Palmer Raids | Post-WWI roundups of suspected radicals and immigrants directed by Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer during the Red Scare.
sewer socialism | Pragmatic municipal socialism focused on public utilities, practiced in cities like Milwaukee.
Socialist Party of America | Political party led by Eugene Debs advocating labor rights and public ownership in the early 20th century.
The Birth of a Nation | 1915 D.W. Griffith film glorifying the Ku Klux Klan, whose popularity helped spur the Klan's 1920s revival.
Treaty of Versailles | 1919 peace agreement ending World War I, rejected by the US Senate over League of Nations membership.
United Mine Workers of America | Coal miners' union led for decades by John L. Lewis, central to major 20th-century labor disputes.
Universal suffrage | Principle achieved for women with the 1920 Nineteenth Amendment, extending the vote regardless of sex.
Wall Street bombing | 1920 anarchist bombing on Wall Street that killed dozens, blamed on followers of Luigi Galleani.
William Dudley "Big Bill" Haywood | Radical labor leader who co-founded the IWW ("Wobblies") and later fled to Soviet Russia.

# The Depression, New Deal, and World War II
> The Roaring Twenties, the Great Depression, Roosevelt's New Deal, and the Second World War.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt | 32nd President; New Deal response to the Depression; led the nation through most of World War II; elected four times.
New Deal | FDR's relief, recovery, and reform programs (WPA, CCC, Social Security) responding to the Great Depression.
Charles Lindbergh | Aviator who made the first solo transatlantic flight (1927); later led the isolationist America First Committee.
Herbert Hoover | 31st President whose limited response to the onset of the Great Depression cost him reelection to FDR.
Huey Long | Populist Louisiana governor/senator who championed "Share Our Wealth" before his 1935 assassination.
Warren Gamaliel Harding | Full name of the 29th President, whose administration was marked by the Teapot Dome scandal.
Tennessee Valley Authority | New Deal agency building dams and providing electricity across the impoverished Tennessee Valley.
World War II | 1939-45 global war the US entered after Pearl Harbor, fighting the Axis in Europe and the Pacific.
Calvin Coolidge | 30th President ("Silent Cal") whose laissez-faire 1920s administration preceded the Great Depression.
General Motors | Auto giant whose Flint plant was the site of the pivotal 1936-37 sit-down strike.
prohibition | Nationwide ban on alcohol (1920-1933) under the 18th Amendment and Volstead Act, which fueled organized crime.
Scottsboro Boys | Nine Black Alabama teenagers wrongly convicted of rape in 1931, a landmark case in civil rights and legal history.
Bracero program | WWII-era guest-worker program bringing Mexican laborers to fill US agricultural labor shortages, continuing into the 1960s.
Eleanor Roosevelt | Activist First Lady who championed civil rights and later chaired the UN commission drafting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Japanese-Americans | Community forcibly relocated to internment camps under Executive Order 9066 during World War II.
Manhattan Project | Secret WWII program that developed the atomic bomb, led by Oppenheimer at Los Alamos.
Teapot Dome scandal | Bribery scandal over leased naval oil reserves that disgraced the Harding administration.
Zoot Suit riots | 1943 Los Angeles clashes between white servicemen and Mexican-American youths.
"Strange Fruit" | Billie Holiday song protesting lynching, based on a poem about Southern hangings.
1930s | 
Aimee Semple McPherson | Charismatic Pentecostal evangelist and radio pioneer who built the Angelus Temple in Los Angeles.
Bernard Baruch | Financier who chaired the War Industries Board and later advised on economic mobilization.
Civilian Conservation Corps | New Deal program employing young men in conservation and infrastructure work.
Fiorello LaGuardia | Reformist New York City mayor during the Depression, known for cleaning up city government.
Frances Perkins | FDR's Secretary of Labor, first woman cabinet member, and architect of Social Security.
Jehovah's Witnesses | Religious group whose flag-salute refusals produced key free-exercise Supreme Court cases.
Reed Smoot | Utah senator, co-author of the protectionist 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariff.
Rosie the Riveter | WWII propaganda icon symbolizing women who took factory jobs during the war.
victory gardens | Home vegetable plots encouraged during World War II to supplement rationed food supplies.
Warren G. Harding | 29th President whose "return to normalcy" administration was marred by the Teapot Dome scandal.
Wendell Willkie | Republican businessman who lost the 1940 presidential election to FDR's third term.
Works Progress Administration | New Deal agency employing millions on public works and arts projects.
Al Smith | New York governor and first Catholic major-party presidential nominee, defeated by Hoover in 1928.
Andrew Mellon | Wealthy Treasury Secretary under three 1920s presidents who championed tax cuts for the wealthy.
Battle of Blair Mountain | 1921 armed uprising of West Virginia coal miners against mine owners, the largest labor uprising in US history.
Battle of Midway | 1942 decisive US naval victory over Japan that turned the tide of the Pacific War.
Douglas MacArthur | General who led the Pacific War, commanded Korean War forces, and was dismissed by Truman for insubordination.
Dust Bowl | 1930s drought and dust storms that devastated Great Plains farms, driving mass migration west.
FCC | Federal Communications Commission, created 1934 to regulate radio and later television and telephone.
fireside chats | FDR's radio addresses reassuring the public during the Depression and World War II.
Henry Agard Wallace | FDR's Agriculture Secretary and Vice President, later a 1948 Progressive Party presidential candidate.
Herbert Clark Hoover | Full name of the 31st President, whose limited response to the Depression's onset cost him reelection.
Hoovervilles | Shantytowns of homeless people during the Great Depression, named derisively for Herbert Hoover.
Hugo Black | FDR-appointed Supreme Court justice and former Klan member who became a civil-liberties champion.
IBM | Computing and business-machine corporation that grew through government contracts from the New Deal era onward.
Japanese American internment | Forced WWII relocation of Japanese-Americans to camps under Executive Order 9066.
Long | Likely refers to Huey Long, the populist Louisiana governor and senator of the 1930s "Share Our Wealth" movement.
Mary McLeod Bethune | Educator and civil rights leader who advised FDR and led his informal "Black Cabinet."
Meyer Lansky | Organized-crime financier who helped build national gambling syndicates during Prohibition and after.
Pearl Harbor | Hawaiian naval base attacked by Japan in December 1941, drawing the US into World War II.
Robert Alphonso Taft | "Mr. Republican," conservative Ohio senator and son of President Taft, co-author of the Taft-Hartley Act.
Tulsa | Oklahoma city, site of the 1921 race massacre destroying the prosperous Black "Greenwood" district.
Tulsa, Oklahoma | Site of the 1921 race massacre that destroyed the prosperous Black "Greenwood" district.
Volstead Act | 1919 law enforcing Prohibition under the Eighteenth Amendment.
1924 | Year of a restrictive immigration quota law and Coolidge's election in his own right.
Al Capone | Chicago Prohibition-era gangster ultimately convicted of tax evasion in 1931.
America First Committee | Isolationist organization, fronted by Charles Lindbergh, opposing US entry into World War II.
attack on Pearl Harbor | Japan's December 1941 surprise strike on the Hawaiian naval base that brought the US into World War II.
Australia | WWII Pacific-theater ally allied with the US against Japan.
aviation industry | Aircraft manufacturing sector that boomed during World War II production and the postwar jet age.
braceros | Mexican guest workers admitted under a WWII-era program to fill US agricultural labor shortages.
Charles Ponzi | Swindler whose 1920s investment fraud scheme gave its name to the "Ponzi scheme."
Cordell Hull | FDR's long-serving Secretary of State, later awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for postwar planning.
D-Day | June 1944 Allied invasion of Normandy that opened the Western Front against Nazi Germany.
Eliot Ness | Prohibition-era federal agent ("The Untouchables") who helped bring down Al Capone.
Father Charles Edward Coughlin | Radio priest whose popular broadcasts turned increasingly antisemitic and critical of FDR in the 1930s.
film industry | Hollywood studio system that flourished as an escapist entertainment source during the Depression and war years.
Fiorello La Guardia | Reformist New York City mayor during the Depression.
Glass-Steagall Act | 1933 New Deal law separating commercial and investment banking, creating the FDIC.
H. L. Mencken | Sardonic journalist and critic who covered the Scopes trial and skewered American culture.
Harold Stassen | "Boy Wonder" Minnesota governor who ran perennially, and unsuccessfully, for the Republican presidential nomination.
Harry Hopkins | FDR's close adviser who administered New Deal relief programs like the WPA.
Hattie Caraway | First woman elected to the US Senate in her own right, representing Arkansas from 1932.
Henry Morgenthau, Jr. | FDR's Treasury Secretary who financed the New Deal and World War II.
Hollywood | Los Angeles district that became the center of the American film industry's studio-era golden age.
Huntsville, Alabama | Alabama city that became a center of US rocket development under former German scientists after WWII.
Japan | WWII Axis power whose attack on Pearl Harbor drew the US into war; later a Cold War ally.
Joe Louis | Heavyweight boxing champion whose defeat of German Max Schmeling became a symbol of anti-Nazi pride.
Joseph Stilwell | US general ("Vinegar Joe") who commanded American forces in the China-Burma-India theater of WWII.
Julius Robert Oppenheimer | Full name of the physicist who led the Manhattan Project's development of the atomic bomb.
Korematsu v. United States | 1944 Supreme Court case upholding the constitutionality of Japanese-American internment.
Levittowns | Mass-produced postwar suburban housing developments symbolizing 1950s American suburbanization.
Lockheed Corporation | Aircraft manufacturer that grew into a major defense contractor through WWII and Cold War production.
Ludlow Amendment | Proposed 1930s constitutional amendment requiring a national referendum to declare war, defeated in Congress.
National Recovery Administration | New Deal agency setting industry codes for wages and prices, later struck down by the Supreme Court.
Near v. Minnesota | 1931 Supreme Court case establishing the doctrine against prior restraint of the press.
Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti | Italian anarchist immigrants controversially executed in 1927 for murder amid a climate of anti-radical prejudice.
NRA | National Recovery Administration, the New Deal agency that set industrial codes for wages and prices.
Oak Ridge | Tennessee town built secretly to enrich uranium for the Manhattan Project's atomic bomb.
Prohibition of Alcohol | Nationwide ban on alcohol (1920-1933) under the 18th Amendment and Volstead Act, fueling organized crime.
Reconstruction Finance Corporation | Hoover-era federal agency providing emergency loans to banks and businesses during the Depression.
Secretary of Agriculture | Cabinet post overseeing farm policy, notably held by Henry Wallace during the New Deal.
speakeasies | Illegal bars operating during Prohibition, often tied to organized crime bootlegging.
syphilis | Disease whose untreated progression was unethically studied on Black men in the infamous Tuskegee experiment.
the Mafia | Italian-American organized crime syndicates that grew powerful through Prohibition-era bootlegging.
Thomas Dewey | New York governor and Republican presidential nominee famously, and wrongly, predicted to defeat Truman in 1948.
Walker Evans | Farm Security Administration photographer whose stark Depression-era images documented rural poverty.
Walter Winchell | Influential gossip columnist and radio commentator shaping mid-20th-century American celebrity and political culture.
war bonds | Government securities sold to finance World War II, promoted through patriotic campaigns.
Wickard v. Filburn | 1942 Supreme Court case broadly expanding federal commerce power to reach even personal-use wheat production.
Will Hays | Hollywood censor who administered the "Hays Code" governing film content from the 1930s.

# The Cold War and Civil Rights
> Containment abroad and the fight for racial and social equality at home, from Truman through Nixon.
Harry S. Truman = Harry S Truman | 33rd President who ordered the atomic bombings of Japan, launched the Marshall Plan and Korean War, and desegregated the military.
Richard Nixon | 37th President who opened relations with China and ended the Vietnam War, then resigned in 1974 over Watergate.
Lyndon Baines Johnson | 36th President who signed the Civil Rights Act and built the Great Society while escalating the Vietnam War.
Black Panther Party | Militant Black self-defense and community-service organization founded in Oakland in 1966 by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale.
Earl Warren | Chief Justice whose Court decided Brown v. Board and Miranda; also chaired the commission on JFK's assassination.
Richard Milhous Nixon | Full name of the 37th President, who resigned in 1974 over Watergate.
Dwight D. Eisenhower | 34th President; WWII Supreme Allied Commander who sent troops to enforce Little Rock integration and warned of the "military-industrial complex."
FBI | Federal law-enforcement agency long led by J. Edgar Hoover; ran COINTELPRO surveillance against civil rights and radical groups.
Thurgood Marshall | NAACP lawyer who argued Brown v. Board of Education; became the first Black Supreme Court justice.
Vietnam War | Prolonged Cold War conflict in Southeast Asia that provoked massive antiwar protest and ended with US withdrawal in 1973.
Daniel Inouye | Japanese-American WWII veteran and longtime Hawaii senator; served on the Watergate and Iran-Contra committees.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy | 35th President; handled the Cuban Missile Crisis; assassinated in Dallas in 1963.
Malcolm X | Nation of Islam minister turned human-rights advocate for Black nationalism; assassinated in 1965.
Spiro Agnew | Nixon's vice president who resigned in 1973 over separate tax-evasion and bribery charges.
COINTELPRO | Covert FBI counterintelligence program that surveilled and disrupted civil rights and radical political groups.
Henry Kissinger | Nixon/Ford Secretary of State who pursued detente with the USSR and China and negotiated the end of US involvement in Vietnam.
House Un-American Activities Committee | Congressional committee investigating alleged communist influence, notorious for Hollywood blacklists and the Hiss case.
Poor People's Campaign | 1968 Martin Luther King Jr.-organized march on Washington demanding economic justice for the poor.
1960s | 
1964 | Year of the Civil Rights Act, the Gulf of Tonkin incident, and Johnson's landslide election.
1968 | Year of the Tet Offensive, the MLK and RFK assassinations, and a chaotic Democratic convention.
Baker v. Carr | 1962 Supreme Court case establishing federal courts' authority over legislative redistricting ("one person, one vote").
Brown v. Board of Education | 1954 Supreme Court case unanimously declaring public school segregation unconstitutional.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan | Sociologist-senator known for his controversial 1965 report on Black family structure and later Senate career.
Estes Kefauver | Tennessee senator whose televised organized-crime hearings made him a national figure; 1956 VP nominee.
Kerner Commission | Johnson-appointed body that blamed 1960s urban riots on white racism, warning of "two societies, separate and unequal."
Lemon v. Kurtzman | 1971 Supreme Court case establishing the "Lemon test" for Establishment Clause church-state cases.
Martin Luther King, Jr. = Martin Luther King Jr. | Baptist minister and civil rights leader famed for nonviolent protest and the "I Have a Dream" speech; assassinated 1968.
Miranda v. Arizona | 1966 Supreme Court case requiring police to inform suspects of their rights before interrogation.
The Washington Post | Newspaper whose Woodward and Bernstein reporting broke open the Watergate scandal.
Abraham "Abe" Fortas | Supreme Court justice who resigned in 1969 amid a financial scandal after a failed Chief Justice nomination.
Bayard Rustin | Openly gay civil rights strategist who organized the 1963 March on Washington.
Billy Graham | Evangelist whose mass crusades and presidential access made him a leading figure of postwar American Christianity.
Dwight David Eisenhower | Full name of the 34th President and WWII Supreme Allied Commander.
Fannie Lou Hamer | Mississippi sharecropper-turned-activist who co-founded the Freedom Democratic Party and testified at the 1964 DNC.
Fred Hampton | Illinois Black Panther leader killed in a 1969 police raid widely viewed as an assassination.
Freedom Summer | 1964 campaign to register Black voters in Mississippi, marked by the murder of three activists.
Great Society | Lyndon Johnson's ambitious program of social programs including Medicare, Medicaid, and the War on Poverty.
Jackie Robinson | First Black player in modern Major League Baseball, breaking the color line with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947.
James Meredith | First Black student to integrate the University of Mississippi in 1962, amid violent riots.
James William Fulbright | Arkansas senator who created the Fulbright scholarship program and chaired hearings against the Vietnam War.
John Edgar Hoover | Full name of the longtime FBI director who ran COINTELPRO against civil rights and radical groups.
John Glenn | First American to orbit Earth (1962); later a longtime Ohio senator.
Joseph McCarthy | Wisconsin senator who led sensationalized anti-communist investigations in the early 1950s ("McCarthyism").
Montgomery, Alabama | Alabama capital, site of the 1955-56 bus boycott sparked by Rosa Parks.
nine | 
Robert F. Kennedy | Attorney General and senator, brother of JFK, assassinated during his 1968 presidential campaign.
Robert Francis Kennedy | Full name of Robert F. Kennedy, assassinated during his 1968 presidential campaign.
Rosa Parks | Civil rights activist whose refusal to give up her bus seat sparked the 1955-56 Montgomery Bus Boycott.
Watts riots | 1965 Los Angeles uprising sparked by a traffic-stop incident, reflecting urban Black frustration with poverty and police.
William Westmoreland | US general who commanded forces during the escalation of the Vietnam War.
"The Ballot or the Bullet" | 1964 Malcolm X speech urging Black political action, warning of violence if rights were denied.
1950s | Decade of Cold War containment, the Korean War, McCarthyism, and the early civil rights movement.
1965 | Year of the Voting Rights Act, the Watts riots, and major Vietnam War escalation.
1968 Democratic National Convention | Chicago convention marked by violent clashes between police and antiwar protesters.
Abe Fortas | Supreme Court justice who resigned in 1969 amid a financial scandal after a failed Chief Justice nomination.
Adlai Ewing Stevenson II | Illinois governor and two-time Democratic presidential nominee, defeated by Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956.
Alger Hiss | State Department official convicted of perjury in a Cold War espionage case that launched Nixon's career.
Angela Davis | Black Panther-affiliated activist and scholar tried and acquitted for her alleged role in a 1970 courtroom shootout.
Bay of Pigs Invasion | Failed 1961 CIA-backed invasion of Cuba by exiles seeking to overthrow Castro.
Black Panthers | Militant Black self-defense and community-service organization founded in Oakland in 1966.
Black Power | Militant strand of the civil rights movement emphasizing Black self-determination and pride, associated with Stokely Carmichael.
Bob Woodward | Washington Post reporter, with Carl Bernstein, whose Watergate investigation helped bring down Nixon.
Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka | 1954 Supreme Court case unanimously declaring public school segregation unconstitutional.
Checkers speech | Nixon's 1952 televised address defending himself against slush-fund allegations, named for his dog.
Civil Rights Act of 1964 | Landmark law banning discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, signed by LBJ.
containment | US Cold War strategy of blocking Soviet expansion, articulated by George Kennan.
Cuban Missile Crisis | 1962 standoff between the US and USSR over Soviet missiles in Cuba, the Cold War's closest brush with nuclear war.
desegregation busing | Controversial policy transporting students to integrate schools, sparking resistance in cities like Boston in the 1970s.
Election of 1972 | Nixon's landslide reelection over George McGovern, later overshadowed by the unfolding Watergate scandal.
Emmett Till | Black teenager lynched in Mississippi in 1955, whose open-casket funeral galvanized the civil rights movement.
Fidel Castro | Cuban revolutionary leader whose 1959 takeover and alignment with the USSR triggered the Bay of Pigs and Missile Crisis.
George F. Kennan | Diplomat whose "Long Telegram" and "X Article" articulated the strategy of Cold War containment.
George Kennan | Diplomat who articulated the Cold War strategy of containment.
George McGovern | Antiwar South Dakota senator and 1972 Democratic presidential nominee, crushed by Nixon.
George Wallace | Segregationist Alabama governor who blocked a schoolhouse door and ran for president multiple times, including in 1968 as an independent.
Gideon v. Wainwright | 1963 Supreme Court case guaranteeing criminal defendants the right to an attorney.
Greensboro, North Carolina | Site of the 1960 lunch-counter sit-ins that sparked a wave of student-led civil rights protest.
Hmong | Southeast Asian ethnic group allied with the US during the Vietnam War, many later resettled as refugees.
HUAC | House Un-American Activities Committee, which investigated alleged communist influence and blacklisted Hollywood figures.
J. Edgar Hoover | Longtime FBI director who ran COINTELPRO against civil rights and radical groups.
John F. Kennedy | 35th President; handled the Cuban Missile Crisis; assassinated in Dallas in 1963.
John Marshall Harlan II | Mid-20th-century Supreme Court justice known for careful, conservative jurisprudence; grandson of an earlier "Great Dissenter" justice.
Johnson | 
Joseph Raymond McCarthy | Full name of the Wisconsin senator who led sensationalized anti-communist investigations in the 1950s.
Julius and Ethel Rosenberg | American couple executed in 1953 for conspiring to pass atomic secrets to the Soviet Union.
Kennedy family | Massachusetts political dynasty including President John F. Kennedy and senators Robert and Ted Kennedy.
Kitchen Debate | 1959 impromptu exchange between Nixon and Khrushchev at a Moscow exhibition, symbolizing Cold War rivalry.
Lavender Scare | 1950s campaign purging gay and lesbian federal employees amid Cold War fears of blackmail and subversion.
Little Rock | Arkansas capital, site of the 1957 Central High School desegregation crisis.
Loving v. Virginia | 1967 Supreme Court case striking down state bans on interracial marriage.
Lyndon B. Johnson | 36th President who signed the Civil Rights Act and built the Great Society while escalating the Vietnam War.
Mapp v. Ohio | 1961 Supreme Court case applying the exclusionary rule to state criminal proceedings.
March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom | 1963 mass demonstration where Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech.
Margaret Chase Smith | Maine senator known for her 1950 "Declaration of Conscience" speech condemning McCarthyism.
Mattachine | Early homophile rights organization founded in 1950, a precursor to the modern LGBTQ movement.
murder of Emmett Till | 1955 lynching of a Black teenager in Mississippi whose open-casket funeral galvanized the civil rights movement.
My Lai Massacre | 1968 killing of hundreds of Vietnamese civilians by US troops, a notorious Vietnam War atrocity.
Newark, New Jersey | New Jersey city that experienced major 1967 race riots amid urban decline.
Pentagon Papers | Leaked secret Defense Department history of the Vietnam War, published by the Times in 1971 despite Nixon's objections.
Profiles in Courage | Pulitzer-winning 1956 book on senatorial political courage, credited to John F. Kennedy.
Saturday Night Massacre | 1973 Watergate-era night when Nixon fired the special prosecutor after two officials resigned rather than comply.
Shelley v. Kraemer | 1948 Supreme Court case ruling that courts cannot enforce racially restrictive housing covenants.
Sirhan Sirhan | Assassin of Robert F. Kennedy during his 1968 presidential campaign.
South Korea | US ally defended in the 1950-53 Korean War against Soviet/Chinese-backed North Korea.
Southern Manifesto | 1956 congressional declaration by Southern lawmakers opposing Brown v. Board's school desegregation ruling.
strict scrutiny | Highest level of judicial review applied to laws affecting fundamental rights or suspect classifications like race.
Strom Thurmond | Segregationist Dixiecrat 1948 presidential candidate who became a record-long-serving senator after switching to the Republican Party.
Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee | Youth-led civil rights organization that organized sit-ins and Freedom Summer voter registration.
television | Mass medium that transformed politics and culture from the 1950s on, shaping events from the Kennedy-Nixon debates to Vietnam coverage.
Tet Offensive | 1968 massive North Vietnamese/Viet Cong assault that, despite US military success, undermined American public support for the Vietnam War.
the draft | Military conscription system whose inequities and enforcement became a central flashpoint of Vietnam-era protest.
University of Mississippi | School whose 1962 integration by James Meredith sparked deadly riots.
USS Maddox | US destroyer involved in the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident that prompted escalated Vietnam War involvement.
Warren | 
Warren Burger | Chief Justice whose Court decided United States v. Nixon, forcing release of the Watergate tapes.
Weather Underground | Radical leftist group that carried out bombings in protest of the Vietnam War in the late 1960s-70s.
Weather Underground Organization | Radical leftist group that carried out bombings in protest of the Vietnam War in the late 1960s-70s.
Whittaker Chambers | Former Soviet courier whose testimony helped convict State Department official Alger Hiss of perjury.
William O | 
William Rehnquist | Conservative Chief Justice who presided over Clinton's impeachment trial and Bush v. Gore.

# Contemporary America
> Politics, culture, and crises from the Reagan era to the present.
Ronald Reagan | 40th President (1981-89); former actor and California governor; supply-side "Reaganomics" and the end of the Cold War.
Bill Clinton | 42nd President (1993-2001); passed NAFTA and welfare reform; impeached over the Lewinsky affair.
Barry Goldwater | Arizona senator and 1964 Republican presidential nominee whose conservatism, and Reagan's "A Time for Choosing" speech, launched the modern right.
Jimmy Carter | 39th President; brokered the Camp David Accords; presided over the Iran hostage crisis; later a Nobel Peace laureate.
American Indian Movement | Activist group founded 1968 that occupied Alcatraz and Wounded Knee to protest federal Indian policy.
Ronald Wilson Reagan | Full name of the 40th President, whose "Reaganomics" and arms buildup marked the 1980s.
Stonewall riots | 1969 uprising at a Greenwich Village gay bar that launched the modern LGBTQ rights movement.
Equal Rights Amendment | Proposed constitutional amendment guaranteeing sex equality; passed Congress in 1972 but fell short of ratification amid Phyllis Schlafly's opposition.
Gerald Ford | 38th President, never elected VP or President; pardoned Nixon and survived two assassination attempts.
Phyllis Schlafly | Conservative activist who led the successful campaign to defeat the Equal Rights Amendment in the 1970s-80s.
John Birch Society | Anti-communist organization founded 1958 espousing conspiracy theories; influential on the mid-century American right.
LSD | Psychedelic drug central to 1960s counterculture, associated with figures like Timothy Leary.
Nicaragua | Central American nation at the center of the 1980s Iran-Contra affair, when the US funded anti-Sandinista rebels.
Richard Hofstadter | Historian whose works like The Paranoid Style in American Politics analyzed American political culture.
Alcatraz Island | Former federal prison in San Francisco Bay occupied by Native American activists from 1969-71.
birth control | Reproductive-rights issue championed by Margaret Sanger and later contested in cases like Griswold v. Connecticut and Roe v. Wade.
Cesar Chavez | Labor leader who co-founded the United Farm Workers and led boycotts for Mexican-American farmworkers' rights.
Cuban-Americans | Immigrant community concentrated in Miami, grown especially after Castro's revolution and events like the Mariel boatlift.
Eric Foner | Historian best known for his influential studies of Reconstruction and American freedom.
Iran-Contra affair | Reagan-era scandal in which arms sales to Iran illegally funded Nicaraguan Contra rebels.
Robert Moses | New York "master builder" whose highways and public projects reshaped the city, later criticized for urban destruction.
Ted Kennedy | Long-serving Massachusetts senator and last surviving Kennedy brother, a leading liberal voice for decades.
air traffic controllers | Federal workers whose 1981 strike Reagan broke by firing them en masse, a landmark labor-relations moment.
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 | Civil-rights law under George H.W. Bush banning discrimination against people with disabilities.
Barry Morris Goldwater | Full name of the Arizona senator and 1964 Republican presidential nominee.
Contract With America | 1994 Republican legislative platform under Newt Gingrich that helped the GOP win the House.
eminent domain | Government power to seize private property for public use, tested in cases like Kelo v. City of New London.
EPA | Environmental Protection Agency, created 1970 under Nixon to enforce federal environmental law.
George H. W. Bush | 41st President; led the Gulf War coalition; former CIA director and Reagan's VP.
George W. Bush | 43rd President who launched the War on Terror after 9/11, invading Afghanistan and Iraq.
Harvey Milk | First openly gay elected official in California, assassinated in 1978 as a San Francisco supervisor.
highways | Interstate system built under Eisenhower's 1956 act, reshaping American commerce and suburbanization.
Hurricane Katrina | 2005 storm that devastated New Orleans and exposed failures in federal disaster response.
John McCain | Arizona senator and Vietnam POW who was the 2008 Republican presidential nominee.
Nelson Rockefeller | New York governor and Gerald Ford's vice president; scion of the Rockefeller family.
prisons | Institutions whose 20th-century expansion and conditions became a major focus of civil-rights and policy debate.
Roe v. Wade | 1973 Supreme Court decision establishing a constitutional right to abortion, overturned in 2022.
Ross Perot | Texas businessman whose independent 1992 presidential campaign won nearly 19% of the popular vote.
Teamsters union | Trucking and warehouse workers' union long led by Jimmy Hoffa, tied to organized-crime scandals.
United States Presidential Election of 1984 | Landslide reelection of Ronald Reagan over Walter Mondale, who carried only Minnesota and DC.
"A Time for Choosing" | Reagan's 1964 televised speech for Goldwater's campaign that launched his own political career.
1992 | Year of Bill Clinton's election and the Los Angeles riots following the Rodney King verdict.
affirmative action | Policy promoting opportunities for historically disadvantaged groups, contested in cases from Bakke to Students for Fair Admissions.
Al Gore | Clinton's vice president who narrowly lost the disputed 2000 election to George W. Bush.
Angola | African nation whose civil war became a Cold War proxy conflict involving Cuban and US-backed forces.
Barack Obama | 44th President (2009-17), first Black president; passed the Affordable Care Act amid the Great Recession.
Betty Friedan | Author of The Feminine Mystique (1963) and co-founder of NOW, a leading figure of second-wave feminism.
Buckley | Surname of William F. Buckley Jr., conservative intellectual who founded National Review.
Colin Luther Powell | First Black Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, key figure in the Gulf War and Iraq War buildup.
George Herbert Walker Bush | Full name of the 41st President.
George Romney | Michigan governor and 1968 presidential candidate; father of Mitt Romney.
Gore | 
Jimmy Hoffa | Teamsters union leader with organized-crime ties who mysteriously disappeared in 1975.
MOVE | Philadelphia-based Black liberation group whose 1985 standoff ended when police bombed its house, killing eleven.
NAFTA | 1994 free-trade agreement among the US, Canada, and Mexico signed under Clinton.
Pat Brown | California governor, father of Jerry Brown, defeated by Reagan in the 1966 gubernatorial race.
Paul Volcker | Federal Reserve chairman whose high-interest-rate policy broke 1970s-80s inflation.
Robert Bork | Nixon-era solicitor general who fired the Watergate special prosecutor; his later Supreme Court nomination was rejected by the Senate.
Rudy Giuliani | New York City mayor known for 1990s crime crackdowns and his response to the September 11 attacks.
Secretary of Defense | Cabinet post overseeing the military, created in 1947 by the National Security Act.
Taiwan | Island nation whose status became a Cold War flashpoint after Nixon's opening to mainland China.
William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton | Full name of the 42nd President.
1990s | Decade of Clinton's presidency, the end of the Cold War's aftermath, and a tech-driven economic boom.
1994 | Year of NAFTA's implementation and the Republican "Contract With America" midterm sweep.
A People's History of the United States | Howard Zinn's influential 1980 book retelling American history from marginalized perspectives.
abortion | Reproductive-rights issue central to Roe v. Wade (1973) and its 2022 overturning.
Abscam | Late-1970s FBI sting operation that caught several members of Congress accepting bribes.
AIDS epidemic | Public health crisis emerging in the 1980s that disproportionately affected gay men and spurred activism like ACT UP.
Annette Gordon-Reed | Historian whose Pulitzer-winning work established Thomas Jefferson's paternity of Sally Hemings's children.
Apollo 1 fire | 1967 launch-pad fire that killed three astronauts, delaying the Apollo moon program.
Apollo 11 | 1969 mission that achieved the first crewed Moon landing, with Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin.
Arab-Americans | Immigrant community that grew substantially in the 20th century, facing increased scrutiny after the September 11 attacks.
astronauts | Space explorers of NASA's Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo programs during the Cold War Space Race.
Cesar Estrada Chavez | Full name of the labor leader who co-founded the United Farm Workers.
Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission | 2010 Supreme Court case holding that corporate political spending is protected free speech.
death penalty | Capital punishment practice whose constitutionality was contested in cases like Furman v. Georgia and Gregg v. Georgia.
Dolores Huerta | Labor activist who co-founded the United Farm Workers alongside Cesar Chavez.
Don't Ask, Don't Tell | 1993-2011 policy allowing gay Americans to serve in the military only if they concealed their sexuality.
Donald Rumsfeld | Secretary of Defense under George W. Bush who oversaw the Afghanistan and Iraq War efforts.
El Salvador | Central American nation whose civil war became a Cold War proxy conflict backed by the US.
Elian Gonzalez | Cuban boy at the center of a 2000 international custody dispute after his mother died fleeing to Florida.
Enron | Energy company whose 2001 accounting-fraud collapse became a symbol of corporate malfeasance.
gay bars | Social spaces central to LGBTQ community life, most famously the Stonewall Inn, site of the 1969 uprising.
George Walker Bush | Full name of the 43rd President.
gerrymandering | Practice of drawing electoral districts to favor a party, named for Governor Elbridge Gerry and contested in redistricting cases.
Gore Vidal | Novelist and essayist known for historical fiction on American politics and public feuds with figures like William F. Buckley.
homosexuality | Sexual orientation whose legal and social status shifted from criminalization through Stonewall-era activism to later civil-rights gains.
Howard Zinn | Historian whose A People's History of the United States retold history from marginalized perspectives.
Iran-Contra scandal | Reagan-era scandal in which arms sales to Iran illegally funded Nicaraguan Contra rebels.
Iraq War | 2003-2011 US-led invasion and occupation of Iraq under George W. Bush, justified by claims of weapons of mass destruction.
James Stockdale | Vietnam POW and Medal of Honor recipient who was Ross Perot's 1992 vice-presidential running mate.
Jim Jones | Cult leader whose Peoples Temple followers died in a mass murder-suicide at Jonestown in 1978.
John Hope Franklin | Historian known for From Slavery to Freedom, a foundational survey of African American history.
Kelo v. City of New London | 2005 Supreme Court case controversially upholding eminent domain seizure of homes for private economic development.
Korean-Americans | Immigrant community that grew substantially after 1965 immigration reform, notably in cities like Los Angeles.
LAPD | Los Angeles Police Department, central to controversies from the Rodney King beating to the 1992 riots.
Margaret | 
Mariel Boatlift | 1980 mass emigration of Cubans to Florida after Castro opened the port of Mariel.
Mitch McConnell | Long-serving Kentucky senator and Senate Republican leader shaping judicial confirmations.
NASA | Federal space agency created 1958 that ran the Cold War-era Apollo Moon program.
National Review | Conservative magazine founded 1955 by William F. Buckley Jr., influential in shaping the modern American right.
Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller | Full name of the New York governor and Gerald Ford's vice president.
obscenity | Legal category contested in cases balancing First Amendment protections against community morality standards.
October surprise | Term for late-campaign events, notably 1980 claims that Reagan's camp delayed the Iran hostage release to hurt Carter.
Oklahoma City Bombing | 1995 domestic terrorist attack by Timothy McVeigh on a federal building, killing 168 people.
Pat Buchanan | Conservative commentator and Nixon speechwriter who ran insurgent Republican and Reform Party presidential campaigns.
Rand Paul | Libertarian-leaning Kentucky senator and son of Ron Paul, known for filibusters on civil liberties issues.
redlining | Discriminatory practice of denying services like mortgages to residents of minority neighborhoods.
Sandra Day O'Connor | First woman Supreme Court justice, appointed by Reagan in 1981.
Shelby Foote | Historian and novelist whose narrative trilogy and Ken Burns documentary appearances popularized Civil War history.
standing | Legal doctrine requiring plaintiffs to show sufficient stake to bring a case, central to many constitutional rulings.
Stonewall Inn | Greenwich Village gay bar whose 1969 police raid sparked riots launching the modern LGBTQ rights movement.
Strategic Defense Initiative | Reagan's proposed missile-defense system ("Star Wars") intended to shoot down Soviet nuclear missiles.
the Internet | Communications network originating from the Cold War-era ARPANET, later commercialized in the 1990s.
Tom Bradley | Long-serving Los Angeles mayor, the city's first Black mayor, who oversaw the 1984 Olympics.
USA PATRIOT Act | 2001 law expanding government surveillance powers in response to the September 11 attacks.
Waco, Texas | Site of the 1993 deadly federal standoff with the Branch Davidian religious sect.
Walter Mondale | Carter's vice president and 1984 Democratic presidential nominee, defeated in a landslide by Reagan.
White House Press Secretary | 
Whitewater scandal | Arkansas real-estate investigation into the Clintons that spawned a broader independent-counsel probe.
William F. Buckley, Jr. | Conservative intellectual who founded National Review and hosted Firing Line, shaping the modern American right.
Willie Horton | Convicted felon whose furlough became infamous in a racially charged ad against 1988 candidate Michael Dukakis.

# States, Territories, and Cities
> American states, territories, and cities as they figure in quizbowl geography and history questions.
California | Westernmost major state; 1849 Gold Rush, admitted 1850 as free state; later center of film, tech, and agriculture.
Chicago | Illinois metropolis rebuilt after the 1871 fire; hub of meatpacking and rail, site of the Haymarket riot and 1893 World's Fair.
Texas | Independent republic after the Alamo and San Jacinto (1836), annexed 1845; seceded to the Confederacy; major oil producer.
Georgia | Last of the thirteen colonies, founded 1732 by James Oglethorpe as a debtors' refuge; Sherman's 1864 March to the Sea ended there.
New York | Former Dutch New Netherland; the Erie Canal fueled its rise as the nation's commercial and immigration gateway.
San Francisco | California port built by the 1849 Gold Rush; devastated by the 1906 earthquake; center of 1960s counterculture and gay rights activism.
South Carolina | First state to secede (December 1860); site of the Fort Sumter attack opening the Civil War; nullification crisis of 1832.
New York City | Nation's largest city, founded as Dutch New Amsterdam; Tammany Hall machine politics; Ellis Island immigration gateway.
Virginia | Site of Jamestown (1607), first permanent English colony; home to many early presidents; Confederate capital at Richmond.
Florida | Spanish colony centered on St. Augustine; ceded to the US in 1819 by the Adams-Onis Treaty; scene of the Seminole Wars.
North Carolina | Site of the failed Roanoke "Lost Colony"; Revolutionary War battles; Wright Brothers' first flight at Kitty Hawk.
Philadelphia | Pennsylvania city that hosted the Continental Congresses and the Constitutional Convention.
Kansas | "Bleeding Kansas" violence over slavery followed the 1854 Kansas-Nebraska Act; admitted as a free state in 1861.
Mississippi | Deep South cotton state that seceded in 1861; site of Freedom Summer and the murder of Emmett Till.
Colorado | "Centennial State" admitted 1876; grew from gold and silver mining booms.
Louisiana | Acquired from France in the 1803 Louisiana Purchase; sugar and cotton economy centered on New Orleans.
Detroit | Michigan city built by Ford and GM into the center of the US auto industry; 1967 riots and Motown Records.
Oklahoma | Former Indian Territory ending the Trail of Tears; opened to settlement by the 1889 land run; oil-rich state.
Massachusetts | Puritan colony centered on Boston; scene of the Tea Party and Shays' Rebellion; early hub of abolitionism and industry.
Los Angeles | Southern California city built around the film and aerospace industries; site of the 1992 riots after the Rodney King verdict.
Rhode Island | Founded by Roger Williams as a haven for dissenters like Anne Hutchinson; smallest state, last to ratify the Constitution.
Boston | Massachusetts capital; site of the Tea Party, the Massacre, and the Revolutionary War's opening battles.
New Jersey | Middle colony/state; scene of Revolutionary War battles at Trenton and Monmouth.
Maine | Admitted 1820 as a free state under the Missouri Compromise, having separated from Massachusetts.
Michigan | Great Lakes state centered on Detroit's auto industry; admitted 1837.
Ohio | Formed from the Northwest Territory; birthplace of numerous presidents ("Mother of Presidents").
Alaska | Purchased from Russia in 1867 ("Seward's Folly"); became the 49th state in 1959; rich in oil.
Illinois | Midwest state anchored by Chicago; Lincoln's adopted home state.
Indiana | Midwest state admitted 1816; site of the Battle of Tippecanoe.
Missouri | Admitted 1821 under the Missouri Compromise; departure point for Lewis and Clark; divided border state in the Civil War.
Arkansas | Southern state; site of the 1957 Little Rock school desegregation crisis.
Pennsylvania | Founded by William Penn as a Quaker refuge; hosted the Constitutional Convention and the Battle of Gettysburg.
Tennessee | Border South state; Andrew Jackson's home; site of the 1925 Scopes evolution trial.
Washington, D.C. | Federal capital planned by Pierre L'Enfant; burned by the British in 1814; site of the 1963 March on Washington.
West Virginia | Broke from Virginia in 1863 over secession; coal-mining economy.
Wisconsin | Midwest state known for the Progressive-era "Wisconsin Idea" under Robert La Follette.
Maryland | Founded by Lord Baltimore as a Catholic refuge; divided border state where Antietam was fought.
Puerto Rico | Caribbean island ceded by Spain after the 1898 Spanish-American War; US territory/commonwealth.
Baltimore | Maryland port city whose 1814 bombardment at Fort McHenry inspired "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Chicago, Illinois | Rebuilt after the 1871 fire into a meatpacking and rail hub; hosted the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition.
Hawaii | Annexed in 1898 after the overthrow of Queen Liliuokalani; site of the Pearl Harbor attack; became the 50th state in 1959.
Kentucky | Border state; site of Jefferson's anonymous Kentucky Resolutions against the Alien and Sedition Acts; Lincoln's birthplace.
New Hampshire | New England state known for holding the nation's first presidential primary.
Oregon | Pacific Northwest territory settled via the Oregon Trail; joint US-British occupation resolved by an 1846 treaty.
Alabama | Deep South state; site of the Montgomery Bus Boycott and the Selma-to-Montgomery marches.
Connecticut | New England colony organized under the 1639 Fundamental Orders; nicknamed the "Constitution State."
Minnesota | Upper Midwest state admitted 1858; site of the Dakota War of 1862 and heavy Scandinavian immigrant settlement.
New Orleans | French-founded Louisiana port; site of Jackson's 1815 victory; devastated by Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
St. Louis | Missouri city on the Mississippi; gateway for westward expansion; hosted the 1904 World's Fair.
Charleston | South Carolina port city; site of the Fort Sumter attack and a major slave-trading port.
Atlanta | Georgia city burned by Sherman in 1864; later a hub of the civil rights movement and "New South" commerce.
Cleveland | Ohio industrial city on Lake Erie; birthplace of Standard Oil.
New Mexico | Territory gained in the Mexican Cession with deep Pueblo and Spanish colonial heritage; became a state in 1912.
Russia | Sold Alaska to the US in 1867; later Cold War superpower rival as the Soviet Union.
Santa Fe | New Mexico city founded by Spanish colonists; terminus of the Santa Fe Trail trade route.
Vermont | Independent republic before joining the Union in 1791 as the 14th state.
Baltimore, Maryland | Maryland port city bombarded by the British in 1814, inspiring "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Boston, Massachusetts | Massachusetts capital and site of the Tea Party and the Massacre.
Memphis | Tennessee city on the Mississippi; site of Martin Luther King Jr.'s 1968 assassination.
Montana | Northern Plains state; site of the Battle of the Little Bighorn; admitted 1889.
Nebraska | Plains territory organized by the 1854 Kansas-Nebraska Act; admitted as a state in 1867.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania | Pennsylvania city that hosted the Continental Congresses and the Constitutional Convention.
Wyoming | First territory/state to grant women's suffrage (1869); site of Yellowstone.
Albany | New York state capital; site of the 1754 Albany Congress and the Erie Canal's terminus.
California Gold Rush | 1848-49 rush of prospectors ("forty-niners") to California after gold was found at Sutter's Mill.
Canada | British colony/dominion bordering the US; target of failed American invasions in 1775 and 1812.
Charleston, South Carolina | Port city where the Civil War began at Fort Sumter; a major slave-trading hub.
Cleveland, Ohio | Great Lakes industrial city; birthplace of Standard Oil.
Delaware | First state to ratify the Constitution (1787); originally part of Pennsylvania under William Penn.
Harvard University | Nation's oldest college, founded 1636 in Massachusetts Bay Colony to train Puritan ministers.
land | 
Long Island | New York island site of a 1776 Revolutionary War battle and later suburban Levittown development.
Mayor of New York City | 
Mexico | Southern neighbor that lost its northern territories in the Mexican-American War; later a NAFTA partner.
Mississippi River | Major continental waterway central to Louisiana Purchase commerce and Civil War strategy, including the Vicksburg campaign.
Nevada | "Silver State" admitted 1864, boosted by the Comstock Lode mining boom.
Seattle | Pacific Northwest city that grew from the Klondike Gold Rush and hosted a major 1919 general strike.
Washington | 
Arizona | Southwestern territory gained via the Mexican Cession and Gadsden Purchase; became a state in 1912.
Idaho | Northwestern mining state admitted 1890; part of the earlier Oregon Country dispute.
Savannah | Georgia's first city, founded by James Oglethorpe in 1733; endpoint of Sherman's March to the Sea.
Utah | Territory settled by Mormon migrants under Brigham Young; statehood delayed by the polygamy dispute until 1896.
Cincinnati, Ohio | Ohio River city that grew as a 19th-century meatpacking and manufacturing hub ("Porkopolis").
Detroit, Michigan | Auto-industry city built by Ford and GM; scene of the 1967 riots.
Miami | South Florida city grown by land booms and Cuban-American immigration after the 1959 revolution.
Milwaukee | Wisconsin city known for its German brewing industry and "sewer socialist" municipal government.
North Dakota | Northern Plains state admitted 1889 alongside South Dakota.
Pittsburgh | Pennsylvania steel city built by Andrew Carnegie, site of the 1892 Homestead strike.
Brazil | South American nation occasionally referenced in US trade and Cold War contexts.
Cincinnati | Ohio River city that grew as a 19th-century meatpacking and manufacturing hub ("Porkopolis").
Columbia University | New York City Ivy League school, founded as colonial King's College, site of major 1968 and later student protests.
Commonwealth of Kentucky | Border state; site of Jefferson's Kentucky Resolutions; Lincoln's birthplace.
Galveston | Texas port devastated by the deadly 1900 hurricane, the worst natural disaster in US history.
Governor of Texas | 
Hawai'i | Annexed in 1898 after the overthrow of Queen Liliuokalani; site of Pearl Harbor; became the 50th state in 1959.
Iowa | Midwest farm state admitted 1846, site of the nation's first-in-the-nation caucuses.
Los Angeles, California | Southern California city built around the film and aerospace industries.
Missouri River | Major tributary of the Mississippi followed by Lewis and Clark on their westward expedition.
New Bedford | Massachusetts port that was the world's leading whaling center in the 19th century.
Niagara Falls | New York/Canada border landmark and early hydroelectric power site.
Ohio River | Major waterway forming the boundary of the Northwest Territory and a route for westward settlement.
San Francisco, California | California port built by the 1849 Gold Rush; devastated by the 1906 earthquake.
South Dakota | Northern Plains state admitted 1889 alongside North Dakota; site of the Black Hills gold rush and Wounded Knee.
United States Postal Service | Federal mail agency tracing its roots to Benjamin Franklin, the first Postmaster General.
1906 San Francisco Earthquake | Massive quake and fire that destroyed much of San Francisco, killing thousands.
Arizona Territory | Southwestern territory organized 1863, gained via the Mexican Cession and Gadsden Purchase; became a state in 1912.
Atlantic City, New Jersey | New Jersey seaside resort city later known for gambling and hosting the 1964 Democratic National Convention.
Buffalo, New York | New York city on Lake Erie, site of President McKinley's 1901 assassination at the Pan-American Exposition.
Chicago Tribune | Major Chicago newspaper, infamous for its mistaken 1948 "Dewey Defeats Truman" headline.
Commonwealth of Massachusetts | Puritan colony centered on Boston; scene of the Tea Party and Shays' Rebellion.
Dallas | Texas city where President Kennedy was assassinated in 1963.
Galveston, Texas | Texas port devastated by the deadly 1900 hurricane, the worst natural disaster in US history.
Georgetown University | Washington, D.C. Jesuit university founded 1789, the nation's oldest Catholic institution of higher learning.
governor of California | 
Great Chicago Fire | 1871 blaze that destroyed much of Chicago, prompting the city's rapid modern rebuilding.
Kansas City | Missouri city known for jazz and cattle/rail trade, straddling the Kansas border.
Kansas City, Missouri | Missouri city known for jazz and cattle/rail trade, straddling the Kansas border.
Madison Square Garden | New York City arena hosting major political conventions, sports events, and cultural gatherings.
Mobile | Alabama's major port city, founded by the French in the colonial era.
New Orleans, Louisiana | Louisiana port city founded by the French; site of Jackson's 1815 victory; devastated by Hurricane Katrina.
New Zealand | 
NYPD | New York Police Department, whose scale and controversies have made it central to policing and civil-rights debates.
Portland, Maine | Maine's largest city and historic seaport.
Potomac River | River forming much of the Virginia-Maryland border and flowing past Washington, D.C.
Rio de Janeiro | 
Rio Grande | River forming the US-Mexico border, a disputed boundary that helped trigger the Mexican-American War.
Speaker of the House of Representatives | 
St. Louis, Missouri | Missouri city on the Mississippi; gateway for westward expansion; hosted the 1904 World's Fair.
Stanford | California university founded 1885 by railroad magnate Leland Stanford in memory of his son.
Staten Island | New York City borough connected to Manhattan by ferry, historically distinct from the other boroughs.
University of Chicago | Major research university founded 1890 with Rockefeller funding.
Utah Territory | Territory settled by Mormon migrants under Brigham Young; statehood delayed by the polygamy dispute until 1896.
Washington State | Pacific Northwest state settled via the Oregon Trail dispute; admitted in 1889.
Yale University | Connecticut Ivy League school founded 1701, alma mater of numerous US presidents.
