=== STOCK CLUES: Ave Verum Corpus ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: "Ave verum corpus"
  - Roderick Williams "reimagined" this text in an Ivesian homage that ends with clashing D major and minor.
  - At the end of a 1605 setting of this text, a tenor F-sharp followed closely by a bass F-natural forms a dissonant false relation on the repeated words "Miserere mei" . [PWR]
  - Sopranos sing the first word of this short text twice on the notes "long A, [pause] high D, low F-sharp, A, G-sharp, G" after a 2-bar sotto voce introduction by (*) strings and continuo. [PWR]
  - Liszt quoted Allegri's Miserere alongside a setting of this text in A la Chapelle Sixtine, which Tchaikovsky orchestrated for the "Preghiera"  of Mozartiana.
  - The chords G minor, D major, then unexpectedly F major begin a setting of this text from the first Gradualia by William Byrd.
  - Mozart's serene 46-bar motet of this text was a gift for Anton Stoll.
  - For 10 points, name this Latin hymn about the Eucharist whose English translation begins "Hail, true body." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: All four voices of this piece begin sotto voce ("VOH-chay"), and this piece uses chromatic pitches outside its key of D major, such as G-sharp and E-sharp, to highlight the words "passum" and "immolatum." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mozart's Ave verum corpus [prompt on either part alone]):
    Name this piece only lasting forty-six measures addressed to the Virgin Mary that was written for the Corpus Christi feast. This 1791 choral piece for strings and organ was written as a gift for Anton Stoll, a conductor at the St. Stephan church in Baden.
  Part 2 (ans: motets):
    Mozart's Ave verum corpus is one of these polyphonic choral pieces that set a sacred Latin text instead of the secular vernacular texts set by madrigals.
  Part 3 (ans: Allegri's Miserere):
    Franz Liszt quoted both Mozart's Ave verum corpus and this piece by Gregorio Allegri in his Evocation a la Chapelle Sixtine. This piece was only used during the Sistine Chapel Tenebrae ("TEN-uh-bree") service and prevented from being transcribed until Mozart did so from memory.

[B2] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about William Byrd, the sickest, slickest, meanest composer of the 16th-century Renaissance, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ave verum corpus):
    He composed a G minor, 4/2 time setting of this 14th-century Latin text about the physical presence of Jesus Christ during the Eucharist, whose opening words translate as "Hail, true body."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Tallis):
    This teacher of Byrd called for eight separate five-part choirs in his motet Spem in alium, which describes how one's hope can only be placed in the omnipotent God.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth I [prompt on Elizabeth]):
    Byrd and Tallis were employed by this English monarch who is allegorized as Gloriana, the protagonist of Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene.

[B3] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Venetian or polychoral style of this type of composition was pioneered by Giovanni Gabrieli and was continued by his student Heinrich Schutz in his Symphoniae sacrae. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: motet [or motectum; or mottetto]):
    Name this type of polyphonic vocal work, the sacred counterpart of the madrigal, examples of which include Tallis's Spem in alium and Byrd's Cantiones sacrae.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina):
    This Italian Renaissance composer wrote a collection of motets setting texts from the Song of Solomon, his Canticum canticorum. His Pope Marcellus Mass is credited with saving polyphony.
  Part 3 (ans: Ave verum corpus):
    Mozart's final and most celebrated motet is a setting of this Latin text praising the true body of the Virgin Mary. Liszt combined this motet with Allegri's Miserere in his A la Chapelle Sixtine.
