=== STOCK CLUES: Frederick Douglass ===
Tossup questions: 8 found, 39 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 18 found, 54 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
  - This person was removed from one position after a meeting broke down with Antenor Firmin in the 'Mole Saint-Nicolas Affair.' This person gave a speech citing the actions which led a particular group to North Elba, where "the dust now settles amongst the Adirondacks," for the forteen-year anniversary of Storer College. [PWR]
  - This person claimed that men had rights to "the ballot box, jury box, and cartridge box" in a speech about the "four boxes of liberty, " When running for one political office, this person's house was burned down forcing them to move to Cedar (*) Hill. [PWR]
  - This person's main publication was located below the offices of Harriet Jacobs in Rochester, New York.
  - This person started the New National Era during Reconstruction and was president of the Freedman's Savings Bank.
  - For 10 points, name this abolitionist and vice-presidential running mate of Victoria Woodhull in the 1872 election. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
  - A 2018 biography notes how the intellectual Ottilie Assing, who translated a work by this man, called his wife Anna a "veritable beast." This man, called a "Prophet" in a David W.
  - Blight biography, recalled in one book being given food by Nathan Johnson.
  - John Stauffer collaborated on an illustrated biography titled "Picturing" this man, the most photographed American of the 19th century.
  - This man recalled how he was almost "broken" by Edward Covey and learned to read thanks to Sophie Auld in an autobiography with a foreword written by abolitionist William Lloyd Garrison.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of The North Star, whose autobiographies include My Bondage and My Freedom. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
  - A biography of this man recalls his collaboration - and possible romance - with Julia Griffiths, who organized a sewing society to promote his work. [PWR]
  - A 2018 biography notes how the intellectual Ottilie Assing, who sought permission to translate a work by this man, called his wife Anna a "veritable beast." This man, called a "Prophet" in a David W. [PWR]
  - Blight biography, recalled in one book being given food by Nathan Johnson. [PWR]
  - John Stauffer collaborated on an illustrated biography titled (*) "Picturing" this man, the most photographed American of the 19th century. [PWR]
  - This man recalled how he was almost "broken" by Edward Covey in an autobiography, in which he learns to read thanks to Sophie Auld.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of The North Star, whose autobiographies include My Bondage and My Freedom. [GIVE]

[T4] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey; accept Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass, an American Slave]
  - This author added a character named Caroline who goes to milk a cow in a rewritten version of a scene that appears in an earlier work which lasts for "nearly two hours." This author described ships "robed in purest white" that seemed like "shrouded ghosts" in a work in which Sandy gives the protagonist a root to keep on the right side of his body to ward off harm.
  - The protagonist of a work by this author learns how to read from the Columbian Orator after being forbidden by Hugh Auld.
  - William Lloyd Garrison wrote an introduction to this author's memoir, which depicts his fight against Edward Covey.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about escaping his enslavement in three autobiographies including My Bondage and My Freedom and a Narrative in the Life of himself, An American Slave. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Frederick Douglass's fight with Edward Covey [accept battle or struggle or synonyms in place of "fight"; accept Mr. Covey, Edward, or descriptions like the slave-breaker, farmer, farm-renter, boss, or master in place of "Edward Covey"] (Paul Gilroy's The Black Atlantic compares the scene to Hegel's master-slave dialectic.)
  - Description acceptable.
  - In John Updike's Rabbit Redux, Rabbit reads this literary scene aloud while Skeeter ejaculates on his couch.
  - This scene is described as an "ideal speech situation" in a chapter titled for "Antinomies of Modernity" by Paul Gilroy, who reads it as a reworking of the German idealist thought that Ottilie Assing introduced to the author.
  - Prior to this scene, Sandy gives the narrator a "root" that will ward off harm if it's kept on the right side of his body.
  - In Chapter X  of a book, this scene is preceded by the line, "You have seen how a man was made a slave; you shall see how a slave was made a man." This scene unfolds over two hours in a horse stable, and results in a sadistic man nicknamed "the snake" never harming the protagonist again.
  - For 10 points, identify this climactic scene from Frederick Douglass's autobiographies, in which he physically bests the man he's been leased to. [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: speeches of Frederick Douglass [or addresses of Frederick Douglass; or orations of Frederick Douglass; or lectures of Frederick Douglass; accept other synonyms for "speeches"; accept Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey in place of "Douglass"; prompt on partial answers]
  - (Note to moderator: read answerline carefully.) An example of this genre by this author was likened to "a symphony in three movements" by David Blight and proclaims "it is not light that is needed, but fire." A Ben Franklin-inspired text of this type by this author opines "I do not think much of the good luck theory" and was titled "Self-Made Men." The last major one of these pieces by this man, "Lessons of the Hour," lists "three distinct periods of persecution of negroes." A frequently recreated instance of this genre by this author responds to the title question with the words "a day that reveals to him...the gross injustice and cruelty to which he is the constant victim." That piece in this genre by this author, delivered in 1852, is titled "What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?" For 10 points, name these rhetorical pieces by the Black abolitionist who published The North Star. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Frederick Douglass [accept Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]
  - In one speech, this man grounded morality and social progress in humanity's appreciation of art, claiming that humanity is a "picture-making animal." Henry Jackson Lewis offered images of this man to encourage new subscriptions of an Indianapolis newspaper. [PWR]
  - A photograph of this man was used to advertise lectures he gave for the Redpath Lyceum Bureau, such as "Self-Made Men" and "Races." This man was photographed several times by John White Hearn, who had earlier saved him from arrest for his near participation in the (*) Raid on Harpers Ferry. [PWR]
  - This man generally eschewed props and used his gaze and orientation with respect to the camera in his photos so as to not project the image of a "happy slave." For 10 points, name this most photographed American of the 19th century, who used the newspaper The North Star to advocate for African-American rights. [GIVE]

[T8] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Frederick Douglass
  - This figure is given a supposed magical root by a man named Sandy.
  - He remembers an incident in which Demby refuses to leave a stream and is shot by Mr.
  - Gore.
  - As a child he befriends Daniel and tricks older boys into giving him reading lessons by pretending to know more than them.
  - He is changed when he reads a copy of the The Columbian Orator.
  - He recalls speaking to the ships that sail by before relating his fight with the sadistic Edward Covey.
  - He becomes a caulker at a Baltimore shipyard, but is forced to turn all his wages over to Hugh Auld.
  - He marries Anna Murray and goes to New Bedford, Massachusetts, after escaping from Maryland.
  - For 10 points, name this character, a prominent abolitionist who relates the narrative of his life of slavery in a notable autobiography. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Many laws banning enslaved people from learning to read and write were passed in the wake of the publication of a work by this man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: David Walker [accept Walker's Appeal]):
    Name this man who wrote for New York's Freedom Journal, the first newspaper owned by African Americans. He wrote a radically abolitionist namesake Appeal to the Colored Citizens of the World.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    Walker attacked the Declaration of Independence in his Appeal, which was also attacked in this man's speech "What to the Slave is the Fourth of July?" This abolitionist who wrote about his escape from slavery published The North Star.
  Part 3 (ans: John Brown):
    This abolitionist helped Henry Highland Garnet publish the 1848 edition of Walker's Appeal. Shortly before his execution, this man wrote, "the crimes of this guilty land can never be purged away but with blood."

[B2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In order to escape to Ohio, the title character of this novel dresses as a white man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Clotel [or Clotel; or, The President's Daughter: A Narrative of Slave Life in the United States]):
    Name this novel that, although published in London, was the first novel published by an African-American. This novel ends after the title daughter of Thomas Jefferson commits suicide in order to avoid slavery.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]):
    William Wells Brown, the author of Clotel, also wrote a popular slave narrative that was second in popularity only to a narrative by this abolitionist who founded the North Star newspaper.
  Part 3 (ans: Harriet [accept Harriet Wilson; accept Harriet Jacobs; prompt on Linda Brent by asking, "What is her real name?"] (The Harriet Wilson novel is Our Nig.)):
    The first book published by an African-American in the US was by an author with this [emphasize] first name for a novel about Mag Smith. A different author with this first name wrote Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl.

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem recasts Ariel's song from The Tempest as "Deep in the festering hold thy father lies, / of his bones New England pews are made, / those are altar lights that were his eyes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Middle Passage):
    Name this poem by Robert Hayden about the Atlantic slave trade, titled for something described as the "voyage through death / to life upon these shores."
  Part 2 (ans: Sunday [accept "Those Winter Sundays" or "Sunday Morning"]):
    Hayden wrote a poem about his father in wintertime partly titled for this day of the week. Wallace Stevens described "casual flocks of pigeons" making "Ambiguous undulations" in a poem titled "[This day] Morning."
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    Hayden's poem titled for this man imagines him remembered not with "legends or poems" or "bronze," "but with the lives grown out of his life." This writer's memoirs relate how he once worked as a caulker in a Baltimore shipyard and how he stood up to Edward Covey.

[B4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In a meeting in a Chambersburg quarry, one man refused to participate in this event, claiming that it was too risky. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: raid on Harpers Ferry [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry] (The quarry meeting was with Frederick Douglass.)):
    Name this event that led to the deaths of Shields Green, John Copeland, and Dangerfield Newby. Before this event, a man rented the Kennedy farmhouse in the guise of the mining engineer Isaac Smith.
  Part 2 (ans: John Brown):
    This abolitionist, who wrote "the crimes of this guilty land will never be purged away but with blood," raided Harpers Ferry in 1859.
  Part 3 (ans: Secret Six [or Secret Committee of Six]):
    John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry was funded by this group, whose members included Thomas Wentworth Higginson and Samuel Girdley Howe.

[B5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one story by this author, a man becomes young every spring and old again in the fall after rubbing sap on himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Chesnutt (The story is "The Goophered Grapevine.")):
    Name this author of The Wife of His Youth. He included a story about Aunt Peggy in a collection of tales told by Uncle Julius.
  Part 2 (ans: The AtlanticMonthly):
    Moses Dresser Philips founded this magazine, which published "The Goophered Grapevine" and other early Chesnutt stories. In 2014, it published Ta-Nehisi Coates's "The Case for Reparations."
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    Chesnutt wrote a biography of this man who penned a narrative of his escape from slavery. He delivered the oration "What to the Slave is the Fourth of July?"

[B6] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In this speech, the title question was answered with "a day that reveals to him, more than all other days in the year, the gross injustice and cruelty to which he is the constant victim." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "What, to the slave, is the Fourth of July?" [or "What, to a slave, is the Fourth of July?"]):
    Name this speech, which declared "your shout of liberty and equality" to be "hollow mockery," and that "[t]here is not a nation on the earth guilty of practices more shocking and bloody" than the United States.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]):
    "What, to the slave, is the Fourth of July?" was a speech given by this man, who wrote a Narrative of his life as "an American slave" and founded the abolitionist newspaper The North Star.
  Part 3 (ans: 54th Massachusetts (Volunteer Infantry) Regiment):
    During the Civil War, two of Douglass's sons served in this black regiment. Robert Gould Shaw led this regiment in an attack on Fort Wagner.

[B7] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's most famous work was thought to be a novel by Lydia Maria Child until the work of Jean Fagan Yellin starting in the 1970s. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harriet Ann Jacobs (The book is Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl.)):
    Name this author best known for an autobiographical book in which the protagonist hides in an attic where she can't sit or stand for seven years to avoid Dr. Flint.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Louis Gates):
    This Harvard professor included Harriet Jacobs's narrative in his "Schomburg Library of Nineteenth-Century Black Women Writers." This man used parentheses to enclose the final "g" of the title concept throughout his book The Signifying Monkey.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]):
    While living in Rochester, Jacobs worked above the offices of this man's newspaper The North Star. This man's slave narratives include My Bondage and My Freedom.

[B8] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The poem "Thirty Years" was published with a book in this genre by the Cuban poet Juan Francisco Manzano. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: slave narrative [prompt on autobiography]):
    Name this genre. James Albert, also known as Ukawsaw Gronniosaw, wrote the first of these texts to be published in English.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    Likely the most famous slave narrative is the autobiography by this escaped slave, who later participated in the Seneca Falls convention and edited the North Star.
  Part 3 (ans: cannibalism [accept eating people]):
    In contrast to Frederick Douglass, George Fitzhugh argued in favor of slavery, comparing abolitionism to this activity. The word for this crime derives from the name of a Caribbean tribe that regularly performed this activity, according to Spanish conquistadors.

[B9] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A book on "picturing" this man reprinted his "Lecture on Pictures," which argued that photography allowed anyone to make their "subjective nature objective," even in spite of a prejudiced documenter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]):
    Name this man who also gave lectures titled "Age of Pictures," "Life Pictures," and "Pictures and Progress." Many photographs of him were preserved in albums collected by Arabella Chapman.
  Part 2 (ans: The North Star):
    Frederick Douglass, who's done an amazing job and is being recognized more and more, saw photography as a counterpoint to minstrelsy, which he denounced often in essays for this newspaper that he edited from 1847 to 1851.
  Part 3 (ans: Hiram (Rhodes) Revels):
    Douglass invoked the example of white viewers confronting a photograph of this Mississippi senator, the first African American to serve in either house of Congress.

[B10] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This type of person was the subject of the question "Am I not a man and a brother?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Slaves):
    Harriet Tubman led thirteen expeditions to help this type of person.
  Part 2 (ans: William Still):
    This person was known as the "Father of the Underground Railroad" and published an account called The Underground Railroad Records. This person met his long lost brother Peter while aiding him in escaping slavery.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Douglass (or Frederick Johnson, Frederick Stanley, very reluctantly accept Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey)):
    This freed slave wrote and published a namesake 1845 Narrative of his Life while living in Lynn, Massachusetts. This man delivered the speeches "What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?," and "The Hypocrisy of American Slavery."

[B11] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a work of this type, the title character learns that Mr. Trappe is blackmailing "the Mistress" of Linendale, with whom she later flees. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: slave narratives):
    Name this type of literary work, exemplified by The Bondwoman's Narrative. In another work of this type, the title person bites Mr. Covey's hand before he escapes to New Bedford.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or the Life and Narrative of Frederick Douglass; or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]):
    This abolitionist published the Narrative of [his] Life and three slave narratives, in which he related his fight with Mr. Covey.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry Louis Gates, Jr.):
    This literary critic edited The Bondwoman's Narrative for publication in 2002. This Harvard professor analyzed the title practice of wordplay in prominent works of African-American literature in The Signifying Monkey.

[B12] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man was so incensed in 1856 that he gathered a posse mostly composed of his sons and hacked and shot 5 men to death at Pottawatomie Creek. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Brown):
    Name this violent abolitionist whose death was the subject of a popular Civil War Song and who carried out a raid on Harper's Ferry.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    Brown's attack on Harper's Ferry was opposed by this other Abolitionist who thought armed insurrection was counterproductive. He wrote My Bondage and My Freedom about his escape from slavery.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert E. Lee):
    Once trapped in Harper's Ferry in the mismanaged raid, Brown was captured by this American general who later lost the battle of Gettysburg and surrendered at Appomattox courthouse.

[B13] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of this man's novels, George Tryon ends his engagement with Rena Walden after he discovers she is half-black. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Waddell Chesnutt):
    Name this NAACP activist and author of the novels The House Behind the Cedars and The Marrow of Tradition.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    Charles Chesnutt wrote a biography of this 19th century abolitionist, who wrote about his escape from slavery in an 1845 autobiography. He also published the North Star newspaper.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wife of His Youth"):
    This Charles Chesnutt short story ends with the light-skinned Ryder revealing to the Blue Veins Society that Liza Jane, the title character, was his wife when they were slaves.

[B14] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This speech points out that America's "poets, statesmen, and orators" easily work up a furor over the suppression of the Hungarian Revolution, but remain silent when faced with the bigger problems at home. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "What to the slave is the 4th of July?"):
    Name this 1852 address before the women of the Rochester Anti-Slavery Sewing Society, which
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]):
    This deliverer of the "What to the slave is the 4th of July?" speech wrote a memoir about his escape from slavery in Baltimore, which he expanded upon in My Bondage and My Freedom.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Church and Prejudice"):
    This shorter 1841 speech by Douglass consists of a series of anecdotes about racism in Christian services Douglass attended in both the South and the North. It turns a critical eye against people who "say they like colored men as well as any other, but in their proper place!"

[B15] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author appropriated the tune of Stephen Foster's minstrel song "Uncle Ned," transforming the lyrics into a celebration of his adventure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry "Box" Brown):
    Identify this slave, who, after being sundered from his wife and children, enlisted the aid of the store-keeper Samuel Smith in a scheme to ship himself from Richmond to Philadelphia.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey, if you're into referencing the identities that people rejected]):
    "Box" Brown's eager retelling of his personal story upset this abolitionist, who thought that it worsened the chances of future slaves. This founder of the North Star recounted his own escape in My Bondage and My Freedom.
  Part 3 (ans: The Bondswoman's Narrative):
    Henry Louis Gates arranged for the 2002 publication of this dark autobiography of the runaway slave Hannah Crafts. It includes Hannah's insane mulatto mistress, who dies of a brain aneurysm.

[B16] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Name these authors of slave narratives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    This orator who ran the abolitionist newspaper The North Star also wrote about his experiences working in a shipyard and as a caulker in Baltimore while serving Thomas Auld.
  Part 2 (ans: Harriet Jacobs):
    This woman wrote of her secret affair with Mr. Sands while serving the sexually predatory Dr. Flint in her Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl.
  Part 3 (ans: William Wells Brown [accept Charles Brockden Brown]):
    This rival of Frederick Douglass also wrote a slave narrative, but he is more famous for writing the first novel by an African American, Clotel. He shares his last name with the author of Edgar Huntly and Wieland.

[B17] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: With her sister, Tennie Claflin, she operated the first Wall Street brokerage run by women. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Victoria Woodhull [or Victoria Claflin]):
    Name this woman who is best known for being the first woman to run for the presidency of the United States, which she did in 1872 on the Equal Rights Party ticket.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Douglass):
    Victoria Woodhull chose this man as her running mate, even though he was not consulted before he was added to her ticket. For a time, he published a newspaper called The North Star.
  Part 3 (ans: Seneca Falls Convention):
    Douglass had earlier been present at this 1848 meeting convened by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott to discuss women's rights in a namesake town in upstate New York.

[B18] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about some slaves who successfully fled their masters, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Frederick Douglass [or Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]):
    This man recounted how he fled from masters like "slave breaker" Edward Covey in his Narrative Life . He'd later found The North Star newspaper.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry "Box" Brown):
    This man escaped from his bondage by hiding inside of a crate addressed to William A. Johnson of Philadelphia.
  Part 3 (ans: Harriet Ann Jacobs):
    This woman described how she had two children with a white lawyer named Samuel Tredwell Sawyer in Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl.
