=== STOCK CLUES: Richard Strauss ===
Tossup questions: 16 found, 85 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 29 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [or Richard Georg Strauss; prompt on Strauss]
  - The opening of an opera by this composer uses wide horn arpeggios and sighing string figures to represent lovemaking between two characters, one of whom stops clocks in the night because of her fear of aging.
  - An unseen character is represented by a broken D minor chord in an opera by this composer that uses a motif built from a polytonal E major and C-sharp major chord.
  - Two lovers sing the duet "Mit ihren augen voll Tranen"  in act two of an opera by this composer before being interrupted by the lecherous Baron Ochs .
  - The title character of an opera by this composer performs the "Dance of the Seven Veils" before kissing the head of John the Baptist.
  - For 10 points, name this German composer of Der Rosenkavalier and Salome. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
  - A work by this composer is paired with a lecture about "Humor in Music" in an educational album by Leonard Bernstein.
  - Wind trills representing a clock striking 7 a.m. introduce a triple fugue in a piece by this composer built from themes depicting the moods of a mother, father, and child.
  - Herbert von Karajan's recording of a massive, 22-section work by this composer was the first to be pressed on CD.
  - Tubas playing in parallel fifths represent critics of this composer in the "adversaries" movement of an orchestral work that ends with "The Hero's Retirement From This World and Completion." A piece by this composer begins with an ascending "C G C" trumpet fanfare depicting a sunrise.
  - For 10 points, name this German composer of tone poems like An Alpine Symphony and Also Sprach Zarathustra. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss AND Hugo von Hofmannsthal [prompt on Strauss in place of "Richard Strauss"]
  - These two people's clash between tradition and novelty is reflected in stubborn characters arguing over a "tasteless" desert island setting.
  - These two people reworked Beethoven's incidental music for The Ruins of Athens and scored a pantomime-ballet about Potiphar's wife, Josephslegende.
  - In later works by these two people, Aithra's omniscient seashell foresees Menelas murdering Helen, Mandryka smashes a glass of water to marry the title character, and a barren empress regains her shadow. [PWR]
  - This (*) composer-librettist duo of the symbolic operas The Egyptian Helen and Die Frau ohne Schatten co-founded the annual Salzburg Festival with Max Reinhardt and was at odds over the flirty singer of "Grossmachtige Prinzessin," Zerbinetta, whose comedy troupe interrupts an opera-within-an-opera.
  - For 10 points, what composer and poet collaborated on six operas including Arabella and Ariadne auf Naxos? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [or Richard Georg Strauss; prompt on Strauss]
  - This composer's oboe concerto begins with a "D, E, D, E" cello figure that is echoed by the "B-flat, C, B-flat, C" cello figure that begins the next movement.
  - A fairy tale inspired one of this composer's very last pieces, an F-major "duet-concertino" for clarinet, bassoon, and strings.
  - This composer reluctantly partnered with Joseph Gregor for the opera Friedenstag  on the advice of Stefan Zweig , with whom this composer wrote the ill-fated opera Die schweigsame Frau .
  - This composer asked if he or Mozart consciously wrote Aryan music in an intercepted letter that led to his dismissal from the Reichsmusikkammer .
  - The day after the Vienna Opera House was bombed, this composer began writing Metamorphosen.
  - For 10 points, name this composer who introduced himself to occupying Allied soldiers as "the composer of Salome and Der Rosenkavalier." [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [or Richard Georg Strauss; prompt on Strauss]
  - Seeing himself as the last of one tradition, this composer said "I am the last mountain of a large mountain range. [PWR]
  - After me come the flatlands," while serving in a post in which he advocated for stronger copyright protections.
  - Two repetitions of C-sharp - E - D in the brass open a piece by this composer that was the subject of a payment dispute over patriotic lyrics written by Robert Lubahn. [PWR]
  - This composer captured his disillusionment by quoting the funeral march from the Eroica symphony in a piece for 23 solo strings. [PWR]
  - This composer wrote his Olympic Hymn for the (*) 1936 Summer Olympics. [PWR]
  - In part to protect his Jewish daughter-in-law Alice, this composer served as president of the Reichsmusikkammer.
  - For 10 points, name this German composer of Metamorphosen and Four Last Songs who depicted a sunrise in his tone poem Thus Spoke Zarathustra. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss
  - George Szell once described how this man conducted "as if he were waiting for the card game that came after the performance," and noted that he checked his watch while conducting the Fidelio Overture. [PWR]
  - This conductor's career began at the Meiningen Court Orchestra, where he served as an assistant to Hans von Bulow.
  - This man's wife, Pauline de Ahna, sang the role of Tannhuaser's Elisabeth at his first conducting appearance at the Bayreuth Festival.
  - This man conducted a 1922 performance of Don Giovanni at an annual music festival he created with Max Reinhardt and Hugo von (*) Hofmannsthal, the Salzburg Festival. [PWR]
  - He remained in Germany during the Nazi regime in order to protect his Jewish daughter-in-law and was later appointed head of the Reichsmusikkammer by Joseph Goebbels.
  - For 10 points, name this conductor who recorded his own compositions Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks and Don Juan, but not Also Sprach Zarathustra. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: incidental music [prompt on music written for a play; accept Richard Strauss's incidental music for Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme, incidental music for Peer Gynt, or incidental music for A Midsummer Night's Dream]
  - A "recomposed" Lully minuet appears in a set of music in this genre that premiered with Ariadne auf Naxos.
  - Johan Halvorsen posthumously published a set of music in this genre whose composer resented the time limits that his Swedish employer put on its movements. [PWR]
  - This genre includes a suite whose dinner music finale quotes Don Quixote and Der Rosenkavalier to mirror Monsieur Jourdain eating mutton and lark. [PWR]
  - A flute in 6/8  plays (*) "B, G-sharp, F-sharp, E" and ascends back to B to open the first of two suites of music in this genre, establishing a namesake mood.
  - An overture that mimics a hee-hawing donkey and fairies often precedes a suite of music in this genre that includes a famous "Wedding March." For 10 points, Grieg and Mendelssohn wrote what type of music to accompany plays like Peer Gynt and A Midsummer Night's Dream? [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
  - Cellist Rudolf Leopold arranged a piece by this composer for its original string septet instrumentation, and it forms a chromatic bass line in its opening four chords: E minor, A-flat major in 2nd inversion, G minor 7 in 2nd inversion, A major in 1st inversion. [PWR]
  - The rhythm "8th rest, 8th note, then a rest-note-note triplet," first heard in thirds by muted strings and then by timpani, represents a faltering heartbeat in a piece by this composer that premiered with his (*) Burleske for piano and orchestra in D minor.
  - Karl Bohm and Paul Sacher  commissioned a 23-string suite from this composer so he could go to a spa near Zurich.
  - He wrote "In Memoriam" over a quotation from Eroica's Funeral March in that piece, Metamorphosen.
  - For 10 points, what late Romantic German composer of Aus Italien  quoted his Death and Transfiguration in the tone poem A Hero's Life? [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
  - An opera by this composer begins with a rehearsal of a string sextet by Flamand, who argues against Olivier that music is more powerful than words.
  - This composer wrote a rondo beginning with the words "Als ein Gott" to conclude a 12-minute-long coloratura aria in which Zerbinetta advises another woman about getting over heartbreak; that aria is "Grossmachtige Prinzessin" (GROSS-maysh-tig-uh print-SESS-in).
  - In another opera by him, Octavian and Sophie sing the love duet "Ist ein traum" after the Marschallin bids Octavian farewell.
  - An opera seria and a commedia dell'arte play must be performed simultaneously in the frame story to his opera Ariadne auf Naxos.
  - Hugo von Hofmannsthal often collaborated with, for 10 points, what composer of Der Rosenkavalier? [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
  - In an opera by this composer, a single high note on the double bass accompanies a scene where a woman awaits the executioner's sword before she is crushed by shields. [PWR]
  - A love affair first introduced in Act II with an oboe and horn duet in one of this composer's operas is later celebrated by a trio of female voices that sing "Ha mirs gelob't." This composer shocked audiences by having a woman demand that an executioner use a silver platter to bring her a dead man's (*) head before she performs the erotic "Dance of the Seven Veils"; that woman falls in love with John the Baptist against her father Herod's wishes. [PWR]
  - The title breeches-role character of another opera by this composer is allowed by the Marschallin to pursue the hand of Sophie.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Salome and Der Rosenkavalier. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss
  - In one work by this man, the title character's sister is seen giving a man the key to the room of an engaged woman by her fiance, leading to false accusations of infidelity.
  - In another work, Zerbinetta asks the title character, "Are we not both women?" before proceeding to outshine her with a coloratura aria.
  - This composer of Arabella also penned an opera in which the title character performs a striptease to her father-in-law, the Dance of the Seven Veils, and in return receives the head of John the Baptist on a silver platter.
  - Ariadne auf Naxos and Salome are, for 10 points, operas by this German composer of Der Rosenkavalier and Elektra. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: An Alpine Symphony [or Eine Alpensinfonie; or Richard Strauss's Opus 64]
  - A recurring theme in this work consists of rising sixteenth note-dotted eighth note pattern from a low E-flat to a G.
  - Its first section opens with a descending B-flat minor scale in which each note is held by the strings until the entire scale is heard simultaneously.
  - In its thirteenth section, an unusual passage for solo oboe slowly builds up with the return of many previous themes into a triumphant C major version of the "sun theme".
  - Like its composer's Op. 35, this piece has the oboe and E-flat clarinet flutter-tongue to depict sheep grazing in a pasture.
  - This work depicts a hunting party using 12 offstage horns, and its score also calls for a heckelphone, a wind machine and a thunder machine.
  - A march for the lower strings with many upward leaps suggestive of climbing appears in its third section, "The Ascent." For 10 points, name this musical depiction of a day in a European mountain range, a work by Richard Strauss that despite its name is actually a tone poem. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss
  - Timothy Jackson argued this man's quotation of the funeral march from the Eroica Symphony is a reference to Beethoven's original dedication of that piece to Napoleon. [PWR]
  - The premiere of another piece by him was accompanied with thousands of white pigeons. [PWR]
  - He was fired from a post he held for a letter sent to a frequent collaborator that said "For me there are only two kinds of people, those with talent and those with none," but this man still composed the (*)Olympic Hymn when his country hosted the game two years later. [PWR]
  - The Nazis attacked this man for writing an opera based on a play by the questionably Jewish Ben Jonson, and the librettist for Die Schweigsame Frau was Stefan Zweig.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Metamorphosen who worked with Hugo von Hofmannthal on operas like Elektra and Der Rosenkavalier. [GIVE]

[T14] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]
  - In a tone poem by this composer, a loud D sharp that leads into an E, played by the violas, denotes the passing of an old man. [PWR]
  - Near the end of a work written for 23 strings, this composer quotes the funeral march from the Eroica Symphony. [PWR]
  - The bombing of Dresden inspired this composer's Metamorphosen. [PWR]
  - In his dying moments, this composer is said to have praised the accuracy of his (*) Tod und Verklarung in depicting death. [PWR]
  - Another of this composer's tone poems uses a wind machine and 20 horns and depicts the "Ascent" and "Descent" of a mountain.
  - A more famous one ends with the "Song of the Night Wanderer" and begins with the trumpet playing the motif of C-G-C.
  - For 10 points, name the composer of An Alpine Symphony and Also Sprach Zarathustra. [GIVE]

[T15] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [prompt on partial answer]
  - One of this composer's works ends with a violin cantilena followed by a trumpet quotation of an opening three note motif from another of his works.
  - This composer opened a work with a descending B flat minor scale for the bassoon, each note of which is held out by the orchestra. [PWR]
  - The sixth and final part of one of his works and is titled for a "Flight from the World and Fulfillment of Life" and follows a section about the title figure's (*) "Works of Peace." Thunder and wind machines are required for another of his works which has movements like "On Flowering Meadows" and "On the Summit." This composer wrote Ein Heldenleben and An Alpine Symphony as well as a work with sections like "The Convalescent" and "Song of the Night Wanderer" which begins with C, G, C in the brass; that work opens the film 2001: A Space Odyssey. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Also Sprach Zarathustra. [GIVE]

[T16] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Richard Strauss [prompt on "Strauss"]
  - Luigi Denza successfully sued this composer for incorporating Denza's song "Funiculi, Funicula" in the last movement of one of his tone poems.
  - In another tone poem by this composer, a descending seventh in the trombones and tuba pronounce the death sentence of the title character, after which the D clarinet squeals and a flute trills as he is hanged.
  - That piece by this composer of Aus Italien depicts the title character with a lilting theme in F major in 6/8 for solo horn, and opens with a "once upon a time" theme.
  - Another piece by this composer has a fully chromatic fugue in its "Of Science" movement and opens with a C-G-C motif depicting sunrise.
  - That tone poem is based on a work of Friedrich Nietzsche's.
  - For 10 points, name this German composer of Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks and Also Sprach Zarathustra. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Patrice Chereau's last work was a production of this opera for the 2013 Aix-en-Provence ("ex on proh-VAHNSE") Festival, which the Met revived in 2022 with Nina Stemme ("STEM-muh") and Lise Davidsen ("LEE-suh DAH-vid-sen") as its two central sisters. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elektra (by Richard Strauss)):
    Name this opera that begins with the four notes "D, down to A, up to long F, D," representing the title character's father, and ends as she triumphantly dances herself to death.
  Part 2 (ans: libretto [or the text; or translations; accept lyrics; accept surtitles or supertitles; accept subtitles; prompt on titles or Met Titles]):
    In Chereau's production of Elektra, this element of the opera is projected onto the set instead of its typical location above the stage. At the Met, this element is shown on a screen on the seat in front of you.
  Part 3 (ans: Wales [or Cymru; prompt on United Kingdom or UK; prompt on Great Britain] (The unnamed soprano is Gwyneth Jones.)):
    Chereau's centenary production of the Ring cycle featured a soprano from this country as Brunnhilde. The Song Prize is awarded alongside the Main Prize at this country's Singer of the World Competition.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A prominent motif in this work, "F - B-flat - C - D - high D - C," is introduced first by the brass. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Death and Transfiguration [or Tod und Verklarung]):
    Name this tone poem, which opens with a "heartbeat" theme, where triplets on the dyad E-flat - G are marked by frequent gaps within. The composer of this work quoted the aforementioned motif in his Four Last Songs.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]):
    This composer of Death and Transfiguration later quoted that "transfiguration motif" in his Four Last Songs. He also wrote the tone poems An Alpine Symphony and Also Sprach Zarathustra.
  Part 3 (ans: Tristan und Isolde [or Tristan and Isolde]):
    Strauss's name for Death and Transfiguration was influenced by this non-Strauss opera, which contained a prelude and an aria named "Love-Death and Transfiguration." The chord named for one of this opera's title characters consists of the notes F, B, D-sharp, and G-sharp.

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a newspaper review, Cesar Cui ("kew-EE") said that the defects of this man's opera Boris Godunov revealed its "indiscriminating, self-complacent, hasty method of composition." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Modest (Petrovich) Mussorgsky):
    Name this Russian composer of Pictures at an Exhibition.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei (Vasilyevich) Rachmaninoff):
    Cui's review of this composer's first symphony claimed that it sounded like a student in a conservatory in Hell writing on the subject of the Seven Plagues of Egypt. That disastrous premiere led this man to quit composing for two years, until he received hypnosis therapy from Nikolai Dahl.
  Part 3 (ans: Symphonia Domestica, Op. 53 (by Richard Strauss) [or Sinfonia Domestica, Op. 53]):
    Cui said that giving musicians blank paper and letting them play whatever they wish would be better than this four-movement tone poem, whose three opening themes represent a father, mother, and child.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Richard Wagner once wrote to a friend, "This Persian Hafez is the greatest poet that ever lived and wrote poems. If you don't get yourself the poems immediately I will thoroughly despise you." For 10 points each, answer some questions about Hafez and classical music.
  Part 1 (ans: Karol Szymanowski ("shim-in-OV-skee") [or Karol Maciej Szymanowski]):
    This composer wrote two song cycles collectively titled Love Songs of Hafez. This Polish composer also composed his Symphony No. 3 "Song of the Night" and the opera King Roger.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [or Richard Georg Strauss; prompt on Strauss]):
    The lied "Schwung" from this composer's Gesange des Orients is based on text from Hafez. This composer's contributions to lieder include the Four Last Songs.
  Part 3 (ans: Johannes Brahms):
    At least fifteen of this composer's lieder, including "Bitteres zu sagen denkst du," are based on poems of Hafez. This composer's other lieder include his namesake Lullaby from his Wiegenlied.

[B5] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this operetta, Rosalind convinces a party that she is Hungarian by singing a "Czardas." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Die  Fledermaus [or  The  Bat ]):
    Name this operetta in which the protagonist has his watch stolen by his wife at Prince Orlofsky's ball.
  Part 2 (ans: Johann  Strauss II [accept Johann  Strauss Junior or Johann  Strauss the  Younger , prompt on  Strauss , do NOT accept or prompt on "Johann Strauss I" or "Richard Strauss"]):
    Die Fledermaus is by this Austrian composer, who also wrote the waltz By the Beautiful Blue Danube .
  Part 3 (ans:  merry [or  lustig e; accept  The  Merry  War or  The  Merry  Widow or  Die  lustige  witwe or  Der  lustige  Krieg ]):
    A Strauss operetta involving the Genoese colonel Umberto Spinola is titled for this kind of "war." In another operetta partly titled for this adjective, Hanna sings the "Vilja ("VILL-yah") Song."

[B6] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Gustav Mahler unusually included these instruments in the orchestra for his Sixth Symphony, in which he called them "the last earthly sounds heard...by the departing spirit on the mountain top." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cowbells [or Herdenglocken]):
    Name these percussion instruments, which Mahler used to create an idyllic atmosphere in his Sixth and Seventh symphonies.
  Part 2 (ans: An Alpine Symphony [or Eine Alpensinfonie] (by Richard Strauss)):
    The cowbell gets its time to shine again in this tone poem, which also calls for a "wind machine" and "thundersheet" in the section "Thunderstorm and Tempest, Descent."
  Part 3 (ans: John Milton Cage, Jr.):
    Cowbells also appear in the First Construction in Metal by this American composer, who called for no instrument at all to be played in his composition 4'33".

[B7] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Despite its name, this work is [emphasize] not its composer's final work, as he wrote and dedicated a piece that he called his "last rose" to the Moravian soprano Maria Jeritza ("HAIR-it-sa") two months later. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Four Last Songs [or Vier Letzte Lieder]):
    Name this song cycle that quotes a motif from its composer's tone poem Death and Transfiguration after the soprano sings its final words, "Is this, perhaps, death?"
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]):
    This composer's Four Last Songs describes how summer lingers on "by the roses" before "slowly it closes its large / eyes grown weary." This composer also wrote Also Sprach Zarathustra.
  Part 3 (ans: theme and variations [accept any answer containing variations]):
    Many composers have adapted Thomas Moore's poem "The Last Rose of Summer" into pieces using this musical form. Robert Schumann exclaimed, "Hats off, gentlemen; a genius!" in response to one of these pieces by Frederic Chopin for piano.

[B8] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Brahms's G major first piece in this genre uses themes from his art songs Regenlied ["RAY-gun-leet"] and Nachklang ["NAKH-klung"] in an example of cyclic form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: violin sonata [or sonata for violin and piano; or sonata for piano and violin; or sonata for violin; prompt on sonata, do NOT accept or prompt on "sonata for solo violin"]):
    Name this genre, which Brahms wrote later examples of in A major and D minor. Grieg considered his C minor third piece in this genre to have a "broader horizon" than his "Norwegian" second one in G major.
  Part 2 (ans: Cesar Franck ("FRONK")):
    A slow Recitativo-Fantasia movement forms the centerpiece of the cyclic form in this Belgian organist and composer's massive A major violin sonata, written for the wedding of Eugene Ysaye ["oo-ZHEN ee-ZYE"].
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]):
    This composer's E-flat major violin sonata contains some cyclical elements such as having a dotted rhythm followed by a triplet. This composer's tone poems include Ein Heldenleben ["ine HELL-dun-lay-bun"] and Also Sprach Zarathustra ["ull-ZO shprakh tsah-rah-TUS-trah"].

[B9] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A descending A-minor scale represents one of these events in the second phase of An Alpine Symphony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sunrise [accept dawn or daybreak; accept morning]):
    Name this type of event. In the opening of a tone poem by the same composer, an ascending root, fifth, and octave in the brass over a sustained root in the bass represents one of these events.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss ("ree-kard shtrowss") [or Richard Georg Strauss]):
    Those evocations of sunrise are part of this German composer's pieces An Alpine Symphony and Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
  Part 3 (ans: Pietro Mascagni ("mah-SKAHN-yee") (The piece is the intermezzo from Cavalleria rusticana.)):
    Another brass-heavy evocation of sunrise that premiered in the 1890s is this composer's "Inno del sol" from his Japan-set opera Iris. An oft-excerpted orchestral piece by this composer accompanies a deserted town square during Easter in an 1890 opera.

[B10] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Leonard Bernstein's breakthrough performance in November 1943, when he conducted the New York Philharmonic after the scheduled conductor, Bruno Walter, became ill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Don Quixote (by Richard Strauss) [or Don Quixote: Fantastic Variations on a Theme of Knightly Character; or Don Quixote: Phantastische Variationen uber ein Thema ritterlichen Charakters]):
    Before the concert, Walter briefly explained a few difficult passages of this set of "fantastic variations" to Bernstein from his sickbed. Bleating sheep are represented using flutter-tongued horns in this tone poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Carnegie Hall):
    The concert took place at this famous venue in Midtown Manhattan. Originally called "Music Hall," this venue was later named after its benefactor, a steel industry titan and philanthropist.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Schumann [prompt on Schumann]):
    The first piece on the program was this German composer's Manfred overture. Bernstein made numerous recordings of this composer's four symphonies, the first of which is nicknamed "Spring."

[B11] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera's composer described Aino Ackte as 'the one and only' interpreter of the title role, though it was created by Marie Wittich. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salome [SAH-lo-may]):
    Name this opera. A polytonal chord made up of an F-sharp major chord over an A dominant 7th chord plays as the title character kisses a freshly severed head, after which they are crushed to death on the orders of their horrified stepfather.
  Part 2 (ans: clarinet):
    Salome opens with an ambiguous scale moving between C-sharp major and G major played on this instrument. After the Dance of the Seven Veils, this instrument plays trills dissonant with the vocal line as Salome requests the head of Jochanaan [yo-KA-na-an].
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Strauss):
    Salome is an opera written by this composer of Elektra and Der Rosenkavalier, as well as the tone poem Also sprach Zarathustra.

[B12] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer wrote a set of Four Last Songs primarily to texts by Hermann Hesse shortly before he died. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]):
    Name this German composer of the tone poems Don Juan and Also Sprach Zarathustra.
  Part 2 (ans: Jessye Norman):
    This recently-deceased Black soprano won a Gramophone Award for her recording of Four Last Songs. The pioneering Leontyne ("LEE-un-teen") Price inspired her to pursue singing, and she started her career in Europe because of limited opportunities in the US.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Schumann):
    Norman was also renowned for her performances of this composer's art songs, which include his Liederkreis ("LEE-der-KRICE") and Dichterliebe ("DIKH-tur-LEE-buh"), both of which were composed during his 1840 "year of song."

[B13] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the years before his death, Elvis Presley used the beginning of this piece to open his concerts and live albums, such as the multi-platinum album Aloha from Hawaii Via Satellite. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Also sprach Zarathustra ("ALL-zoh shprock tsah-rah-TOOS-trah") [or Thus Spake Zarathustra; or Thus Spoke Zarathustra]):
    Name this tone poem that contains the movements "The Convalescent" and "Song of the Night Wanderer." Its sixth movement, which features a fugue that contains every chromatic pitch, is called "Of Science."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]):
    Also sprach Zarathustra is a tone poem by this Late Romantic German composer of Ein Heldenleben ("yne HEL-din-lay-bin").
  Part 3 (ans: B major AND C major [do not accept any minor keys]):
    Also sprach Zarathustra ends with the high winds and strings playing a chord in one of these two keys, which is juxtaposed with the low strings plucking the other key's tonic. Throughout the piece, these two major keys represent the clash between humanity and the universe.

[B14] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the first scene of this work, the fifth maid is taken to be flogged after she shows sympathy for the wild-looking title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elektra):
    Name this opera. The title character of this opera names a dissonant bitonal chord that implies both E major and C# major.
  Part 2 (ans: the head of John the Baptist [or the head of Jochanaan; prompt on partial]):
    The "most sickening chord in all opera," which is similarly polytonal, plays when this object is kissed by the lead of another opera by the composer of Elektra. An emerald, peacocks, and a veil from the Temple are rejected as gifts in favor of this object.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on surname alone]):
    This composer collaborated with Hugo von Hoffmansthal on Elektra and Der Rosenkavalier, but wrote his own libretto after an Oscar Wilde play for his opera Salome.

[B15] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 1923 film adaptation of this play starring Alla Nazimova is often considered to be one of the first art films made in the US. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Salome):
    Name this Oscar Wilde play that was adapted into an opera in which a highly dissonant polytonal chord plays as the title character kisses Jochanaan's ("yo-HAH-nan's") head.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]):
    The opera Salome is by this German composer of Der Rosenkavalier ("dare ROH-zen-KAH-vuh-leer") and Also Sprach Zarathustra ("ALL-zoh shprock tsah-rah-TOOS-trah").
  Part 3 (ans: Aubrey Beardsley):
    This artist's black-and-white illustrations of Salome include The Peacock Skirt, which shows a towering Salome wearing the title garment and speaking with a timid youth. This Aestheticist artist also illustrated the magazine he co-founded, The Yellow Book.

[B16] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov mistakenly believed that this song was an Italian folk song when he included it in his "Neapolitanskaya Pesenka." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Funiculi, Funicula"):
    Name this song by Luigi Denza famously recorded by the Three Tenors. The tone poem Aus Italien quotes this song in the "Scenes from Neapolitan life" section.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [or Richard Georg Strauss]):
    This composer also thought "Funiculi, Funicula" was an folk song when he used it for Aus Italien, for which Denza sued him. Octavian presents a rose to Sophie on behalf of Baron Ochs in this composer's opera Der Rosenkavalier.
  Part 3 (ans: Hugo von Hofmannsthal):
    This librettist worked with Richard Strauss on many of his opera including Der Rosenklavier and Ariadne. Strauss often violently criticized this man's work, and Arnold Schonberg described one of this author's letters to Strauss as "in the vein of a jilted girl writing to the man she still loves."

[B17] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two politicians in this opera exchange insults in alphabetical order and teach prince Go-go to ride a rocking-horse, and scenes in this opera open with car horns, doorbells, and alarm clocks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Le Grand Macabre):
    Name this "anti-anti-opera" in which the prince of Hell, Nekrotzar, presides over chaotic events including Astradamors' killing of Mescalina and eventually shrinks into oblivion during a "mirror canon."
  Part 2 (ans: Gyorgy Ligeti):
    This Hungarian composer wrote Le Grand Macabre, Atmospheres, Lux Aeterna, and Poeme symphonique, a work for 100 metronomes meant to showcase "micropolyphony."
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Strauss):
    Ligeti's Atmospheres and Lux Aeterna were featured in 2001: A Space Odyssey along with a rising "C-G-C" brass motif from this German Romantic composer's tone poem Also Sprach Zarathustra.

[B18] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the prologue to this opera, two pieces of entertainment are ordered to be performed simultaneously to leave time for fireworks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ariadne auf Naxos [or Ariadne on Naxos]):
    Name this opera that juxtaposes the main mythical plot with comic commentary by a burlesque troupe, climaxing in Zerbinetta's aria "Grossmachtiger Prinzessin."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on "Strauss"]):
    Ariadne auf Naxos was created by this German composer, who also wrote Salome. He returned to the opera-within-an-opera format in Capriccio.
  Part 3 (ans: Jessye Norman [or Jessye May Norman]):
    Among the most acclaimed interpreters of the role of Ariadne is this African American dramatic soprano. She also made a heralded recording of Strauss's Four Last Songs, performing with Kurt Masur and the Leipzig Gewandhaus (geh-VAHND-howss) Orchestra.

[B19] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A solemn ascending C-G-C motif in the trumpets opens one tone poem by this composer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss alone]):
    Name this composer of the tone poems Also sprach Zarathustra and Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks.
  Part 2 (ans: Ein Heldenleben [or A Hero's Life]):
    Strauss quotes from Till Eulenspiegel in the Works of Peace section of this autobiographical tone poem. He depicts the Munich critic Doktor Dehring with ominous consecutive fifths in the lower wind and brass.
  Part 3 (ans: E-flat major):
    Strauss used this 'heroic' key for Ein Heldenleben, as it is the same key Beethoven used for his Eroica symphony and Emperor Piano Concerto.

[B20] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Name some things about the representation of Jews in operas, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nabucco):
    Giuseppe Verdi wrote this opera about the title king's assault on the city of Jerusalem. This opera's main character is struck ill in Act II, but his prayer to Jehovah in the aria Dio di Giuda is
  Part 2 (ans: Moses und Aron):
    This incredibly eerie twelve-tone opera was written in response to rising anti-Semitism in pre-war Germany. In this unfinished opera's second act, one of the two title characters meets with seventy elders at the Mount of Revelation.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on "Strauss"]):
    This composer wrote the then-salacious opera Salome ["SAL-oh-may"], in which several Jews argue about the nature of God. Austrian-Jewish writer Stefan Zweig wrote the libretto for this composer's opera The Silent Woman.

[B21] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This duet opens with lyrics about the "jasmine white" under a "leafy dome." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Flower Duet" [or Duo des fleurs; or Sous le dome epais]):
    Name this duet for sopranos from Leo Delibes's Lakme, which is most commonly titled for the objects that Lakme and Malika have gone near a river to obtain.
  Part 2 (ans: Carmen):
    In the first act of this Georges Bizet opera, the title gypsy throws a flower to the Corporal of the Dragoons, Don Jose ("zho-SAY").
  Part 3 (ans: Salome (by Richard Strauss)):
    This opera's title character promises the love-struck Narraboth a "little green flower" in exchange for his help. It opens with a rising clarinet scale and the "obsessed" title character's leitmotif, and ends with a "sickening chord" framed by C-sharp major.

[B22] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This psychologist headed the committee that investigated the "famous case" of Clever Hans, eventually appointing Oskar Pfunget, who solved the case. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carl Stumpf):
    Name this German psychologist known for his research on music, partly covered in his works Tonpsychologie and The Origins of Music.
  Part 2 (ans: Petrushka):
    The Origins of Music was published in 1911, the year the Ballets Russes premiered this ballet featuring polyrhythmic textures and irregular, changing metres, which Stumpf had ascribed to indigenous music cultures. A well-known tone cluster from this ballet is composed of a C major triad and an F-sharp triad.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Strauss [or: Richard Georg Strauss]):
    1911 also saw the premier of this composer's Der Rosenkavalier whose "complex tonality borders on the polytonality that Stumpf ascribed to an underdeveloped appreciation of harmonic function."

[B23] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first-ever test pressing of a compact disc was of a Herbert von Karajan-conducted recording of this piece, in which a drumroll representing the "calm before the storm" gives way to upper woodwinds and pizzicato strings suggesting raindrops. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: An Alpine Symphony [or Eine Alpensinfonie]):
    Name this symphonic poem in which four trombones playing in fourths and fifths present a "peak motif," and very large instrumentation, including organ and wind machine, depict a raging tempest assailing mountain climbers making their descent.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [or Richard Georg Strauss]):
    The "peak motif" in this composer's An Alpine Symphony is very similar to the opening of his Also Sprach Zarathustra.
  Part 3 (ans: D clarinet):
    in Strauss's tone poem Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks, a horn and a clarinet tuned to this key represent the title prankster. The theme played by the clarinet named for this key is distorted as Till is hauled off to the gallows, representing his death-wails.

[B24] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece's section "Of Science" features a chromatic fugue played by the cellos and double basses. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thus Spoke Zarathustra [or Also sprach Zarathustra; or Thus Spake Zarathustra]):
    Name this composition whose initial "Sunrise" section features a rising C-G-C brass fanfare. It concludes with the "Song of the Night Wanderer."
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on Strauss]):
    Thus Spoke Zarathustra was written by this German composer, who also wrote tone poems about Don Juan and Macbeth. His operas include Der Rosenkavalier.
  Part 3 (ans: Aus Italien [or From Italy]):
    Strauss composed this early symphonic poem after taking a trip recommended by Brahms. Its third movement is "On the Beach at Sorrento," and its last movement incorporates the popular song "Funiculi, funicula."

[B25] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's works for the Nazi government include a hymn written for the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Strauss [prompt on "Strauss"]):
    Name this German composer whose tone poems include Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks and the Nietzsche-inspired Also Sprach Zarathustra.
  Part 2 (ans: Ein Heldenleben [or A Hero's Life]):
    Strauss copiously quotes his earlier works in the "Works of Peace" movement of this massive tone poem, in which a solo violin depicts Strauss's wife and squawking woodwinds depict his critics.
  Part 3 (ans: oboe):
    A wartime encounter with the American soldier John de Lancie inspired Strauss to write a concerto for this instrument. Tomaso Albinoni wrote over a dozen of the earliest known concerti for this instrument.
