=== STOCK CLUES: Oleanna ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2017 Scattergories (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Oleanna
  - A character in this play tells a story about a pilot who crashes his plane because he is so worked up with guilt about the fact that he let his mind drift while flying. [PWR]
  - A character in this play has written a book about "the virtual warehousing of the young" and "the curse of modern education." This play ends with a character saying "Yes. [PWR]
  - That's right" after another character nearly attacks her with a chair.
  - This play gets its title from a (*) folk song about a Norwegian composer's failed utopian community.
  - At the beginning of this play, its main characters discuss the meaning of the phrase "term of art" after one of them has a phone conversation with his wife in which they talk about the word "easement," because they are buying a new house.
  - The only two characters in this play are John and Carol, who frequently interrupt each other.
  - For 10 points, name this David Mamet play in which a professor is accused of sexual harassment by a student. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about allegations of sexual improprieties in American plays.
  Part 1 (ans: Lillian (Florence) Hellman):
    This author of The Little Foxes wrote about Mary Tilford, who falsely accuses two teachers of carrying on an illicit lesbian affair, in her play The Children's Hour.
  Part 2 (ans: Doubt):
    In this play by John Patrick Shanley, Sister Aloysius accuses a priest of having an inappropriate relationship with an African-American altar boy, but the truth of the allegations remains uncertain even after the priest admits "There are things I can't say."
  Part 3 (ans: Oleanna (by David Mamet)):
    In this two-person play, Carol accuses her egotistical professor John of sexual harassment and assault, culminating in John violently beating her in his office as his life unravels.

[B2] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play takes its title from a Norwegian folk song and was described by its author as a reaction to Clarence Thomas's Supreme Court confirmation hearings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oleanna):
    Name this play that ends when John, a professor, breaks down and violently assaults his student, Carol, with a chair. The plot involves Carol accusing John of sexual harassment.
  Part 2 (ans: David Mamet):
    This playwright of Oleanna wrote a drama about a real estate salesman who steals a client list in Glengarry Glen Ross.
  Part 3 (ans: Chinese restaurant [prompt on restaurant]):
    The first act of Glengarry Glen Ross is set in one of these locations, which the real estate salesmen frequent. Ricky Roma refers to one of these places using a racial slur near the end of the play.

[B3] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The third act of this play jumps 75 years forward and features its cast performing a Gilbert and Sullivan-esque musical pageant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play):
    Name this Anne Washburn play in which Quincy, Susannah, Gibson, and other survivors of an apocalyptic event gather together to attempt to recount the plot and dialogue of the "Cape Feare" episode of The Simpsons.
  Part 2 (ans: Washington, D.C. [or D.C.]):
    Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play was premiered by this city's Wooly Mammoth Theater Company. Its residents may watch contemporary Shakespeare adaptations at the Folger and larger productions at the Kennedy Center.
  Part 3 (ans: David Mamet [or David Alan Mamet] [the play is Oleanna]):
    This playwright's November follows President Charles Smith over one day at the White House. He is better known for a two-character play in which John loses his chance at tenure after Carol reports him for sexual harassment.

[B4] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, John says that higher education is "something-other-than-useful" and recalls someone telling him that the rich copulate less often than the poor, but take off more clothes when they do. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oleanna):
    Name this play in which Carol accuses her professor John of sexual harassment and attempted rape after he offers to raise her grade to an "A" if she keeps meeting with him in his office to help her "understand."
  Part 2 (ans: American Buffalo):
    In this other play by the author of Oleanna, Teach hits Bobby over the head with the "dead pig sticker" after Fletcher fails to arrive at Don's Resale Shop, thus foiling the group's plan to rob a customer's coin collection.
  Part 3 (ans: David Alan Mamet):
    This American playwright of Sexual Perversity in Chicago wrote Oleanna and American Buffalo.
