=== STOCK CLUES: Guernica ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: bombing of Guernica [accept Operation Rugen until read]
  - A man who wrote a book about this event, titling it for a location's "tree," later died in a jeep crash in Myanmar.
  - For breaking the story of this event, British reporter George Steer was later honored by having a street named after him.
  - A leader of it insisted it was actually directed at a bridge over the Mundaca River, and President Roman Herzog would apologize for it sixty years later.
  - Three days after this event, Emilio Mola's forces moved in and calculated extremely low death totals caused by it.
  - This event, as part of Operation Rugen, was carried out by the Condor Legion, possibly as a training exercise for future Luftwaffe operations.
  - For 10 points, name this notorious 1937 bombing of a Basque town during the Spanish Civil War. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In the aftermath of this action, officials claimed that it was done to appease news crews complaining of the poor optics of a horse's ass appearing behind a speaker's head. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: covering the tapestry of Guernica at the United Nations headquarters):
    Identify this action taken with a blue tarp before a February 2003 PowerPoint presentation whose first slide claimed that a country was "failing to disarm."
  Part 2 (ans: Colin Powell [or Colin Luther Powell]):
    The Guernica tapestry was more likely covered to remove any antiwar messaging present while this then-Secretary of State argued for declaration of war on Iraq.
  Part 3 (ans: London Underground [accept the Tube; prompt on London; prompt on answers indicating trains or subways in London]):
    Powell's presentation also warned of bioterrorism plots, citing the Wood Green ricin plot targeting this system. More than 50 people died from a series of terrorist bombings against this system on July 7, 2005.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two women in black-and-white are seated against a red background in this artist's painting The Conversation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dora Maar [or Henriette Theodora Markovitch]):
    Name this artist who appears with yellow skin and block arms in a 1937 portrait. A man who had previously mused over Marie-Therese Walter created a series of this artist weeping.
  Part 2 (ans: Guernica [or Gernika]):
    Picasso's Weeping Woman series of Maar was his immediate response to the 1937 bombing of this Spanish town, which he later depicted in a scene featuring an eye-like lightbulb above a screaming horse.
  Part 3 (ans: shell [or seashell; accept hand-shell] (The painting is Botticelli's Birth of Venus.)):
    Maar's many surrealist photographs include one of a hand emerging from one of these objects. A woman modeled on Simonetta Vespucci stands on one of these objects in a 1486 painting.

[B3] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a 1949 photo, this artist stands in the middle of the ocean while holding up his smiling toddler son Claude. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pablo (Ruiz) Picasso (The mentioned painting is Guernica.)):
    Name this artist. Dora Maar's photography documented this artist's choice to paint over a raised fist and add scraps of wallpaper while creating a famous mural-sized painting.
  Part 2 (ans: Lee Miller [or Elizabeth Miller]):
    This photographer, who took over 1,000 photos of Picasso, captured a desert landscape seen through a torn tent screen in Portrait in Space. In a photograph by David Scherman, this photographer sits in Hitler's bathtub.
  Part 3 (ans: Vogue):
    Miller also documented the London Blitz and the concentration camps at Buchenwald and Dachau in her work as a photojournalist for this fashion magazine. It is currently edited by Anna Wintour.

[B4] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the materials Pablo Picasso used, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: papiers colles ("pahp-yay COL")):
    Give this two-word French term for collages that exclusively used a certain material. The first piece of this type was created by Georges Braque with his Fruit Dish and Glass, which greatly influenced Picasso's later collages.
  Part 2 (ans: Guernica ("gher-NEE-cah")):
    Picasso adopted a muted palette for this large oil painting created in response to the bombing of a Basque town during the Spanish Civil War.
  Part 3 (ans: Ripolin):
    Picasso often used this common French enamel paint popular during the early 1900s. In The Decorative Art of Today, Le Corbusier ("lay cor-b'yoo-zee-AY") asked citizens to cover their walls in a white hue of this paint in his "Law of" this paint.

[B5] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This theorist illustrated the dictum "The meaning of the work emerges from the interplay of activating and balancing forces" with an analysis of the lines structuring the portrait Madame Cezanne in a Yellow Chair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rudolf Arnheim):
    Name this art theorist who used Gestalt psychology as the basis for his landmark 1954 book Art and Visual Perception.
  Part 2 (ans: E (rnst) H (ans Josef) Gombrich):
    Arnheim's theory of pictorial resemblance is often contrasted with the theory of artistic representation in this art historian's 1960 book Art and Illusion. His works include The Sense of Order and "Meditations on a Hobby-Horse."
  Part 3 (ans: Guernica):
    Arnheim sought to demonstrate his theories on "visual thinking" in a book on the Genesis of this painting. This monochrome 1937 painting depicts a horse with a knife-like tongue amid a group of wailing women.

[B6] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about a Picasso painting:
  Part 1 (ans: Guernica):
    A light bulb within an eye-like shape can be seen near the center of this largely grey painting made in response to the bombing of a Basque town in the Spanish Civil War. Other features of this Picasso work include a bull and a dead man holding a broken sword.
  Part 2 (ans: Rockefeller):
    A member of this family commissioned a full-sized tapestry copy of Guernica for the UN building in New York. The mural "Man at the Crossroads" was originally planned to be installed in a building named for this family.
  Part 3 (ans: Francisco Franco Bahamonde):
    A Picasso work that in some ways prefigures Guernica is a series of 18 etchings titled "The Dream and Lie of [this person]". The series includes images such as "[this person], with a ridiculously large penis, waving a sword and a flag" and "[this person] dressed as a courtesan with a flower and a fan".

[B7] 2018 MALA (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer acted as a model for the wire sculpture Monument a Apollinaire. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dora Maar):
    Name this photographer, who the same artist depicted sitting in a chair wearing a green dress. This photographer gained prominence after she displayed a picture of a reptilian figure known as Pere Ubu.
  Part 2 (ans: Guernica):
    Dora Maar took pictures of and assisted in the creation of this massive Cubist work.
  Part 3 (ans: "Weeping Woman" Series):
    Dora Maar also modeled for several paintings in this Picasso series. In the final work in this series, she is profiled clasping her blue hands together with a look of terror.

[B8] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about paintings inspired by the Spanish Civil War, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: boiled beans):
    In a Salvador Dali painting titled "Soft Construction With" these food items, an arm bursting upward from a human leg twists the breast of a humanoid monster. That painting, which contains many of these food items, is subtitled "Premonition of Civil War."
  Part 2 (ans: Guernica):
    A gored horse and a bull appear in this famous Pablo Picasso painting responding to the bombing of the title Basque town by the Condor Legion.
  Part 3 (ans: The Fireside Angel [or L'ange du foyer; or The Triumph of Surrealism; or Le Triomphe du Surrealisme]):
    Franco's defeat of the Spanish Republic inspired Max Ernst to create this 1937 painting, in which a red, blue, and orange dragon appears to be celebrating. Ernst said it depicted "a clumsy oaf which destroys everything."
