=== STOCK CLUES: Three Musicians ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Three Musicians
  - The 1980 article by Theodore Reff that first identified the subjects of this painting traces its odd combination of subjects to its artist's studies for a painting set "at the bistro." According to Willem de Kooning, Fernand Leger muttered, "Pauvre [POOV-ruh] [this painting's artist]," whenever Leger looked back and forth between it and Leger's painting of the same title, which includes a black-suited man wearing a red vest buttoned the wrong way.
  - The version of this painting at the Philadelphia Museum of Art does not feature the well-disguised brown dog whose head and tail peer out from under a table, which appears in the better-known version at the MoMA.
  - In this late Synthetic period painting, several bright red and yellow triangles constitute the outfit of the middle figure, who is flanked by representations of Max Jacob and Guillaume Apollinaire as a monk and Pierrot.
  - For 10 points, name this Picasso painting of some instrumentalists. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In The Shock of the New, Robert Hughes pinpoints this technique's use in Still Life With Chair Caning as art's entry into "the industrial present." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: collage [or papier colle]):
    Georges Braque's ("zhorzh BRAHKʼs") Fruit Dish and Glass used what technique of gluing bits of paper or cloth to a flat surface?
  Part 2 (ans: synthetic Cubism [prompt on Crystal Cubism by asking "that style is sometimes grouped with what earlier period?"; reject "analytic Cubism"]):
    Picasso and Braque's 1912 development of collage is a conventional marker for this second period of Cubism. Fantomas by Juan Gris displays this period's emphasis on flat, colorful planes over decomposition of the subject.
  Part 3 (ans: musical instruments [accept specific instruments such as guitars] (The paintings are the two versions of Three Musicians.)):
    Robert Hughes called Picasso's 1912 series of these objects "the most radical change in sculpture since the invention of bronze-casting." Picasso used a synthetic style for 1921 paintings of a clownish trio with these objects.

[B2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A hairy brown dog lies on the ground facing to the left below the left-most figure in a version of this painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Three Musicians):
    Name this Cubist painting depicting three figures dressed as Pierrot, Harlequin, and a friar, believed to be its artist, Guillaume Apollinaire, and Max Jacob respectively. Its central figure holds a guitar.
  Part 2 (ans: Pablo (Ruiz y) Picasso):
    This Spanish painter of Three Musicians painted an old man playing a guitar in one of the most iconic paintings from his "Blue Period."
  Part 3 (ans: newspapers [or journals; or Le Journal; prompt on papers] (The French word for "day," jour, is formed by folding a newspaper headlined Le Journal)):
    Picasso's fellow cubist Juan Gris painted a guitar paired with one of these things, which he paired with a bottle of rum and a fruit dish in other paintings. One of these things displaying the French word for "day" appears under a tree in Joan Miro's (zho-AHN mee-ROH's) The Tilled Field.

[B3] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these Cubist paintings by Picasso, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Les Demoiselles d'Avignon [or The Young Ladies of Avignon]):
    A sailor, but not a plate of fruit, was removed between the studies and the final product of this 1907 painting, which drew on caricatures of African masks for the faces of five Barcelona prostitutes.
  Part 2 (ans: Three Musicians):
    Picasso portrayed himself, Guillaume Apollinaire, and Max Jacob as a Harlequin, Pierrot, and monk in two later paintings of this title from his synthetic Cubist period.
  Part 3 (ans: Ma Jolie):
    This 1911 or 1912 painting contains guitar strings strummed by Picasso's lover Marcelle Humbert and a musical staff, among other nods to the titular refrain to a popular Parisian dance hall tune about "my pretty girl."
