=== STOCK CLUES: Henry David Thoreau ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 35 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Henry David Thoreau
  - In a letter, this author noted that we are not saddened when we look at a field full of grass that will wither, as "the law of their death is the law of new life." "A Life of the Mind" is the subtitle of Robert Richardson's biography of this author.
  - Annie Dillard's book Pilgrim at Tinker Creek is often thematically compared to a book by this earlier writer.
  - This author was profoundly affected by the death of his brother John from tetanus, recalling a boat trip that he took with him in A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers.
  - This author provided an account of the cost of building a small cabin in a section titled "Economy." For 10 points, name this author who recounted spending two years living near a Massachusetts pond in Walden. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ralph Waldo Emerson AND Henry David Thoreau
  - The "oxymoronic" relationship between these two authors is explored in a John T.
  - Lysaker-edited anthology titled for them as "figures of friendship." In a bittersweet eulogy for one of these authors, the other lamented that, "instead of engineering for [his entire country, the deceased] was the captain of a huckleberry-party." At the age of 19, one of these authors first read the other's description of the wonder that men would feel if the stars only appeared "one night in a thousand years." These authors are the subjects of a pair of biographies written by Robert D. [PWR]
  - Richardson, the husband of (*) Annie Dillard.
  - The younger of these authors spent three years as a tutor to the other's children in his Concord home.
  - These authors first met at Harvard in 1837, where the older of them delivered his "Divinity School Address" the following year.
  - For 10 points, identify both of these authors, one of whom wrote "Self-Reliance" and helped finance the other's cabin on Walden Pond. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Henry David Thoreau's night in jail [or obvious equivalents of the imprisonment of Henry David Thoreau; or The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail; accept just being in jail or equivalents once "Thoreau" is read; prompt on Thoreau's civil disobedience until "Civil" is read; prompt on imprisonment or equivalents that don't mention Thoreau until "Thoreau" is read, but accept afterwards]
  - In a play titled for this event, a man teaching a class without books compares the way his students are "scrambling for ideas" to "huckleberry-hunting." That play titled for this event climaxes with a nightmare in which soldiers chanting "hate-two-three-four!" attack a foreign soldier played by the same actor who plays the escaped slave Williams. [PWR]
  - In an essay, this event makes the author realize that his neighbors' "friendship was for summer weather only; that they did not greatly propose to do right." In that essay, this event also leads the author to call the (*) State as "timid as a lone woman with her silver spoons." Robert E. [PWR]
  - Lee and Jerome Lawrence wrote a play named for this experience, which, due to the intervention of an anonymous relative, was cut short after a single night.
  - A refusal to pay the poll-tax prompted-for 10 points-what experience described in Henry David Thoreau's "Civil Disobedience"? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: In the first edition of this publication, its founder wrote "all history has to be rewritten" and declared, "we have no interest in the scenes of antiquity, only as lessons of avoidance of nearly all their examples." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Democratic Review [or The United States Magazine and Democratic Review] (The quotes came from "The Great Nation of Futurity" by John L. O'Sullivan.)):
    Name this publication that promoted early works by Whitman, Hawthorne, and Elizabeth Browning and coined the term "manifest destiny."
  Part 2 (ans: "Civil Disobedience" [or "Resistance to Civil Government" or "On the Duty of Civil Disobedience"] (by Henry David Thoreau)):
    The periodical's slogan "The best government is that which governs least" was "heartily" accepted in this tract, which harangues "merchants and farmers" in Massachusetts who "are not prepared to do justice to the slave and to Mexico."
  Part 3 (ans: Cuba [or Captaincy General of Cuba or Capitania General de Cuba]):
    Supporters of "manifest destiny" backed Narciso Lopez's expedition to annex this territory. The Teller Amendment signaled this territory's independence in response to President McKinley.

[B2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author quoted playwright James Shirley in remarks he made after the hanging of John Brown. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henry David Thoreau):
    Name this author, who described Brown's career as "meteor-like" in an essay titled for Brown's "Last Days."This author also wrote "A Plea for Captain John Brown."
  Part 2 (ans: hymn [accept "Battle Hymn of the Republic"]):
    John Brown's actions inspired the marching song "John Brown's Body," whose tune was based on one of these devotional songs. "John Brown's Body" inspired Julia Ward Howe's song titled "Battle [this type of song] of the Republic."
  Part 3 (ans: Herman Melville (The novella is Benito Cereno.)):
    This author called John Brown "the meteor of the war" in his poem "The Portent." This author wrote a novella about a slave revolt led by Babo.

[B3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Christopher Pearse Cranch amusingly illustrated this literary image as a creature with long legs and a top hat strolling the countryside. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the "transparent eye-ball" [prompt on partial answers]):
    Give this metaphor from an 1836 essay for pure, spiritual perception of the natural world. An author claims to be this image before stating "I am nothing; I see all."
  Part 2 (ans: Walden (by Henry David Thoreau)):
    Emerson's call for "solitude" in his essay "Nature" was a primary inspiration for this book, whose author "wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life."
  Part 3 (ans: "Nature always wears the colors of the spirit."):
    After suggesting "an occult relation between man and the vegetable," Emerson claims that the world seems alternately happy and melancholy to us because Nature always does this. An exact six-word answer is required.

[B4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A. R. Ammons analogized poetry to this activity in a 1967 essay that calls it an "externalization of an interior seeking" that "turns... and eventually returns." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: walking [or equivalents like perambulation; accept "A Poem is a Walk"; prompt on movement or locomotion or equivalents]):
    Name this activity that releases the speaker "from forms, / from the perpendiculars" in the poem "Corsons Inlet." It ends by noting, as "Scope eludes [his] grasp," tomorrow this activity will be made anew.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost] (The poem is "The Wood-Pile.")):
    To argue that "A Poem is a Walk," A. R. Ammons quotes from a poem by this author, whose speaker walks into a frozen swamp and reflects on the "slow smokeless burning of decay" of a pile of wood.
  Part 3 (ans: transcendentalism [or word forms like transcendental] (Henry David Thoreau wrote "Walking" and Ralph Waldo Emerson wrote "Nature.")):
    Harold Bloom called Ammons "the most direct" poet since Frost to emulate this 19th-century movement, which included the authors of the essays "Walking" and "Nature."

[B5] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: A philosopher with this first name who is best known for writing about the notion of risk-taking as a means of self-surpassing ironically perished while trying to save two drowning children in 2017. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anne [accept Lady Anne Conway or Anne Finch; accept Anne Dufourmantelle]):
    Give this first name of the French philosopher with the surname Dufourmantelle. A member of the Cambridge Platonists with this first name provided a vitalist account of the spirit in the treatise Principles of the Most Ancient and Modern Philosophy.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry [accept Henry More or Henry David Thoreau]):
    Anne Conway was taught philosophy by a fellow Cambridge Platonist with this first name and the surname More. An American transcendentalist thinker with this first name wrote Civil Disobedience.
  Part 3 (ans: Michel ("MEE-shell") [accept Michel de Montaigne or Michel Eyquem de Montaigne; accept Michel Foucault or Paul-Michel Foucault; reject "Michael"]):
    Another important Henry in the history of philosophy was Henry of Navarre, since a famous philosopher with this given name acted as an emissary for him. A later philosopher with this first name coined the terms "dispositif" and "biopower."

[B6] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One play by this author ends as Eva holds the shoes given to her by Jim after he jumped out of a window into a river to escape jail. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tennessee Williams (the other play is Suddenly Last Summer)):
    Name this author of Not About Nightingales. At the end of another play by this author, a woman lunges out of her wheelchair shouting "cut this hideous story out of her brain!" while a woman tells a story of a poet "devoured" by children.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry David Thoreau):
    The authors Robert E. Lee and Jerome Lawrence collaborated on a play that fictionalized The Night [this author] Spent in Jail as discussed in this author's essay "Civil Disobedience."
  Part 3 (ans: Miguel Pinero [or Miguel Antonio Gomez Pinero]):
    While in Sing Sing, this author wrote about the child molester Clark Davis getting killed in a detention center in his play Short Eyes. This man co-founded the Nuyorican Poets Cafe with Miguel Algarin and Pedro Pietri.

[B7] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Later printings of this book include the addendum Mistakes We Knew We Were Making, which detail various omissions the author made to make the book flow more easily. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius):
    Name this 'big, daring and manic-depressive' literary memoir, chronicling the author's attempts to parent his younger brother Toph after their mother's death from stomach cancer. A recurring theme in the book involves the independent magazine Might, which the author creates with his friends in San Francisco.
  Part 2 (ans: Dave Eggers):
    A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius is the debut novel of this American author and founder of the McSweeney's literary journal. Their other works include You Shall Know Our Velocity and the technological dystopia The Circle.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry David Thoreau):
    Perhaps the most iconic American literary memoir is Walden, a work inspired by two years that this transcendentalist author spent near the titular lake, living on the land of their mentor and friend Ralph Waldo Emerson.

[B8] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An eyewitness boasted that "the results of this battle will be as important and memorable to those whom it concerns as those of the battle of Bunker Hill, at least." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of the Ants):
    Name this battle. An account of its ground "strewn with the dead and dying" of both the "red imperialists" and "black republicans" is found in "Brute Neighbors."
  Part 2 (ans: Walden Pond):
    The Battle of the Ants was fought near this lake. B.F. Skinner would later title a description of his behaviorist Utopia for this lake "two".
  Part 3 (ans: Henry David Thoreau):
    The Battle of the Ants appears in the writings of this author of Walden, who described being put in jail for refusing to pay his taxes in Civil Disobedience.

[B9] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The first section of this essay oddly focuses on an Arcimboldo-esque painting of a clown's head made of vegetables that the author sees in a hotel lobby. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Total Eclipse"):
    Name this essay, in which the author hears haunting screams ringing from the hills as she watches the title event in Yakima, Washington with her husband Gary.
  Part 2 (ans: Annie Dillard):
    This author included her oft-anthologized essay "Total Eclipse" in the volume Teaching a Stone to Talk. She profiled the natural world around her home in Roanoke, Virginia, in her Pulitzer-winning nonfiction narrative Pilgrim at Tinker Creek.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry David Thoreau):
    Due to their shared focus on natural themes, Dillard is often regarded as a twentieth-century successor to this American writer, whose book Walden was the subject of her MA thesis.

[B10] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ralph Waldo Emerson led the Transcendentalist movement in America and influenced writers and poets of his time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nature):
    The foundation for Transcendentalism was laid in this Emerson essay published in 1836.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry David Thoreau):
    This person followed Transcendentalist ideals and went to spend two years in woodland by Walden Pond belonging to Emerson, after which he wrote his magnum opus of the same name.
  Part 3 (ans: Walt Whitman):
    Another poet that embodied Emerson's ideal of a Transcendentalist intellectual was this writer, who wrote the poems "A Noiseless Patient Spider" and "Calamus"

[B11] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book chronicles Barbara Kingsolver's family's attempts to eat only locally grown food for a year, leading them to set up a farm, grow zucchini, and raise turkeys. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Animal, Vegetable, Miracle):
    Name this memoir that argues against chemical and factory farming.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry David Thoreau [that account is Walden]):
    While Barbara Kingsolver ate locally for a year, this earlier author wrote an account of the two years, two months, and two days he spent in a secluded Massachusetts cabin, chapters of which are titled "Economy" and "Higher Laws."

[B12] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man, who was appointed Minister to Portugal by Franklin Pierce, wrote about how he used the Fox Sisters to conjure up the spirit of William Shakespeare to sing to his dead mother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John L. O'Sullivan):
    Name this editor of the "Democratic Review" periodical who coined the term "manifest destiny" in several articles, such as "The Great Nation of Futurity" and his essay calling for annexation of Texas.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry David Thoreau):
    In his opening editorial, O'Sullivan wrote that "the best government is that which governs least," a quote later borrowed by this transcendentalist for his essay "Civil Disobedience."
  Part 3 (ans: Narciso Lopez [or Don Narciso Lopez y Urriola]):
    O'Sullivan was put on trial after he supported the expedition of this man, who took about 600 people on a trip in 1850 to seize the city of Cardenas carrying a flag that was later adapted into the modern flag of Cuba. This man quickly hightailed it back to Key West after the Spanish Cuban population attacked him.
