=== STOCK CLUES: Hopkins ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 60 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 40 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - This poet began one poem with the note "felled 1879" and describes how his "aspens dear" were "not spared, not one that dandaled a sandalled." This poet denoted the essential set of characteristics that differentiates a thing as its "inscape," an idea derived from Duns Scotus.
  - This poet of "Binsey Poplars" praised "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing" in a poem that ends with "blue-bleak embers" that "gash (*) gold-vermilion." This poet developed a rhythm with a stressed first syllable that is used to imitate natural speech.
  - In a poem by this author, the narrator "caught this morning morning's minion," a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." This author's line "Glory be to God for dappled things" is an example of "sprung rhythm." For 10 points, name this Jesuit poet of "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty." [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 CLEAN (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley  Hopkins
  - One poem by this author describes three "Removes" and laments that "To seem the stranger lies my lot." The speaker of another poem by this author asks "O thou terrible, why wouldst thou rude on me" and describes a "year / Of now done darkness" where he "lay wrestling with (my God!) my God." Another poem by this author describes "Brute beauty and valor and act" in a poem that ends "Fall, gall themselves, and gash gold-vermillion." This author of (*) "Carrion Comfort" noted that God "fathers-forth whose beauty is past change" in one poem. [PWR]
  - One poem by this author opens "I caught this morning's minion." While living in Ireland as a professor, a depressive period inspired this man to write a series of "Terrible Sonnets." In one poem, this author declared 'Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty." [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - Though this author was long dead, a selection of their poems led off the influential Faber Book of Modern Verse. [PWR]
  - In one poem, this author asks if they should cheer a "heaven-handling" Hero while reflecting on a dark year wrestling with God. [PWR]
  - This poet lists "rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim" and "Fresh-firecoal chestnut-falls" before stating "He (*) fathers-forth whose beauty is past change." This poet created a meter that uses diacritics to mark unusual stressed syllables followed by a variable number of unstressed syllables.
  - This poet wrote six Terrible Sonnets expressing a crisis of faith, including "Carrion Comfort." The line "Glory be to God for dappled things" is an example of this poet's Sprung Rhythm.
  - For 10 points, name this Jesuit poet of "Pied Beauty." [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins [The first two poems are "The Sea and the Skylark" and "Binsey Poplars," respectively.]
  - He's not George Meredith, but this poet wrote "left hand, off land, I hear the lark ascend" in a poem in which he used the Welsh verse form cynghanedd (king-HAH-neth). [PWR]
  - A poem by this poet describes "airy cages "that "quelled or quenched in leaves the leaping sun." This poet created the verb "unselve" to demonstrate his theory of "inscape" in that poem, which mourns the felling of a grove of (*) poplars. [PWR]
  - This poet wrote of "blue-bleak embers" that "gash gold-vermillion" in a poem whose speaker's "heart in hiding stirred" for the title bird.
  - This poet described "fresh-firecoal chestnut-falls" and "skies of couple-colour as a brinded cow" in a poem that begins "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty." [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - This poet described being left a "lonely began" in a poem that laments his isolation "at a third Remove" in Ireland.
  - The speaker of a poem by this author tells despair he will "not feast on thee" and ends by recounting a time when he "wretch lay wrestling with (my god!) my god." This poet praised "all things counter, original, spare, strange" in a poem that says of God: "He fathers-forth whose beauty is past change." This Jesuit priest discussed his religious doubt in six "terrible sonnets," which include "Carrion Comfort." This author dedicated a poem to five Franciscan nuns who died in a shipwreck and opened another: "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this poet who used his characteristic sprung rhythm in poems like "The Wreck of the Deutschland" and "Pied Beauty." [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - This poet described a "towery city and branchy between towers" in a poem titled for a philosopher who he thought of "in any inscape of the sky or sea." This poet described securing "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!" Many of this poet's verses were not widely available until they were disseminated after his death by Robert Bridges.
  - This man scanned several of his poems with symbols known as outrides and began one verse "I caught this morning morning's minion." The editors of a Jesuit magazine "dared not print" a poem he wrote about the death of five Franciscan nuns fleeing Germany.
  - For 10 points, name this British poet who used sprung rhythm in "The Windhover" and "The Wreck of the Deutschland." [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - In one of this author's poems, he claimed "each mortal thing" cries "What I do is me: for that I came".
  - He compared "man's mounting spirit" to one of his title figures, which is "beyond the remembering his free fells".
  - This author of "As Kingfishers (*) Catch Fire" and "The Caged Skylark" was posthumously popularised by Robert Bridges.
  - This poet called the title figure of one poem "morning's minion", and he opened one sonnet with "Glory be to God for dappled things".
  - For 10 points, name this British poet who pioneered sprung rhythm in "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty". [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - In two paired poems by this author, the first speaker asks "how to keep" beauty from "vanishing away," to which the second responds "give beauty back" to "beauty's self and beauty's giver." This author of "The Leaden Echo and the Golden Echo" wrote another poem that describes the soul crying "what I do is me: for that I came." This man's poems were published posthumously by a friend who served as UK Poet Laureate during World War 1. [PWR]
  - This author of "As kingfishers catch fire, dragonflies draw flame" repeated "Rural scene, a rural scene / Sweet especial rural scene" at the end of his poem (*) "Binsey Poplars." This poet praised "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!" in a poem addressed to "morning's minion," a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." For 10 points, name this Catholic poet who pioneered "sprung rhythm" in poems like "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty." [PWR,GIVE]

[T9] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Oscar Hopkins
  - As a child, this character makes a cross diagram marked with Greek letters that he used for divining. [PWR]
  - This character later finds himself betting on a dog killing rats in a pit because there is nothing else to gamble on during the Sabbath. [PWR]
  - He earns the nickname Mr. [PWR]
  - Smudge while working as an ink mixer for (+) Mr. d'Abbs, and this protege of Hugh Stratton attends horse races at Epsom with Odd Bod and Wardley-Fish while a student at Oxford. [PWR]
  - This man and Percy Smith kill Mr. [PWR]
  - Jeffris with axes, and he is treated heavily with (*) laudanum for seasickness on a trip to Bellinger. [PWR]
  - This man wins the Leplastrier fortune upon making a delivery to the Anglican minister Dennis Hasset.
  - For ten points, name this man who bet on transporting a glass cathedral in a Peter Carey novel about him and Lucinda. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Harry (Lloyd) Hopkins
  - In a midterm election, crooked journalist Frank Kent fabricated a quote by this man that originated the conservative catchphrase "tax and spend." This adviser dispatched the lesbian reporter Lorena Hickok to Appalachia to collect information on poverty.
  - A lifelong chainsmoker, he moved into the Lincoln Bedroom after chronic stomach cancer ended his hopes of a presidential run.
  - Republicans afraid of the electoral influence this man wielded passed the Hatch Act, which still forbids federal employees from standing for political office.
  - This man was called a "crumbling lighthouse" by Winston Churchill while coordinating negotiations between the Big Three during World War II.
  - Harold Ickes squabbled over funding with the agency this man ran, which at its height employed over 3 million people.
  - For 10 points, name this close friend of Franklin Roosevelt who administered the Works Progress Administration. [GIVE]

[T11] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - This poet wrote that, although "the last lights off the black West went," "morning, at the brown brink eastward, springs." In that poem, this poet observed "All is seared with trade" and "Generations have trod, have trod, have trod." A poem by this author mentions "worlds of wanwood leafmeal" and begins "Margaret, are you grieving / Over Goldengrove unleaving?" The title (*) attribute of another poem by this author "will flame out, like shining from shook foil." This poet of "Spring and Fall" praised "All things counter, original, spare, strange" in a poem that uses his technique of sprung rhythm and begins "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this Catholic English poet who wrote "God's Grandeur" and "Pied Beauty." [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - This author describes the title event of one poem as a "heart's clarion" and "world's wildfire" and states that "this... poor potsherd, patch, matchwood... is Immortal Diamond." This author wrote a poem whose various interpretations center on the word "Buckle" and describes how "blue-bleak embers...
  - Fall, gall themselves, and gash gold-vermillion." This author of "That Nature is a Heraclitean Fire and of the Comfort of the Resurrection" remembered "the Happy Memory of five Franciscan Nuns exiled by the Falk Laws," in a poem that plays on the name of a sunken ship to describe both the vessel and the country from which it departed.
  - For 10 points, name this English Jesuit poet of "The Wreck of the Deutschland," who used sprung rhythm in "The Windhover." [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - A posthumous publication of his poems was arranged by the poet laureate, Robert Bridges. [PWR]
  - The first section of Paul Mariani's biography of this man is titled "We Are So Grafted on His Wood" and comes from the last line of this man's poem about the Eucharist, "Barnfloor and Winepress." The speaker of one of his sonnets observes, "Generations have trod, have trod, have trod; / And all is seared with trade." One of his poems describes an object that "drove in the dark to leeward, / She struck-not a reef or rock / But the combs of a smother of sand" and is dedicated to "the happy memory of five (*) Franciscan Nuns exiles by the Falk Laws." In another of his poems, the subject "rung upon the rein of a wimpling wing / In his ecstasy" and is described as a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." For 10 points, name this poet fond of sprung rhythm, who wrote "The Wreck of the Deutschland" and "The Windhover." [GIVE]

[T14] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - A poem by this man describes "pining till time when reason rambled in it" and laments the death of a man who suffered "some fatal four disorders".
  - The posthumous publication of most of this man's poetry was arranged by Robert Bridges. [PWR]
  - This poet, who termed the essential unique nature of a given thing its "inscape", wrote a poem whose title entity "gathers to a greatness, like the ooze of oil" and "will flame out, like shining from shook foil". [PWR]
  - While in Dublin, this author of (*) "Felix Randal" wrote "I Wake and Feel the Fell of Dark, Not Day", "Carrion Comfort", and his other so-called "terrible sonnets".
  - He extolled "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing" in a poem that describes a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon".
  - For 10 points, name this author of "God's Grandeur" and "The Windhover", who pioneered sprung rhythm in poems like "The Wreck of the Deutschland". [GIVE]

[T15] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - In one poem, this poet described how "this air I gather and release" was lived on by a man who "fired France for Mary without spot." This poet claimed that "after-comers cannot guess the beauty been" in a poem about the felling of his "aspens dear." This poet of "Duns Scotus's Oxford" and "Binsey Poplars" asked, "Why do men then now not reck his rod?" in a poem whose subject "will flame out, like shining from shook foil." Another of his poems describes "fresh-firecoal chestnut-falls" and "rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim" and begins, "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this British poet, a proponent of sprung rhythm who wrote "Pied Beauty" and "God's Grandeur." [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - In one poem, this man remarked that "each mortal thing does one thing and the same," which includes "crying what I do is me: for that I came." The speaker of that poem states that "as kingfishers catch fire, dragonflies draw flame." Another poem by this man notes that "as the heart grows colder, it will come to such sights colder" and begins by asking "Margaret, are you grieving?" This author of "Spring and Fall" wrote a poem whose speaker admires "the achieve of; the mastery of" the title creature, who is called "morning's minion" and "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." Another of this man's poems opens by stating "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "Pied Beauty" and "The Windhover." [GIVE]

[T17] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - In one poem by him, the speaker questions whether to cheer "the hero whose heaven-handling flung me, foot trod me" or "me that fought him".
  - This poet described "worlds of wanwood leafmeal" in a poem that begins "Margaret, are you grieving / Over Goldengrove unleaving?".
  - This author used the curtal sonnet form in a poem describing images like "skies of couple-colour as a brinded cow," and wrote the works "Carrion Comfort" and "Spring and Fall." In another work, he described a bird that is "kingdom of daylight's dauphin, dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." The maritime deaths of five nuns exiled by the Falk Laws inspired this man's The Wreck of the Deutschland.
  - For 10 points, name this English poet whose sprung rhythm works include "Pied Beauty" and "The Windhover". [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Gerard Manley Hopkins
  - Among the few works this poet published in his lifetime are "Winter with the Gulf Stream" and "Barnfloor and Winepress." After reading Duns Scotus, he conceived of "inscape" to represent the uniqueness of each object.
  - This author of "As Kingfishers Catch Fire" described the drowning of five exiled Catholic nuns near the mouth of the Thames in "The Wreck of the Deutschland," which, like "God's Grandeur" and "Pied Beauty," uses his invention of "sprung rhythm." For 10 points, name this 19th-century Jesuit priest who wrote "The Windhover." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet dedicated an ode to "the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns" who were killed in a shipwreck. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    Name this English Jesuit poet of "The Wreck of the Deutschland." This poet used diacritics to mark stressed syllables in meters as part of pioneering "sprung rhythm."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Windhover"):
    In this poem's final stanza, the words "sheer plod" are marked with diacritics to stress them. This Hopkins poem about the title bird opens, "I caught this morning morning's minion, king- / dom of daylight's dauphin."
  Part 3 (ans: cynghanedd ("kung-HAH-neth") (The poem in the first line is "The Sea and the Skylark.")):
    Hopkins adapted this Welsh poetic technique to write the line "Left hand, off land, I hear the lark ascend." In a form of this technique whose name means "harmony," consonants in the first half of a line are repeated in the second half.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This verse form is exemplified by Barnabe Barnes's line "What shall I do to my Nymph when I go to behold her? / Hold her!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: echo verse):
    Name this 16th and 17th-century English verse form in which the last syllables of a line repeat. This form shares its name with a nymph loved by Narcissus.
  Part 2 (ans: George Herbert):
    This poet used echo verse in "Heaven," a poem beginning "O Who will show me those delights on high? Echo: I ("eye")." This poet concluded his poem "Love (III)" with the lines "So I did sit and eat," after Love enjoins him to "taste my meat."
  Part 3 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins (The other poem is "The Windhover.")):
    This poet used a form of echo verse in "The Leaden Echo and the Golden Echo." Another poem by this poet opens, "I caught this morning morning's minion, king-/ dom of daylight's dauphin, dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon."

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's concluding image of "Mary without spot" is a reference to a historical debate about the Immaculate Conception. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Duns Scotus's Oxford"):
    Name this poem that describes a certain "Towery city" as "[c]uckoo-echoing, bell-swarmed, lark charmed, rook-racked, river-rounded."
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    "Duns Scotus's Oxford" is by this Victorian poet and Jesuit priest, whose philosophy-themed poem "That Nature is Heraclitean ("hera-CLY-tee-un") Fire" uses his trademark "sprung rhythm."
  Part 3 (ans: Empedocles ("em-PED-oh-kleez") [accept Empedocles on Etna]):
    Hopkins's contemporary Matthew Arnold wrote a closet drama about this other philosopher, which concludes with Callicles's ("CAL-ih-kleezʼs") song to Apollo, and is excerpted in the Oxford Book of English Verse.

[B4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A study by John Hollander analyzes "Metaleptic," "Schematic," and "Metaphorical" examples of the "Figure of" this phenomenon in the work of "Milton and After." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: echoes [accept The Figure of Echo; accept "The Leaden Echo and the Golden Echo" (by Gerard Manley Hopkins)]):
    Name these phenomena. The lines "Be beginning to despair, to despair, / Despair, despair, despair, despair" and "Yonder, yes yonder, yonder, / Yonder" end parts of a poem narrated respectively by "Leaden" and "Golden" examples of them.
  Part 2 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    Hollander's book ends with a discussion of this poet's mention of "wild echoes flying" and "echoes, dying, dying, dying" as bugles blow in "The Splendor Falls." He also wrote "Charge of the Light Brigade."
  Part 3 (ans: George Herbert (The collection is The Temple.)):
    An echo provides one-word answers to questions posed by the speaker in this metaphysical author's poem "Heaven," included alongside many shaped poems in a book of "Sacred Poems and Private Ejaculations."

[B5] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This book's third part includes a section "On Obsolete Mannerisms" that examines recession of accent, while its first part defends its use of the term "elision" to account for "supernumerary syllables." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milton's Prosody (, with a chapter on Accentual Verse and Notes) (by Robert Bridges)):
    Name this 1921 critical text whose author carried its ideas into a system of syllabic verse employed in such poems as "Poor Poll" (pahl) and The Testament of Beauty.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    Milton's Prosody is by Robert Bridges, whose "Neo-Miltonian syllabics" contrasted with the stress-timed "sprung rhythm" invented by this poet of "The Windhover," whose poems were published by Bridges.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland"):
    Bridges claimed to have been "shamefully worsted" in a "frontal assault" on this 35-stanza Hopkins poem, which ends with the tongue-twisting line "Our hearts' charity's hearth's fire, our thoughts' chivalry's throng's Lord."

[B6] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In her comparison of this animal to the "miraculous creatures" that appear in Old English riddles, Erin Sebo argued that a poem's opening line "I caught" is similar to the riddles' opening line "Ic seah," ("EECH sakh") or "I see." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the windhover [prompt on kestrel or hawk or falcon or bird]):
    Name this animal whom that poem describes as "Brute beauty and valour and act, oh, air, pride, plume" and introduces as "morning's minion, king- / dom of daylight's dauphin."
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This English poet employed his characteristic sprung rhythm in poems like "Pied Beauty" and "The Windhover."
  Part 3 (ans: cuckoo):
    Hopkins also used sprung rhythm to evoke this bird's song in a poem in which "The whole landscape flushes on a sudden at a sound." The Middle English rota "Sumer is icumen in" tells this type of bird to "loudly sing."

[B7] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Social Science
     Leadin: Christoph Lengauer gave a FISH image of this woman's chromosomes to her children Deborah and Zakariyya. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henrietta Lacks [or Loretta Pleasant; or Hennie Lacks; accept The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks]):
    Name this descendant of the Pleasant family and their enslaved tobacco worker Mourning. A 2010 Rebecca Skloot book reported how scientists profited from this woman while her family remained poor.
  Part 2 (ans: Johns Hopkins University [or JHU]):
    Skloot's book led this university to name a lecture series for Henrietta Lacks, whose cancer was treated here. Telomerase discoverer Carol Greider now works at this Baltimore university that is famed for its medical school.
  Part 3 (ans: Medical Apartheid [or Medical Apartheid: The Dark History of Medical Experimentation on Black Americans from Colonial Times to the Present]):
    This 2007 history by medical ethicist Harriet Washington contextualizes Johns Hopkins's exploitation of Henrietta Lacks, arguing that Black Americans have been targeted for experimentation since colonial times.

[B8] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This metrical foot is similar to a molossus, which contains three stressed syllables rather than this foot's two stressed syllables. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: spondee [or spondaic meter]):
    Name this unusual metrical foot that is most often seen in English in compound words and repeated exclamations.
  Part 2 (ans: sprung rhythm ["Pied Beauty" is by Gerard Manley Hopkins]):
    Spondees are a regular feature of this type of rhythm, as in the phrases "swift, slow; sweet, sour" and "Praise him" from the poem "Pied Beauty."
  Part 3 (ans: Capulet):
    Though Shakespeare usually used the iambic foot, examples of a spondee in his plays are the phrases "How, how, how, how" and "Fie, fie" spoken by the lord and lady of this family when discussing their daughter's refusal to marry Paris.

[B9] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the movie The Father:
  Part 1 (ans: Anthony Hopkins):
    At the 2021 Academy Awards, this man won best actor for his role as an Alzheimer's patient in The Father. This actor played the serial killer Hannibal Lecter in three films.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Hampton):
    The Father also won best adapted screenplay for playwright Florian Zeller and this screenwriter. This author of the play The Philanthropist wrote the screenplay for Atonement.
  Part 3 (ans: French [the novel and film is Dangerous Liaisons]):
    Hampton and Zeller adapted Zeller's play The Father, which was originally in this language. Hampton previously won an academy award for adapting a novel in this language into a movie that starred John Malkovich as a viscount.

[B10] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a letter between these two poets, one desperately asks the other "What does anything at all matter?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Bridges AND Gerald Manley Hopkins):
    Name these two poets, one of whom was the 1913 Poet Laureate of the UK. He posthumously published the other's poems in a 1918 collection, bringing him much fame.
  Part 2 (ans: University of Oxford):
    Bridges and Hopkins began their friendship when they met at this prestigious institution, the oldest university in England.
  Part 3 (ans: "Terrible Sonnets" [accept "Sonnets of Desolation"]):
    Although Bridges and Hopkins sent each other many letters, Hopkins never sent this group of six sonnets. Written in a depressive episode, they include "No Worse, There is None" and "Carrion Comfort."

[B11] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In the second section of this poem, Death itself declares: "Some find me a sword; some the flange and the rail; flame, fang, or flood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland" [by Gerard Manley Hopkins]):
    Name this poem that notes that "Nor rescue, only rocket and lightship, shone" when "five Franciscan nuns" fleeing anti-Catholic laws in Germany drowned during the title event.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    This author was haunted by the portentous "anvil-ding" mentioned in Hopkins's "The Wreck of the Deutschland," prompting her to repeat the sound "Clang" throughout her long prose poem about her mother's mental breakdown, "In the Village."
  Part 3 (ans: Easter [or "let him easter in us"; or "Easter, 1916"]):
    Bishop referred to her mother by the name of this holiday in "In the Village," in reference to Hopkins's use of it as a verb in "The Wreck of the Deutschland." W.B. Yeats commemorated an Irish uprising on this holiday in 1916.

[B12] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: In 1736, the patriarch of this family became the first Providence-based merchant to join a consortium of investors backing a slave-gathering voyage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Brown [accept Brown University]):
    Name this family who were among the signatories of the charter for Rhode Island College, which is now an Ivy League University named for them in Providence.
  Part 2 (ans: Esek Hopkins):
    The Browns hired this naval officer to captain the Sally on a slave-trading mission in 1764. This Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Navy led the 1776 Raid on Nassau while captaining the Andrew Doria, the first American ship to receive a naval salute from a foreign power.
  Part 3 (ans: Barbara Tuchman):
    This historian wrote a book titled for the "first salute" that Hopkins had received. She won her second Pulitzer Prize for Stillwell and the American Experience in China.

[B13] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about film adaptations of Henrik Ibsen plays:
  Part 1 (ans: Satyajit Ray):
    One of this director's final works was 1990's Ganashatru ("GONE-ah-SHAH-thru"), an adaptation of Ibsen's An Enemy of The People. A brother and sister witness a train passing by a crop field in an iconic scene from this director's Pather Panchali ("puh-THERE pun-CHAH-lee"),
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Gregory [prompt on My Dinner With Andre]):
    For a 2013 adaptation of The Master Builder, Jonathan Demme ("deh-ME") cast this French-born actor and theater director in the role of Knut Brovik. In another film, this actor meets with a character played by Wallace Shawn in the Cafe des Artistes.
  Part 3 (ans: Anthony Hopkins):
    This actor starred as Torvald Helmer in a 1973 film adaptation of A Doll's House and starred as Dr. Hannibal Lecter in The Silence of the Lambs.

[B14] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes a "sea-worm" as "grotesque, slimed, dumb, indifferent." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Convergence of the Twain"):
    Name this Thomas Hardy poem set "In a solitude of the sea / Deep from human vanity." Its lines are arranged to form the shape of an ocean liner's prow in reference to its subject matter, the sinking of the Titanic.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This poet used his trademark "sprung rhythm" technique in his poem about the "Wreck of the Deutschland ("DOYTCH-lont")," which is dedicated "To the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns."
  Part 3 (ans: Percy Bysshe Shelley):
    This poet said to have predicted his death by shipwreck with the lines "My spirit's bark is driven, / Far from the shore" in his poem "Adonais" ("ad-oh-NAY-iss"). He also wrote "Ode to the West Wind," "To a Skylark," and "Ozymandias."

[B15] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A book about these people was prefaced with the papal bull Summis desiderantes affectibus, which had given Johann Sprenger and Heinrich Kraemer authority to persecute these people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: witches [accept sorcerers or sorceresses]):
    Name these people who were accused of performing magic with the aid of demons. The Malleus Maleficarum was a handbook on finding these people and putting them on trial.
  Part 2 (ans: Matthew Hopkins):
    This English witch hunter called himself the "Witchfinder General" during the English Civil War. He made use of the "swimming test" by tossing the accused witch into water and seeing if they would float.
  Part 3 (ans: Maria Theresa [or Maria Theresia]):
    This Enlightenment-era Austrian monarch curtailed the execution of witches on the advice of court physician Gerard van Swieten, who also disproved the existence of vampires after being asked by this monarch to investigate.

[B16] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author described this set of poems as "the thin gleanings of a long weary while" to Robert Bridges. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: terrible sonnets [or the sonnets of desolation]):
    Name this set of poems which includes "No Worst, There is None," "Thou art indeed just, Lord" and "Carrion Comfort." These six poems express the religious doubts of the poet.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This author's last words were "I am so happy, I am so happy. I loved my life" despite the late-life depression that inspired his "terrible sonnets." This possibly homosexual Jesuit wrote "Pied Beauty" in his trademark sprung rhythm.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland"):
    This ode by Hopkins opens with an invocation to "Thou mastering me / God!" It is dedicated to five Franciscan nuns who drowned during the title event.

[B17] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Reuel Briggs discovers that Western civilization sprang from the ancient Ethiopian kingdom of Telassar in this author's final novel, Of One Blood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pauline Hopkins):
    Name this editor of the Colored American Magazine, which serialized her novels Hagar's Daughter and Contending Forces.
  Part 2 (ans: Booker T (aliaferro) Washington):
    Hopkins was forced to leave the Colored American Magazine after it was secretly purchased by this author of the autobiography Up from Slavery.
  Part 3 (ans: the South (The second book is George Fitzhugh's Sociology for the South.)):
    Another critic of Washington, Anna Julia Cooper, examined the combined effects of race and gender on black women in a book called A Voice from [this place]. The argument that free trade leads to immorality is central to a mid-nineteenth-century treatise called Sociology for [this place].

[B18] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In his response to Christina Rossetti's "The Convent Threshold," this author took the point of view of a man trying to convince his lover not to become a nun. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    Name this author who eventually abandoned that poem, "A Voice from the World," due to the gap between his religious and aesthetic ideals. His reading of Duns Scotus later in life helped him to both reconcile the two and develop his concepts of "inscape" and "instress."
  Part 2 (ans: a storm [prompt on answers like wind or rain; prompt on weather]):
    Hopkins compares passion to one of these phenomena throughout "A Voice from the World." In another Hopkins poem, one of these events causes the title wreck of the Deutschland.
  Part 3 (ans: haven (the poem is "Heaven-Haven")):
    In a poem subtitled "a nun takes the veil," Hopkins described heaven as this kind of place "where no storms come." "The Wreck of the Deutschland" asks the reader to "Remember us in the heaven-[this word] of the Reward."

[B19] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Suspicion that this organization's employees were being used to campaign for Democrats led to the Hatch Act in 1939. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Works Progress Administration [or WPA]):
    Name this New Deal agency that built projects like Midway International Airport and the Griffith Observatory. This agency and the CCC directly hired unemployed men, unlike the PWA.
  Part 2 (ans: Harry Hopkins):
    This man founded the Works Progress Administration. This former Secretary of Commerce acted as a messenger between FDR and Winston Churchill.
  Part 3 (ans: Harold L. Ickes ("ICK-iss") [do not accept "Harold M. Ickes"]):
    Hopkins feuded with this rival head of the Public Works Administration, who criticized "make-work" work relief. When Marian Anderson was blocked from performing at DAR Constitution Hall, this Secretary of the Interior allowed her to perform at the Lincoln Memorial.

[B20] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote about 'The swoon of a heart that the sweep and the hurl of thee trod / Hard down with a horror of height.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    Name this Victorian poet who wrote of 'Ten or twelve, only ten or twelve / Strokes of havoc' in "Binsey Poplars" and how 'Hope had grown grey hairs' in "The Wreck of the Deutschland".
  Part 2 (ans: "No worst, there is none [...]"):
    This poem by Hopkins, one of the group known as the Terrible Sonnets, asks 'Mary, mother of us, where is your relief?' It ends with the lines 'all / Life death does end and each day dies with sleep.'
  Part 3 (ans: Sprung Rhythm):
    Hopkins advocated this type of poetic rhythm as an alternative to what he described as Running Rhythm. Hopkins argued that this rhythm was the closest to that of natural speech.

[B21] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem begins with the instruction "With drum accompaniment," and its speaker regrets the "glimpse of a dream" that "lies smoldering in a cave." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Elegy for Alto"):
    Name this poem from the collection Path of Thunder whose speaker describes the raining down of eagles, robbers, and politicians. This poem's speaker implores the Earth, "unbind me" and "let this be my last testament."
  Part 2 (ans: Federal Republic of Nigeria):
    "Elegy for Alto" is by Christopher Okigbo, a poet from this country who died fighting for Biafran ("bee-OFF-run") independence.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland" (by Gerard Manley Hopkins)):
    Okigbo envisioned Nigeria as a "storm tossed ship" in the poem "Lament of the Silent Sisters," which was inspired by this British poem written in "happy memory of five Franciscan nuns."

[B22] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Reading this philosopher inspired a certain poet's fluid use of a term that generally corresponds to the idea that all creatures in the universe dynamically "self", or act out their identity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Duns Scotus):
    Identify this philosopher who inspired the notion of inscape. A poem about this philosopher's "Oxford" calls him he "who of all men most sways my spirits to peace" and concludes that he "fired France for Mary without spot."
  Part 2 (ans: Gerard Manley Hopkins):
    This poet used the words inscape and instress in his private journals, and was a lifelong friend of Robert Bridges. He is best known for employing sprung rhythm in poems like "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty."
  Part 3 (ans: "Carrion Comfort"):
    A late set of poems by Hopkins are known collectively as the "terrible sonnets" for their shared themes of desolation. This terrible sonnet closes with its speaker declaring "That night, that year / Of now done darkness I wretch lay wrestling with (my God!) my God."

[B23] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Harvey Washington Wiley was nicknamed the father of this legislation, and he served as the head chemist who carried out its compliance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pure Food and Drug Act):
    Name this 1906 law, passed concurrently with the Federal Meat Inspection Act, that implemented labeling disclosures on consumables.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Hopkins Adams):
    This author of "The Great American Fraud" worked as a muckraker to expose disingenuous medicines. His story "Night Bus" was adapted into the film It Happened One Night.

[B24] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Social Science
     Leadin: This man defended the thoughts of Margaret Washburn in his address given as head of the American Psychological Association, "The Interpretation of the Animal Mind." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harvey A. Carr [the "A" stands for nothing, except possibly awesome]):
    Name this functionalist who chaired the psychology department at Chicago for twelve years starting in 1926, but may be best remembered for being John Watson's assistant.
  Part 2 (ans: Kerplunk experiment):
    Carr helped Watson conduct this experiment, which proved the "chain of responses" theorem and was named for the noise made by rats when they ran into walls in shortened mazes.
  Part 3 (ans: Johns Hopkins University [make sure they say "Johns;" do not accept "John Hopkins University"]):
    Carr stepped in as chair after Watson moved on to this university, where he conducted the Little Albert Experiment, before being dismissed for having an affair with his graduate student Rosalie Rayner.

[B25] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This president's advisors included Frances Perkins, who became the first woman appointed to the United States Cabinet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [or:FDR]):
    Name this president who attempted to expand the Supreme Court with his "court packing plan."
  Part 2 (ans: Harry Hopkins):
    This FDR advisor ran the Works Progress Administration. Before American entrance into World War II, he coordinated unofficial negotiations with Winston Churchill.
  Part 3 (ans: Bernard Baruch):
    During World War II, Roosevelt offered to let this man replace Donald Nelson has head of the War Production Board. This member of the Brain Trust held a similar role with the War Industries Board during World War I.
