=== STOCK CLUES: Delmore Schwartz ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 3 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: frontal fog [accept word forms like foggy; prompt on "precipitation"] (The leadin is from "The Foggy, Foggy Blue" by Delmore Schwartz)
  - In a poem titled for a color and this substance, the speaker concludes, "The only only thing is to believe in everything" after deciding to join the "masked ball." The speaker lists "the glass side of a building lit up at night" in this substance as a "[marriage]... worth celebrating" in "Freely Espousing" by James Schuyler, who called this substance "greasy sense-eclipsing" while describing someone who can't see in "The Crystal Lithium." "The Great Depression had entered our souls like" this substance in a pantoum by Donald Justice. [PWR]
  - Elizabeth Bishop's (*) "Moose" evokes "the white hens' feathers, / in gray glazed cabbages" of this "shifty, salty, thin" substance, which another poem claims, "sits looking / over harbor and city / on silent haunches / and then moves on" after coming in "on little cat feet." For 10 points, name this title substance of a Sandburg poem, which "rubs its back upon the window-panes" in "The Love Song of J. [GIVE]
  - Alfred Prufrock."

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Leadin: It's not Dylan Thomas, but this poet's 1966 death from alcoholism in the Chelsea Hotel is discussed in John McDermott's poem "The Poet's Body, Unclaimed in the Manhattan Morgue". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this poet. He became the youngest winner of the Bollingen Prize for his 1959 collection Summer Knowledge, which includes "The Bear Who Goes With Me".
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet included an ode to Schwartz in the collection Life Studies, which also includes his poem "Skunk Hour". This friend of Elizabeth Bishop also wrote "For the Union Dead".
  Part 3 (ans: Dream Songs [accept 77 Dream Songs; accept His Toy, His Dream, His Rest]):
    Twelve elegies for Schwartz, more than for any other writer, appear in this collection by John Berryman, which includes the statement 'Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so'.

[B2] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A work dedicated to this poet reminisces about a time when "underseas fellows... drank and eyed the chicken-hearted shadows of the world" and observes "we poets begin in our youth in sadness; thereof in the end come despondency and madness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this author, who wrote a story about a man watching a video of his parents' courtship in "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities."
  Part 2 (ans: John Berryman):
    In addition to that Robert Lowell poem, Delmore Schwartz was also the dedicatee of twelve elegies by this poet. This poet wrote as "Henry" and claimed "Life, friends is boring. We must not say it so" in The Dream Songs.
  Part 3 (ans: Saul Bellow):
    Delmore Schwartz' career served as inspiration for the character Von Humboldt Fleisher in Humboldt's Gift, a novel by this Canadian-American author of Henderson the Rain King and The Adventures of Augie March.

[B3] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some poets who wrote about Charlie Chaplin, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Hart Crane [or Harold Hart Crane]):
    This poet wrote about how "we make our meek adjustments" in the first line of his poem "Chaplinesque" from the collection White Buildings.
  Part 2 (ans: Delmore Schwartz (That story is "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities.")):
    This author of the poem "Chaplin Upon the Cliff, Dining Alone" wrote a short story in which a man dreams that he's in a theater watching a movie about his parents' courtship.
  Part 3 (ans: Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg]):
    The image of "your mother" watching "Chaplin dance in youth" appears in "Kaddish," a poem by this Beat poet who wrote "Howl."

[B4] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, King Dahfu is on a quest to hunt the lion that he believes is that reincarnation of his dead father. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Henderson the Rain King):
    Name this novel whose protagonist is an American traveler who tries to get rid of the frogs in the cistern of the Arnewi, before he accidentally has the title honorific bestowed on him by the Wariri tribe.
  Part 2 (ans: Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]):
    Henderson the Rain King is by this 20th-century American author of The Adventures of Augie March and Humboldt's Gift.
  Part 3 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    The title character of Humboldt's Gift is modeled on this real-life mentor of Saul Bellow. This author of the short story "In Dreams Begins Responsibilities" had his poems collected in the volume Summer Knowledge.

[B5] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A particularly lyrical passage in this story describes two ocean waves somersaulting and arching "their backs so beautifully, showing white veins in the green and black." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities"):
    Name this story in which the narrator awakens on his twenty-first birthday after imagining that he is in a movie theatre, watching his parents' courtship.
  Part 2 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities" was written by this dedicatee of John Berryman's His Toy, His Dream, His Rest. This author of "In the Naked Bed, In Plato's Cave" was the basis for the title character of Saul Bellow's Humboldt's Gift.
  Part 3 (ans: Coney Island [accept A Coney Island of the Mind]):
    "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities" describes the narrator's parents going on a date at the boardwalk in this New York City location, though the mother disdains its amusement parks. Lawrence Ferlinghetti wrote a poetry collection titled for this place "of the Mind."

[B6] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's The Clerkenwell Tales borrows characters from The Canterbury Tales to tell the story of Clarice, a nun who prophesies about the death of Richard II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Ackroyd):
    Name this English author whose works often explore the history of London. He wrote Hawksmoor, a novel that follows a modern detective solving murders at churches designed by a Satanist associate of Christopher Wren.
  Part 2 (ans: Plato):
    Ackroyd wrote a novel titled for this philosopher's "papers," in which he is an orator in the 3700s who refers to The Origin of Species as a novel by Dickens and has visions of the past. This man wrote Meno and Euthyphro.
  Part 3 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    This man wrote of "the mystery of beginning again and again, while History is unforgiven" in his poem "In the Naked Bed, in Plato's Cave." This author was the model for the title character in Saul Bellow's Humboldt's Gift.

[B7] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This literary movement produced works which emphasized topics like personal emotional trauma, mental illness, and sexuality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Confessional poetry):
    Name this American poetry movement exemplified by writer such as Robert Lowell and Sylvia Plath.
  Part 2 (ans: The Dream Songs):
    John Berryman, a confessional poet, is best known for this collection focused on Henry, a character who sometimes appears in blackface and is occasionally addressed as Mr. Bones.
  Part 3 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Berryman was heavily introduced by this poet and short story author. His most famous story is "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities" which was inspired by the broken marriage of his parents.

[B8] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Langston Hughes wrote that we should "Hold fast to [these things]", for "if [these things] die, / Life is a broken-winged bird / That cannot fly". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dreams):
    Name these experiences, which partly title 385 Songs about the wanderer Henry by the 20th-cenutry poet John Berryman.
  Part 2 (ans: Edgar Allan Poe):
    This American poet of "Ulalume" asked "Is all that we see or seem / But a dream within a dream?" He also described a bird perched on a bust of Pallas in "The Raven".
  Part 3 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Berryman dedicated twelve elegies among his Dream Songs to this other poet, whose own work included the failed epic Genesis and a story in which a man sees his parents' romance on film, "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities".

[B9] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet told of an "inescapable animal" who "moves where I move, distorting my gesture" in "The Heavy Bear Who Goes With Me". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Identify this dedicatee of John Berryman's His Toy, His Dream, His Rest, an American poet who also wrote such short stories as "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities".
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV):
    This poet reminisced about Schwartz's stuffed duck and a kitten named Oranges in his poem "To Delmore Schwartz", which appears in his collection Life Studies, which also contains the poem "Skunk Hour".
  Part 3 (ans: Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellow]):
    Schwartz was the basis for Von Humboldt Fleischer, the protagonist of Humboldt's Gift, a novel by this Canadian-American author of Herzog and The Adventures of Augie March.

[B10] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's poems takes its epigraph, "the withness of the body," from the writings of his teacher Alfred North Whitehead. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this writer who described the "hungry beating brutish one / In love with candy, anger, and sleep" in "The Heavy Bear Who Goes With Me." He was the basis for the title character of Humboldt's Gift, written by Saul Bellow, who will appear eight times in this packet.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet remembers when he and Schwartz "drank and eyed / the chicken-hearted shadows of the world" in "To Delmore Schwartz." That poem was published in this man's collection Life Studies, which also contains everyone's favorite poem "Skunk Hour."
  Part 3 (ans: "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities"):
    Schwartz also wrote this short story in which the narrator dreams that he is seeing a film about his parents' courtship. It takes its title from the epigraph to a book of poetry by W. B. Yeats.

[B11] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet of "America, America!" and the drama Shenandoah included the poem "Coriolanus and His Mother" in a collection named for his most famous short story. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this poet of Summer Knowledge who wrote the aforementioned story in which a boy grows increasingly angry while witnessing a black-and-white film documenting his own parents' courtship, In Dreams Begin Responsibilities
  Part 2 (ans: the Dream Songs [accept His Toy, His Dream, His Rest, the name of the second collection]):
    Delmore Schwartz was the dedicatee of the second set of these John Berryman poems, which feature a narrator named Henry. One of these poems ends with the narrator lamenting his failure to murder and dismember a woman with the line "nobody is ever missing."
  Part 3 (ans: Saul Bellow):
    Charlie Citrine's friendship with the title Delmore Schwartz stand-in is central to Humboldt's Gift, a novel by this American Jewish author of Herzog and The Adventures of Augie March
