=== STOCK CLUES: In Dreams Begin Responsibilities ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities"
  - A woman in this story "shows with expressive face how interested she is, how impressed," as her dinner companion describes his plans to expand his business.
  - After weeping due to "the terrifying sun" and fleeing to the men's room, a character in this story returns to watch people making a seemingly "eternal circuit" on a merry-go-round.
  - This story's protagonist shouts, "What are they doing?
  - Don't they know what they're doing?" after two people argue over entering a fortune teller's booth.
  - In the last sentence of this story, the narrator wakes into "the bleak winter morning of my 21st birthday" and sees "the windowsill shining with its lip of snow, and the morning already begun." In this story, the protagonist imagines himself in an old movie theater watching the day of his parent's engagement at the Coney Island boardwalk.
  - For 10 points, name this best-known short story of Delmore Schwartz. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some poets who wrote about Charlie Chaplin, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Hart Crane [or Harold Hart Crane]):
    This poet wrote about how "we make our meek adjustments" in the first line of his poem "Chaplinesque" from the collection White Buildings.
  Part 2 (ans: Delmore Schwartz (That story is "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities.")):
    This author of the poem "Chaplin Upon the Cliff, Dining Alone" wrote a short story in which a man dreams that he's in a theater watching a movie about his parents' courtship.
  Part 3 (ans: Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg]):
    The image of "your mother" watching "Chaplin dance in youth" appears in "Kaddish," a poem by this Beat poet who wrote "Howl."

[B2] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A particularly lyrical passage in this story describes two ocean waves somersaulting and arching "their backs so beautifully, showing white veins in the green and black." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities"):
    Name this story in which the narrator awakens on his twenty-first birthday after imagining that he is in a movie theatre, watching his parents' courtship.
  Part 2 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities" was written by this dedicatee of John Berryman's His Toy, His Dream, His Rest. This author of "In the Naked Bed, In Plato's Cave" was the basis for the title character of Saul Bellow's Humboldt's Gift.
  Part 3 (ans: Coney Island [accept A Coney Island of the Mind]):
    "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities" describes the narrator's parents going on a date at the boardwalk in this New York City location, though the mother disdains its amusement parks. Lawrence Ferlinghetti wrote a poetry collection titled for this place "of the Mind."

[B3] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's poems takes its epigraph, "the withness of the body," from the writings of his teacher Alfred North Whitehead. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Delmore Schwartz):
    Name this writer who described the "hungry beating brutish one / In love with candy, anger, and sleep" in "The Heavy Bear Who Goes With Me." He was the basis for the title character of Humboldt's Gift, written by Saul Bellow, who will appear eight times in this packet.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Lowell):
    This poet remembers when he and Schwartz "drank and eyed / the chicken-hearted shadows of the world" in "To Delmore Schwartz." That poem was published in this man's collection Life Studies, which also contains everyone's favorite poem "Skunk Hour."
  Part 3 (ans: "In Dreams Begin Responsibilities"):
    Schwartz also wrote this short story in which the narrator dreams that he is seeing a film about his parents' courtship. It takes its title from the epigraph to a book of poetry by W. B. Yeats.
