Adams-Onis treaty	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1819 treaty in which Spain ceded Florida to the US and defined the western boundary of the Louisiana Purchase.
Adlai Ewing Stevenson II	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Illinois governor and two-time Democratic presidential nominee, defeated by Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956.
AIDS epidemic	Contemporary America	Public health crisis emerging in the 1980s that disproportionately affected gay men and spurred activism like ACT UP.
Al Capone	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Chicago Prohibition-era gangster ultimately convicted of tax evasion in 1931.
Alexander Mitchell Palmer	The Progressive Era and World War I	Attorney General who directed the post-WWI "Palmer Raids" rounding up suspected radicals during the Red Scare.
Alexis de Tocqueville	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	French observer whose Democracy in America analyzed American society and politics in the Jacksonian era.
Alger Hiss	The Cold War and Civil Rights	State Department official convicted of perjury in a Cold War espionage case that launched Nixon's career.
Alta California	Colonial America	Spanish, later Mexican, province encompassing present-day California before US annexation.
Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca	Colonial America	Spanish explorer whose shipwreck and years wandering the Gulf Coast produced an early account of the American Southwest.
America First Committee	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Isolationist organization, fronted by Charles Lindbergh, opposing US entry into World War II.
American flag	American Revolution and the Founding	National banner whose stars-and-stripes design dates to the Revolutionary era, traditionally credited to Betsy Ross.
American football	The Gilded Age and the West	Sport that developed from rugby in late-19th-century college contests, notably at Ivy League schools.
American System	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Henry Clay's economic program of tariffs, a national bank, and internal improvements to bind the nation together.
Anaconda Plan	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union strategy devised by Winfield Scott to blockade Southern ports and split the Confederacy along the Mississippi.
Andersonville Prison	Civil War and Reconstruction	Notorious Confederate POW camp in Georgia where thousands of Union prisoners died of disease and starvation.
Andrew	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America
Angel Island	The Gilded Age and the West	San Francisco Bay immigration station, the "Ellis Island of the West," that processed mostly Asian immigrants under exclusionary scrutiny.
Angela Davis	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Black Panther-affiliated activist and scholar tried and acquitted for her alleged role in a 1970 courtroom shootout.
Annette Gordon-Reed	Contemporary America	Historian whose Pulitzer-winning work established Thomas Jefferson's paternity of Sally Hemings's children.
Anti-Federalist Papers	American Revolution and the Founding	Essays opposing ratification of the Constitution, warning of excessive central power and demanding a Bill of Rights.
Antinomian controversy	Colonial America	1636-38 Massachusetts Bay religious dispute centered on Anne Hutchinson's challenge to Puritan orthodoxy.
antitrust law	The Gilded Age and the West	Legal framework, beginning with the 1890 Sherman Act, aimed at breaking up monopolies like Standard Oil.
Apollo 1 fire	Contemporary America	1967 launch-pad fire that killed three astronauts, delaying the Apollo moon program.
Apollo 11	Contemporary America	1969 mission that achieved the first crewed Moon landing, with Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin.
Arab-Americans	Contemporary America	Immigrant community that grew substantially in the 20th century, facing increased scrutiny after the September 11 attacks.
Arizona Territory	States, Territories, and Cities	Southwestern territory organized 1863, gained via the Mexican Cession and Gadsden Purchase; became a state in 1912.
Aroostook War	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Bloodless 1838-39 US-Canada border dispute over Maine's boundary, resolved by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty.
Astor family	The Gilded Age and the West	Wealthy dynasty founded by fur trader John Jacob Astor, later prominent in New York real estate and society.
astronauts	Contemporary America	Space explorers of NASA's Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo programs during the Cold War Space Race.
Atlantic City, New Jersey	States, Territories, and Cities	New Jersey seaside resort city later known for gambling and hosting the 1964 Democratic National Convention.
attack on Pearl Harbor	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Japan's December 1941 surprise strike on the Hawaiian naval base that brought the US into World War II.
Australia	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	WWII Pacific-theater ally allied with the US against Japan.
aviation industry	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Aircraft manufacturing sector that boomed during World War II production and the postwar jet age.
Bancroft	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America
banks	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Financial institutions at the center of Jackson's Bank War and recurring 19th-century panics.
barbed wire	The Gilded Age and the West	Fencing invention that ended the open range and transformed Western ranching and land disputes.
Barnburners	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Antislavery faction of New York Democrats who split from the party over the Wilmot Proviso.
baseball	The Gilded Age and the West	National pastime professionalized in the late 1800s, later integrated by Jackie Robinson in 1947.
Battle of Bunker Hill	American Revolution and the Founding	1775 costly British victory near Boston that demonstrated colonial militia could stand against regulars.
Battle of Camden	American Revolution and the Founding	1780 disastrous American defeat in South Carolina that routed General Gates's forces.
Battle of Lake Erie	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1813 naval victory where Oliver Hazard Perry declared "We have met the enemy and they are ours."
Battle of Malvern Hill	Civil War and Reconstruction	1862 battle ending the Seven Days Battles, where massed Union artillery repelled Confederate assaults.
Battle of Perryville	Civil War and Reconstruction	1862 battle in Kentucky that ended Braxton Bragg's Confederate invasion of the state.
Battle of Spotsylvania Court House	Civil War and Reconstruction	1864 brutal Overland Campaign battle featuring intense fighting at the "Bloody Angle."
Bay of Pigs Invasion	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Failed 1961 CIA-backed invasion of Cuba by exiles seeking to overthrow Castro.
Bayonet Constitution	The Gilded Age and the West	1887 document forced on Hawaii's King Kalakaua at gunpoint, stripping the monarchy of power in favor of American and European businessmen.
Bear Flag Revolt	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1846 uprising by American settlers declaring California's independence from Mexico.
Benjamin Banneker	American Revolution and the Founding	Free Black mathematician and astronomer who helped survey the boundaries of Washington, D.C.
Benjamin Lincoln	American Revolution and the Founding	Continental Army general who accepted Cornwallis's sword at the Yorktown surrender.
Bernardo de Galvez	American Revolution and the Founding	Spanish governor of Louisiana who aided the American cause by fighting the British along the Gulf Coast.
bison	The Gilded Age and the West	Plains animal nearly hunted to extinction in the 19th century, undermining Native American subsistence.
Black Hills	The Gilded Age and the West	South Dakota mountains sacred to the Lakota, whose 1874 gold discovery triggered treaty violations and war.
Black Panthers	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Militant Black self-defense and community-service organization founded in Oakland in 1966.
Black Power	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Militant strand of the civil rights movement emphasizing Black self-determination and pride, associated with Stokely Carmichael.
Blackbeard	Colonial America	Notorious pirate (Edward Teach) who terrorized the Atlantic coast before being killed off North Carolina in 1718.
Bleeding Kansas	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Violent 1850s conflict between pro- and anti-slavery settlers in Kansas Territory following the Kansas-Nebraska Act.
Bob Woodward	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Washington Post reporter, with Carl Bernstein, whose Watergate investigation helped bring down Nixon.
Booth family	Civil War and Reconstruction	Family of actors including John Wilkes Booth, who assassinated Lincoln in 1865.
braceros	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Mexican guest workers admitted under a WWII-era program to fill US agricultural labor shortages.
Braxton Bragg	Civil War and Reconstruction	Confederate general who commanded the Army of Tennessee, notably at Chickamauga and Perryville.
Brooklyn Bridge	The Gilded Age and the West	Landmark suspension bridge completed 1883 connecting Manhattan and Brooklyn, engineered by the Roebling family.
Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1954 Supreme Court case unanimously declaring public school segregation unconstitutional.
Buffalo, New York	States, Territories, and Cities	New York city on Lake Erie, site of President McKinley's 1901 assassination at the Pan-American Exposition.
Caroline Affair	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1837 diplomatic incident where Canadian loyalists burned an American ship aiding rebels, straining US-British relations.
carpetbaggers	Civil War and Reconstruction	Derogatory term for Northerners who moved South during Reconstruction, often to participate in Republican politics.
Carter Glass	The Progressive Era and World War I	Virginia senator and co-author of the Federal Reserve Act and later Glass-Steagall Act.
Casimir Pulaski	American Revolution and the Founding	Polish cavalry officer who fought for American independence and died at the Siege of Savannah.
Cato	Colonial America
Cesar Estrada Chavez	Contemporary America	Full name of the labor leader who co-founded the United Farm Workers.
Chaco Canyon	Colonial America	New Mexico site of major pre-Columbian Ancestral Puebloan great houses and ceremonial architecture.
Charles Cotesworth Pinckney	American Revolution and the Founding	South Carolina Federalist statesman and diplomat, twice a presidential candidate, remembered for the XYZ Affair retort "millions for defense."
Charles Dana Gibson	The Gilded Age and the West	Illustrator whose "Gibson Girl" defined a popular ideal of American femininity around 1900.
Charles Grandison Finney	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Revivalist preacher central to the Second Great Awakening, known for emotional "new measures" revivals.
Charles Julius Guiteau	The Gilded Age and the West	Full name of the disappointed office-seeker who assassinated President Garfield in 1881.
Charles Ponzi	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Swindler whose 1920s investment fraud scheme gave its name to the "Ponzi scheme."
Chautauqua Institution	The Gilded Age and the West	Adult education and cultural movement offering traveling lectures and entertainment to rural communities.
Checkers speech	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Nixon's 1952 televised address defending himself against slush-fund allegations, named for his dog.
Chester Alan Arthur	The Gilded Age and the West	21st President who succeeded the assassinated Garfield and surprised critics by championing civil service reform.
Chicago Tribune	States, Territories, and Cities	Major Chicago newspaper, infamous for its mistaken 1948 "Dewey Defeats Truman" headline.
Chief Seattle	The Gilded Age and the West	Suquamish and Duwamish leader for whom the city of Seattle is named, known for a speech on Native land loss.
