Herbert Clark Hoover	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Full name of the 31st President, whose limited response to the Depression's onset cost him reelection.
Hiram Johnson	The Progressive Era and World War I	Progressive California governor and Bull Moose VP nominee; later an isolationist senator.
Hoovervilles	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Shantytowns of homeless people during the Great Depression, named derisively for Herbert Hoover.
House of Burgesses	Colonial America	First representative assembly in English North America, established in Virginia in 1619.
Hugo Black	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	FDR-appointed Supreme Court justice and former Klan member who became a civil-liberties champion.
IBM	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Computing and business-machine corporation that grew through government contracts from the New Deal era onward.
indentured servants	Colonial America	Laborers bound to work a set term in exchange for passage to the colonies, an early source of unfree labor.
International Workers of the World	The Progressive Era and World War I	Alternate name for the IWW, the radical "Wobblies" labor union.
Intolerable Acts	American Revolution and the Founding	1774 punitive British laws closing Boston's port after the Tea Party, provoking the First Continental Congress.
Iowa	States, Territories, and Cities	Midwest farm state admitted 1846, site of the nation's first-in-the-nation caucuses.
Iroquois League	Colonial America	Six Nations confederacy of upstate New York, largely allied with the British during the Revolution.
Jackie Robinson	The Cold War and Civil Rights	First Black player in modern Major League Baseball, breaking the color line with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947.
James Abram Garfield	The Gilded Age and the West	Full name of the 20th President, assassinated by Charles Guiteau in 1881.
James Callender	American Revolution and the Founding	Scandal-mongering journalist who first publicized the Jefferson-Hemings relationship allegations.
James K. Polk	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	11th President who annexed Texas and Oregon and won the Mexican-American War, fulfilling manifest destiny.
James Knox Polk	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Full name of the 11th President.
James Meredith	The Cold War and Civil Rights	First Black student to integrate the University of Mississippi in 1962, amid violent riots.
James William Fulbright	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Arkansas senator who created the Fulbright scholarship program and chaired hearings against the Vietnam War.
Jane Addams	The Progressive Era and World War I	Social reformer who founded Hull House in Chicago, pioneering the settlement house movement.
Japanese American internment	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Forced WWII relocation of Japanese-Americans to camps under Executive Order 9066.
Jay Cooke	Civil War and Reconstruction	Financier who marketed Civil War bonds; his firm's 1873 failure triggered a nationwide panic.
Jimmy Hoffa	Contemporary America	Teamsters union leader with organized-crime ties who mysteriously disappeared in 1975.
John Charles Fremont	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Full name of the explorer ("Pathfinder") and first Republican presidential nominee.
John Edgar Hoover	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Full name of the longtime FBI director who ran COINTELPRO against civil rights and radical groups.
John Glenn	The Cold War and Civil Rights	First American to orbit Earth (1962); later a longtime Ohio senator.
John Milton Hay	The Gilded Age and the West	Full name of Lincoln's secretary turned Secretary of State who authored the Open Door Policy.
John Reed	The Progressive Era and World War I	American journalist who chronicled the Russian Revolution in Ten Days That Shook the World.
John Sherman	The Gilded Age and the West	Ohio senator and Treasury Secretary, namesake of the Sherman Antitrust Act.
Joseph McCarthy	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Wisconsin senator who led sensationalized anti-communist investigations in the early 1950s ("McCarthyism").
Joseph Pulitzer	The Gilded Age and the West	Newspaper publisher whose "yellow journalism" rivalry with Hearst helped push the US toward war with Spain.
Kansas-Nebraska Act	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1854 law organizing two territories under popular sovereignty, igniting "Bleeding Kansas" violence.
Lenni Lenape	Colonial America	Also called the Delaware; Algonquian nation of the mid-Atlantic who negotiated early treaties with William Penn.
liberty	American Revolution and the Founding	Central Revolutionary-era rallying concept behind the Sons of Liberty and Patrick Henry's "Give me liberty" rhetoric.
London	Colonial America
Long	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Likely refers to Huey Long, the populist Louisiana governor and senator of the 1930s "Share Our Wealth" movement.
longhouses	Colonial America	Traditional multi-family dwellings of the Iroquois nations of the Northeast.
Los Angeles, California	States, Territories, and Cities	Southern California city built around the film and aerospace industries.
Lost Cause of the Confederacy	Civil War and Reconstruction	Post-war ideology romanticizing the Confederacy and downplaying slavery's role in causing the Civil War.
lynching	The Gilded Age and the West	Extralegal mob killings, mostly of Black Southerners, prevalent from the 1880s through the mid-20th century.
manifest destiny	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	19th-century belief that the US was destined to expand across the continent, justifying territorial acquisitions.
Marcus Garvey	The Progressive Era and World War I	Jamaican-born Black nationalist who founded the UNIA and promoted Pan-Africanism and Black economic self-reliance.
Marquis de Lafayette	American Revolution and the Founding	French aristocrat who volunteered for the Continental Army and became a key ally of Washington.
Mary McLeod Bethune	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Educator and civil rights leader who advised FDR and led his informal "Black Cabinet."
Mercy Otis Warren	American Revolution and the Founding	Massachusetts writer whose plays and pamphlets promoted the patriot cause; later wrote an early history of the Revolution.
Meriwether Lewis	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Co-leader with William Clark of the expedition exploring the Louisiana Purchase to the Pacific.
Methodism	Colonial America	Protestant denomination that spread rapidly in America through revivalism and circuit riders.
Meyer Lansky	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Organized-crime financier who helped build national gambling syndicates during Prohibition and after.
Missouri River	States, Territories, and Cities	Major tributary of the Mississippi followed by Lewis and Clark on their westward expedition.
Mohawk	Colonial America	Easternmost nation of the Iroquois Confederacy, based in what is now upstate New York.
Montgomery, Alabama	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Alabama capital, site of the 1955-56 bus boycott sparked by Rosa Parks.
mounds	Colonial America	Earthen ceremonial and burial structures built by pre-Columbian Mississippian and earlier Native cultures.
MOVE	Contemporary America	Philadelphia-based Black liberation group whose 1985 standoff ended when police bombed its house, killing eleven.
music industry	The Gilded Age and the West	Recorded-music business born from Edison's phonograph and Tin Pan Alley song publishing in the late 19th century.
Myles Standish	Colonial America	Military commander of Plymouth Colony who helped defend the Pilgrim settlement.
NAFTA	Contemporary America	1994 free-trade agreement among the US, Canada, and Mexico signed under Clinton.
Nathan Bedford Forrest	Civil War and Reconstruction	Confederate cavalry general blamed for the Fort Pillow massacre; later the first Grand Wizard of the Ku Klux Klan.
Navigation Acts	Colonial America	British trade laws restricting colonial commerce to English ships and ports, a source of pre-Revolutionary friction.
Nelson Aldrich	The Gilded Age and the West	Powerful Rhode Island senator and financial reformer whose plan shaped the Federal Reserve System.
New Bedford	States, Territories, and Cities	Massachusetts port that was the world's leading whaling center in the 19th century.
New Sweden	Colonial America	Short-lived 1638-55 Swedish colony along the Delaware River, later absorbed by the Dutch and English.
Niagara Falls	States, Territories, and Cities	New York/Canada border landmark and early hydroelectric power site.
nine	The Cold War and Civil Rights
Ohio River	States, Territories, and Cities	Major waterway forming the boundary of the Northwest Territory and a route for westward settlement.
oil	The Gilded Age and the West	Petroleum industry built by Rockefeller's Standard Oil into one of the era's dominant monopolies.
oil industry	The Gilded Age and the West	Petroleum sector centered on Rockefeller's Standard Oil monopoly, later broken up by antitrust action.
Panic of 1819	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	First major peacetime financial crisis in US history, triggered by speculative land bubbles and tightened credit.
Panic of 1873	The Gilded Age and the West	Financial crisis triggered by railroad overexpansion and Jay Cooke's bank failure, causing a long depression.
Pat Brown	Contemporary America	California governor, father of Jerry Brown, defeated by Reagan in the 1966 gubernatorial race.
Paul Volcker	Contemporary America	Federal Reserve chairman whose high-interest-rate policy broke 1970s-80s inflation.
Paxton Boys	Colonial America	Pennsylvania frontier vigilantes who massacred peaceful Native Americans in 1763 and marched on Philadelphia.
Pearl Harbor	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Hawaiian naval base attacked by Japan in December 1941, drawing the US into World War II.
Peggy Eaton	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Wife of Jackson's Secretary of War whose social ostracism sparked the "Petticoat Affair" cabinet scandal.
Philander Chase Knox	The Progressive Era and World War I	Attorney General and Secretary of State known for "Dollar Diplomacy" under Taft.
Pinkerton National Detective Agency	The Gilded Age and the West	Private security firm hired by industrialists to break strikes, notably at Homestead in 1892.
polygamy	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Marriage practice of early Mormon settlers that delayed Utah's statehood until the church renounced it.
Pony Express	The Gilded Age and the West	Short-lived 1860-61 horseback mail relay service across the West, quickly made obsolete by the telegraph.
Powhatan	Colonial America	Paramount chief of the Tidewater Virginia confederacy encountered by the Jamestown colonists; father of Pocahontas.
Powhatan Confederacy	Colonial America	Alliance of Tidewater Virginia nations under Chief Powhatan that first interacted with the Jamestown settlers.
Prigg v. Pennsylvania	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1842 Supreme Court case upholding federal fugitive slave law over state personal-liberty laws.
public schools	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Common school system championed by reformers like Horace Mann in the antebellum era.
