Battle of Bladensburg	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1814 rout of American militia that opened the road for the British burning of Washington.
Battle of the Alamo	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1836 siege in San Antonio where Texas defenders including Bowie, Crockett, and Travis died fighting Santa Anna's army.
birth control	Contemporary America	Reproductive-rights issue championed by Margaret Sanger and later contested in cases like Griswold v. Connecticut and Roe v. Wade.
Bracero program	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	WWII-era guest-worker program bringing Mexican laborers to fill US agricultural labor shortages, continuing into the 1960s.
Buck v. Bell	The Progressive Era and World War I	1927 Supreme Court decision upholding forced sterilization, infamous for Holmes's line "three generations of imbeciles are enough."
Cesar Chavez	Contemporary America	Labor leader who co-founded the United Farm Workers and led boycotts for Mexican-American farmworkers' rights.
COINTELPRO	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Covert FBI counterintelligence program that surveilled and disrupted civil rights and radical political groups.
Cuban-Americans	Contemporary America	Immigrant community concentrated in Miami, grown especially after Castro's revolution and events like the Mariel boatlift.
Eleanor Roosevelt	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Activist First Lady who championed civil rights and later chaired the UN commission drafting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Emancipation Proclamation	Civil War and Reconstruction	Lincoln's 1863 executive order declaring enslaved people in Confederate territory free.
Emma Goldman	The Progressive Era and World War I	Anarchist writer and activist deported during the Red Scare for her radical politics.
Eric Foner	Contemporary America	Historian best known for his influential studies of Reconstruction and American freedom.
farmers	The Gilded Age and the West	Agrarian class whose debt and rate grievances fueled the Grange and Populist movements of the late 1800s.
Filipino-Americans	The Gilded Age and the West	Immigrant group arriving after US annexation of the Philippines, working largely in West Coast agriculture.
First Battle of Bull Run	Civil War and Reconstruction	First major land battle of the Civil War (1861), a surprising Confederate victory near Manassas, Virginia.
Ford Motor Company	The Gilded Age and the West	Automaker founded by Henry Ford, pioneer of the moving assembly line and $5 workday.
France	American Revolution and the Founding	Key ally that provided troops, navy, and funding securing American independence at Yorktown.
Franklin Pierce	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	14th President whose support for the Kansas-Nebraska Act deepened sectional strife.
French and Indian War	Colonial America	1754-63 North American theater of the Seven Years' War, ending French colonial power and setting up British tax disputes.
Geronimo	The Gilded Age and the West	Apache leader who led the last major Native resistance campaign before surrendering in 1886.
gold	The Gilded Age and the West	Precious metal whose 1848 California discovery and later Western strikes drove mining rushes and monetary politics.
Grover Cleveland	The Gilded Age and the West	Only president to serve two non-consecutive terms (22nd and 24th); vetoed pensions and battled the Panic of 1893.
Hamilton Fish	Civil War and Reconstruction	Secretary of State under Grant who negotiated the Treaty of Washington settling Civil War-era claims against Britain.
Harriet Tubman	Civil War and Reconstruction	Escaped slave who led dozens to freedom on the Underground Railroad and served as a Union scout and spy.
Henry Kissinger	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Nixon/Ford Secretary of State who pursued detente with the USSR and China and negotiated the end of US involvement in Vietnam.
Henry Ward Beecher	Civil War and Reconstruction	Prominent abolitionist preacher, brother of Harriet Beecher Stowe, later embroiled in a notorious adultery scandal.
Homestead strike	The Gilded Age and the West	Violent 1892 clash between Carnegie Steel workers and Pinkerton guards at Andrew Carnegie's Pennsylvania plant.
Horace Mann	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Reformer known as the "father of American public education" for building Massachusetts's common school system.
House Un-American Activities Committee	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Congressional committee investigating alleged communist influence, notorious for Hollywood blacklists and the Hiss case.
Idaho	States, Territories, and Cities	Northwestern mining state admitted 1890; part of the earlier Oregon Country dispute.
Iran-Contra affair	Contemporary America	Reagan-era scandal in which arms sales to Iran illegally funded Nicaraguan Contra rebels.
James Edward Oglethorpe	Colonial America	Full name of Georgia's founder, who envisioned the colony as a refuge for debtors.
James Gillespie Blaine	The Gilded Age and the West	Full name of the Republican "Continental Liar from the State of Maine," the 1884 presidential nominee.
James Monroe	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	5th President whose "Era of Good Feelings" produced the Monroe Doctrine opposing European colonization in the Americas.
Japanese-Americans	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Community forcibly relocated to internment camps under Executive Order 9066 during World War II.
John Marshall	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Long-serving Chief Justice who established judicial review in Marbury v. Madison and strengthened federal power.
John Pierpont Morgan	The Gilded Age and the West	Banker who consolidated industries like steel (US Steel) and personally stabilized markets during the Panic of 1907.
Joseph Story	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Long-serving Supreme Court justice and legal scholar known for his influential Commentaries on the Constitution.
Lenape	Colonial America	Also called the Delaware; Algonquian nation of the mid-Atlantic who negotiated early treaties with William Penn.
Loyalists	American Revolution and the Founding	Colonists who remained faithful to the British Crown during the Revolution, many later fleeing to Canada.
Manhattan Project	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Secret WWII program that developed the atomic bomb, led by Oppenheimer at Los Alamos.
Mississippian culture	Colonial America	Pre-Columbian Native civilization known for mound-building centers like Cahokia.
Mother Jones	The Gilded Age and the West	Fiery labor organizer who campaigned against child labor and for coal miners' unions.
Nellie Bly	The Gilded Age and the West	Investigative journalist famed for feigning insanity to expose asylum abuses and for circling the globe in under 80 days.
newspapers	The Gilded Age and the West	Mass-circulation press whose "yellow journalism," led by Pulitzer and Hearst, shaped public opinion toward war with Spain.
Paul Revere	American Revolution and the Founding	Silversmith famed for his midnight ride warning of British troop movements before Lexington and Concord.
Plymouth Colony	Colonial America	Separatist Pilgrim settlement founded 1620 after arriving on the Mayflower; site of the first Thanksgiving.
Pocahontas	Colonial America	Powhatan leader's daughter whose relations with Jamestown colonists, including marriage to John Rolfe, eased early tensions.
Poor People's Campaign	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1968 Martin Luther King Jr.-organized march on Washington demanding economic justice for the poor.
Populist Party	The Gilded Age and the West	Agrarian third party of the 1890s advocating free silver and railroad regulation, epitomized by William Jennings Bryan.
Progressive Party	The Progressive Era and World War I	"Bull Moose" party formed by Theodore Roosevelt in 1912 to challenge Taft on reform issues.
Richard Mentor Johnson	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Van Buren's vice president, reputed to have killed Tecumseh at the Battle of the Thames.
Richmond	Civil War and Reconstruction	Capital of the Confederacy, captured by Union forces in April 1865.
Robert Moses	Contemporary America	New York "master builder" whose highways and public projects reshaped the city, later criticized for urban destruction.
Roger Brooke Taney	Civil War and Reconstruction	Chief Justice who wrote the 1857 Dred Scott decision denying Black Americans citizenship.
Roscoe Conkling	The Gilded Age and the West	New York "Stalwart" Republican senator and patronage boss who clashed with President Garfield.
Sacagawea	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Shoshone woman who guided and interpreted for the Lewis and Clark Expedition.
Sand Creek Massacre	The Gilded Age and the West	1864 attack by Colorado militia that slaughtered a peaceful Cheyenne and Arapaho encampment.
Savannah	States, Territories, and Cities	Georgia's first city, founded by James Oglethorpe in 1733; endpoint of Sherman's March to the Sea.
steel	The Gilded Age and the West	Industry dominated by Andrew Carnegie's mills and later US Steel, symbolizing industrial-era capitalism.
Teapot Dome scandal	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Bribery scandal over leased naval oil reserves that disgraced the Harding administration.
Ted Kennedy	Contemporary America	Long-serving Massachusetts senator and last surviving Kennedy brother, a leading liberal voice for decades.
telegraphy	The Gilded Age and the West	Communication technology pioneered by Samuel Morse that transformed news, business, and rail coordination.
temperance	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Reform movement against alcohol consumption, later culminating in Prohibition under the 18th Amendment.
Upton Sinclair	The Progressive Era and World War I	Muckraking author of The Jungle, whose expose of meatpacking spurred the Pure Food and Drug Act.
Utah	States, Territories, and Cities	Territory settled by Mormon migrants under Brigham Young; statehood delayed by the polygamy dispute until 1896.
Winfield Scott	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	"Old Fuss and Feathers" general who won the Mexican-American War's Mexico City campaign; later a Whig presidential nominee.
Wounded Knee	The Gilded Age and the West	Site of the 1890 massacre of Lakota Ghost Dancers by US troops, and later a 1973 AIM occupation.
Wounded Knee Massacre	The Gilded Age and the West	1890 killing of Lakota Ghost Dance followers by the US Army in South Dakota, ending the Indian Wars.
XYZ Affair	American Revolution and the Founding	1797-98 diplomatic scandal in which French agents demanded bribes from US envoys, provoking the Quasi War.
Zoot Suit riots	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1943 Los Angeles clashes between white servicemen and Mexican-American youths.
"Strange Fruit"	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Billie Holiday song protesting lynching, based on a poem about Southern hangings.
1930s	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II
1960s	The Cold War and Civil Rights
1964	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Year of the Civil Rights Act, the Gulf of Tonkin incident, and Johnson's landslide election.
1968	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Year of the Tet Offensive, the MLK and RFK assassinations, and a chaotic Democratic convention.
Aimee Semple McPherson	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Charismatic Pentecostal evangelist and radio pioneer who built the Angelus Temple in Los Angeles.
air traffic controllers	Contemporary America	Federal workers whose 1981 strike Reagan broke by firing them en masse, a landmark labor-relations moment.
Albany Congress	Colonial America	1754 meeting where Benjamin Franklin proposed his unadopted Plan of Union among the colonies.
American Revolution	American Revolution and the Founding	1765-1783 colonial movement for independence from Britain, culminating in war and the founding of the United States.
