Barack Obama	Contemporary America	44th President (2009-17), first Black president; passed the Affordable Care Act amid the Great Recession.
Battle of Blair Mountain	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1921 armed uprising of West Virginia coal miners against mine owners, the largest labor uprising in US history.
Battle of Brandywine Creek	American Revolution and the Founding	1777 British victory in Pennsylvania that opened the way to capturing Philadelphia.
Battle of Fort Donelson	Civil War and Reconstruction	1862 Union victory in Tennessee where Grant demanded "unconditional surrender," earning his nickname.
Battle of Franklin	Civil War and Reconstruction	1864 disastrous Confederate assault in Tennessee that decimated the Army of Tennessee's officer corps.
Battle of Fredericksburg	Civil War and Reconstruction	1862 lopsided Confederate victory in Virginia where Union troops made futile assaults on entrenched heights.
Battle of Little Bighorn	The Gilded Age and the West	1876 battle where Custer's cavalry was annihilated by Lakota and Cheyenne forces.
Battle of Midway	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1942 decisive US naval victory over Japan that turned the tide of the Pacific War.
Battle of Monmouth	American Revolution and the Founding	1778 New Jersey battle marking the Continental Army's improved discipline after Valley Forge training.
Battle of Yorktown	American Revolution and the Founding	1781 siege where Cornwallis's surrender to Washington and French forces effectively ended the Revolutionary War.
Bayard Rustin	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Openly gay civil rights strategist who organized the 1963 March on Washington.
Benjamin	American Revolution and the Founding
Betty Friedan	Contemporary America	Author of The Feminine Mystique (1963) and co-founder of NOW, a leading figure of second-wave feminism.
bicycles	The Gilded Age and the West	Late-19th-century transportation craze that promoted women's mobility and dress reform.
Billy Graham	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Evangelist whose mass crusades and presidential access made him a leading figure of postwar American Christianity.
Booker Taliaferro Washington	The Gilded Age and the West	Full name of the educator who founded Tuskegee Institute and urged Black economic self-help.
Boss Tweed	The Gilded Age and the West	Corrupt leader of New York's Tammany Hall machine, exposed by cartoonist Thomas Nast.
Boston Massacre	American Revolution and the Founding	1770 killing of five colonists by British soldiers, used as propaganda for the independence cause.
Bourbon democrats	The Gilded Age and the West	Pro-business, small-government faction of the post-Reconstruction Democratic Party.
Brazil	States, Territories, and Cities	South American nation occasionally referenced in US trade and Cold War contexts.
Brigham Young	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Mormon leader who succeeded Joseph Smith and led the migration to Utah, founding Salt Lake City.
Buckley	Contemporary America	Surname of William F. Buckley Jr., conservative intellectual who founded National Review.
Butte, Montana	The Gilded Age and the West	Montana mining city whose massive copper deposits fueled Gilded Age industrial fortunes.
Cahokia	Colonial America	Largest pre-Columbian Mississippian city, near modern St. Louis, known for its earthen mounds.
Cassius Marcellus Clay	Civil War and Reconstruction	Kentucky abolitionist and Lincoln's minister to Russia, known for his fiery antislavery advocacy.
cattle	The Gilded Age and the West	Ranching industry driving Texas cattle drives along trails like the Chisholm Trail to railheads.
Charles Guiteau	The Gilded Age and the West	Disappointed office-seeker who assassinated President Garfield in 1881, spurring civil-service reform.
Chase	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America
Chinatowns	The Gilded Age and the West	Ethnic enclaves formed by Chinese immigrants in Western cities amid exclusion-era discrimination.
Chinese Exclusion Act	The Gilded Age and the West	1882 law banning Chinese immigration, the first major US law restricting immigration by nationality.
cigars	The Gilded Age and the West	Manufactured good produced heavily by Cuban and immigrant labor in cities like Tampa and Key West.
Cincinnati	States, Territories, and Cities	Ohio River city that grew as a 19th-century meatpacking and manufacturing hub ("Porkopolis").
Coca-Cola	The Gilded Age and the West	Atlanta-invented soft drink (1886) that became a symbol of American consumer capitalism.
Cochise	The Gilded Age and the West	Chiricahua Apache leader who resisted US expansion into Arizona before making peace in 1872.
Colin Luther Powell	Contemporary America	First Black Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, key figure in the Gulf War and Iraq War buildup.
Columbia University	States, Territories, and Cities	New York City Ivy League school, founded as colonial King's College, site of major 1968 and later student protests.
Commonwealth of Kentucky	States, Territories, and Cities	Border state; site of Jefferson's Kentucky Resolutions; Lincoln's birthplace.
Confederate States of America	Civil War and Reconstruction	Breakaway slaveholding republic of eleven seceded Southern states, led by Jefferson Davis (1861-65).
Conscription	The Progressive Era and World War I	Military draft policy implemented in WWI and WWII, later a flashpoint of Vietnam-era protest.
Conway Cabal	American Revolution and the Founding	Alleged 1777-78 plot by officers to replace Washington as Continental Army commander.
Copperheads	Civil War and Reconstruction	Northern Democrats who opposed the Civil War and favored a negotiated peace with the Confederacy.
Corwin Amendment	Civil War and Reconstruction	Never-ratified 1861 proposed constitutional amendment that would have protected slavery to avert secession.
Coxey's Army	The Gilded Age and the West	1894 march of unemployed workers on Washington led by Jacob Coxey demanding public-works relief.
CSS Alabama	Civil War and Reconstruction	Confederate commerce raider built in Britain that destroyed Union shipping, prompting the postwar "Alabama Claims" arbitration.
Democratic Party	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Political party founded under Andrew Jackson, the nation's oldest continuously operating party.
DeWitt Clinton	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	New York governor who championed and built the Erie Canal.
Douglas MacArthur	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	General who led the Pacific War, commanded Korean War forces, and was dismissed by Truman for insubordination.
Dust Bowl	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1930s drought and dust storms that devastated Great Plains farms, driving mass migration west.
Dwight David Eisenhower	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Full name of the 34th President and WWII Supreme Allied Commander.
Edmond-Charles Genet	American Revolution and the Founding	French minister ("Citizen Genet") who provoked a diplomatic crisis by recruiting Americans for France against Washington's neutrality.
Elihu Root	The Progressive Era and World War I	Secretary of War and State under Roosevelt/Taft who reorganized the Army and won the Nobel Peace Prize.
Embargo Act of 1807	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Jefferson's trade ban aimed at Britain and France that instead devastated American shipping.
Fannie Lou Hamer	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Mississippi sharecropper-turned-activist who co-founded the Freedom Democratic Party and testified at the 1964 DNC.
FCC	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Federal Communications Commission, created 1934 to regulate radio and later television and telephone.
fireside chats	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	FDR's radio addresses reassuring the public during the Depression and World War II.
First Great Awakening	Colonial America	1730s-40s religious revival led by preachers like Jonathan Edwards and George Whitefield.
Fort Laramie	The Gilded Age and the West	Wyoming trading post and treaty site central to US-Plains Indian relations.
Fred Hampton	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Illinois Black Panther leader killed in a 1969 police raid widely viewed as an assassination.
Freedom Summer	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1964 campaign to register Black voters in Mississippi, marked by the murder of three activists.
fur	Colonial America	Trade commodity driving early colonial economies and exploration, especially French and Dutch ventures.
gag rule	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1836-44 House rule automatically tabling antislavery petitions, opposed by John Quincy Adams.
Galveston	States, Territories, and Cities	Texas port devastated by the deadly 1900 hurricane, the worst natural disaster in US history.
George Bancroft	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	19th-century "father of American history," author of a multivolume history of the United States.
George Herbert Walker Bush	Contemporary America	Full name of the 41st President.
George Romney	Contemporary America	Michigan governor and 1968 presidential candidate; father of Mitt Romney.
Gibbons v. Ogden	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1824 Supreme Court case broadly defining federal power over interstate commerce.
Gifford Pinchot	The Progressive Era and World War I	First US Forest Service chief and close ally of Theodore Roosevelt's conservation policy.
Gore	Contemporary America
Governor of Texas	States, Territories, and Cities
Grand Army of the Republic	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union Civil War veterans' fraternal organization, influential in Gilded Age Republican politics and pensions.
Great Society	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Lyndon Johnson's ambitious program of social programs including Medicare, Medicaid, and the War on Poverty.
Grimke	Civil War and Reconstruction	Surname of Sarah and Angelina Grimke, South Carolina sisters who became prominent abolitionist and women's rights advocates.
habeas corpus	Civil War and Reconstruction	Legal right to challenge detention, controversially suspended by Lincoln during the Civil War.
Handsome Lake	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Seneca prophet whose early-1800s religious teachings revitalized Iroquois traditions.
Harrison	The Gilded Age and the West
Hawai'i	States, Territories, and Cities	Annexed in 1898 after the overthrow of Queen Liliuokalani; site of Pearl Harbor; became the 50th state in 1959.
Henry Agard Wallace	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	FDR's Agriculture Secretary and Vice President, later a 1948 Progressive Party presidential candidate.
Henry Cabot Lodge, Sr.	The Progressive Era and World War I	Massachusetts senator who led opposition blocking US entry into the League of Nations.
Henry Clay Frick	The Gilded Age and the West	Carnegie's steel partner whose harsh handling of the Homestead strike made him a target of an assassination attempt.
Henry Clay Sr.	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	"Great Compromiser" senator behind the Missouri Compromise, American System, and Compromise of 1850.
