Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990	Contemporary America	Civil-rights law under George H.W. Bush banning discrimination against people with disabilities.
Anthony Comstock	The Gilded Age and the West	Anti-vice crusader whose namesake laws banned mailing obscene material and birth-control information.
Articles of Confederation	American Revolution and the Founding	Weak first US governing framework (1781-89) lacking taxing power, replaced by the Constitution.
Baker v. Carr	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1962 Supreme Court case establishing federal courts' authority over legislative redistricting ("one person, one vote").
Banastre Tarleton	American Revolution and the Founding	Notorious British cavalry officer ("Bloody Tarleton") defeated at the Battle of Cowpens.
Barbary wars	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Early 1800s conflicts with North African states over piracy and tribute, testing the young US Navy.
Barry Morris Goldwater	Contemporary America	Full name of the Arizona senator and 1964 Republican presidential nominee.
Battle of Antietam	Civil War and Reconstruction	Bloodiest single day of the Civil War (1862) in Maryland; gave Lincoln the opening to issue the Emancipation Proclamation.
Battle of San Jacinto	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1836 battle where Sam Houston's Texans defeated and captured Santa Anna, securing independence.
Battle of Saratoga	American Revolution and the Founding	1777 American victory in New York that convinced France to enter the war as an ally.
Battle of Shiloh	Civil War and Reconstruction	Bloody 1862 battle in Tennessee where Grant's Union army repelled a surprise Confederate attack.
Battle of the Crater	Civil War and Reconstruction	1864 Union attempt to breach Confederate lines at Petersburg by tunnel-mine explosion, ending in disaster.
Battle of the Little Bighorn	The Gilded Age and the West	1876 battle where Custer's cavalry was annihilated by Lakota and Cheyenne forces.
Bernard Baruch	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Financier who chaired the War Industries Board and later advised on economic mobilization.
Black Hawk War	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1832 conflict in Illinois/Wisconsin between US forces and Sauk leader Black Hawk's band.
Booker T. Washington	The Gilded Age and the West	Educator who founded Tuskegee Institute and urged Black economic self-help via his "Atlanta Compromise" address.
Brown v. Board of Education	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1954 Supreme Court case unanimously declaring public school segregation unconstitutional.
Carl Schurz	Civil War and Reconstruction	German-American reformer, Union general, and senator who championed civil service reform.
Charles Evans Hughes	The Progressive Era and World War I	Republican Chief Justice and 1916 presidential nominee who narrowly lost to Wilson.
child labor	The Progressive Era and World War I	Reform target of Progressive-era activists, leading to laws restricting factory work by minors.
Cincinnati, Ohio	States, Territories, and Cities	Ohio River city that grew as a 19th-century meatpacking and manufacturing hub ("Porkopolis").
Civilian Conservation Corps	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	New Deal program employing young men in conservation and infrastructure work.
Clarence Darrow	The Progressive Era and World War I	Defense attorney famed for the Scopes trial and the Leopold and Loeb case.
Clement Vallandigham	Civil War and Reconstruction	Ohio "Copperhead" Democrat arrested and exiled for antiwar dissent during the Civil War.
Contract With America	Contemporary America	1994 Republican legislative platform under Newt Gingrich that helped the GOP win the House.
copper	The Gilded Age and the West	Mining commodity driving boomtowns like Butte, Montana, amid the era's Western mineral rushes.
copper mining	The Gilded Age and the West	Industry centered on Western towns like Butte, Montana, fueling late-19th-century mineral booms.
Daniel Patrick Moynihan	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Sociologist-senator known for his controversial 1965 report on Black family structure and later Senate career.
Davis	Civil War and Reconstruction	Surname of Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederate States of America.
Denis Kearney	The Gilded Age and the West	California labor agitator whose anti-Chinese rhetoric helped drive passage of the Chinese Exclusion Act.
Detroit, Michigan	States, Territories, and Cities	Auto-industry city built by Ford and GM; scene of the 1967 riots.
Ellis Island	The Gilded Age and the West	New York harbor immigration station processing millions of arrivals from the 1890s onward.
eminent domain	Contemporary America	Government power to seize private property for public use, tested in cases like Kelo v. City of New London.
EPA	Contemporary America	Environmental Protection Agency, created 1970 under Nixon to enforce federal environmental law.
Estes Kefauver	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Tennessee senator whose televised organized-crime hearings made him a national figure; 1956 VP nominee.
eugenics	The Progressive Era and World War I	Pseudo-scientific movement advocating selective breeding, leading to forced-sterilization laws upheld in Buck v. Bell.
Fiorello LaGuardia	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Reformist New York City mayor during the Depression, known for cleaning up city government.
Fort Ticonderoga	American Revolution and the Founding	New York fort captured by Ethan Allen's Green Mountain Boys in 1775.
Fourteenth Amendment	Civil War and Reconstruction	Reconstruction-era amendment granting citizenship and equal protection, later the basis for many civil-rights rulings.
Frances Perkins	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	FDR's Secretary of Labor, first woman cabinet member, and architect of Social Security.
Francis Marion	American Revolution and the Founding	"Swamp Fox" guerrilla leader who harried British forces in the South Carolina backcountry.
freedmen	Civil War and Reconstruction	Formerly enslaved people whose new legal freedom and citizenship were contested during Reconstruction.
Freedmen's Bureau	Civil War and Reconstruction	Federal agency aiding formerly enslaved people with education, labor contracts, and relief after the Civil War.
George H. W. Bush	Contemporary America	41st President; led the Gulf War coalition; former CIA director and Reagan's VP.
George W. Bush	Contemporary America	43rd President who launched the War on Terror after 9/11, invading Afghanistan and Iraq.
Haiti	The Gilded Age and the West	Caribbean nation whose 1804 slave-revolt independence influenced US slavery debates; later occupied by US Marines (1915-34).
Harriet Beecher Stowe	Civil War and Reconstruction	Author of Uncle Tom's Cabin, whose depiction of slavery galvanized Northern abolitionist sentiment.
Harvey Milk	Contemporary America	First openly gay elected official in California, assassinated in 1978 as a San Francisco supervisor.
highways	Contemporary America	Interstate system built under Eisenhower's 1956 act, reshaping American commerce and suburbanization.
Hurricane Katrina	Contemporary America	2005 storm that devastated New Orleans and exposed failures in federal disaster response.
ice	The Gilded Age and the West	Commodity harvested and shipped commercially before refrigeration, an important 19th-century industry.
Ida B. Wells	The Gilded Age and the West	Journalist and activist who led anti-lynching crusades and co-founded the NAACP.
Italian-Americans	The Gilded Age and the West	Immigrant group arriving in large numbers after 1880, settling Northeastern cities and facing discrimination like the 1891 New Orleans lynchings.
Jacob Leisler	Colonial America	New York merchant who seized control during a 1689 uprising against royal authority, later executed for treason.
James Madison	American Revolution and the Founding	"Father of the Constitution"; co-author of the Federalist Papers; 4th President who led the nation through the War of 1812.
Jefferson Davis	Civil War and Reconstruction	President of the Confederate States of America throughout the Civil War.
Jehovah's Witnesses	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Religious group whose flag-salute refusals produced key free-exercise Supreme Court cases.
John C. Fremont	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Explorer ("Pathfinder") of the West and the first Republican presidential nominee in 1856.
John Hay	The Gilded Age and the West	Lincoln's secretary turned Secretary of State who authored the Open Door Policy toward China.
John McCain	Contemporary America	Arizona senator and Vietnam POW who was the 2008 Republican presidential nominee.
John Sassamon	Colonial America	Christianized Wampanoag interpreter whose murder helped trigger King Philip's War.
Johnstown Flood	The Gilded Age and the West	1889 Pennsylvania dam-failure disaster that killed over 2,000 people.
Jonathan Edwards	Colonial America	Puritan theologian whose fiery sermons like "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God" drove the First Great Awakening.
Joseph Brant	American Revolution and the Founding	Mohawk leader who fought alongside the British against American forces during the Revolution.
Joseph Smith	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, murdered by a mob in Illinois in 1844.
Junipero Serra	Colonial America	Spanish Franciscan friar who founded a chain of California missions in the 1700s.
Kerner Commission	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Johnson-appointed body that blamed 1960s urban riots on white racism, warning of "two societies, separate and unequal."
Kingdom of Spain	Colonial America	European power that colonized Florida, the Southwest, and California before ceding territory to the US.
Lake Champlain	American Revolution and the Founding	New York/Vermont waterway, site of key Revolutionary War and War of 1812 naval battles.
Lemon v. Kurtzman	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1971 Supreme Court case establishing the "Lemon test" for Establishment Clause church-state cases.
Liberia	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	West African nation founded by the American Colonization Society as a homeland for freed Black Americans.
Ludlow Massacre	The Progressive Era and World War I	1914 killing of striking coal miners' families by Colorado militia during a labor dispute.
Luigi Galleani	The Progressive Era and World War I	Italian anarchist whose followers were blamed for a wave of early-20th-century bombings, including the Wall Street bombing.
Marbury v. Madison	American Revolution and the Founding	1803 Supreme Court case establishing judicial review under Chief Justice John Marshall.
Margaret Sanger	The Progressive Era and World War I	Birth-control activist who founded the organization that became Planned Parenthood.
Martin Luther King, Jr.	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Baptist minister and civil rights leader famed for nonviolent protest and the "I Have a Dream" speech; assassinated 1968.
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1816 Supreme Court case affirming its authority over state court rulings on federal law.
Mary Todd Lincoln	Civil War and Reconstruction	Abraham Lincoln's wife, whose life was marked by the deaths of children and her husband's assassination beside her.
Massachusetts Bay Colony	Colonial America	Puritan colony founded 1630 by John Winthrop, centered on Boston.
meatpacking industry	The Progressive Era and World War I	Chicago-centered industry whose unsanitary conditions, exposed in Sinclair's The Jungle, spurred food-safety regulation.
