Minnesota	States, Territories, and Cities	Upper Midwest state admitted 1858; site of the Dakota War of 1862 and heavy Scandinavian immigrant settlement.
New Orleans	States, Territories, and Cities	French-founded Louisiana port; site of Jackson's 1815 victory; devastated by Hurricane Katrina in 2005.
Quakers	Colonial America	Religious Society of Friends whose pacifism and egalitarianism shaped Pennsylvania under founder William Penn.
Seminoles	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Florida nation that fought three wars against US removal efforts, resisting under leaders like Osceola.
Sojourner Truth	Civil War and Reconstruction	Formerly enslaved abolitionist and women's rights speaker famed for her "Ain't I a Woman?" address.
St. Louis	States, Territories, and Cities	Missouri city on the Mississippi; gateway for westward expansion; hosted the 1904 World's Fair.
William Jennings Bryan	The Gilded Age and the West	"Great Commoner" who gave the "Cross of Gold" speech and ran for president three times on free silver and populism; later prosecuted the Scopes trial.
Abigail Adams	American Revolution and the Founding	Wife of John Adams whose letters urging him to "remember the ladies" reveal Revolutionary-era politics and women's concerns.
Ambrose Burnside	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union general defeated at Fredericksburg; his distinctive facial hair gave rise to the word "sideburns."
American Civil War	Civil War and Reconstruction	1861-1865 conflict between the Union and the seceded Confederate States over slavery and states' rights.
American Indian Movement	Contemporary America	Activist group founded 1968 that occupied Alcatraz and Wounded Knee to protest federal Indian policy.
Benjamin Franklin	American Revolution and the Founding	Polymath diplomat who secured French support for the Revolution and helped draft the Declaration and Constitution.
Black Panther Party	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Militant Black self-defense and community-service organization founded in Oakland in 1966 by Huey Newton and Bobby Seale.
Charles Lindbergh	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Aviator who made the first solo transatlantic flight (1927); later led the isolationist America First Committee.
Charleston	States, Territories, and Cities	South Carolina port city; site of the Fort Sumter attack and a major slave-trading port.
Chinese-Americans	The Gilded Age and the West	Immigrant laborers who built the transcontinental railroad; faced exclusion under the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act.
Daniel Webster	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Massachusetts senator and orator famed for his Senate debates with Hayne and Calhoun defending the Union.
Earl Warren	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Chief Justice whose Court decided Brown v. Board and Miranda; also chaired the commission on JFK's assassination.
Herbert Hoover	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	31st President whose limited response to the onset of the Great Depression cost him reelection to FDR.
Huey Long	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Populist Louisiana governor/senator who championed "Share Our Wealth" before his 1935 assassination.
Martin Van Buren	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	8th President and Jackson's VP; built the Democratic Party machine; presided over the Panic of 1837.
NAACP	The Progressive Era and World War I	Civil rights organization founded 1909 that fought segregation through litigation, including Brown v. Board.
Reconstruction	Civil War and Reconstruction	Post-Civil War period (1865-1877) of rebuilding the South and extending rights to freedpeople, ended by the Compromise of 1877.
Ronald Wilson Reagan	Contemporary America	Full name of the 40th President, whose "Reaganomics" and arms buildup marked the 1980s.
sugar	The Gilded Age and the West	Plantation cash crop grown by enslaved and immigrant labor in Louisiana, Cuba, and Hawaii; central to sugar-trust and tariff politics.
Tammany Hall	The Gilded Age and the West	Corrupt Democratic political machine dominating New York City politics, associated with boss William "Boss" Tweed.
Theodore Roosevelt	The Progressive Era and World War I	26th President; trust-busting Progressive reformer who led the Rough Riders and built the Panama Canal.
Warren Gamaliel Harding	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Full name of the 29th President, whose administration was marked by the Teapot Dome scandal.
William Howard Taft	The Progressive Era and World War I	27th President and later Chief Justice; his split from Theodore Roosevelt's progressivism prompted the 1912 Bull Moose campaign.
William McKinley	The Gilded Age and the West	25th President who led the US through the Spanish-American War and annexation of the Philippines; assassinated in 1901.
Atlanta	States, Territories, and Cities	Georgia city burned by Sherman in 1864; later a hub of the civil rights movement and "New South" commerce.
Benjamin Harrison	The Gilded Age and the West	23rd President (1889-93), grandson of William Henry Harrison; presided over the Sherman Antitrust Act and rapid Western state admissions.
Cheyenne	The Gilded Age and the West	Plains nation involved in the Sand Creek Massacre and the Battle of the Little Bighorn.
Cleveland	States, Territories, and Cities	Ohio industrial city on Lake Erie; birthplace of Standard Oil.
Edmund Andros	Colonial America	Royal governor of the Dominion of New England, overthrown in Boston during the 1689 Glorious Revolution.
Irish-Americans	The Gilded Age and the West	Immigrant group who fled the Famine to fill Northeastern cities and factories; came to dominate urban machines like Tammany Hall.
John Jay	American Revolution and the Founding	First Chief Justice; co-author of the Federalist Papers; negotiated the 1794 Jay Treaty with Britain.
Mexican-American War	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1846-48 conflict sparked by the Texas annexation and a border dispute; ended with the Mexican Cession under the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
Mormons	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Church founded by Joseph Smith; migrated under Brigham Young to Utah after persecution and Smith's murder at Nauvoo.
New Mexico	States, Territories, and Cities	Territory gained in the Mexican Cession with deep Pueblo and Spanish colonial heritage; became a state in 1912.
Panic of 1837	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Financial crisis following Jackson's Bank War and Specie Circular; caused a severe, prolonged depression under Van Buren.
Richard Milhous Nixon	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Full name of the 37th President, who resigned in 1974 over Watergate.
Richmond, Virginia	Civil War and Reconstruction	Capital of the Confederacy, captured by Union forces in April 1865.
Russia	States, Territories, and Cities	Sold Alaska to the US in 1867; later Cold War superpower rival as the Soviet Union.
Santa Fe	States, Territories, and Cities	New Mexico city founded by Spanish colonists; terminus of the Santa Fe Trail trade route.
silver	The Gilded Age and the West	Mining-boom metal (Comstock Lode) fueling Western settlement; center of the 1890s "free silver" monetary debate.
Stonewall riots	Contemporary America	1969 uprising at a Greenwich Village gay bar that launched the modern LGBTQ rights movement.
Vermont	States, Territories, and Cities	Independent republic before joining the Union in 1791 as the 14th state.
Whig Party	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Party opposing Jackson's executive power, led by Henry Clay and Daniel Webster; collapsed over slavery in the 1850s.
Whiskey Rebellion	American Revolution and the Founding	1794 Pennsylvania farmers' uprising against a federal excise tax, suppressed by Washington leading troops personally.
William Seward	Civil War and Reconstruction	Lincoln's Secretary of State who arranged the Alaska Purchase ("Seward's Folly"); survived an assassination attempt the night Lincoln was shot.
American Colonization Society	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Organization founded 1816 to resettle free Black Americans in Africa, establishing Liberia.
Andrew Johnson	Civil War and Reconstruction	17th President who succeeded Lincoln; clashed with Radical Republicans over Reconstruction and was impeached, acquitted by one vote.
Anne Hutchinson	Colonial America	Puritan dissenter banished from Massachusetts Bay for antinomian views; helped found Rhode Island settlements.
Bacon's Rebellion	Colonial America	1676 Virginia uprising led by Nathaniel Bacon against Governor Berkeley over frontier defense policy.
Baltimore, Maryland	States, Territories, and Cities	Maryland port city bombarded by the British in 1814, inspiring "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Battle of Cowpens	American Revolution and the Founding	1781 American victory in South Carolina under Daniel Morgan that helped turn the Revolutionary War's Southern campaign.
Boston, Massachusetts	States, Territories, and Cities	Massachusetts capital and site of the Tea Party and the Massacre.
China	The Progressive Era and World War I	Target of the US Open Door Policy (1899); later a WWII ally and, under Nixon, a Cold War diplomatic opening.
Comanche	The Gilded Age and the West	Dominant Southern Plains horse nation that resisted white settlement in Texas until surrendering at Fort Sill in 1875.
Dwight D. Eisenhower	The Cold War and Civil Rights	34th President; WWII Supreme Allied Commander who sent troops to enforce Little Rock integration and warned of the "military-industrial complex."
Equal Rights Amendment	Contemporary America	Proposed constitutional amendment guaranteeing sex equality; passed Congress in 1972 but fell short of ratification amid Phyllis Schlafly's opposition.
Erie Canal	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1825 waterway linking the Hudson River to Lake Erie, spurring New York's commercial rise and westward migration.
Ethan Allen	American Revolution and the Founding	Green Mountain Boys leader who captured Fort Ticonderoga from the British in 1775.
FBI	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Federal law-enforcement agency long led by J. Edgar Hoover; ran COINTELPRO surveillance against civil rights and radical groups.
First Amendment	American Revolution and the Founding	Constitutional guarantee of speech, press, religion, and assembly, ratified as part of the 1791 Bill of Rights.
Gerald Ford	Contemporary America	38th President, never elected VP or President; pardoned Nixon and survived two assassination attempts.
James Buchanan	Civil War and Reconstruction	15th President whose inaction before secession is often blamed for worsening the sectional crisis.
James G. Blaine	The Gilded Age and the West	"Continental Liar from the State of Maine"; Republican Secretary of State and 1884 presidential nominee defeated by Cleveland.
James Oglethorpe	Colonial America	Founder and first governor of the Georgia colony (1732), envisioned as a refuge for debtors.
John	Colonial America
John Winthrop	Colonial America	First governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony; delivered the "City upon a Hill" sermon envisioning a model Puritan society.
King Philip's War	Colonial America	1675-76 devastating conflict between New England colonists and a Wampanoag-led Native alliance under Metacomet ("King Philip").
Lochner v. New York	The Gilded Age and the West	1905 Supreme Court case striking down a maximum-hours law, epitomizing the era's "liberty of contract" jurisprudence.
Memphis	States, Territories, and Cities	Tennessee city on the Mississippi; site of Martin Luther King Jr.'s 1968 assassination.
Montana	States, Territories, and Cities	Northern Plains state; site of the Battle of the Little Bighorn; admitted 1889.
Nebraska	States, Territories, and Cities	Plains territory organized by the 1854 Kansas-Nebraska Act; admitted as a state in 1867.
Patrick Henry	American Revolution and the Founding	Virginia orator famed for "Give me liberty, or give me death!"; later an Anti-Federalist opponent of the Constitution.
Peter Stuyvesant	Colonial America	Last Dutch director-general of New Netherland, who surrendered New Amsterdam to the English in 1664.
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania	States, Territories, and Cities	Pennsylvania city that hosted the Continental Congresses and the Constitutional Convention.
