George Clinton	American Revolution and the Founding	New York's first governor and later VP under Jefferson and Madison; opposed ratification of the Constitution.
George Crook	The Gilded Age and the West	Army general who campaigned against the Apache and Sioux during the Indian Wars.
George Custer	The Gilded Age and the West	Cavalry officer annihilated with his command at the Battle of the Little Bighorn (1876).
George F. Kennan	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Diplomat whose "Long Telegram" and "X Article" articulated the strategy of Cold War containment.
George Henry Thomas	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union general nicknamed "the Rock of Chickamauga" for his stand covering a Union retreat.
George Kennan	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Diplomat who articulated the Cold War strategy of containment.
George McGovern	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Antiwar South Dakota senator and 1972 Democratic presidential nominee, crushed by Nixon.
George Rogers Clark	American Revolution and the Founding	Frontier militia leader who captured British forts in the Illinois Country during the Revolutionary War.
George Walker Bush	Contemporary America	Full name of the 43rd President.
George Wallace	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Segregationist Alabama governor who blocked a schoolhouse door and ran for president multiple times, including in 1968 as an independent.
George Washington's farewell address	American Revolution and the Founding	1796 statement warning against permanent foreign alliances and political factions as Washington left office.
Georgetown University	States, Territories, and Cities	Washington, D.C. Jesuit university founded 1789, the nation's oldest Catholic institution of higher learning.
gerrymandering	Contemporary America	Practice of drawing electoral districts to favor a party, named for Governor Elbridge Gerry and contested in redistricting cases.
Ghost Dance movement	The Gilded Age and the West	Late-19th-century Native religious revival prophesying restoration, ended violently at Wounded Knee.
Gideon v. Wainwright	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1963 Supreme Court case guaranteeing criminal defendants the right to an attorney.
Gideon Welles	Civil War and Reconstruction	Lincoln's Secretary of the Navy who built the Union blockade fleet.
Glass-Steagall Act	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1933 New Deal law separating commercial and investment banking, creating the FDIC.
Godey's Lady's Book	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Influential 19th-century women's magazine shaping fashion and domestic ideals.
gold rushes	The Gilded Age and the West	Mineral strikes, from California to the Klondike, that drove waves of Western migration and boomtowns.
gold standard	The Gilded Age and the West	Monetary system pegging currency to gold, defended by conservatives against the free-silver movement.
Goliad Massacre	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1836 execution of surrendered Texan rebels by Santa Anna's forces during the Texas Revolution.
Gore Vidal	Contemporary America	Novelist and essayist known for historical fiction on American politics and public feuds with figures like William F. Buckley.
Gouverneur Morris	American Revolution and the Founding	Constitutional Convention delegate credited with drafting the Constitution's final wording, including its Preamble.
governor of California	States, Territories, and Cities
Great Chicago Fire	States, Territories, and Cities	1871 blaze that destroyed much of Chicago, prompting the city's rapid modern rebuilding.
Green	Colonial America
Greensboro, North Carolina	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Site of the 1960 lunch-counter sit-ins that sparked a wave of student-led civil rights protest.
Guam	The Gilded Age and the West	Pacific island ceded by Spain after the 1898 Spanish-American War, becoming a US territory.
H. L. Mencken	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Sardonic journalist and critic who covered the Scopes trial and skewered American culture.
Hammer v. Dagenhart	The Progressive Era and World War I	1918 Supreme Court case striking down a federal child-labor law as exceeding commerce power.
Harlem	The Progressive Era and World War I	Manhattan neighborhood whose 1920s cultural flowering of Black literature, art, and music became the Harlem Renaissance.
Harold Stassen	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	"Boy Wonder" Minnesota governor who ran perennially, and unsuccessfully, for the Republican presidential nomination.
Harpers Ferry	Civil War and Reconstruction	Virginia site of John Brown's 1859 armory raid intended to spark a slave uprising.
Harry Hopkins	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	FDR's close adviser who administered New Deal relief programs like the WPA.
Harry S Truman	The Cold War and Civil Rights	33rd President who ordered the atomic bombings of Japan and launched the Marshall Plan and Korean War.
Hattie Caraway	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	First woman elected to the US Senate in her own right, representing Arkansas from 1932.
Haymarket Square riot	The Gilded Age and the West	1886 Chicago labor rally bombing that led to the execution of anarchist organizers and a backlash against labor radicalism.
Helen Hunt Jackson	The Gilded Age and the West	Author of A Century of Dishonor and Ramona, novels exposing the mistreatment of Native Americans.
Henry	American Revolution and the Founding
Henry Knox	American Revolution and the Founding	Continental Army artillery commander who hauled captured cannon from Ticonderoga to besiege Boston; first Secretary of War.
Henry Morgenthau, Jr.	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	FDR's Treasury Secretary who financed the New Deal and World War II.
Hiram Rhodes Revels	Civil War and Reconstruction	First Black member of the US Senate, elected from Mississippi during Reconstruction.
Hmong	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Southeast Asian ethnic group allied with the US during the Vietnam War, many later resettled as refugees.
Hollywood	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Los Angeles district that became the center of the American film industry's studio-era golden age.
homosexuality	Contemporary America	Sexual orientation whose legal and social status shifted from criminalization through Stonewall-era activism to later civil-rights gains.
Howard Zinn	Contemporary America	Historian whose A People's History of the United States retold history from marginalized perspectives.
HUAC	The Cold War and Civil Rights	House Un-American Activities Committee, which investigated alleged communist influence and blacklisted Hollywood figures.
Hudson's Bay Company	Colonial America	British fur-trading enterprise dominating commerce in the Pacific Northwest and Canada.
Huntsville, Alabama	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Alabama city that became a center of US rocket development under former German scientists after WWII.
Indian Removal	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Jacksonian-era policy forcibly relocating Southeastern nations to Indian Territory, exemplified by the Trail of Tears.
Iran-Contra scandal	Contemporary America	Reagan-era scandal in which arms sales to Iran illegally funded Nicaraguan Contra rebels.
Iraq War	Contemporary America	2003-2011 US-led invasion and occupation of Iraq under George W. Bush, justified by claims of weapons of mass destruction.
Ireland	The Gilded Age and the West	Source of a major wave of 19th-century immigration, especially following the Great Famine.
Iroquois	Colonial America	Six Nations confederacy of upstate New York, largely allied with the British during the Revolution.
J. Edgar Hoover	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Longtime FBI director who ran COINTELPRO against civil rights and radical groups.
Jamaica	Colonial America	British Caribbean sugar colony whose plantation slave society paralleled patterns in the American South.
James Garfield	The Gilded Age and the West	20th President, assassinated by disappointed office-seeker Charles Guiteau in 1881.
James Stockdale	Contemporary America	Vietnam POW and Medal of Honor recipient who was Ross Perot's 1992 vice-presidential running mate.
Jamestown, Virginia	Colonial America	First permanent English colony (1607), founded by the Virginia Company.
Japan	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	WWII Axis power whose attack on Pearl Harbor drew the US into war; later a Cold War ally.
Jesse James	Civil War and Reconstruction	Former Confederate guerrilla who became a notorious outlaw and bank/train robber after the war.
Jews	The Gilded Age and the West	Immigrant religious group arriving in large numbers from Eastern Europe, settling urban centers and facing discrimination.
Jim Crow laws	The Gilded Age and the West	State and local statutes enforcing racial segregation across the South from the 1880s through the 1960s.
Jim Jones	Contemporary America	Cult leader whose Peoples Temple followers died in a mass murder-suicide at Jonestown in 1978.
Joe Louis	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Heavyweight boxing champion whose defeat of German Max Schmeling became a symbol of anti-Nazi pride.
John Bell	Civil War and Reconstruction	Constitutional Union Party's 1860 presidential candidate, seeking to avoid the sectional crisis over slavery.
John Burgoyne	American Revolution and the Founding	British general whose army surrendered at Saratoga in 1777, a turning point of the war.
John C. Calhoun	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	South Carolina statesman and VP who championed states' rights, nullification, and slavery's defense.
John Caldwell Calhoun	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Full name of the South Carolina statesman who championed nullification and slavery's defense.
John F. Kennedy	The Cold War and Civil Rights	35th President; handled the Cuban Missile Crisis; assassinated in Dallas in 1963.
John Hope Franklin	Contemporary America	Historian known for From Slavery to Freedom, a foundational survey of African American history.
John Locke	American Revolution and the Founding	English philosopher whose social-contract theory of natural rights profoundly influenced Jefferson's Declaration of Independence.
John Marshall Harlan II	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Mid-20th-century Supreme Court justice known for careful, conservative jurisprudence; grandson of an earlier "Great Dissenter" justice.
John Muir	The Gilded Age and the West	Naturalist and conservationist who co-founded the Sierra Club and championed national parks like Yosemite.
John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore	American Revolution and the Founding	Last royal governor of Virginia who issued a 1775 proclamation offering freedom to enslaved people who joined the British.
John Rolfe	Colonial America	Jamestown colonist who introduced profitable tobacco cultivation and married Pocahontas.
John Rutledge	American Revolution and the Founding	South Carolina statesman and Constitutional Convention delegate whose Supreme Court Chief Justice nomination was rejected.
John Wesley Powell	The Gilded Age and the West	Explorer who led the first expedition through the Grand Canyon and later directed the US Geological Survey.
Johnson	The Cold War and Civil Rights
Joseph Raymond McCarthy	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Full name of the Wisconsin senator who led sensationalized anti-communist investigations in the 1950s.
