Pure Food and Drug Act	The Progressive Era and World War I	1906 law regulating food and drug labeling, passed after Upton Sinclair's expose of the meatpacking industry.
Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906	The Progressive Era and World War I	Law regulating food and drug labeling and safety, spurred by The Jungle's meatpacking revelations.
Quebec	Colonial America	French colonial city and target of failed American invasions in 1775, and a key theater in the earlier French and Indian War.
railroad industry	The Gilded Age and the West	Transcontinental and trunk-line network whose construction and monopolistic rates drove industrialization and Populist backlash.
Republic of Texas	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Independent nation (1836-1845) formed after the Texas Revolution, before US annexation.
rice	Colonial America	Cash crop whose cultivation with enslaved labor built the wealth of colonial South Carolina and Georgia.
Robert Alphonso Taft	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	"Mr. Republican," conservative Ohio senator and son of President Taft, co-author of the Taft-Hartley Act.
Robert Bork	Contemporary America	Nixon-era solicitor general who fired the Watergate special prosecutor; his later Supreme Court nomination was rejected by the Senate.
Robert F. Kennedy	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Attorney General and senator, brother of JFK, assassinated during his 1968 presidential campaign.
Robert Francis Kennedy	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Full name of Robert F. Kennedy, assassinated during his 1968 presidential campaign.
Roger Taney	Civil War and Reconstruction	Chief Justice who wrote the 1857 Dred Scott decision denying Black Americans citizenship.
Rosa Parks	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Civil rights activist whose refusal to give up her bus seat sparked the 1955-56 Montgomery Bus Boycott.
Rough Riders	The Gilded Age and the West	Volunteer cavalry regiment led by Theodore Roosevelt that fought in the Spanish-American War.
Rudy Giuliani	Contemporary America	New York City mayor known for 1990s crime crackdowns and his response to the September 11 attacks.
Salmon P. Chase	Civil War and Reconstruction	Lincoln's Treasury Secretary and later Chief Justice, who presided over Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial.
Samuel Adams	American Revolution and the Founding	Massachusetts agitator who organized the Sons of Liberty and helped plan the Boston Tea Party.
Samuel Jones Tilden	The Gilded Age and the West	Democratic presidential candidate who won the popular vote in 1876 but lost the disputed election to Hayes.
San Francisco, California	States, Territories, and Cities	California port built by the 1849 Gold Rush; devastated by the 1906 earthquake.
scalawags	Civil War and Reconstruction	Derogatory term for white Southerners who supported Reconstruction-era Republican governments.
Schenck v. United States	The Progressive Era and World War I	1919 Supreme Court case upholding WWI-era speech restrictions under the "clear and present danger" test.
Secretary of Defense	Contemporary America	Cabinet post overseeing the military, created in 1947 by the National Security Act.
Secretary of War	American Revolution and the Founding	Original cabinet post overseeing the Army before being replaced by the Secretary of Defense in 1947.
sewing machines	The Gilded Age and the West	Mass-manufactured household technology, pioneered by Isaac Singer, that transformed clothing production.
Sierra Leone	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	West African British colony that, alongside Liberia, became a resettlement destination for freed Black people.
Simon Cameron	Civil War and Reconstruction	Lincoln's first Secretary of War, removed amid corruption allegations over war contracts.
Sons of Liberty	American Revolution and the Founding	Colonial resistance organization that protested British taxes through actions like the Boston Tea Party.
South Dakota	States, Territories, and Cities	Northern Plains state admitted 1889 alongside North Dakota; site of the Black Hills gold rush and Wounded Knee.
Spanish Florida	Colonial America	Spanish colonial territory centered on St. Augustine, ceded to the US in 1819.
Stamp Act	American Revolution and the Founding	1765 British tax on printed materials that sparked colonial protest under "no taxation without representation."
Standard Oil Company	The Gilded Age and the West	Rockefeller's oil monopoly, broken up by the Supreme Court in 1911 under antitrust law.
Stephen Douglas	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	"Little Giant" senator who championed popular sovereignty and debated Lincoln in 1858.
Taiwan	Contemporary America	Island nation whose status became a Cold War flashpoint after Nixon's opening to mainland China.
tea parties	American Revolution and the Founding	Colonial protests, most famously Boston's in 1773, destroying taxed tea to protest British policy.
textile industry	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Manufacturing sector pioneered by Samuel Slater and centered on New England mill towns like Lowell.
The Crisis	The Progressive Era and World War I	NAACP magazine founded and edited by W.E.B. Du Bois to advocate for Black civil rights.
Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt	The Progressive Era and World War I	26th President; trust-busting Progressive reformer who led the Rough Riders and built the Panama Canal.
Thomas Nast	The Gilded Age and the West	Political cartoonist whose drawings exposed Boss Tweed and popularized the modern images of Uncle Sam and Santa Claus.
Treaty of New Echota	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1835 treaty, signed by a minority Cherokee faction, that ceded tribal land and led to the Trail of Tears.
Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire	The Progressive Era and World War I	1911 New York factory fire killing 146 workers, spurring major workplace safety reforms.
Tulsa	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Oklahoma city, site of the 1921 race massacre destroying the prosperous Black "Greenwood" district.
Tulsa, Oklahoma	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Site of the 1921 race massacre that destroyed the prosperous Black "Greenwood" district.
Tuskegee University	The Gilded Age and the West	Historically Black college founded by Booker T. Washington in Alabama in 1881.
United States Postal Service	States, Territories, and Cities	Federal mail agency tracing its roots to Benjamin Franklin, the first Postmaster General.
Valley Forge	American Revolution and the Founding	Pennsylvania winter encampment (1777-78) where Washington's army endured hardship and drilled under von Steuben.
Vicksburg	Civil War and Reconstruction	Mississippi city whose 1863 siege and surrender gave the Union control of the Mississippi River.
Volstead Act	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1919 law enforcing Prohibition under the Eighteenth Amendment.
Wabanaki Confederacy	Colonial America	Alliance of Northeastern Algonquian nations who resisted English expansion in Maine and the Maritimes.
Walker	The Gilded Age and the West
Watts riots	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1965 Los Angeles uprising sparked by a traffic-stop incident, reflecting urban Black frustration with poverty and police.
whaling	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Maritime industry centered on New England ports like New Bedford and Nantucket, hunting whales for oil.
William Berkeley	Colonial America	Longtime royal governor of Virginia whose harsh rule provoked Bacon's Rebellion in 1676.
William Henry Harrison	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	9th President and War of 1812 general who died just a month into office, the shortest presidential term.
William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton	Contemporary America	Full name of the 42nd President.
William Lloyd Garrison	Civil War and Reconstruction	Radical abolitionist publisher of The Liberator who demanded immediate emancipation.
William Tecumseh Sherman	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union general famed for his destructive "March to the Sea" through Georgia in 1864.
William Westmoreland	The Cold War and Civil Rights	US general who commanded forces during the escalation of the Vietnam War.
William Wilberforce	Civil War and Reconstruction	British parliamentarian and abolitionist whose campaign against the slave trade influenced American antislavery movements.
Wilmington, North Carolina	The Gilded Age and the West	Site of the 1898 coup and massacre overthrowing a biracial city government, entrenching Jim Crow rule.
Women's Christian Temperance Union	The Gilded Age and the West	Women's reform organization founded 1874 advocating alcohol prohibition and other moral reforms.
Yamasee War	Colonial America	1715-17 conflict between Southeastern Native nations and English colonists in Carolina, nearly destroying the colony.
Zouaves	Civil War and Reconstruction	Civil War militia units, both Union and Confederate, wearing flamboyant French-inspired North African uniforms.
"Acres of Diamonds"	The Gilded Age and the West	Popular motivational lecture by Russell Conwell preaching that opportunity and wealth lay close to home.
"The Ballot or the Bullet"	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1964 Malcolm X speech urging Black political action, warning of violence if rights were denied.
1850	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Year of the Compromise of 1850, addressing slavery's status in territory won from Mexico.
1860s	Civil War and Reconstruction	Decade encompassing secession, the Civil War, and the start of Reconstruction.
1870s	Civil War and Reconstruction	Decade of Reconstruction's final years, ending with the Compromise of 1877 and withdrawal of federal troops.
1906 San Francisco Earthquake	States, Territories, and Cities	Massive quake and fire that destroyed much of San Francisco, killing thousands.
1919	The Progressive Era and World War I	Year of the Paris Peace Conference, the first Red Scare, and major race riots and strikes at home.
1924	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Year of a restrictive immigration quota law and Coolidge's election in his own right.
1950s	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Decade of Cold War containment, the Korean War, McCarthyism, and the early civil rights movement.
1965	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Year of the Voting Rights Act, the Watts riots, and major Vietnam War escalation.
1968 Democratic National Convention	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Chicago convention marked by violent clashes between police and antiwar protesters.
1990s	Contemporary America	Decade of Clinton's presidency, the end of the Cold War's aftermath, and a tech-driven economic boom.
1994	Contemporary America	Year of NAFTA's implementation and the Republican "Contract With America" midterm sweep.
A People's History of the United States	Contemporary America	Howard Zinn's influential 1980 book retelling American history from marginalized perspectives.
Abe Fortas	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Supreme Court justice who resigned in 1969 amid a financial scandal after a failed Chief Justice nomination.
abortion	Contemporary America	Reproductive-rights issue central to Roe v. Wade (1973) and its 2022 overturning.
Abscam	Contemporary America	Late-1970s FBI sting operation that caught several members of Congress accepting bribes.
Acadia	Colonial America	French colonial region in Canada's Maritimes whose population was expelled by the British in 1755, some settling in Louisiana as "Cajuns."
Adams family	American Revolution and the Founding	Massachusetts political dynasty including presidents John and John Quincy Adams and diarist Abigail Adams.
