NYPD	States, Territories, and Cities	New York Police Department, whose scale and controversies have made it central to policing and civil-rights debates.
Oak Ridge	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Tennessee town built secretly to enrich uranium for the Manhattan Project's atomic bomb.
obscenity	Contemporary America	Legal category contested in cases balancing First Amendment protections against community morality standards.
October surprise	Contemporary America	Term for late-campaign events, notably 1980 claims that Reagan's camp delayed the Iran hostage release to hurt Carter.
Oklahoma City Bombing	Contemporary America	1995 domestic terrorist attack by Timothy McVeigh on a federal building, killing 168 people.
Oneida	Colonial America	One of the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy, notable for aiding the American cause during the Revolution.
Oneida Community	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Utopian religious commune in New York practicing "complex marriage," founded by John Humphrey Noyes.
Oregon Trail	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Overland wagon route from Missouri to the Pacific Northwest used by tens of thousands of settlers.
Palmer Raids	The Progressive Era and World War I	Post-WWI roundups of suspected radicals and immigrants directed by Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer during the Red Scare.
Panic of 1893	The Gilded Age and the West	Severe economic depression triggered by railroad overexpansion and bank failures, fueling Populist politics.
Panic of 1907	The Gilded Age and the West	Financial crisis averted partly by J.P. Morgan's personal intervention, spurring creation of the Federal Reserve.
Passenger Pigeon	The Gilded Age and the West	Once-abundant bird driven to extinction by overhunting and habitat loss by the early 20th century.
Pat Buchanan	Contemporary America	Conservative commentator and Nixon speechwriter who ran insurgent Republican and Reform Party presidential campaigns.
patents	The Gilded Age and the West	Intellectual-property grants that protected inventions like Edison's and Bell's, fueling the era's industrial innovation.
Pentagon Papers	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Leaked secret Defense Department history of the Vietnam War, published by the Times in 1971 despite Nixon's objections.
Pequot War	Colonial America	1636-38 conflict in which New England colonists nearly destroyed the Pequot nation.
Peter Minuit	Colonial America	Dutch colonial director who purchased Manhattan Island from Native inhabitants in 1626.
Philip Sheridan	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union cavalry general known for his Shenandoah Valley campaign and later Indian Wars command.
Plymouth Bay Colony	Colonial America	Separatist Pilgrim settlement founded 1620 after arriving on the Mayflower; site of the first Thanksgiving.
Polish-Americans	The Gilded Age and the West	Immigrant group arriving in large numbers from the 1880s, settling industrial cities like Chicago and Detroit.
Pontiac's Rebellion	Colonial America	1763 Native uprising against British rule in the Great Lakes led by the Ottawa leader Pontiac.
Pontiac's War	Colonial America	Alternate name for the 1763 Native uprising against British rule led by Pontiac.
Portland, Maine	States, Territories, and Cities	Maine's largest city and historic seaport.
Potomac River	States, Territories, and Cities	River forming much of the Virginia-Maryland border and flowing past Washington, D.C.
Profiles in Courage	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Pulitzer-winning 1956 book on senatorial political courage, credited to John F. Kennedy.
Prohibition of Alcohol	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Nationwide ban on alcohol (1920-1933) under the 18th Amendment and Volstead Act, fueling organized crime.
prostitution	The Gilded Age and the West	Vice targeted by Progressive-era reformers concerned with urban "white slavery" and moral reform.
Pueblo people	Colonial America	Southwestern nations who launched a successful 1680 revolt expelling Spanish colonizers from New Mexico for over a decade.
Pullman Strike	The Gilded Age and the West	1894 nationwide rail strike led by Eugene Debs, crushed by federal troops under Cleveland.
Quebec City	Colonial America	Fortified French colonial capital targeted by a failed American invasion in 1775.
Queen Anne's War	Colonial America	1702-13 North American theater of the War of the Spanish Succession between English and French colonists.
Rand Paul	Contemporary America	Libertarian-leaning Kentucky senator and son of Ron Paul, known for filibusters on civil liberties issues.
Randolph	American Revolution and the Founding
rape	Civil War and Reconstruction
Reconstruction Era	Civil War and Reconstruction	Post-Civil War period (1865-1877) of rebuilding the South and extending rights to freedpeople.
Reconstruction Finance Corporation	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Hoover-era federal agency providing emergency loans to banks and businesses during the Depression.
redlining	Contemporary America	Discriminatory practice of denying services like mortgages to residents of minority neighborhoods.
Regulators	Colonial America	1760s-70s North Carolina backcountry vigilante movement protesting corrupt colonial officials.
Republic of Haiti	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Nation founded by the 1804 slave revolt whose independence influenced US slavery debates.
Republic of the Philippines	The Gilded Age and the West	Pacific archipelago ceded by Spain in 1898; scene of a bloody US insurrection before independence in 1946.
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations	Colonial America	Official colonial name of Rhode Island, founded by Roger Williams for religious dissenters.
Rio de Janeiro	States, Territories, and Cities
Rio Grande	States, Territories, and Cities	River forming the US-Mexico border, a disputed boundary that helped trigger the Mexican-American War.
Roanoke Island	Colonial America	Site of the failed 1580s "Lost Colony" English settlement in present-day North Carolina.
Robert Todd Lincoln	Civil War and Reconstruction	Abraham Lincoln's eldest son, later Secretary of War and a successful railroad executive.
Rockefeller	The Gilded Age and the West	Surname of John D. Rockefeller, founder of the Standard Oil monopoly.
Roman Catholic Church	Colonial America	Religious institution whose adherents, especially Irish and Italian immigrants, faced discrimination in a largely Protestant nation.
Royal Navy	American Revolution and the Founding	British naval force whose impressment of American sailors and blockades provoked conflict in the Revolution and War of 1812.
Rush-Bagot Treaty	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1817 agreement demilitarizing the Great Lakes between the US and Britain after the War of 1812.
Russian America	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Russian colonial territory in present-day Alaska, sold to the US in 1867.
Rutherford B. Hayes	The Gilded Age and the West	19th President whose disputed 1876 election was resolved by the Compromise of 1877, ending Reconstruction.
Rutherford Birchard Hayes	The Gilded Age and the West	Full name of the 19th President.
Salmon Portland Chase	Civil War and Reconstruction	Full name of Lincoln's Treasury Secretary and later Chief Justice.
Samuel de Champlain	Colonial America	French explorer and "Father of New France" who founded Quebec City in 1608.
Samuel Houston	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Commander who won Texas independence at San Jacinto; first president of the Republic of Texas.
Sandra Day O'Connor	Contemporary America	First woman Supreme Court justice, appointed by Reagan in 1981.
Saturday Night Massacre	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1973 Watergate-era night when Nixon fired the special prosecutor after two officials resigned rather than comply.
Scotland	Colonial America
Secretary of Agriculture	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Cabinet post overseeing farm policy, notably held by Henry Wallace during the New Deal.
Secretary of State	American Revolution and the Founding	Cabinet post first held by Thomas Jefferson, overseeing foreign affairs.
Sequoyah	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Cherokee silversmith who created a syllabary enabling his nation's written language.
sewer socialism	The Progressive Era and World War I	Pragmatic municipal socialism focused on public utilities, practiced in cities like Milwaukee.
Shays' Rebellion	American Revolution and the Founding	1786-87 Massachusetts farmers' uprising over debt that exposed the Articles of Confederation's weakness.
Shelby Foote	Contemporary America	Historian and novelist whose narrative trilogy and Ken Burns documentary appearances popularized Civil War history.
Shelley v. Kraemer	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1948 Supreme Court case ruling that courts cannot enforce racially restrictive housing covenants.
Sherman Antitrust Act	The Gilded Age and the West	1890 law banning monopolistic business combinations, the first major federal antitrust legislation.
ships	Colonial America
Siege of Vicksburg	Civil War and Reconstruction	1863 Union siege that gave control of the Mississippi River after the city's surrender.
sinking of the USS Maine	The Gilded Age and the West	1898 explosion of a US battleship in Havana harbor that helped spark the Spanish-American War.
Sioux	The Gilded Age and the West	Plains nation (Lakota/Dakota/Nakota) central to conflicts including the Little Bighorn and Wounded Knee.
Sirhan Sirhan	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Assassin of Robert F. Kennedy during his 1968 presidential campaign.
slave ships	Colonial America	Vessels transporting enslaved Africans across the Atlantic to American colonies under brutal conditions.
Slavery	Civil War and Reconstruction	Institution of enslaved labor whose expansion and restriction drove sectional conflict culminating in the Civil War.
slaves	Civil War and Reconstruction	Enslaved people whose labor and status were central to the antebellum South's economy and the war that ended slavery.
Smithsonian Institution	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	National museum and research complex founded 1846 from a British bequest by James Smithson.
snakes	Colonial America
Socialist Party of America	The Progressive Era and World War I	Political party led by Eugene Debs advocating labor rights and public ownership in the early 20th century.
South Korea	The Cold War and Civil Rights	US ally defended in the 1950-53 Korean War against Soviet/Chinese-backed North Korea.
Southern Manifesto	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1956 congressional declaration by Southern lawmakers opposing Brown v. Board's school desegregation ruling.
speakeasies	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Illegal bars operating during Prohibition, often tied to organized crime bootlegging.
