Joseph Stilwell	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	US general ("Vinegar Joe") who commanded American forces in the China-Burma-India theater of WWII.
Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union colonel who defended Little Round Top at Gettysburg, earning the Medal of Honor.
judicial review	American Revolution and the Founding	Power of courts to strike down unconstitutional laws, established in Marbury v. Madison (1803).
Julius and Ethel Rosenberg	The Cold War and Civil Rights	American couple executed in 1953 for conspiring to pass atomic secrets to the Soviet Union.
Julius Robert Oppenheimer	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Full name of the physicist who led the Manhattan Project's development of the atomic bomb.
Kansas City	States, Territories, and Cities	Missouri city known for jazz and cattle/rail trade, straddling the Kansas border.
Kansas City, Missouri	States, Territories, and Cities	Missouri city known for jazz and cattle/rail trade, straddling the Kansas border.
Kelo v. City of New London	Contemporary America	2005 Supreme Court case controversially upholding eminent domain seizure of homes for private economic development.
Kennedy family	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Massachusetts political dynasty including President John F. Kennedy and senators Robert and Ted Kennedy.
Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions	American Revolution and the Founding	1798 statements by Jefferson and Madison asserting states could nullify unconstitutional federal laws, targeting the Alien and Sedition Acts.
Kitchen Debate	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1959 impromptu exchange between Nixon and Khrushchev at a Moscow exhibition, symbolizing Cold War rivalry.
KKK	Civil War and Reconstruction	Abbreviation for the Ku Klux Klan, the white-supremacist terrorist organization founded after the Civil War.
Klondike Gold Rush	The Gilded Age and the West	1896-99 stampede of prospectors to the Canadian Yukon, launching Seattle as a supply hub.
Knights of the Golden Circle	Civil War and Reconstruction	Secret pro-Confederate society active in the North during the Civil War, associated with Copperhead sympathizers.
Know-Nothing Party	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1850s nativist political party opposing Catholic and immigrant influence in American politics.
Korean-Americans	Contemporary America	Immigrant community that grew substantially after 1965 immigration reform, notably in cities like Los Angeles.
Korematsu v. United States	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1944 Supreme Court case upholding the constitutionality of Japanese-American internment.
La Amistad	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Slave ship whose captives' 1839 revolt led to a Supreme Court case, argued by John Quincy Adams, freeing them.
land surveying	American Revolution and the Founding	Trade practiced by young George Washington, foundational to establishing colonial property boundaries.
Langdon Cheves	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	South Carolina "War Hawk" congressman and later president of the Second Bank of the United States.
LAPD	Contemporary America	Los Angeles Police Department, central to controversies from the Rodney King beating to the 1992 riots.
Lavender Scare	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1950s campaign purging gay and lesbian federal employees amid Cold War fears of blackmail and subversion.
Leisler's rebellion	Colonial America	1689 New York uprising led by Jacob Leisler amid the Glorious Revolution's colonial repercussions.
Leo Max Frank	The Progressive Era and World War I	Jewish factory manager wrongly convicted of murder in Georgia and lynched in 1915, fueling antisemitism and the Klan's revival.
leprosy	The Gilded Age and the West	Disease whose sufferers, especially in Hawaii, were forcibly isolated at colonies like Molokai.
Levittowns	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Mass-produced postwar suburban housing developments symbolizing 1950s American suburbanization.
Little Rock	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Arkansas capital, site of the 1957 Central High School desegregation crisis.
Lockheed Corporation	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Aircraft manufacturer that grew into a major defense contractor through WWII and Cold War production.
Louis Dembitz Brandeis	The Progressive Era and World War I	Full name of the first Jewish Supreme Court justice, known for the "Brandeis brief" and privacy rights.
Loving v. Virginia	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1967 Supreme Court case striking down state bans on interracial marriage.
Lowell	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Massachusetts mill town, a pioneering center of factory textile production employing young women.
Lowell, Massachusetts	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Pioneering textile mill town employing young women in early industrial factories.
Ludlow Amendment	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Proposed 1930s constitutional amendment requiring a national referendum to declare war, defeated in Congress.
Lyndon B. Johnson	The Cold War and Civil Rights	36th President who signed the Civil Rights Act and built the Great Society while escalating the Vietnam War.
Madison Square Garden	States, Territories, and Cities	New York City arena hosting major political conventions, sports events, and cultural gatherings.
Mandan people	Colonial America	Upper Missouri River nation who hosted Lewis and Clark for the winter of 1804-05.
Mapp v. Ohio	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1961 Supreme Court case applying the exclusionary rule to state criminal proceedings.
March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1963 mass demonstration where Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech.
Margaret	Contemporary America
Margaret Chase Smith	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Maine senator known for her 1950 "Declaration of Conscience" speech condemning McCarthyism.
Mariel Boatlift	Contemporary America	1980 mass emigration of Cubans to Florida after Castro opened the port of Mariel.
Mark Twain	The Gilded Age and the West	Author (Samuel Clemens) whose satirical writing gave the Gilded Age its name.
Martin Luther King Jr.	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Baptist minister and civil rights leader famed for nonviolent protest and the "I Have a Dream" speech; assassinated 1968.
Mary Boykin Chesnut	Civil War and Reconstruction	Confederate diarist whose detailed wartime journal is a major primary source on Southern elite life.
Mary Rowlandson	Colonial America	Puritan woman whose captivity narrative recounted her abduction during King Philip's War.
Mason-Dixon Line	Colonial America	Surveyed boundary between Pennsylvania and Maryland that later symbolized the divide between free and slave states.
Mattachine	The Cold War and Civil Rights	Early homophile rights organization founded in 1950, a precursor to the modern LGBTQ movement.
Matthew	Colonial America
McClure's Magazine	The Progressive Era and World War I	Muckraking periodical that published exposes by Ida Tarbell and Lincoln Steffens.
McCormick family	The Gilded Age and the West	Chicago dynasty founded on Cyrus McCormick's reaper invention and later the Chicago Tribune.
McCulloch v. Maryland	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1819 Supreme Court case upholding the national bank and federal supremacy over states.
mental asylums	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Institutions whose reform, championed by Dorothea Dix, sought more humane treatment of the mentally ill.
Mexico City	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Capital captured by US forces in 1847, ending the Mexican-American War.
Mirabeau Lamar	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Second president of the Republic of Texas, known for aggressive expansionism and Native removal policies.
Mitch McConnell	Contemporary America	Long-serving Kentucky senator and Senate Republican leader shaping judicial confirmations.
Mobile	States, Territories, and Cities	Alabama's major port city, founded by the French in the colonial era.
Monticello	American Revolution and the Founding	Thomas Jefferson's Virginia plantation home, which he designed himself.
Mount Vernon	American Revolution and the Founding	George Washington's Virginia plantation estate on the Potomac.
muckrakers	The Progressive Era and World War I	Investigative journalists like Sinclair, Tarbell, and Steffens who exposed corruption and abuses to spur reform.
Mugwumps	The Gilded Age and the West	Reform-minded Republicans who bolted the party in 1884 to support Cleveland over corruption concerns.
murder of Emmett Till	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1955 lynching of a Black teenager in Mississippi whose open-casket funeral galvanized the civil rights movement.
My Lai Massacre	The Cold War and Civil Rights	1968 killing of hundreds of Vietnamese civilians by US troops, a notorious Vietnam War atrocity.
NASA	Contemporary America	Federal space agency created 1958 that ran the Cold War-era Apollo Moon program.
National Recovery Administration	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	New Deal agency setting industry codes for wages and prices, later struck down by the Supreme Court.
National Review	Contemporary America	Conservative magazine founded 1955 by William F. Buckley Jr., influential in shaping the modern American right.
Native American reservations	The Gilded Age and the West	Federally designated lands where Native nations were confined following removal and the Indian Wars.
Native Americans	Colonial America	Indigenous peoples of North America whose nations and cultures predated, and were transformed by, European colonization.
Nauvoo, Illinois	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Mormon settlement built by Joseph Smith, site of his 1844 murder by a mob.
Navajo Nation	The Gilded Age and the West	Southwestern nation whose "Long Walk" removal in the 1860s and later Code Talkers in WWII mark its history.
Near v. Minnesota	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	1931 Supreme Court case establishing the doctrine against prior restraint of the press.
Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller	Contemporary America	Full name of the New York governor and Gerald Ford's vice president.
New Orleans, Louisiana	States, Territories, and Cities	Louisiana port city founded by the French; site of Jackson's 1815 victory; devastated by Hurricane Katrina.
New Zealand	States, Territories, and Cities
Newark, New Jersey	The Cold War and Civil Rights	New Jersey city that experienced major 1967 race riots amid urban decline.
Nez Perce	The Gilded Age and the West	Pacific Northwest nation whose 1877 flight toward Canada under Chief Joseph ended in surrender just short of the border.
Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	Italian anarchist immigrants controversially executed in 1927 for murder amid a climate of anti-radical prejudice.
Noble and Holy Order of the Knights of Labor	The Gilded Age and the West	Broad-based 1880s labor union that declined after being blamed for the Haymarket bombing.
Northwest Territory	American Revolution and the Founding	Region north of the Ohio River organized by the 1787 Northwest Ordinance, which banned slavery there.
NRA	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	National Recovery Administration, the New Deal agency that set industrial codes for wages and prices.
Nullification Crisis	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	1832-33 standoff after South Carolina declared federal tariffs void, resolved when Jackson threatened force and Congress compromised.
