California	States, Territories, and Cities	Westernmost major state; 1849 Gold Rush, admitted 1850 as free state; later center of film, tech, and agriculture.
Chicago	States, Territories, and Cities	Illinois metropolis rebuilt after the 1871 fire; hub of meatpacking and rail, site of the Haymarket riot and 1893 World's Fair.
Texas	States, Territories, and Cities	Independent republic after the Alamo and San Jacinto (1836), annexed 1845; seceded to the Confederacy; major oil producer.
Georgia	States, Territories, and Cities	Last of the thirteen colonies, founded 1732 by James Oglethorpe as a debtors' refuge; Sherman's 1864 March to the Sea ended there.
New York	States, Territories, and Cities	Former Dutch New Netherland; the Erie Canal fueled its rise as the nation's commercial and immigration gateway.
San Francisco	States, Territories, and Cities	California port built by the 1849 Gold Rush; devastated by the 1906 earthquake; center of 1960s counterculture and gay rights activism.
South Carolina	States, Territories, and Cities	First state to secede (December 1860); site of the Fort Sumter attack opening the Civil War; nullification crisis of 1832.
New York City	States, Territories, and Cities	Nation's largest city, founded as Dutch New Amsterdam; Tammany Hall machine politics; Ellis Island immigration gateway.
Andrew Jackson	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	7th President; War of 1812 hero at New Orleans; spoils system, Bank War, and Indian Removal defined "Jacksonian Democracy."
Virginia	States, Territories, and Cities	Site of Jamestown (1607), first permanent English colony; home to many early presidents; Confederate capital at Richmond.
Florida	States, Territories, and Cities	Spanish colony centered on St. Augustine; ceded to the US in 1819 by the Adams-Onis Treaty; scene of the Seminole Wars.
North Carolina	States, Territories, and Cities	Site of the failed Roanoke "Lost Colony"; Revolutionary War battles; Wright Brothers' first flight at Kitty Hawk.
Philadelphia	States, Territories, and Cities	Pennsylvania city that hosted the Continental Congresses and the Constitutional Convention.
Kansas	States, Territories, and Cities	"Bleeding Kansas" violence over slavery followed the 1854 Kansas-Nebraska Act; admitted as a free state in 1861.
Mississippi	States, Territories, and Cities	Deep South cotton state that seceded in 1861; site of Freedom Summer and the murder of Emmett Till.
Colorado	States, Territories, and Cities	"Centennial State" admitted 1876; grew from gold and silver mining booms.
Louisiana	States, Territories, and Cities	Acquired from France in the 1803 Louisiana Purchase; sugar and cotton economy centered on New Orleans.
Detroit	States, Territories, and Cities	Michigan city built by Ford and GM into the center of the US auto industry; 1967 riots and Motown Records.
Oklahoma	States, Territories, and Cities	Former Indian Territory ending the Trail of Tears; opened to settlement by the 1889 land run; oil-rich state.
Cherokee	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Southeastern nation forcibly removed along the 1838 Trail of Tears to Indian Territory; developed a syllabary under Sequoyah.
Massachusetts	States, Territories, and Cities	Puritan colony centered on Boston; scene of the Tea Party and Shays' Rebellion; early hub of abolitionism and industry.
Ronald Reagan	Contemporary America	40th President (1981-89); former actor and California governor; supply-side "Reaganomics" and the end of the Cold War.
Thomas Jefferson	American Revolution and the Founding	Principal author of the Declaration of Independence; 3rd President; doubled the nation's size with the Louisiana Purchase.
Los Angeles	States, Territories, and Cities	Southern California city built around the film and aerospace industries; site of the 1992 riots after the Rodney King verdict.
Rhode Island	States, Territories, and Cities	Founded by Roger Williams as a haven for dissenters like Anne Hutchinson; smallest state, last to ratify the Constitution.
Ulysses S. Grant	Civil War and Reconstruction	Union general who accepted Lee's surrender at Appomattox; 18th President whose Reconstruction-era administration was scandal-plagued.
Boston	States, Territories, and Cities	Massachusetts capital; site of the Tea Party, the Massacre, and the Revolutionary War's opening battles.
Iroquois Confederacy	Colonial America	Six Nations alliance (Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga, Seneca, Tuscarora) of upstate New York; largely allied with the British during the Revolution.
New Jersey	States, Territories, and Cities	Middle colony/state; scene of Revolutionary War battles at Trenton and Monmouth.
Abraham Lincoln	Civil War and Reconstruction	16th President who preserved the Union, issued the Emancipation Proclamation, and was assassinated in 1865.
Alexander Hamilton	American Revolution and the Founding	First Treasury Secretary; architect of the national bank and federal assumption of state debts; killed in an 1804 duel with Aaron Burr.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	32nd President; New Deal response to the Depression; led the nation through most of World War II; elected four times.
Maine	States, Territories, and Cities	Admitted 1820 as a free state under the Missouri Compromise, having separated from Massachusetts.
Michigan	States, Territories, and Cities	Great Lakes state centered on Detroit's auto industry; admitted 1837.
Ohio	States, Territories, and Cities	Formed from the Northwest Territory; birthplace of numerous presidents ("Mother of Presidents").
cotton	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Cash crop whose demand, spurred by Eli Whitney's gin, entrenched slavery and drove the antebellum South's economy ("King Cotton").
Alaska	States, Territories, and Cities	Purchased from Russia in 1867 ("Seward's Folly"); became the 49th state in 1959; rich in oil.
Frederick Douglass	Civil War and Reconstruction	Escaped slave who became a leading abolitionist orator, publisher, and advisor to Lincoln.
Harry S. Truman	The Cold War and Civil Rights	33rd President who ordered the atomic bombings of Japan, launched the Marshall Plan and Korean War, and desegregated the military.
Illinois	States, Territories, and Cities	Midwest state anchored by Chicago; Lincoln's adopted home state.
Indiana	States, Territories, and Cities	Midwest state admitted 1816; site of the Battle of Tippecanoe.
Bill Clinton	Contemporary America	42nd President (1993-2001); passed NAFTA and welfare reform; impeached over the Lewinsky affair.
Missouri	States, Territories, and Cities	Admitted 1821 under the Missouri Compromise; departure point for Lewis and Clark; divided border state in the Civil War.
Richard Nixon	The Cold War and Civil Rights	37th President who opened relations with China and ended the Vietnam War, then resigned in 1974 over Watergate.
War of 1812	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	Conflict with Britain featuring the burning of Washington, the writing of "The Star-Spangled Banner," and Jackson's Battle of New Orleans.
Arkansas	States, Territories, and Cities	Southern state; site of the 1957 Little Rock school desegregation crisis.
Pennsylvania	States, Territories, and Cities	Founded by William Penn as a Quaker refuge; hosted the Constitutional Convention and the Battle of Gettysburg.
Tennessee	States, Territories, and Cities	Border South state; Andrew Jackson's home; site of the 1925 Scopes evolution trial.
Washington, D.C.	States, Territories, and Cities	Federal capital planned by Pierre L'Enfant; burned by the British in 1814; site of the 1963 March on Washington.
West Virginia	States, Territories, and Cities	Broke from Virginia in 1863 over secession; coal-mining economy.
Wisconsin	States, Territories, and Cities	Midwest state known for the Progressive-era "Wisconsin Idea" under Robert La Follette.
Battle of Gettysburg	Civil War and Reconstruction	Turning-point 1863 battle in Pennsylvania featuring Pickett's Charge; site of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address.
George Washington	American Revolution and the Founding	Commander of the Continental Army; presided over the Constitutional Convention; first President.
Horace Greeley	The Gilded Age and the West	New York Tribune editor famed for "Go West, young man"; 1872 Liberal Republican challenger to Grant.
John Quincy Adams	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	6th President and son of John Adams; negotiated the Adams-Onis Treaty; later fought the gag rule as a congressman.
Ku Klux Klan	Civil War and Reconstruction	White-supremacist terrorist organization founded after the Civil War to intimidate freedpeople; resurged nationally in the 1920s.
Lyndon Baines Johnson	The Cold War and Civil Rights	36th President who signed the Civil Rights Act and built the Great Society while escalating the Vietnam War.
Maryland	States, Territories, and Cities	Founded by Lord Baltimore as a Catholic refuge; divided border state where Antietam was fought.
Puerto Rico	States, Territories, and Cities	Caribbean island ceded by Spain after the 1898 Spanish-American War; US territory/commonwealth.
Baltimore	States, Territories, and Cities	Maryland port city whose 1814 bombardment at Fort McHenry inspired "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Chicago, Illinois	States, Territories, and Cities	Rebuilt after the 1871 fire into a meatpacking and rail hub; hosted the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition.
German-Americans	The Gilded Age and the West	Large 19th-century immigrant group who settled the Midwest as farmers and brewers; faced suspicion during World War I.
Hawaii	States, Territories, and Cities	Annexed in 1898 after the overthrow of Queen Liliuokalani; site of the Pearl Harbor attack; became the 50th state in 1959.
Jamestown	Colonial America	First permanent English colony (1607) in Virginia, founded by the Virginia Company; John Smith and Pocahontas figure in its history.
John Adams	American Revolution and the Founding	2nd President and Federalist; signed the Alien and Sedition Acts; father of John Quincy Adams.
Kentucky	States, Territories, and Cities	Border state; site of Jefferson's anonymous Kentucky Resolutions against the Alien and Sedition Acts; Lincoln's birthplace.
New Deal	The Depression, New Deal, and World War II	FDR's relief, recovery, and reform programs (WPA, CCC, Social Security) responding to the Great Depression.
New Hampshire	States, Territories, and Cities	New England state known for holding the nation's first presidential primary.
Oregon	States, Territories, and Cities	Pacific Northwest territory settled via the Oregon Trail; joint US-British occupation resolved by an 1846 treaty.
Woodrow Wilson	The Progressive Era and World War I	28th President who led the US through World War I with his Fourteen Points and pushed for the League of Nations.
Alabama	States, Territories, and Cities	Deep South state; site of the Montgomery Bus Boycott and the Selma-to-Montgomery marches.
Barry Goldwater	Contemporary America	Arizona senator and 1964 Republican presidential nominee whose conservatism, and Reagan's "A Time for Choosing" speech, launched the modern right.
Battle of Chickamauga	Civil War and Reconstruction	1863 Confederate victory in Georgia; the war's bloodiest two-day battle in the Western theater.
Beecher	Civil War and Reconstruction	Surname of the reform-minded family including preacher Henry Ward Beecher and novelist Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Charles Sumner	Civil War and Reconstruction	Massachusetts abolitionist senator caned by Preston Brooks in 1856 after his "Crime Against Kansas" speech.
Connecticut	States, Territories, and Cities	New England colony organized under the 1639 Fundamental Orders; nicknamed the "Constitution State."
Cuba	The Gilded Age and the West	Spanish colony whose 1898 liberation led to the Platt Amendment; later scene of the Bay of Pigs and Missile Crisis under Castro.
Jimmy Carter	Contemporary America	39th President; brokered the Camp David Accords; presided over the Iran hostage crisis; later a Nobel Peace laureate.
John Brown	Civil War and Reconstruction	Radical abolitionist who led the Pottawatomie Massacre and the 1859 raid on the Harpers Ferry armory.
John Tyler	The Early Republic and Jacksonian America	10th President; first vice president to succeed a president who died in office (Harrison); annexed Texas.
