=== STOCK CLUES: Thomas Mann ===
Tossup questions: 16 found, 88 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 31 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann (The story in the first line is "Tobias Mindernickel.")
  - In a story by this author, the title character's obsessive need to show kindness leads him to stab his dog Esau so he can comfort it while dying.
  - One of this author's protagonists decides that he is unworthy to commit suicide after failing to find the courage to talk to Anna Reiner.
  - A novella by this author presents a dilemma in which Sita is in love with one man's body and another man's head after a supernatural incident of transposed heads.
  - This author of the semi-autobiographical short story "The Clown" also used his own life as the basis for the tormented artist Tonio Kroger.
  - The protagonist of one of this author's novellas collapses after attempting to rise to meet the handsome youth Tadzio.
  - For 10 points, name this German novelist of Death in Venice. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Mann [accept Thomas Mann, Heinrich Mann, Klaus Mann, or Erika Mann]
  - A member of this family used his former brother-in-law as the inspiration for an unscrupulous theater actor who denounces his half-African mistress in the novel Mephisto. [PWR]
  - Another member of this family obtained an English passport through a marriage of convenience with W.H. [PWR]
  - Auden. [PWR]
  - The author of Man of Straw was from this family, as was an author who depicted a character who hallucinates two (*) witches while caught skiing in a blizzard.
  - In that novel by a member of this family, the protagonist uses French to flirt with a Russian countess on Walpurgis Night.
  - A member of this family wrote a novel in which the democrat Settembrini and the Jesuit Naphta [naf-tuh] duel during Hans Castorp's stay in a Swiss sanatorium.
  - For 10 points, a member of what literary family wrote The Magic Mountain? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]
  - A novel (emphasize) about this author describes his "tacit agreements" with his wife not to "put domestic happiness in jeopardy." A novella by this author ends by praising the "bourgeois love" for "the happy, lovely, and commonplace." This author's half-Brazilian parentage inspired the family of a character who is mistaken for a criminal when he returns to his hometown without his papers, and who sees his two childhood loves dancing together at a Danish resort.
  - This European author's life is fictionalized in Colm Toibin's  novel The Magician.
  - Hanno dies of typhoid in a novel by this author about the collapse of a Lubeck grain merchant family.
  - For 10 points, the semi-autobiographical Tonio Kroger and Buddenbrooks are by what German author who wrote about Hans Castorp in The Magic Mountain? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Mann family [accept Thomas Mann or Paul Thomas Mann; accept Erika Mann or Erika Julia Hedwig Mann; accept Klaus Mann or Klaus Heinrich Thomas Mann]
  - In a novel by a member of this family, a biracial dancer who wields a red whip on stage as "Princess Tebab" is cast off by a sycophantic fictionalization of the actor Gustaf Grundgens.
  - A member of this family prompted a debate over "inner emigration" with radio speeches that broke with his longtime claim to be a "nonpolitical man." The author of Mephisto was the brother of a member of this family who studied Nazi education in School for Barbarians, obtained a British passport by marrying W.
  - H.
  - Auden, and drove overnight to Munich to rescue a 1,500-page tetralogy by her father.
  - Klaus and Erika's father from this family fictionalized Gyorgy Lukacs  as the terror-loving Jesuit Naphta, who spars with the humanist Settembrini in a novel set in Davos.
  - For 10 points, name this family of the author of Joseph and His Brothers and The Magic Mountain. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (The second line is Lotte in Weimar: The Beloved Returns by Thomas Mann. The parody is Friedrich Nicolai's The Joys of Young Werther.)
  - While pushing a rowboat into a lake, a woman in a novel by this author loses her footing and drops her baby cousin, causing him to drown. [PWR]
  - This author's childhood lover confronts him for fictionalizing her in a novel by a later author subtitled The Beloved Returns.
  - A contemporary of this author parodied one of his novels by adding chicken's blood to its final scene. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, the love Captain Otto feels for (*) Eduard's wife and Eduard feels for Ottilie are explained by chemical reactions. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author cries after the girl he loves says the name "Klopstock." That character created by this author of Elective Affinities is buried under a linden tree after he commits suicide due to Albert marrying his beloved Charlotte.
  - For 10 points, name this German author of The Sorrows of Young Werther. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]
  - One of this author's protagonists accidentally dances the female part to the quadrille, embarrassing himself in front of a crush whom he admired for her lack of interest in literature.
  - This author created a protagonist who returns to his hometown after the painter Lisaveta calls him a "lost burgher." After a barber in a book by this author helps the protagonist dye his hair and paint his face to look more youthful, he imagines himself as (*) Socrates lecturing Phaedrus on beauty. [PWR]
  - This author wrote about Goethe's fictionalization of his romance with Charlotte in the novel Lotte in Weimar.
  - Another of this author's protagonists becomes obsessed with the classical beauty of the Polish boy Tadzio.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the writer Gustav von Aschenbach in Death in Venice. [GIVE]

[T7] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]
  - A book by this author ends with its protagonist becoming reconciled with "a very chaste bliss" in a letter to Lizaveta.
  - In another book by this author, a band of street musicians performs a song in which each stanza ends with rhythmic mocking laughter.
  - In a novella by this author, the title character is surprised to see Hans Hansen and Ingeborg Holm together at a ball.
  - In another novella by this author, the protagonist dreams of a bacchanalia-like ritual dedicated to the "Stranger God" and stays at the Hotel des Bains.
  - This author depicted Consuelo's writer son, who tries to reconcile his Northern and Southern European sides, in Tonio Kroger.
  - For 10 points, name this German author who wrote about Gustav Aschenbach's obsession with Tadzio  in Death in Venice. [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]
  - A novella by this author ends as a sickly man watched a baby in a pram gleefully shake a rattle in front of the setting sun after bonding with a woman during a Wagner piano recital. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, a cuckolded husband performs in drag as "Little Lizzy" while accompanied by his singer wife and her musician lover. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, a lonely old man slashes his dog with a knife while trying to feed him bread. [PWR]
  - This author of the novella (*) Tristan and the story "Tobias Mindernickel" satirized the rise of Fascism in a story in which the narrator and his family encounter the hypnotist Cipolla as they vacation in Torre di Venere.
  - Another vacationeer created by this author dies after eating some bad strawberries and spies on the Polish boy Tadzio.
  - For 10 points, name this German author of "Mario and the Magician" and "Death in Venice." [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann
  - In a work by this author, a man in a bowler hat reports a tourist who had told his daughter to bathe naked on a beach to clean her bathing suit. [PWR]
  - In that work by this author, a man gifts a lady a pin with the phrase "Pensez tres fort" , having earlier made a heckler stick his tongue out at the audience by cracking a whip. [PWR]
  - An allegory of fascism by this author climaxes with a youth shooting an (*) entertainer who'd hypnotized him into kissing his cheek. [PWR]
  - This creator of the magician Cipolla  also wrote a novella about a recently-ennobled author who eats some over-ripe strawberries after losing sight of a boy he is stalking, Tadzio , leading to his contraction of cholera.
  - For 10 points, name this German author of Mario and the Magician and Death in Venice. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Mann [or Thomas Mann; or Heinrich Mann; or Erika Mann; or Klaus Mann]
  - In a novel by an author with this last name, a schoolteacher resigns his position to marry the strip dancer Rosa after he had adopted the nickname "garbage" to express his antipathy towards the world.
  - Two siblings with this surname wrote the nonfiction accounts Escape to Life and School for Barbarians.
  - Erika, a writer with this surname, married W.
  - H.
  - Auden to flee from Europe to England.
  - This is the surname of Heinrich, whose book Professor Unrat was adapted into the movie The Blue Angel.
  - An author with this surname wrote a novel in which Tony agrees to her father's wishes by marrying the bankrupt Grunlich in a series of financial disasters for the title family of Lubeck merchants.
  - For 10 points, identify this surname of Thomas, the author of Buddenbrooks. [GIVE]

[T11] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann
  - This author created a character who begins to adopt another character's use of the phrase "sine pecunia," meaning "without cost."In one of this author's novels, characters crucially begin to speak of "we up here," rather than "those up here." One of his protagonists is arrested while walking through Denmark to his hometown, and then hallucinates seeing his childhood friends Hans and Ingeborg dancing at a ball.
  - In a novel by him, a woman named Tony goes to a Baltic sea resort to escape from Grunlich, who wants to marry her for her family's money.
  - In another novel by this author of Tonio Kroger, Naphtha and Settembrini hold philosophical debates in the Swiss sanatorium in which Hans Castorp spends seven years.
  - For 10 points, name this German author of Buddenbrooks and The Magic Mountain. [GIVE]

[T12] 2015 VICO (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Franz Kafka [accept "Kafka and his Precursors" or "Kafka y sus Precursores"; accept "Franz Kafka or Thomas Mann?" or "Franz Kafka oder Thomas Mann?"]
  - Georges Bataille discussed this author's "perfect puerility" in a section of Literature and Evil.
  - One essay about this author lists: a ninth-century apologue by Han Yu, Lord Dunsany's story "Carcassonne," and Zeno's paradox as a few of this author's "precursors." Another work about this author references an anecdote in which an insane man fishes in a bathtub, before noting that in one of this author's novels, "Flesh wins out." That appendix to a longer essay opens by stating that the "whole art" of this author "consists in forcing the reader to reread," and discusses the existence of (*) "hope" in his writings. [PWR]
  - This author is the exemplar of "aesthetically appealing, but decadent modernism," in contrast to "fruitful critical realism," in an essay titled after a choice between him and the author of "Felix Krull." Other critics have pointed out this author's debt to Dickens in his unfinished first novel centering on Karl Rossmann's arrival in the title country.
  - For 10 points, name this author whom Gyorgy Lukacs contrasted with Thomas Mann, and who also wrote Amerika and The Trial. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann
  - This author wrote a novella in which two men decapitate themselves before a statue of Kali, only to have Sita place the wrong heads on each body. [PWR]
  - This author created a character who is embarrassed when he is called "Fraulein" after making an incorrect move in a dance class and becomes infatuated with Ingeborg Holm. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author has a dream about a swampland dotted with islands and encounters several (*) red-haired men in straw hats. [PWR]
  - One of this author's novels depicts the divorces of Antonie from Herr Grunlich and Herr Parmeneder and her brother Christian's quarrels with Tom, which lead to the decline of the title merchant family.
  - One character created by this man dies after consuming some over-ripe strawberries and has a loving obsession with a Polish boy named Tadzio while on vacation.
  - For 10 points, name the author of Buddenbrooks and Death in Venice. [GIVE]

[T14] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: the Mann family [or Heinrich Mann; or Thomas Mann]
  - An author with this last name wrote a novel whose hyperpatriotic protagonist argues with the soldier Wolfgang Buck and makes a political alliance with his nemesis Napoleon Fischer. [PWR]
  - Another author of this surname spent sixteen years "transforming myth into flesh" in the form of a four-part novel about a man who is exiled to Egypt, where he serves as Akhenaten's steward. [PWR]
  - The author of Man of Straw shares this surname with the creator of the doomed child Echo Nepomuk and a character who uses an (*) "H, E, A, E, E-flat" motif to represent a woman called "Hetaera Esmeralda".
  - That author with this surname wrote Joseph and his Brothers and a novel narrated by Serenus Zeitblom in which the composer of Apocalypsis cum Figuris voluntarily contracts syphilis to increase his artistic output.
  - For 10 points, give the surname shared by Heinrich and his brother, Doktor Faustus author Thomas. [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 Gorilla Lit (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: [Paul] Thomas Mann
  - The protagonists of a story by this author hide alcohol-filled chocolates in a box of maraschino cherries, and have sex atop a bearskin after returning home from the opera. [PWR]
  - In another of this author's stories, an unnamed principessa is alarmed by the sound of a kid's whooping cough, resulting in the expulsion of a family from a hotel, and one of the title characters points to his cheek to signal a man to kiss it.
  - This author scandalized society with a story about the incestuous relationship between the twin brother and sister (*) Siegmund and Sieglinde in his story "Blood of the Walsungs." A crowd mobs a chocolate and biscotti vendor after he fatally shoots a sinister street hypnotist named Cipolla in another story by this author. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this German author whose "Mario and the Magician" is often collected along with Death in Venice. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Mann
  - A boarding school in one of this author's novels is run by a hunchbacked crone named Sesame Weichbrodt.
  - In that novel, the alcoholic hops merchant Alois Permaneder is briefly married to Tony, who also has a brief and loveless marriage to Bendix Grunlich.
  - In another of his novels, Mynheer Peeperkorn and the protagonist are both attracted to the intriguing Russian woman Clavdia Chauchat.
  - In one of his novels, Christian ends up in an insane asylum and Hanno dies of typhus, which is the culmination of the decline of the title family.
  - He wrote about the contrasting philosophies of Naphta and Settembrini in a novel about Hans Castorp's stay in a Swiss sanatorium.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Buddenbrooks and The Magic Mountain, who also wrote Death in Venice. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author's plans to write about a music-loving member of this family named Hanno snowballed into a massive novel, as the author felt the need to explain the prior two generations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buddenbrook family [accept Buddenbrooks]):
    Name this family of grain merchants from Lubeck ("LOO-beck") who title a novel based heavily on its author's own family, which includes his brother and fellow writer Heinrich.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]):
    Buddenbrooks is by this German author, who also wrote The Magic Mountain and Death in Venice.
  Part 3 (ans: teeth [accept wisdom teeth or other types of teeth; accept fake teeth or other equivalents; prompt on mouth or jaws]):
    Trouble with these things leads to meetings with Herr Brecht, who instills dread into young members of the Buddenbrooks. In Death in Venice, Gustav meets a foppish man with a hideous set of these things.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poetry collection titled for this character describes "the wine through our eyes we drink" and inspired a piece that pioneered the Sprechstimme ("SHPRECK-shtim-uh") technique. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pierrot ("p'yeh-ROH") [accept Pierrot lunaire]):
    Name this "sad clown" character from the commedia dell'arte tradition. Arnold Schoenberg adapted an Albert Giraud ("zhee-ROH") cycle titled for this character "moonstruck," or "lunaire."
  Part 2 (ans: Malina):
    This novel's narrator quotes the line "the wine through our eyes we drink" and provides an image of the score from Pierrot Lunaire while describing Ungargassenland. The narrator of this novel by Ingeborg Bachmann disappears into a crack in the wall.
  Part 3 (ans: Doktor Faustus (by Thomas Mann)):
    Theodor Adorno's explanations of Schoenberg's twelve-tone technique aided in the conception of this novel, which caused a feud between Schoenberg and its author. This novel follows the composer Adrian Leverkuhn.

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A wealthy woman in this play is carried to the Golden Apostle Inn by a "pair of gum-chewing brutes" named Toby and Roby. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Visit [or Der Besuch der alten Dame]):
    Name this play in which a woman offers a billion dollars to the town of Gullen if one of its townspeople kills Alfred Ill ("ill").
  Part 2 (ans: physics [or The Physicists]):
    The Visit was written by Swiss playwright Friedrich Durrenmatt, who also wrote a play titled for practitioners of this scientific field, in which two men believe themselves to be Albert Einstein and Isaac Newton.
  Part 3 (ans: sanatoriums [or asylums; or mental institutions; prompt on hospitals] [The second sentence refers to Thomas Mann's The Magic Mountain.]):
    Durrenmatt set The Physicists in one of these locations. In a novel, the Jesuit Naphta commits suicide during a duel with the humanist Settembrini at one of these locations.

[B4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A. E. Ellis's stay in one of these places inspired the setting of his novel about the student Paul Davenant, The Rack. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sanatoriums [accept tuberculosis hospitals or clear equivalents; prompt on hospitals or resorts]):
    Name these places. Residents of a fictional one of these places include an Italian Liberal who finds music "politically suspect" and a woman with "Kirghiz ("KEER-ghiz") Eyes".
  Part 2 (ans: Tristan):
    A sanatorium is the setting of The Magic Mountain and this other novella where Detlev Spinell and Gabriele Kloterjahn ("ga-bree-EH-leh KLER-ter-yahn") bond while playing the second act of a Wagner piece on piano.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    The Magic Mountain and Tristan were written by this author of Buddenbrooks.

[B5] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet wrote that "On thinking of hell, I gather / My brother Shelley found it was" "much like... London," whereas for that poet it was this city, where many artists gathered at Leon Feuchtwanger's "Villa Aurora." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Los Angeles):
    Name this city. A character in a novel written in this city sings the word "Weisengrund" as a barely hidden thank you to a philosopher whose private music lectures in it influenced the ideas of that novel's Wendell Kretzchmar.
  Part 2 (ans: Doctor Faustus):
    Theodor Adorno delivered the lectures that became this novel, whose author was convinced by Adorno not to redeem composer Adrian Leverkuhn at its end.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    Alma Mahler convinced a composer that this author of Doctor Faustus was stealing the twelve-tone technique, which this author then claimed he owned by adding color to it. This author also wrote Buddenbrooks.

[B6] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Tony becomes friends with her teacher "Sesemi," who later continues to support Tony's daughter and granddaughter. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buddenbrooks):
    Name this novel, which uses motifs such as Hanno's breakfast cup of hot chocolate to symbolize decadence. This novel depicts four generations of a declining merchant family in Lubeck.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This author drew on his family's history in Lubeck for the novel Buddenbrooks. This German author also wrote Death in Venice.
  Part 3 (ans: Erika Mann [Erika Julia Hedwig Mann]):
    Tony's daughter in Buddenbrooks shares her name with this daughter of Thomas Mann. With her brother, Klaus, this author wrote about exiled German cultural and political figures who frequented the Mann household in the 1930s as part of the essay collection Escape to Life.

[B7] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Magic Mountain, the fictional Lodovico Settembrini is a student of this real-life poet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giosue Carducci):
    Name this poet of the Barbarian Odes who wrote "Matter, exalt thyself! ... A fair and terrible / Monster unchained / Courses the oceans" in a "Hymn to Satan." A patriotic hymn by this poet about the White Cross of Savoy may have led to the adoption of the Italian flag.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]):
    The Magic Mountain is a novel by this German author of Death in Venice.
  Part 3 (ans: Giacomo Leopardi):
    In real life, Carducci edited and published the Zibaldone ("zib-al-DOH-nay"), a reflection-filled diary by this earlier Italian writer and classicist. The poems "To Silvia" and "The Infinite" appear in his collection Canti.

[B8] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In an Arthur Schnitzler novella titled for this sort of event, Albertina imagines having sex with a Danish officer while her husband Fridolin is crucified. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dreams [accept Dream Story or Traumnovelle]):
    Name these events. During one of these events in a Leopold von Sacher-Masoch novel, an encounter with Venus wearing furs prompts the protagonist to read Memoirs of a Suprasensual Man.
  Part 2 (ans: German [or Deutsch]):
    Schnitzler and Sacher-Masoch wrote in this language, which Hermann Hesse used for Siddharta.
  Part 3 (ans: Death in Venice [or Der Tod in Venedig] (by Thomas Mann)):
    In this German novel, the vacationing protagonist has a dream in which worshippers circle around a symbol representing the "Stranger God."

[B9] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. Near the end of this work, the author quotes William Faulkner's line "I decline to accept the end of man." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Garcia Marquez's Nobel acceptance speech [prompt on Nobel acceptance speech by asking, "Whose speech?"; accept BUT DO NOT REVEAL OTHERWISE "The Solitude of Latin America"]):
    Name or describe this work which opens by commenting on the fantastical creatures observed by Antonio Pigafetta during Magellan's first voyage.
  Part 2 (ans: solitude [or soledad; accept "The Solitude of Latin America"; accept One Hundred Years of Solitude or Cien anos de soledad]):
    That speech is titled for [this concept] "of Latin America." Garcia Marquez wrote a novel about the Buendia family titled One Hundred Years of [this concept].
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]):
    In the speech, Garcia Marquez states that he doesn't wish to "embody the illusions" of "uniting a chaste north to a passionate south" like the title character of this European author's novella Tonio Kroger.

[B10] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This legendary figure has been the subject of countless literary adaptations by authors such as Charles Marlow and Johann Goethe ("gert-ah"). For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Faust):
    Name this figure of German legend who sells his soul to the devil in exchange for unlimited knowledge.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    One notable literary adaptation of the Faust legend is Doctor Faustus, by this author. That work by this author sets the Faust legend in the 20th century amidst the rise of Nazism and is based in part on the life of Friedrich Nietzsche.
  Part 3 (ans: Death in Venice [accept Der Tod in Venedig]):
    Another key work by Thomas Mann is this 1912 novella. This novella follows the writer Gustav von Aschenbach [ah-sken-bak] who becomes obsessed with a boy named Tadzio while vacationing in Italy.

[B11] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author created a character who gives her servants the rhyming names Boby, Koby, and Loby. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Friedrich Durrenmatt (The plays are The Visit and The Physicists.)):
    Name this author who wrote a play that ends with Mathilde von Zahnd revealing her plans for world domination. In another play by this author, Claire Zachanassian offers a large bounty to a town if they kill Anton Schill.
  Part 2 (ans: epic [or epic theatre; or episches; accept dialectical theatre]):
    Durrenmatt was a proponent of a theatrical movement described by this adjective, which Bertolt Brecht characterized as making heavy use of the "alienation effect" in his essay "A Short Organum for the Theatre."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]):
    This German author set his novel The Magic Mountain in a sanatorium in Durrenmatt's home country of Switzerland.

[B12] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a class on this activity, the narrator of a novel meets a young Canadian genius who calls Wertheimer "The Loser." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: playing piano [prompt on playing music or playing an instrument] [The last two works are The Piano Teacher and Tristan.]):
    Name this activity that the repressed Erika Kohut teaches Walter Klemmer in an Elfriede Jelinek (el-FREE-duh YEL-in-ek) novel. Gabriele has a tuberculosis relapse after doing this activity at Detlev Spinell's request in a novella.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This author's grandson gave his piano to the German state, which then performed the last sonata of Beethoven discussed in his novel Doctor Faustus. Gustav Mahler partly inspired the character Gustav von Aschenbach in this author's Death in Venice.
  Part 3 (ans: the Magic Theater [or Zaubertheater; or Das Magische Theater] [from Hermann Hesse's Steppenwolf]):
    The protagonist of another novel witnesses Brahms and Wagner "striving for redemption" in this location while speaking with Mozart. The saxophonist Pablo brings the narrator to this place "for madmen only."

[B13] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An illusionist describes this character's name as one that "preserve[s] the historical traditions of the Fatherland" before mimicking the voice of this character's love Silvestra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mario [accept Mario and the Magician or Mario und der Zauberer (by Thomas Mann)]):
    Name this title character of a novella who, after being made to kiss a hypnotist on stage, shoots that hypnotist twice before a mob swarms upon him.
  Part 2 (ans: fascism [prompt on totalitarianism or authoritarianism or Nazism]):
    The hypnotist Cipolla is often read as an allegorical leader of this ideology. Fourteen features of this ideology are listed in an essay whose author recalls being disappointed after hearing Benito Mussolini speak live.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco (The novel is Numero Zero.)):
    This author listed the fourteen features in "Ur-Fascism." Braggadocio becomes convinced that Mussolini survived World War II while two hack journalists have an affair in a novel by this author.

[B14] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a prefatory note to a novel, this writer remarked that "the violet had to be cast into the crucible, the organic work of art to be remoulded in another tongue." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Helen Tracy Lowe-Porter):
    Name this writer, best known for translating almost all of a certain German author's works into English. This writer chose the word "magic" for the title of one of those works, though its original author preferred "enchanted."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This is the aforementioned German author that Lowe-Porter translated. Her translation of this author's first novel, Buddenbrooks, was critical in introducing him to American and British audiences.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph [accept Joseph and His Brothers or Joseph und seine Bruder]):
    While translating Mann's novel about this character, Lowe-Porter wrote that she had to "emasculate" Mann's style. The last of the four parts of Mann's novel about this character is titled for him as "Provider."

[B15] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This many tables are used during the meal times at the Berghof sanatorium, where a carnival takes place this many months after Hans's arrival. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: seven [prompt on Settembrini by saying "we're looking for the number in his name] (The character is Ludovico Settembrini.)):
    Give this number. In the same novel, the Italian word for this number is found in the surname of a character who intellectually spars with a Jewish convert to Catholicism named Leo Naphta.
  Part 2 (ans: The Magic Mountain [or Die Zauberberg] (by Thomas Mann.)):
    In this novel, Settembrini mentors Hans Castorp during his seven-year-long stay at Berghof.
  Part 3 (ans: christening basins [or baptismal font, or baptismal bowl; prompt on bowl]):
    The second chapter of The Magic Mountain is titled for one of these religious objects and recounts Hans visiting his grandfather, who shows him an ornate example of them used by seven generations of Castorps.

[B16] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, a Paris resident originally from this country muses on the noble death of his grandfather and abruptly leaves the Salpetriere ("sall-pet-tree-AIR") Hospital while waiting to undergo electroshock therapy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Denmark [or Kingdom of Denmark; or Kongeriget Danmark] (The authors are Martin Anderson Nexø and Karl Adolph Gjellerup.)):
    Name this country, the hub of a naturalist movement called the "Modern Breakthrough," which included the authors of Pelle the Conqueror and The Pilgrim Kamanita.
  Part 2 (ans: Rainer Maria Rilke ("RYE-ner muh-REE-uh RIL-kuh") [or Rene Karl Wilhelm Johann Josef Maria Rilke]):
    J. P. Jacobsen's Modern Breakthrough novel Niels Lyhne ("LUNE-uh") influenced this author's The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge ("MELT-uh LAO-rids BRIG-ih"). This author wrote of always carrying Jacobsen's novels with him in his Letters to a Young Poet.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This other German author cited Jacobsen as having had the greatest influence on his style. His novels include The Magic Mountain.

[B17] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's best-known work is written using an orthography based on "etyms" ("ET-ims"), units of words that supposedly reveal their author's subconscious thoughts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arno Schmidt):
    Name this author who wrote about an aging translator of Edgar Allan Poe in his novel Bottom's Dream.
  Part 2 (ans: Patrick Suskind):
    This other German author's novel The Pigeon is peppered with allusions to Poe's "The Raven." He wrote about Jean-Baptiste Grenouille ("gruh-NOO-ee"), who murders young women for their scent, in his novel Das Parfum.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann (The novel is Death in Venice.)):
    Suskind's On Love and Death discusses this author's obsession with a teenage waiter named Franzl. This author wrote a novel about Gustav von Aschenbach's infatuation with the teenage Polish boy Tadzio ("TAH-joe").

[B18] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel by this author, Sibylla spurns the advances of the Duke and instead copulates with her brother Wiligis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    Name this author who wrote about the abandoned child Gregory, who marries his mother Sibylla in Holy Sinner. This author also described Gustav von Aschenbach's yearning for the Polish boy Tadzio in Death in Venice.
  Part 2 (ans: Switzerland [or Swiss Confederation; or Confederation Suisse; or Confederazione Elvetica; or Confederazione Svizzera; or Confederaziun Helvetica; or Helvetia; or the Helvetic Republic; or Schweiz; or Schweizerische Eidgenossenschaft]):
    Max Frisch's Homo Faber, whose protagonist is from this country, also contains themes of incest, as the protagonist accidentally has sex with his daughter Hanna, whom he thought was aborted. Jakob von Gunten author Robert Walser is also from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Georges Bataille ["Bah-tie"]):
    This author often had to write about sexual topics like incest under a pseudonym as he did for his perverse My Mother. This French author wrote about the sexual exploits of the exhibitionist narrator and his lover Simone in "The Story of an Eye."

[B19] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, Victor declines to join Nina and her husband Ferdinand for a car journey, and later learns that they have died in a crash. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vladimir Nabokov):
    Name this author, whose story 'Signs and Symbols' ends with an unnamed couple's telephone ominously ringing a third time after they have already received two misdials from a girl asking for Charlie.
  Part 2 (ans: a sanatorium [accept an asylum or a psychiatric hospital; prompt on hospital]):
    In Nabokov's story 'Signs and Symbols', the main couple tries to take a set of fruit jellies to their son in one of these locations. In a novel, a character meets Settembrini and Naphta in one of these locations, after going there to visit his cousin Joachim.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This German author wrote about Hans Castorp visiting a sanatorium in the Alps in his novel The Magic Mountain.

[B20] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character takes pleasure in operating a newly acquired gramophone to play excerpts from works like La Traviata and The Tales of Hoffmann. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hans Castorp [accept either or both underlined parts]):
    Name this character whose visit to a Swiss Alps sanatorium to see his tubercular cousin Joachim Ziemssen is prolonged by his own failing health.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    In a lecture given at Princeton, this German creator of Hans Castorp spoke of Wagnerian influences, including the use of leitmotifs, in his novels like Buddenbrooks and The Magic Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: Clawdia Chauchat [accept either or both underlined parts]):
    A leitmotif used in The Magic Mountain is Castorp borrowing a pencil. He does this once from a childhood schoolmate with "Kirghiz eyes," and once from this Russian patient, his romantic interest in the novel.

[B21] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The inspiration for this character has been identified as Baron Wladyslaw Moes, the subject of Gilbert Adair's book The Real [this character]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tadzio):
    Name this 14 year old character who first appears wearing a sailor costume. He fights with an older boy named Jasiu who he meets while staying with his aristocratic family at a hotel.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    Although this author was only 36 when he became infatuated with Wladyslaw, he aged himself up significantly into the middle-aged character Gustav von Aschenbach while writing Death in Venice. He also wrote The Magic Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: Henryk Sienkiewicz ):
    Oddly enough, Mann was not the only Nobel winner to take an interest in Wladyslaw. According to Adair's biography, this other author spotted the boy at a wedding when he was six and dandled him until he urinated on this author's lap. He's best known for writing about Roman lovers Marcus and Lycia in the novel Quo Vadis.

[B22] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's beauty so distracts a group of women peeling oranges with sharp knives that they cut their fingers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph [or Joseph and His Brothers; or Joseph und seine Bruder]):
    Name this character who is antagonized by the malicious dwarf Dudu, a possible caricature of Nazi officials, in a series of books culminating in a novel in which the warden Mai-sachme puts him in charge of prisoners, titled: [this character] the Provider.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]):
    This German author spent the better part of sixteen years writing the four-volume Joseph and His Brothers, his first foray into long fiction after finishing The Magic Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: United States of America [or USA; or America]):
    Mann drew parallels between Joseph's wise governance of Egypt in Joseph the Provider and the economic policies advanced by the leader of this country, where he finished the tetralogy in exile during the Second World War, joining other German expatriates like Adorno and Brecht.

[B23] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the opening scene of the novel they appear in, a member of this family holds his granddaughter Tony in his lap and helps her recite the Lutheran catechism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Buddenbrooks family):
    Name this fictional family whose members include the Consul and his father, Johann. The line of this family ends after its last male member, Hanno, dies of typhoid.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann [or Paul Thomas Mann]):
    Buddenbrooks was the first novel written by this German author of Death in Venice.
  Part 3 (ans: The World as Will and Representation [or Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung]):
    Thomas Buddenbrook dies from a botched tooth extraction shortly after having an emotional reaction to a chapter of this book. Thomas Mann published and edited an abridged version of this philosophical text in 1948.

[B24] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character assumes the name "Armand" while working in a hotel, in which guise he seduces Madame Houpfle, who enjoys being humiliated. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Felix Krull [accept either name]):
    Identify this character who later disguises himself as the Marquis de Venosta and seduces both Professor Kuckuck's daughter Zouzou and his wife Maria Pia.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    The Confessions of Felix Krull, Confidence Man is a novel by this German author who also wrote "Tonio Kroger," and "Mario and the Magician."
  Part 3 (ans: Helen Tracy Lowe-Porter):
    Felix Krull was one of the only two works of Mann that weren't translated by this woman, the first person to bring Mann to an English-speaking audience, although her translations would later be criticized for inaccuracy.

[B25] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Despite the Nazi ban on Jewish writers, Richard Strauss fought to keep this man's credit for writing the libretto for his opera The Silent Woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stefan Zweig):
    Identify this author of an extremely popular biography of Erasmus. In a novella by this author, Dr. B steals a book on chess moves and becomes so adept at the game that he can split his personality into white and black and defeats the champion Czentovic on a cruise liner.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Mann):
    This other German-language author complained that Zweig "should never have granted the Nazis this triumph" by committing suicide. He wrote short stories like "Little Lizzy" and "The Clown" in addition to a novel about sanatorium resident Hans Castorp.
  Part 3 (ans: Amok):
    Zweig's The Royal Game is sometimes published with this other novella, whose title condition is described as "a sort of human rabies, an attack of murderous, pointless monomania". In this novella, a doctor from Leipzig refuses to perform an abortion on the woman he loves, so she tries to get it done by a local healer, but dies during the operation.
