=== STOCK CLUES: Nixon in China ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 21 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: China [or People's Republic of China; or PRC; accept A Night at the Chinese Opera; accept Nixon in China]
  - In an opera set in this country, a construction supervisor oversees a group of actors who perform a revenge play that parallels the opera's real-life events; that opera titled for this country was the first full-scale opera by Judith Weir. [PWR]
  - A woman in another opera set in this country sings, "I used to be a teacher many years ago" after receiving a gift of a small glass elephant. [PWR]
  - The aria "This is (*) prophetic" is sung in an opera set in this country that was the composer's first collaboration with Alice Goodman.
  - The title character of an opera set in this country travels in the Spirit of '76 and watches The Red Detachment of Women with its chairman.
  - For 10 points, name this country that Richard Nixon visits in a John Adams opera. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | History
     Answer: Richard Nixon's China visit in 1972 [or Nixon in China; or the United States establishing diplomatic relations with China; or anything that involves Richard Nixon and The People's Republic of China; or anything that involves the U.S. recognizing China; prompt on the opening of China]
  - This event might have occurred earlier if the United States had properly read signals about journalist Edgar Snow being included in a parade. [PWR]
  - The man who instigated this "week that changed the world" sent messages through Yahya Khan of Pakistan prior to it. [PWR]
  - During this event, the National Zoo in Washington was gifted two new animals. [PWR]
  - In preparation for this event, Secretary of State William P. [PWR]
  - Rogers announced that the US would end its opposition to another (*) nation joining the UN. [PWR]
  - A year prior to this event, travel visas were offered to members of the US Table Tennis Team.
  - This event was organized through secret meetings between Henry Kissinger and Zhou Enlai.
  - For 10 points, identify this event in which an American president visited with Mao Zedong. [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nixon in China
  - One character in this opera interrupts a performance to help a character she thinks is being whipped to death. [PWR]
  - The orchestra for this opera is strengthened by two pianos and four saxophones, among others. [PWR]
  - The title character of this opera sings "News has a kind of mystery" when contemplating the effects of his actions, and that character's wife sings (*) "This is prophetic" while imagining her future after visiting a children's school. [PWR]
  - A chorus sings "The Three Main Rules of Discipline" at the beginning of this opera in which the main characters watch a performance of The Red Detachment of Women.
  - For 10 points, beginning with the landing of the plane the Spirit of '76, name this minimalist opera about a US president's international visit by John Adams. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 Delta Burke (2012) | Diff: 6 | History
     Answer: Nixon in China
  - One aria in this opera is "The News," sung by the title figure after he has disembarked from his aircraft, The Spirit of '76.
  - Prior to that, a welcoming group has sung "The Eight Points of Attention" to the title figure and his wife, who later sings the aria "This Is Prophetic" at the summer palace.
  - At a performance within this opera, the title figure's wife rushes on stage to protect a peasant girl she mistakenly thinks is actually being whipped; that performance within a performance is "The Red Detachment of Women." For 10 points what minimalist opera by John Adams features "The Chairman Dances" and chronicles a certain president's visit with Chou En-Lai? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This patron commissioned an adaptation of the opera Sparks Amid the Reeds, but her husband changed its title because he found it unrealistic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jiang Qing [or Madame Mao, Li Jinhai, Li Shumeng, Li Yunhe, Li He, Li Jin, Li Runqing, or Lan Ping; prompt on Li or Lan; prompt on Mao's wife; reject "Mao"] (The leadin refers to Shajiabang. The unnamed opera is Nixon in China.)):
    Name this patron who commissioned five operas, two ballets, and one symphony with populist themes. An orchestral excerpt of another opera depicts this woman dancing a foxtrot.
  Part 2 (ans: Beijing [or Peking; prompt on jingju or jingxi by asking, "what city is that named after?"]):
    Jiang Qing adapted the "model play" Sparks Amid the Reeds from Shanghai opera into a style of opera named for this northern city, which is the dominant form of opera in China.
  Part 3 (ans: face paint [or descriptions of the color of the performers' faces; accept Hualian; accept face makeup; accept painted masks or colorful masks; prompt on paint or Hua; prompt on color by asking, "of what?"; prompt on masks by asking, "what characteristic of the masks?"]):
    Description acceptable. Chinese opera uses a detailed "code" based on this visual feature to represent the morality and personality of male jing roles. A different type of this visual feature characterizes chou roles.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about ballets titled for the color red, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Nixon [or Richard Milhous Nixon; accept Nixon in China]):
    This politician and his wife watch the ballet The Red Detachment of Women in a John Adams opera that fictionalizes his 1972 visit to China.
  Part 2 (ans: sailors [accept Russian sailors' dance or "Dance of the Sailors from the Soviet Ship"; accept Sailor's Hornpipe; accept mariners]):
    Reinhold Gliere's ballet The Red Poppy popularized the yablochko ("YA-blutch-kuh"), or "little apple," a Russian folk dance associated with people of this profession. In the UK, people of this profession often performed the hornpipe dance.
  Part 3 (ans: Matthew Bourne [or Matthew Christopher Bourne]):
    This choreographer used Bernard Herrmann's film scores for the music of a ballet adaptation of the Powell and Pressburger film The Red Shoes. Male dancers play the swans in this choreographer's version of Swan Lake.

[B3] 2025 ACF Fall (2025) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece's composer described its woodblock ostinato as "almost sadistic." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Short Ride in a Fast Machine):
    Name this piece originally titled Fanfare for Great Woods. This piece by John Adams depicts a journey in a "terrific sports car."
  Part 2 (ans: minimalism [accept postminimalism; accept postminimal]):
    Short Ride in a Fast Machine is often described as being "post" this musical style, whose composers include John Cage and Phillip Glass. Trademark features of this style include layers of ostinati and repeating patterns with gradual changes.
  Part 3 (ans: China [or Zhongguo; or People's Republic of China; accept PRC; accept China Gates; accept Nixon in China; reject "Republic of China"]):
    John Adams' "Opus One" includes his piano pieces Phrygian Gates and a piece titled for the Gates of this country. Adams also wrote an opera about Richard Nixon's groundbreaking 1972 visit to this country.

[B4] 2023 CREEK+ (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This character wishes to be "a grain of sand" in an aria where she shrieks, "I speak according to the book." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Madame Mao [or Chiang Ch'ing or Jiang Qing; accept the wife of Mao Zedong; prompt on Mao; reject "Mao Zedong" or "Chairman Mao"]):
    Name this coloratura soprano role who sings that aria after the performance of a ballet is interrupted by another character who believes that a peasant girl is being whipped to death.
  Part 2 (ans: Nixon in China):
    Madame Mao appears in this John Adams opera about the title American president's visit to an Asian country.
  Part 3 (ans: foxtrots):
    Madame and Chairman Mao perform one of these dances in an "outtake" from Nixon in China subtitled "[one of these dances] for Orchestra." These smooth ballroom dances are often set to swing music and use waltz-like rise and fall motions in 4/4 time.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A Puccini-inspired opera by this composer is based on letters written during the California Gold Rush. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Adams [or John Coolidge Adams] (The other opera is The Death of Klinghoffer.)):
    Name this composer of another opera in which the protagonist sings the "Aria of the Falling Body" as he is thrown overboard the Achille Lauro.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Nixon [or Richard Milhous Nixon; accept Nixon in China]):
    The aria "This is prophetic" is sung in the Summer Palace by this president's wife Pat in another opera by Adams, which tells the story of his 1972 visit to China to visit Mao Zedong.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    The original production of Nixon in China was produced by this theater director. This director also wrote the libretti for Adams's operas Girls of the Golden West and Doctor Atomic.

[B6] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about operas by John Adams, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Antony AND Cleopatra [accept Mark Antony or Marc Anthony or Marcus Antonius in place of "Antony"; accept Cleopatra VII Philopator in place of "Cleopatra"]):
    Two answers required. These two characters title the most recent opera by Adams and were performed by Gerard Finley and Amina Edris to open the San Francisco Opera's 100th season. Samuel Barber was commissioned to compose an opera about these two characters for the opening of the new Metropolitan Opera House.
  Part 2 (ans:  Nixon in China):
    This first opera by Adams begins with the arrival of a plane carrying the title president, whose wife receives a small glass elephant and sings the aria "This is prophetic" in the Summer Palace.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Sellars):
    Adams has frequently collaborated with this theater director, who wrote the libretti for Doctor Atomic and Girls of the Golden West. This man also directed a production of The Marriage of Figaro set at Trump Tower.

[B7] 2021 Spring Novice (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about real-life historical figures represented in operas, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Leon Klinghoffer [accept The Death of Klinghoffer]):
    An opera that begins with the "Chorus of Exiled Palestinians" and concerns the 1985 hijacking of the Achille Lauro ("ah-KEE-lay LAO-roh") cruise ship is titled for "The Death of" this wheelchair-bound Jewish-American.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard (Milhous) Nixon [accept Nixon in China]):
    Before writing The Death of Klinghoffer, American composer John Adams wrote an opera about this American President's 1972 diplomatic trip to China.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Glass):
    Collaborating with Robert Wilson, this American minimalist composer considered Charlie Chaplin or Adolf Hitler for a historical opera before settling on a scientist and creating Einstein on the Beach.

[B8] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the career of the soprano Dawn Upshaw:
  Part 1 (ans: Henryk Gorecki ("GOH-ret-skee")):
    Upshaw featured as a soloist on a recording of this Polish composer's Symphony of Sorrowful Songs, which unexpectedly went platinum a full fifteen years after the piece's premiere.
  Part 2 (ans: John Adams ("This is Prophetic" is from Nixon in China.)):
    Upshaw sang the soprano part at the premiere of this composer's "nativity oratorio" El Nino. Upshaw's album The World Is So Wide includes her singing this composer's aria "This Is Prophetic."
  Part 3 (ans: Narrow Sea):
    Upshaw adjusted the pitches of ceramic bowls by adding and removing water at the premiere of this 2017 piece by Caroline Shaw. Composed for New York's So Percussion, this Shaw piece adapts four hymns about the River Jordan from the collection The Sacred Harp.

[B9] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A song on an album titled for one of these places features the line "And I will do anything for love," repeatedly sung in a melody eerily identical to that of the Meat Loaf song. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: airports [Hot in the Airport and Music for Airports]):
    Identify this type of place which titles the only album by outsider musician Y. Bhekhirst. An album intended for a sound installation in one of these places, which phases four tape loops of differing lengths to create tracks titled "1/1," "2/1," "1/2," and "2/2," is the first in the Ambient series.
  Part 2 (ans: Brian Eno [or Brian Peter George St John le Baptiste de la Salle Eno]):
    This composer pioneered the genre of unobtrusive ambient music with his album Music for Airports. He collaborated with David Bowie on his Berlin trilogy and produced several albums by U2 and the Talking Heads.
  Part 3 (ans: Nixon in China):
    In the opening scene of this opera, the baritone title character sings "News has a kind of mystery" after arriving at an airport and shaking hands with Chou En-lai.

[B10] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The protagonist of this work flees a dungeon to a coconut-palm forest, but is pursued by the Tyrant, who then whips her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Red Detachment of Women):
    Name this ballet about the poor peasant Wu Qinghua, who is eventually given shelter by the title group of people. At the end of this ballet, the Tyrant's granaries are opened for public use.
  Part 2 (ans: Nixon in China):
    A performance of The Red Detachment of Women takes place in Act 2 of this opera, which contains arias such as "This is prophetic" and "Mr. Premier, distinguished guests, I have attended many feasts..."
  Part 3 (ans: John Adams [or John Coolidge Adams]):
    Nixon in China was composed by this American. Justin Davidson wrote a defense of this man's opera The Death of Klinghoffer, denying that it was anti-Semitic.

[B11] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera sees soldiers sing "Soldiers of Heaven Hold the Sky" and the author of "The Red Detachment of Women" sing "I am the wife of Mao Tse-tung." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nixon in China):
    Name this opera which ends with Chou asking "How much of what we did was good?"
  Part 2 (ans: John (Coolidge) Adams):
    Nixon in China was written by this American composer, who also wrote the operas The Death of Klinghoffer and Doctor Atomic.
  Part 3 (ans: Alice Goodman):
    This woman wrote the librettos to Nixon in China and The Death of Klinghoffer.

[B12] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer these questions about American operas.
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Barber):
    This composer was commissioned to write Antony and Cleopatra for the opening of the Metropolitan Opera in 1966. He is better known for an Adagio for Strings.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Previn):
    This composer, better known for his film music and work as a conductor, has written the operas A streetcar Named Desire and Brief Encounter.
  Part 3 (ans: Nixon in China):
    This American opera includes the orchestral intermezzo The chairman dances and recounts an historical event from 1972.
