=== STOCK CLUES: Sor Juana ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 47 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 57 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Answer: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]
  - This philosopher's use of imagination to create "epistemic friction" is discussed in Jose Medina's The Epistemology of Resistance, which calls this author an "epistemic hero." This philosopher argued that divine love demands human correspondence and defended Augustine, Aquinas, and John Chrysostom in the Scholastic-style Letter Worthy of Athena.
  - This philosopher quipped that Aristotle would have written much more had he spent more time cooking in a letter that later thanks learned forebears like Aspasia and St. [PWR]
  - (*) Gertrude.
  - A soul is liberated from the body by Night and embarks on a quest to understand Creation in a poem by this author that ends, "the world illuminated, and I awake." This author of the satire You Foolish Men is the subject of the intellectual biography The Traps of Faith.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Reply to Sister Filotea and First Dream, a nun from New Spain. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Spanish [or Espanol] (the unnamed play in the first line is Pedro Calderon's The Great Theater of the World. The play in the second line is Loa to Divine Narcissus and was written by Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz.)
  - In a play written in this language, characters emerge from globes while dressed in the costumes their stage manager, World, provided them with. [PWR]
  - In another short play written in this language, Zeal complains that a group of characters disrespect his wife Religion because they exalt "The God of Seeds." Short plays in this language performed during Corpus Christi are given a name meaning "sacramental acts," and define the religious type of (*) loas that preceded longer plays written in this language. [PWR]
  - In a play written in this language, a cross-dressing woman presents a sword so that a warden recognizes her as his child, and she later frees a Prince of Poland from a tower.
  - For 10 points, name this language used to write Life is a Dream and other plays during its 17th-century Golden Age. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]
  - This poet wrote, "You may mock the hapless plight / or the creatures of your use" in a poem that describes figures "perverse, schooled to condemn... by witless laws." The line "'Tis dead, 'tis dust, 'tis shadow, yea, 'tis nought" concludes this poet's "To Her Portrait." In one poem, this poet discussed a figure "roused by her own precipitous fall" who "crowns herself with the globe's abandoned half" before noting, "the (*) world illuminated, / and I awake." This poet of "Arraignment of the Men" discussed the "pyramidal death-born shadow of earth" in a silva analyzed in Octavio Paz's The Traps of Faith. [PWR]
  - This poet condemned the Church for keeping women uneducated following criticism from the Bishop of Puebla in her "Reply to Sister Philotea." For 10 points, name this author of First Dream, a 17th-century Mexican nun. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Nahuatl [accept Aztec or Mexicano] (Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz used shoddy Nahuatl in her villancicos.)
  - A poet in this language complains "I suffer on Earth" and "I am a hawk" in a "Song of Spring" composed for a banquet celebrating a new palace.
  - A likely mistranslated prose lament in this language is the source of the line "Broken spears lie in the road / We have torn our hair in grief." A volume of riddles is one of the many sources in this language collected in James Lockhart's We People Here. [PWR]
  - A poet learned just enough of this non-African language to make horrible errors with it in several of her (*) villancicos . [PWR]
  - The two surviving compilations of this language's poetry include "The Ballads of the Lords." This language of the poet-king "Hungry Coyote" referred to poetry as "flowers and songs." For 10 points, name this indigenous language found in the Codex Borgia, which preserves stories about gods like Tezcatlipoca. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]
  - A book by a [emphasize] different author contains a chapter explaining why this author imagined Neptune as descending from Isis. [PWR]
  - A poem by this author asks the title group "Why be outraged at the guilt / that is of your own doing?" The last stanza of a poem by this author describes how the "golden Sun / adorned our Hemisphere / with skeins of judicious light." That poem by this author begins by describing a "Pyramidal / death-born shadow of earth / aimed at heaven" and ends by stating "the world illuminated, / and I awake." This author of (*) "You Foolish Men" is the subject of Octavio Paz's The Traps of Faith. [PWR]
  - This author defended women's right to education in her Reply to Sister Filotea.
  - For 10 points, name this author of First Dream, a Mexican nun who wrote during the seventeenth century. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Mexico [or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; do not accept or prompt on "Estados Unidos"] (The unnamed authors are Elena Poniatowska, who wrote The night of Tlatelolco, and Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz.)
  - An author who worked in this country was dubbed "the red princess" and recorded chants like "DIA-LOGUE DIA-LOGUE DIA-LOGUE" in a piece titled for "The Night of" an area in its capital.
  - A 17th-century writer from this country argued that the intellect has no gender and defended feminine pursuits in a "Reply" to another nun.
  - An author from this country, who wrote about a certain subculture "and Other Extremes" in the first essay in a collection, wrote about an earlier author from here in the critical biography The Traps of Faith.
  - An author from this country remarked that "Man is the only being who knows he is alone" in a book that discusses "The Sons of La Malinche." For 10 points, The Labyrinth of Solitude by Octavio Paz describes what country's Day of the Dead celebrations? [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: sonnets [the first poem is by Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz]
  - A poem of this type describes the "bright-colored deceit" of a portrait depicting the author.
  - The speaker claims "I don't love you as if you were salt-rose, or topaz, or the arrow of carnations the fire shoots off" in a poem in this form dedicated to Matilde Urrutia.
  - After winning the 1914 Juegos Florales contest for a collection of these poems, its author adopted the surname of an (*) Occitan poet.
  - A collection of one hundred love poems of this type was written by Pablo Neruda.
  - A collection of these poems contains the line "I will lower you down to the humble, sunny earth" and was written after the suicide of the poet's lover Romelio Ureta.
  - Gabriela Mistral wrote a collection titled for these poems "of Death." For 10 points, name these poems that are fourteen lines long. [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]
  - This author's reading of Pietro Cerone and Athanasius Kircher inspired a now-lost music theory treatise titled for the "snail"-like spiral of justly-tuned fifths.
  - This author's design for a triumphal arch is described in the Allegorical Neptune.
  - A letter by this author muses that "if Aristotle had cooked, he would have written a great deal more." A long poem by this author ends by describing how the sun "with just light and distributive order, gave all things visible their colors...the world illuminated with more certain light." That poem by this author begins by describing a (*) shadow that is "pyramidal, funereal." This author defended the possibility of learning through "feminine" activities in an essay that arguing that intellects have no gender since they all originate from the Divine.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the Reply to Sister Filotea and the long poem "First Dream," a nun from colonial Mexico. [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Mexico [the portrait is Miguel Cabrera's Portrait of Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz]
  - In the 17th century, a Japanese embassy introduced folding screen painting to this country, where it was called biombo after the word "byobu." The "weapons" of Christ, such as a ladder, a nail, and a skull, decorate the shaft of the Atrial Cross from this country. [PWR]
  - An artist from this country who signed his paintings "Michelangelo" did a portrait of a woman with a large badge depicting the Annunciation around her neck sitting in front of a library shelf. [PWR]
  - Benedict XVI and a princess gaze up at a woman wearing a star-adorned blue cloak surrounded by a mandorla of light in a devotional image from this country. [PWR]
  - In this modern-day country, sets of sixteen images of parents with their children labeled with their (*) ethnicities made up paintings in the casta genre. [PWR]
  - Artists from this country illustrated a book compiled by friar Bernardino de Sahagun, the Florentine Codex.
  - For 10 points, name this country whose colonial art often depicted Our Lady of Guadalupe. [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz (or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana)
  - This woman claimed that she had refused to eat cheese as a child, because she had heard that cheese made people stupid, and her "desire to learn was stronger...than the desire to eat." A 1990 film about this woman is titled I, the Worst of All, in reference to a document that this woman signed with her own blood. [PWR]
  - She described the "secrets of nature" that she had learned from cooking in a letter written to (*) "Filotea," a pseudonym used by Manuel Fernandez de Santa Cruz.
  - A posthumous portrait of this woman shows her wearing a large oval painting of the Annunciation under her chin.
  - This poet and polymath known as the "Tenth Muse" first attained celebrity as a child prodigy at the viceregal court of New Spain.
  - Octavio Paz wrote a biography of, for 10 points, what 17th-century Mexican nun? [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sor Juana [or Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; or Juana de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]
  - In one of this author's poems, the speaker addresses "perverse males" who "with hot breath fogs the glass,\then laments it is not bright!" This author of "Arraignment of the Men" and "Pawns of a House" wrote "Pyramidal, funereal and Earthen\Born like shadow and aimed in vain\Like the raised point of an obelisk\Set towards the sky" to begin "First Dream." She proclaims "by studying I may become less ignorant" in a response to the Bishop of (*) Puebla.
  - In that work, "Letter to Sister Philotea," she justifies her decision to join a Carmelite convent at the age of fifteen." An Octavio Paz's The Traps of Faith gives a biographical account of this author.
  - For 10 points, name this Mexican poet, feminist, and Hieronymite nun whose many sonnets earned her the epithet the "Tenth Muse" of Mexico. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This work quotes extensively from St. Jerome's letter To Leta, on the Education of her Daughter in a section discussing Arce's Studioso Bibliorum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Respuesta a Sor Filotea de la Cruz [or Response to Sister Filotea de la Cruz; or Reply to Sister Filotea de la Cruz; or Response to Sor Filotea de la Cruz; or Reply to Sor Filotea de la Cruz; prompt on La Respuesta]):
    Name this work, written in response to a bishop who had published a letter by its author using the title pseudonym.
  Part 2 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]):
    The controversy over the "Letter of Athena" and Response to Sister Filotea led this Mexican poet and nun to likely stop writing in 1693.
  Part 3 (ans: Giannina Braschi):
    When asked for two living women poets, a character in this author's Spanglish novel Yo-Yo Boing! names Sor Juana and Emily Dickinson. This Puerto Rican author also wrote United States of Banana and Empire of Dreams.

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In his biography of its author, Octavio Paz wrote that this poem was about "the vertigo of being on the edge of the infinite." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: First Dream [or Primero sueno; accept First I Dream; accept The Dream or El sueno or Sor Juana's Dream]):
    Name this long poem in silva form, in which the poet's soul travels through levels representing different forms of knowledge. It opens with the image of a "pyramid-shaped, dark dismal shadow" pointing to Heaven.
  Part 2 (ans: Aristotle [or Aristoteles] (The levels of knowledge are often analogized to Aristotle's ten categories.)):
    Critics link the forms of knowledge in Sor Juana's First Dream to a grouping made by this author. In her Reply to Sister Filotea, Sor Juana praised the insights of women by quipping "if [this author] had cooked, he would have written much more."
  Part 3 (ans: the sun [or sol; accept "Sunstone" or "Piedra de sol"]):
    The poem ends by describing this object "summoning me awake." A stone named for this object titles an Octavio Paz poem structured around the Aztec calendar.

[B3] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Alonso de Ercilla wrote a 37-canto poem in ottava rima about the conquest of this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Chile [or the General Captaincy of Chile; or Kingdom of Chile]):
    Name this country whose poem La Auracana was one of the first poems written in the colonial Americas. This country's colonial power structures were recounted in Isabel Allende's novel The House of the Spirits.
  Part 2 (ans: sonnet [or Petrarchan sonnet; or Sonnets of Death]):
    The first colonial poet born in the Americas, Leonor de Ovando, wrote five poems in this form responding to the works of jurist Eugenio de Salazar. A poem in this form states, "I lower your body to the sunny, poor earth."
  Part 3 (ans: The Traps of Faith [or Sor Juana: Or, the Traps of Faith]):
    The life of Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz, perhaps the best-known poet of the colonial Americans, was recounted in a biography with this subtitle by the author of Eagle or Sun? which focuses on her literary output.

[B4] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A comedy by this author concludes with a choreographed sarao in which the inhabitants of four nations engage in a chorus about their respective cultures. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [accept either underlined portion; or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana; or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]):
    Name this author, whose introduction to the play Love is the Greater Labyrinth, a retelling of Theseus and the Minotaur, was inspired by Athanasius Kircher's music theory. Octavio Paz analyzed this author's turn to asceticism in a book subtitled The Traps of Faith.
  Part 2 (ans: nun [or sister; prompt on clergy]):
    In Sor Juana's play Pawns of a House, the lead Leonor resolves to become a member of this profession rather than marry Pedro. Sor Juana and the addressee of her "reply," Filotea, were also members of this profession.
  Part 3 (ans: Juan Ruiz de Alarcon):
    This other playwright from New Spain wrote The Nun Lieutenant based on the life of Catalina de Erauso. Don Garcia mistakes his love Lucrecia for another woman in this playwright's comedy The Suspicious Truth.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this modern-day country, a form of religious theater whose name translates as "sacramental play" was performed on two-story wagons during Corpus Christi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spain [or Kingdom of Spain; or Reino de Espana; accept Spanish Golden Age]):
    Name this European country where plays emphasizing the power of the Catholic Church were prevalent during its 16th- and 17th-century "Golden Age."
  Part 2 (ans: loas [accept Loa to Divine Narcissus, Loa to the Divine Narcissus, Loa to the Auto Sacramental of Divine Narcissus, or Loa para el divino narciso] (The author was Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz.)):
    Autos sacramentales during the Spanish Golden Age were preceded by these brief prologues. A Latin American author wrote an allegory in this form in which Religion spares two Aztecs named America and Occident during the Spanish conquest of Mexico.
  Part 3 (ans: Tirso de Molina [or Gabriel Tellez; prompt on de Molina]):
    This Golden Age dramatist and Catholic monk wrote more than 80 plays, but is now best known for originating the story of Don Juan in The Trickster of Seville and the Stone Guest.

[B6] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Helen Edmundson's 2012 play The Heresy of Love is based on the life of this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana [or Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana; prompt on de la Cruz or de Asbaje or de Santillana] (Octavio Paz wrote The Traps of Faith.)):
    Name this author who defended women's rights to education in a letter that is discussed in the book The Traps of Faith.
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or Mejico; or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos; reject "Estados Unidos"]):
    Sor Juana wrote her Reply to Sister Filotea while serving as a nun in this modern-day country. Her play The Divine Narcissus links Christ's crucifixion to the human sacrifices performed by this country's native Aztecs.
  Part 3 (ans: cooking [or making food; accept making drinks or making hot chocolate; accept baking or culinary work or being a chef or similar] (The novel is Like Water for Chocolate.)):
    The Reply to Sister Filotea claims that if Aristotle had done this activity, he would have written much more. Tita de la Garza expresses herself through this activity in a 1989 Laura Esquivel novel, whose title references this activity.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author who originally held this non-writer profession wrote an autobiography describing their soldiering in Spanish Peru, called The Lieutenant [this profession]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: nun [accept The Lieutenant Nun or The Ensign Nun or La Monja Alferez; prompt on monastics; prompt on sisters or sor]):
    Name this early profession of Catalina de Erauso. A Jean Stafford short story was inspired by a description of a "most beautiful crystal globe, made in the shape of a castle," written by another author with this profession.
  Part 2 (ans: Teresa of Avila [or Saint Teresa of Jesus; or Teresa Sanchez de Cepeda y Ahumada; accept the Ecstasy of Saint Teresa]):
    This author of The Way of Perfection wrote about the soul's movement through seven mansions in The Interior Castle. This Spanish nun from Avila described a seraph with a "long spear of gold," inspiring a Bernini sculpture.
  Part 3 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; or Sister Juana; or Juana de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]):
    This nun wrote about the soul trying and failing to comprehend a vision of all creation in First Dream. This author of I, the Worst of All Women defended female education in Reply to Sister Filotea.

[B8] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet began an epic poem with "'It's a beautiful country,' / Toscanelli had told Columbus." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ernesto Cardenal (Martinez)):
    Name this Nicaraguan poet who wrote about Central American history in The Doubtful Straight and Zero Hour. This Catholic priest founded a primitivist commune of peasants and artists on the Solentiname Islands.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz (Lozano)):
    In his essay "Here People Talk to God," this author recalls growing up at a Catholic grammar school and looking at photos of Mexican churches. This author wrote the essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: Sor Juana (Ines de la Cruz)):
    This Mexican nun wrote about the spread of Catholicism in the Americas in Loa to Divine Narcissus. This subject of Paz's The Traps of Faith wrote of a "Pyramidal / death-born shadow of earth."

[B9] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A cyclical poem by this author describes a river as "a willow of crystal; a poplar of water" in both its beginning and end. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    Name this author of "Sunstone" who described the development of post-colonial Mexican culture in his essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 2 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]):
    Octavio Paz wrote a biography of this early Mexican feminist titled The Traps of Faith. This poet and nun sarcastically referred to herself as "the worst of all women" while defending women's education in her Reply to Sister Filotea.
  Part 3 (ans: "First Dream" [or "Primero sueno"]):
    Sor Juana wrote about a "pyramidal death-born shadow of Earth" in this gigantic poem. It ends with the sun "dispensing their colors to visible things" and "keeping... the World illuminated" so that she can "awake."

[B10] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An essay partly titled for this concept claims that "all human life is pervaded by" a dialectic that treats this concept as "both a sentence and an expiation." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: solitude [or word forms like solitary; accept "The Dialectic of Solitude" or The Labyrinth of Solitude or El laberinto de la soledad; prompt on synonyms like loneliness or isolation or remoteness]):
    Name this concept. An earlier essay in the same collection compares a nation's first realization of its history to an adolescent being forced to confront this concept by staring into the "river of his consciousness."
  Part 2 (ans: Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]):
    An essay in Octavio Paz's The Labyrinth of Solitude claims that this country's love of festivals stems from an attempt to "leap over the wall of solitude that confines" its people. Paz himself was from this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana; prompt on Ines; prompt on de la Cruz]):
    In an essay that praises this author, Paz notes that her "double solitude" as both a woman and an intellectual elevates her Reply to Sister Filotea. Paz's book The Traps of Faith analyzes this poet of "First Dream."

[B11] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a short story titled for a "lesson" on this action suffers from a sunburn after her husband lies on top of her at the beach, and compares herself to "Cuauhtemoc under torture on the rack." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cooking [accept descriptions which involve preparing food]):
    Name this activity taught by Nacha to Tita de la Garza, who is the protagonist of a novel comprised of twelve sections that each begin with instructions on how to do this activity.
  Part 2 (ans: Sor Juana [or Juana Ines de la Cruz]):
    Rosario Castellanos, the author of "Cooking Lesson," wrote "it is not a solution to" "deduce geometrical laws by counting / the beams of one's solitary confinement cell," an allusion to this author of Reply to Sister Filotea.
  Part 3 (ans: Mexico [or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]):
    Later in the book, Tita's sister Gertrudis becomes a general in a revolution against this country's president Porfirio Diaz after consuming a dish of quail in rose petals.

[B12] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A writer from this country wrote "prepare the earthly sheets for me" in the poem "I Am Going to Sleep" before committing suicide by walking into the sea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]):
    Name this home country of the author of "Little Man" and "You Want Me White," Alfonsina Storni. This country was also the home of the ultramodernist poet Norah Lange and the feminist writer Victoria Ocampo.
  Part 2 (ans: literary magazines [prompt on periodicals or journals]):
    Norah Lange contributed to publications of this type named Proa and Martin Fierro, and Victoria Ocampo founded one of these publications named Sur. Examples of these publications include The New Yorker and The Atlantic.
  Part 3 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz; accept Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana]):
    In 2019, Argentine writer Maria Gainza ("gah-EEN-zah") won a prize named for this woman that recognizes Spanish language books by female authors. This Mexican nun authored a reply to Sister Filotea and wrote the poem "First Dream."

[B13] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker mocks these people because they "mist a mirror" and then complain "that it's not clear." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: men [or hombres; or "Foolish Men"; "You Foolish Men"; or "Hombres necios"]):
    Name these "foolish" subjects of a seventeenth-century redondilla. In its final stanza, the speaker claims that these people's "arrogance" fights "with many weapons" because in "promise and insistence" they combine "world, flesh, and devil."
  Part 2 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [or Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez]):
    This nun wrote poems like "Foolish Men" and "First Dream" under the protection of Tomas de la Cerda, the Viceroy of New Spain. However, Archbishop Aguiar y Seijas eventually forced her to sell her books and scientific instruments and cease writing poetry.
  Part 3 (ans: autos sacramentales):
    At the request of Maria Luisa, the Viceroy's wife, Sor Juana wrote The Divine Narcissus, one of these allegorical plays. Pedro Calderon was renowned for writing these one-act Spanish plays, which were typically performed on the feast of Corpus Christi.

[B14] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this author's work The Dream, the narrator's body falls asleep and her soul ascends to contemplate all existence, starting with a fountain and a flower. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [accept either underlined portion; accept Juana Ines de Asbaje y Ramirez de Santillana; prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this Mexican nun and writer who defended women's right to education in Reply to Sister Philotea and wrote "I, the worst of all women."
  Part 2 (ans: labyrinth [accept Love is More a Labyrinth or The Labyrinth of Solitude]):
    Sor Juana titled a work with the phrase "Love is More" [one of these things]. Another work titled after one of these things includes sections like "Mexican Mask" and "The Sons of La Malinche."
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    The Labyrinth of Solitude is by this other Mexican writer of Sunstone, who wrote a biography of Sor Juana in The Traps of Faith.

[B15] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes the author's soul rising from her sleeping body and travelling through space before it finally reaches the pyramids of Egypt. For 10 points,
  Part 1 (ans: "First Dream" [or "Primero sueno"]):
    Name this poem.The book The Traps of Faith analyzes this poem as an allegory for its author's desire for knowledge.
  Part 2 (ans: Sor Juana [or Juana Ines de la Cruz]):
    This author of "First Dream" became a hit at the Viceroy of Mexico's court as a child prodigy, but abruptly left to become a nun. She wrote the "Reply to Sor Filotea" as a defense of intellectual freedom when the Church tried to suppress her nonreligious writing.
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz ):
    The literary biography Sor Juana, Or, the Traps of Faith was written by this critic who also discussed Sor Juana's place in Mexican identity in The Labyrinth of Solitude. His own poetry includes the Aztec-inspired "Sunstone."

[B16] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about literature of the Spanish colonial Empire:
  Part 1 (ans: The Araucaniad [or La Araucana]):
    This epic poem about the Spanish conquest of Chile was written by Alonso de Ercilla. Its sources include Orlando Furioso and Gerusalemme Liberata.
  Part 2 (ans: Bartolome de las Casas):
    This Dominican friar and social reformer became the first resident Bishop of Chiapas. His A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies chronicles the first decades of conquest of the West Indies and focuses on the atrocities committed by the colonisers against the indigenous peoples.
  Part 3 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [prompt on de la Cruz]):
    This Hieronymite nun of New Spain, known in her lifetime as The Tenth Muse and the American Phoenix, is known for the long philosophical poem The Dream. Condemned by the Bishop of Puebla, she was forced to sell her collection of books and focus on charity towards the poor.

[B17] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Alan Trueblood's translation, this poet's 145th sonnet is helpfully titled "She Disavows the Flattery Visible in a Portrait of Herself, Which She Calls Bias." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz [prompt on Ines; prompt on de la Cruz]):
    Name this 17th-century Mexican nun, a poet who championed women's right to education in a letter to Sister Filotea.
  Part 2 (ans: the Muses [or "musa decima"]):
    Contemporaries of Sor Juana called her "The Phoenix of Mexico," as well as the tenth one of these people. Many epic poems begin by invoking these Greek goddesses of the arts.
  Part 3 (ans: Uruguay):
    A later female Latin American poet named Juana, Juana de Ibarbourou, was from this country. Jules Laforgue and the Count de Lautreamont were among the French symbolist poets born in this country.

[B18] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A lost musical treatise by her compares music to a conch shell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz):
    Name this author who argued that women inherently have a right to education in her Reply to Sister Dorotea.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    This author produced a "hermetic biography" of Sor Juana in his book The Traps of Faith. He wrote an essay collection which includes "The Day of the Dead," an analysis of his countrymen's fascination with death.
  Part 3 (ans: Sunstone or Piedra de Sol):
    A "willow of crystal" is the first image in this poem by Octavio Paz, whose number of lines are correlated with the number of days on the Aztec Calendar.

[B19] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet called the title object a "vain artifice" in "To Her Portrait." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz):
    Name this poet who defended the education of women in a letter responding to Filotea and also wrote the philosophical poem "First Dream."
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    This later Mexican author wrote The Traps of Faith, a biography of Sor Juana. This man also discussed Mexican culture in The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: "Sun Stone" [or "Piedra de Sol"]):
    This long poem by Paz about the meaning of life is meant to mirror the 584-day synodic cycle of the planet Venus due to Aztec reverence for the morning and evening star.
