=== STOCK CLUES: Jacob Lawrence ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jacob Lawrence
  - This artist depicted men in horizontal profile stacked in bunks in Shipping out to Victory, the first of a War Series heavy on brown and black tempera.
  - Historical quotations like "is life so dear or peace so sweet..." title entries in another series by this artist, which is currently touring in the "American Struggle" exhibition.
  - This artist's wife, Gwendolyn Knight, edited his often-didactic titles.
  - Colorful New York tenements inspired the style of this "Dynamic Cubist," who created silkscreen prints on the Legend of John Brown.
  - This artist depicted three girls in red, yellow, and blue at a blackboard and included a blue and brown lattice above a crowd of people funneling into doors for "St.
  - Louis," "Chicago," and "New York." For 10 points, name this Harlem Renaissance artist of the Migration series. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jacob Lawrence
  - For one series, this artist prevented color variation in his homemade casein  tempera by painting all the panels in parallel one color at a time. [PWR]
  - Because of this artist's renown, he and his wife Gwendolyn Knight were not included in the Spiral Group.
  - Mexican muralism influenced the "dynamic cubism" of a series by this artist with even and odd number panels split by the MoMA and the Phillips Collection.
  - A zigzagging golden rope divides the two sections of a flat, beige canvas depicting a (*) restaurant in a painting by this artist. [PWR]
  - A series by this artist depicts three girls writing the numbers "2, 3, 4" on an otherwise empty chalkboard.
  - He used long captions for a series that depicts a crowd of silhouettes filing through doors labeled "Chicago," "New York," and "St.
  - Louis." For 10 points, name this African-American painter of the Migration Series. [GIVE]

[T3] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jacob Lawrence
  - This artist painted a self-portrait depicting himself in his studio scratching his chin with one hand, clutching a handful of paintbrushes with the other, and flashing a gap-toothed smile while his own paintings Tombstones and Cabinet Makers hang in the background.
  - A painting by this artist shows three girls wearing red, yellow, and blue dresses and holding up the numbers "two," "three," and "four." A single bent lamp illuminates the unseen papers of a cartoonish, goggle-eyed judge hunching over the bench in front of two silhouettes in panel 14 of a series by this painter.
  - Panel 5 of that series by this artist shows the bell of the night train, and panel 3 shows a group slinging sacks over their shoulders as six crows fly overhead.
  - This practitioner of "dynamic cubism" painted a series of 60 panels whose first entry shows a crowd of featureless people rushing towards three gates labeled "St.
  - Louis," "Chicago," and "New York." For 10 points, name this African-American painter of the Migration series. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these people stands behind a large wooden "V" into which a man is hammering a wedge in a painting by Horace Pippin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Klansmen [accept members of the KKK or Ku Klux Klan or the Klan] (The Pippin painting is Mr. Prejudice, and the artist is Philip Guston.)):
    What sort of person is depicted as geometric forms over a black background in Norman Lewis's American Totem? Another artist often painted cartoonish depictions of these people holding cigars against pink backgrounds.
  Part 2 (ans: Abraham Lincoln):
    Pippin variously painted this president pardoning a sentry, building a cabin, and as a Good Samaritan. Pippin made a portrait of Marian Anderson after her concert in front of Daniel Chester French's sculpture of this president.
  Part 3 (ans: Jacob Lawrence [or Jacob Armstead Lawrence] (The series is his Migration Series.)):
    Pippin's John Brown Going to His Hanging inspired this artist's series The Legend of John Brown. People enter doors marked for various cities in the first entry of a 60-painting series that this artist made for the WPA.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the center of a mural, this man stands with his arms outstretched while a tornado and prairie fire approach from either side. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Brown (The Legend of John Brown is by Jacob Lawrence.)):
    Name this man, who is depicted in that work with his eyes and mouth wide open and his long beard blowing in the wind. Another artist used gouache ("gwash") and tempera for a series titled for The Legend of this man.
  Part 2 (ans: American Regionalism [or American Regionalist]):
    John Steuart Curry, artist of the mural Tragic Prelude, was one of the "Triumvirate" of this artistic movement, along with Thomas Hart Benton and Grant Wood.
  Part 3 (ans: Toussaint Louverture [or Francois-Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture; or Toussaint Breda]):
    In addition to his series on John Brown, Jacob Lawrence painted a series on "The Life of" this man. Lawrence's original series of 41 paintings of this man, including a portrait in elaborate red and gold military costume, was one of his earliest major works.

[B3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This event inspired an artwork which used oxidized paper and caulk to draw out railroad timetables and that was featured at a 2023 exhibition by Hauser & Wirth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Great Migration [prompt on migration] (The second clue refers to the first painting in Jacob Lawrence's Migration series.)):
    Name this event that inspired the piece You Don't Have to Tell Me Twice. People wearing black and green coats rush into doorways in an artwork in the style of "dynamic cubism" inspired by this event.
  Part 2 (ans: Mark Bradford (The piece in the second sentence is Bradford's Pickett's Charge.)):
    This creator of You Don't Have to Tell Me Twice painted over 60 panels containing ads for Black families to settle in Blackdom, New Mexico in another artwork inspired by the Great Migration. This artist used Paul Philippoteaux's cyclorama of a battle as the basis of a 400-foot long artwork in the Hirshhorn Museum.
  Part 3 (ans: collage):
    Bradford's Pickett's Charge was created using this technique of assembling different materials on a canvas.

[B4] 2023 Black History Month Packet (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Men carry beams of wood and plywood panels in The Builders, a painting by this artist displayed in the White House. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    Name this artist who used black and white to depict a scene of segregation from the sidewalk outside the Dixie Belle Cafe. His Murano glass mural New York in Transit is located in the Times Square subway station.
  Part 2 (ans: the Great Migration [accept Migration Series or The Migration of the Negro]):
    A 60-panel series by Lawrence depicts this historical event, with the first panel showing black men filtering through gates labeled "New York," "Chicago," and "St. Louis."
  Part 3 (ans: cubism (Note: the second clue refers to Georges Braque)):
    Lawrence referred to his work as the "dynamic [type of this style]." An earlier artist in this style created multiple abstract works depicting violins paired with objects like candlesticks and palettes.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Phillips Collection located in this city shares half of the works in a 60-panel series with MoMA. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Washington, D.C. [accept D.C. or Washington, D.C.; accept Washington Color School] (Yet Do I Marvel (Countee Cullen) is displayed at the National Museum of African-American History.)):
    Name this city where Sam Gilliam's five-panel Yet Do I Marvel (Countee Cullen) is displayed in a new museum designed by Freelon Adjaye Bond. Lou Stovall founded the printmaking company Workshop, Inc. in this city for artists in its "Color School."
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence [or Jacob Armstead Lawrence] (The painting is from the Migration Series.)):
    This artist painted a 60-panel series by applying unmixed casein ("KAY-seen") tempera one color at a time, one entry of which depicts a large crowd passing through gates reading "Chicago," "New York," and "St. Louis."
  Part 3 (ans: abstract expressionism [or Ab Ex; prompt on action painting by asking "what larger movement was that part of?"; reject "abstract" or "expressionism"]):
    The Washington Color School was an offshoot of this broader art movement whose American adherents included Robert Motherwell and Jackson Pollock.

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about painters involved with the Negritude movement's arts journal Black Orpheus, which was produced by the Mbari Club.
  Part 1 (ans: Skunder Boghossian [or Alexander Boghossian]):
    This Ethiopian-Armenian painter drew from Ge'ez ("guh-EZ") manuscripts, debtera talismans, and his own engagement with Santeria practice to produce a number of astounding abstract works, some of them published in Black Orpheus.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence [or Jacob Armstead Lawrence]):
    This African-American painter traveled to Nigeria, where he spent time with members of the Mbari Club and produced a number of works. He painted a WPA-funded series depicting the Great Migration.
  Part 3 (ans: Wifredo Lam [or Wifredo Oscar de la Concepcion Lam y Castilla]):
    This Chinese-Afro-Cuban painter, who shared both Boghossian's avowed inspiration from Santeria and his engagement with the Negritude movement, is known for cubist masterworks like The Jungle.

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting, this man is shown kissing a stranger's baby as he descends a staircase. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Brown [or The Last Moments of John Brown; or Legend of John Brown]):
    Name this man whose Last Moments were painted by Thomas Hovenden. A twenty-two-panel series showing the Legend of this man was created for the Detroit Institute of Arts in 1941.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    The Legend of John Brown was created by this Black painter. People file through doors labeled "New York" and "Chicago" in the first panel of a series by this painter which also contains a scene of a segregated dining room.
  Part 3 (ans: Sistine Chapel):
    John Steuart Curry's depiction of Brown brandishing a bible and a rifle in the mural Tragic Prelude was inspired by the figure of God creating the Sun on this location's ceiling. Michelangelo painted The Creation of Adam for this Vatican building.

[B8] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: 50 years after painting his best-known series, this artist massively shortened their captions, such as for an entry in which three girls write the numbers '2', '3', and '4' on a blackboard. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    Name this painter, who depicted the results of African-Americans moving northwards in that 60-painting series, titled Migration.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City [accept Harlem]):
    The first painting in the Migration series shows people moving to Chicago, St Louis, and this city. The Spiral Group was based in a neighborhood of this major city that underwent a 1920s 'Renaissance'.
  Part 3 (ans: Knight [Gwendolen and Laura, respectively]):
    Lawrence's wife, a Barbadian artist of this surname, assisted him on the Migration series. A British female artist of this surname painted the Nuremberg trials and was the first woman fully elected to the Royal Academy.

[B9] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: During the 1930s and 1940s, many popular artists worked for the US government. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ellsworth Kelly):
    During World War II, this artist served in the Ghost Army, a unit of artists who used theatrical techniques and inflatable tanks to mislead Germany. He later became more famous for his hard-edged color-field paintings like Nine Squares and Spectrum Colors Arranged by Chance.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    The Federal Art Project funded this African-American artist, who depicted people moving between train stations in his Migration series and placed the title man between a cross and rifles in The Legend of John Brown.
  Part 3 (ans: regionalism [or regionalists]):
    The WPA funded many painters who eventually formed this art style, including Thomas Hart Benton. This movement typically focused on realistic scenes of small-town and rural America.

[B10] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting by this artist shows three girls at a chalkboard writing the numbers "2", "3", and "4", while a different painting of a restaurant is divided vertically into two sides by a yellow rope. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence [all the paintings are from his Migration Series]):
    Name this artist, who depicted a group summiting a hill underneath a blue sky dotted with six birds in a series that begins with a crowd of silhouettes filing in through doors labeled "Chicago", "New York", and "St. Louis".
  Part 2 (ans: Migration):
    Jacob Lawrence is best known for this series, named for the fact that it depicts the mass movement of African-Americans from the South to the urban North. Its various panels were reunited by the MoMA for the exhibition One-Way Ticket.
  Part 3 (ans: Toussaint L'Ouverture [accept either]):
    Jacob Lawrence created a series about this man at age twenty, which is now held in the Amistad Research Center, before revisiting the subject for another series over forty years later. The original series comprised 41 tempera panels, but Lawrence reworked it down to 15, which he screenprinted with the help of Lou Stovall.

[B11] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One work by this shows a man raising his hands above his head while playing the saxophone, and another depicts the enduring nature of African-American song and dance. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Aaron Douglas):
    Name this artist of Song of the Towers and An Idyll of the Deep South, two works from his Aspects of Negro Life series.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    This other American artist touched on similar themes from African American culture in his massive, 60-panel Migration series.
  Part 3 (ans: Harlem [or Harlem Renaissance]):
    Aaron Douglas and Jacob Lawrence were both members of an artistic "Renaissance" titled for this New York neighborhood.

[B12] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series was meticulously planned out with the artist's wife Gwendolyn Knight, since its painter used the same hue on sixty different paintings at once to keep the colors consistent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Migration series):
    Name this painting series, which catapulted its artist to fame after a 1941 solo exposition at the Manhattan Downtown gallery.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    The Migration series is by this African-American artist, who also created a series depicting the legend of John Brown.
  Part 3 (ans: cubism):
    Lawrence referred to his style as a "dynamic" form of this art style, developed by Georges Braques and Pablo Picasso, which went through "analytic" and "synthetic" phases.

[B13] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one work by this man, a figure in red sits on a rock in front of a noose hanging from a long branch, while in another, a crowd of people file into entryways marked "Chicago," "New York," and "St. Louis." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    Name this artist of a series of paintings showing the process of African Americans re-situating themselves in the northern United States, entitled Migration.
  Part 2 (ans: Harlem Renaissance):
    Jacob Lawrence was a member of this black cultural movement named for a New York neighborhood. Other members included Romare Bearden and Aaron Douglas.
  Part 3 (ans: quilts [or story quilts; accept Patchwork Quilt; prompt on "blankets"]):
    After the Harlem Renaissance, Romare Bearden cut and pasted cloth and paper to show a woman lying on one of these objects. Harlem painter Faith Ringgold also told stories by creating these objects.

[B14] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man was married to the artist Gwendolyn Knight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    Name this African-American painter best known for his extensive Migration series.
  Part 2 (ans: Harlem):
    Jacob Lawrence, along with Charles Alston and Romare Bearden, were part of a cultural "Renaissance" based in this New York City neighborhood.
  Part 3 (ans: Aaron Douglas):
    This other Harlem Renaissance artist painted two men being grasped at by eerie green hands in Song of the Towers, one of the works in his series Aspects of Negro Life.

[B15] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title pioneer holds a musket and rides on a horse in a wintry landscape in one of the paintings from his series on George Washington Bush. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    Identify this African American artist who depicted a black child throwing a white doll on the ground in his 1942 painting, Tombstones.
  Part 2 (ans: Train stations [or Railway stations]):
    Lawrence's Migration series begins and ends with works set in one of these locations, with people bound for places like Chicago and St. Louis. Monet painted one of these places in The Gare St-Lazare.
  Part 3 (ans: New Jersey):
    Lawrence created a work where farmers pick tomatoes to the left of a lighthouse in this state in a series commissioned by the Containers Corporation of America. German immigrants arrive in this state in a Ben Shahn mural, and Winslow Homer showed women with parasols standing on sandy cliffs in this state.
