=== STOCK CLUES: Legend of John Brown ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the center of a mural, this man stands with his arms outstretched while a tornado and prairie fire approach from either side. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Brown (The Legend of John Brown is by Jacob Lawrence.)):
    Name this man, who is depicted in that work with his eyes and mouth wide open and his long beard blowing in the wind. Another artist used gouache ("gwash") and tempera for a series titled for The Legend of this man.
  Part 2 (ans: American Regionalism [or American Regionalist]):
    John Steuart Curry, artist of the mural Tragic Prelude, was one of the "Triumvirate" of this artistic movement, along with Thomas Hart Benton and Grant Wood.
  Part 3 (ans: Toussaint Louverture [or Francois-Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture; or Toussaint Breda]):
    In addition to his series on John Brown, Jacob Lawrence painted a series on "The Life of" this man. Lawrence's original series of 41 paintings of this man, including a portrait in elaborate red and gold military costume, was one of his earliest major works.

[B2] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one painting, this man is shown kissing a stranger's baby as he descends a staircase. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Brown [or The Last Moments of John Brown; or Legend of John Brown]):
    Name this man whose Last Moments were painted by Thomas Hovenden. A twenty-two-panel series showing the Legend of this man was created for the Detroit Institute of Arts in 1941.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    The Legend of John Brown was created by this Black painter. People file through doors labeled "New York" and "Chicago" in the first panel of a series by this painter which also contains a scene of a segregated dining room.
  Part 3 (ans: Sistine Chapel):
    John Steuart Curry's depiction of Brown brandishing a bible and a rifle in the mural Tragic Prelude was inspired by the figure of God creating the Sun on this location's ceiling. Michelangelo painted The Creation of Adam for this Vatican building.

[B3] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series, made with the assistance of the artist's wife Gwendolyn Knight, was sold to the Phillips Collection and the MoMa, with the former buying the odd-numbered entries and the latter the evens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  The Migration Series [or The Migration of the Negro]):
    Name this series of 60 paintings, whose first entry depicts crowds at a station filtering through three entryways labeled "Chicago," "New York," and "St. Louis."
  Part 2 (ans: John Brown [accept The Legend of John Brown]):
    Jacob Lawrence, who painted the Migration Series, also created a series of works on the "legend" of this radical abolitionist, who is shown grasping a rifle and a Bible in front of a tornado in John Steuart Curry's Kansas Capitol building mural Tragic Prelude.
  Part 3 (ans: Walter Ellison):
    This painter's magnum opus, The Train Station, which is held by the Art Institute of Chicago, was inspired by his own migration from Macon, Georgia in the early 1920s.

[B4] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a light falling onto a kneeling Moses, pleading to the pharaoh, in his painting Let My People Go. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aaron Douglas):
    Name this artist of a dynamic mural whose central figure is seen holding a candle and pointing forward with his left hand; that piece, From Slavery to Reconstruction, is part of this man's series Aspects of Negro Life.
  Part 2 (ans: Harlem Renaissance):
    Douglas was part of this broad African American artistic movement, named after a New York neighborhood, that also included the artist of the Migration series, Jacob Lawrence.
  Part 3 (ans: John Brown [accept The Legend of John Brown]):
    Lawrence painted a series titled for the "legend" of this historical figure. John Stewart Curry painted this man with his arms extended out in front of a landscape featuring a tornado on the left.
