=== STOCK CLUES: Migration Series ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 29 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Migration Series
  - One work in this cycle depicts a woman in a red shirt, reading "letters from relatives in the North." Another work in this series depicts three faceless pallbearers carrying a wooden coffin, containing someone who had died of tuberculosis, topped with three distinct tulips. [PWR]
  - In 2019, (*) Helen Zughaib created an exhibition of works that were stylistically inspired by this series.
  - The first work in this series depicts a mass of people sorting themselves through doorways marked with the names of different American cities.
  - The artist of this series added sentence-long captions to each of its 60 works, thus telling a multi-generational story about its subjects.
  - This series exemplifies the "dynamic cubism" of its artist.
  - For 10 points, name this monumental cycle of paintings by Jacob Lawrence. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 Scattergories (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Syrian Arab Republic [or al-Jumhuriyah al-Arabiyah as-Suriyah; accept the Syrian Migration Series]
  - People from this country are depicted in a brightly-colored series of paintings by Helen Zughaib named after a series of American paintings from the 1940s. [PWR]
  - A portrait of a person born in this country, which would be revealed by the body heat of hundreds of people lying on the floor at once, was installed in the Tate Modern's Turbine Hall by Tania Bruguera in 2018. [PWR]
  - In 2016, Ai Weiwei ["eye way way"] controversially recreated a photograph of a person born in this country; that photograph was taken by (*) Nilufer Demir.
  - In 2014, Idris Elba and the band Elbow contributed to a video based on a reworking of Banksy's Balloon Girl which depicted a person from this country as part of an awareness campaign.
  - For 10 points, a 2015 photograph shows the body of Alan Kurdi, a three-year-old refugee from what country, washed up on a beach? [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: The Great Migration [accept answers that indicate a migration of African-Americans out of the South in the early 20th century; prompt on migration or Migration Series] (Drake and Cayton's book is titled Black Metropolis.)
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - People who took part in this process are the subject of a landmark study by St. [PWR]
  - Clair Drake and Horace Cayton, whose work was funded by the Works Progress Administration. [PWR]
  - Isabel Wilkerson interviewed over 1,200 people to write a history of this historical process titled The Warmth of Other Suns. [PWR]
  - A 2015 exhibit united 60 different works of art depicting this process split between the Phillips Gallery and MoMA. [PWR]
  - This process is responsible for creating such areas as (*) Bronzeville and Hunters Point, the latter of which coalesced around a World War II shipyard in San Francisco. [PWR]
  - Participants in this broader process include "King" Oliver's jazz band, which found work in Chicago.
  - For 10 points, name this major demographic shift in the early 20th century depicted on a series of murals by Jacob Lawrence, which involved much of the South's population going north. [GIVE]

[T4] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Migration Series [or The Migration of the Negro]
  - Leah Dickerman curated a recent exhibit of these works, commissioning poems by Natasha Trethewey and others for the catalogue. [PWR]
  - Edith Halpert ignored the instructions of the artist of these works and sold half of them to the Phillips Collection. [PWR]
  - One entry in this series consists largely of a bell mounted next to a headlamp and a smokestack. [PWR]
  - In his 70s, the artist of these works went back and edited all but five of the the captions of these paintings. [PWR]
  - A yellow railing (*) divides diners in the 49th entry in this series.
  - The artist's future wife Gwendolyn Knight helped transfer the drawings from this series to panels.
  - A figure in orange bows before the lone branch of a tree with a noose attached to it in the 15th entry in this series.
  - Its first entry depicts a mass of people queuing underneath ticket windows labeled "Chicago", "New York" and "St.
  - Louis".
  - For 10 points, name this series of works by Jacob Lawrence of African Americans fleeing the Deep South. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Isamu Noguchi pivoted to set design after critics like Henry McBride panned his 1934 sculpture of one of these events. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lynchings [prompt on executions or hangings or killings or murders or deaths]):
    Name these events that inspired Meta Vaux Warrick Fuller's sculpture of Mary Turner. Some Bright Morning is the first in Melvin Edwards's series of metal assemblages titled for these events that has spanned over 50 years.
  Part 2 (ans: the Great Migration [accept The Migration Series]):
    An empty noose and a huddled figure appear above the simple caption "There were lynchings" in the 15th panel of Jacob Lawrence's series depicting this title period.
  Part 3 (ans: erasing [or word forms like erased; accept erasing a Willem de Kooning drawing; accept Erased Lynchings or Erased de Kooning Drawing]):
    Ken Gonzales-Day digitally altered photographs of lynchings in a series titled for this action. Jasper Johns added a caption and a gilded frame to a conceptual work in which Robert Rauschenberg did this title action.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these people stands behind a large wooden "V" into which a man is hammering a wedge in a painting by Horace Pippin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Klansmen [accept members of the KKK or Ku Klux Klan or the Klan] (The Pippin painting is Mr. Prejudice, and the artist is Philip Guston.)):
    What sort of person is depicted as geometric forms over a black background in Norman Lewis's American Totem? Another artist often painted cartoonish depictions of these people holding cigars against pink backgrounds.
  Part 2 (ans: Abraham Lincoln):
    Pippin variously painted this president pardoning a sentry, building a cabin, and as a Good Samaritan. Pippin made a portrait of Marian Anderson after her concert in front of Daniel Chester French's sculpture of this president.
  Part 3 (ans: Jacob Lawrence [or Jacob Armstead Lawrence] (The series is his Migration Series.)):
    Pippin's John Brown Going to His Hanging inspired this artist's series The Legend of John Brown. People enter doors marked for various cities in the first entry of a 60-painting series that this artist made for the WPA.

[B3] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This event inspired an artwork which used oxidized paper and caulk to draw out railroad timetables and that was featured at a 2023 exhibition by Hauser & Wirth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Great Migration [prompt on migration] (The second clue refers to the first painting in Jacob Lawrence's Migration series.)):
    Name this event that inspired the piece You Don't Have to Tell Me Twice. People wearing black and green coats rush into doorways in an artwork in the style of "dynamic cubism" inspired by this event.
  Part 2 (ans: Mark Bradford (The piece in the second sentence is Bradford's Pickett's Charge.)):
    This creator of You Don't Have to Tell Me Twice painted over 60 panels containing ads for Black families to settle in Blackdom, New Mexico in another artwork inspired by the Great Migration. This artist used Paul Philippoteaux's cyclorama of a battle as the basis of a 400-foot long artwork in the Hirshhorn Museum.
  Part 3 (ans: collage):
    Bradford's Pickett's Charge was created using this technique of assembling different materials on a canvas.

[B4] 2023 Black History Month Packet (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Men carry beams of wood and plywood panels in The Builders, a painting by this artist displayed in the White House. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    Name this artist who used black and white to depict a scene of segregation from the sidewalk outside the Dixie Belle Cafe. His Murano glass mural New York in Transit is located in the Times Square subway station.
  Part 2 (ans: the Great Migration [accept Migration Series or The Migration of the Negro]):
    A 60-panel series by Lawrence depicts this historical event, with the first panel showing black men filtering through gates labeled "New York," "Chicago," and "St. Louis."
  Part 3 (ans: cubism (Note: the second clue refers to Georges Braque)):
    Lawrence referred to his work as the "dynamic [type of this style]." An earlier artist in this style created multiple abstract works depicting violins paired with objects like candlesticks and palettes.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Phillips Collection located in this city shares half of the works in a 60-panel series with MoMA. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Washington, D.C. [accept D.C. or Washington, D.C.; accept Washington Color School] (Yet Do I Marvel (Countee Cullen) is displayed at the National Museum of African-American History.)):
    Name this city where Sam Gilliam's five-panel Yet Do I Marvel (Countee Cullen) is displayed in a new museum designed by Freelon Adjaye Bond. Lou Stovall founded the printmaking company Workshop, Inc. in this city for artists in its "Color School."
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence [or Jacob Armstead Lawrence] (The painting is from the Migration Series.)):
    This artist painted a 60-panel series by applying unmixed casein ("KAY-seen") tempera one color at a time, one entry of which depicts a large crowd passing through gates reading "Chicago," "New York," and "St. Louis."
  Part 3 (ans: abstract expressionism [or Ab Ex; prompt on action painting by asking "what larger movement was that part of?"; reject "abstract" or "expressionism"]):
    The Washington Color School was an offshoot of this broader art movement whose American adherents included Robert Motherwell and Jackson Pollock.

[B6] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A series of four murals representing this event were made by Aaron Douglass, with the last depicting a silhouetted man holding his saxophone up towards the Statue of Liberty. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Migration [accept The Migration Series or The Migration of the Negro; prompt on descriptions of African-Americans moving to the North or similar]):
    Name this large-scale event, which titles a 60-panel Jacob Lawrence series which includes a painting of a gold rope separating two halves of a restaurant.
  Part 2 (ans: the Spiral [or the Spiral group or similar answers]):
    Jacob Lawrence studied under Charles Alston, who cofounded this group with Hale Woodruff and his cousin Romare Bearden. This group, named for a shape, encouraged collaborative political painting among African-American artists.
  Part 3 (ans: collages [or photomontages]):
    Romare Bearden specialized in artworks of this kind, like The Calabash. These artworks attach many found objects like newspaper clippings and cutouts to a canvas.

[B7] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series, made with the assistance of the artist's wife Gwendolyn Knight, was sold to the Phillips Collection and the MoMa, with the former buying the odd-numbered entries and the latter the evens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  The Migration Series [or The Migration of the Negro]):
    Name this series of 60 paintings, whose first entry depicts crowds at a station filtering through three entryways labeled "Chicago," "New York," and "St. Louis."
  Part 2 (ans: John Brown [accept The Legend of John Brown]):
    Jacob Lawrence, who painted the Migration Series, also created a series of works on the "legend" of this radical abolitionist, who is shown grasping a rifle and a Bible in front of a tornado in John Steuart Curry's Kansas Capitol building mural Tragic Prelude.
  Part 3 (ans: Walter Ellison):
    This painter's magnum opus, The Train Station, which is held by the Art Institute of Chicago, was inspired by his own migration from Macon, Georgia in the early 1920s.

[B8] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting by this artist shows three girls at a chalkboard writing the numbers "2", "3", and "4", while a different painting of a restaurant is divided vertically into two sides by a yellow rope. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jacob Lawrence [all the paintings are from his Migration Series]):
    Name this artist, who depicted a group summiting a hill underneath a blue sky dotted with six birds in a series that begins with a crowd of silhouettes filing in through doors labeled "Chicago", "New York", and "St. Louis".
  Part 2 (ans: Migration):
    Jacob Lawrence is best known for this series, named for the fact that it depicts the mass movement of African-Americans from the South to the urban North. Its various panels were reunited by the MoMA for the exhibition One-Way Ticket.
  Part 3 (ans: Toussaint L'Ouverture [accept either]):
    Jacob Lawrence created a series about this man at age twenty, which is now held in the Amistad Research Center, before revisiting the subject for another series over forty years later. The original series comprised 41 tempera panels, but Lawrence reworked it down to 15, which he screenprinted with the help of Lou Stovall.

[B9] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This series was meticulously planned out with the artist's wife Gwendolyn Knight, since its painter used the same hue on sixty different paintings at once to keep the colors consistent. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Migration series):
    Name this painting series, which catapulted its artist to fame after a 1941 solo exposition at the Manhattan Downtown gallery.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacob Lawrence):
    The Migration series is by this African-American artist, who also created a series depicting the legend of John Brown.
  Part 3 (ans: cubism):
    Lawrence referred to his style as a "dynamic" form of this art style, developed by Georges Braques and Pablo Picasso, which went through "analytic" and "synthetic" phases.
