=== STOCK CLUES: Toussaint Louverture ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 10 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Toussaint L'Ouverture [or Francois-Dominique Toussaint Louverture; or Toussaint Breda]
  - This is the central person of a 1938 book that ends with a note signed "G. [PWR]
  - Loveway" and an appendix that links this non-Cuban leader to Fidel Castro in a "quest for national identity." This devoted Catholic prevented Georges Biassou from massacring prisoners and escorted them to Le Cap.
  - This affranchi called themself the "trunk of the tree of liberty" as he was taken by the Creole and Heros warships to the Fort de Joux.
  - This leader defeated Andre Rigaud in the War of (*) Knives.
  - Alfred Auguste Nemours helped write a book subtitled for this person by C.
  - L.
  - R.
  - James.
  - The Black Jacobins details how this man and Jean-Jacques Dessalines led a successful slave uprising in Saint-Domingue.
  - For 10 points, name this leader of the Haitian Revolution. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the center of a mural, this man stands with his arms outstretched while a tornado and prairie fire approach from either side. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Brown (The Legend of John Brown is by Jacob Lawrence.)):
    Name this man, who is depicted in that work with his eyes and mouth wide open and his long beard blowing in the wind. Another artist used gouache ("gwash") and tempera for a series titled for The Legend of this man.
  Part 2 (ans: American Regionalism [or American Regionalist]):
    John Steuart Curry, artist of the mural Tragic Prelude, was one of the "Triumvirate" of this artistic movement, along with Thomas Hart Benton and Grant Wood.
  Part 3 (ans: Toussaint Louverture [or Francois-Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture; or Toussaint Breda]):
    In addition to his series on John Brown, Jacob Lawrence painted a series on "The Life of" this man. Lawrence's original series of 41 paintings of this man, including a portrait in elaborate red and gold military costume, was one of his earliest major works.

[B2] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Napoleon sent Charles Leclerc to stop this man's revolt, but yellow fever outbreaks forced him to retreat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois-Dominique Toussaint Louverture [accept Toussaint Breda]):
    Name this general whose slave revolt evolved into the Haitian Revolution. He was ultimately succeeded in his efforts by Jean-Jacques Dessalines.
  Part 2 (ans: Andre Rigaud):
    Louverture's revolution was hindered by this mixed-race man, whom he fought during the War of the Knives. Louverture sought to control this man's territory in the south of Saint-Domingue.
  Part 3 (ans: Comte de Rochambeau [or de Vimeur]):
    After Leclerc died of yellow fever, he was replaced by a cruel military commander from this family. A French count from this family led the U.S. naval blockade at the Battle of Yorktown.

[B3] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Along with Cecile Fatiman, this man gave a speech after drinking the blood of a black pig in the forest of Bois Caiman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dutty Boukman [or Boukman Dutty]):
    Name this former coachman who presided over a voodoo ceremony in 1791, which spurred an early black slave revolt around Le Cap in French Haiti.
  Part 2 (ans: Toussaint L'Ouverture [or Francois-Dominique Toussaint Louverture; or Toussaint Breda]):
    This "Black Spartacus" led the slave revolt that succeeded where Boukman failed, becoming governor-general of an independent Haiti in 1801 before quickly giving way to his lieutenant Dessalines.
  Part 3 (ans: Abbe Raynal [or Guillaume Thomas Francois Raynal]):
    This French abbot wrote about St. Domingue in his 1770 book History of the Two Indies, which contained chapters on the East Indies, South America, West Indies, and North America and then a final chapter analyzing the future of France in the New World.

[B4] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man's ancestors ruled as kings of Benin's port city of Allada. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Toussaint Louverture):
    Name this leader of the Haitian Revolution who was captured by deception and deported to France before independence was achieved.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Jacques Dessalines):
    This successor of Louverture officially declared the independence of Haiti and crowned himself emperor. He ordered the massacre of all white French who remained on the island in 1804.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexandre Petion):
    This leader of the free coloreds supported Andre Rigaud and Jean-Pierre Boyer in the War of the Knives against Louverture. After Dessalines' murder, this man split with Henri Christophe and ruled the southern Republic of Haiti.

[B5] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man died in a prison in France after he was captured by Charles Leclerc, and he had earlier defeated Andre Rigaud in the War of the Knives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Toussaint Louverture [or Francois-Dominique Toussaint Louverture]):
    Name this leader of a massive slave rebellion in the Caribbean colony of Saint-Domingue.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Haiti [or Republique d'Haiti; or Repiblik d' Ayiti]):
    Toussaint Louverture led the rebellion in this modern-day country on Hispaniola, whose population in the neighboring Dominican Republic was attacked during the Parsley Massacre.
  Part 3 (ans: mulattoes):
    Andre Rigaud, Alexandre Petion, and Jean-Pierre Boyer were members of this class in Haiti, which was seen as the elite class and often opposed the black leaders Louverture, Dessalines, and Christophe.
