=== STOCK CLUES: Rimsky-Korsakov ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 50 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov (The third line refers to the Capriccio Espagnol.)
  - A bouncy bassoon solo opens this composer's wind and piano quintet in B-flat major. [PWR]
  - A story of a knight saving a gazelle who turns out to be Queen Zenobia inspired this composer's Antar Symphony No. 2. [PWR]
  - Five separate cadenzas over percussion rolls open a fourth movement "scene" and Romani "song" by this composer whose energetic dance theme leads attacca into a "Fandango asturiano" with (*) castanets imitating the title country. [PWR]
  - This composer used harp and a solo violin playing high sixteenth note triplets to represent the title storyteller of a suite.
  - In an interlude from this composer's opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan, frantic chromatic runs depict a buzzing insect.
  - For 10 points, name this member of "The Mighty Five" who composed Scheherazade and the "Flight of the Bumblebee." [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
  - A "Hymn to the Wilderness" opens an opera by this composer that ends with a plot to reach the title Invisible City.
  - In an opera by this composer, the title character chooses the third sister as his bride to the dismay of the old woman Babarikha [ba-ba-REEK-uh]. [PWR]
  - A seven-scene opera by this composer is partly set in the realm of the Sea-King and includes three arias depicting the Varangian, Indian, and Venetian guest. [PWR]
  - The "Procession of the (*) Nobles" is played while the title princess returns as a spirit in this composer's opera Mlada.
  - Rapid descending chromatic notes open a frantic passage from an opera by this composer of Sadko that occurs after the Swan-Bird changes Prince Gvidon Saltanovich into an insect.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian composer whose opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan includes the "Flight of the Bumblebee." [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Answer: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
  - The fourth scene of an opera by this composer includes arias for Venetian and Varangian merchants singing about their homelands. [PWR]
  - Tommy Dorsey adapted an aria by this composer into the jazz standard "Song of India". [PWR]
  - In one opera by this composer, the title character wins a bet by catching three golden fish. [PWR]
  - This composer wrote an opera in which the chorus sings the "Dance of the Tumblers" after Mizgir swears to win the heart of the title character. [PWR]
  - In addition to (*) Sadko and The Snow Maiden, this composer included an interlude with rapid chromatic sixteenth-notes to depict Prince Gvidon's transformation by the Swan-Bird into an insect.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian composer, whose opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan includes the "Flight of the Bumblebee." [GIVE]

[T4] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov 
  - In an opera by this composer, the only roles beside the two title characters are an offstage chorus and blind violinist who plays an excerpt from an opera from a different composer. [PWR]
  - A satirical opera by this composer calls for a rare tenor altino to perform the role of an eunuch Astrologer, and was immediately banned when published. [PWR]
  - One of this composer's operas takes its libretto from the earlier abandoned collaborative project (*) Mlada and includes the cortege "Procession of the Nobles." In an opera by this composer, an interlude filled with rapid chromatic sixteenth notes represents the Swan-Bird assisting Prince Guidon as he is transformed into an insect.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian composer whose operas include The Golden Cockerel, The Snow Maiden, and The Tale of the Tsar-Sultan, which includes the "Flight of the Bumblebee." [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov [or Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov]
  - This composer wrote a piece whose fourth movement begins with four horns and two trumpets playing a cadenza-like fanfare over a snare drum roll.
  - That piece by him comprises five linked movements, the first and third of which are marked "Vivo e strepitoso" and are identical except for their key and orchestration.
  - The "Procession of the Nobles" is often excerpted from this composer's opera Mlada.
  - A "Fandango asturiano" and two "Alborada" movements are part of his Capriccio Espagnol.
  - In a fast-paced interlude from one of his operas, a rapidly descending chromatic scale played by flutes and first violins depicts the buzzing of the metamorphosed son of the title Tsar Saltan.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of the "Flight of the Bumblebee". [GIVE]

[T6] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
  - This composer adopted the canticle "Let them that also hate Him flee before Him," in a piece featuring a solo trombone imitating the voice of a deacon.
  - Tommy Dorsey adapted the jazz standard "Song of India" from one of this composer's arias.
  - A symphonic poem by this composer contains a "fanfare motif" of trombones and muted trumpets that is reprised in the last movement to depict a shipwreck. [PWR]
  - This composer experimented with unusual time signatures like 3/1, 2/1, and 5/2 in a piece based on the (*) Obikhod liturgical chants. [PWR]
  - A violin solo accompanied by harp represents the title character, and a solo bassoon represents the Kalendar Prince, in a tone poem by this composer that begins with "The Sea and Sinbad's Ship." For 10 points, name this composer of the Russian Easter Festival Overture, Scheherazade, and the frenetic Flight of the Bumblebee. [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
  - The finale of one piece by this composer features a melody in 6/16 time, in which a low flute plays the notes F-sharp - G-sharp - A - G-natural in an eighth-sixteenth rhythm.
  - One piece by this composer includes a movement that features five cadenzas for brass, violin, flute, clarinet, and harp respectively; that movement is titled "Scena e canto gitano".
  - He used only examples from his own music to demonstrate instrumentation in his posthumously published textbook Principles of Orchestration.
  - This composer, who featured two Asturian "Alborada" movements in his Capriccio Espagnol,included movements titled "The Young Prince and the Young Princess" and "The Sea and Sinbad's Ship" in a four-movement symphonic poem inspired by The Arabian Nights.
  - For 10 points, name this Russian composer of Scheherazade, whose opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan includes "Flight of the Bumblebee." [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov [or Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov]
  - Christian Lindberg made the definitive recording of one of this composer's pieces, in which he altered the cadenzas to include more multiphonics.
  - This composer of a Concerto for Trombone and Military Band wrote a piece that opens with a bass motif that emphasizes the notes E-D-C-B flat to represent a central male character.
  - Another of his compositions concludes with a movement that features exclamations of "Resurrexit!" and shifts into 2/1 time.
  - That piece opens in 5/2 time and features a solo cello evoking the theme "An angel cried out".
  - A harp accompanies a violin solo that uses triplets to evoke an "oriental" theme used to represent the title female character of a composition by this man that includes sections such as "The Kalendar Prince" and "The Sea and Sinbad's Ship".
  - For 10 points, name this Russian composer of Russian Easter Festival Overture and Scheherazade. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Scheherazade [or Shekherazada; or Rimsky-Korsakov's Op. 35 (composer not needed after named)]
  - The wife of this piece's composer protested its adaptation as a ballet in 1910 by Michel Fokine and Leon Bakst.
  - In this piece's first movement, a triplet arpeggio motif in the strings depicts waves rocking a boat.
  - The notes E-D-C-B-flat are prominent in a fanfare in this piece that contrasts with the theme of a character represented by a harp-accompanied (*) violin solo that recurs in movements like "Festival at Baghdad." For 10 points, identify this symphonic poem by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov inspired by Arabian Nights. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov
  - Christian Lindberg's famed recording of this man's Concerto for Trombone and Military Band adds multiphonics to the cadenzas.
  - One of his works opens with a bass motif based on the notes E-D-C-A sharp and depicts its title character with a harp-accompanied theme in which a solo violin plays high-register sixteenth note triplets.
  - He asked the strings to imitate guitars in a movement that follows the second "Alborada" movement in one of his works; that work ends with a "Fandango Asturiano." This composer wrote a symphonic suite that opens with the movement "The Sea and Sinbad's Ship." For 10 points, name this composer of Capriccio Espagnol and Scheherazade who also wrote an interlude called "Flight of the Bumblebee." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer was criticized for writing an F major string quartet that Tchaikovsky described as "filled with a host of clever things" but had a "dryly pedantic character." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov [or Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov]):
    Name this Russian composer who "cast the shackles off of counterpoint" in his opera May Night. He largely stayed away from counterpoint in his piece Scheherazade.
  Part 2 (ans: Rubinstein [accept Anton Grigoryevich Rubinstein or Nikolai Grigoryevich Rubinstein]):
    A composer with this surname and first name Anton wrote that Rimsky-Korsakov may "amount to something" after listening to his quartet. His brother with this surname opened the Moscow Conservatory.
  Part 3 (ans: Belyayev circle [or Belyayevski kruzhok]):
    During Rimsky-Korsakov's "counterpoint" era, he attended "Quartet Fridays" hosted by this Russian society, named for a music publisher. Unlike The Five, this group emphasized a Western quality to music.

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer served as Inspector of Naval Bands and was a professor at the Saint Petersburg Conservatory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov):
    Name this composer, a celebrated orchestrator, who also wrote the suite Scheherazade ("she-HAIR-uh-zod") and the opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan, the latter of which contains The Flight of the Bumblebee.
  Part 2 (ans: bassoon):
    Rimsky-Korsakov describes this instrument as "an atmosphere of senile mockery" in his Principles of Orchestration. This instrument with ten keys for the left thumb is occasionally scored in tenor clef.
  Part 3 (ans: trumpet):
    In Scheherazade, this instrument plays several rapid passages in the third and fourth movements. This instrument also plays the promenade theme in Ravel's arrangement of Pictures at an Exhibition.

[B3] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An F Minor string quartet was written as a homage to this composer after her death by her brother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fanny Mendelssohn [or Fanny Hensel; prompt on Mendelssohn; do NOT accept or prompt on "Felix Mendelssohn"]):
    Name this composer who pioneered the musical genre of Songs Without Words, which was popularised by her brother Felix.
  Part 2 (ans: Easter [accept Easter Sonata; accept Russian Easter Festival Overture: Overture on Liturgical Themes; accept Great Russian Easter Festival Overture] (The latter work is by Rimsky-Korsakov.)):
    Until 2010, it was believed that an A major piano sonata by Fanny named for this time period was actually written by Felix until its examination by Angela Mace Christian. A concert overture dedicated to Mussorgsky and Borodin which opens in 5/2 ("five two") time is also named for this time period.
  Part 3 (ans: piano trio [prompt on trio]):
    Among Fanny Mendelssohn's other compositions is a D minor piece in this genre, her opus 11. Before her death, Mendelssohn was the planned dedicatee of a G minor work in this genre by Clara Schumann.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A 1914 book on this topic by Cecil Forsyth provides a history and description of the Phagotus ("fuh-GOH-tus") of Afranio in its appendix. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: orchestration [or instrumentation; prompt on arranging]):
    Name this musical discipline, the subject of a treatise by Hector Berlioz ("BARELY-ohz") that was revised by Richard Strauss ("RICK-art SHTROWSS").
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov [or Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov]):
    This Russian composer's Principles of Orchestration uses only examples from his own works, such as Capriccio Espagnol ("kah-PREACH-yoh ay-spahn-YOHL")and Scheherazade ("shuh-HAIR-uh-zahd").
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Adler [or Samuel Hans Adler]):
    This German-born American composer and professor at Juilliard ("JOO-lee-ard") wrote The Study of Orchestration, which has surpassed Walter Piston's Orchestration as perhaps the most commonly used orchestration textbook.

[B5] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's "Song for Athene," which sets lyrics by the nun Mother Thekla as a tribute to the title actress who died in a car accident, brought him fame when it was played during Princess Diana's funeral. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Sir) John (Kenneth) Tavener ):
    Name this British composer and Eastern Orthodox convert best known for compositions like the Blake-inspired piece The Lamb, the cello-centered The Protecting Veil, and his early cantata The Whale.
  Part 2 (ans: The Glagolitic Mass [or Glagolska mse; or Msa glagolskaja; or Missa Glagolitica; or the Slavonic Mass]):
    Despite not coming from an Orthodox country, Leos Janacek's ("LEH-osh YAH-naht-schek's") pan-Slavic ideals motivated him to compose this liturgical piece in Old Church Slavonic. Its name comes from the precursor of the modern Cyrillic alphabet.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai (Andreyevich) Rimsky-Korsakov ):
    This composer used melodies from the Russian Orthodox liturgy to compose his Russian Easter Festival Overture. He is also known for the Scheherezade suite.

[B6] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the second movement of a programmatic symphony by this composer, a nightingale whose whistles can kill is represented by contrabassoon and flutes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Reinhold Gliere):
    Name this Russian composer who depicted the life of the bogatyr Ilya Muromets in his 3rd symphony. His ballet The Red Poppy contains a commonly-excerpted Russian Sailors Dance.
  Part 2 (ans: Pictures at an Exhibition):
    Ilya Muromets and other bogatyrs inspired the "Great Gate" depicted in the last movement of this suite by Modest Mussorgsky. This suite is based on a series of sketches by Viktor Hartmann.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov):
    In this other Russian composer's opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan, Saltan's son Gvidon grows up to be a bogatyr. This composer also wrote an opera and tone poem about the folk hero Sadko.

[B7] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a movement called "Dream of a Witches' Sabbath," two of these unusual low brass instruments play the "Dies irae" motif along with several bassoons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ophicleide ("OFF-ih-clyde")):
    Name this 19th-century instrument designed to replace the serpent that was also named for its snake-like shape. When a piece calls for this instrument, modern orchestras usually replace it with a tuba.
  Part 2 (ans: Hector Berlioz [or Louis-Hector Berlioz]):
    "Dream of a Witches' Sabbath" is the finale of the Symphonie fantastique by this composer.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov [prompt on partial answer]):
    Another depiction of a witches' sabbath is Mussorgsky's Night on Bald Mountain, whose most well-known version is an arrangement by this other composer. He wrote the operas Sadko and The Snow Maiden.

[B8] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera popularized the use of the whole-tone scale to represent evil in its home country; the scale has since been called "Chernomor's Scale." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruslan and Lyudmila):
    Name this nationalistic 1842 opera based on a Pushkin poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov):
    Mikhail Glinka's music, particularly his operas, was an important precursor to this composer, whose Pushkin-based The Tale of Tsar Saltan contains an interlude titled "The Flight of the Bumblebee."
  Part 3 (ans: Sadko):
    This Rimsky-Korsakov opera was based on his earlier "musical tableau" itself based on a bylina. It contains arias named for Varangian, Indian, and Venetian Guest and depicts a gusli-playing hero.

[B9] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece was adapted into a jazz trombone showpiece by Tommy Dorsey. For 10 points each
  Part 1 (ans: "Song of the Indian Guest" [or "Song of India"]):
    Name this piece sung by a foreign visitor to Novgorod and overheard by a protagonist who later marries the Sea-King's daughter. It follows similarly named songs performed by a Varangian and a Venetian.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov):
    The "Song of the Indian Guest" appears in this composer's opera Sadko. In his opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan, Prince Gvidon's transformation into an insect is accompanied by the "Flight of the Bumblebee."
  Part 3 (ans: The Snow Maiden: A Spring Fairy Tale [or Snegurochka: Vesennyaya Skazka]):
    The title character of this other Rimsky-Korsakov opera is the subject of a wooing contest between Lel and Mizgir. In a tragic ending, she melts and dies after declaring her love for Mizgir.

[B10] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's Symphony No. 4 begins with a brass "fate" theme that is heard again in the fourth movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky):
    Name this composer who included a canzonetta in his D major violin concerto, which its dedicatee Leopold Auer declined to premiere.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov):
    This other Russian composer wrote Scheherazade (shuh-HAIR-uh-zahd) and included the "Flight of the Bumblebee" in his opera The Tale of Tsar Sultan.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Glazunov):
    This student of Rimsky-Korsakov wrote a concerto in E-flat major for saxophone and strings. His A minor violin concerto groups the first two movements as one large sonata-form movement.

[B11] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 1993, Kurt Vonnegut wrote a new libretto for this piece, replacing its narrative with the story of Eddie Slovik. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Soldier's Tale [or L'Histoire du Soldat]):
    Name this theatrical work for seven instruments composed by Igor Stravinsky. It begins with the title character, Joseph, trading his fiddle to the devil for a book that can predict the future.
  Part 2 (ans: "A Mighty Fortress is Our God" [or "Ein Feste Burg ist unser Gott"]):
    The "Grand Chorale" of The Soldier's Tale parodies the melody of this popular Protestant hymn composed by Martin Luther. Mendelssohn quoted it in the finale of his Reformation symphony.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov [or Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov] 10):
    Stravinsky studied privately under this composer, and borrowed several melodies for The Firebird from his collection 100 Russian Folk Songs. His own works include the "Procession of the Nobles" and the symphonic suite Antar.

[B12] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title character of this suite is represented by an undulating theme for solo violin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Scheherazade):
    Name this four-movement suite that ends with a movement depicting a "Festival in Baghdad" and a shipwreck.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov [or Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov]):
    Scheherazade is by this member of the Mighty Handful, whose opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan includes his "Flight of the Bumblebee".
  Part 3 (ans: orchestration [or instrumentation; or word forms, such as orchestrating]):
    Rimsky-Korsakov's most long-lived music educational work is a treatise on this subject. Richard Strauss edited a popular edition of Berlioz's treatise on this same subject.

[B13] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The music patron Mitrofan Belaieff, who hosted "quartet Fridays" at his house, was the honoree of a collaborative string quartet on the theme B-La-F, echoing his name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov):
    The first movement of the quartet was composed by this member of The Five, who also composed the Russian Easter Festival Overture and "The Flight of the Bumblebee."
  Part 2 (ans: Anatoly Konstantinovich Liadov):
    The second movement was written by this composer, whose tone poems include The Enchanted Lake, Kikimora and Baba Yaga. Before hiring Stravinsky, Diaghilev asked this composer to score The Firebird.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Porfiryevich Borodin):
    The third movement was by this composer, who is known for the third-movement nocturne from his second string quartet, as well as the "Polovtsian Dances."

[B14] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The A-D-F sharp-A "Viennese tuning" of this instrument that was developed in the mid-18th century is required to prop-erly do justice to Carl Ditters von Dittersdorf's frst concerto for it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: double bass [or upright bass; or bass fddle; or string bass; or bass violin; or doghouse bass; or contrabass; or bass viol; or stand-up bass; or bull fiddle; or really anything with the word bass in it]):
    Name this bowed string instrument, the lowest in the violin family.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico (Carlo Maria) Dragonetti):
    The scores and parts for orchestral basses were pretty simplistic before this Venetian virtuoso showed up. He created a ironically overlooked showpiece he called "The Famous Solo" and played a three-stringed bass tuned G-D-A.
  Part 3 (ans: Scheherazade [or Rimsky-Korsakov's Op. 35]):
    The basses play a grim E-D-C-A sharp theme in the frst movement of this 1888 symphonic suite, whose memorable third movement is titled "The Young Prince and the Young Princess."

[B15] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The score for this piece explains that the unusual 5/2 opening tempo should be subdivided into 2 and 3 beats. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russian Easter Festival Overture: Overture on Liturgical Themes [or Great Russian Easter Overture; or Svetliy prazdnik]):
    Name this piece that begins with a Lento mystico liturgical melody of quarters and halves in the winds, followed by pizzicato syncopated rhythms in the low strings before a dolce a piacere violin cadenza.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov):
    This composer of the Russian Easter Festival Overture also wrote two "Alborada" movements and a "Fandango asturiano" in his Capriccio espagnol. He also wrote "Flight of the Bumblebee."
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Porfiryevich Borodin):
    With Alexander Glazunov, Rimsky-Korsakov completed this other composer's Prince Igor.

[B16] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composition started a trend of Spanish-themed music in France. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Symphonie espagnole [accept Spanish Symphony]):
    Name this violin concerto, written in 1874 for Pablo de Sarasate.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov):
    Another Spanish-themed piece is Capriccio Espagnol, written by this composer of the Russian Easter Festival Overture and "The Flight of the Bumblebee."
  Part 3 (ans: Maurice Ravel):
    This composer wrote the Spanish-inspired Rapsodie espagnole. His other works include Jeux d'eau and Pavane for a Dead Princess.

[B17] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work's fourth movement, "Scene e canto gitano," begins with a horn and trumpet cadenza followed by cadenzas for violin, then flute, then clarinet, then harp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Capriccio Espagnol [or Capriccio on Spanish Themes]):
    Name this five-movement orchestral work which features two "Alborado" movements, the first of which features a recurring trilled eighth, sixteenth, sixteenth, eighth, eighth motif in the solo clarinet part.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov):
    This composer of the Capriccio Espagnol is better known for composing an interlude for The Tale of Tsar Sultan called "The Flight of the Bumblebee."
  Part 3 (ans: Russian Easter Festival Overture [or The Great Russian Easter Overture]):
    This Rimsky-Korsakov work begins in 5/2 with an early violin cadenza, and ends with an allegro agitato section. It is subtitled "Overture on Liturgical Themes" and includes quotations from Psalms and Mark before the score.
