=== STOCK CLUES: Krasznahorkai ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Laszlo Krasznahorkai
  - This author wrote about a game warden who decides to hunt humans after a conversion experience in the second of a pair of linked novellas about hunting.
  - A Kyoto heron spearing for fish and a Louvre guard watching the Venus de Milo are subjects of two of the disparate chapters on aesthetics that make up another novel by this author.
  - Mr.
  - Eszter tries to supplant the "artificial" tuning system used in Bach's Well-Tempered Clavier in another novel by this author, in which a traveling circus comes to a small town with the world's largest dead whale.
  - This author of The Last Wolf and Herman, as well as Seiobo There Below, collaborated on a seven-hour-long, extremely slow adaptation of one of his novels by Bela Tarr.
  - Susan Sontag used the phrase "contemporary master of the apocalypse" to describe, for 10 points, what Hungarian author of The Melancholy of Resistance and Satantango? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After Pandora's Box, G. W. Pabst's second collaboration with Louise Brooks was a 1929 film titled for one of these objects in which the innocent girl Thymian falls into prostitution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: diary [or diaries; accept Diary of a Lost Girl or Diary of a Country Priest; accept Tagebuch einer Verlorenen or Journal d'un cure de campagne]):
    Paul Schrader's primary influences for the film First Reformed were Ingmar Bergman's Winter Light and a Robert Bresson film titled for what sort of object belonging to a country priest?
  Part 2 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag] (The first director is Marta Meszaros. Bela Tarr and Agnes Hranitzky collaborated with the novelist Laszlo Krasznahorkai on the latter films.)):
    A director from this country made Diary for My Children as part of her Diary Trilogy. A pair of married directors from this country collaborated with a novelist on the films Werckmeister Harmonies and Satantango.
  Part 3 (ans: Sergei Eisenstein):
    This director's first film, Glumov's Diary, uses several visual gags to portray the book's contents. This Soviet pioneer of montage directed Battleship Potemkin.

[B2] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In Michael Hamburger's translation, a poem titled for this event begins, "From pointed pates hats fly into the blue." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: end of the world [accept apocalypse; accept Weltende or "A Song on the End of the World"]):
    Name this event that titles a Jakob van Hoddis piece reputed to be the "first expressionist poem." An old man who is busy binding tomatoes is the only person to notice this event in a Czeslaw Milosz "song" titled for it.
  Part 2 (ans: Polish [or polski]):
    This language was used in apocalyptic poems like "A Ball at the Opera" by the Skamandrite poet Julian Tuwim and for most of Czeslaw Milosz's poetry.
  Part 3 (ans: The World Goes On [or Megy a vilag] (by Laszlo Krasznahorkai)):
    The title of this 2014 collection subverts its author's reputation as a "master of the apocalypse." After "79 paragraphs on blank pages," this collection ends by resolving to "leave everything here" in the prose poem "I Don't Need Anything from Here."

[B3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a novel by this author praises the artistic isolation of a Sienese painter while looking at depictions of torture in the Louvre on the eve of the Sudetenland annexation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Weiss [or Peter Ulrich Weiss] (The play is Marat/Sade.)):
    Name this author who included meditations on the revolutionary aspects of artworks in his novel The Aesthetics of Resistance. A play by this author is set in an asylum run by Coulmier.
  Part 2 (ans: Seiobo There Below [or Seiobo jart odalent] (by Laszlo Krasznahorkai)):
    In this novel, the apprentice Aulista questions if his master Perugino has lost interest in painting after he delays the completion of his Tezi Altarpiece. This novel's interconnected chapters on aesthetics are numbered according to the Fibonacci sequence.
  Part 3 (ans: Oulipo [or Workshop of Potential Literature; or Ouvroir de litterature potentielle]):
    Gaspard Winckler attempts to forge a portrait by Antonello da Messina in Le Condottiere, a posthumously published novel by Georges Perec, a member of this primarily French constrained writing movement.

[B4] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Max Neumann created the surreal illustrations for a series of prose pieces by this author that describes a horrible beast enclosed in a suffocatingly small space. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai (The novel is Satantango.)):
    Name this author who wrote the collections Animalinside and The World Goes On. The conman Irimias convinces the inhabitants of a post-communist collective farm to abscond to a nearby crumbling mansion in this man's 1985 debut novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Franz Kafka):
    Colm Toibin's introduction to Animalinside compares Krasznahorkai to this author, who himself wrote about terrible creatures as a symbol of alienation in his story "The Burrow" and his novella The Metamorphosis.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Beckett):
    Toibin's introduction also compares Krasznahorkai with this author, who wrote about the title character becoming a manservant in Mr. Knott's house in his novel Watt.

[B5] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a Richard Lovelace poem declares "I could not love thee more, dear, loved I not honour more" on the subject of going to this kind of event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: war):
    Identify this kind of event. A Stephen Crane poem states "Do not weep, maiden" for this is kind.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai):
    War and War is a novel by this Hungarian author who wrote about a circus visiting a town with the carcass of a giant whale in The Melancholy of Resistance. Bela Tarr made a 7-hour film adaptation of this author's Satantango.
  Part 3 (ans: Leo Tolstoy):
    War and Peace is a novel by this Russian author of The Death of Ivan Ilyich and Anna Karenina.

[B6] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A pregnant woman walks through Rome to a Bach concert in a novel with this characteristic, F.C. Delius's Portrait of the Mother as a Young Woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: they're written in one sentence [or obvious equivalents; prompt on written without paragraph breaks or similar]):
    Identify this stylistic quirk shared by Bohumil Hrabal's novel Dancing Lessons for the Advanced of Age and by approximately the last twenty pages of another novel, in which the narrator recalls being proposed to in Gibraltar.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai):
    A man tells a bartender about his experiences reporting on the killing of the title animal in the Spanish region of Extremadura in this author's single-sentence novella The Last Wolf. The World Goes On is a collection of stories by this winner of the 2015 Man Booker International.
  Part 3 (ans: Poland):
    The sentence "And they marched all night" follows a 39,995 word sentence in The Gates of Paradise by this country's author Jerzy Andrzejewski, who appears as "Alpha" in Czeslaw Milosz's The Captive Mind.

[B7] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one novel, this author reflects on two uses of the word "no" in his life; one when his wife suggests they have children, and one when he is asked by a doctor whether he has children. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Imre Kertesz [KER-TESH]):
    Name this author who wrote about refusing to bring new life into a world that allowed the Holocaust in Kaddish for an Unborn Child, and of a child's experience in Buchenwald in Fateless.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai [KRASS-NA-WHORE-KYE]):
    This author from the same country as Kertesz writes about a circus that only has a whale in The Melancholy of Resistance, and how farmers escape from their masters in an authoritarian society in Satantango.
  Part 3 (ans: Hungary [accept Magyarorszag]):
    Kertesz and Krasznahorkai are both from this Central European nation, whose other contemporary authors include Peter Nadas and whose national epic is The Siege of Sziget.

[B8] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel in this language is numbered according to the Fibonacci sequence, and features the title goddess descending into a noh actor, as well as a description of the eyes of a statue of the Amida Buddha. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hungarian [or Magyar]):
    Name this language, which was used to write Seiobo There Below. It also was used to write a novel in which Korin's "life changes forever" after he finds a manuscript about four adventurers, War and War.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai):
    Seiobo There Below and War and War are by this "Master of the Apocalypse," who allegorized fascism's rise in a novel about a town's fascination with a circus exhibiting a whale carcass, The Melancholy of Resistance.
  Part 3 (ans: Heaven [or Paradise or Paradiso]):
    The epigraph to War and War enigmatically notes that "[this place] is sad." The third part of Dante's The Divine Comedy describes this place, including its Empyrean.

[B9] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: According to Susan Sontag, this writer's A Book of Memories was "the greatest novel written in our time, and one of the great books of the century." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter Nadas ):
    Identify this author whose latest novel, Parallel Stories, begins with the fall of the Berlin Wall and encompasses most of post-war European history.
  Part 2 (ans: Laszlo Krasznahorkai ):
    This countryman of Peter Nadas wrote of Georgy Korin, who finds an unknown manuscript and is overwhelmed by its beauty, in his novel War and War, and Mrs. Eszter's scheming to get herself appointed head of the town committee on moral renewal in The Melancholy of Resistance.
  Part 3 (ans: Imre Kertesz):
    Sure, whatever, they're Hungarian, just like this author of Fatelessness and Kaddish for a Child Not Born.
