=== STOCK CLUES: Bramante ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 9 found, 27 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Donato Bramante [or Donato di Pascuccio d'Antonio]
  - In a painting by this person, a window overlooking ships and a distant landscape is behind a ringletted Christ tied to an elaborately foliated column. [PWR]
  - In Milan, this person designed the sixteen-sided dome of Santa Maria delle Grazie, and produced another painting in which a trompe-l'œil makes an alcove seem to be an entire choir around the altar of Santa Maria presso San Satiro. [PWR]
  - Ferdinand and Isabella commissioned this person to design a monument on the site of St Peter's (*) crucifixion, for which they built a perfectly circular building. [PWR]
  - A dome designed by this person was revised into an ovoid by Michelangelo, while a neighbouring building contains a double-helix staircase named for this person and commissioned by Pope Julius II.
  - For 10 points, name this architect of the Tempietto, the first architect of the modern St Peter's Basilica in Rome. [GIVE]

[T2] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Donato Bramante
  - One work originally attributed to this architect is now thought to have been mainly designed by Giovanni Antonio Amadeo. [PWR]
  - This architect designed a palazzo which was demolished in the 17th century, but earlier served as a residence for Raphael. [PWR]
  - His namesake cloister is located in the Santa Maria della Pace, and he is widely credited with designing the apse of the Santa Maria della (*) Grazie. [PWR]
  - He designed a small but harmonious building in the courtyard of the church of San Pietro in Montorio, meant to commemorate the location of St.
  - Peter's martyrdom.
  - This architect of the Tempietto is best known for a design based on a Greek cross with a dome based on the Pantheon, but he was replaced by Sangallo, Fra Giocondo and Raphael when his patron Julius II died.
  - For 10 points, name this architect who was the original designer of St. [GIVE]
  - Peter's Basilica.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This figure's red cloak is sometimes interpreted as symbolizing fire, in contrast to the bright blue cloak of the man to his right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Plato [or Platon]):
    Name this figure who is modeled on Leonardo da Vinci in a Renaissance painting in which he holds a book in his left hand and points into the air with his right.
  Part 2 (ans:  The School of Athens [or La scuola d'Atene]):
    That depiction of Plato is from this painting, whose artist, Raphael, flattered himself by giving his own features to its depiction of the master artist Apelles.
  Part 3 (ans: Donato Bramante [or Bramante Lazzari] (The latter building is the Tempietto.)):
    Vasari suggests that this artist was the model for Euclid in The School of Athens. This artist designed the Palazzo Caprini ("pah-LOTS-oh ka-PREE-nee") where Raphael once lived, as well as a small, circular chapel commissioned by Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain.

[B2] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Rome, this man earned the nickname Il Ruinate because he demolished so many old buildings to make room for his new ones. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Donato Bramante [or Donato di Pascuccio d'Antonio; or Bramante Lazzari]):
    Identify this architect who designed the small, circular church called the Tempietto in 1502.
  Part 2 (ans: St. Peter's Basilica [or Papal Basilica of St. Peter in the Vatican; or Basilica Papale di San Pietro in Vaticano]):
    Bramante was one of the many architects to work on this building in Vatican City. Michelangelo, who also worked on this domed building, sculpted a Pieta, which is housed in one of its chapels.
  Part 3 (ans: belvedere [accept Belvedere courtyard or Apollo Belvedere]):
    Bramante designed a hugely influential courtyard of this name for the Vatican Palace. Joachim Winckelmann celebrated the "noble simplicity and quiet grandeur" of a sculpture of Apollo with this word in its title.

[B3] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In architecture, pilasters are surfaces raised from an underlying flat surface, and they resemble these objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: columns):
    Name these building components which typically consist of a "shaft" between a "base" and a "capital." In the Doric order, these objects may possess grooves called flutes.
  Part 2 (ans: Tuscan Order [accept any answers indicating the order of Tuscany]):
    In the Renaissance, this order of architecture was considered the simplest, as it consists of Doric elements with a plain entablature. This order was sometimes called "Roman Doric," but it takes its name from an Italian region.
  Part 3 (ans: Donato Bramante [accept Donato di Pascuccio d'Antonio; or Bramante Lazzari; or Donato d'Augnolo; or Donino Bramante; prompt on Donato]):
    This architect used several different orders, such as Tuscan columns surrounding a Doric-appearing set of pilasters, for the martyrium he made in San Pietro, the Tempietto.

[B4] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about artists who had it in for Michelangelo.
  Part 1 (ans: Donato Bramante):
    According to Ascanio Condivi, this architect was jealous of Mike's success in sculpture and, knowing that he wasn't trained in fresco painting, arranged to get him the Sistine chapel job; when this man noticed how well Mike was doing, he tried to have him replaced by Raphael. This architect is best known for planning St. Peter's Basilica.
  Part 2 (ans: the Palazzo Vecchio):
    According to Vasari, the lousy artist Bartolomeo Bandinelli was so jealous of Michelangelo that he destroyed Mike's preparatory drawing for the Battle of Cascina, which was commissioned for this Florentine building opposite Da Vinci's Battle of Anghiari.
  Part 3 (ans: breaking his nose [or equivalents] .):
    Vasari also tells about Pietro Torrigiano being kicked out of Florence for doing this to Michelangelo. Cellini quotes Torrigiano as saying he "felt bone and cartilage go down like biscuit beneath my knuckles," and the result of this action is visible in all of Michelangelo's portraits.

[B5] 2016 ACF Fall (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about stairs, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: the Paris Opera House [accept the Opera Garnier or the Salle des Capucines; prompt on Palais Garnier or any partial answers]):
    Torcheres designed by Albert Carrier-Belleuse flank the Grand Staircase of this French landmark, whose auditorium features a removable ceiling designed by Marc Chagall. It is often known by the name of its architect, Charles Garnier.
  Part 2 (ans: Michelangelo [or Michelangelo di Ludovico Buonarotti Simoni]):
    A tripartite staircase featuring wide oval risers at its base leading to the reading room of the Laurentian Library in Florence was designed by this Italian, whose sculptural accomplishments include David and the Pieta.
  Part 3 (ans: Donato Bramante):
    Two spiral staircases in the Vatican Museums, one designed in 1505 and a later double-helix namesake designed by Giuseppe Momo, are named for this Italian architect, whose Tempietto is found in San Pietro in Montorio.

[B6] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Andrea Palladio, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Jefferson):
    Palladio's Four Books on Architecture was a huge influence on this self-trained American architect and statesman, who designed the University of Virginia campus and based his plantation Monticello on Palladio's Villa Rotonda.
  Part 2 (ans: Donato Bramante):
    Palladio's urban palazzi were inspired in part by this man's Palazzo Caprini. This man's most famous creation, located in the courtyard of the Roman church of San Pietro in Montorio, is the Tempietto.
  Part 3 (ans: Venice [or Venezia]):
    Palladio included two minaret-like bell towers in a church called "Il Redentore", which is located in this city. This city's other architectural highlights include many works of Jacopo Sansovino, the Rialto Bridge, and the Bridge of Sighs.

[B7] 2014 Delta Burke (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about St. Peter's Basilica, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Donato Bramante):
    Pope Julius II commissioned this architect to design St. Peter's Basilica, and his other works include the circular Tempietto, which commemorated the site of St. Peter's crucifixion.
  Part 2 (ans: Michelangelo Buonarroti [accept either]):
    This man designed the dome of St. Peter's and also painted the Sistine Chapel's ceiling.
  Part 3 (ans: Gian Lorenzo Bernini):
    This man mostly completed the design of St. Peter's, which contains his canopy known as the baldacchino. Another of his works depicts an angel thrusting an arrow into Saint Theresa.

[B8] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This church is the largest in the world, which it snarkily proves with floor markers showing where other churches would fit if placed inside. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: St. Peter's Basilica [or Papal Basilica of Saint Peter in the Vatican; or Basilica Papale di San Pietro in Vaticano]):
    Name this basilica in Vatican City which was partly designed by Michelangelo and Carlo Maderno.
  Part 2 (ans: Gian Lorenzo Bernini):
    Much of the interior of St. Peter's, including the baldachin over its altar and the Cathedra Petri in the apse, was designed by this sculptor.
  Part 3 (ans: Donato Bramante):
    This architect, who marked the location of St. Peter's martyrdom with his small and well-proportioned Tempietto, was selected as the main architect of St. Peter's Basilica by Julius II.

[B9] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One building by this architect is surrounded by sixteen Doric columns, which are accessible after climbing the three steps on its base. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Donato Bramante):
    Identify this Italian architect of the circular Tempietto building, who also designed the Cortile del Belvedere in the Vatican for Julius II.
  Part 2 (ans: New St. Peter's Basilica [or Basilica Sancti Petri or Basilica Papale di San Pietro in Vaticano or Papal Basilica of Saint Peter]):
    Bramante designed the original plan for the massive expansion of this religious building, which would have laid it out in the form of a Greek Cross. Other architects to work on this domed building include Raphael and Antonio da Sangallo the Younger.
  Part 3 (ans: Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni):
    After the death of Sangallo, Paul III appointed this man as chief architect of St. Peter's. His Pieta is now located within St. Peter's, and he's also known for a marble statue of David.
