=== STOCK CLUES: Barry Lyndon ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Barry Lyndon
  - Two characters in this film exchange longing gazes at a gambling table, then wordlessly head out and share a kiss. [PWR]
  - A climactic scene from this film is set in a dilapidated barn with cooing pigeons and accompanied by a low, throbbing melody in the timpani and strings. [PWR]
  - This film zooms out from its title character on a balcony after he viciously beats his stepson. [PWR]
  - Superfast Zeiss cameras developed for NASA were used to shoot this film by (*) candlelight. [PWR]
  - The main title and duels in this film feature a D minor sarabande by Handel.
  - Paintings by William Hogarth inspired shots in this film, whose protagonist flees the Seven Years' War and takes his aristocratic wife's last name.
  - For 10 points, Ryan O'Neal stars as an Irish social climber in what period drama based on a Thackeray novel and directed by Stanley Kubrick? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 On Cinema at the Buzzer (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Barry Lyndon
  - The last thing we see of this film's protagonist is a freeze frame of him getting into a carriage with his mother after the narrator calls him "utterly baffled and beaten." Schubert's German Dance No. 1 plays over the eighth birthday party of the son of this film's protagonist, which features a magic show in which a rabbit appears in a previously empty drawer.
  - The painting The (*) Tete a Tete  influenced a tableau in which this film's protagonist is slumped over in an alcoholic stupor after his son Bryan is thrown from a horse and killed.
  - Period research that the director had done for an abandoned Napoleon biopic informed this film, for which ultra-fast lenses were used to allow scenes to be shot by candlelight.
  - For 10 points, name this Stanley Kubrick film based on a Thackeray novel. [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Barry Lyndon
  - In this film, a soundtrack of drum beats plays as a man walks down a hallway and up to the sleeping protagonist slumped in a chair, whose chin he lifts with a cane. [PWR]
  - In a scene of this film, a chamber concert gradually stops as the stomping noise produced by a boy walking up the aisle in his older half-brother's shoes grows louder. [PWR]
  - Three cameras on an 800-foot track were used to shoot a brief battle sequence in this film, in which rows of soldiers march under fire towards a line of the white-clad enemy. [PWR]
  - This film's protagonist apologizes to his wife for his infidelity with a maid while she lies in a chair-shaped bathtub.
  - The director of this film used a NASA-designed, super-fast (*) f/0.7 lenses to shoot its many candlelit scenes. [PWR]
  - Throughout this film, the camera zooms out to frame painting-like images, such as when the title character is preparing for a duel with Quin.
  - For 10 points, name this film about an 18th-century Irish adventurer directed by Stanley Kubrick. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This film features a flute and snare drum playing "The British Grenadiers" during battle scenes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barry Lyndon):
    Name this three-hour film, whose title rogue climbs the English social ladder but loses his left leg in a duel. This film's director borrowed special 50mm lenses from NASA to shoot candlelight scenes inspired by Hogarth.
  Part 2 (ans: Paths of Glory):
    The director of Barry Lyndon earlier depicted the brutality of trench warfare in this film, which ends with a German prisoner singing "The Faithful Hussar" to a group of soldiers. After starring in this film, Kirk Douglas again worked with its director on Spartacus.
  Part 3 (ans: Stanley Kubrick):
    Barry Lyndon and Paths of Glory were directed by this man, who also directed 2001: A Space Odyssey.

[B2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's essay "Going to See a Man Hanged" is about the execution of Francois Benjamin Courvoisier ("koor-vwah-zee-YAY"), a valet who murdered his employer, Lord William Russell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Makepeace Thackeray (The Irishman is the title character of The Luck of Barry Lyndon.)):
    Name this author whose novel Catherine satirizes the glamorized criminals of his era's Newgate novels. An Irishman created by this author is impressed into the Prussian army after pretending to be Lieutenant Fakenham.
  Part 2 (ans: Jack Sheppard):
    This Newgate novel by William Harrison Ainsworth led Courvoisier to kill Lord Russell. Its title character is repeatedly captured by the thief-taker Jonathan Wild and eventually hanged.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Dickens [accept Boz] (Nancy appears in Oliver Twist.)):
    This author also attended Courvoisier's execution. In "Going to See a Man Hanged," Thackeray criticizes this man's unrealistic character Nancy, an associate of Bill Sikes and Fagin.

[B3] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The last shot of this film is a recreation of the final piece in William Hogarth's series Marriage-a-la-Mode. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barry Lyndon):
    Name this film whose cinematography was inspired by a scrapbook of classic English paintings. NASA lens technology captured actors in this movie moving laterally to the camera to avoid going out of focus, because this movie was largely lit by candles.
  Part 2 (ans: Stanley Kubrick):
    Barry Lyndon was born out of this director's scrapped idea for a Napoleon biopicture. This director popularized the tracking shot in films like 2001: A Space Odyssey.
  Part 3 (ans: Terence Malick):
    This director's Days of Heaven was inspired by Andrew Wyeth's Christina's World and other pastoral paintings. This director adapted the Book of Job into the Tree of Life.

[B4] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about technical developments in filmmaking pioneered by Stanley Kubrick. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Steadicam):
    Although not the first film to use it, The Shining represented the theretofore most versatile use of this brand of body-mounted camera stabiliser patented by Garrett Brown.
  Part 2 (ans: Barry Lyndon):
    Kubrick's previous film was this adaptation of a Thackeray novel starring Ryan O'Neal. In this film, Kubrick used a NASA-developed lens with a 0.7 f-stop to shoot scenes without arc lighting.
  Part 3 (ans: John Alcott):
    Kubrick worked on The Shining and A Clockwork Orange with this British cinematographer, who won the Academy Award for Best Cinematography for his work on Barry Lyndon.

[B5] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Throughout this movie, the camera slowly zooms outward to make the frame resemble eighteenth-century paintings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barry Lyndon):
    Name this period drama that used special Zeiss lenses with an f-stop of 0.7 in order to shoot scenes entirely by candlelight.
  Part 2 (ans: Stanley Kubrick):
    Barry Lyndon was directed by this filmmaker, in between his movies A Clockwork Orange and The Shining.
  Part 3 (ans: Steadicam):
    In The Shining, Kubrick used this device invented by Garrett Brown to direct the scenes of Danny riding around the Overlook hotel on his tricycle. It allows cameramen to avoid the jerking motions of traditional handheld cinematography.

[B6] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following literary appearances of the song "Lillibullero", for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman):
    Uncle Toby constantly whistles the song in this comic novel by Laurence Sterne, whose title character is, among other things, circumcised by a falling window sash.
  Part 2 (ans: Waverley; or, 'Tis Sixty Years Since):
    The clan chieftain Fergus Mac-Ivor sings a verse from "Lillibullero" in this Walter Scott novel, whose title character joins the cause of Bonnie Prince Charlie after falling in love with Fergus's sister Flora.
  Part 3 (ans: The Luck of Barry Lyndon [or The Memoirs of Barry Lyndon, Esq.; by William Makepeace Thackeray]):
    "Lillibullero" plays during a scene in the 1975 film adaptation of this 1844 picaresque novel, whose title character fights John Quin in a duel and poses as "Lieutenant Fakenham" while fighting in the Seven Years' War.

[B7] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Over the course of this novel, its protagonist switches identities with Lieutenant Fakenham after mistakenly believing he has murdered John Quinn. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Luck of Barry Lyndon):
    Name this picaresque whose title character, whose real name is Redmond, loves his cousin Nora in the beginning of the novel, but has wooed and married a countess who lives in Hackton Castle by the end.
  Part 2 (ans: William Makepeace Thackeray):
    The Luck of Barry Lyndon is by this English Victorian novelist who contrasted Amanda Sedley with Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair.
  Part 3 (ans: Rawdon Crawley [or Rawdon Crawley; prompt on just "Crawley"]):
    In Vanity Fair, Becky marries this vain cavalry officer, the son of Sir Pitt, but carries on with many men, including the Marquis of Steyne, behind his back.

[B8] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While serving as a spy for Frederick the Great during the Seven Years' War, this character encounters his uncle Chevalier Ballybarry, who teaches him to be a conman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barry Lyndon [accept either]):
    Name this character who later wins a seat in the Irish parliament before winding up in Fleet Prison.
  Part 2 (ans: William Makepeace Thackeray):
    This British novelist wrote The Luck of Barry Lyndon. His other works include Henry Esmond and one in which Captain Dobbin marries the widow of George Osborne, who died at Waterloo.
  Part 3 (ans: Vanity Fair):
    This is the aforementioned Thackeray novel, which details the lives of Amelia Sedley and her friend Becky Sharp, starting with their time together at Miss Pinkerton's academy.
