=== STOCK CLUES: Kundera ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 54 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - This author described modernity as a series of "terminal paradoxes" in a book chapter examining "The Depreciated Legacy of Cervantes." This author discussed the "playful transcription" of his Diderot-inspired play Jacques and his Master in a book titled for Max Brod's betrayal of Kafka, Testaments Betrayed.
  - Borrowing a concept from Mikhail Bakhtin, this author championed the "polyphony" in the Hermann Broch novel The Sleepwalkers.
  - In his book The Art of the Novel, this author called for structuring novels in seven parts, which he did for a novel in which Ludvik writes on a postcard, "Optimism is the opium of the people!" Another novel by this author begins by discussing Nietzsche's concept of eternal return.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - A character created by this author recalls when he was insulted by being labeled a "pseudo-Socrates." This author analyzed Edmund Husserl's line about the "crisis of European humanity" in a book in which he outlines 63 words he uses regularly.
  - The ideas of a philosopher informed a passage by this author about "The absolute absence of a burden." In a novel by this author, Krystina debates philosophy with a student who possesses "Litost." A Karl Marx quote inspired this author's line, "Optimism is the opium of the people." Nietzsche's theory of "eternal return" is discussed in a philosophical novel by this author in which Sabina has an affair with Tomas.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - Two travelers meet an innkeeper in a void as part of an "Homage to Diderot in Three Acts" by this author.
  - A self-insert of this author thinks of the name Agnes after seeing a woman wave at her swimming instructor in another novel.
  - This author wrote about how a Scandinavian publisher thought his novel The Farewell Party was pushing an anti-abortion message in an essay detailing his inspiration by Hermann Broch.
  - That essay lays out "sixty-three words" that this author found meaningful to his work and forms part of The Art of the Novel.
  - This author's expulsion from the Communist Party inspired a novel in which Ludvik declares that "optimism is the opium of mankind!", The Joke.
  - A section of a novel by this author defines "words misunderstood" between Franz and Sabina.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - This author complained that a monologue "had been broken up into many very short sentences" while lamenting the four earlier translations of his first novel. [PWR]
  - This author proposed that novels should have "architectonic clarity" and use polyphony in an essay collection that examines the works of authors like Cervantes, Musil, and Kafka. [PWR]
  - During a Moravian folk festival, Helena mistakenly attempts suicide with a bottle of laxatives in a novel by this author that describes her (*) affair with a man who sends a postcard reading "Optimism is the opium of the people!" In a novel by this author of The Art of the Novel, Tereza struggles with her husband Tomas's infidelity. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Joke and the 1968 Prague Spring in The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: castle [accept Castle Keep; accept The Castle or Das Schloss; prompt on keep; prompt on burrow or "Der Bau" until "The Burrow" is read by asking "what specific part of the burrow?"] ("Somewhere Behind" is an essay on Kafka from Milan Kundera's The Art of the Novel.)
  - The essay "Somewhere Behind" notes that one of these places provides the nickname of a Party headquarters building, which highlights modern life's resemblance to a certain author.
  - The narrator eats some flesh in [emphasize] a specific room named for one of these places after failing to identify the source of a persistent whistling at the end of the story "The Burrow." A resident of one of these places solicits a woman at a celebration that is put on by a village fire brigade in a novel in which the protagonist meets two nearly-identical servants from one of these places, both of whom he calls "Arthur." In that novel, a messenger named Barnabas relays letters from Klamm, a bureaucrat who lives in one of these places.
  - For 10 points, the land surveyor K. fails to gain access to what type of building in an unfinished Franz Kafka novel? [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera <GDC>
  - This author claims in one novel that 'Lyric poets generally come from homes run by women'.
  - A poet turns his girlfriend's brother who is attempting to flee the country into the police in a novel by this author.
  - In another novel by this author, an effort to revive a traditional 'Ride of the Kings' ceremony is interrupted by a motorcycle gang.
  - In that novel by this author, Helena fails in a suicide attempt because she takes laxatives rather than aspirin after she leaves her husband for a man who claims that 'optimism is the opium of the people'.
  - This author of Life is Elsewhere wrote a work in which Sabina wears her grandfather's bowler hat while having sex with Tomas.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - In a novel by this author, two characters on a date think that the ostriches at the zoo are warning them of something, and a character misinterprets his love interest's statement that she would "die" if they had sex and feels a sense of untranslatable shame.
  - That character meets a poet nicknamed Goethe (GUR-tuh) and tries to get with Kristyna in a section of a novel by this man, called "Litost." The protagonist of another novel by this author writes a letter to the editor comparing the communists to Oedipus and sleeps with a woman named Sabina who wears her grandfather's bowler hat; that protagonist named Tomas (toh-MAHSH) lives through the Prague Spring.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - In a novel by this writer, a woman describes folk songs as being "the leitmotiv of her existence." In that novel written by this author, the protagonist realizes that the woman shaving his face is an old acquaintance named Lucie Sebetka.
  - This author described the slow death of a dog from cancer in the final section of a novel in which a man compares the Communist Party to Oedipus.
  - The statement "Optimism is the opium of the people" is written on a postcard to Marketa in a novel by this author primarily narrated by Ludvik.
  - In this author's best-known novel, Tomas and Tereza move away from Prague.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech-French author of The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - This author created a folk band player who dies of a heart attack after hearing his son is riding motorcycles. [PWR]
  - The professor Voltaire hosts a gathering of poets in a story by this author that discusses his inability to translate the word litost. [PWR]
  - He created a character who writes (*) "optimism is the opium of the people" on a postcard as well as a novel consisting of seven unrelated vignettes.
  - The Joke and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting were written by - for 10 points - what author, who wrote about Tomas and Tereza in The Unbearable Lightness of Being? [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - In one novel by this author, Goethe converses with Hemingway and Rubens has an affair with Agnes. [PWR]
  - This author of Immortality also penned a work in which the thrashing of ostriches causes Tamina to phone her father. [PWR]
  - That novel by him tells seven intertwined stories, one of which describes a student of poetry whose love for (*) Kristyna is tempered by litost [LEE-toast]. [PWR]
  - Franz's divorce is followed shortly by Sabina's betrayal in another of this author's novels, which focuses on Tereza's troubled marriage with Tomas.
  - For 10 points, identify this Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - This author created serial tire-slasher Professor Avenarius in a novel featuring a celestial trial in which Paul Eluard, Rainer Maria Rilke, and Romain Rolland rule against the ghost of Goethe.
  - In one of this author's novels, a woman spits in the face of an engineer with whom she tries to have illicit sex after being reminded of an article comparing the Communists to Oedipus.
  - This author of Immortality described a Swiss professor named Franz who has a failed love affair with Sabina in a novel in which Tereza struggles with her marriage to the womanizer Tomas.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Milan Kundera
  - In a short story by this author, an atheist teacher pretends to be a believer to win Alice, but gets in trouble with the school authorities for his religiosity.
  - This author of "Eduard and God" created a character who stands naked in front of a mirror wearing only her father's bowler hat.
  - In one novel by this author of Laughable Loves, Helena is seduced by a scientist seeking revenge on her husband.
  - A postcard saying "Optimism is the opium of the people!" causes Ludvik Jahn to be expelled from Communist Party in another work by this man.
  - A dog named Karenin dies even after his tumor is removed in a novel by him in which Sabina has an affair with the surgeon Tomas, who is married to Tereza.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech author of The Joke and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, a couple roleplays as hitchhiker and driver in a sexual fantasy that ultimately destroys their relationship. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    Name this author. A professor loses his job after refusing to review an art historian's essay in a story this author collected in Laughable Loves.
  Part 2 (ans: The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelna lehkost byti]):
    Tomas's ("toe-MAHSH's") political positions cause him to lose his job and become a window cleaner in this Kundera novel.
  Part 3 (ans: solitude [accept Too Loud a Solitude or Prilis hlucna samota; accept "The Solitude of Latin America" or "La Soledad de America Latina"]):
    Automation replaces a Czech paper compactor's job in a Bohumil Hrabal novella titled for this concept. The "countless daily deaths" in Latin America are evoked in a Nobel Lecture named for this concept.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about Czech literature featuring composers, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelna lehkost byti] (by Milan Kundera)):
    This novel states that a "frown, an improbable mane, and a somber voice intoning 'Es muss sein!'" are all that remains of Beethoven. In this novel, Tomas considers "Es muss sein" when deciding whether to return to Prague.
  Part 2 (ans: Jaroslav Seifert):
    Mozart's journey to Prague is the subject of a collection of "Thirteen Rondels" by this poet. This author of the childlike collection Maminka compared the burning walls of a church to a blush at a first kiss in the poem "St George's Basilica."
  Part 3 (ans: Laurent Binet (The first novel is HhHH. Jiri Weil's novel is Mendelssohn is on the Roof.)):
    A novel by this French author draws from Jiri Weil's Czech novel in which Nazis remove Wagner's bust from the Prague opera because it had the biggest nose. This author fictionalized Roland Barthes' death in The Seventh Function of Language.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Disappointment with translations inspired this author to outline "Sixty-Three Words" central to his aesthetics in an essay from The Art of the Novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milan Kundera ):
    Name this author of a novel in which entries of a "Short Dictionary of Misunderstood Words" contrast the bowler hat-wearing artist Sabina and her lover Franz.
  Part 2 (ans: kitsch ):
    Kundera praised Hermann Broch's essay on this word, "Evil in the Value-System of Art." In The Unbearable Lightness of Being, it is defined as "the absolute denial of shit" and hated by Sabina.
  Part 3 (ans: nostalgia (Ignorance defines "nostalgia" using the Greek terms nostos 'homecoming' and algos 'pain.')):
    Kundera's Ignorance opens with an Odyssean etymology of this word's Greek roots. In a Mircea Cartarescu ("MEER-chay-uh ker-tuh-RESS-koo") novel titled in English for this feeling, the sight of a pink lighter triggers an "unbearable" form of it in the section "Mentardy."

[B4] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The introduction to the play Jacques and his Master connected the arrival of these vehicles to Dostoevsky's elevation of feeling above truth, prompting a riposte from Joseph Brodsky. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Russian tanks [or Soviet tanks; prompt on armored or combat vehicles]):
    Name these vehicles. A part-time waitress photographs women in "unbelievably short skirts" kissing random passersby in the streets to tease the drivers of these vehicles.
  Part 2 (ans: The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelna lehkost byti] (by Milan Kundera)):
    Tereza photographs the arrival of Russian tanks in Prague in this novel, whose author also used the tanks as a motif in The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
  Part 3 (ans: Mama [or Karel's mother; or Marketa's mother-in-law; prompt on mother or synonyms by asking "whose mother?"]):
    The narrator of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting notes that this character is right to care more about ripe pears than the invasion, since "tanks are perishable, pears are eternal." Part II of the novel is titled for this character, who almost walks in on Karel having sex with Marketa and Eva.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In The Book of Laughter and Forgetting, the Communists erase Clementis from a photograph, but forget to erase one of these objects that he had loaned to Gottwald. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hat [accept bowler hat]):
    Name this type of object, one of which is a "motif in the musical composition that is" the painter Sabina's life. Though Tomas finds this object erotic during sex, her lover Franz is confused by it.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    The Book of Laughter and Forgetting is by this Czech author, who created Sabina in The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
  Part 3 (ans: The Idiot (by Elif Batuman)):
    The "surplus hat" in the photograph baffles the protagonist of this novel, who reads The Book of Laughter and Forgetting to better understand her crush, Ivan, during her freshman year at Harvard.

[B6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, it is explained that the "absolute absence of burden" causes this quality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lightness [or lehkost; or legerete; or The Unbearable Lightness of Being; or Nesnesitelna Lehkost Byti; or L'insoutenable Legerete de L'etre; reject "light"]):
    Name this concept, which is presented as an opposition to Nietzsche's idea of eternal recurrence at the beginning of a novel. This is the first title noun of that novel, in which a woman who wears a bowler hat during sex represents it.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    The Unbearable Lightness of Being is a novel by this Czech author whose other philosophical novels include The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
  Part 3 (ans: immortality [or nesmrtelnost]):
    The narrative of a Kundera novel titled for this concept begins when the narrator sees a woman named Agnes waving at a swimming teacher. The second section of that novel discusses Goethe's relationship with Bettina.

[B7] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In Too Loud a Solitude, a novel written by an author from this country, the protagonist smuggles large amounts of books home from his job. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czechoslovakia [or Czech Republic; or Czechia] (The other novel is The Unbearable Lightness of Being by Milan Kundera.)):
    Name this country. In another novel written by an author from this country, the protagonist loses his job as a surgeon because of an editorial he wrote comparing the government to Oedipus.
  Part 2 (ans: Auto-da-Fe [or The Blinding; or Die Blendung; or The Tower of Babel] (by Elias Canetti.)):
    The protagonist of this novel, Herr Doktor Peter Kien, sleeps on a small divan so that his apartment has more room for his massive private library, which he believes is the largest in the city and values more than people.
  Part 3 (ans: Umberto Eco):
    Jorge of Burgos commits suicide by eating the poisoned pages of Aristotle's Poetics and setting a library on fire in this author's novel The Name of the Rose.

[B8] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The cover of this novel features Peter Hujar's wincing photograph Orgasmic Man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Little Life):
    Name this long 2015 novel by Hanya Yanigahara that follows a group of four male friends in New York, including the traumatized abuse victim Jude.
  Part 2 (ans: Bulgaria [or Republic of Bulgaria; or Republika Balgariya]):
    A Little Life was heralded as a "great gay novel" by Garth Greenwell, whose debut novel What Belongs to You is mainly set in this country. Miroslav Penkov, Alek Popov, and Maria Popova are authors from this country, whose horned kukeri costumes appear in the film Toni Erdmann.
  Part 3 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    A Village Voice review compared Georgi Gospodinov's Bulgarian novel The Physics of Sorrow to this author, but "with ADD and potty jokes." He wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being.

[B9] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's author compares the death of his father, who "worked on a big book about Beethoven's sonatas," to the grief of Tamina's failure to retrieve her diaries with her dead husband Pavel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of Laughter and Forgetting):
    Name this book, "a novel in the form of variations." The first and fourth sections of this book are both titled "Lost Letters," while the third and sixth are both called "The Angels."
  Part 2 (ans: Tomas [from The Unbearable Lightness of Being]):
    This character created by the author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting compares his love life to Beethoven's phrase Ess muss sein and uses it to justify returning to Prague to be with his wife Tereza.
  Part 3 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being.

[B10] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Due to their inclusion of erratic asides about events like the introduction of Barbie, the translator Gerald Turner compared the style of a novel titled for this place to a Twitter feed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Europe [accept Europeana or Europa]):
    Name this place that titles a 2001 novel subtitled 'a short history of the 20th century' by Patrik Ourednik. It also titles a 1997 Booker-nominated stream-of-consciousness Tim Parks novel about the neurotic Jerry Marlow.
  Part 2 (ans: The Good Soldier Svejk):
    Raymond Federman's review of Europeana describes Ourednik as the heir of this Jaroslav Hasek character, who is drafted into the Czech infantry despite showing up to the recruiting office in a wheelchair.
  Part 3 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    Ourednik is probably the second best-known Czech expat author living in France, after this author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being.

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some writers who wrote about writing, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This author's The Art of the Novel includes an interview with Christian Salmon in which he asserts that his novels "lie outside the aesthetic of the novel normally termed psychological." This author wrote a novel following Tomas and Tereza during the Prague Spring.
  Part 2 (ans: Mario Vargas Llosa ("YO-sa") [or Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa; prompt on partial surname] (The second novel is The War of the End of the World.)):
    Letters to a Young Novelist is a writing manual by this author who followed Silva and Lituma in the detective novel Who Killed Palomino Molero?. In another novel by this author, the Counselor gains religious followers in Brazil.
  Part 3 (ans: Stephen King):
    On Writing, a book by this author, claims that "most books about writing are filled with bullshit" and details how he writes 10 pages a day. This author wrote The Shining.

[B12] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Jaromil dedicates his life to poetry in this author's novel Life is Elsewhere. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    Name this author, who only received his Czech citizenship back in 2019 after previously being blacklisted there. He wrote the novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
  Part 2 (ans: seven):
    In The Art of the Novel, Kundera advocated structuring novels in this many parts, advice he has followed for all but one of his novels. The subtitle of his book The Curtain calls it "an essay in [this many] parts."
  Part 3 (ans: The Book of Laughter and Forgetting [or Kniha smichu a zapomneni]):
    This seven-part novel by Kundera is titled for two ways of dealing with life in occupied Prague. It begins with Mirek's arrest while destroying old love letters, prefiguring Tamina's later attempt to recover love letters.

[B13] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In "Where Europe Begins," the narrator discusses her grandmother's belief that travelling meant drinking foreign water and her trip from Japan to Moscow on the Trans-Siberian railroad. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yoko Tawada):
    Name this Japanese-German author of a book in which the matriarch is a circus performer who moves from Moscow to Canada, Memoirs of a Polar Bear.
  Part 2 (ans: Paul Celan):
    In an essay about this poet of "Death Fugue," Tawada writes about his use of seven words that are translated with the Japanese radical for "gate" in "Seven Roses Later."
  Part 3 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    Yoko Tawada and Paul Celan are both exophonic writers, or writers who do not write in their native language. This author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being is also exophonic, writing in French instead of his native Czech.

[B14] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Every paragraph in the first chapter of a novel by this author begins with "For thirty-five years now," and that phrase is repeated throughout that novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bohumil Hrabal):
    Name this Czech author of Too Loud a Solitude, a novel about a man named Hanta who obsessively saves books from being compacted. He wrote about the tribulations of a hotelier in I Served the King of England.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This Czech author wrote the novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
  Part 3 (ans: The Joke [or Zert]):
    A postcard that says "Optimism is the opium of mankind! A healthy spirit stinks of stupidity! Long live Trotsky!" is one of the titular things that ruins Ludvik's life in this Kundera novel, his first.

[B15] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In his seven-part essay The Curtain, this author claimed that Cervantes was the first writer to tear through the veil of pre-interpretation to reveal "life's prose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    Name this author of the critical work Testaments Betrayed, whose book The Art of the Novel discussed how authors like Hermann Broch, Robert Musil, and Witold Gombrowicz addressed the "terminal paradoxes" of modernity.
  Part 2 (ans: Franz Kafka):
    In Testaments Betrayed, Kundera criticizes the image Max Brod created of this author. Willa and Edwin Muir used the phrase "gigantic insect" to translate the word "Ungeziefer" in the first sentence of one of his novellas.
  Part 3 (ans: The Paris Review):
    The Art of the Novel includes the interview Kundera did for this magazine's Art of Fiction series. This magazine is headquartered in the city where Kundera lives and set his novel The Festival of Insignificance.

[B16] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A Tomb for Boris Davidovich gained attention throughout the western world when it was included in Philip Roth's initiative Writers from the Other Europe. For 10 points each, name some other authors whose books were highlighted in the series:
  Part 1 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    A doctor whose secret fertility treatment is to inject women with his own sperm is among the set of eight characters in a spa town in this man's novel The Farewell Waltz , which was featured in the series along with this man's collection Laughable Loves .
  Part 2 (ans: Tadeusz Borowski):
    The series also included this writer's book This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen .

[B17] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonists wonder whether giving their female dog a male name will turn her into a lesbian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Unbearable Lightness of Being):
    Name this novel about the owners of the dog Karenin, Tomas and Tereza, who live through the Prague Spring.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    The Unbearable Lightness of Being is a novel by this Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
  Part 3 (ans: es muss sein [or it must be]):
    A repeated theme in The Unbearable Lightness of Being is this three-word phrase from Beethoven's last string quartet which represents the inevitability of fate.

[B18] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After this dog dies of cancer, her owner imagines having the words "he gave birth to two rolls and a bee" put on her tombstone. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Karenin [do not accept or prompt on "Karenina"]):
    Name this dog owned by Tomas and Tereza in The Unbearable Lightness of Being. Despite being female, this dog is named for a fictional man whose wife has an affair with Count Vronsky.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    The Unbearable Lightness of Being is a novel by this Czech author of Immortality and The Joke.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis-Ferdinand Celine [or Louis-Ferdinand Destouches]):
    Kundera's collection Encounters contains an essay about a dog who dies from cancer in this author's novel Castle to Castle. In another of his novels, Leon Robinson is blinded by his own bomb while attempting to kill the Henrouilles' (on-ROO-ees') grandmother.

[B19] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is female but has a male name taken from a Russian novel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Karenin):
    Name this dog from a 1984 novel who befriends the pig Mefisto. As it dies of cancer in the book's final chapter, it appears to smile at its owners.
  Part 2 (ans: Tomas):
    Karenin is owned by Tereza, the photographer wife of this womanizing surgeon. He eventually moves away from Prague to the countryside to be with his wife.
  Part 3 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    Tomas, Tereza, and Karenin are all characters in this Czech author's The Unbearable Lightness of Being.

[B20] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One woman in this novel has a dream in which her husband makes her march around a pool with other naked women as they do knee-bends. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or Nesnesitelna lehkost byti]):
    Name this novel about Tomas and Tereza, who move to the countryside to escape Czech Communism.
  Part 2 (ans: The Book of Laughter and Forgetting):
    This other novel, divided into seven parts, includes the sections "Lost Letters" and "Litost." It includes the stories of Mirek, who destroys his letters to Zdena (zuh-DAY-nuh), and Tamina, who tries to get Bibi to retrieve her diaries.
  Part 3 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This Czech author of Immortality and The Joke wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.

[B21] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel predicts that under Communism, all of mankind will soon speak jerkish, a language developed to communicate with chimpanzees, and constantly thinks about Kafka throughout his affair with the sculptor Daria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Love and Garbage [or Laska a smeti]):
    Name this novel about a banned writer who is forced to take a menial job sweeping streets, the masterwork of Czech author Ivan Klima.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    Klima wrote Love and Garbage in response to the chauvinism he perceived in this author's novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
  Part 3 (ans: optimism [or optimismus, apparently]):
    Kundera himself satirized the oppressive Communist Czech regime in his novel The Joke, whose protagonist Ludvik Jahn proclaims this quality to be the "opium of the people" in a postcard he sends to a female classmate, an act that gets him expelled from his college.

[B22] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel, Franz removes one of these objects from Sabina before they make love. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bowler hat [prompt on "hat"]):
    Name this item of clothing that originally belonged to Sabina's grandfather, and represents her eroticism.
  Part 2 (ans: The Unbearable Lightness of Being [or L'Insoutenable legerete de l'etre; or Nesnesitelna lehkost byti]):
    Sabina's bowler hat appears in this novel set before, during, and after the Prague Spring. In this novel, Tereza names a puppy Karenin after a book that belongs to Tomas.
  Part 3 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This Czech author of The Joke wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being.

[B23] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The stage directions for Beckett's Waiting for Godot require all four major characters to be wearing one of these items of clothing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bowler hats [or bowlers; or derbys; prompt on "hats" or equivalents]):
    Identify these fashion items. Another literary example of them, inherited by Sabina from her father, becomes a sort of fetish object during her affair with Tomas in The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    The Unbearable Lightness of Being was written by this Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
  Part 3 (ans: the Western novel):
    Kundera's book The Curtain is a seven-part essay on the "history and value" of this subject. Hungarian critic Gyorgy Lukacs coined the term "transcendental homelessness" in his book on The History of this subject.

[B24] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character finds his wife Tereza a job as a photographer before they both have to flee the crushing of Prague Spring. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tomas):
    Name this surgeon who carries on an affair with Sabina in the novel The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This Czech author of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
  Part 3 (ans: optimism):
    In Kundera's novel The Joke, Ludvik writes on a light-hearted postcard that this trait "is the opium of the people," for which he gets drafted into years of hard labor.

[B25] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Richard Zenith has twice translated this work, which includes a mixture of prose, poetry, and fictional diary entries. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of Disquiet [or Livro do Desassossego: Composto por Bernardo Soares, ajudante de guarda-livros na cidade de Lisboa]):
    Identify this collection of posthumously assembled fragments by Fernando Pessoa, which he wrote while employing the persona of Bernardo Soares.
  Part 2 (ans: Milan Kundera):
    This author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being included a description of the erasure of Vladimir Clementis from a photograph in his The Book of Laughter of Forgetting.
  Part 3 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    This medieval French author described Reason, Rectitude, and Justice helping to build the title city in her The Book of the City of Ladies, which was a response to the misogynistic attitudes of The Romance of the Rose.
