=== STOCK CLUES: Elizabeth Bishop ===
Tossup questions: 22 found, 91 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 24 found, 71 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth [accept Elizabeth Barrett Browning or Elizabeth Bishop]
  - An author with this first name drew on the nursery rhyme "This is the House that Jack Built" in a poem that recounts Ezra Pound's confinement to an asylum. [PWR]
  - An author with this first name remembers "clear fond voices" that have joined "Heaven's undefiled" in a poem promising that she, "with the same heart, will answer and not wait". [PWR]
  - An author with this first name referenced her home of Casa Mariana as "one of three loved houses" in a poem remembering Alice Methfessel as "the joking voice, the gesture I love". [PWR]
  - An author with this first name imagines "the depth and breadth and (*) height my soul can reach" in a poem claiming to love "freely, as men strive for right". [PWR]
  - The author of the poetry collection Questions of Travel had this first name, which is shared by a poet who asked "How do I love thee?
  - Let me count the ways." For 10 points, give this first name of the American poet Bishop and the author of Sonnets from the Portuguese. [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop (The first line refers to "Objects & Apparitions," a translation of Octavio Paz by Bishop included in Geography III.)
  - A poem that this author reveals to be an Octavio Paz translation states, "Memory weaves, unweaves the echoes" and is dedicated to Joseph Cornell.
  - In a poem that this author dedicated to her aunt Grace Bulmer Bowers, the title animal "sniffs at the bus's hot hood" and has "an acrid / smell of gasoline." The speaker of a poem by this author describes "the kite sticks of the Southern Cross." That poem by this author of "The Moose" opens with a description of "the frail, illegal fire balloons" and is dedicated to Robert Lowell.
  - This author's collection Geography III includes a poem that ends, "though it may look like disaster" with the parenthetical "(Write it!)." For 10 points, name this author of "The Armadillo," who wrote "The art of losing isn't hard to master" in "One Art." [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 HAYLEE Packet (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop (The first line refers to A Miracle for Breakfast. The second line refers to Sestina. The third and fourth lines refer to The Armadillo.)
  - This author wrote that "some of us stood around, waiting for the miracle" in one of their poems.
  - In another poem by this author, the "grandmother sings to the marvelous stove" as a child draws houses with crayons.
  - Another poem by this author talks about the "kite sticks of the Southern Cross" where the (*) "frail, illegal fire balloons appear". [PWR]
  - That poem describes a "fist clenched ignorant against the sky" and is dedicated to Robert Lowell.
  - For 10 points, identify this poet who wrote that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in her poem "One Art". [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop (The first two poems are "The Map" and "Night City.")
  - This author describes how "The names of seashore towns run out to sea, / the names of cities cross the neighboring mountains" in a poem that opens "Land lies in water; it is shadowed green." This author observes a lit-up city as "bright turgid blood" and "green and luminous / silicate rivers" in a poem set at night in an overhead plane.
  - A collection by this poet opens with question-and-answer lessons from a 19th century textbook, such as "What is the (*) Earth? / The planet or body on which we live." In a poem by this author that repeats the date "February 1918," the speaker looks at photographs of a volcano and "horrifying" breasts while reading National Geographic in a dentist's office. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this poet whose collection Geography III contains "In the Waiting Room" and the villanelle "One Art." [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: "The Fish" (The first line describes a letter from Elizabeth Bishop to Marianne Moore.)
  - A poem with this title was called "a real 'trifle'" and "very bad... perhaps like Ernest Hemingway!" in a letter to a mentor who suggested revising a line about "breathing in." A poem with this title describes a cliffside as a "defiant edifice" with "all the physical features of / ac- / cident" and "All / external / marks of abuse." The speaker of a poem with this title admires a "five-haired beard of wisdom" and "brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper." One poem with this title describes its subjects "[wading] / through black jade," while another ends as oil spreads around a "little rented boat... filled up" with victory "until everything / was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!" For 10 points, Marianne Moore and Elizabeth Bishop both wrote poems with what title about an aquatic creature? [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop (The poem set at the dentist's office is "In the Waiting Room.")
  - A poem by this author, in which a young child draws houses with crayons and is spoken to by an almanac and a "Marvel Stove," reflects this poet's upbringing by a grandmother after this poet's mother was institutionalized. [PWR]
  - In a poem by this author, a child sees someone whom "Jack Frost had started to paint" and gives him a lily of the valley as he sits watched by a "stuffed loon." This poet wrote of seeing "a dead man slung on a pole" while reading (*) National Geographic in a poem set at the dentist's office with her Aunt Consuelo. [PWR]
  - While at Vassar, this poet met and befriended Marianne Moore.
  - This author of "Sestina" and "First Death in Nova Scotia" urged "accept the fluster of lost door keys, the hour badly spent" in a villanelle that includes the refrain "the art of losing isn't hard to master." For 10 points, name this poet of "One Art." [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 Logomachy (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - This poet got into an argument with a friend who complained about the vulgarity of this poet's use of the term "water-closet" in a poem describing a statue of Christ and St. [PWR]
  - Peter with a rooster. [PWR]
  - This author wrote that everything in the Bible is "only connected by 'and' and 'and'" in the poem "Over 2,000 Illustrations and a Complete Concordance." In another poem by this author, someone sends a message to "high-strung (*) automobiles" by arranging "rows of cans" to spell "ESSO-SO-SO-SO." A typo for the word "mammoth" inspired the poem "The Man-Moth" from her collection North & South. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, what poet of "Filling Station" wrote that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in her poem "One Art"? [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop Note to players: We're looking for a type of place and a city, such as "landfills in Helsinki."
  - This author translated some of the work of a poet who said the "great lesson" of this author's work is "the enormous power of reticence." This author spent years translating Alice Brant's diary of life as a young girl in a diamond mining town, published as The Diary of Helena Morley. [PWR]
  - This poet incorporated her translation of Octavio Paz's "Objects & Apparitions" into her last collection, without mentioning that it was a translation until the end of the poem. [PWR]
  - Scholars often link this poet's translation of the story "The (*) Smallest Woman in the World" to her fear of serving as an imperialist via her translations of literature from a country where she lived with Lota de Macedo Soares [LOH-tah day mah-SAY-doo SWAH-reese].
  - This poet translated works by Carlos Drummond de Andrade and Clarice Lispector during her time in Brazil, which inspired some of the poems in Questions of Travel.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "One Art." [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - One poem by this author describes a subway-riding animal who "nervously begins to scale the faces of the buildings" and drops a tear "pure enough to drink"; that poem was inspired by a newspaper misprint.
  - Another poem by this author describes objects "rising toward a saint" that "fill with light / that comes and goes, like hearts." In a poem by this author of "The Man-Moth," the narrator sees an animal with "a five-haired beard of wisdom" and observes oil spilling "until everything / was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!" This author described a baby rabbit and "a weak mailed fist / clenched ignorant against the sky" against a background of fire balloons.
  - This author of "The Fish" and "The Armadillo" began a villanelle  "the art of losing isn't hard to master." For 10 points, name this poet of "One Art." [GIVE]

[T10] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - This author says "but for life we'll not be rid / of the leaves' fossils" in a poem for the deceased Margaret Miller. [PWR]
  - That poem, "Quai d'Orleans,"  was written after a trip to France with some classmates, with whom this author founded the journal Con Spirito at Vassar College.
  - A poem by this author remarks on the "kite sticks of the Southern Cross" and on how an "ancient owls' nest must have burned," before observing the "glistening" title (*) animal flee amidst a "weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky". [PWR]
  - That poem by this author, which describes "illegal fire balloons" climbing a mountain outside Rio de Janeiro, is dedicated to Robert Lowell and is from Questions of Travel.
  - For 10 points, what poet of "The Armadillo" wrote "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in "One Art"? [GIVE]

[T11] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - In one poem by this author, a man exclaims "if only he had been a woman!" about a companion who dies of measles and had "a pretty body".
  - That man mentions having "fifty-two/ miserable, small volcanoes I could climb".
  - "Some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent" are mentioned in another poem by this author, which also contains the parenthetical command "Write It!" This author included that poem, as well as "Crusoe in England", in Geography III (three).
  - A certain action is repeatedly proclaimed not to be a "disaster" in a 19-line piece by this poet which advises the reader to "accept the fluster" of misplaced door keys.
  - For 10 points, name this American poet who asserted that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in her villanelle "One Art." [GIVE]

[T12] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Friday [accept Vendredi. The first clue comes from Elizabeth Bishop's "Crusoe in England"]
  - A poem comments that this literary character 'was nice.
  - We were friends.
  - If only he had been a woman!' This character's name is paired with 'the other island' in the title of Michel Tournier's first novel.
  - This character has had his tongue cut out in a novel in which Susan Barton attempts to find her kidnapped daughter.
  - In another novel, a prisoner rescued from a canoe sailing to shore turns out to be this character's father.
  - In that novel, this character draws parallels between the Christian god and his own, Benamuckee, and is taught to call another man 'master' after being rescued from cannibals.
  - For 10 points, name this companion of Robinson Crusoe, named for a day of the week. [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - One of this author's poems describes a row of cans that softly say "ESSO-SO-SO-SO" to "high-strung automobiles" before observing "somebody loves us all." In another poem by this author, victory fills up a "little rented boat" until everything becomes "rainbow, rainbow, rainbow," after the speaker sees an animal with "a five-haired beard of wisdom trailing from his aching jaw." This poet of "Filling Station" spent nearly two decades living in Brazil, which inspired her collection Questions of Travel.
  - A villanelle by this poet advises the reader to "practice losing farther, losing faster" and repeats the line "the art of losing isn't hard to master." For 10 points, name this 20th-century American poet of "The Fish" and "One Art." [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - This poet wrote of pictures of the British royal family and a stuffed loon watching over the funeral of cousin Arthur. [PWR]
  - In another work, this writer begged a friend from New York City to "please come flying". [PWR]
  - This author of First Death in Nova Scotia and (+) Invitation to Miss Marianne Moore wrote of a grandmother hiding her tears while a girl draws with crayons in a kitchen in Sestina.
  - In one work, a baby rabbit and owls scatter after an (*) "illegal fire balloon" hits a cliff, and that poem ends with the image of a "weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky". [PWR]
  - This poet decided "some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent/ I miss them, but it wasn't a disaster" in a villanelle that repeats "The art of losing isn't hard to master".
  - For ten points, name this poet of The Armadillo and One Art. [GIVE]

[T15] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop and Marianne Moore
  - One of these two authors was horrified at the mention of a "water-closet" in the initial draft of a poem that the other author set "At four o'clock / in the gun-metal blue dark." One of these authors wrote that "we can... play at a game of constantly being wrong / with a priceless set of vocabularies," in a poem recounting her fateful first meeting with the other beside the stone lions of the New York Public Library. [PWR]
  - One of these authors is instructed to "please come flying" in that (*) "invitation" penned by the other.
  - These two poets observed that "All / external / marks of abuse are present on this / defiant edifice" and "his brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper" in poems about similar natural scenes in which they respectively declared that "the sea grows old in it" and "everything / was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!" For 10 points, name these two female American poets and close friends who both wrote poems titled "The Fish." [GIVE]

[T16] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - Correspondence between this woman and a male friend was adapted into a play by Sarah Ruhl and published in the collection Words in Air.
  - In a poem by this author, the speaker thinks back on his time on an island that had "fifty-two / miserable, small volcanoes" before calling his current location "another island / that doesn't seem like one"; she wrote that Friday died of measles in that poem, "Crusoe in England." In another poem, she wrote that she lost her "mother's watch" and "two cities, lovely ones" before saying, "I miss them, but it wasn't a disaster." This poet described Brazilians sending fire balloons into the sky in a poem dedicated to Robert Lowell.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "The Armadillo" who wrote that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in her villanelle "One Art." [GIVE]

[T17] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - A poem by this author states "Then I was back in it.
  - The War was on" after the speaker is disoriented by seeing "black naked women with necks wound round... with wire" in National Geographic.
  - A poem by this author concludes "Somebody embroidered the doily.
  - Somebody waters the plant...
  - Somebody loves us all" and opens "Oh, but it is dirty!" A poem by this author contains the parentheticals "the joking voice, a gesture I love" and (*) "Write it!" in its last stanza.
  - This poet's time in Brazil with her lover Lota Soares inspired a poem about "illegal fire balloons" and a villanelle that repeats "The art of losing isn't hard to master." For 10 points, name this poet of "In the Waiting Room," "The Armadillo," and "One Art." [GIVE]

[T18] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - One work by this poet begins "In the cold, cold parlor," and describes a stuffed loon, shot by Uncle Arthur, who "took his own counsel / on his white, frozen lake / the marble-topped table" of the title event.
  - In another poem, the narrator admires the "shapes like full-blown roses / stained and lost through age" displaying on an object whose "brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper." This author wrote the poem "First Death in Nova Scotia" while living in Brazil, where she carried on a tempestuous relationship with her (*) lover Lota de Mercedo Soares. [PWR]
  - Robert Lowell's "Skunk Hour" was dedicated to this woman, who described returning her catch after "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow" in one poem and asserted that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in another.
  - For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Fish" who wrote the villanelle "One Art." [GIVE]

[T19] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - This author describes goats "leaping up the cliffs / among the fog-soaked weeds and butter-and-eggs" in a poem that calls The Seven Wonders of the World "tired / and a touch familiar".
  - This author describes objects that are hard to tell apart from the stars or from Venus and Mars in a poem that concludes with the image of "a weak mailed fist / clenched ignorant against the sky". [PWR]
  - One poem by this author commands the reader to "Accept the fluster / of (*) lost door keys, the hour badly spent." This poet described an owl's nest burning after an illegal fire balloon crashes into it. [PWR]
  - One poem by this author of "Over 2,000 Illustrations and a Complete Concordance" describes a creature whose "brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper" and has five hooks in its mouth.
  - She declared: "The art of losing isn't hard to master" in her villanelle "One Art".
  - For 10 points, name this 20 th-century American poet of "The Armadillo" and "The Fish". [GIVE]

[T20] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - In one poem, this poet described the burning feeling of "cold dark deep and absolutely clear" water and observed, "it is like what we imagine knowledge to be." In another of her poems, two owls fly away from the conflagration caused by the crashing of an illegal fire balloon.
  - That poem concludes with the image of "a weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky." This poet of "At the Fishhouses" had a same-sex relationship with Lota de Macedo Soares in Brazil, which she wrote about in Questions of Travel.
  - This poet advised the reader to "practice losing farther, losing faster" in a poem about things whose loss "is no disaster." For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Armadillo" and "One Art." [GIVE]

[T21] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - She wrote a poem in which the place name "Glens Falls" is split between two lines, with only the final "s" in the second line.
  - Another poem from the same collection describes the corpse of a child which is "all white, like a doll that hadn't been painted yet." She also wrote a poem which contains the exclamation "Be careful with that match!" and says that "some comic books provide the only note of color" in the title location.
  - This author of "First Death in Nova Scotia" wrote a poem whose speaker reads National Geographic while waiting for Aunt Consuelo to finish her dentist appointment.
  - The speaker of another of her poems catches a "tremendous fish" but ultimately lets him go.
  - This author of "In the Waiting Room" and "The Fish" is perhaps best known for a poem which instructs the reader to "lose something every day" and "practice losing farther, losing faster." For 10 points, name this poet of "Filling Station" and "One Art." [GIVE]

[T22] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Elizabeth Bishop
  - One poem by this poet describes a creature who "thinks the moon is a small hole at the top of the sky" and who may give you his tear, "cool as from underground springs and pure enough to drink." Another of her poems describes the explosion of one of the "frail, illegal fire balloons" and concludes with the image of a "weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky." In one of her poems, an almanac says, "Time to plant tears," as the grandmother sings.
  - This poet of "The Man-Moth" and "The Armadillo" recalls, "some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent" in a villanelle beginning, "The art of losing isn't hard to master." For 10 points, identify this American poet of "Sestina" and "One Art." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author sarcastically claims that "It's natural the Boys should whoop it up for / so huge a phallic triumph" in a poem critical of the Apollo 11 mission. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]):
    Name this author of "Moon Landing," who asked the reader to "Pack up the moon and dismantle the sun" in the poem "Funeral Blues."
  Part 2 (ans: Archibald MacLeish):
    This poet wrote that "we stand here in the dusk, the cold, the silence" in his "Voyage to the Moon" for the New York Times. In a different work, this author claimed "a poem should be motionless in time / as the moon climbs."
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth [accept Elizabeth Alexander; accept Elizabeth Bishop]):
    A poet with this first name and the surname Alexander claimed the Apollo astronauts were "stranger / even than we are." This is the first name of the author of "One Art," which begins "The art of losing isn't hard to master."

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem partly titled for this place, the speaker turns to look at "glassy lights... in the fishing boats at anchor" with a friend who shares his name with the literary critic Ramon Fernandez. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Key West [accept "The Idea of Order at Key West"]):
    What place partly titles a poem whose speaker listens to "the single artificer of the world" who "sang beyond the genius of the sea?"
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop(The poem is "One Art.")):
    While living in Key West, this poet sent letters and a draft of her poem "The Fish" to her mentor Marianne Moore. This poet also wrote a poem that begins "the art of losing isn't hard to master."
  Part 3 (ans: Crane [accept Stephen Crane; accept Louise Crane]):
    Bishop lived in Key West with a partner who had this last name. An author with this last name included "In the Desert" in his collection The Black Riders and wrote The Red Badge of Courage.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Though one of these poets once said, "rhyme is dowdy," she frequently consulted the other when searching for rhymes for her translation of The Fables of La Fontaine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marianne Moore AND Elizabeth Bishop (Those poems are both titled "The Fish.")):
    Name these two poets. A poem by the elder one that opens "wade / through black jade" shares a title with a poem by the younger one that describes a creature whose "brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper."
  Part 2 (ans: enjambment):
    All of the rhymes in Moore's "The Fish" use this poetic technique in which a syntactic or semantic unit spills over one line onto another.
  Part 3 (ans: apocopated ("uh-POCK-uh-pated") rhyme [accept apocope ("uh-POCK-uh-pee")]):
    "The Fish" shows Moore's fondness for this rare type of rhyme, which pairs a one-syllable word with the stressed non-final syllable of a multisyllabic word. An example of this from the poem is the rhyme of "lack" with the "ac-" of "accident."

[B4] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem uses a "joking tone, a gesture [they] love" in its last stanza. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "One Art"):
    Name this poem. This poem progressively lists things such as "door keys", "my mother's watch", "two cities, lovely ones", "some realms I owned", "two rivers", and "a continent".
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    "One Art", published in Geography III, was written by this poet who refused to have her works published in all-female anthologies, as she wanted to be judged purely on her writing.
  Part 3 (ans: Lota de Macedo Soares ("SWAH-rez") [or Maria Carlota "Lota" Costallat de Macedo Soares]):
    The speaker's loss of "a continent" in "One Art" is thought to refer to Bishop's relationship with this landscaper designer and architect. This person was the dedicatee of Bishop's collection Questions of Travel, but committed suicide two years later.

[B5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In Clare Cavanagh's translation of a poem in this language titled "Map," the author claims to like the title objects "because they give no access to the vicious truth." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Polish [or polski] (The poets are Wislawa Szymborska and Czeslaw Milosz.)):
    Name this language used by the Nobel-Prize-winning poet of the collections Salt and Nothing Twice. Robert Hass translated "A Song on the End of the World" from this language to English.
  Part 2 (ans: Adam Zagajewski ("zah-gah-YEV-skee")):
    Cavanagh's translation of this author's poem "Try to Praise the Mutilated World" was printed on the back page of The New Yorker after 9/11. This member of Poland's Generation of '68 died in 2021.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    Cavanagh's essay "The Art of Losing" pushes back against the desire for literal translations using the example of a Polish translation of this American poet's villanelle "One Art."

[B6] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about American poet Mary Szybist:
  Part 1 (ans: a puzzle [accept "Girls Overheard Assembling a Puzzle."]):
    The speaker relates how she'd say "a zillion yeses" for the chance to "pick an X-ray to float on" in a Szybist abecedarian titled for one of these objects. A boy waits for one of these objects that "never keeps coming" in James Merrill's poem Lost in Translation.
  Part 2 (ans: The Virgin Mary):
    Szybist won the 2013 National Book Award for her collection Incardanine, which is based off the life of this woman. This biblical woman is told to "step back from the camera" in Szybist's poem "Annunciation Overheard from the Kitchen."
  Part 3 (ans: fish (That poem is by Elizabeth Bishop.)):
    A Szybist poem imagines how a girl's "loose curls float...as she leans in" to eat the eyes of one of these animals. Another poem about one of these animals describes how "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!"

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem poking fun at the frequent memorization of this poem's first lines opens "Love's the boy stood on the burning deck / trying to recite `The boy stood on the burning deck.'" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Casabianca"):
    Name this poem by Felicia Hemans about a boy who bravely dies with a burning ship.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    That later update to "Casabianca" is by this poet. "Victory filled up / the little rented boat" until "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!" in this poet's poem "The Fish."
  Part 3 (ans: Alfred, Lord Tennyson):
    The title "Gentleman of Shalott" quotes "Half is enough" in a Bishop poem, referencing the line "I am half sick of shadows" from this poet's "The Lady of Shalott." This poet wrote about a cavalry "Plunged in the battery-smoke" in "The Charge of the Light Brigade."

[B8] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In the second section of this poem, Death itself declares: "Some find me a sword; some the flange and the rail; flame, fang, or flood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Wreck of the Deutschland" [by Gerard Manley Hopkins]):
    Name this poem that notes that "Nor rescue, only rocket and lightship, shone" when "five Franciscan nuns" fleeing anti-Catholic laws in Germany drowned during the title event.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    This author was haunted by the portentous "anvil-ding" mentioned in Hopkins's "The Wreck of the Deutschland," prompting her to repeat the sound "Clang" throughout her long prose poem about her mother's mental breakdown, "In the Village."
  Part 3 (ans: Easter [or "let him easter in us"; or "Easter, 1916"]):
    Bishop referred to her mother by the name of this holiday in "In the Village," in reference to Hopkins's use of it as a verb in "The Wreck of the Deutschland." W.B. Yeats commemorated an Irish uprising on this holiday in 1916.

[B9] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a review of this book, Donald Hall called it a "horror" and accused its author of being a "cannibal-poet" who dined off "his own body and that of his family" to write it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Dolphin):
    Name this 1973 book which won its author the 1974 Pulitzer Prize. This sonnet sequence describes the author's decision to spurn his wife Elizabeth Hardwick for the socialite Lady Caroline Blackwood.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    This poet noted "art just isn't worth that much," in a rebuke of Robert Lowell for writing about his personal affairs in The Dolphin. This author's villanelle "One Art" proclaims "the art of losing isn't hard to master."
  Part 3 (ans: Lord Weary's Castle):
    Robert Lowell's other wife Jean Stafford helped him publish this second poetry collection by him, whose entries include "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket." This book's title refers to a ballad about the stonemason Lamkin, who kills a ruler after he is not compensated for building the title fortification.

[B10] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these things is used to help Leo Irving after he suffers heartbreak because of an Italian girl, who had modeled for his paintings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: vibrators [or Chattanooga vibrators; prompt on sex toys]):
    Name these things. Mrs. Daldry and Mrs. Givings sneak into the "operating theater" while Dr. Givings is out so that they can try using one of these things in a play subtitled for them, which is set "hovering at the dawn of electricity."
  Part 2 (ans: Madame Bovary):
    After seeing his wife with a hand on Leo's cheek in the play In the Next Room (or The Vibrator Play), Dr. Givings cites this book to explain his feelings about cheating. When his wife notes that its author, Gustave Flaubert, wasn't a woman, Dr. Givings retorts that he was a Frenchman, which is "much the same thing."
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop AND Robert Lowell [prompt on partial answers] (The poem is "The Armadillo.")):
    In addition to writing In the Next Room, Sarah Ruhl wrote a play adapted from the correspondence between these two poets. One of them dedicated a poem to the other one describing "frail, illegal fire balloons."

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: One of these two authors encouraged the other not to publish his ex-wife's private letters in his collection The Dolphin, stating "art just isn't worth that much." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Lowell AND Elizabeth Bishop [accept in either order; accept Robert Trail Spence Lowell IV in place of "Robert Lowell"]):
    Name both of these authors whose 30-year correspondence is collected in the book Words in Air. One of these authors addressed the poem "The Armadillo" to the other, while the other addressed a poem containing the line "We've lost our summer millionaire" to the former.
  Part 2 (ans: Randall Jarrell):
    Lowell and Bishop were introduced by this author. The speaker "woke to black flack and the nightmare fighters" in this author's poem "The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner."
  Part 3 (ans: American Civil War [or United States Civil War; or US Civil War]):
    Lowell's own war poetry includes a poem for the dead of this war's winning side that depicts him visiting a Boston memorial. Lowell's mentor Allen Tate wrote "Ode to the Confederate Dead" about a graveyard for this war's losing side.

[B12] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet with this surname stated that he'd never forget a stone in the title location for the lifetime of his "fatigued retinas" in his poem "In the Middle of the Road." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: de Andrade ("jee on-DRAH-jee") [accept Carlos Drummond de Andrade or Mario de Andrade]):
    Give this surname of the poet of a "Friendly Song" once printed on some Brazilian currency. An unrelated poet of this surname pioneered Brazilian modernism through his collection Hallucinated City and his novel Macunaima ("ma-koo-na-EE-muh").
  Part 2 (ans: Portuguese [or Brazilian Portuguese; or Portugues]):
    Although Mario de Andrade used some Tupi slang in Macunaima, both de Andrades wrote in this primary language of Brazil.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    Despite admitting that she spoke Portuguese "like a dog," this poet of "The Armadillo" translated much of Carlos Drummond de Andrade's poetry into English. She repeated the line "The art of losing isn't hard to master" in the villanelle "One Art."

[B13] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The italicized phrase "Write It!" punctuates the last line of this poem where the speaker says things like losing keys and cities is "no disaster". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "One Art"):
    Name this villanelle that repeats "The art of losing isn't hard to master".
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    "One Art" is by this poet who dedicated her poem "The Armadillo" to her long-time friend Robert Lowell. Like Marianne Moore, she has a poem titled "The Fish."
  Part 3 (ans: "First Death In Nova Scotia"):
    In this poem by Bishop, the first stanza mentions royals "Edward, Prince of Wales" and "King George and Queen Mary". This poem memorializes "Uncle Arthur" who the speaker thinks died too young.

[B14] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author opens 'I can hear little clicks inside my dream. / Night drips its silver tap / down the back. / At 4 A.M. I wake.' For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anne Carson):
    Name this author, who wrote a verse novel whose protagonist Geryon falls in love with Herakles, who leaves him, only for the two to meet again on a trip to Argentina.
  Part 2 (ans: Canada):
    Anne Carson is a poet and classicist from this country. Lucy Maud Montgomery set a series of works about Anne of Green Gables on Prince Edward Island in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    This poet grew up in Nova Scotia, Canada after the death of her parents. This poet wrote of a 'dirty' filling station in one work and also wrote the poem Armadillo.

[B15] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes holding a flashlight to the title character's eye and seeing "all dark pupil, an entire night itself" before "one tear, his only possession" slips from it. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: "The Man Moth"(by Elizabeth Bishop)):
    Name this poem that begins "Here, above, [where] cracks in the buildings are filled with battered moonlight". This poem's title figure "emerges from an opening under the edge of one of the sidewalks" when he "pays his rare... visits to the surface."
  Part 2 (ans: the soul):
    A Mary Oliver poem asks if this thing "is it tender and breakable, like the wings of a moth in the beak of the owl?" An Emily Dickinson poem calls hope as "a thing with feathers" that perches in this place.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Dillard):
    This American author described seeing a moth fly into a candle at her camp in the Blue Ridge Mountains in her essay "The Death of the Moth." Her best-known book describes a year she spent near the title body of water in Roanoke, Virginia.

[B16] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet may have coined the phrase 'stately home' in the opening line of her poem The Homes of England. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Felicia Dorothea Hemans):
    Name this poet who opened her poem "Casabianca" with the lines 'The boy stood on the burning deck / Whence all but he had fled; / The flame that lit the battle's wreck / Shone round him o'er the dead.'
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    This American poet described how 'Love's the boy stood on the burning deck trying to recite "The boy stood on/the burning deck"' in her poem "Casabianca" who described how 'the art of losing isn't hard to master' in another poem.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Butler):
    Ernest thinks strange things in this author's novel The Way of All Flesh. This author of Erewhon shares his first and last names with the poet of Hudibras.

[B17] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about Kipling's poetry:
  Part 1 (ans: "Recessional"):
    Kipling used this poem to contribute to the celebrations of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee. Its five stanzas end with the refrain "Lest we forget- lest we forget!"
  Part 2 (ans: Sestina [the second poem is "Sestina," by Elizabeth Bishop]):
    In an example of this type of poem, titled "of the Tramp-Royal," Kipling claimed to have liked all of the experiences of leading a varied life. A poem of this type by a different author begins with the line "September rain falls on the house" and mentions an almanac one time each stanza.

[B18] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A pile of comic books provides the only "note of color" in the title location of this poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Filling Station"):
    Name this poem that opens "Oh, but it is dirty!" and speculates about the people who live in the title place, closing with the assertion, "Somebody loves us all."
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    "Filling Station" is by this author of "One Art," who wrote "The Armadillo" for her friend Robert Lowell.
  Part 3 (ans: losing [prompt on synonyms or alternate forms]):
    A repeated line in "One Art" states that the art of this action isn't hard to master, and advises the addressee to practice this skill "farther" and "faster."

[B19] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote about the horror of seeing women's breasts "in the National Geographic" while in the waiting room of a dentist's office with Aunt Consuelo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    Name this poet who worked for 20 years on a poem about an animal that darts in front of a bus and leaves a "dim smell" in the woods titled "The Moose."
  Part 2 (ans: villanelle):
    Bishop used this 19-line poetic form in her work "One Art," which states "the art of losing isn't hard to master."
  Part 3 (ans: Massachusetts):
    Bishop set many of her poems like "In The Waiting Room" in this home state where she grew up in Worcester. Emily Dickinson was born in its city of Amherst.

[B20] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This literal fascist who tried to once convince Benito Mussolini of his economic ideas is better known for poems like Hugh Selwyn Mauberley. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ezra Pound):
    Name this modernist American poet whose 120-section epic The Cantos was left unfinished at his death.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    After producing radio propaganda for the Italian government, Pound was arrested for treason and institutionalized. This other poet described Pound "in the house of Bedlam" in "Visits to St. Elizabeths" and wrote that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in the villanelle "One Art."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Armadillo"):
    This other poem by Bishop is dedicated to Robert Lowell; it describes the title animal amidst a fireworks display, ending, "Too pretty, dreamlike mimicry!/ O falling fire and piercing cry/ and panic and a weak mailed fist/ clenched ignorant against the sky!"

[B21] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This play ends with an elderly conductor tipping his hat at Lula. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dutchman):
    Name this Amiri Baraka play set in a New York Subway car in which Lula stabs Clay in the heart after verbally sparring with him.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    A strange creature called the Man-Moth rides the Subway in a poem by this poet. She wrote "The Art of losing isn't hard to master" in "One Art."
  Part 3 (ans: Poetry in Motion):
    This program, which eventually spread to hundreds of cities, began in 1992 with an excerpt of Walt Whitman's "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" displayed on a New York Subway car.

[B22] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Science
     Leadin: At one point, the speaker of this poem recalls losing her mother's watch, before remarking "my last, or next-to-last, of three loved houses went." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "One Art"):
    Name this villanelle whose speaker frequently claims "The art of losing isn't hard to master."
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    "One Art" was written by this American poet, who authored the collection North & South. She described the title creature's "weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky!" in the poem "The Armadillo."
  Part 3 (ans: a fish):
    Bishop wrote a poem about one catching of these creatures that had "brown skin hung in strips like ancient wallpaper." The speaker of that poem recalls seeing this creature's gills "breathing in the terrible oxygen" before ultimately letting it go.

[B23] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet repeated the image of "a Jew in a newspaper hat / that dances weeping down the ward" in a poem that ends every stanza by describing the "man that lies in the house of Bedlam." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    Name this poet who based "Visits to St. Elizabeth" on trips to Ezra Pound's asylum. This poet began onework, "Oh, but it is dirty!" and ended another poem with a stanza declaring, "too pretty, dreamlike mimicry!"
  Part 2 (ans: "One Art"):
    Elizabeth Bishop wrote this villanelle whose speaker uses four diferent lines ending with the word "disaster" and repeats a refrain that asserts "losing isn't hard to master."
  Part 3 (ans: "In the Waiting Room"):
    In this Bishop poemthe speaker recalls a "sensation of falling of the round, turning world" as a six-year old girl while she was looking at the cover of National Geographic. This poem is set during the speaker's visit to the dentist's ofce with her aunt Consuelo in Worchester, Massachusetts.

[B24] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The main character of this poem is frightened of a third rail during his nightly backwards voyages through "artificial tunnels." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Man-Moth"):
    Name this poem, whose title character "thinks the moon is a small hole at the top of the sky" and climbs skyscrapers in order to investigate it. Its title was inspired by a newspaper misprint.
  Part 2 (ans: Elizabeth Bishop):
    "The Man-Moth" was written by this American poet of "In the Waiting Room" and "Filling Station," who spent many years living in Brazil.
  Part 3 (ans: sestinas):
    Elizabeth Bishop wrote one of these poems about a sorrowful grandmother and her grandchild sitting in a kitchen. This restrictive poetic form consists of an ending three-line tercet and six six-line stanzas whose lines end with the same six words.
