=== STOCK CLUES: Bouguereau ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The American-born salon painter Elizabeth Jane Gardner married this painter and adopted his typical subjects, stating that she'd "rather be known as the best imitator of [this man] than be nobody." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William-Adolphe Bouguereau):
    Name this French painter, a contemporary of Alexandre Cabanel, whose 1896 work The Wave is exemplary of one of his favored genres, namely, nude women on the seashore.
  Part 2 (ans: academic art [or academism; or academicism; accept word forms of academic or academism or academicism such as academists]):
    Bouguereau and Cabanel were prominent members of this largely French artistic movement, named for the formal schools where most of its members studied and taught..
  Part 3 (ans: L'art pompier [prompt on "fireman art"]):
    Critics savaged academism by labeling it as this kind of "art." The use of this French term derived from the fact that certain public safety officials in France wore headgear similar to the Attic helmets shown in academic art.

[B2] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's painting of Adam and Eve discovering the body of Abel, First Mourning, was painted shortly after the death of his son. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William-Adolphe Bouguereau):
    Identify this Academic painter, who used the same young model in his paintings The Shepherdess and The Bohemian.
  Part 2 (ans: Salon des Refuses):
    Bouguereau and Alexandre Cabanel refused to allow the Impressionists to exhibit their works in the Paris Salon of 1863, leading to the establishment of this alternative salon that embraced excluded artists.
  Part 3 (ans: The Birth of Venus [or La Naissance de Venus]):
    Cabanel and Bouguereau both produced paintings on this subject. Traditionally depicting the title goddess standing on a clam shell, as in Botticelli's version, Cabanel's version shows her lying on a bed of foam and gazing sleepily at the viewer.

[B3] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Sheep graze in the background as the title girl looks over her shoulder at the viewer in this artist's The Young Shepherdess. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William-Adolphe Bouguereau):
    Name this artist who also painted innocent-looking girls in Alone in the World and The Knitting Girl. In a mythical scene by this artist, several putti recline atop a porpoise as its central nude figure stands atop a clam shell.
  Part 2 (ans: academic art [accept academism or academicism]):
    Bouguereau produced most of his works in this style, which focused on values and standards instilled by formal institutes of art.
  Part 3 (ans: Romanticism [accept Romantic art]):
    Academic art bridged neoclassicism with this other broad artistic movement, which emphasized strong emotion and nature. Caspar David Friedrich's Wanderer Above the Sea of Fog exemplifies this movement.

[B4] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a shawled, barefoot girl sitting on a concrete bench with a violin on her lap in a painting titled The Bohemian. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William-Adolphe Bouguereau):
    Name this artist who won the Prix de Rome at the age of 25 with Zenobia Found by Shepherds on the Banks of the Araxes and showed the title goddess in the middle of the ocean surrounded by a crowd of adoring nymphs and centaurs in his 1879 painting The Birth of Venus.
  Part 2 (ans: academic art [or academicism; or academism]):
    Bouguereau was a leading practitioner of this style of art, which favored idealized, allegorical subjects and the polished style taught in formal art training. Other artists of this style include Paul Delaroche and Jean-Leon Gerome.
  Part 3 (ans: l'art pompier [or pompier art]):
    Critics used this derisive term, literally translating "freman art," for academic painting, whose name refers to the classical Greek helmets that characters always wear in allegories or history paintings.

[B5] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of this man's works depicts three women sitting on a cloud and engaging in La Danse, while another shows four naked women dragging a faun into a pool. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: William-Adolphe Bouguereau):
    Name this French Academic painter who created Nymphs and Satyr, and did portraits of young gypsy girls with titles like The Young Shepherdess, The Bohemian, and Alone in the World.
  Part 2 (ans: The Birth of Venus [or La Naissance de Venus]):
    A stream of cupids appears in the sky in this Bouguereau work, which has two more cupids caress and hold the reins of a dolphin at the bottom. Two mermen welcome the title red-haired goddess, who stands on a conch shell, just like in the way-more famous painting by this name which is in the Uffizi.
  Part 3 (ans: Pierre-Cecile Puvis de Chavannes):
    This other French painter of the late 19th century shows a baby dying on a barren shore in The Poor Fisherman and created murals for the Pantheon in Paris. Toulouse-Lautrec painted a spoof of this artist's The Sacred Grove.
