=== STOCK CLUES: Annibale Carracci ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 17 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: caricatures [prompt on cartoons or drawings] (Annibale Carracci is said to have invented the caricature.) Note to players: Specific answer required.
  - These images are generally said to have been invented by a 16th-century painter from Bologna who said that the task of creating these images was exactly the same as the task of the classical artist. [PWR]
  - One of these images depicts a bunch of people at a table snoring as Samuel Taylor Coleridge talks, and appears in the collection The Poets' Corner. [PWR]
  - More than a thousand of these images, many of them drawn by Alex Gard, adorn the walls of (*) Sardi's restaurant in Manhattan. [PWR]
  - Aubrey Beardsley is one of the "twenty-five gentlemen" depicted in a book that established Max Beerbohm's reputation as a creator of these images.
  - In a satirical French magazine named after these images, Louis-Philippe was often depicted as a pear.
  - For 10 points, name these drawings that exaggerate people's features for comic effect. [GIVE]

[T2] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi] (The horse buttocks-containing painting, Conversion on the Way to Damascus, was aimed at a work of Annibale Carracci.)
  - This artist prepended the letter "f" to his name in the only signature in his oeuvre, which is visible in a pool of blood in a painting that was executed as a passage fee for the Knights of Malta.
  - This artist had to repaint one work to show a bearded man kneeling on a stool in response to complaints that he'd placed a dirty foot too close to the altar. [PWR]
  - This artist mocked a rival by depicting a horse's buttocks facing toward that rival's work in his painting for the Cerasi  Chapel. [PWR]
  - This artist of The (*) Beheading of Saint John the Baptist fled Rome after killing a man in a street fight.
  - He depicted a saint's "inspiration" in one of his works for the Contarelli Chapel, another of which depicts a group of men huddled around a table as a bright light illuminates a man being chosen as Jesus's disciple.
  - For 10 points, name this user of chiaroscuro  who painted The Calling of Saint Matthew. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Annibale Carracci [do not accept any other Carraccis]
  - One of this man's paintings includes a depiction of Luxuria, or Vice, with her back to the viewer, arranged in a pose that was borrowed by Caravaggio for the violin-playing angel in a painting created for the Palazzo Doria Pamphilj.
  - This artist painted The Choice of Hercules for the camerino of a building that also contains a series by this man consisting of an early example of quadri riportati depicting scenes from Ovid.
  - Pietro Aldobrandini commissioned a lunette from this man in which a ferryman crosses a river next to the small figures of Joseph and Mary.
  - The Triumph of Bacchus and Ariadne is the center panel of this man's fresco cycle in the Farnese Gallery, The Loves of the Gods.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian artist of Domine, Quo Vadis? and Landscape with the Flight into Egypt, who led the Bolognese school alongside his cousin Ludovico and brother Agostino. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Like many contemporaries, this artist bemoaned Giorgio Vasari's ignorance in the marginalia of his copy of the Lives. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: El Greco [or Domenikos Theotokopoulos; prompt on "the Greek"]):
    Name this Mannerist. Trained as an icon painter, this artist is known for vividly colored works like View of Toledo.
  Part 2 (ans: Federico Zuccaro [or Federico Zuccari]):
    In his copy, this Mannerist grumbled about Vasari praising Michelangelo more than Raphael. This artist finished Vasari's fresco for the Florence Cathedral's dome and followed El Greco in a series of failed commissions for Philip II's Escorial ("ess-kor-YAHL").
  Part 3 (ans: Carracci family [accept Annibale Carracci] (It is unclear which of the Carracci wrote the comment.)):
    A member of this Bolognese family called Vasari a "shitface" in the margin of his copy. Illusionistic quadro riportato was used by a member of this family in a ceiling fresco cycle on The Loves of the Gods for the Palazzo Farnese ("far-NAY-zay").

[B2] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about British art heists, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: a golden toilet):
    In 2019, thieves stole a golden object of this type from Blenheim Palace by Maurizio Cattelan. Cattelan designed his work to look like a real Kohler example of these objects, complete with functional plumbing.
  Part 2 (ans: Annibale Carracci ("ahn-NEE-bah-lay ka-RACH-chee") (The painting is The Butcher's Shop.)):
    A year later, thieves stole this artist's 1580 painting A Boy Drinking from the Christ Church Picture Gallery. C. D. Dickerson's book Raw Painting examined this artist's painting of two men posed in front of slabs of meat.
  Part 3 (ans: Barbara Hepworth [or Dame Jocelyn Barbara Hepworth] (Maclean's book is Circles and Squares: The Lives and Art of the Hampstead Modernists.)):
    Bronze thieves likely stole this artist's Two Forms (Divided Circle) from London's Dulwich Park in 2011. Caroline Maclean traced modern British art to this member of Unit One piercing a hole in pink alabaster in 1932.

[B3] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about beef carcasses in fine arts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annibale Carracci):
    This baroque artist produced several paintings entitled Butcher's Shop, but he is probably better known for the scenes of classical mythology he painted for the Farnese Gallery in his The Loves of the Gods frescoes.
  Part 2 (ans: The Flight to Egypt (accept The Rest on the Flight to Egypt)):
    Pieter Aertsen was also drawn to the universal imagery of cow corpses but outdid Carracci by including this Biblical scene in the background of his Butcher's Stall. Correggio depicted St. Francis inexplicably appearing from behind a tree in his version of the "rest" during this event.
  Part 3 (ans: Expressionism):
    The painter of Carcass of Beef, Chaim Soutine, is associated with this early 20th century artistic movement, whose other adherents include Edvard Munch and Oskar Kokoschka.

[B4] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some painters who depicted meat, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Rembrandt van Rijn):
    This artist showed a piece of a slaughtered ox hanging from the ceiling in his Carcass of Beef, but he's better known for paintings featuring Francis Banning Cocq and Dr. Nicolaes Tulp.
  Part 2 (ans: Annibale Carracci [prompt on "Carracci"]):
    This Italian showed the art of handling meat in The Butcher's Shop, which is ofen grouped with his The Beaneater as early examples of genre painting in Italy. He is better known for his semicircular depiction of The Flight into Egpt in the Doria Pamphili gallery.
  Part 3 (ans: Pieter Aertsen):
    This Dutch artist of The Eg Dance is known for paintings that merge dissonant genres such as combining a still life and biblical scene in his The Butcher's Stall with the Flight into Egpt.

[B5] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify some creators of food-inspired works of art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Annibale Carracci):
    This Italian created the Loves of the Gods for the ceiling of the Galleria in the Farnese Palace, in addition to Butcher's Shop and The Beaneater. A red cloak is draped over the back of a donkey in his version of The Flight into Egypt.
  Part 2 (ans: Pieter Aertsen):
    Another scene of the Flight into Egypt can be seen in the background of Butcher's Stall, a painting by this Amsterdam-born artist and teacher of Joachim Bueckelaer.
  Part 3 (ans: Rembrandt Harmensz van Rjin):
    The title Slaughtered Ox hangs from a frame in a 1655 painting by this artist of Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer and the Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Tulp.
