=== STOCK CLUES: Seamus Heaney ===
Tossup questions: 20 found, 62 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 26 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney
  - A poem by this author describes a man whose shoulders were "globed like a full sail" who leaves a "hobnailed wake." The speaker of that poem by this author hopes to "close one eye, stiffen my arm" like that man, who "will not go away" in the last line of that poem.
  - The speaker of another poem by this author gets his palms "sticky as Bluebeard's," but a "rat-grey fungus" spoils the speaker's labor.
  - The speaker of another poem by this author sees animals "poised like mud grenades" that sicken him, feeling they are "gathered there for vengeance." One poem by this author declares, "By God, the old man could handle a spade," contrasted with the speaker, in whose hand "the squat pen rests." For 10 points, "Blackberry-Picking" and "Digging" are by what author of Death of a Naturalist? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: swans [accept "Leda and the Swan" or "The Wild Swans at Coole"; prompt on birds] ("Postscript" is by Seamus Heaney.)
  - The speaker says it is "useless to think you'll park and capture" the sight of these animals, because you are "a hurry through which known and strange things pass" in the poem "Postscript." A poem titled for one of these animals wonders if a woman felt "the strange heart beating where it lies." In another poem, "passion and conquest" attend upon these animals, as noted by a speaker who says that although "all's (*) changed" in the nineteen years since he first counted these animals, their hearts "have not grown old." A poem titled for one of these animals imagines "the burning roof... and Agamemnon dead." In another poem, "nine and fifty" of these wild animals gather at Coole.
  - For 10 points, W. [GIVE]
  - B.
  - Yeats wrote about Leda's abduction by what animal?

[T3] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney's younger brother [or Christopher Heaney; prompt on Seamus (Justin) Heaney's sibling; prompt on Heaney]
  - Description acceptable.
  - This person is described as a "little stillness dancer" and "haunter-son" in a poem that opens and closes with the title animal "On the grass when I arrive" and "In the ivy when I leave." The speaker thinks of this person in the poem "The Blackbird of Glanmore," whose bedside is "soothed" by "Snowdrops and candles" in another poem.
  - The speaker sees this person wearing "a poppy (*) bruise on his left temple" after "the bumper knocked him clear." Big Jim Evans tells the speaker that "it was a hard blow" to the poet's father when tragedy strikes this person, who is seen lying inside "a four-foot box, a foot for every year." For 10 points, the poem "Mid-Term Break" responds to the death of what relative of the poet of Death of a Naturalist? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney
  - In one poem, this author described a figure who "seems to weep / the black river of himself." In the "old man-killing parishes," this author sees a man with a "peat-brown head" and feels "lost, / unhappy and at home." That poem is one of this author's "bog body" poems. [PWR]
  - In another poem, this author's dead brother wears a "poppy bruise" while lying in a "four-foot box, a foot for every year." The narrator of a poem by this author discovers (*) "great slime kings" "gathered there for vengeance" when returning to a "flax-dam" to collect frogspawn.
  - This author described bringing his grandfather milk "corked sloppily with paper" in a poem that analogizes the title action to a "squat pen" "between my finger and my thumb." For 10 points, name this author of "Death of a Naturalist" and "Digging." [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Reading Gaol ("redding jail") [or HM Prison Reading; or The Ballad of Reading Gaol; prompt on jail; prompt on (Oscar Wilde's) prison cell or C.3.3 with "In what prison was this cell located?"] (The critic in the first line is Seamus Heaney.)
  - In The Redress of Poetry, a critic argued that the form of a poem titled for this place reflected how its author "mutated into a propagandist" in the tradition of his mother. [PWR]
  - While at this place in 2016, Patti Smith read from an earlier work written in this place, whose final paragraph describes how Nature's "bitter herbs make me whole." A poem set in this place describes the speaker's peers looking "with a wistful eye" up at the "little tent of blue" called the sky. [PWR]
  - A (*) letter written in this place asserts that "Christ's place indeed is with the poets" and was addressed to a man nicknamed "Bosie." The letter "De Profundis" was written in this place, which titles a poem that laments, "Each man kills the thing he loves." For 10 points, name this location where Oscar Wilde was imprisoned for his homosexuality. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]
  - In one work by this author, a woman makes the narrator an object "of hard / silk thread / string-thin, / tight skein." In that same work by this author, a man tells the narrator "We're not a mile off it", referring to shopping for a coat. [PWR]
  - Part of a play by this author was recited at Joe Biden's inauguration by Lin-Manuel Miranda, and that play by this author is an adaptation of Philoctetes titled The Cure at Troy. [PWR]
  - One poem by this author ends with the "" in describing the day he would make butter with his mother, titled "Churning Day." Another of his poems begins "We have no prairies," later continuing, "The ground itself is kind, black butter" in reference to the title location.
  - This author claims (*) "Like thickened wine: summer's blood was in it," and later curses the "rat-grey fungus, glutting on our cache" which ruins the title foods.
  - For 10 points, name this Nobel Prize-winning author of "Three-Piece," "Bogland," and "Blackberry-Picking." [GIVE]

[T7] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney] (The first poem is "The Grauballe Man.")
  - A poem by this author describes a figure that "seems to weep the black river of himself" and asks, "Who will say 'corpse' to his vivid cast?" A poem by this author describes "juices" working a figure "to a saint's kept body" and ends, "out here in Jutland...I will feel lost, unhappy, and at home." Several poems about bog bodies appear in this poet's collections North and Wintering Out, such as "The Tollund Man." This poet described a man who "cut more turf in a day" than any other "on Toner's bog" and is brought "milk in a bottle corked sloppily with paper" by the speaker.
  - That poem by this author states, "By God, the old man could handle a spade" and ends, "the squat pen rests.
  - I'll dig with it." For 10 points, name this Irish poet who included the poem "Digging" in the collection Death of a Naturalist. [GIVE]

[T8] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Grendel's lair [or Grendel's mother's lair; accept cave in place of "lair"; accept synonyms such as hideout in place of "lair"; accept any answer that describes where Grendel or Grendel's mother lives] (The Dead Marshes are in Middle-earth, near Mordor. All direct quotes are from Seamus Heaney's translation.)
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - After returning from this place, a character watches an object "wilt into gory icicles" in a passage that concludes "He who wields power over time and tide: He is the true Lord." The "burning waters" surrounding this place inspired a later author's description of "tricksy lights" in the Dead Marshes. [PWR]
  - A group traveling to this place encounters an old man's severed head under a cliff. [PWR]
  - A man takes a hilt from this place after he beheads a corpse, whose blood melts a (*) sword "from the days of the giants." A journey to this place is prompted by the murder of the wise councilor Aeschere. [PWR]
  - Upon receiving the sword Hrunting, a man swims down to this place to do battle with a creature who terrorized Heorot after the death of her son, a "descendant of Cain." For 10 points, give this residence of a monster and his mother in Beowulf. [GIVE]

[T9] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney (The poem is "Digging.")
  - The speaker of a poem by this author "rhymes / To see myself, to set the darkness echoing" as he can no longer engage in an activity that is "beneath all adult dignity." The speaker of a poem by this author hears a "clean rasping sound" that reminds him of the time he delivered "milk in a bottle / Corked sloppily with paper." This author, who described exploring wells as his "Personal Helicon," wrote of finding "rat-grey fungus" in "lovely canfuls" that "smelt of rot," which "each year" the speaker "hoped [would] keep" but "knew they would not." A poem by this author begins "Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests" and ends with the declaration "I'll dig with it." For 10 points, name this Irish poet who included "Blackberry-Picking" in his collection Death of a Naturalist. [GIVE]

[T10] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus ("SHAY-mus") [accept Seamus Heaney or Seamus Justin Heaney; accept Seamus Deane]
  - Two poets with this first name were founding members of the Field Day Theatre.
  - A poet with this first name dedicated the sequence "Singing School" to a fellow poet with this first name who wrote the novel Reading in the Dark and had the surname "Deane." A poet with this first name connected his need to "rhyme / to see myself, to set the darkness echoing" to how "as a child, they could not keep me from wells" in his poem "Personal Helicon." That poet with this first name described "a straining rump among the flowerbeds" and a "bottle corked sloppily with paper" in a poem that analogizes his own use of a "squat pen" to how his father "could handle a spade." For 10 points, give this first name of an Irish poet who included the poem "Digging" in his collection Death of a Naturalist. [GIVE]

[T11] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]
  - In a poem by this author, the speaker considers asking the title figure to "germinate / The scattered, ambushed / Flesh of labourers, / Stockinged corpses." The speaker of a poem by this author sees a baby who "cooed and laughed and rocked the pram" in a room where old men tell him "sorry for my trouble." In another poem, this author of "The Tollund Man" describes "the warm thick slobber / Of frogspawn." A poem by this author describes the "poppy bruise" on the left temple of his brother, who lies in "A four-foot box, a foot for every year." This author wrote of how his grandfather "could handle a spade" in a poem that ends "The squat pen rests. / I'll dig with it." For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "Mid-Term Break" and "Digging," two poems collected in Death of a Naturalist. [GIVE]

[T12] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ireland [or Eire, or Erin; accept Northern Ireland; prompt on the United Kingdom] (The poem in the second sentence is "On Raglan Road" by Patrick Kavanagh; Northern Ireland is accepted and the UK is prompted because Seamus Heaney, while best-known as an Irish poet, was born in Northern Ireland.)
  - Mark Strand edited The Making of a Poem with a poet from this country who vowed to "say nothing" when her daughter "holds the papery flushed skin... to her lips" in a poem about the Persephone myth, "Pomegranate." In a poem often set to music by singers from this country, the speaker knows that a woman's "dark hair would weave a snare that I might one day rue" after meeting her on the title road.
  - In another poem from this country, the speaker recalls an incident in which he brought his grandfather "milk in a bottle / Corked sloppily with paper." That poem ends, "Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests. / I'll dig with it." after describing the author's father cutting turf.
  - For 10 points, name this country of Eavan Boland, Patrick Kavanagh, and Seamus Heaney. [GIVE]

[T13] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney ("SHAY-mus HEE-nee") [or Seamus Justin Heaney]
  - A poem by this author concludes that "on well-run farms pests have to be kept down" and describes the speaker's memory of seeing a man drown kittens in a bucket.
  - The speaker of one of this author's poems calls himself "a nuisance, tripping, falling," since he always got in his father's way.
  - A poem by this author laments that "to stare, big-eyed Narcissus, into some spring is beneath all adult dignity" and describes the speaker's childhood obsession with (*) wells.
  - This author of "The Early Purges," "Follower," and "Personal Helicon" wrote a poem whose title objects "like thickened wine" grow a "rat-grey fungus," making "their sweet flesh... turn sour." A poem by this author describes how "whispers informed strangers I was the eldest" after "the bumper knocked him clear," referencing the death of his brother.
  - That poem ends by describing "a four-foot box, a foot for every year." For 10 points, name this poet who included "Blackberry-Picking" and "Mid-Term Break" in his collection Death of a Naturalist. [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney
  - This author described a certain type of work in Stepping Stones as giving "the high of finishing something you don't have to start." In one translation by this author the speaker sees "two soldered in a frozen hole / On top of other, one's skull capping the other's" and is meant to parallel events of Gerry Adams' life. [PWR]
  - This poet's collections include the punningly titled book The Midnight Verdict, which translates poems by Merriman.
  - One translation by this poet emphasizes the "four-squareness of the utterance" of its title character. [PWR]
  - That translation by this poet employed a style called (*) "Scullionspeak," and opens with "So" in place of "HWÆT", before describing "The Spear-Danes in days gone by". [PWR]
  - The most famous of translation by this man is his Beowulf.
  - For 10 points, name this translator, who also wrote the collection The Death of a Naturalist. [GIVE]

[T15] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney
  - A poem by this author describes having a deja-vu of "some film made / Of Stalag 17, a bad dream with no sound" before asking "Is there a life before death?" He wrote a poem whose speaker is told "Compose in darkness. / Expect Aurora Borealis... / but no cascade of light" and "Keep your eye clear / as the bleb of the icicle." This author of "Whatever You Say, Say Nothing" described being (*) driven home by his neighbors from college to witness his mother's "angry tearless sighs" in a poem that ends with the one-line stanza "A four-foot box, a foot for every year." A description of Viking raiders appears in his poem "North," and the death of his brother Christopher is the subject of "Mid-Term Break." For 10 points, name this Irish poet who wrote the collection Death of a Naturalist . [PWR,GIVE]

[T16] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney (SHAY-muss HEE-nee)
  - In a poem dedicated to his mother, this author described a felled chestnut tree as "a soul ramifying and forever / silent, beyond silence listened for." The speaker of a poem by this author declares "I always felt like crying.
  - It wasn't fair / That all the canfuls smelt of rot" after harvesting the title fruit in late August.
  - In another poem by this author, the speaker remembers "Big Jim Evans saying it was a hard blow" and seeing the corpse of one of his relatives "wearing a poppy bruise on his left temple." This author of "Clearances" and "Blackberry Picking" described his dead brother Christopher lying in "a four-foot box, a foot for every year" in the poem "Mid-Term Break." For 10 points name this Irish poet who gained renown for his 2000 translation of Beowulf. [GIVE]

[T17] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney (SHAY-mus HEE-nee) [or Seamus Justin Heaney]
  - This writer wrote about a man and "his last gruel of winter seeds caked in his stomach" in a poem concluding, "In the old man-killing parishes I will feel lost, unhappy and at home".
  - Another of his poems describes how "bubbles gargled delicately, bluebottles wove a strong gauze (goz) of sound around the smell".
  - In addition to writing about wanting to go to Aarhus (AR-hooss) to see the "peat-brown head" of "The Tollund Man", this poet wrote about a "rat-grey fungus" that leads the speaker to conclude, "It wasn't fair that all the lovely canfuls smelt of rot".
  - This poet of "Blackberry-Picking" wrote about the death of his younger brother in a poem ending, "A four foot box, a foot for every year".
  - For 10 points, name this Irish poet who included "Mid-Term Break" in Death of a Naturalist and translated Beowulf. [GIVE]

[T18] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney
  - In a poem by this author, the speaker "loved [the] whole manner" of a man "sure-footed but too sly" who was "blown to bits / out drinking in a curfew." This author of "Casualty" also wrote about creatures "poised like mud grenades, their blunt heads farting," called "great slime kings" who "were gathered there for vengeance." In that work, he recounts filling "jampotfuls of the jellied / Specks to range on window sills at home" and watching "until / The fattening dots burst, into nimble / Swimming tadpoles." In another poem by this man, he remembers seeing his brother "for the first time in six weeks" in a "four foot box, one for every year." For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "Death of a Naturalist" and "Mid-Term Break" who produced a 1999 verse translation of Beowulf. [GIVE]

[T19] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]
  - The title characters of a poem by this author climb "the slopes of the cutting" until they see "telegraph poles" curving for miles, and feel so small that they "could stream through the eye of a needle." This author of "Railway Children" mentioned Diodorus Siculus's "gradual ease" in a poem inspired by the decapitated head of a girl. [PWR]
  - In another poem by him, a boy fills (*) "jampots" with "jellied specks" before a host of frogs "gathered for vengeance" scare him away.
  - The speaker of a poem by him sees his father crying on the porch and his mother coughing "angry tearless sighs," before describing a coffin that is "four foot" long, "a foot for every year." For 10 points, name this Irish author of "Strange Fruit", who included "Mid-term Break" in his anthology Death of a Naturalist. [GIVE]

[T20] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Seamus Heaney
  - One poem by this author declares, "Into your virtual city I'll have passed," and is narrated by a figure "in Springtime" who is noted in another poem for "the mild pods of his eyelids, his pointed skin cap." This poet described finding "only the secular powers of the Atlantic thundering" in "North." This poet wrote of a "poppy bruise" on a "left temple" in a poem recalling his mother coughing out "angry tearless sighs." The narrator of one of his poems flees from a "a coarse croaking" he "had not heard before" in a poem in which a boy gathers "jampotfuls" of frogspawn.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Mid-Term Break" and "Death of a Naturalist," an Irish poet known for translating Beowulf. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about an object which "lies on a pillow of turf / and seems to weep" in the poem "The Grauballe Man." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    Name this Nobel Laureate who commented on the Troubles in Northern Ireland in his collection North. This poet of Death of a Naturalist wrote about "the good turf" in "Digging."
  Part 2 (ans: "Strange Fruit"):
    Several poems in North describe bog bodies, including one of this title which begins: "Here is the girl's head." A poem by Abel Meeropol with this title describes "bulgin' eyes and the twisted mouth" and "the sudden smell of burnin' flesh."
  Part 3 (ans: say nothing [accept "Whatever You Say, Say Nothing"] (It was a common command on IRA posters.)):
    Also in North is a poem titled for this command which describes a conversation with "an English journalist in search of views / On the Irish thing." This command also titles Patrick Radden Keefe's account of "murder and memory in Northern Ireland."

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. An essay from Finders Keepers uses the decision to state that this person "worked" rather than "wrought" with a horse-drawn plow to introduce the poetry of John Clare. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney's father [or Patrick Heaney; accept synonyms like the dad of Seamus Heaney; prompt on Heaney]):
    Identify this subject of "Follower," whom poems like "The Strand" depict with an ashplant walking stick. In a poem that mentions a "squat pen," the speaker looks out at this person's "straining rump among the flowerbeds."
  Part 2 (ans: digging [accept Digging My Own Grave]):
    The debut of Irish poet and father of four Gerard Beirne is titled for this action. In the aforementioned poem titled for this laborious action, Heaney states "By God, the old man could handle" a certain tool.
  Part 3 (ans: Paul Muldoon):
    This poet of paternal elegies like "Mushroom Gathering" remembered carrying Heaney's coffin in "Cuthbert and the Otters." This poet imagined Southey and Coleridge starting an American Pantisocracy in Madoc: A Mystery.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The autobiographical poem cycle Singing School details both this poet's upbringing amidst sectarian tensions and his literary influences. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney ("SHAY-muss HEE-nee") [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    Name this Irish poet who translated Beowulf and reflected on his childhood in poems like "Digging" and "The Death of a Naturalist."
  Part 2 (ans: Patrick Kavanagh ("KAV-uh-nuh")):
    Singing School opens by quoting this author's observation that "we have lived / In important places." This Irish contemporary of Heaney wrote the poems "On Raglan Road" and "The Great Hunger," as well as the novel Tarry Flynn.
  Part 3 (ans: Katherine Mansfield (The story is "The Garden Party.")):
    Singing School later quotes this author's resolution to "tell everything, even of how the laundry basket squeaked." A story by this non-Irish author ends with Laura stammering "Isn't life?" after she delivers a basket of leftover food.

[B4] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet published his first major collection in 1966, and would go on to win the Nobel prize in literature in 1995. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    Name this Irish poet known for his work that focused on the natural surroundings of Ireland.
  Part 2 (ans: Digging):
    In this Heaney poem, he describes his father and grandfather's ability to "cut turf," and contrasts this with his ability to write instead, stating that he will do the title action with his pen.
  Part 3 (ans: WB Yeats):
    Heaney was greatly influenced by this other Irish poet, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in literature in 1923. In one poem of his, he describes the "Second Coming," and in another he states that he will "arise and go now, and go to Innisfree..."

[B5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A Julia Alvarez poem titled for this concept lists "Faith Chaney, Lulu Perez, Sunghee Chen" as "people who'll swear [this concept] has never done / a thing for them." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: poetry [or word forms; accept "for poetry makes nothing happen"]):
    Name this concept. That Alvarez poem takes its title from the speaker's claim that this concept "makes nothing happen: it survives / In the valley of its making" in the elegy "In Memory of W. B. Yeats."
  Part 2 (ans: W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]):
    This poet declared, "Poetry makes nothing happen" and proclaimed, "We must love one another and die" in the poem "September 1, 1939."
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney ("SHAY-muss HEE-nee") [or Seamus Justin Heaney] (The quote is from his essay "The Government of the Tongue." The poem is "Mid-Term Break.")):
    This author of the poem "Audenesque" echoed his ideas in declaring, "No lyric has ever stopped a tank." A poem by this author describes his brother's dead body in "a four-foot box, a foot for every year."

[B6] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker says, "I stirred wet sand and gathered myself / to climb the steep-flanked mound" in a poem titled "[this character] Redivivus." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Suibhne ("SIV-nuh") [or Sweeney; accept Buile Suibhne or The Madness of Sweeney or "Sweeney Redivivus"]):
    Name this character who appears throughout the third section of Station Island. This character runs out of his castle naked to stop Saint Ronan from building a church in his kingdom in a medieval tale titled for his "madness."
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney ("SHAY-muss HEE-nee") [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    This author of Station Island translated the Irish tale Buile Suibhne ("BWILL-uh SIV-nuh") as Sweeney Astray. This Nobel Laureate also wrote Death of a Naturalist.
  Part 3 (ans: Flann O'Brien [or Brian O'Nolan]):
    A student writes about the novelist Trellis who writes about Finn MacCool who tells the story of Sweeney in this author's novel At Swim-Two-Birds, which is titled for a ford visited by Sweeney in the original tale.

[B7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Translations of poems by authors like Paul Valery and Horace are placed throughout this poet's most famous collection. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Muldoon):
    Name this author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning collection Moy Sand and Gravel. This author remembers traveling through "Dunnamanagh and Ballynascreen" in his native Northern Ireland in the poem "Hard Drive."
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    In a eulogy at this author's funeral, Muldoon recalled a time when this author "bounced [him] off like snow off a plough" during a game of football. This countryman of Muldoon penned the collection Death of a Naturalist.
  Part 3 (ans: Ted Hughes [or Edward James Hughes]):
    Muldoon's poem "Erm" is dedicated to this poet. The title animal "enters the dark hole of the head" after setting "neat prints into the snow" in "The Thought-Fox," one of this author's many poems about animals.

[B8] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Description Acceptable. After listening to the title "Blackbird of Glanmore," the speaker imagines this person "Cavorting through the yard, so glad to see me home." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christopher Heaney [or Seamus Heaney's younger brother; prompt on Heaney; prompt on Seamus Heaney's sibling]):
    Name, or describe, this person who was killed in a road accident in February 1953. In a different poem, the speaker somberly notes that this person's coffin was "a four-foot box, a foot for every year."
  Part 2 (ans: frogs [accept bullfrogs]):
    The aforementioned poem, "Mid-Term Break," appears in Seamus Heaney's collection Death of a Naturalist, whose title poem describes the speaker's frightful encounter with these animals. One of these animals jumps into a pond in a Basho haiku.
  Part 3 (ans: "Personal Helicon"):
    Death of a Naturalist ends with this poem, whose speaker realizes that his childhood hobby of peering into wells now seems "beneath all adult dignity." It ends with the declaration " I rhyme / To see myself, to set the darkness echoing."

[B9] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a five-part poem titled for this action, the speaker describes "Centuries / Of fear and homage to the famine god" and claims, "Hope rotted like a marrow." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: potato digging [accept "At a Potato Digging"]):
    Name this action. In another poem titled for this action, the narrator watches the "straining rump" of a man doing this action "come up twenty years away" after "stooping in rhythm."
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    The speaker describes "stinking potatoes" that "fouled the land" in this poet's "At a Potato Digging." That poem, along with "Digging," is included in this Irish poet's collection Death of a Naturalist.
  Part 3 (ans: "Blackberry-Picking"):
    In this poem, Heaney mourns that "It wasn't fair / That all the lovely canfuls smelt of rot." This poem's speaker describes "palms sticky as Bluebeard's" and "a rat-grey fungus."

[B10] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's fruitful late period, in which he published the volumes Canaan, The Triumph of Love, and Speech! Speech! after thirteen years of silence, is often attributed to the treatment of his depression. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoffrey Hill):
    Name this poet who included several poems about the Holocaust, such as "September Song" and "Ovid in the Third Reich," in his second collection, King Log. This poet drew on Anglo-Saxon history for his Mercian Hymns.
  Part 2 (ans: Briggflatts):
    Basil Bunting dramatized the death of Eric Bloodaxe in part two of this long modernist poem about Northumbria, which begins, "Brag, sweet tenor bull."
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    This Irish poet of Station Island and Death of a Naturalist rendered the incipit "Hwaet!" as "So." in his 1999 translation of the Anglo-Saxon epic Beowulf.

[B11] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: On the day this event happens, "a bee circles a clover" and "a fisherman mends a glimmering net." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the end of the world [answer equivalents like the apocalypse]):
    Name this event. A Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-waff mee-WOHSH") poem that ends with a "white-haired old man" saying "there will be no other" occurrence of this event is titled for a "song on" it.
  Part 2 (ans: Poland [or Polska]):
    Czeslaw Milosz is an author from this country. Wislawa Szymborska ("vis-WAH-vah shim-BOR-skah") wrote poetry in its city of Krakow.
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    This author's poem "Out of the World" is dedicated to the memory of Milosz. This man wrote "By God, the old man could handle a spade" in his poem "Digging."

[B12] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a sequel to this poem, the speaker describes "blurred playground noises" and "black stockinged nurses" while taking a walk in the park to avoid work, but admits that shirking "doesn't suit me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Toads"):
    Name this poem that asks "why should I let the [title creatures] squat on my life" before mentioning the wives of pensioners who are "as skinny as whippets."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    "Toads" is by this British poet who also wrote that "Sexual intercourse began / In nineteen sixty-three" in the poem "Annus Mirabilis." He also wrote "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: "Death of a Naturalist" (by Seamus Heaney)):
    This poem by another author concludes by calling some frogs "great slime kings [...] gathered there for vengeance." This poem titles a collection that also contains "Blackberry-Picking" and "Digging."

[B13] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem ends with the image of "A four-foot box, a foot for every year." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mid-Term Break"):
    Name this poem in which the narrator returns to his home from college to attend his younger brother's funeral.
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney ("SHAY-muss HEE-nee")):
    This Irish poet of "Mid-Term Break" also translated Beowulf and wrote the lines "Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests; snug as a gun" in "Digging," part of his collection the Death of the Naturalist.
  Part 3 (ans: "Blackberry-Picking"):
    Heaney's collection Opened Ground also contains this poem that describes "palms sticky as Bluebeard's." This poem describes the discovery of "a rat-grey fungus" and ends "Each year I hoped they'd keep, knew they would not."

[B14] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote "Do not feel safe. The poet remembers. / You can kill one, but another is born" in "You Who Wronged." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Czeslaw Milosz ("CHESS-wav MEE-wosh")):
    Name this poet who wrote about Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta in The Captive Mind, which attempts to explain why Stalinism appeals to intellectuals.
  Part 2 (ans: Poland):
    Milosz hails from this Eastern European country. The author of Quo Vadis, Henryk Sinkiewicz ("shen-KYEY-vitch"), is from here.
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    This Irish poet, who wrote about seeing creatures "poised like mud grenades" that created "warm thick slobber" in one work, was heavily influenced by Milosz and read a poem at his funeral.

[B15] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet invokes Lacan and Kripke, claiming that "a word is elegy to what it signifies" and that "All the new thinking is about loss," before recalling the myriad metaphysical connections between him and a woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Hass):
    Name this author and Berkeley professor who tries to disentangle "the bramble" of the word "blackberry," eventually ending with the words, "blackberry blackberry blackberry," in the poem "Meditation at Lagunitas."
  Part 2 (ans: haikus):
    Robert Hass has produced translations of poems in this form, such as one that mourns, "This world of dew / is the world of dew / And yet, and yet-" by Kobayashi Issa. A frog jumps into a pond in another one of these poems.
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    This poet called frogs "great slime-kings" and wrote about "our palms sticky as Bluebeard's" in the poem "Blackberry-Picking."

[B16] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one poem, the narrator describes following the "hob-nailed wake" of this figure in his youth, but concludes that "today / it is [this figure] who keeps stumbling / behind me, and will not go away." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney's father [or alternate titles for father, such as dad; prompt on the narrator's father]):
    Name this figure. Another poem addressed to this figure describes him haggling at a cattle market, and states that "Your stick was parked behind the door and stands there still."
  Part 2 (ans: "Digging"):
    Possibly the best known poem about Heaney's dad is this one, in which the author imagines a "rasping sound" outside his window from "twenty years away" and states "By God, the old man could handle a spade."
  Part 3 (ans:  Death of a Naturalist):
    "Follower," "Ancestral Photograph" and "Digging" were all published in this 1966 Heaney collection, his first to be published.

[B17] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem begins, "Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests, snug as a gun" before the speaker hears the "clean rasping sound" of his father performing the title action. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Digging"):
    Name this poem in which the speaker describes the "cold smell of potato mould, the squelch and slap / Of soggy peat." It includes the line, "By God, the old man could handle a spade."
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    "Digging" was written by this Irish poet of the collection Death of a Naturalist who published an award-winning translation of Beowulf in 2000.
  Part 3 (ans: "Blackberry-Picking"):
    Heaney wrote this poem in which the speaker describes how "our hands were peppered / With thorn pricks, our palms sticky as Bluebeard's." It ends, "Each year I hoped they'd keep, knew they would not" after the title action.

[B18] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Owen acts as go-between in this play between the men working for the Ordnance Survey, Captain Lancey and Lieutenant Yolland. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Translations):
    Name this play set in the fictional Donegal village of Baile Beag [Ballybeg] which deals with the linguistic tension between the English and the Irish characters.
  Part 2 (ans: Brian Friel):
    Translations was written by this recently deceased Irish playwright of Dancing at Lughnasa and Philadelphia, Here I Come!
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    Friel worked with this poet for the Field Day Theatre Company. They became friends after Friel wrote a letter complimenting his Death of a Naturalist

[B19] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This word means something like "Hark!" or "Listen up!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hwæt):
    Name this Anglo-Saxon word, which is the first word of Beowulf.
  Part 2 (ans: J.R.R. Tolkien [or John Ronald Reuel Tolkien]):
    This man's translation of Beowulf translates "Hwæt" as "Lo!" His translation was posthumously published with the subtitle "A Translation and a Commentary."
  Part 3 (ans: Seamus Heaney [or Seamus Justin Heaney]):
    The most popular translation of Beowulf is probably that of this Irish poet, whose collection Death of a Naturalist includes the poem "Digging."

[B20] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Examples of these devices include "whale-road" and "battle-sweat." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kennings):
    Name these circumlocutions used in Old English poems, like Beowulf, that replace an ordinary noun with a more interesting, usually hyphenated epithet.
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    This Irish poet updated the kenning for modern English in his faithful 1999 translation of Beowulf.
  Part 3 (ans: Shield Sheafson [accept either underlined portion]):
    Beowulf begins with a brief description of the life and death of this legendary Spear-Dane king. His rise from foundling to ruler foreshadows the course of Beowulf's life.

[B21] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote "Out... In the old man-killing parishes / I will feel lost, / Unhappy and at home" in his poem "The Tollund Man." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    Name this poet of collections like The Haw Lantern. Another poem by this author describes a "four foot box, a foot for each year" and begins "I sat all morning in the college sick bay."
  Part 2 (ans: Beowulf):
    In addition to writing "Mid-Term Break," Heaney used the interjection "So!" to open his translation of this Old English epic poem that features the title character's battles with Grendel, Grendel's mother, and a dragon.
  Part 3 (ans: The Cure at Troy: A Version of Sophocles' 'Philoctetes'):
    Heaney also adapted Philoctetes into this verse drama. It contains an oft quoted passage about "the longed-for tidal wave of justice" that can rise up "once in a lifetime."

[B22] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about 20th century literature and its relationship to Sophocles' Antigone, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean Anouilh [on-wee]):
    This French dramatist wrote the tragedy Antigone [on-tig-OWN], based on Sophocles and seen as an attack on the Nazi occupation of France?
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    This Irish poet and dramatist wrote The Burial at Thebes, but is probably better known for dying last 2013 and his collection The Death of a Naturalist.
  Part 3 (ans: Athol Fugard):
    This South African playwright's play The Island tells of two prisoners trying to stage Antigone, though he is probably better known for his plays "Master Harold"...and the Boys

[B23] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: It begins "I sat all morning in the college sick bay" and proceeds to describe the reaction of the poet's family to the death of Christopher, the younger brother of the speaker. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mid-Term Break"):
    Identify this poem that ends "A four foot box, a foot for every year."
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    "Mid-Term Break" can be found in the poetry collection Death of a Naturalist by this contemporary Irish poet who translated Beowulf in 1999.
  Part 3 (ans: frogs):
    The poem "Death of a Naturalist" ends with the speaker's frightening encounter with some of these creatures, which he believes to be angry with him for stealing their eggs.

[B24] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Irish poets.
  Part 1 (ans: William Butler Yeats):
    This man wondered "Murmuring how far away are the unquiet lands" in his poem "The Indian to His Love." He also wrote "Sailing to Byzantium" and "The Second Coming."
  Part 2 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    This poet remembered hoping that the title fruit would keep even though he knew that they would not in his poem "Blackberry-Picking," while he mused that "By God, the old man could handle a spade" in another poem.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Beckett):
    The question "what would I do without this world" opens one poem by this author, who had Rene Descartes address an egg as "this abortion of a fledgling" in a different poem.

[B25] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of one of this man's poems states, "Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests." For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Seamus Heaney):
    Name this Irish poet of "Digging" and the collection Death of a Naturalist.
  Part 2 (ans: "Mid-Term Break"):
    In other Heaney poem, the narrator sits "all morning in the college sick bay" before seeing his brother lays i "A four foot box, a foot for every year."
  Part 3 (ans: "Blackberry-Picking"):
    Heaney also wrote this poem in which, while engaging in the title activity, "Our hands were... sticky as Bluebeard's." The narrator is sad to know that "Each year [he] hoped they'd keep, knew they would not."
