=== STOCK CLUES: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 51 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]
  - The life of a painter from this movement is satirized in a series of 23 caricatures by Max Beerbohm.
  - A biography of that artist from this movement by Evelyn Waugh was published by Penguin Modern Classics in 2022 with the artist's painting of a woman holding a partially-eaten fruit on its cover.
  - Figures in the paintings Peace Concluded and The Order of Release were modeled after a woman who married an artist from this movement after leaving the critic John Ruskin.
  - A painting from this movement portrays the title character modeled after Elizabeth Siddal holding a garland of flowers as she calmly drowns in a river.
  - The painting Ophelia is from, for 10 points, what 19th-century British art movement whose members included Dante Gabriel Rossetti? [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or the Pre-Raphaelites; or the PRB; accept Fleshly School until read] (The first line quotes Christina Rossetti's poem "The P.R.B." and references Thomas Woolner.)
  - A sonnet compares this movement's decline to "luscious fruit [that] must fall when over-ripe" and imagines the poet of "My Beautiful Lady" in "Australia [cooking] his chops." In a poem from this movement inspired by "The Raven," the title woman's lover says the parenthetical asides "I saw her smile" and "I heard her tears." Charles Buchanan's essay "The Fleshly School of Poetry" attacks this movement, whose goal "to have genuine ideas to express" was put forth in a journal titled for "the (*) Germ" of an idea.
  - One poet from this movement described a woman with hair "yellow like ripe corn" who "lean'd out / From the gold bar of Heaven" in "The Blessed Damozel," while another wrote of the title creatures urging Lizzie and Laura "come buy, come buy" in "Goblin Market." For 10 points, the Rossettis were part of what movement that resisted an Italian artist's influence? [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]
  - An artist from this movement later added the face of Alexa Wilding to a painting of a woman combing her hair while looking at a hand mirror. [PWR]
  - Jane Morris modeled for two paintings by that artist from this movement that were commissioned by Frederick Leyland; those paintings were part of that artist's "six stunners." An artist from this movement painted a woman in a blue robe holding a partially-eaten fruit. [PWR]
  - This movement produced the paintings Lady Lilith and (*) Proserpine.
  - Elizabeth Siddal modeled for a painting from this movement of a woman in a white dress holding a handful of flowers before drowning to death in a river.
  - For 10 points, what artistic movement produced the painting Ophelia and was founded by John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti? [GIVE]

[T4] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [accept PRB] (The 1st work is James Collinson's The Holy Family and the 2nd is Holman Hunt's The Scapegoat)
  - In a late painting by one artist from this movement, an Egyptian temple is visible behind the shoulder of a young Christ who stands in a garden feeding a dove by hand. [PWR]
  - Another artist from this movement was inspired by a scene from Leviticus to depict a certain animal with a red ribbon around its horns. [PWR]
  - A third artist from this movement depicted his daughter holding a trumpet next to the title Golden Stairs in one painting, and legendarily buried a tube of a brown pigment after discovering that it was made from (*) mummies. [PWR]
  - Wood shavings litter the floor of a carpentry shop in another work by an artist from this movement, who showed the title Shakespearean character floating in a pond in another painting.
  - For ten points, name this art movement, which included Edward Burne-Jones and John Everett Millais, and sought to emulate a certain Renaissance painter. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; PRB] (The painting described in the second line is Beata Beatrix.)
  - A painting from this movement depicts a sundial casting its shadow on 9 p.m. behind a red dove with a white poppy in its mouth that flies toward a dying woman. [PWR]
  - A painter from this movement contrasted "Soul's Beauty" and "Body's Beauty" in the paintings Sibylla Palmifera and Lady Lilith. [PWR]
  - A woman in a red dress weaves a tapestry in front of a circular window in a work partially titled for the line "I Am (*) Half-Sick of Shadows," which is one of the paintings of the Lady of Shalott made by John William Waterhouse. [PWR]
  - A frequent model for this movement, Elizabeth Siddal, caught a cold while laying in a bathtub to model for Ophelia.
  - For 10 points, name this movement that included John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, which emulated a style from before a certain Renaissance painter. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or the Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]
  - An artist from this movement wears Slavic clothes in a photograph by another artist from this movement.
  - That artist depicted a goat standing alone on the Dead Sea in The Scapegoat.
  - Many Arthurian scenes were staged as photographs by a member of this group, Julia Margaret Cameron.
  - A painting from this movement depicts the young Christ in front of a carpenter's table with reddish hair, and another painting from this movement shows Christ wearing a crown of thorns and holding a lantern while knocking on a door.
  - For 10 points, identify this artistic movement which followed critic John Ruskin, included William Holman Hunt and John Everett Millais, and was named for its attempt to undo the legacy of a Renaissance artist. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood or PRB <Edited>
  - An artist who adopted the style of this movement painted The Deceitfulness of Riches, which was the centrepiece of an exhibition of her works called Such Stuff as Dreams are made of! [PWR]
  - An earlier woman in this movement died toothless in Graylingwell Asylum. [PWR]
  - Another woman who worked in the style of this movement experimented with automatic writing after marrying William De Morgan. [PWR]
  - In addition to Eleanor Fortescue Brickdale, another woman in this movement was shown in a painting whose name means (*) "The Kissed Mouth." Another woman in this movement demanded 50 pounds for medical expenses after being made to pose in a cold bath for a painting in which she is drowning in a white dress holding a bouquet. [PWR]
  - Men in this movement painted models such as Fanny Cornforth and Elizabeth Siddal.
  - For 10 points, name this movement that included Dante Gabriel Rossetti and John Everett Millais. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [prompt on "PRB"]
  - Members of this school were mentored by William Dyce, who painted Le Mort D'Arthur for a certain government building. [PWR]
  - One co-founder of this artistic school painted a woman holding a pomegranate from which she has taken one bite in Proserpine. [PWR]
  - Another member of this school painted a woman with long red hair in a small boat with three candles on it; that painting is (*) The Lady of Shallot. [PWR]
  - This artistic group published a journal, The Germ, for only four issues.
  - Elizabeth Siddal modeled for a painting by a member of this group that depicts woman with her palms upward floating lifelessly in a brook, Ophelia.
  - For 10 points, name this group of British Academy painters that attempted to reverse a certain Italian painter's influence on art, which included William Holman Hunt, John Everett Millais, and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood
  - This artistic movement was parodied in the works of Florence Claxton. [PWR]
  - An artist from this movement placed his daughter Margaret at the forefront of a painting that depicts several women in white carrying various musical instruments down a staircase. [PWR]
  - In a painting from this movement, a cat looks upward from underneath a table at a seated man who holds his arm around the waist of a woman next to a piano. [PWR]
  - The (*) Awakening Conscience is a painting from this movement, and Elizabeth Siddal was the model for a painting from this movement that shows a character from Hamlet drowning herself.
  - In another painting from this movement, a lantern-holding Jesus raises his arm to knock on a vine-covered door.
  - For 10 points, name this art movement whose member William Holman Hunt painted The Light of the World. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]
  - One artist from this movement depicted the patriarch of the Greek Church committing the title act of fraud in his The Miracle of the Holy Fire. [PWR]
  - A different painting from this movement shows a crown of red wool over the title animal's head, which bears the burden of Jews. [PWR]
  - In addition to The Scapegoat, another painting from this movement features a woman staring out of a window while rising from the (*) lap of her lover, who sits at the piano. [PWR]
  - This movement produced the painting The Awakening Conscience, and it featured an artist who used Elizabeth Siddal as a model for the painting Ophelia.
  - Another of its artists inscribed lines from "The Blessed Damozel" into a painting of the same name.
  - For 10 points, name this group of artists which included William Hunt and Dante Rossetti. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It's not John Ruskin, but this critic described the "inconceivably ugly and grotesque" faces in Giulio Romano's The Fall of the Giants upon a visit to the Palazzo del Te, as recounted in his Pictures from Italy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens]):
    Name this critic, who attacked the depiction of a woman in Christ in the House of His Parents as "so horrible in her ugliness," "she would stand out... in the vilest cabaret in France, or the lowest ginshop in England."
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]):
    Dickens and other critics' loud disdain for Christ in the House of His Parents ironically contributed to a growth in the popularity of this English art movement led by Dante Gabriel Rossetti and John Everett Millais.
  Part 3 (ans: Vincent van Gogh(The second line refers to the Portrait of Dr. Gachet.)):
    This artist, who admired The Mystery of Edwin Drood, drew on Arthur Boyd Houghton's frontispiece for Dickens's Hard Times for his painting At Eternity's Gate. In a portrait by this artist, a foxglove rests atop two yellow-bound novels by the Goncourt brothers.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of this artist's earliest surviving works shows a view of the deserted Boulevard du Temple ("TOM-pluh"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis Daguerre("dah-GAIR") [or Louis-Jacques-Mande Daguerre]):
    Name this artist and inventor who patented a process of creating images using mercury vapor on an iodine plate.
  Part 2 (ans: Julia Margaret Cameron [or Julia Margaret Pattle]):
    This photographer of The Kiss of Peace was inspired by seeing the work of Daguerre and his rival Henry Fox Talbot to take up photography. This photographer made many soft-focus portraits of Victorian intellectual figures like Charles Darwin and Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
  Part 3 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites or PRB]):
    Julia Margaret Cameron was a photographer associated with this art movement. Dante Gabriel Rossetti founded this art movement, which sought to return to the artistic principles of the early Renaissance.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist made many so-called "fancy subjects," or allegorical photographs inspired by the Bible and classical literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julia Margaret Cameron [or Julia Margaret Pattle]):
    Name this photographer whose works include The Kiss of Peace. This Victorian photographer is also known for her portraits of people like Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [accept Pre-Raphaelites or PRB]):
    Tennyson's The Lady of Shalott inspired works by John William Waterhouse and William Holman Hunt, two members of this artistic movement. Cameron's photography is often considered to be in the style of this group.
  Part 3 (ans: Oscar Rejlander ("RYE-lander") [or Oscar Gustav Rejlander]):
    This other Victorian photographer created a photomontage called The Two Ways of Life for which he staged each model separately, depicting a man torn between the path of virtue and the path of vice, the latter of which includes scandalously semi-nude women.

[B4] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Joseph Noel Paton depicted these creatures in a work entitled "the painting of the season" by the Royal Scottish Academy in 1850. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fairies [accept fay or fair folk; accept fairy painting]):
    Name these creatures that John Anster Fitzgerald depicted in works like The Captive Robin. A revival of these creatures was speared by Brian Fourd during the early 1970s
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]):
    Fairy paintings were an influence on this later movement led by John Everett Millais, who produced a series of fairy paintings based on The Tempest. Other members of this movement who produced fairy paintings include Dante Gabriel Rosetti.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Dadd):
    This preeminent fairy artist and leader of the Clique created many works as a patient in Bethlem and Broadmoor hospitals. G. H. Haydon commissioned this artist's work The Fairy Feller's Master-Stroke, which was painted during his incarceration for murder.

[B5] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist modeled for Evelyn De Morgan's painting The Love Potion and her own husband's only completed painting, La Belle Iseult. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jane Morris [or Jane Burden; prompt on Morris]):
    Name this embroiderer who modeled for a painting of Proserpine in which the title goddess wears a blue-green dress and holds a pomegranate in her right hand.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]):
    Jane Morris appears in paintings by several of her friends in this British art movement, including William Holman Hunt and Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
  Part 3 (ans: stained glass windows [prompt on glass; prompt on windows]):
    Jane Morris also modeled for several works in this medium by Edward Burne-Jones, who designed them for her husband William. Marc Chagall's works in this medium include some depicting the Twelve Tribes of Israel.

[B6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An unfinished portrait of this man by John Everett Millais was attacked by suffragette Anne Hunt in protest of Emmeline Pankhurst's arrest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Carlyle):
    Name this man who was depicted next to fellow thinker F. D. Maurice in Ford Madox Brown's painting Work. The painting also references Bobus, a corrupt politician created by this man.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    Thomas Carlyle's writings were influential to members of this movement, which John Everett Millais and Ford Madox Brown were associated with.
  Part 3 (ans: The Light of the World):
    Thomas Carlyle's influence on the PRB also includes being one of many models that William Holman Hunt used in this painting, depicting Jesus in a crown and lavish green robes knocking on a door.

[B7] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist moved to Freshwater on the Isle of Wight after visiting their friend Alfred, Lord Tennyson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julia Margaret  Cameron [or Julia Margaret  Pattle ]):
    Name this artist who photographed Alice Liddell as the Roman goddess Pomona and Sir Henry Taylor as King David.
  Part 2 (ans:  Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or the  Pre-Raphaelites ; or  PRB ]):
    Cameron was associated with this artistic group, whose members included William Holman Hunt and Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie  Leibovitz [or Anna-Lou  Leibovitz ]):
    This photographer documented Cameron's cottage in the book Pilgrimage . This photographer's portraits include two nude Vanity Fair covers depicting a nude Demi Moore and several portraits of their lover, Susan Sontag.

[B8] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Portraits of the Muses by Edward Poynter decorate the cornice of this piece, whose front panels are divided into "pagan" and "Christian" sides, the former of which includes a depiction of Pygmalion and Galatea by Simeon Solomon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Great Bookcase):
    Name this large piece of painted furniture designed by William Burges, which was displayed in the Medieval Court at the 1862 London Exposition and is now in the Ashmolean Museum.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [accept Pre-Raphaelites or PRB]):
    Among the 14 painters of the Great Bookcase were several members of this backward-looking Victorian artistic movement, including Solomon, Henry Holiday, and Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
  Part 3 (ans: Edward (Coley) Burne-Jones):
    The depiction of "Art" in the middle gable of the Great Bookcase is by this late-PRB artist, whose paintings include The Golden Stairs and The Beguiling of Merlin.

[B9] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A fresco of Hercules stealing some apples appears in the background of a painting of this woman. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lady of Shalott):
    Name this character from a Tennyson poem, depicted with long, flowy hair in that William Holman Hunt painting. A John William Waterhouse painting depicts this woman riding on a black barge.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    As exemplified by Hunt's Lady of Shalott, many members of this group admired Tennyson's works. These British Romantics sought to return to a style present before a namesake Italian artist.
  Part 3 (ans: Julia Margaret Cameron):
    Tennyson asked this photographer to create illustrations for his collection Idylls of the King. She took close-ups of many Victorians such as John Herschel.

[B10] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Thomas Carlyle and Frederick Maurice watch laborers dig up a street in this painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Work):
    Name this painting by Ford Madox Brown that depicts "navvies" building an underground tunnel in London.
  Part 2 (ans: Tondo):
    Brown's painting The Last of England is this type of painting, characterized by its circular shape. Another example of this type of painting is Fra Angelico's Adoration of the Magi.
  Part 3 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [accept PRB or Pre-Raphaelites]):
    Brown was associated with this British art movement that sought to reject the influence of Mannerism in painting. Members of this group included Dante Gabriel Rossetti and William Holman Hunt.

[B11] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a book titled for this artist's "Dark Night of the Soul," James Spates described his Self-Portrait in Blue Neckcloth as a "portrait of a soul divided." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Ruskin):
    Identify this artist, whose Study of Gneiss ("nice") Rock resembles the backdrop of a portrait of him painted by one of his contemporaries in which he stands in front of a waterfall in Glenfinlas.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or the Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]):
    Ruskin's portrait was painted by John Everett Millais ("mill-LAY"), a member of this "Brotherhood" alongside William Holman Hunt and Edward Burne-Jones. Ruskin encouraged their return to pre-Mannerist composition.
  Part 3 (ans: lilies [accept Sesame and Lilies or Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose]):
    Ruskin produced an oval portrait of Rose La Touche ("toosh"), a student who inspired his treatise titled for Sesame and these objects. These objects appear twice in the title of a painting that depicts Dolly and Polly Barnard lighting paper lanterns.

[B12] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's painting of the Rucellai ("ROO-chell-eye") Madonna being carried through the streets by priests was bought almost immediately by Queen Victoria. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Frederic Leighton [or 1st Baron Leighton]):
    Name this British artist of the painting Cimabue's ("chee-MAH-boo-ay's") Celebrated Madonna. This artist's painting of a long-haired sleeping woman in translucent orange dress is titled Flaming June.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelites [or Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood; or PRB]):
    Leighton was associated with the second generation of this art group whose other members included William Holman Hunt and John Everett Millais ("mill-AY").
  Part 3 (ans: The Lady of Shallot [or Elaine of Astolat; prompt on Elaine] (The poem is by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.)):
    This anguished red-headed woman sits in a boat with some candles and a tapestry in a John William Waterhouse painting of her. The title of another Waterhouse painting quotes a poem about this cursed woman from Arthurian legend, in which she claims to be "half-sick of shadows."

[B13] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Members of this cultural movement formed the majority of the "Fleshly School" identified by Robert Buchanan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood):
    Identify this movement that promoted its ideas in the magazine The Germ. In a poem by a member of this movement, two sisters hear the calls of "come buy, come buy" from the title fruit-selling creatures.
  Part 2 (ans: Rossetti):
    An author with this surname, Christina, wrote the aforementioned poem, titled "Goblin Market." Her brother, Dante Gabriel, illustrated his own poem "The Blessed Damozel."
  Part 3 (ans: Atalanta in Calydon (by Algernon Swinburne)):
    This verse drama in imitation of Greek tragedy, written by a Fleshly School author affiliated with the pre-Raphaelites, depicts a woman who hides her husband's brand to prevent it from being burned in a fire by Althaea. In it, the chorus recites "When the hounds of spring are on winter's traces."

[B14] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The artist's mistress Maria Zambaco was the probable model for the central female figure in this painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Beguiling of Merlin):
    Name this painting in which a woman reads from a magic book as the branches of a hawthorn bush trap an older man behind her.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    The Beguiling of Merlin is by Edward Burne-Jones, a member of this group of English painters that included John Everett Millais, and who tried to mimic the Italian style as it existed before a certain Renaissance painter.
  Part 3 (ans: Christ in the House of His Parents):
    In this painting by John Everett Millais, a red-haired Jesus kisses the cheek of Mary while showing his injured hand, in the foreground of Joseph's workshop.

[B15] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: These artists published their ideas in the periodical The Germ. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or the Pre-Raphaelites; or PRB]):
    Name this English group of artists who rejected the Mannerist style in vogue at the time in favor of a more spiritual, natural, and intense style. Its members included Dante Gabriel Rossetti and William Holman Hunt.
  Part 2 (ans: John Everett Millais):
    This co-founder of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood depicted the titular character surrounded by dark brown water and holding a scattered bouquet of brightly-colored flowers in her hand in Ophelia.
  Part 3 (ans: William Morris):
    This author and social critic studied with Pre-Raphaelites and painted La Belle Iseult in imitation of them. This artist founded Kelmscott Press, which published an edition of Chaucer featuring lavish illustrations by Burne-Jones.

[B16] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The orchard of fruit in this painting was described as for "the dainty feast of the soul." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Light of the World):
    Identify this painting which illustrates a quote from Revelation 3:20. It depicts a crowned Jesus knocking on a door without handles.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    The painter of The Light of the World, William Holman Hunt, was a member of this group of artists that rejected the influence of a specific Italian painter.
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Brown):
    This Pre-Raphaelite artist of the Manchester Murals was inspired by the emigration of his friend Thomas Woolner to create a painting of a couple in a boat called The Last of England.

[B17] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this painting, a teal-clad Mary rests one hand on a chair draped with a pink cloth while opening a box containing the Magi's gifts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Shadow of Death):
    Name this painting that depicts Jesus stretching his arms upward in front of a rack of carpentry tools while standing amid wood shavings. This painting's title comes from the premonition of the crucifixion it contains.
  Part 2 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    The Shadow of Death was painted by this artist of The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple and the satirical Miracle of the Holy Fire. He also depicted Jesus knocking on a door in The Light of the World.
  Part 3 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood (or PRB)):
    Along with John Millais and others, William Holman Hunt belonged to this group of 19th artists which rejected the formalism imposed on art by the Renaissance.

[B18] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One artist from this movement painted the title goddess in a blue robe in his Proserpine, and another painted a man holding out a dove to a child in The Holy Family. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood):
    Name this group of English artists and critics who rejected the mechanistic approach of Mannerist artists.
  Part 2 (ans: The Light of the World):
    This Pre-Raphaelite painting depicts Christ, with a darkened face, carrying a lantern and knocking on an overgrown door.
  Part 3 (ans: Hope):
    The ancillary Pre-Raphaelite painter George Frederic Watts created this allegorical painting, in which a blindfolded woman sits atop a globe, clutching a lyre with one intact string.

[B19] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An exhibit of this art movement at the National Gallery in DC featured a chair designed by Morris and co. and the sculpture Paolo and Francesca by Alexander Munro. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    Name this movement that often depicted Elizabeth Siddall in paintings such as Dante Gabriel Rossetti's Beata Beatrix and John Everett Millais's Ophelia.
  Part 2 (ans: double rainbow [prompt on rainbow]):
    In John Everett Millais's The Blind Girl, the title woman fails to see this rare occurrence displayed above houses in the background, though the child in her clutches gazes back at it.
  Part 3 (ans: Royal Academy of Arts [prompt on RA]):
    The Pre-Raphaelites came up with the charming nickname "Sir Sloshua" for Joshua Reynolds, who founded this institution whose inaugural class included J.M.W. Turner and Edwin Landseer.

[B20] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The members of this movement disliked Sir Joshua Reynolds, and advocating return to a stage of art free of the corrupting influence of the painter of The School of Athens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    Name this English art movement which included William Holman Hunt.
  Part 2 (ans: The Awakening Conscience):
    In this William Holman Hunt painting, a woman jumps up from the lap of her lover, who is sitting in front of a piano. A copy of Edward Lear's arrangement of "Tears, Idle Tears" can be seen on the floor.
  Part 3 (ans: Dante Gabriel Rossetti):
    Another Pre-Raphaelite painter was this man, whose many paintings of Elizabeth Siddal include Beata Beatrix. He also regularly painted Jane Morris and Alexa Wilding. Like his sister, he was also a poet.

[B21] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Jesus Christ holds a lantern and knocks on a weed-choked door in his The Light of the World. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Holman Hunt):
    Name this Victorian painter of The Scapegoat and a picture of a woman rising out the lap of her lover, The Awakening Conscience.
  Part 2 (ans: The Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    William Holman Hunt, along with Dante Gabriel Rossetti, was a member of this British artistic movement, which sought to restore artistic aesthetics to what they were before the painter of The School of Athens.
  Part 3 (ans: Beata Beatrix):
    A sundial stands behind the title green-clad figure, who clenches her eyes shut, while a red dove clutching a poppy sits by her arm in this painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
