=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Pagliacci ===
(Questions where 'Pagliacci' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 14 found, 75 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 22 found, 66 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2023 Purdue IM Housewrite (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: clowns [prompt on actors or circus performers]
  - Variations of an opera about people with this career differ as to whether the final line is delivered by Tonio or Canio.
  - A person with this career sings the aria "Vesti la giubba" while putting on a costume.
  - Desiree sings "isn't it rich?" in a song titled for this career, which is the most famous song from A Little Night Music.
  - The stock character (*) Pierrot(peer-ROE) is a "sad" person with this career.
  - The protagonists of the opera Pagliacci have this career, and Frank Sinatra covered a show tune asking to "send in" people with this career.
  - Julius Fucik's(YOO-lius FOO-chick's) "Entrance of the Gladiators" march is associated with this career.
  - For 10 points, name this career of circus performers with white face paint.

[TM2] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: commedia dell'arte actors [or commedia dell'arte performers; accept clowns or comedians; accept pagliacci or pagliaccio until "Pagliacci" is read; reject "(court) jesters" or "fools"]
  - In a coloratura aria accompanied by piano, a soprano character with this profession sings about her many flings to cheer up a "mighty princess." Another soprano in this profession repeats the words "e van!"  to end an F-sharp major aria in which she trills to imitate birds.
  - An opera company clashes with Zerbinetta and other characters with this profession in Ariadne auf Naxos.
  - A woman with this profession is frightened by the "fire" in her husband's gaze but comforted by screeching birds in the aria (*) "Stridono lassu."  Tonio reminds the audience that people in this profession "are men... like you" in that opera's prologue, which begins with the words, "Si puo?" Another

[TM3] 2021 TELEOLOGY (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Frank Sinatra
  - This recording artist conducted a series of tone poems by twelve different classic Hollywood composers including Victor Young and Andre Previn on an album whose twelve tracks are all titled for different colors.
  - Nicholas Volpe painted the Pagliacci-esque portrait on the cover of a lyrically bleak album by this artist which reflected on both the dissolution of his second marriage and the death of his close collaborator's mother and daughter.
  - This artist wrote from the perspective of an abandoned husband whose wife Elizabeth leaves him for big city life on his folksy 1970 album (*) Watertown.
  - Either Woody Guthrie's Dust Bowl Ballads or a 1946 release titled for "The Voice" of this singer are considered to be the first concept album.
  - A 1955 concept album by this singer featured Nelson Riddle arrangements on tracks like "Glad to Be Unhappy" and "When Your Lover Has Gone" and used standards to tell a loose story of reflecting on lost love late at night.
  - For 10 points, name this traditional pop singer who recorded the album In the Wee Small Hours of the Morning.

[TM4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Italy
  - Near the end of an opera from this country, a character asks his mother for "one more kiss" before bidding "farewell." In that opera from this country, villagers sing an Easter hymn whose melody is later played by the orchestra while the villagers enter a church.
  - A tenor aria written by a composer from this country was the first record to sell over a million copies; in that aria from this country, a performer prepares for a play-within-a-play while singing "put on the costume." A frequently-excerpted (*) intermezzo from an opera from this country is often pe
  - Cavalleria rusticana and Pagliacci are operas from-for 10 points-what country home to Pietro Mascagni and Ruggero Leoncavallo?

[TM5] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Watchmen
  - One character in this work is laughed at after announcing that his wife cheated on him with Fred Motz.
  - A bottle of a perfume called Nostalgia is broken in anger after one character learns her father's identity, which causes the collapse of a castle in this work.
  - One character in this work writes "Good joke.
  - Everybody laugh" about a joke he heard with the punchline (*) "I am Pagliacci." One character in this work decides life has meaning and calls it a "thermodynamic miracle" after fleeing to Mars to escape accusations that he is responsible for the cancer of characters including Janey Slater.
  - Another character in this work cuts up a dress he made for Kitty Genovese to create a mask and has the real name Walter Kovacs.
  - Rorschach discovers Ozymandias' plan for a false flag alien attack on New York in, for 10 points, what graphic novel by Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons?

[TM6] 2019 Scattergories (2019) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: "La commedia e finita" [or "The comedy is finished" or "The comedy is over" or "The comedy has ended"]
  - In the original production, this line was delivered by Victor Maurel, who also delivered the prologue, but most productions assign it to a different character.
  - After this line is delivered, a percussion instrument marked "T.T." in the score and generally assumed to be a tam-tam plays three strokes.
  - In Franco Zeffirelli's 1982 film version, this line is delivered by Juan Pons's character, rather than Placido Domingo's.
  - This line is delivered just after both (*) Nedda and her lover Silvio are stabbed by Canio.
  - This operatic line is similar to a phrase apocryphally attributed to Beethoven as his last words.
  - For 10 points, name the final line of Ruggero Leoncavallo's Pagliacci, which references the traditional ending of commedia dell'arte performances.

[TM7] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cavalleria rusticana [accept Rustic Chivalry until mentioned]
  - During the prelude to this opera, the lead tenor sings the love serenade Silinciana offstage.
  - In this opera, the teamster Alfio sings the jolly aria "Il cavallo scalpita" while cracking his whip.
  - This opera features the aria "Voi lo sapete," which is sung to Mamma Lucia by Santuzza.
  - In this opera the unfaithful soldier (*) Turiddu dies in a duel against Alfio after he sleeps with Lola.
  - This verismo opera was based on a Gionvanni Vergo story, and it is often performed alongside Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  - For 10 points, name this opera by Pietro Mascagni, whose ironic English title is usually rendered as Rustic Chivalry.

[TM8] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: King Zog I of Albania [or Zogu or Ahmet Muhtar Zogolli]
  - Early in his rule, this ruler replaced his entire government in 24 hours with a group of temporary advisors known as the "Marionette Cabinet," after which he staged a series of so-called "spontaneous demonstrations" complete with fireworks shows to release info to his subjects.
  - This ruler was attacked by Beqir Walter, a member of the radical Bashkimi Club, which resulted in the killing of this man's political opponent Avni Rustemi.
  - After this man broke off an engagement, he feared that he would be poisoned and appointed his mother, Sadije (sah-DEE-yeh), to oversee food in the royal kitchen.
  - This man re-entered the theater carrying a pistol after an attempt on his life was made at a Vienna performance of Pagliacci.
  - This ruler's Christmas Eve coup ended the democratizing efforts of Fan Noli.
  - This king was forced to flee his country with his son, Crown Prince Leka, after this man was deposed by Benito Mussolini.
  - For 10 points, name this former prime minister, president, and king of Albania.

[TM9] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cavalleria rusticana [accept Rustic Chivalry]
  - The source material for this opera also served as the basis for Stanislao Gastaldon's Mala Pasqua!.
  - A character in this opera asks "why did you make the sign of silence?" after a scene in which a church chorus sings the Regina Coeli(ray-JEE-nah CHEL-ee) while a group of villagers sing an Easter hymn.
  - The opening credits of Raging Bull are set to this opera's intermezzo.
  - A party in this opera that begins with a character singing "Hail to the bubbling wine" ends with that character (*) biting his rival's ear.
  - In this opera's aria "Voi lo sapete", Lucia learns of her son's adultery from Santuzza.
  - Often considered the first verismo opera, it is regularly performed on a double bill with Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  - An offstage duel between Alfio and Turiddu ends, for 10 points, which opera by Pietro Mascagni?

[TM10] 2017 FRENCH (2017) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: King Zog I of Albania (or Ahmet Muhtar Zogolli)
  - This ruler had his mother Sadije  supervise the royal kitchen because he feared being poisoned.
  - This man purchased the massive Knollwood Manor in New York, but never occupied it.
  - This ruler survived an assassination attempt while at a performance of Pagliacci in Vienna, leading to the expulsion from the city of all political emigres from his country.
  - This man's namesake salute consists of placing one's right hand over the heart with the palm facing down.
  - This leader nationalized all Catholic schools in his country and slashed the national budget in an attempt to shake off (*) Italian economic domination.
  - Claiming to be the many times great-grand-nephew of Skanderbeg, for 10 points, name this most recent king of Albania deposed by Mussolini's Italy.

[TM11] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cavalleria rusticana (or Rustic Chivalry)
  - In one aria in this opera, a man claims that snow and rain do not matter to him because his wife "waits for him at home." At the beginning of this opera, a group of villagers sing "Gli aranci olezzano" after one character says that his love is "lovely as the spring's bright blooms." That character l
  - For 10 points, name this opera which ends with Turiddu's death in a duel over Lola, a verismo work of Pietro Mascagni which is often paired with Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.

[TM12] 2013 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]
  - After being stood up by the protagonist, one character in this opera is not allowed to enter the town church and sings the aria Voi Lo Sapete.
  - The music from this opera's intermezzo is played at the finale of The Godfather, Part III.
  - The mother of one of this opera's protagonists runs a wine shop at which one character accepts a challenge by biting the challenger's ear.
  - At this opera's beginning, one character returns from a war to find that his fiance has since (*) married another man, after which he decides to flirt with another girl.
  - At the end of this opera, Lucia comforts Stanuzza after her brief lover, Turiddu, gets killed in a duel by Alfio.
  - For 10 points, name this verismo opera often performed paired with Leoncavallo's I Pagliacci, composed by Pietro Mascagni.

[TM13] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]
  - This opera's intermezzo plays when Michael Corleone screams while clutching his daughter Mary's dead body in The Godfather, Part Three.
  - In its first scene, a church choir sings the Easter hymn Regina Coeli before a woman outside the church describes how she was seduced in the aria "Voi lo sapete." It made its composer instantly famous after it won Edoardo Sonzogno's (*) one-act opera competition in 1890.
  - Often performed on a double bill with Pagliacci, this opera ends with Santuzza's lover Turiddu being killed in a duel by Alfio.
  - Based on a short story by Giovanni Verga, for 10 points, name this verismo opera by Pietro Mascagni.

[TM14] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Benya Krik [accept either; prompt on The King before read]
  - This character's red car has a horn that plays the march from Pagliacci.
  - In one appearance, he ensures that a police raid does not interrupt the wedding festivities of his forty-year-old, goiter-laden sister by burning down the police station during the party.
  - Political upheaval described in the story "The End of the Almshouse" leads to the deaths of several of this man's associates in the (*) story "Froim Grach." Reb Arye-Leib recounts a story about this man in which he earns his nickname by throwing a lavish funeral upon the murder of clerk Joseph Mugin
  - He marries Tsilya Eichbaum after shaking down her father, and his relationship with his own father Mendel provides the plot of the play Sunset.
  - This Moldavanka denizen, also known as "The King," earned his chops by robbing the "Yid-and-a-Half" Tartakovsky.
  - FTP, name this Ukrainian gangster central to Isaac Babel's Odessa Tales.

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these two characters growls, "La pagherai! Brigante!" in anger after the other rebuffs him from helping a woman dismount a cart. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Canio OR Tonio [prompt on Pagliaccio or Taddeo; reject "clown"]):
    Name either of these two characters who may sing the closing line "la commedia e finita!" after the stabbing of Nedda. These two characters appear in an opera often performed as a double bill with Cavalleria Rusticana.
  Part 2 (ans: "si puo" ("see pwoh") [or "Si puo?"; or "Si puo morir"]):
    Tonio, in character as Taddeo, sings these two Italian words twice to the audience's "ladies" and "gentlemen" to kick off the prologue of Pagliacci ("pall-YAH-chee"). These two words precede "morir" four times in the final stanza of "Una furtiva lagrima."
  Part 3 (ans: tenor [or tenore; accept spinto tenor; accept dramatic tenor]):
    Enrico Caruso and Luciano Pavarotti are among the most celebrated singers with this voice type to have played Canio.

[BM2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer included the "Octopus aria" in an opera that opens with an invisible choir singing a "Hymn to the Sun" and involves Osaka's plot to kidnap the title character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pietro Mascagni):
    Name this composer of the opera Iris. This composer wrote a verismo opera in which Alfio kills Turiddu in a duel, which is often performed alongside a fellow composer's opera Pagliacci.
  Part 2 (ans: soprano):
    In Cavalleria Rusticana, the aria "Voi lo sapete" is sung by Santuzza, who sings in this vocal range. Coloratura and spinto are classifications for this highest standard vocal type.
  Part 3 (ans: L'amico Fritz):
    In this other Mascagni opera, the title character and Suzel sing the Act 2 "Cherry Duet." This opera's title character is a wealthy landowner who is comforted by Beppe and Federico.

[BM3] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Intermezzo from this opera plays behind the opening and closing credits to Raging Bull. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]):
    Name this opera that is set entirely in the main square of a village on Easter morning. This opera depicts the relationship between Turiddu, who is returning from military service, and his fiancee Lola.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruggero Leoncavallo):
    Because they are both short Italian verismo operas, Pietro Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana and this other composer's opera Pagliacci are commonly staged together as a "Cav/Pag" double bill.
  Part 3 (ans: clowns [prompt on actor or acting; prompt on commedia dell'arte or comedy or circus or carnival]):
    Pagliacci is titled for this profession of the main character Canio and his troupe. In the aria "Vesti la Giubba," Canio puts on his makeup and costume after singing to "laugh, [this profession], at your broken love!"

[BM4] 2023 ACF Fall (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In an aria from this opera, the title character sings how she "never harmed a living soul" and asks God "why do you reward me thus?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tosca):
    Name this opera that includes the aria "Vissi d'arte" ("vee-see DAR-tay") and ends with the title character jumping off of Castel Sant'Angelo to her death after murdering Baron Scarpia.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    Tosca is an example of this Italian genre of opera that focuses on the average man and woman. Other operas in this genre include Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana ("ka-va-LAIR-ia roos-ti-KAH-na") and Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  Part 3 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    This Italian verismo composer created Tosca as well as the operas Madame Butterfly and Turandot.

[BM5] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The spy Kim Philby betrayed Operation Valuable, a plan to restore this leader to power, and he was overthrown in the Revolution of June 24th after being widely blamed for the assassination of Avni Rustemi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zog I [or Naltmadhnija e tij Zogu I, Mbreti i Shqiptareve; accept Ahmed Muhtar Bey Zogolli]):
    Name this leader, who then quickly used a mercenary army and the unpopularity of Fan Noli's "Twenty-Point Program" to return to power. He was nearly assassinated while watching Pagliacci at the Vienna State Opera.
  Part 2 (ans: (Republic of) Albania [or Shqiperia; accept Republika e Shqiperise or Mbretnija Shqiptare]):
    Zog I crowned himself king of this Balkan country before Mussolini invaded it in World War II. Zog was barred from this Muslim-majority country by its bunker-loving communist leader, Enver Hoxha ("HOH-juh").
  Part 3 (ans: Durres [accept Dyrrachium or Dyrrhachion; accept Epidamnos; accept Durazzo]):
    The Great Power's ineffectual original choice for King of Albania, William of Wied ("VEED"), ruled from this city until the Congress of Lushnje ("LUSH-nyuh"). Lodewijk ("loh-deh-WIKE") Thomson died defending this city from Haxhi Qamili's ("HAH-jee CHYAH-muh-lee's") pro-Ottoman peasant revolt.

[BM6] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera was controversially referred to as a "shabby little shocker" by musicologist Joseph Kerman in his 1956 book Opera as Drama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tosca):
    Name this opera. After Kerman's scathing remarks, the conductor Thomas Beecham responded by saying that anything Kerman says about this opera's composer "can safely be ignored."
  Part 2 (ans: Giacomo Puccini [or Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini]):
    Tosca is an opera by this composer. The Jonathan Larson musical Rent is based on his opera La boheme.
  Part 3 (ans: Enrico Caruso):
    Puccini considered casting this young operatic tenor as Cavaradossi for the premiere of Tosca, but selected the older Emilio De Marchi instead, which he later regretted. This Italian tenor sold over a million copies of his recordings of "Vesti la giubba" ("VESS-tee la JOOB-bah") from Pagliacci ("pah

[BM7] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Give these Italian operatic terms, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    This movement, exemplified by Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana and Leoncavallo's Pagliacci, emphasized portraying life as it is, often with lower-class characters.
  Part 2 (ans: tessitura):
    This term, which comes from the Italian for "weaving," refers to the range of a piece where the majority of the singer's notes lie or where the singer is most comfortable.
  Part 3 (ans: castrato [or castrati]):
    Carlo Broschi, also known as Farinielli, was among the most celebrated of these male singers, whose testes were cut off before puberty to preserve their high voices.

[BM8] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | History
     Leadin: While a circus acrobat named Otto Witte claimed to have briefly attained this position by impersonating the nephew of the Ottoman sultan, no one mentioned in his story exists to corroborate his account. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: king of Albania [prompt on ruler of Albania; do not accept or prompt on "president of Albania" or "prime minister of Albania"] (The king is Zog I.)):
    Name this position. Its only legitimate holder underwent 55 assassination attempts motivated by blood feuds, including one in which he returned with his own pistol after an attempt on his life at a showing of Pagliacci.
  Part 2 (ans: Benito Mussolini [or Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini]):
    The great king Zog was forced to abdicate after the invasion of Albania by this World War II-era Italian fascist known as Il Duce ("DOO-chay").
  Part 3 (ans: concrete bunkers [accept nuclear bunkers; accept bunkeret;prompt on fortifications or bomb shelters; prompt on pillboxes]):
    Zog's effective successor was the communist Enver Hoxha ("HO-juh"), who built 170,000 of these structures throughout Albania. Devices known as "busters" of these structures are designed to penetrate into the ground before detonation.

[BM9] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the so-called "Octopus" aria, one of this composer's characters seems to describe the infamous artwork The Dream of The Fisherman's Wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pietro Mascagni (mah-SKAHN-yee)):
    Name the operatic composer, whose works include L'amico Fritz and the aforementioned Iris.
  Part 2 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]):
    Mascagni is by far best known for composing this classic verismo opera, which is often performed on a "Cav-Pag" double-bill with Leoncavallo's I Pagliacci (EE pall-YAH-chee). It also includes a celebrated intermezzo.
  Part 3 (ans: Turiddu):
    After returning from the army, this protagonist of Cavalleria Rusticana sleeps with Santuzza, which leads to him being killed by Alfio in a duel.

[BM10] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Emilio de Cavalieri and Jacopo Peri collaborated on a set of works in this genre to accompany Girolamo Bargagli's ("bar-GAHL-yee's") La Pellegrina for the 1589 marriage of Ferdinand I de Medici and Christine de Lorraine. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: intermezzo [or intermezzi or intermedio or intermedi]):
    Name these precursors of opera buffa ("BOO-fuh") performed between the acts of opera seria. The "War of the Buffoons" was caused by Giovanni Pergolesi's La Serva Padrona, one of these works paired with Il Prigionier ("pree-joh-NYAIR") Superbo.
  Part 2 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana):
    This verismo opera by Pietro Mascagni ("mah-SKON-yee"), often double-billed with Ruggero Leoncavallo's Pagliacci ("pahl-YAH-chee"), contains an oft-excerpted instrumental intermezzo that Martin Scorsese used in Raging Bull's opening.
  Part 3 (ans: Baldassare Galuppi):
    Many of this composer's dramma giocoso written with Carlo Goldoni, such as L'Arcadia in Brenta and Arcifanfano Re dei matti, were performed as intermezzi in Rome. This native of Burano, who had earlier worked with Metastasio on many opera seria, also composed a number of harpsichord sonatas and conc

[BM11] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The one-act opera I Pagliacci was composed in this style by Ruggero Leoncavallo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: verismo):
    Identify this analogue of realism in Italian opera, whose key composers include Pietro Mascagni and Umberto Giordano.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrea Chenier):
    In this Verismo opera by Umberto Giordano, Madeleine offers her body to the evil Gerard in an attempt to save her lover. It was once staged on a floating stage on Lake Constance.
  Part 3 (ans: "La mamma morta"):
    Madeleine offers her body in this soprano aria that includes the lines "A dying body is my body/ So take it./ I am already dead matter." The Maria Callas version of it was used in the film Philadelphia.

[BM12] 2017 British Novice (2017) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera is perhaps best known for its very beautiful Intermezzo, which plays before Alfio and Turiddu fight a climactic duel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana [accept "Rustic Chivalry"]):
    Name this Pietro Mascagni opera about adultery in rural Sicily, often performed in a double bill with Ruggero Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    Cavalleria Rusticana is considered one of the great examples of this operatic tradition. Whereas Romantic operas often concerned gods, kings and mythological stories, operas in this Italian style focused on the lives of ordinary people.
  Part 3 (ans: Giuseppe Verdi):
    La Traviata is sometimes considered a precursor to the verismo movement. It is a work of this Italian composer, who is also known for operas such as Aida, Nabucco and Il Trovatore.

[BM13] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This performer shot to international prominence after singing "Ol' Man River" in the film adaptation of Show Boat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paul Leroy Robeson):
    Name this African-American singer and actor who was blacklisted for his communist sympathies and frequent visits to the Soviet Union.
  Part 2 (ans: spirituals [accept Negro spirituals]):
    Robeson often recorded these religious songs, hymns commonly performed in African American churches. Examples of them include "Goin' Home," "Wade in the Water" and "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot."
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Todd Duncan):
    This African American baritone and contemporary of Robeson originated the role of Porgy in Porgy and Bess. He became the first African American operatic singer to perform with an all-white cast as Tonio in a 1934 New York City Opera production of IPagliacci.

[BM14] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Enrico Caruso's 1902 recording of this aria was the first record to sell over 1 million copies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Vesti la giubba"):
    Name this aria sung by a character who has just learned that his wife, Nedda, is cheating on him. Although the singer of this aria encourages himself to put on his make-up despite his sadness, he ends this aria in tears.
  Part 2 (ans: I Pagliacci):
    Canio sings "Vesti la giubba" in this Ruggero Leoncavallo-composed verismo opera about a commedia dell'arte troupe.
  Part 3 (ans: Dame Nellie Melba [or Helen Porter Mitchell]):
    This soprano performed as Nedda in the well-received 1893 Covent Garden staging of Pagliacci. She was Covent Garden's chief soprano for most of the late 19th century and famously refused to sing in German-language operas.

[BM15] 2015 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man conducted the premieres of La Bohème and I Pagliacci and angered audiences by darkening the theater during a production of Tristan and Isolde. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    Name this Italian conductor known for his forceful, dynamic style and strict tempos. He became a household name as conductor of the NBC Symphony Orchestra from 1937 to 1954.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Osmond Barber II):
    Toscanini conducted the premiere of this composer's First Essay for Orchestra and his Adagio for Strings, adapted from his string quartet. This American composer set a text by James Agee in Knoxville: Summer of 1915.
  Part 3 (ans: it is in one movement [accept word forms and synonyms]):
    Barber's first symphony has this distinctive formal characteristic, which it shares with Sibelius's Symphony No. 7 and Roy Harris's Symphony No. 3.

[BM16] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An opera in this style includes a frequently-excerpted Intermezzo that plays before Turiddu and Alfio duel to the death over the unfaithful Lola. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: verismo [prompt on realism]):
    Name this style of opera which centers on struggles in average daily life, such as in Pietro Mascagni's Cavalleria rusticana.
  Part 2 (ans: Pagliacci):
    In this verismo opera by Ruggero Leoncavallo, Canio sings "Vesti la giubba" as he is forced to smile and put on a show, even though he has just discovered his wife Nedda's infidelity.
  Part 3 (ans: tenor [or Three Tenors]):
    The title protagonist of Pagliacci is scored for this high male vocal range which sits above a baritone. Luciano Pavarotti was a member of a group of "Three" of these singers.

[BM17] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera begins with a prologue delivered by Tonio, who is dressed as Taddeo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pagliacci [or Clowns]):
    Name this opera in which Canio, a performer playing one of the title roles, goes insane as he realizes his wife, Nedda, is having an affair. It contains the aria "vesti la giubba," or "put on the costume."
  Part 2 (ans: Nellie Melba):
    The London premiere of Pagliacci featured this woman in the role of Nedda. This super famous Australian soprano disliked singing German opera. She also lends her name to a dessert.
  Part 3 (ans: Giacomo Puccini):
    Melba also was noted for her performances as Mimi in this composer's opera La boheme. This Italian also composed Madame Butterfly.

[BM18] 2014 Introductory Collaborative Collegiate Set (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: At the end of this opera, Canio faces the audience and exclaims "La commedia e finita!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pagliacci):
    Name this opera by Ruggero Leoncavallo, which is about some clowns. Its arias include "Vesti la giubba."
  Part 2 (ans: Italy):
    Leoncavallo is from this country, the birthplace of opera. Claudio Monteverdi, also from here, wrote the early operas The Coronation of Poppea and L'Orfeo.
  Part 3 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]):
    Pagliacci is often performed with this other opera by Pietro Mascagni, in which Turridu's affairs with Santuzza and Lola lead to trouble. Its Intermezzo is often performed separately.

[BM19] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, Santuzza details her seduction in "Voi le sapete", shortly after the singing of the Easter hymn. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria Rusticana [or Rustic Chivalry]):
    Name this one-act opera by Pietro Mascagni, in which hot-blooded Sicilians Turiddu and Alfio duel over Lola. It is often paired in performance with Leoncavallo's Pagliacci.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo):
    Cavalleria Rusticana and Pagliacci are operas in this style, defined by its realistic and often violent depictions of unromanticized everyday life.
  Part 3 (ans: "Vesti la giubba"):
    In this aria from Pagliacci, Canio tells himself to laugh, in spite of his misfortune, as he applies his make-up. Caruso's recording of it was the first record to sell a million copies.

[BM20] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: He conducted the world premiers of Pagliacci, La boheme, and Turandot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arturo Toscanini):
    Name this first music director of the NBC Symphony Orchestra, an Italian conductor known for his photographic memory, his brisk and direct conducting style, and his fidelity to the written score.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City):
    From 1928 to 1936, Toscanini was music director of the philharmonic of this city, a position also held by Pierre Boulez and Zubin Mehta. The orchestra plays in this city's Lincoln Center.
  Part 3 (ans: Wilhelm Furtwangler):
    Toscanini's stylistic opposite and artistic rival was said to be this principal conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic from 1922 to 1945, known for his broad and highly flexible tempi.

[BM21] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, set on Easter morning, the male lead has seduced Santuzza to get back at his old girlfriend, leading her to seek comfort with Lucia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cavalleria rusticana or Rustic Chivalry):
    Name this opera by Pietro Mascagni which narrates the story of Lola, Santuzza, and the men who duel over them. It is based on a short story by Giovanni Verga.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo):
    Like Pagliacci, with which it is often paired, Cavalleria rusticana belongs to this genre of Italian opera which focuses on depicting realistic emotions and characters. Verdi is often considered the supreme composer of it.
  Part 3 (ans: Turiddu):
    This man, Lucia's son, is the male lead of Cavalleria rusticana. He bites his rival Alfio's ear to instigate a fight to the death, which he then loses.

[BM22] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera's third act, the title character sings "Depuis le jour" and is crowned Queen of Montmartre by a group of Bohemians. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louise):
    Name this opera by Gustave Charpentier about the title seamstress's love for the artist Julien.
  Part 2 (ans: verismo opera):
    Louise is often considered a French example of this type of opera, which focuses on realistic subjects and became popular in the late 19th century. In Italy, examples of this type of opera include Pagliacci and Cavalleria Rusticana.
  Part 3 (ans: Andrea Chenier):
    In this verismo opera, the title poet is guillotined along with his lover Maddalena during the French Revolution. It features the aria "La mamma morta," and was composed by Umberto Giordano.
