=== STOCK CLUES: Pagliacci ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 22 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: commedia dell'arte actors [or commedia dell'arte performers; accept clowns or comedians; accept pagliacci or pagliaccio until "Pagliacci" is read; reject "(court) jesters" or "fools"]
  - In a coloratura aria accompanied by piano, a soprano character with this profession sings about her many flings to cheer up a "mighty princess." Another soprano in this profession repeats the words "e van!"  to end an F-sharp major aria in which she trills to imitate birds. [PWR]
  - An opera company clashes with Zerbinetta and other characters with this profession in Ariadne auf Naxos. [PWR]
  - A woman with this profession is frightened by the "fire" in her husband's gaze but comforted by screeching birds in the aria (*) "Stridono lassu."  Tonio reminds the audience that people in this profession "are men... like you" in that opera's prologue, which begins with the words, "Si puo?" Another character with this profession stabs his wife Nedda and her lover Silvio before declaring, "La commedia e finita!" Canio sings "Vesti la giubba"  before going to work as, for 10 points, what title profession of Ruggero Leoncavallo's opera Pagliacci ? [PWR,GIVE]

[T2] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: I Pagliacci [accept The Clowns until "clowns" is read]
  - In a scene from this opera, a choir sings the words "don, din, don" to mimic the sound of vesper bells.
  - A character in this opera furiously repeats "il nome! il nome!" after discovering two lovers planning to run away at midnight.
  - The audience is asked to "mark well our souls...for we are men...like you" by a single character on stage in a "prologue" to this opera.
  - That character from this opera overhears a woman imitating birdsong as she sings the aria "Stridono lassu." Tonio exposes an affair in this opera to a character who shouts "La commedia e finita!" after stabbing his wife Nedda and her lover Silvio.
  - Canio sings the aria "Vesti la giubba" in, for 10 points, what verismo opera by Ruggero Leoncavallo about a troupe of clowns? [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: I Pagliacci [or Clowns]
  - Stephen Barlow changed the setting of this opera to the 1970s in his current production of it.
  - Foreboding ensues after one character offers to stay behind to groom a donkey.
  - Another character in this opera, which takes place on the Feast of the Assumption, picks up a bullwhip to ward off the advances of a lovestruck man and joins in with a singing bird in the aria "Stridono lassu." That character is stabbed to death in this opera's second act, after which her killer declares that "the comedy is over." Canio laments having to act jovial despite being tormented by Nedda's infidelity in this opera's aria "Vesti la Giubba." For 10 points, name this opera that dramatizes the love affairs within a group of circus performers, by Ruggero Leoncavallo. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Pagliacci [or I Pagliacci; or Players; or Clowns]
  - One character in this work sings a ballatella about the freedom of the birds in the scene following the "Bell Chorus." In another scene, a character shouts "Name of God!
  - Those same words" after hearing a woman say "I will always be yours!" for the second time.
  - After discovering his wife's infidelity, one character tells himself to "laugh at the grief that poisons your heart" and perform the aria's title action "because people have paid money and want to be amused." That aria, "Vesti la giubba," is sung by Canio, who stabs Nedda while she is playing the role of Columbine.
  - For 10 points, name this Leoncavallo opera frequently performed alongside Cavalleria Rusticana. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: I Pagliacci [accept "Clowns" before the last word of the tossup]
  - A recording by Enrico Caruso of one aria from this opera was the first record in history to sell a million copies.
  - The Intermezzo of this opera echoes the baritone solo that opened it.
  - The lead soprano in this opera sings an aria in admiration of birds in the sky, "Stridono lassu".
  - One character is angered by another saying "I am yours always" as Colombina to a character playing Arlecchino in a play within this opera.
  - At the beginning of this opera, the protagonist warns Tonio not to pursue his wife Nedda.
  - This opera's protagonist, Canio, sings the aria "Vesti la Giubba" as he puts on his costume at the end of Act I.
  - For 10 points, name this Leoncavallo opera typically paired with Cavalleria Rusticana that is about a clown. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these two characters growls, "La pagherai! Brigante!" in anger after the other rebuffs him from helping a woman dismount a cart. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Canio OR Tonio [prompt on Pagliaccio or Taddeo; reject "clown"]):
    Name either of these two characters who may sing the closing line "la commedia e finita!" after the stabbing of Nedda. These two characters appear in an opera often performed as a double bill with Cavalleria Rusticana.
  Part 2 (ans: "si puo" ("see pwoh") [or "Si puo?"; or "Si puo morir"]):
    Tonio, in character as Taddeo, sings these two Italian words twice to the audience's "ladies" and "gentlemen" to kick off the prologue of Pagliacci ("pall-YAH-chee"). These two words precede "morir" four times in the final stanza of "Una furtiva lagrima."
  Part 3 (ans: tenor [or tenore; accept spinto tenor; accept dramatic tenor]):
    Enrico Caruso and Luciano Pavarotti are among the most celebrated singers with this voice type to have played Canio.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This aria includes a tradition of letting the voice crack in a sob-note at its climax. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Vesti la giubba" [prompt on "Put on the Costume" or "On With the Motley"]):
    Name this aria in which Canio bemoans having to perform immediately after hearing of his wife's infidelity. This aria's title expresses the sentiment that "the show must go on."
  Part 2 (ans: clown [accept Pagliacci or il pagliacco; prompt on pierrot or commedia dell'arte actor; prompt on circus performer]):
    Canio is a member of this profession, which titles the Leoncavallo opera in which he appears. In "Vesti la giubba," he puts on the makeup of this profession and tells himself to "turn your distress and tears into jokes."
  Part 3 (ans: Enrico Caruso):
    This tenor's 1902 recording of "Vesti la giubba" was the first record to sell more than a million copies. This prolific Italian tenor was extorted by two Black Hand gangsters, whom he later helped apprehend.

[B3] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Enrico Caruso's 1902 recording of this aria was the first record to sell over 1 million copies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Vesti la giubba"):
    Name this aria sung by a character who has just learned that his wife, Nedda, is cheating on him. Although the singer of this aria encourages himself to put on his make-up despite his sadness, he ends this aria in tears.
  Part 2 (ans: I Pagliacci):
    Canio sings "Vesti la giubba" in this Ruggero Leoncavallo-composed verismo opera about a commedia dell'arte troupe.
  Part 3 (ans: Dame Nellie Melba [or Helen Porter Mitchell]):
    This soprano performed as Nedda in the well-received 1893 Covent Garden staging of Pagliacci. She was Covent Garden's chief soprano for most of the late 19th century and famously refused to sing in German-language operas.

[B4] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This suite was later adapted into an opera about the lovers Rosario and Fernando. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Goyescas, Los Majos Enamorados, Opus 11):
    Name this piano suite that includes "Compliments" and a "Ballad of Love and Death." It was written by Enrique Granados.
  Part 2 (ans: I Pagliacci):
    Granados's operatic version of Goyescas premiered on a double bill with this opera, which ends with Canio singing "Vesti la giubba" after stabbing his wife and her lover.
  Part 3 (ans: New York City [accept NYC] [Both operas premiered at the Met.]):
    Goyescas premiered at an opera in this city with tenor Giovanni Martinelli as Fernando and baritone Giuseppi De Luca as Paquiro. Three years later, De Luca premiered Puccini's Gianni Schicchi at an opera in this city.

[B5] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This aria is sung after one character discovers that his love agrees to run away with Silvio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Vesti la giubba" [or "Put on your costume" or equivalents]):
    Name this aria that exhorts its singer to "Turn [his] distress and tears into jest." It is sung by Canio in Act I of the opera it appears in.
  Part 2 (ans: I Pagliacci [or The Clowns]):
    "Vesti la giubba" appears in this opera about a bunch of costumed performers by Ruggero Leoncavallo.
  Part 3 (ans: Tonio):
    This other character confesses his love to Nedda, but it is ultimately rejected. At the beginning of the opera, he addresses the audience in the aria "Si puo?," reminding them that the actors are actually human.

[B6] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title character of this opera dies after sniffing poisoned flowers sent by her rival, who also loves Maurizio. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adriana Lecouvreur):
    Name this opera whose central conflict stems from a love triangle involving the Princess of Bouillon, the Count of Saxony, and the title actress.
  Part 2 (ans: Umberto Menotti Maria Giordano):
    Like Francesco Cilea, the composer of Adriana Lecouvreur, this composer is best known for his repertoire of verismo works, including one that ends with Maddalena going to the guillotine with her lover, the poet Andrea Chenier.
  Part 3 (ans: I Pagliacci):
    A more famous example of verismo is this Ruggero Leoncavallo opera, in which Canio sings "Vesti la giubba" after discovering that his wife Nedda has been unfaithful.
