=== STOCK CLUES: Immaculate Conception ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 6 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 4 found, 12 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Immaculate Conception of Virgin Mary [prompt on Conception of Mary or birth of Mary]
  - Pope Sixtus VI was the first to introduce a feast day for this event in Rome and described its main event as "miraculous" rather than using the adjective more commonly applied to it. [PWR]
  - Both Bernard of Clairvaux and St. [PWR]
  - Thomas Aquinas criticized this doctrine, the latter arguing that it could not have happened "before the infusion of a rational soul" in Summa Theologica. [PWR]
  - The ex cathedra bull that defined this doctrine argued that it follows from its subject being described as "full of grace." That bull, Ineffabilis Deus, was issued on the day of the "Feast" of this doctrine - (*) December 8th - by Pope Pius IV. [PWR]
  - This doctrine effectively states that the person referred to as theotokos could not have transferred a curse inherited from Adam and Eve.
  - For 10 points, name this doctrine which states that the Virgin Mary was never affected by original sin, because she was born without it. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: Gennadios Scholarios wrote, "Lord deliver us from" this thinker's "dialectic," suggesting that his theology was too reliant on pagan philosophy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saint Augustine of Hippo [or Aurelius Augustinus Hipponensis; accept Saint Austin]):
    Name this thinker whom Orthodox theologians like John Romanides brand a heresiarch because his authority justified errors like the filioque and the doctrine of original sin, which he taught to combat Pelagian heretics.
  Part 2 (ans: Immaculate Conception):
    Romanides rejected the Western view of an inherited "stain" of sin as heresy, implying that this doctrine is superfluous. This Catholic doctrine holds that Mary was conceived without original sin.
  Part 3 (ans: Barlaam [accept Barlaam of Calabria or Barlaam of Seminara]):
    Romanides identified the "unbelievable nonsense" of this Calabrian monk as Augustinian. After condemning the hesychast monks of Athos as polytheists in 1337, this thinker was defeated by Gregory Palamas in several synods.

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Guido Reni's Saint Michael the Archangel Defeats Satan appears at the entrance to a church dedicated to this subject, which features a crypt with ornamental art crafted from the bones of Capuchin monks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Immaculate Conception [accept Santa Maria della Concezione dei Cappuccini]):
    Name this scene. Bartolome Murillo ("moo-REE-yoh") painted many "vaporous" depictions of this scene, including one in which the central figure stands on a crescent moon while surrounded by tons of cherubs.
  Part 2 (ans: Barberini [accept Allegory of Divine Providence and Barberini Power; accept Palazzo Barberini; accept Barberini Faun]):
    Reni's Saint Michael was commissioned by this family. A Pietro da Cortona fresco in this family's Palazzo references the three bees on their coat of arms, and they name a statue of a faun with splayed legs leaning back.
  Part 3 (ans: cards [accept gambling] (The unnamed painting is The Cardsharps)):
    Late in his career, Reni began producing rushed works to compensate for his addiction to this activity. Two men, one of whom reaches behind his back into his belt, cheat a third man at this activity in a Caravaggio ("care-uh-VAH-joh") painting.

[B3] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A stairway, a mirror, and a single star appear in the gaps of the cloud cover in a painting of this subject by Francisco de Zurbaran. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Immaculate Conception):
    Name this religious subject that Western artists struggled to depict until the mid-17th century, when the Spanish painter Francisco de Pacheco codified an iconography showing a teenage girl standing on a translucent crescent moon.
  Part 2 (ans: Diego Velazquez [or Diego Rodriguez de Silva y Velazquez]):
    This son-in-law of Pacheco painted Mary wearing a bronze tunic in his best-known version of the Immaculate Conception. Columns of lances dominate the upper right of this man's painting The Surrender of Breda.
  Part 3 (ans: Bartolome (Esteban) Murillo):
    References to the Marian litanies are absent from the nearly twenty versions of the Immaculate Conception created by this artist, who painted the beggars and street urchins of his native Seville.

[B4] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: On this feast day, blue vestments are allowed in Spain and former Spanish territories, recognizing that the event commemorated is considered the national patroness of Spain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Feast of the Immaculate Conception):
    Name this penultimate holy day of obligation in the modern Catholic Church, a feast that falls on December 8.
  Part 2 (ans: Blessed Virgin Mary [or Miriam or Maria or Maryam; accept answers that indicate Mary, mother of Jesus or similar; Marian Feasts]):
    The Feast of the Immaculate Conception is one of the most important feasts celebrating this woman. Her life is also celebrated in the Feast of the Assumption and the Feast of the Annunciation.
  Part 3 (ans: St. James the Moor-Slayer [or St. James Matamoros or Santiago Matamoros; prompt on "Santiago"]):
    The Immaculate Conception was declared patroness of Spain in 1760, resolving a conflict between followers of Teresa of Avila and followers of this legendary incarnation of St. James, who supposedly helped the Spaniards win the likely apocryphal Battle of Clavijo.
