=== STOCK CLUES: Gerhard Richter ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 The World As It Is (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gerhard Richter
  - In 1994, this artist used a carpet knife to divide a painting into 64 squares that were each then sold under the title Souvenir. [PWR]
  - A fictionalized version of this artist was the subject of Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck's film Never Look Away. [PWR]
  - The last-ever exhibition at the Met Breuer was this artist's COVID-shortened retrospective called Painting After All, which featured four abstract works titled Birkenau. [PWR]
  - Curator Hans Ulrich Obrist edited a book about a (*) grid of five-by-five paintings by this artist arranged by chance; he also used chance for his design for the stained-glass windows in the Cologne Cathedral. [PWR]
  - Some works by this artist were made by applying multiple layers of paint and then wiping off portions with a squeegee, including a series named for John Cage.
  - For 10 points, name this German artist known for his blurry photo-paintings. [GIVE]

[T2] 2017 PACE NSC (2017) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Germany [or Weimar Republic; or East Germany; or West Germany; or German Democratic Republic; or GDR; or DDR; or Federal Republic of Germany; or FRG; or Bonn Republic] [The contemporary artist is Gerhard Richter.]
  - An artist born in this country painted a woman glancing at a newspaper in a crystal ball in the left panel of his triptych The Departure and showed a man being hanged in a cramped tent in his 1919 painting The Night. [PWR]
  - A contemporary artist from this country created a series of grid paintings called 4900 Colors and also made a series of blurred "photo-paintings". [PWR]
  - A Swiss-born artist published the Pedagogical Sketchbook while teaching at a design school in this country led by (*) Walter Gropius. [PWR]
  - The creator of the Street Scenes cycle co-founded a proto-Expressionist movement in this country whose name translates as "the bridge".
  - For 10 points, Max Beckmann and Ernst Kirchner were among the artists labeled "degenerate" by what country's Nazi regime? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: John Baeder's paintings of roadside diners exemplify an artistic style named after resembling this medium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: photography [or word forms such as photographs or photos or taking photographs; accept Photorealism or word forms such as Photorealists; prompt on pictures; prompt on cameras]):
    Name this artistic medium that is emulated by hyperrealistic artworks. Modern-day works in this medium are often produced by DSLRs from companies such as Nikon.
  Part 2 (ans: California [or CA]):
    The Photorealist artists Robert Bechtle and Ralph Goings depicted scenes of everyday life in this state in the late 1960s. David Hockney's A Bigger Splash depicts a swimming pool in this state.
  Part 3 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    This artist used a characteristic blur effect to create "photo-paintings" such as Ema. This German "capitalist realist" designed a pixelated stained glass window for the Cologne Cathedral.

[B2] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist from this country stacked hundreds of handmade books stained with his own semen, dirt, and vegetation in his installation piece 20 Years of Solitude. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Germany [or Deutschland or Federal Republic of Germany or Bundesrepublik Deutschland; accept West Germany or FRG or BRD; accept East Germany or DDR or German Democratic Republic or Deutsche Demokratische Republik] (The second artist is Gerhard Richter.)):
    Name this country where the capitalist realism movement developed in the 1960s in response to pop art. Another artist from this country created photo-paintings using his trademark "blur" technique and designed the stained-glass window Symphony of Light.
  Part 2 (ans: Adolf Hitler [accept Hitler salute or Hitlergruß]):
    In his Heroic Symbols photographs, the German artist Anselm Kiefer poses in a salute associated with this leader. The Leni Riefenstahl film Triumph of the Will glorifies a 1934 rally led by this man.
  Part 3 (ans: Sigmar Polke):
    This German capitalist realist artist added blurry sections to his photos of the homeless in New York's Bowery neighborhood. This artist incorporated a piece of blue fabric in his canvas Carl Andre in Delft.

[B3] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A photograph by this artist shows a group of school-children standing in front of Diego Velazquez's Las Meninas, taking notes on the painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Struth ("TOE-moss shtroot")):
    Name this photographer of the Dusseldorf School who created the series Museum Photographs.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    Struth's Family Portraits series includes multiple photographs of this artist with his family. This German artist pioneered a technique where he would copy a photograph with paint, and then "blur" it out.
  Part 3 (ans: Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2):
    Richter produced a photo-blur portrait of his wife Emma that pays homage to this Cubist painting by Marcel Duchamp, inspired by a series of Eadweard Muybridge ("Edward MY-bridge") photographs showing the human form in motion.

[B4] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This bonus is scandalous. For 10 points each, answer some questions about nudity in modern art:
  Part 1 (ans: Lucian Freud):
    A nude man rests his head on his hand and looks away from two naked women in this British artist's After Cezanne. He also depicted Sue Tilly naked on a couch in his portrait Benefits Supervisor Sleeping.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Duchamp):
    This artist caused controversy at the 1912 Salon des Independants for his Nude Descending a Staircase.
  Part 3 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    A nude woman descends a staircase in Ema, a "photo-painting" that showcases this German artist's hallmark "blur" effect. In addition to photo-paintings, this German artist made a series of color chart paintings.

[B5] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these painters who were inspired by the work of John Cage, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    The Tate Modern houses Cage, a set of six square abstract paintings produced in 2006 by this artist with the help of a squeegee. He painted his daughter Betty looking away from the viewer in a 1988 portrait of her.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Motherwell):
    The subtitle of this man's painting Blue With China Ink notes that it is an homage to John Cage, with whom he was a co-editor of the art journal Possibilities. This abstract expressionist painted the series Elegy to the Spanish Republic.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Duchamp ("dew-SHOM")):
    Cage lost two games of musical chess to this artist as part of the performance piece "Reunion." Earlier in his career, this man caused a stir at the Armory Show with his Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2.

[B6] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The 1951 study The Voices of Silence was an attempt to give physical form to this idea. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Museum Without Walls [or Imaginary Museum; or Musee Imaginaire]):
    Identify this theoretical assemblage of postcards and photographic reproductions that Andre Malraux believed could serve as a portable, accessible record of the world's art history.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Rauschenberg [or Milton Ernest Rauschenberg]):
    The LA County Museum of Art houses this American artist's monumental work The 1/4 Mile, which comprises 190 panels illustrating art historical works such as the Parthenon frieze and Chinese bodhisattvas interspersed with references to this man's own "Combine" paintings.
  Part 3 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    In Atlas, a set of nearly 4000 photographs comprising a cultural history from 1962 onwards, this postwar German painter included the source images for his blurred, photorealistic portraits of members of the Red Army Faction.

[B7] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For many of his abstract paintings, this man selected colors at random for placement in "color chart"-like compositions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    Name this contemporary artist best-known for his slightly blurred "photo-paintings."
  Part 2 (ans: Cologne [or Koln]):
    Richter also designed a "pixelated" window for the cathedral in this city, which is the largest Gothic Church in northern Europe, and was only finished in 1880.
  Part 3 (ans: death):
    The cover of Sonic Youth's Daydream Nation is a Richter painting symbolizing this event with a candle that will eventually burn out. Vanitas paintings usually symbolize it with a skull.

[B8] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Blotches of yellow, black, over gray comprise this artist's painting inspired by Ronald Reagan's Star Wars initiative, S D I. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    Name this German artist who made a cracker-jack homemade squeegee to apply paint to canvases, thus creating his trademark "blur", in artworks that he called Abstract Painting.
  Part 2 (ans: photorealism [accept word forms; do not accept "realism"]):
    Before embracing abstractionism, Richter made many images in this style, which gave its name to a movement whose members include Photo Booths painter Richard Estes and the wheelchair-bound Chuck Close.
  Part 3 (ans: skulls [or craniums; prompt on "heads"]):
    During the 1980s Gerhard Richter created dozens of paintings depicting candles and these other objects. Damien Hirst studded one of these things with diamonds to create For the Love of God.

[B9] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's Annunciation after Titian series grows increasingly abstract, while his work Abstraktes Bild auctioned in 2010 for the record-breaking price of 21 million dollars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    Name this contemporary German artist whose other works include Eight Grey and Baader-Meinhof.
  Part 2 (ans: Fluxus):
    Richter was once a member of this art movement, whose manifesto stated they wanted to "purge the world of bourgeois sickness ... of dead art." Dick Higgins and Joseph Beuys were both members of it.
  Part 3 (ans: Green Apple):
    One of these objects rests to the right of a bottle in a photo painting by Richter. This fruit dominates the interior in Magritte's The Listening Room, and covers the face of the central figure in Magritte's The Son of Man.

[B10] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One couple from this city is notable for "typologies," photographic arrays of architectural variants on the same industrial subject, such as water towers and coal mines. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dusseldorf):
    Name this German city, the home of the photography power couple Bernd and Hilla Becher, whose contemporary art scene also includes a man who created photorealist works like his Baader-Meinhof Gang series and his Nazi Uncle Rudi.
  Part 2 (ans: Gerhard Richter):
    This contemporary German of the aforementioned Baader-Meinhof series is a big deal in Dusseldorf right now.
  Part 3 (ans: landscapes):
    The Dusseldorf Academy, which produced Gerhard Richter and the Bechers as students, was known as an international hotspot for this "plein air" style of this painting genre in the 1850s, which influenced the Hudson River School of this genre.
