=== STOCK CLUES: Smetana ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 33 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bedrich Smetana (The first line refers to the Prague Spring Festival. Moldau is the German name for the Vltava river.)
  - In 2024, this composer's 200th birthday was celebrated in an annual spring music festival that always begins on May 12th with his most famous orchestral work.
  - A viola solo on a descending short-long-short motif over violin tremolos opens an E minor chamber piece by this composer that features a second movement polka. [PWR]
  - Another piece by this composer begins with two harps imitating the bard Lumir and uses the motif "B-flat, E-flat, D, B-flat" to depict a (*) "High Castle." This non-Beethoven composer imitated his hearing loss with a sustained high E at the end of a string quartet that premiered with Dvorak as violist. [PWR]
  - Two flutes play swirling figures to represent a river in a set of six tone poems depicting the homeland of this composer of From My Life.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech composer whose symphonic cycle Ma vlast includes "The Moldau." [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bedrich Smetana
  - In a tone poem by this composer, the G-minor opening section is followed by a fugato  in A minor and 3/4 time that begins with the muted first violins playing a descending D6, G-sharp5 tritone. [PWR]
  - In a tone poem by this composer, the key signature switches for the first time from one sharp to four flats for an episode in which a flute duet plays over high, muted strings, titled "Moonlight. [PWR]
  - Dance of the Nymphs." Another tone poem by him opens with two harps, one strumming, one playing cadenzas, depicting a mythical (*) bard.
  - A tone poem by him adapts the Italian melody "La Mantovana" , which was later used for the Israeli national anthem, and depicts a river flowing by a castle called Vysehrad .
  - For 10 points, name this Czech composer whose cycle of six tone poems, Ma Vlast , includes "The Moldau" . [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Mantua [or Mantova; accept "La Mantovana" or "Il Ballo di Mantova" or "Mantuan Dance"; prompt on "Fuggi, Fuggi" by asking "what is that madrigal's alternate title?"] (The first clue refers to Jacquet of Mantua. The second clue refers to Salomone Rossi. "Hatikvah" is not directly based on "Vltava;" Cohen used the Romanian adaptation of "La Mantovana," "Carul cu boi," while Smetana used its Czech adaptation, "Kocka leze dirou.")
  - This city is the epithet of a Breton choirmaster whose motets were incompletely edited by George Nugent. [PWR]
  - A Jewish violinist from this city wrote 33 polyphonic settings of Hebrew liturgical music, punningly titled "Songs of Solomon." L'Ottuso Accademico defends a compositional style first used in this city in the book On the Imperfections of Modern Music. [PWR]
  - Samuel Cohen set a poem by Naftali Herz Imber to the tune of a madrigal named for this city. [PWR]
  - While working in this city, a composer was criticized by Giovanni (*) Artusi for a style of song in which lyrics govern music. [PWR]
  - "Hatikvah" and Ma Vlast separately adapted the tune of a madrigal named for this birthplace of seconda pratica.
  - Before moving to Venice from this city, one composer wrote three of his nine madrigal books and the oldest regularly performed opera.
  - For 10 points, name this city where the early phase of Claudio Monteverdi's career was patronized by the Gonzagas. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 DECAF (2022) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bedrich Smetana's String Quartet No. 1 [or "From My Life" or "Z meho zivota" or "Aus meinem Leben" or JB 1:105 or T 106; accept Smetana's String Quartet in E minor before the last line and prompt after]
  - In a letter explicating this piece to its composer's friend, the number of performers is said to be purposefully set to discuss "what so obviously troubles me." This piece's second movement contains a "solo quasi Tromba" on the C string, followed immediately by a transposition to the (+) G string. [PWR]
  - The third movement of this piece opens with an exposed cello solo descending from an F above the staff to a sequence of trills below the staff. [PWR]
  - After an opening sforzando staccato chord followed by eighth note oscillations, this piece introduces a melody consisting of descending repetitions of the rhythm pickup eighth note, half note, low quarter note in the solo (*) viola. [PWR]
  - In the second section of this piece's final movement, harsh, quiet tremolos underlie a long harmonic high E in the first violin representing its composer's deafness.
  - For 10 points, name this E minor chamber piece by the composer of Ma vlast. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bedrich Smetana
  - In a string quartet by this composer, the opening viola solo starts with an eighth note B, a whole note B, then drops down to E, then plays an eighth note F-sharp, a whole note G, then down to B.
  - The motif B-flat, E-flat, D, B-flat appears in an orchestral piece by this composer that opens with a harp solo, followed by a brass chorale.
  - In a piece by this composer, the theme B, E, F-sharp, G, A, B, B appears after an opening in which two flutes play undulating E minor sixteenth note figures to represent waters; that piece appears in a cycle after one depicting the castle Vysehrad .
  - In a string quartet by this man, a violin plays a high sustained E representing his tinnitus and oncoming deafness.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of the "From My Life" quartet and The Moldau, which is among the six tone poems of his Ma Vlast. [GIVE]

[T6] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Bedrich Smetana
  - This composer dedicated his piano piece "Faded Happiness," the first of his six Reves, to a former student in the Thun family.
  - In the second movement of this composer's first string quartet, the viola is instructed to play a polka like a trumpet.
  - He composed the concert etude On the Seashore, and wrote his Piano Concerto in G Minor to mourn the death of his daughter Bedriska.
  - This composer wrote a string quartet in which a violin plays a long harmonic E after the rest of the quartet suddenly stops and plays a low tremolo in a section representing his loss of hearing.
  - His symphonic poems include Sarka, as well as a piece which begins with two flutes representing streams that converge to the namesake river.
  - For 10 points, name this Czech composer of the string quartet "From My Life," who included his symphonic poems "Vysehrad" and "The Moldau" in Ma Vlast. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Over the course of 1874, this composer went from full hearing to total deafness. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    Name this Czech nationalist composer of The Bartered Bride. During his decade of deafness, he wrote his tone poem cycle Ma vlast, which contains the "The Moldau."
  Part 2 (ans: String Quartet No. 1 in E minor [or "From My Life" quartet; or Z meho zivota]):
    Smetana depicted his deafness and subsequent tinnitus with a high E in the finale of this autobiographical chamber work.
  Part 3 (ans: polka [or polky; accept "Allegro moderato a la polka"; accept Three Poetic Polkas; accept Polkas poetiques; accept Poeticke polky]):
    The last word of the tempo indication for the second movement of the "From My Life" quartet advertises that the movement is in this genre. Smetana wrote a set of three "poetic" pieces in this genre for solo piano.

[B2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After hearing this opera during its 1916 run in Prague, a Czech author went on to translate most of the composer's operas into German, finally granting them international success. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jenufa ("yeh-NOO-fuh") [or Jeji pastorkyna; or Her Stepdaughter]):
    Name this opera. The Kostelnicka ("KOSS-tell-NEECH-kuh") murders the baby of this opera's title character, who marries Laca ("LAH-tsuh") after he slashes her face with a knife to make her too ugly for Steva to marry.
  Part 2 (ans: Max Brod):
    Jenufa was the first of many Janacek ("yuh-NAH-check") operas translated by this Czech author, Janacek's main advocate. He later wrote Die Musik Israels, the first comprehensive study of the music of Israel, where he settled after fleeing Prague in 1939.
  Part 3 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    Brod praised this earlier Czech composer for mixing nationalism and cosmopolitanism. Brod translated this composer's opera The Bartered Bride.

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A trip to one of these structures near Helsinki inspired a concert overture in C and D-flat major by Uuno Klami. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: castles [or fortresses; or forts]):
    Name these structures. A visit by Death to one of these structures inspired the bassoon theme of the second movement of Sibelius's second symphony.
  Part 2 (ans: Ma vlast [or My Country] [Hatikvah is the national anthem of Israel]):
    In the first movement of this piece, the harps play a "B-flat, E-flat, D, B-flat" theme representing a castle. A theme used in the second movement of this piece is also used in the anthem Hatikvah.
  Part 3 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    The castle Vysehrad and river Vltava are depicted in this Czech composer's nationalistic tone poem Ma vlast.

[B4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This city's annual spring classical music festival is held in its historic concert hall, the Rudolfinum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Prague [or Praha]):
    Name this city. This city's old castle is depicted in a tone poem that opens with a lone harp, depicting Lumir, playing the motif "B-flat, E-flat, [pause] short D, B-flat."
  Part 2 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    The Prague Spring Classical Music Festival always opens with a performance of Ma Vlast, a cycle of six tone poems by this deaf composer of The Bartered Bride.
  Part 3 (ans: Josef Suk (Suk's father-in-law was Antonin Dvorak.)):
    This composer's tone poem Prague is often paired with his A Summer's Tale. This composer wrote the Asrael symphony in grief after his wife Otilie and her father, who was his mentor, died within 14 months of each other.

[B5] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A piece by this composer was inspired by hearing the scarlet tanager's song on a visit to Spillville, Iowa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonin Dvorak ("d'VOR-zhahk") [or Antonin Leopold Dvorak]):
    Name this Czech composer of the New World Symphony.
  Part 2 (ans: viola (The piece is the American String Quartet.)):
    Dvorak played this musical instrument. This instrument plays the opening melody [read slowly] rising F A, C D, F down to D over F major trills in the aforementioned tanager-inspired piece by Dvorak.
  Part 3 (ans: Bedrich Smetana (The tone poems make up Ma vlast.)):
    Dvorak was the violist for the private premiere of this composer's first string quartet, which is subtitled "From My Life." This composer also wrote a set of six tone poems depicting his homeland.

[B6] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer wrote a solo for the posthorn in the second menuet of his Serenade in D, K.320. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart):
    Name this composer, whose other serenades include Eine kleine Nachtmusik for string ensemble.
  Part 2 (ans: basset-horn [do not accept or prompt on "horn" alone]):
    Mozart called for three of these obscure woodwinds in his Masonic Funeral Music and two in his Serenade in B-flat, K. 361. Despite its name, this instrument is a member of the clarinet family, with a range that extends about a fifth lower than a standard clarinet.
  Part 3 (ans: Prague [or Praha] (That composer is Bedrich Smetana.)):
    Mozart's clarinet concerto, originally planned for basset-horn, was premiered in this city. Mozart's Symphony No. 38 is nicknamed for this city, and a later composer depicted a castle here in the tone poem Vysehrad ("vi-SHE-he-rad").

[B7] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A character in this opera claims to value love over beer, but later betrays his lover by accepting 300 florins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bartered Bride [or Prodana nevesta]):
    Name this comic opera in which a character sings the "Stuttering Song" and Esmeralda dances with a bear. Its overture opens with a rising third from A to C and unison strings scurrying in F major pentatonic.
  Part 2 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    This composer of The Bartered Bride wrote a string quartet that uses a sustained high E by the violin to represent his deafness. He wrote a set of six symphonic poems called Ma vlast.
  Part 3 (ans: "Dance of the Comedians"):
    This is the third of the three dances in The Bartered Bride. It accompanies the arrival of a circus troupe in the village, and during it, Vasek dons a bear costume.

[B8] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer celebrated his native Bohemia in a set of symphonic poems. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    Name this person who depicted the Vltava [vil-tava] River in Die Moldau from his Ma vlast.
  Part 2 (ans: The Bartered Bride OR Prodana nevesta):
    Smetana's best known opera is probably this comic work which includes the Dance of the Comedians and ends with the marriage of Marenka and Jenik [Yenik].
  Part 3 (ans: From My Life [or Z meho zivota]):
    After going deaf, Smetana composed his first string quartet known by this reflective name.

[B9] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some Eastern European composers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bohuslav Martinu):
    This Czech composer of six symphonies and the opera Julietta wrote a 1954 orchestral work that sets the frescoes of Piero della Francesca to music. This student of Albert Roussel also composed a trio for flute, cello, and piano.
  Part 2 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    This composer's symphonic poem Ma vlast, dedicated to the city of Prague, contains a section depicting the Moldau River.
  Part 3 (ans: Zoltan Kodaly):
    This Hungarian composer's 1939 Concerto for Orchestra was commissioned by the Chicago Symphony Orchestra for its fiftieth anniversary. A musical sneeze opens his folk opera about the hussar Hary Janos.

[B10] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title character of this opera sings a setting of the Salve regina after waking up from a drugged sleep. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jenufa):
    Name this opera in which Laca slashes the title character's cheeks to show that his rival, Steva, only loves her for her beauty. Laca marries the title character, and they live happily ever after when the title character's stepmother drowns her baby in icy water.
  Part 2 (ans: Leos Janacek):
    This composer, who took inspiration from a creepy obsession with Kamila Stosslova, wrote the operas Jenufa and The Cunning Little Vixen.
  Part 3 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    This fellow Czech composer wrote the opera The Bartered Bride and the tone poem Ma Vlast.

[B11] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this opera, Milada brings a fiddle to the title character and falls in love with him, though she had earlier demanded his death. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Dalibor):
    Name this opera whose title character is thrown in jail after killing an enemy Burgrave in revenge for the death of his friend Zdenek.
  Part 2 (ans: The Brandenburgers in Bohemia):
    In this other opera by the composer of Dalibor, Varneman and his warriors are called in to fight against the Habsburgs but are driven out by the work's end.
  Part 3 (ans: Bedrich Smetana):
    Dalibor and The Brandenburgers in Bohemia are two of the many nationalistic works by this Czech composer of The Bartered Bride.
