=== STOCK CLUES: Gustav Klimt ===
Tossup questions: 6 found, 34 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 16 found, 48 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: composers [prompt on musicians] (The first line refers to Gustav Klimt's Schubert at the Piano.)
  - Nikolaus Dumba's admiration for one person in this profession led him to commission a now destroyed portrait in which that person sits in profile in front of a hazy group of people.
  - A person in this profession may have been allegorized as John the Evangelist in a sculpture that depicts a bronze eagle resting near his feet. [PWR]
  - In a painting titled for a person from this profession, a topless woman with a vivid blue skirt appears in a section that also includes three nude, black-haired (*) gorgons. [PWR]
  - Max Klinger's bare-chested sculpture of a person in this profession was made for an exhibit that also featured a painting allegorizing one of that person's works with the ape-like Typhoeus and a knight covered in gold leaf.
  - For 10 points, a member of what profession inspired Gustav Klimt to adorn the walls of the Vienna Secession Building with his Beethoven Frieze? [GIVE]

[T2] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gustav Klimt
  - This artist contrasted naturalistic, moss-covered trees with an abstracted bed of orange leaves, painted using individual brushstrokes, in a landscape depicting the title Birch Forest. [PWR]
  - The vast majority of the canvas consists of a canopy of green, yellow, and blue dots in this artist's landscape The Park. [PWR]
  - While staying at Litzlberg Tavern this artist produced many square-shaped landscapes of Lake Attersee. [PWR]
  - Three panels titled The Knight,The Expectation, and The Embrace comprise a triptych by this artist which includes a (*) swirling depiction of the Tree of Life and was painted for the Palais Stoclet . [PWR]
  - The title mythological woman is shown nude with red hair, curled up in the fetal position, in this artist's Danae.
  - Three Gorgons and the monster Typhoeus  appear at the left of a painting by this artist which illustrates the themes of "Ode to Joy." For 10 points, name this artist of the Beethoven Frieze, the leading painter of the Vienna Secession. [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gustav Klimt (Altmann is a descendant of Adele Bloch-Bauer.)
  - A portrait by this artist depicts his partner Emilie Floge  in an ornamented blue dress against a blue and brown background.
  - Only half of Holofernes's head is visible in the bottom-right corner of this artist's depiction of a bare-breasted Judith.
  - The giant Typhoeus  occupies the majority of the middle wall of a work by this artist that is housed in a white building designed by Joseph Maria Olbrich.
  - Nazis stole five paintings by this artist that were successfully reclaimed by Maria Altmann, including this artist's two portraits of Adele Bloch-Bauer.
  - This artist's best-known painting depicts a couple dressed in yellow robes embracing, and features his characteristic use of gold leaf.
  - For 10 points, name this founding member of the Vienna Secession and painter of the Beethoven Frieze and The Kiss. [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gustav Klimt
  - One of this artist's works inspired a residence hall at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design that is made up of green panels interspersed throughout yellow panels that get lighter as they ascend.
  - A section of another of this artist's works depicting "Armored Strength" was printed on a 2004 coin.
  - A fire at Schloss Immendorf destroyed this artist's paintings that were commissioned for the University of Vienna's Great Hall. [PWR]
  - This artist of Philosophy, Medicine, and Jurisprudence painted Richard Wagner's interpretation of another (*) musician's Ninth Symphony in a painting with Typhoeus  and his three Gorgon daughters. [PWR]
  - A cliff covered in flowers supports a woman covered in circles and a man with rectangles kneeling and embracing in another of his works.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of the Beethoven Frieze who was known for his use of gold leaf and painted The Kiss. [GIVE]

[T5] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gustav Klimt
  - This artist created a black and white pen drawing of five women floating next to a parrotfish amongst lines of water and bubbles. [PWR]
  - This artist of Fish Blood created a painting with a simurgh-like bird positioned behind a naked woman with flushed cheeks who cuddles up to her companion who wears a white turban; that work is rather too-platonically titled The Friends. [PWR]
  - In this artist's depiction of one deity, the background consists of black pottery figures, and the title (*) goddess holds a small nude woman who has her arms outstretched.
  - A blanket in the foreground of that work bears the motif of abstract circles that appear in the backgrounds of this painter's other works such as Mother and Child.
  - This artist's Pallas Athene makes use of his trademark gold leaf, which is abundant in his portrait of an industrialist's wife, which was subject to a major lawsuit.
  - For 10 points, name this creator of that portrait of Adele-Bloch Bauer. [GIVE]

[T6] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gustav Klimt
  - This man included very little detail below the waist in his portrait of a woman who painted a folding picture book of her own, Magda Mauter-Markhof. [PWR]
  - That work, along with a pencil drawing of a naked man atop a woman, is included in this artist's Twenty-Five Drawings. [PWR]
  - He depicts a sleeping naked girl with red hair curled up and surrounded by purple being visited and impregnated by the (*) golden rain of Zeus in his Danae. [PWR]
  - That work and this artist's Portrait of Adele-Bloch Bauer exemplify the "Gold Phase" of this painter who left the Association of Austrian Artists to begin the Vienna Secession.
  - For 10 points, name this Austrian painter, known for his use of gold foil in portraying women in works such as The Kiss. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 TESTRUN (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Romantic doesn't just refer to a period. For 10 points each, answer some questions about kisses in art.
  Part 1 (ans: Constantin Brancusi):
    Which sculptor is perhaps best known for a work called "The Kiss"? This naturalised French citizen is also famous for works including "Sleeping Muse" and "Bird in Space".
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    The most famous artwork called "The Kiss" is by this Austrian artist. This symbolist painted 3 of the 20 most expensive artworks ever sold, more than any other painter.
  Part 3 (ans: Danae):
    Some scholars believe that the model for "The Kiss" was the same person as the model for which other work by Klimt? Completed in 1908 and given the catalogue number 19, immediately following "The Kiss", it is his only mythological subject other than "Pallas Athena".

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The middle section of this painting features hostile forces like the monkey-like giant Typhoeus and his daughters, the Gorgons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beethoven Frieze [accept Beethovenfries]):
    Name this painting that covers three walls in the Secession Building in Vienna.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    The Beethoven Frieze was created by this founding member of the Vienna Secession, whose more famous works include The Kiss.
  Part 3 (ans: Stoclet Palace [or Palais Stoclet or Stocletpaleis; accept Stoclet Frieze]):
    Klimt created another mosaic-inspired frieze, featuring his Tree of Life, for this building in Brussels. This building is the most famous work of Secessionist architect Josef [YO-sef] Hoffmann.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A fire set by retreating German soldiers destroyed a painting by this artist depicting Franz Schubert playing the piano by candlelight. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Name this expressionist whose portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer was reclaimed by the subject's family in 2006. This artist's "golden phase" is exemplified by his work The Kiss.
  Part 2 (ans: Oskar Kokoschka):
    This other expressionist artist, a student of Klimt, painted a later portrait of Adele's husband Ferdinand as well as many portraits of the clients of architect Adolf Loos. This artist's brief affair with Gustav Mahler's widow Alma is portrayed in his The Bride of the Wind.
  Part 3 (ans: Vienna Secession [or Union of Austrian Artists; or Vereinigung Bildener Kunstler Osterreichs; prompt on Secession; prompt on Art Nouveau]):
    Klimt, Kokoschka, and Loos were all members of this expressionist movement centered in its namesake building that contains Klimt's Beethoven Frieze. This movement's aesthetics were advertised in the periodical Ver Sacrum.

[B4] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In January 2022, the French government restored this painter's Roses Under the Trees from the French national collections to the Stiasny family, who had sold it under duress during Nazi rule. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Name this Austrian painter, whose first portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer, which exemplified his heavy use of gold leaf, was also stolen by the Nazis.
  Part 2 (ans: provenance):
    Specific term required. Those restitutions are part of a worldwide effort to identify unethically sourced works by examining this sort of record of a work's ownership, used to trace an object's chain of custody.
  Part 3 (ans: Egon Schiele ("SHEE-luh") [or Egon Leo Adolf Ludwig Schiele]):
    The Vugesta, a Viennese Nazi looting organization, also seized several works by this Austrian expressionist painter and student of Klimt, including a portrait of his muse "Wally" Neuzil.

[B5] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: As the theme of a 1902 exhibition, this man appears seated in a nude sculpture by Max Klinger that was displayed in front of Alfred Roller's mural Night Descending. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ludwig van Beethoven [or Beethoven Frieze]):
    Name this man. A painting dedicated to this man depicts the three Gorgons next to a hairy giant identified as Typhoeus.
  Part 2 (ans: Vienna Secession [or Wiener Secession; or the Union of Austrian Artists; or Vereinigung Bildender Kunstler Osterreichs; or Fourteenth Vienna Secession Exhibition; prompt on Secession Building]):
    The Beethoven Frieze was painted for the fourteenth exhibition of this movement, which Max Klinger belonged to. Joseph Maria Olbrich designed a namesake building for this movement whose facade features owls sculpted by Koloman Moser.
  Part 3 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    This Austrian painter of the Beethoven Frieze created two portraits of Adele Bloch-Bauer and The Kiss as part of his "golden phase."

[B6] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An artist from this city frequently used animal blood and carcasses in paintings and performance art. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vienna):
    Name this home to the Actionist movement of the 1960s. More notably, this city was the center of an art movement that included members such as Max Kurzweil and the painter of the Beethoven Frieze.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    The Beethoven Frieze was created by this painter who used gold leaf in his work The Kiss.
  Part 3 (ans: Republic of Austria vs. Altmann):
    Klimt's Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I was the subject of this court case, in which a descendant of Bloch-Bauer successfully sued the Austrian government for rights to the painting. Only the last name of that descendant is required.

[B7] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Paula Modersohn-Becker's Self Portrait on Sixth Wedding Anniversary shows the artist with this condition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: pregnancy [accept logical equivalence like being with child]):
    Give this condition that Mary is informed she will have in renaissance Annunciation paintings. Contrary to popular belief, the bride in The Arnolfini Wedding likely does not have this condition.
  Part 2 (ans: The Venus of Willendorf):
    One of the earliest depictions of pregnancy in art is found in this fertility figurine, dated to be about twenty-seven thousand years old. This figurine features large breasts and hips but no face, and is named for the Austrian village where it was discovered.
  Part 3 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    This artist painted the model Herma pregnant in his paintings Hope I and II. This gold-leaf using Vienna Secessionist also painted The Kiss and The Beethoven Frieze.

[B8] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Tracey Emin chose to hang several of this artist's works next to hers for an exhibition at the Leopold Museum. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Egon Schiele):
    Name this austere Expressionist. He created a painting showing two figures clinging to each other on white fabric titled Death and the Maiden.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Schiele was mentored by this earlier Austrian painter, who applied layers of gold leaf in his The Kiss.
  Part 3 (ans: Adele Bloch-Bauer [accept Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I or Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer II ]):
    Klimt's most expensive painting depicts this woman wearing a dress decorated with eyes. Besides that painting often called the Woman in Gold, Klimt's second painting of this woman is on display at the MoMa.

[B9] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer was recently featured in the film Woman in Gold. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Name this Austrian symbolist whose "golden phase" also produced The Kiss.
  Part 2 (ans: The Beethoven Frieze):
    Klimt created this work for the 14th Vienna Secessionist exhibition. Seven feet tall and 112 feet wide, the work includes three floating female Genii, the giant Typhoeus, and a knight in shining armor.
  Part 3 (ans: Max Klinger):
    This other German Symbolist created a controversial sculptural monument dedicated to Beethoven. His Paraphrase on the Finding of a Glove are a series of ten sketches inspired by a dream at an ice skating rink.

[B10] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer these questions on early 20th century Austrian art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Name this artist of a 1907 painting with of a Viennese salon lady and friend of the artist, which was briefly the most expensive painting ever when it sold for $135 million in 2006.
  Part 2 (ans: Oscar Kokoschka):
    This other Viennese painter depicted himself alongside Alma Mahler, The Bride of the Wind, also known as The Tempest.
  Part 3 (ans: Adolf Loos):
    This man was the author of the manifesto Ornament and Crime and a key figure in early Modernist architecture. He designed a namesake haus found in the Michaelerplatz in Vienna.

[B11] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Josef Olbrich designed a building known as the Golden Cabbage to house the works of this art movement, which was partly a reaction against the conservatism of Eugen Felix. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vienna Secession [or Wiener Secession; prompt on partial answer]):
    Name this movement that included much of the output of Joseph Maria Olbrich and Otto Wagner.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    One of the leaders of the Vienna Secession was this artist who showed an armored knight in opposition to the forces of Typhon in his Beethoven Frieze.
  Part 3 (ans: Ver Sacrum):
    This magazine, which published poetry by noted authors and had square pages, was published by the members of the Vienna Secession for the better part of five years at the turn of the 20th century.

[B12] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Cranach the Elder's version of this scene, the main female figure is wearing a feathered red hat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Judith beheading Holofernes [accept anything mentioning Holofernes getting killed]):
    Name this scene which was painted many times by Artemisia Gentileschi. In Caravaggio's version, a spurt of blood shoots from an Assyrian general's neck as an old maid holding a sheet looks on.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Adele Bloch-Bauer posed for two paintings of Judith by this Austrian painter of The Kiss, who was friends with Egon Schiele.
  Part 3 (ans: Sisera):
    Unsurprisingly, Artemisia Gentileschi also painted the scene in which Jael kills this Canaanite general with a tent peg.

[B13] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Some of the figures depicted on this work include the Genii, the Gorgon sisters, and Typhoeus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beethoven Frieze):
    Name this work of art that was originally exhibited along with Gustav Mahler's version of the titular composer's ninth symphony and Max Klinger's statue of that composer in an attempt to unite the arts.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Beethoven Frieze is a work of this Austrian symbolist painter who also painted a couple covered in gold, embracing each other, in The Kiss.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Hall of the University of Vienna):
    One of Klimt's greatest achievements was a series of three paintings depicting the powers of philosophy, medicine and jurisprudence, which he did for this building.

[B14] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about paintings with a common title, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Death and the Maiden):
    In this Egon Schiele painting, Wally Neuzil, in a torn-up dress, embraces a creepy green skeleton-like zombie man.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Egon Schiele's career was promoted by this other artist of the Vienna Secession, known for using gold foil in paintings like Judith and The Kiss
  Part 3 (ans: Hans Baldung Grien [or Hans Baldung Grien]):
    Another painting called Death and the Maiden was made by this Northern Renaissance artist, a student of Albrecht Durer who did a bunch of engravings of witches' sabbaths.

[B15] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man caused a scandal with his suggestive paintings for the ceiling of the Great Hall at the University of Vienna. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    Name this man who painted the Beethoven Frieze as well as The Kiss, which like many of his works from the 1900's uses gold leaf and a strange collage of rectangles.
  Part 2 (ans: Adele Bloch-Bauer):
    Klimt painted two portraits of this wife of a businessman. Now at the Neue Galerie, that first portrait was for a time the most expensive painting ever sold and was at the center of a legal battle by the subject's niece Maria Altmann.
  Part 3 (ans: Palais Stoclet Frieze):
    Klimt also created the mosaics Expectation and Tree of Life as part of this frieze for a palace in Brussels. The mosaics feature a recurring spiral motif on the tree and what appears to be the couple from The Kiss seen from a different angle with slightly different clothing.

[B16] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The figure playing a flute in this artist's Young Men by the Sea is reminiscent of the flautist in Luca Signorelli's School of Pan, and he showed people climbing onto already-filled up rafts in The Sinking of the Titanic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Beckmann):
    Name this artist, whose painting Departure shows a woman who is being tortured looking into a crystal ball in which she sees a newspaper in its left panel.
  Part 2 (ans: Oskar Kokoschka):
    Beckmann's art was deemed "degenerate," as was the art of this Viennese artist. This artist's The Bride of the Wind shows him sleeping next to Alma Mahler, with whom he had a passionate relationship.
  Part 3 (ans: Gustav Klimt):
    This other Viennese artist painted a work showing a baby being held by a young woman, beside whom stands a sad old woman, titled Three Ages of Woman. He also painted the Beethoven Frieze and The Kiss.
