=== STOCK CLUES: Ben Okri ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 15 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: elegy [or "Elegy For Alto"; or "Elegy for the Nation"; or "An African Elegy"; or Duino Elegies; prompt on poems] (the first two poems are by Ben Okri and Wole Soyinka respectively)
  - The speaker states, "Destiny is your friend" in a work in this genre that notes, "We are the miracles that God made / To taste the bitter fruit of Time." A work in this genre notes, "An anthem's sentiment upholds the myth" after asking an author, "Are you grapevine wired?" This genre, which partly titles an "African" work by Ben Okri, was used for a work that addresses "POLITICIANS," "THE EAGLES," and "THE ROBBERS" in (*) all caps.
  - The instruction "(with drum accompaniment)" opens a Christopher Okigbo poem in this genre during the Nigerian Civil War titled for Alto.
  - A poem in this genre asks, "Who, if I cried out, would hear me among the Angelic Orders?" For 10 points, give this genre of Rainer Maria Rilke poems titled for Duino Castle. [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Okri
  - In a novel by this author, villagers are temporarily blinded by yellow butterflies raining from the sky.
  - In that novel by this author, a "beautiful beggar girl with a bad eye" accompanies the narrator's father to a betting shop.
  - In a 2019 novel by this author, painting the words "Who is the prisoner?" on a public wall leads to the disappearance of Amalantis, who is sought by her lover, Karnak.
  - In the opening chapter of a novel by this author, ghosts eat dinner at the house of the police officer who was responsible for their deaths.
  - This author of The Freedom Artist and Songs of Enchantment wrote a novel in which the narrator's father, a boxer nicknamed "Black Tyger," fights a man from the Party of the Rich.
  - Customers from the spirit world frequent Madame Koto's bar and are seen by the child Azaro in, for 10 points, what Nigerian author's novel The Famished Road? [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Okri Round 4
  - This author wrote "Everyone loves a Spring cleaning, let's have a humanity cleaning" in the poem "Time to Be Real" from his collection Mental Flight.
  - In one novel by him, a retiring Governor-General on the eve of colonial independence writes his pompous memoirs as the protagonist's father goes on trial for murder.
  - The television host Lao angrily agrees to take a train tour across Europe in search of a pastoral space in his In Arcadia, and Omovo longs after Ifewiya in his Dangerous Love.
  - In another novel by him, Madama Koto joins the Party of the Rich and tries to keep the "abiku" protagonist around her bar as a good luck charm.
  - He followed that novel with the sequels Songs of Enchantment and Infinite Riches.
  - For 10 points, name this author who created Azaro in The Famished Road. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A flesh-eyed mother rules the 13th town of these beings in a novel whose protagonist meets a television-handed one of them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ghosts [or spirits; or ogbanje]):
    Name these creatures that inhabit a stretch of wilderness the unnamed 7-year-old protagonist must flee into to escape a raiding party.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Okri):
    The ghost Azaro joins the Party of the Rich in this author's The Famished Road. This Nigerian author also wrote the follow-up novels Songs of Enchantment and Infinite Riches.
  Part 3 (ans: crossroads):
    In My Life in the Bush of Ghosts, the narrator is worshipped like a god at one of these locations after his head swells in size. Yoruba legends about Eshu bear similarities to a legend about Robert Johnson meeting the devil at one of these locations.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A mother in this novel polishes figurines in a display case after each time she is beaten by her husband, which ultimately leads her to poison him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Purple Hibiscus):
    Name this novel in which Eugene's strict, authoritarian, Catholic control over his family is contrasted with his sister Ifeoma's household, where the narrator meets Father Amadi.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Purple Hibiscus is the debut novel of this Nigerian author. This author gained prominence with her subsequent novel, Half of a Yellow Sun, set during the Nigerian Civil War.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri [or Ben Golden Emuobowho Okri]):
    Growing up during the Nigerian Civil War also inspired this author's novel about the abiku Azaro, The Famished Road.

[B3] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Name some illustrious winners of the Bad Sex in Fiction Award, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Melvyn Bragg ):
    The first winner of the award went to this author of The Cumbrian Trilogy for A Time to Dance. He is vastly better known as the calm-voiced presenter of BBC Radio's In Our Time.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Okri (The novel is The Famished Road.)):
    This novelist, who won for The Age of Magic, wrote Starbook and The Freedom Artist. This author's most well-known novel involves an abiku spirit clinging to earth to observe his boxer father.
  Part 3 (ans: Norman Mailer):
    This man won in 2007 for The Castle in the Forest. Dorothy Parker called this author "the man who can't spell 'fuck'" after he was told to replace it with the euphemism "fug" in his novel The Naked and the Dead.

[B4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the blessing "Anyone who thinks evil of you, may this car run them over in their sleep" is spoken over a new automobile. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Famished Road):
    Name this novel that opens with the line "In the beginning there was a river." A man in this novel fights a spirit in a white suit and tells the protagonist about a giant who eats himself until only his stomach remains.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Okri):
    This author wrote about the Party of the Rich and the Party of the Poor in The Famished Road and its sequel, Songs of Enchantment. He also wrote the 2020 novel The Freedom Artist.
  Part 3 (ans: The Stranger [or L'Etranger; or The Outsider]):
    In 2018, Okri adapted this Albert Camus novel into a play, which he accompanied with a short film from the perspective of "the Arab," who is murdered by this novel's protagonist.

[B5] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Nigerian anglophone literature extends far beyond Things Fall Apart. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buchi Emecheta):
    This Nigerian-born British author died in 2017. Her abusive husband burnt her first manuscript, after which she left him and published books centred on female experience like The Bride Price and The Joys of Motherhood.
  Part 2 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This author's TED Talk "We Should All Be Feminists" was sampled on Beyonce's song "Flawless" and she won acclaim for her novel Americanah. She has recently been criticized for comments on transexuality.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    In a hotly anticipated exhibition boxing match later this year Evander Holyfield will fight Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a former Nigerian political party leader in a match officiated by this Nobel-winning playwright of "Death and the King's Horseman" and "The Lion and the Jewel."

[B6] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, Odenigbo and Olanna are forced to flee Nsukka due to a civil war, and Kainene begins a relationship with the English intellectual Richard Churchill. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    Name this author of a novel where Kainene disappears after opening a refugee camp, Half of a Yellow Sun.
  Part 2 (ans: Nigeria):
    Chimamanda Adichie is a prominent female author from this country, also the home to Chinua Achebe.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    This other Nigerian author wrote a novel concerning a child spirit named Azaro who lives with mortals and observes their daily lives, The Famished Road.

[B7] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's three-year correspondence with Paul Auster was anthologized in the volume Here and Now. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: J.M. Coetzee [or John Maxwell Coetzee]):
    Name this South African author, who won the Man Booker prize twice, for Disgrace and Life & Times of Michael K.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Okri):
    The only Nigerian winner of the Man Booker Prize is this author, who won for his novel about the spirit-child Azaro, The Famished Road.
  Part 3 (ans: Ruth Prawer Jhabvala):
    This Indian author won the Booker for her novel Heat and Dust, though she is better known as a screenwriter for Merchant Ivory Productions, for whom she adapted The Golden Bowl and Howards End.

[B8] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about 21st century African literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This author's most recent novel, Americanah, documents the struggles between Ifemelu and Obinze, two teenagers who fell in love and move to the U.S. She has also written the short story collection The Thing Around Your Neck.
  Part 2 (ans: James Ngugi or Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    Ever since this author abandoned English to produce books in his native Kikuyu tongue, he has written a fantasy novel set in Aburiria titled Wizard of the Crow; his works in English include A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    This magical realist wrote about a prince who journeys to find ultimate mysteries in his novel Starbook. He had earlier written a novel about a "spirit child" named Azaro in The Famished Road.

[B9] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about The Famished Road, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Okri):
    The Famished Road was a breakthrough novel for this Nigerian author. Jeffia Okwe witnesses the downfall of his corrupt father, a shady businessman, in this author's debut novel, Flowers and Shadows.
  Part 2 (ans: magical realism):
    The Famished Road is an example of this genre of literature, in which elements of fantasy are inserted into otherwise regular situations. One Hundred Years of Solitude is considered an exemplar of this literary genre.
  Part 3 (ans: photographs):
    In The Famished Road, Jeremiah is repeatedly arrested for producing these items. In an Athol Fugard play, Sizwe Banzi asks Styles for one of these items, which evokes memories of a servant named Lydia in July's People.

[B10] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In one story by this author, the governor of the title location celebrates his birthday by scrambling his fighter planes in a garish air show while the rest of the inhabitants, including Dede, starve. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Okri [the novel is The Famished Road]):
    Name this author of "In the City of Red Dust," one of six postcolonial stories found in his collection Stars of the New Curfew. Another of his novels stars a photographer named Jeremiah, a bar owner named Madame Koto, and a "spirit child."
  Part 2 (ans: magic realism [or magical realism]):
    Most of Ben Okri's stories fall under this genre of fiction, theorized by Alejo Carpentier and used in novels like One Hundred Years of Solitude by Gabriel Garcia Marquez.
  Part 3 (ans: selling his blood [or giving blood; or really anything along those lines; accept Chronicle of a Blood Merchant; accept Xu Sanguan Mai Xue Ji]):
    In "In the City of Red Dust," Emokhai makes a living by performing this activity. This activity is performed regularly before trips to the Victory Restaurant by Xu Sanguan, who supplements his income as a cart-pusher in a silk mill by doing this.

[B11] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote about Amusa Sango, an investigative reporter who documents figures like Bayo the penicillin racketeer before fleeing with Beatrice the Second, in his underrated People of the City. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cyprian Ekwensi):
    Identify this author whose works like The Drummer Boy popularized English writing in his country, and whose most iconic title character chooses a name reflecting the permeating social desire to acquire a luxury car.
  Part 2 (ans: Nigeria):
    Ekwensi is a major figure in the literature of this African country, whose authors include Buchi Emecheta and Chinua Achebe. Ekwensi's Jagua Nana is set, like many of his works, in its major city of Lagos.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    This other Nigerian author of Incidents at the Shrine and Stars of the New Curfew is best known for writing about the the spirit child Azaro in The Famished Road.
