=== STOCK CLUES: Thomas Hardy ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 45 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 40 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy (The first three poems are "The Caged Goldfinch," "The Blinded Bird," and "Neutral Tones")
  - In a poem by this author, the only sound in a churchyard is the "hops from stage to stage" of a goldfinch left in a cage on a grave.
  - The speaker asks, "Who hopeth, endureth all things? / Who thinketh no evil, but sings?" in a poem by this author protesting the blinding of birds to improve their singing.
  - During a meeting between two people in a poem by this author, a "grin of bitterness" sweeps "Like an ominous bird a-wing." A poem by this author is set when "The ancient pulse of germ and birth / Was shrunken hard and dry" and "The tangled bine-stems scored the sky / Like strings of broken lyres." In that poem by him, the speaker hears the title bird sing of "[s]ome blessed Hope, whereof he knew / And I was unaware" as he leans upon a "coppice gate." For 10 points, name this English poet of "The Darkling Thrush." [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Eminent Victorians (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - This poet used Dido's words veteris vestigia flammae for the epigraph of a collection that includes the lines "clouds spout upon her/ their waters amain/in ruthless disdain." This author remembers "summer gave us sweets, but autumn wrought division" in a poem that tells the addressee "yes: I have re-entered your olden haunts at last." This author burnt his first wife's accusatory diary What I Think About My Husband.
  - This author begins "hereto I come to view a voiceless ghost" in a poem that describes retracing a romantic trip along the cliffs of (+) Cornwall.
  - This author's poems "Rain on a Grave" and "After a Journey" appear in an elegiac sequence that this author wrote for his dead wife, Emma Gifford.
  - A poem by this author includes the image of "tangled bine-stems" that "scored the sky/ like strings of broken lyres." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about seeing (*) "the century's corpse outleant" while leaning upon a "coppice gate" in "The Darkling Thrush." [PWR,GIVE]

[T3] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - The narrator of a poem by this author wonders whether a noise she hears is from "My enemy . . . prodding sly" or "My loved one . . . planting rue," even though both of them have forgotten her.
  - In another poem by this author, a group of corpses "sat upright" after hearing a noise that makes them think "it was the Judgment-day."This poet wrote from the perspective of a corpse whose dog "quite forgot it was your resting place" upon burying a bone in the poem "Ah, Are You Digging on My Grave." This poet wrote about "Century's corpse outleant" and a creature with "Some blessed Hope, whereof he knew / And I was unaware" in a poem beginning, "I leant upon a coppice  gate." For 10 points, name this death-obsessed Victorian poet who wrote "Channel Firing" and "The Darkling Thrush." [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - This author wrote about a jealous lord who has a sculpture of his wife's first husband disfigured to bear the latter's horrific burns in a story that is collected with other tales about "noble dames." In another story by this author, Baptista elopes with a former lover who dies an hour after their wedding. [PWR]
  - This author of "A Mere Interlude" included the story "The Three (*) Strangers" among his "novels of character and environment," which include a novel that ends with the protagonist's wife leaving his fresh corpse to join a Remembrance Week party.
  - In that novel by this author, Arabella returns from Australia with a somber child nicknamed "Little Father Time." The fictional county of Wessex provides the setting of many works by, for 10 points, what author of Jude the Obscure? [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 FINE AARTS (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - A drawing of an altarpiece created by this architect was found in the All Saints Church in Windsor by Stuart Tunstall. [PWR]
  - A tree is surrounded by tombstones in reference to this architect's job exhumating bodies. [PWR]
  - This architect featured a poem stating "These Gothic windows, how they wear me out," in one of his poetry collections.
  - This architect's most famous building is a red-brick house he lived in with his wife, Emma.
  - Besides designing (*) Max Gate, this architect worked with John Hicks, whose firm was later taken over by G.R.
  - Crickmay.
  - For 10 points, name this architect who drew from his surroundings to create the fictional region of Wessex for the setting of works like Jude the Obscure. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - This poet wrote about learning the "keen lessons that love deceives" in a poem that ends by listing "Your face, and the God-curst sun, and a tree / And a pond edged with grayish leaves." A poem by this author ends with a woman being told: "a raw country girl, such as you be, / Cannot quite expect that.
  - You ain't ruined." This author invented the noun "Powerfuller" for a poem that complains "Crass Casualty obstructs the sun and rain" and wishes "some vengeful god would call to me." This author of "Neutral Tones" and "The Ruined Maid" wrote of "Some blessed hope, whereof he knew / And I was unaware" in a poem whose speaker "leant upon a coppice  gate" to watch the title bird.
  - For 10 points, "Hap" and "The Darkling Thrush" are by what author of Tess of the d'Urbervilles? [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 GHOTI (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Wessex (Thomas Hardy's version)
  - Destinations in this region include the Isle of Slingers, Weatherbury Farm, Stancy Castle, and a famous church in Kingsbere.
  - Newson landed in this region's town of Havenpool upon returning from Newfoundland, and its town of Overcombe is mentioned in the historical novel The Trumpet-Major, which sees Anne Garland courted by three suitors, including the titular musician, John Loveday, of Budmouth.
  - Budmouth is also home to horseraces frequented by Frank Troy, and Thomasin and Wildeve attempted to get married in this region's town of Anglebury.
  - Captain Thomas Hardy, who served as a commander under Lord Nelson at Trafalgar lived in Po'sham in this county, and Shaston is home to a school run by Mr.
  - Philloston, the husband of Sue Bridehead.
  - Tess Durbeyfield was executed in this county's former seat of Wintoncester, and the town of Mellstock is where most of Under the Greenwood Tree is set.
  - For 10 points, what is this semi-fictional county of southwestern England home to towns such as Casterbridge and Christminster that served as the setting for all of Thomas Hardy's major novels? [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - In a lyric sequence, this poet wrote that "death will not appal one who, past doubtings all, waits in unhope".
  - This poet wrote, "Well, World, you have kept faith with me", at the beginning of a poem labeled "a reflection on my eighty-sixth birthday".
  - This poet of "In Tenebris" and "He Never Expected Much" wrote, "The land's sharp features seemed to be the Century's corpse outleant", in a poem about a time when "every spirit upon earth seemed fervourless as I".
  - In that poem of his, the singing of the title bird conveys "some blessed Hope, whereof he knew and I was unaware".
  - For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "The Darkling Thrush" also known for such novels as Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the d'Urbervilles. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - The speaker of a poem by this author realizes that "love deceives, and wrings with wrong" whenever he remembers "Your face, and the God curst sun." In one of his poems, this author concluded that war is "quaint and curious" because "You shoot a fellow down / You'd treat if met where any bar is." This author wrote a poem about a creature "frail, gaunt, and small," that chooses to "fling his soul / Upon the growing gloom." This author of "The Man He Killed" wrote a poem about the (*) jarring of "two hemispheres" that results from a "sea-worm" meeting "a Shape of Ice." This author wrote a poem about a man who "leant upon a coppice gate" at the dawn of the twentieth century when he encountered the title bird. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this English poet who wrote some "lines on the loss of the Titanic" in "The Convergence of the Twain" and penned "The Darkling Thrush." [GIVE]

[T10] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - A character created by this writer thinks it too cruel to scare away crows from a field, and he later gets out of bed to kill a trapped rabbit. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, a woman inadvertently obtains her brother's inheritance after her admirer wins both of their legacies in a dice game. [PWR]
  - He wrote a novel that both opens and ends on Guy Fawkes Day, and that book includes a salesman of (*) sheep dyes who is perpetually stained red. [PWR]
  - A fictional suicide note by this writer reads "Done because we are too menny." Damon Wildeve and Eustacia Vye drown at the end of a novel by this man, who killed off several characters in a different book when Little Father Time commits suicide after murdering two of Sue Bridehead's children.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Return of the Native and Jude the Obscure. [GIVE]

[T11] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Thomas Hardy
  - The speaker of one poem by this author remarks that "life to me had less of that fell look it wore" after the sky, the north wind, sickness, and death sequentially talk to him.
  - The speaker of another of his poems shot someone "because he was my foe." Another poem by this poet of "The Subalterns" and "The Man He Killed" ends with images of Stourton Tower, Camelot, and "starlit Stonehenge." The speaker of another of this man's poems wishes for "some vengeful god" to blame for his unhappiness.
  - This poet of "Channel Firing" and "Hap" wrote "consummation comes, and jars two hemispheres" in a poem about the sinking of the Titanic.
  - One of his speakers hears a joyful birdsong against a dreary landscape as he "leant upon a coppice gate." For 10 points, name this author of "The Convergence of the Twain" and "The Darkling Thrush." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Henry Knight and Stephen Smith compete for Elfride Swancourt's love in this author's novel A Pair of Blue Eyes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Name this British author of Far from the Madding Crowd and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
  Part 2 (ans: Miranda (from The Tempest.)):
    In A Pair of Blue Eyes, Hardy compares Elfride's innocence to that of this Shakespeare character. In an Act V scene from the play this character appears in, she extolls a "brave new world / that has such people in it."
  Part 3 (ans: hanging from a cliff [accept cliff-hanger; accept equivalents that indicate both hanging and a cliff; prompt on hanging or synonyms that do not mention a cliff] (This is supposedly the origin of the term "cliff-hanger.")):
    A Pair of Blue Eyes is said to have originated a literary term through a scene depicting this action. Henry Knight performs this action while boasting that he is more intelligent than a fossil he calls an "underling" before Elfride intervenes.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After hearing "The Foot of the Cross" at his local church, this character seeks out its composer to compliment the hymn, only to be told that the composer can't support himself on music and plans to become a wine merchant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jude Fawley [or Jude Fawley; accept Jude the Obscure]):
    Name this character who slips a letter for Mr. Philloston into a piano that his aunt had been storing for him after his departure. This character's wife leaves him after an argument about how to slaughter a pig.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This author's character of Jude Fawley aspires towards a learned profession despite his trade as a stonemason, which he shares with the father of this author of Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
  Part 3 (ans: teacher [accept schoolmaster; accept schoolteacher] (The novel is The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie)):
    The opening line of Jude the Obscure refers to Mr. Philloston by this job of his, which Jude's cousin Sue later takes on under him. In another novel, a "born fascist" with this profession says "I am in my prime" and selects a namesake "set."

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While in this situation, a character starts thinking about dinosaurs, and realizes his death "would be a deliberate loss to earth of good material." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hanging on a cliff [or cliffhanger; or similar descriptions; prompt on being in danger or dying]):
    Describe the situation which, in a climatic scene of A Pair of Blue Eyes, Henry Knight finds himself in before he is rescued with the help of Elfride's underwear.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This author's novel A Pair of Blue Eyes is the origin of the term "cliffhanger." He set novels like Far from the Madding Crowd in a fictionalized Wessex.
  Part 3 (ans: The French Lieutenant's Woman):
    In this novel, Sarah Woodruff takes solitary walks along the cliffside after she is shunned by the residents of Lyme Regis. This John Fowles novel ends in its own unique way by giving the reader multiple endings to pick from.

[B4] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author called his wife an "encyclopedia in petticoats," as she helped to edit and publish several of his novels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Name this author who married after the financial success of his novel Far From the Madding Crowd.
  Part 2 (ans: Emma Gifford [accept either]):
    Give either the first name or the maiden name of Hardy's first wife. After this woman's death, Hardy liberally edited her memoir, Some Recollections, and burned her diaries that portrayed their troubled marriage.
  Part 3 (ans: Jude the Obscure):
    The Hardys' marital issues and Emma's piety possibly inspired a woman who turns to religion after two of her children are murdered by their half-brother in this Hardy novel.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A digressive passage by a novel's narrator claims that this author was "the first to try to break the Victorian middle-class seal over the supposed Pandora's box of sex." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Name this author, whose affair with his cousin Tryphena is recounted in John Fowles' novel The French Lieutenant's Woman. The narrator suggests that this author tacitly dedicated his novel Jude the Obscure to Tryphena.
  Part 2 (ans: "In Memoriam A. H. H." (by Alfred, Lord Tennyson)):
    The narrator of The French Lieutenant's Woman later didactically quotes a passage from this long Victorian-era poem, which describes nature as "red in tooth and claw."
  Part 3 (ans: Marguerite (Both poems are by Matthew Arnold.)):
    The French Lieutenant's Woman ends by describing an "unplumb'd, salt, estranging sea," quoting a poem addressed to this woman that notes "we mortal millions live alone." She is the addressee of the poem "Isolation."

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The preface to a posthumous 1920 collection declares that its subject is not Poetry, but war and this aspect of war, explaining that "the Poetry is in" this thing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "the pity of war" [accept "the pity of war, the pity war distilled"]):
    Name this concept described as "the truth untold" and "distilled" in the poem "Strange Meeting," which goes on to state, "Now men will go content with what we spoiled."
  Part 2 (ans: Wilfred Owen [or Wilfred Edward Salter Owen]):
    This English poet of "Strange Meeting" asked, "What passing-bells for those who die as cattle?" in his poem "Anthem for Doomed Youth."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This other poet used phrases like "Thu bist" and "Er war" to show the shared heritage of English and German in his 1915 poem "The Pity of It." His earlier poem "The Man He Killed" was inspired by the Boer War.

[B7] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a novel in which rooms of the title property are labeled "Quiete Retreate" and "Greate laundrie," which the protagonist says is like "being locked in the Victoria and Albert Museum after closing time." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stella Gibbons [or Stella Dorothea Gibbons]):
    Name this author who wrote a novel in which the protagonist's Aunt Ada sees "something nasty in the woodshed" as a parody of authors including Sheila Kaye-Smith.
  Part 2 (ans: farms):
    Gibbons included Aunt Ada and Flora Poste in a novel about a Cold Comfort one of these places, another of which is the home of Snowball and Napoleon in a George Orwell novel.
  Part 3 (ans: Wessex (the second novel is Thomas Hardy's Jude the Obscure.)):
    Cold Comfort Farm may have been a parody of John Cowper Powys' novel Wolf Solent, which takes place in a region with this name. While studying in Christminster, a resident of a county with this name falls in love with Sue Bridehead.

[B8] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The chorus sings of "When the hounds of spring are on winter's traces" near the beginning of this poet's verse drama Atalanta in Calydon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Algernon Charles Swinburne):
    Name this Victorian poet whose collection Poems and Ballads includes his "Hymn to Proserpine."
  Part 2 (ans: Galilean):
    The title figure of Swinburne's "Hymn to Proserpine" stands in for paganism, but Christianity is instead repeatedly addressed by this geographical word, as in the line, "Thou has conquered, O pale [this word], the world has grown grey from thy breath."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Sue Bridehead reads the line beginning, "Thou has conquered, O pale Galilean," in this other Victorian author's novel Jude the Obscure. He also wrote Tess of the D'Urbervilles.

[B9] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In order to become a schoolteacher, a man in this novel reads so much that he nearly becomes blind. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Return of the Native):
    Name this novel in which Clym Yeobright's return to Egdon Heath leads to his unhappy marriage to Eustacia Vye, who still has feelings for her old boyfriend Damon.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    The Return of the Native is set in the fictional Wessex county created by this author of The Mayor of Casterbridge.
  Part 3 (ans: diamond [prompt on gem or jewelry; prompt on the moonstone from The Moonstone by asking, "What specific kind of object is it?"] (The other novel is The Moonstone by Wilkie Collins.)):
    In The Return of the Native, Clym returns to Egdon Heath from Paris since he hated his job of selling these objects. In a different novel, a man who unknowingly drank laudanum takes one of these objects during a birthday party.

[B10] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Charlotte Mew poem, a man in one of these places laments, "There is something horrible about a flower... there is something terrible about a child." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cemeteries [or graveyards; accept "In Nunhead Cemetery"; accept "The Grave"; accept graveyard poets]):
    Name these places. A description of a "weary bird" who "claps his well-fledged wings, and bears away" ends a Robert Blair poem set in one of these places, which inspired poets like Thomas Parnell.
  Part 2 (ans: The Farmer's Bride):
    Mew included "In Nunhead Cemetery" in this collection. This collection's title poem centers on a woman "shy as a leveret, swift as he," and ends with the lament, "the brown, / The brown of her-her eyes, her hair, her hair!"
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    One of the staunchest supporters of The Farmer's Bride was this poet, who wrote of hearing "a full-hearted evensong" while "tangled bine-stems scored the sky / Like strings of broken lyres" in "The Darkling Thrush."

[B11] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A 2006 biography by Claire Tomalin takes its subtitle from a line in the poem "A Broken Appointment" that describes "a woman [who] came to soothe" a man "torn" by this concept. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Time [accept "time-torn man" or Little Father Time]):
    Give this concept that partially nicknames a child from Jude the Obscure who murders his half-siblings and hangs himself after leaving a note reading "Done because we are too menny."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    "A Broken Appointment" was written by this rather depressing British novelist, who depicted the suicide of Little Father Time in Jude the Obscure.
  Part 3 (ans: "Hap"):
    The speaker mourns how "Crass Casualty obstructs the sun and rain, / And dicing Time for gladness casts a moan" in this Hardy sonnet. It imagines a figure who warns the speaker, "Know that thy sorrow is my ecstasy."

[B12] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem sees this animal "frail, gaunt, and small" when leaning "upon a coppice gate." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the darkling thrush (The poem is by Thomas Hardy.)):
    Name this title animal whose song expresses "some blessed Hope, whereof he knew/ and I was unaware." It is described with the same unusual adjective used for a plain in "Dover Beach."
  Part 2 (ans: John Clare):
    In "Pleasure's Past," this poet describes a thrush in the Northamptonshire dialect as a "speckt throstle." This poet narrated a starving, four day escape from a mental asylum in "Journey Out of Essex."
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet's "The Tables Turned" exclaims "how blithe the throstle sings!" This Romantic poet of "Tintern Abbey" collaborated with Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads.

[B13] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem, one of these animals is credited for having "moved a poet to prophecies - / A pinch of unseen, unguarded dust." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: skylark [accept "To a Skylark"; accept "Shelley's Skylark"; prompt on lark or bird or avian]):
    Name this animal that, in one poem, "inspired a bard to win / Ecstatic heights in thought and rhyme." That poem alludes to an earlier one in which this animal is compared to a "Poet hidden / In the light of thought."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This poet of "Shelley's Skylark" described a bird who knew of "some blessed Hope" in his poem "The Darkling Thrush." This author also wrote the novel Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
  Part 3 (ans: Christina Rossetti [or Christina Georgina Rossetti; prompt on Rossetti] (The second poem is "Goblin Market.")):
    "A singing speck above the corn" is described in this Victorian author's poem "The Skylark." In another poem, this author wrote about Lizzie and Laura, who are told "Come buy, come buy" at the title location.

[B14] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem consists of two tercets, the first of which describes a creature that "clasps the crag with crooked hands" and stands "ringed with the azured world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Eagle"):
    Name this brief poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson that concludes, "He watches from his mountain walls / and like a thunderbolt he falls."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Eleven tercets make up this writer's poem about the sinking of the Titanic, "The Convergence of the Twain." This writer's other poems include "The Darkling Thrush" and "Hap."
  Part 3 (ans: "The Harlot's House"):
    In this Oscar Wilde poem in tercets, the speaker hears Strauss's "Treues Liebes Herz" ("TROY-us LEE-buss HAIRTS") coming from the title location, where the speaker says "The dead are dancing with the dead / the dust is whirling with the dust."

[B15] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, God says "It will be warmer when I blow the trumpet." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Channel Firing"):
    Name this poem delivered from the perspective of a corpse who hears "great guns" that "shook all our coffins as we lay."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Darkling Thrush"):
    In this other poem written by the author of "Channel Firing," the speaker leans on a "coppice gate" and notices the title "frail, gaunt, and small" bird.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    "Channel Firing" and "The Darkling Thrush" are both poems written by this author of Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.

[B16] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem was first published as "By the Century's Deathbed" on December 19th, 1900. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Darkling Thrush"):
    Name this poem that proclaims "every spirit upon earth / Seemed fervourless as I." The narrator of this poem sees "So little cause for carolings" as "Winter's dregs made desolate / The weakening eye of day."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This author of "The Darkling Thrush" also wrote The Mayor of Casterbridge and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
  Part 3 (ans: shipwreck [or equivalents like sinking of a ship; accept "The Wreck of the Deutschland" or sinking of the Titanic]):
    Hardy described one of these events in a poem that notes "The sea-worm crawls" and considers "The Immanent Will that stirs and urges everything." Gerard Manley Hopkins dedicated a poem about one of these events "To the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns."

[B17] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Hawthorne described a series of novels set in this county as being "as if some giant had hewn a great lump out of the earth and put it in a glass case." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barsetshire):
    Name this county, the setting of a novel in which Bishop Proudie takes an ecclesiastical seat that had been reserved for Archdeacon Grantly.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope):
    This author wrote the Chronicles of Barsetshire, whose best-known individual book is Barchester Towers. This 19th century author also wrote the six novel Palliser series.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Another recurring English setting is this author's fictional Wessex which appears in this author's novels Return of the Native and The Mayor of Casterbridge.

[B18] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In "Health Advice," this poet suggested that "If you want to stay alive / sit and read a book." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wendy Cope):
    Identify this poet of the 2018 collection Anecdotal Evidence. This poet lamented "The leaves have fallen / and the snow has fallen and / soon my hair also" in the second of three haikus written as the fictitious Jason Strugnell.
  Part 2 (ans: Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom [do NOT accept "Poet Laureate of the United States"]):
    Cope expressed distaste for this position, citing Kipling's view that "a poet has no business becoming an employee of the state." Carol Ann Duffy held it until 2019, when she was succeeded by Simon Armitage.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Convergence of the Twain" (The second poem is by Thomas Hardy.)):
    In response to 9/11, Armitage pictured a "half-excoriated Apple Mac" that "still quotes the Dow Jones" in a poem with this title. An earlier poem with this title attributes the sinking of the Titanic to the "Immanent Will that stirs and urges everything."

[B19] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this play defines "carnal embrace" and Fermat's Last Theorem in quick succession, to the disgust of a thirteen-year-old. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arcadia):
    Name this play, in which a character notes that you cannot reverse entropy by stirring jam and pudding apart again. It ends with one set of characters looking at a diagram of heat exchange while others in an earlier time waltz.
  Part 2 (ans: Proof):
    In this David Auburn play, the mathematician Catherine writes a theorem on prime numbers that is mistaken for her mentally ill father Robert's last work.
  Part 3 (ans: Hardy [accept G. H. Hardy or Thomas Hardy]):
    Simon McBurney's play A Disappearing Number is about the collaboration of Srinivasa Ramanujan and a professor of this last name. An author with this last name wrote Jude the Obscure and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.

[B20] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: All but one member of this institution drown themselves in the name of the title character at the end of Max Beerbohm's satirical novel Zuleika Dobson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: University of Oxford):
    Name this institution, from which Paul Pennyfeather is forced to rusticate at the beginning of a later novel after falling victim to the Bollinger Club's drunken revelry.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Although it is thinly disguised as "Christminster," a more serious representation of Oxford in literature appears in the novel Jude the Obscure by this author of The Mayor of Casterbridge and Far From The Madding Crowd.
  Part 3 (ans: Alan Bennett):
    Getting into Oxford is the focus of the play The History Boys by this British author who also wrote a series of Talking Heads monologues.

[B21] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Critic Kenneth Tynan's pejorative term for middlebrow mid-20th-century British drama, "the Loamshire play," refers to a fictional county that this author regularly used as a setting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Eliot [or Mary Anne Evans] (The novel is Felix Holt.)):
    Name this author of a "Loamshire novel" about an activist who accidentally kills a constable during a riot that breaks out on the day that his candidate, Harold Transome, loses a parliamentary election.
  Part 2 (ans: Anthony Trollope (The novel is Barchester Towers.)):
    The chaplain Obadiah Slope delivers an unpopular sermon against chanting in church services near the start of the most popular of the six novels this author set in the fictional county of Barsetshire.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This author agglomerated several southwest English counties into the fictional area of Wessex, where he set novels like Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.

[B22] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In this sport, terminating flourishes known as "suskewiet" are counted with chalk tally marks on a long wooden rod. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: vinkensport [or vinkenzetting]):
    Name this Flemish sport in which male birds known as chaffinches are bred and trained to call as many times as they can within an hour.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    The former practice of blinding the finches in vinkensport led this English poet to write "The Blinded Bird." A bleak winter is interrupted by a "full-hearted evensong / of joy illimited" in this man's poem "The Darkling Thrush."
  Part 3 (ans: anti-vivisection [accept any answer indicating opposition to vivisection or animal experimentation]):
    Hardy was also an active supporter of this cause, some of whose members, including Frances Power Cobbe, were attacked after erecting a statue of a brown terrier in Battersea Park. The physiologist Francois Magendie was a frequent target of ire for proponents of this cause.

[B23] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this story gets married because she hates her job teaching, but is dismayed to find that her husband only married her because he wanted her to teach his daughters for free. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "A Mere Interlude"):
    Name this story in which Baptista Trewthen marries Charles Stow right before an arranged marriage to Mr. Heddegan, only to go ahead with the arranged marriage when Charles drowns an hour after the wedding.
  Part 2 (ans: Jude the Obscure):
    The author of "A Mere Interlude" also wrote this novel in which the title character has the child "Little Father Time" with Arabella Donn and later marries his cousin Sue Bridehead.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    "A Mere Interlude" and Jude the Obscure were written by this author who wrote about the rise and fall of Michael Henchard in The Mayor of Casterbridge.

[B24] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character chastises his employer for carelessly leading on Farmer Boldwood by sending him a Valentine with the words "Marry Me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Oak [or Gabriel Oak]):
    Name this shepherd who is rejected by Bathsheba Everdene at the start of an 1874 novel, and is the third man in her life alongside Boldwood and Sergeant Troy.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Gabriel Oak is the protagonist of Far from the Madding Crowd, a novel by this author of Jude the Obscure.
  Part 3 (ans: Fanny's child [or Sergeant Troy's child; or baby; or infant; accept obvious equivalents]):
    While married to Sergeant Troy, Bathsheba is horrified to find this object inside of Fanny Robin's coffin, despite Gabriel's repeated lies to cover up its existence.

[B25] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem set in one of these locations says that "there is something horrible about a flower" and tells his deceased fiancee that "you do not miss a rose." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cemetery [or graveyard; accept country churchyard or "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard" or "In Nunhead Cemetery"]):
    Name these places, one of which is called Nunhead in the title of a poem by Charlotte Mew. Thomas Gray stated that "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day" to open an "elegy" written in one of these places.
  Part 2 (ans: statues coming to life [accept any answer mentioning statues or sculptures and living or speaking or similar actions indicating "life"]):
    "In Nunhead Cemetery" states that this action will occur at Trafalgar Square when the "bell of Judgement tolls." In a Susanna Clarke novel, Mr. Norrell proves his magical powers by making this action occur at York Cathedral.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This contemporary of Mew regarded her as "far and away the best living woman poet." This writer wrote of how the sound of "gunnery practice out at sea" broke "the chancel window-squares" in his poem "Channel Firing."
