=== STOCK CLUES: The Darkling Thrush ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem sees this animal "frail, gaunt, and small" when leaning "upon a coppice gate." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the darkling thrush (The poem is by Thomas Hardy.)):
    Name this title animal whose song expresses "some blessed Hope, whereof he knew/ and I was unaware." It is described with the same unusual adjective used for a plain in "Dover Beach."
  Part 2 (ans: John Clare):
    In "Pleasure's Past," this poet describes a thrush in the Northamptonshire dialect as a "speckt throstle." This poet narrated a starving, four day escape from a mental asylum in "Journey Out of Essex."
  Part 3 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    This poet's "The Tables Turned" exclaims "how blithe the throstle sings!" This Romantic poet of "Tintern Abbey" collaborated with Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads.

[B2] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, God says "It will be warmer when I blow the trumpet." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Channel Firing"):
    Name this poem delivered from the perspective of a corpse who hears "great guns" that "shook all our coffins as we lay."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Darkling Thrush"):
    In this other poem written by the author of "Channel Firing," the speaker leans on a "coppice gate" and notices the title "frail, gaunt, and small" bird.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    "Channel Firing" and "The Darkling Thrush" are both poems written by this author of Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.

[B3] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem was first published as "By the Century's Deathbed" on December 19th, 1900. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Darkling Thrush"):
    Name this poem that proclaims "every spirit upon earth / Seemed fervourless as I." The narrator of this poem sees "So little cause for carolings" as "Winter's dregs made desolate / The weakening eye of day."
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    This author of "The Darkling Thrush" also wrote The Mayor of Casterbridge and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
  Part 3 (ans: shipwreck [or equivalents like sinking of a ship; accept "The Wreck of the Deutschland" or sinking of the Titanic]):
    Hardy described one of these events in a poem that notes "The sea-worm crawls" and considers "The Immanent Will that stirs and urges everything." Gerard Manley Hopkins dedicated a poem about one of these events "To the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns."

[B4] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet invoked a metaphor from Jeremiah in the title of a poem declaring that "War's annals will cloud into night / Ere their story die." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    Identify this poet who wrote that "the smile on your mouth was the deadest thing / Alive enough to have strength to die" in his poem "Neutral Tones," penned "In the Time of 'The Breaking of Nations,'" and created a darkly comic depiction of the plight of lower-class women in "The Ruined Maid."
  Part 2 (ans: "The Darkling Thrush"):
    Hardy commemorated the turn of the twentieth century with this poem, his most famous, which describes an aged bird, "frail, gaunt, and small, In blast-beruffled plume," that "had chosen thus to fling his soul / Upon the growing gloom."
  Part 3 (ans: Immanent Will [prompt on partial answer]):
    Hardy gave this name to the force which he believed shapes the course of human events. In "The Convergence of the Twain," it "stirs and urges everything," including the collision of the Titanic with the iceberg, and it purportedly gains consciousness in Hardy's verse-drama The Dynasts.

[B5] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The sestet of this sonnet laments that "crass Casualty obstructs the sun and rain, and dicing Time for gladness casts a moan." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Hap"):
    Name this sonnet, whose speaker hopes that "some vengeful god would call to me" and laugh, "Thou suffering thing, know that thy sorrow is my ecstasy, that thy love's loss is my hate's profiting!"
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Hardy):
    "Hap" was written by this poet, who wrote the novels Far From the Madding Crowd and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Darkling Thrush"):
    In this Hardy poem about the close of the 19th-century, when "every spirit upon earth seemed fervourless as I," he concludes that the title bird sings of "some blessed hope, whereof he knew and I was unaware."
