=== STOCK CLUES: Martin Fierro ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 12 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 7 found, 21 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Martin Fierro [accept El Gaucho Martin Fierro; accept La Vuelta de Martin Fierro or The Return of Martin Fierro]
  - Toward the end of this poem, four characters make a promise so secret the speaker does not even know it, and they each changed their name "from the one men had known [them] under." Two characters in this poem are captured and kept alive since they are worth "more alive than dead" shortly before they are informed of an upcoming attack "on the cursed Christian men." In this poem, one character recounts his past when telling the story of his (+) tutor who robbed him of the inheritance left to him by his aunt. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of this poem is helped by a policeman who later dies from smallpox after he nurses a (*) native chief. [PWR]
  - Toward the beginning of this poem, the protagonist is conscripted into the army after he does not vote for a judge.
  - In one part of this poem, the title character has a singing contest with the brother of a black man he had previously killed.
  - The title gaucho lays his guitar down at the end of, for 10 points, what epic poem written by Jose Hernandez? [GIVE]

[T2] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: singing contest in Martin Fierro [or the payada in Martin Fierro]
  - In this section of a larger work, one character compares the law to a spider's web that can be broken by big insects and only catches smaller ones. [PWR]
  - This passage ends when an illiterate man can't answer a riddle about what work should be done during months with Rs in their names. [PWR]
  - One character in this passage explains the nature of quantity, measurement, weight, and time after asking a man to describe the sky, the earth, the sea, the night, and love. [PWR]
  - The short story "The End" imagines the two participants in this passage meeting for the second time, with one killing the other.
  - That story was written by (*) Borges, whose essay "The Argentine Writer and Tradition" notes that this passage dispenses with local color and deals with abstract philosophical themes.
  - At the start of this passage, a black man challenges a character who murdered his brother in a duel, with both characters accompanied by their guitars.
  - For 10 points, name this competition between two gauchos that takes place near the end of a poem by Jose Hernandez. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a satirical poem by Estanislao del Campo, Anastasio the Chicken tries to recount an operatic retelling of this person, but accidentally reenacts his life instead. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Faust [accept Heinrich Faust or Johann Georg Faust; accept Doctor Faustus; accept Fausto]):
    Name this scholar from German legend, whose pact with the demon Mephistopheles is depicted in a play by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe ("GUR-tuh").
  Part 2 (ans: gauchos (The epic poem is Martin Fierro.)):
    In Campo's poem Fausto, Anastasio the Chicken is one of these people. One of these people kills a Black man in a knife fight in an epic poem by Jose Hernandez.
  Part 3 (ans: The Devil to Pay in the Backlands [or Grande Sertao: Veredas]):
    The jagunco ("zhah-GOON-soo") Riobaldo ("hee-oo-BAO-doo") makes a Faustian bargain in this supposedly untranslatable novel by Joao Guimaraes Rosa ("zhoo-OW ghee-muh-RICE HO-zuh"), which ends after the death of the androgynous Diadorim ("jee-uh-doh-REEM") in a knife fight.

[B2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator goes home with La Lujanera ("loo-hah-NEH-rah") shortly after the Sticker rejects the Yardmaster's invitation to one of these events in the story "Man on Pink Corner." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: knife fights [accept answers indicating a duel fought with knives; prompt on fight or duel by asking "using what sort of weapon?"] (The second story is "The South.")):
    Identify these events. In another story, a librarian reading the Arabian Nights "steps out into the plains... without hope [or] fear" and pictures a "joyous fiesta" after some farm workers make him join one of these events.
  Part 2 (ans: Martin Fierro [or Martin Fierro]):
    Jorge Luis Borges's story "Man on Pink Corner" was published in a journal named for this character, whose death is imagined in his story "The End." This man becomes an outlaw after killing a black man in a knife fight in an epic poem by Jose Hernandez.
  Part 3 (ans: gauchos):
    Borges rejected Leopoldo Lugones's claim that Martin Fierro was the quintessential epic of these people. Argentine criollismo ("cree-oh-YEES-moh") literature celebrated these cowboys who roamed the Pampas.

[B3] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story that continues the plot of this poem, Recabarren witnesses this poem's protagonist die at the hand of a Black guitarist. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Fierro):
    Name this epic poem by Jose Hernandez about the adventures of the title gaucho, who engages in payadas and kills a Black man in a knife fight.
  Part 2 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic or Republica Argentina] (The story in the lead-in is "The End" by Borges.)):
    Martin Fierro is set in this country. The short story "El Sur," which parodied this country's gaucho lifestyle, was written by its native author Jorge Luis Borges.
  Part 3 (ans: Ocampo [accept Victoria Ocampo or Silvina Ocampo]):
    Borges's story "El Sur" shares its name with a magazine published by an Argentine author with this surname. Another author with this surname was the only female editor of an anthology called The Book of Fantasy.

[B4] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about Argentine literature:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Fierro [or El gaucho Martin Fierro]):
    This epic poem by the Argentine writer Jose Hernandez is centred on the life of the titular gaucho, and on his contribution to the national development of Argentina.
  Part 2 (ans: Jorge Francisco Isidoro LuisBorges):
    This author analysed Martin Fierro, commenting that its aesthetic merit does not indicate moral merit for its protagonist. In 1933, he first published the pieces collected as A Universal History of Infamy. This collection includes several literary forgeries which anticipate this author's Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius.
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    Chilean novelist Roberto Bolano cited Borges and this author as key influences on his novel The Savage Detectives. Michelangelo Antonioni's film Blowup was inspired by this writer's story Las babas del diablo, while Jean-Luc Godard based his film Week-End on this author's La autopista del sur.

[B5] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character claims that "I'm the bull in my own herd/ and a braver bull in the next one" and prophesies "Singing I'll die, singing they'll bury me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Fierro):
    Name this character, the titular hero of an epic by Jose Hernandez. This gaucho insults a woman in a bar and kills her boyfriend in the ensuing duel; he and Sergeant Cruz go to live among the natives, but are taken prisoner.
  Part 2 (ans: payada):
    Martin Fierro is written with the verse structure of this type of rural ballad. Fierro has a singing duel of this type of song with the younger brother of the man he killed previously.
  Part 3 (ans: Argentina [or the Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina]):
    Martin Fierro is set in this country, home to the authors Manuel Puig and Julio Cortazar. Its nationalist poetry claimed to represent its gauchos and to reflect the nature of the Pampas.

[B6] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following works of 19th-century Latin American literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Fierro):
    The protagonist of this two-part gaucho epic by Jose Hernandez has a night-long singing duel with a black singer and escapes from captivity after the plague death of his friend Sergeant Cruz.
  Part 2 (ans: Dom Casmurro [by Joaquim Machado de Assis]):
    Bento Santiago is inspired by a Shakespeare play to claim that his son Ezekiel was fathered by his friend Escobar, who supposedly had an affair with Bento's wife Capitu, in this 1899 novel.
  Part 3 (ans: The Mangy Parrot [or El Periquillo Sarniento; or The Itchy Parrot; prompt on "El Periquillo"]):
    This Jose Fernandez de Lizardi novel is considered to be the first novel written and published in Latin America. It takes its name from the nickname given to its protagonist, Pedro Sarmiento.

[B7] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This book, subtitled "Civilization and Barbarism," begins with a lengthy description of Argentina's geography. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Facundo: Civilization and Barbarism [or Facundo: Civilizacion y Barbarie]):
    Name this book about the life of a leader nicknamed "the Tiger of the Plains."
  Part 2 (ans: gaucho literature [or gauchesco]):
    Sarmiento's Facundo influenced this Argentine literary genre, which focuses on Argentine cowboys. Perhaps the most famous novel from this genre is Ricardo Guiraldes' Don Segundo Sombra.
  Part 3 (ans: Martin Fierro [accept either name]):
    The greatest work of gaucho poetry is the two-part epic by Jose Hernandez about this gaucho who befriends Sergeant Cruz.
