=== STOCK CLUES: Sufism ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 70 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 39 found, 116 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sufism [or Sufi; or Sufiyya; or Tasawwuf; accept Sufi music; prompt on Islam]
  - Playing a style of music from this religious tradition on jazz instruments is the specialty of a Brook Martinez-led band named for a Brooklyn party of that genre. [PWR]
  - A member of this tradition collaborated with Michael Brook on Night Song and released the album Mustt Mustt. [PWR]
  - A style of music from this religious tradition commonly played at urs ceremonies is performed by The Sabri Brothers. [PWR]
  - That style from this tradition strongly influenced (*) gnawa  music. [PWR]
  - Sama or sema ceremonies among this tradition often feature the ney flute and tambourines.
  - Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan was a vocalist in the qawwali singing style in this religious tradition.
  - For 10 points, name this mystical Islamic tradition whose Mevlevi order includes the "whirling dervishes." [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Sufism [or Tasawwuf; or Sufiyyah; accept sufei zhuyi; prompt on Islam until read; prompt on Naqshbandi or Chishti or Mevlevi until read by asking "which are part of what larger tradition?"]
  - Chinese practitioners of this tradition construct gongbei memorials on the graves of menhuan lineage founders.
  - This tradition was introduced to Australia by Friedrich von Frankenberg, whose student Francis Brabazon built the "Avatar's Abode" to house the leader of "[this tradition] Reoriented." The Yan Taru movement was created to further women's education by a West African follower of this tradition, Nana Asma'u.
  - The concept of fana' is followed by baqa', or "perpetual existence," in this tradition whose practices often revolve around dhikr, or remembrance of God.
  - Ascetics from this tradition's Mevlevi tariqa called "dervishes" perform a namesake "whirling" dance.
  - For 10 points, what mystic Islamic tradition inspired Rumi's Masnavi? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Answer: Islam [or al-Islam; or Sufism; or Ash'arism or Ash'arite theology until it is read; or belief in Allah; prompt on belief in God or theism or religion until "religion" is read] [The first clue refers to al-Razi. The unnamed novel is Hayy ibn Yaqzan, by Ibn Tufayl.]
  - Fragments and testimonies that claim to contradict this belief system preserve a philosopher's "Five Eternal Principles." The protagonist of a novel realizes it is impossible to convince others of this belief system, so he returns to the island where he was raised by a deer.
  - This belief system is incompatible with the view that the world is "pre-eternal," according to a book that identifies twenty ways another philosopher contradicts this belief system.
  - The Ash'ari school is an interpretation of this belief system.
  - Aristotelianism is incompatible with this religion, according to a book refuted by Averroes called The Incoherence of the Philosophers.
  - For 10 points, name this religion of Golden Age philosophers like Al-Ghazali. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sufism [or Sufiyya; or Tasawwuf; accept Mevlevi order; prompt on Muslim or Islam; prompt on Jebala]
  - At an annual festival limited to 50 attendees, musicians from this religious tradition play instruments like the lira and gimbri.
  - At Glastonbury 2023, the first artist on the Pyramid Stage was a collective from this religious tradition called the Master Musicians of Joujouka .
  - A musician from this religious tradition released a 1988 album on Real World whose title means "King of Kings," a nickname he earned for abilities like very rapid performance of sargam.
  - Musicians from this religious tradition who appeared on Peter Gabriel's soundtrack for The Last Temptation of Christ include the ney player Kudsi Erguner and the virtuoso behind the album Mustt Mustt.
  - This religious tradition's devotional singers include Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, a qawwali performer.
  - For 10 points, name this tradition whose music often accompanies meditative "whirling." [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Sufism [accept taSawwuf; accept Mouride brotherhood or Mouridism until read]
  - A poem in praise of the women of this tradition, which mentions the sainthood of Rabi'a Basri, was written by Nana Asma'u. [PWR]
  - Members of this tradition drink coffee flavored with peppery seeds called djar during the Grand Magal pilgrimage to Touba, where this tradition's Mouride offshoot is based. [PWR]
  - A group from this tradition called the Chishtis gave rise to (*) Qawwali singing in South Asia. [PWR]
  - Some adherents of this tradition may use erotic poetry in the sama ceremony for the goal of attaining wajd, or ecstasy.
  - Members of this tradition seek to become closer to Allah by practicing various types of dhikr, including a silent form practiced by the Naqshbandi order.
  - The Mevlevi order is, for 10 points, the best-known order of what Islamic tradition that is known for whirling dances? [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Sufism [or Tasawwuf; prompt on more general answers like Islam or Islamic mysticism before read]
  - Members of this religious tradition are sometimes referred to using a term that literally translates to "desirous ones." Followers of this tradition originated the idea of the Insan-i Kamil, or the "Perfected Man" who heads a hierarchy of saints who uphold the world order. [PWR]
  - Followers of this tradition have a "silsila" forming a chain of teachers back to Muhammad, and may be organized into a "tariqa" or order.
  - Many followers of this tradition engage in highly ritualized forms of (*) dhikr, a form of meditation or repetition of words to aid in contemplating God. [PWR]
  - A 13th century poet who wrote the Spiritual Couplets inspired the Mevlevi Order of this tradition, which includes whirling dervishes.
  - For 10 points, the poetry of Rumi was inspired by what tradition of Islamic mysticism? [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Answer: Sufism [or Sufi Islam; or as-sufiyya; or at-tasawwuf; accept Naqshbandi before "Amadou" is read; prompt on (Sunni or Shia) Islam before mention; anti-prompt on Mouride before mention] (The ego-annihilation concept is fana and the state of alignment with divine purposes is baqaa.)
  - The city of Linxia is home to the shrine of an early modern Chinese leader in this religious lineage named Ma Laichi. [PWR]
  - This lineage developed a concept of ego-annihilation termed "dying before one dies," enabling a three-graded state of alignment with the divine plan. [PWR]
  - A massive annual pilgrimage among this lineage called the Grand Magal commemorates Amadou Bamba. [PWR]
  - The preponderance of mausoleums of figures from this tradition garnered Uch and Multan, Pakistan the nickname "City of (*) Saints." The Mouride is one sect within this tradition. [PWR]
  - Buildings called khanqah are constructed near dargah shrines in this tradition.
  - A ritual from a school of this tradition involves a flute improvisation called taksim and is called sama.
  - This lineage's Naqshbandi school teaches a practice where one synchronizes invocations of God's names with heartbeats.
  - Sects in this tradition organize around leaders who trace their lineage back to Muhammad called wali, forming a tariqa.
  - For 10 points, name this "mystical" lineage of Islam whose Mevlevi sect practices "whirling." [GIVE]

[T8] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Sufism [or Tasawwuf; accept dervishism; accept Mevlevi before read; accept Ambient Sufism; prompt on Islamic mysticism or Islam or Muslim before "Islamic"]
  - The contributions of women, Jews, and hard-drinking laborers to this tradition's music are examined in a Richard C.
  - Jankowsky study of its "ambient" character.
  - Different branches of this tradition are represented by each of the bright colors of the tanoura garment.
  - Performing a song form associated with this tradition brought fame to the Sabri Brothers.
  - People from this tradition were historically depicted wearing woolen clothes, reflecting the possible etymology of this tradition's name as referring to "those who wear wool." Poetry from this tradition is performed by qawwali vocalists like Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan.
  - Orders in this tradition called tariqat include the Chishtis, Qadiris, and Naqshbandis.
  - For 10 points, the Mevlevi order of what Islamic mystical tradition practices a whirling dance? [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Sufi Islam [or Sufism; accept Mevlevi movement; prompt on Islam or Muslim until "Islamic" is read]
  - A novel about an adherent of this religion, in which every chapter starts with the letter "B," is titled The Forty Rules of Love.
  - A book of discourses called "It Is What It Is" was collected by an adherent of this religion, who wrote a poem that states "it's best to cut conversation short, say good-bye, and leave" if someone declines to listen to the title song.
  - Poems that were loosely translated into English by Coleman Barks were written by an adherent of this religion who wrote the "Song of the Reed Flute." A follower of this religion collected ninety ghazals  in his Divan, which was dedicated to his teacher, Shams of Tabriz.
  - That follower of this religion wrote the Spiritual Couplets.
  - The poet Rumi was a member of, for 10 points, what mystical Islamic tradition? [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 Chicago Open (2019) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Answer: (Indian) Sufism [accept Mevlevis; prompt on Muslims]
  - A performer in one of this group's musical traditions provided the vocals for the song "Passion" on Peter Gabriel's soundtrack to The Last Temptation of Christ.
  - A musical tradition among some members of this group often features the audience showering money on the performers in a practice called vel, and features a group of vocalists called a "party." A devotional practice among this group involves clothing like the white frock tannur and the long-sleeved destegul, as well as a tall, somewhat pill-shaped (*) cap called a sikke. [PWR]
  - Many of this group's practices are designed to rid observers of the nafs, or "self." Devotional ceremonies held by this group are called sama.
  - Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan performs a style of music in this devotional tradition called Qawwali.
  - For 10 points, name this group whose Mevlevi order is known as the "Whirling Dervishes." [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 WORLDSTAR (2018) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Answer: turuq [or tariqas; also accept Sufi orders or any type of organization described as Sufi; accept Sufism outright until "offshoot" and prompt on that or answers like mystics alone thereafter; anti-prompt on any specific tariqa]
  - Fazlur Rahman argued that these organizations started to emphasize political activism in the 18th and 19th centuries at the cost of their "metaphysical character" in his hypothesis of their "neo-" version. [PWR]
  - Debates between the positions of "unity of witness" and "unity of being" resulted in an offshoot of one of these groups in India that was spread to Iraq by Khalid al-Baghdadi and that was founded by Ahmad Sirhindi.
  - Ahmad al-Tijani founded one of the first of them to require exclusive (*) membership and one founded by Ahmadou Bamba is extremely influential in Senegal.
  - Those joining these organizations often receive a cloak called a khirqa and many formed around meeting places called a khanqah or tekke, and leaders of them often trace spiritual lineages called silsila to ʿAli.
  - For 10 points, name these central organizations, like the Naqshbandiyya and Mevlevis, of Islamic mysticism. [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Sufism [I guess you can prompt early on "Islam"]
  - One of this religion's saints was rewarded for service at the Battle of Haldighati with a marble tomb that became the center of Fatehpur Sikri; that mentor of Akbar, Salim, was a member of this faith's Chishti Order founded by Abu Shami. [PWR]
  - Early Western scholarship on this faith was popularized by Ivan Agueli and Rene Guinon, and its major schools include the Naqshbandi and Mevlevi. [PWR]
  - This faith's sama ceremony is often derided as bidah for institutionalizing the group practice of (*) dhikr, the recitation of the names of God. [PWR]
  - Achieving the ultimate divine unity embodied by tawhid is the goal of this faith's most famous practice, which was popularized by poets like Rumi.
  - For 10 points, identify this sect of mystical Islam whose followers are often known as "Dervishes" for their whirling. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Nana Asma'u started the Yan Taru movement in this state in 1838 to empower and educate women. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sokoto Caliphate):
    Name this West African Islamic state founded by Nana Asma'u's father, Usman Dan Fodio, who sought to spread religious truth.
  Part 2 (ans: Al-Ghazali):
    Usman Dan Fodio's treatise on the revival of the traditions and support for the teaching of religious sciences was influenced by this Islamic theologian's Revival of the Religious Sciences.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism):
    One reason for the influence of Al-Ghazali's Revival of Religious Sciences in the Sokoto Caliphate was its harmony with this tradition of Islamic mysticism practiced by whirling dervishes.

[B2] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Sema ceremonies from this tradition are held as part of a wider aim to annihilate the nafs, a goal referred to as fana. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    Name this tradition whose tariqa lineages include the Bektashi and Naqshbandi orders.
  Part 2 (ans: jihad):
    The Sufi struggle against the nafs, or self, is a form of this concept "of the heart." That "Greater struggle" is contrasted with the outward form of this concept used to refer to holy wars.
  Part 3 (ans: dhikr("DICK-er" or "thicker")):
    Per Surah Ar-Ra'd, many Sufis' hearts "find peace" when they engage in this practice of remembrance by chanting various duʿa and Allah's many names.

[B3] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Jahan Shah, the leader of one polity named for these animals, was defeated by another polity named for these animals at the battle of Chapakchur. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sheep [or qoyunlar; accept Aq Qoyunlu; accept Qara Qoyunlu; accept White Sheep Turkomans; accept Black Sheep Turkomans]):
    Name these animals, from the colour of whose coats two fifteenth-century Turko-Persian polities derive their names.
  Part 2 (ans: Uzun Hasan [or Tall Hasan; accept Hassan in place of Hasan; prompt on Hasan with "of what length?"] (Ismail I's mother, Halima Begum, was Uzun Hasan's daughter.)):
    The Aq Qoyunlu ("ACK coy-UN-loo") who defeated Jahan Shah were led by this ruler, under whom the territory reached its greatest extent. Less than 25 years after this ruler's death, the Aq Qoyunlu fell to the Qizilbash ("KIZ-ill-bash") forces of this ruler's grandson Ismail I.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism [accept Sufi orders; accept at-Tasawwuf]):
    The Safavids established Shi'a Islam as the state religion of Iran under Ismail I, whose originally Kurdish family had risen to prominence as leaders of tariqas("ta-REEK-as") of this mystical Islamic tradition.

[B4] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This country's "unofficial national anthem" is a pop song by the band Vital Signs whose refrain repeats a word meaning "heart" twice before its name. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pakistan [or Islamic Republic of Pakistan; or Islamic Republic of Pakistan] (The song is "Dil Dil Pakistan.")):
    Name this home country of a singer whom Jeff Buckley viewed as a teacher. That singer from this country composed the song "Afreen Afreen" and was often known by his initials.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [or Sufiyya; or Tasawwuf; accept Mevlevi order; prompt on Jebala]):
    Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan was known as the "Shahenshah," or "king of kings," of qawwali, a devotional music style of this religious tradition. This mystical Islamic tradition's dervishes perform a "whirling" worship dance.
  Part 3 (ans: Massive Attack):
    The first Urdu song to chart in the UK was this band's electronic remix of Nusrat's song "Mustt Mustt." Robert Del Naja ("NAH-yuh") leads this band from Bristol, who recorded songs like "Angel" and "Teardrop" for their seminal trip hop album Mezzanine.

[B5] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: According to a dubious legend, this scholar passed the torch that Muhammad Bello used to torch the Gobir capital of Alkalawa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nana Asma'u):
    Name this scholar and poet who founded the Yan Taru movement, a network of women's educators who traveled to rural communities to teach Islamic theology, particularly to adherents of the Bori religion.
  Part 2 (ans: Sokoto Caliphate):
    Nana Asma'u was the daughter of Usman dan Fodio, the first caliph of this Fulani caliphate that conquered much of Hausaland in Nigeria in the early 19th century.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism):
    Usman dan Fodio and Nana Asma'u belonged to the Qadiriyya order of this mystical Islamic tradition.

[B6] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The practice of chilla, in which a practitioner fasts and prays in a dark space, is usually done for this many days. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 40 [or forty]):
    Give this number of days that names the Arba'een pilgrimage, because it takes place this number of days after Ashura.
  Part 2 (ans: Ahmadiyya Muslim Community [or Ahmadiyya Muslim Jama'at; ort AMJ; or al-Jama'ah al-Islamiyah al-Ahmadiyah; or Jama'at Ahmadiyyah Muslimah; accept Qadiyani or Mirzai but note that many Ahmadiyya Muslims consider those terms derogatory]):
    This Muslim group was founded after Mirza Ghulam, whom it considers the Mahdi, performed a chilla in Hoshiarpur. This offshoot of Sunni Islam was founded in Punjab but has been persecuted in Pakistan.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufi Islam [or Sufism; or tasawwuf; or at-tasawwuf; or as-sufiyya]):
    Chilla is most commonly performed by Muslims associated with this Islamic mystical tradition, which is divided into many orders.

[B7] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The Naqshbandi and Chishti are two orders of this tradition, which can fall under either Sunni or Shia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    Name this mystical Islamic religious tradition. The Mevlevi order within this tradition practices a form of whirling meditation.
  Part 2 (ans: dhikr [or zikr or thikr]):
    This form of meditative practice, whose name means "remembrance," involves chanting phrases in order to focus on God. The whirling of the Mevlevi order is a form of this practice.
  Part 3 (ans: the Tasbih [or at-Tasbih]):
    This name is given to the phrase "subhan Allah," or "glory to God," in the same way that the Takbir is the name for the phrase "Allahu akbar." This prayer is said 33 times in the Fatima dhikr.

[B8] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This branch of Islam is characterized by its focus on purification, spirituality, ritualism, asceticism, and esotericism. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [Accept Tasawwuf]):
    Name this branch of Islam whose members historically belong to orders known as tariqa.
  Part 2 (ans: Mevlevi order [Accept Mawlawiyya, Whirling Dervishes]):
    This Sufi Order was founded by the followers of Sufi Mystic Rumi. You can give either the official name or the name they are known by from their famous dance.
  Part 3 (ans: Dhikr [or Zikr]):
    Dervishes whirl while performing this action of remembering God or verses from the Qu'ran or Hadith

[B9] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: After the conversion of many Middle Eastern merchants to Islam under the Abbasids, the religion spread through their caravans. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Sufis]):
    Islam was spread throughout the steppes largely by followers of this mystical tradition who often accompanied those merchant caravans.
  Part 2 (ans: Samanid Empire [or Samanian Empire; or Samanids]):
    Islam and Persian culture spread into central Asia under this dynasty of the 9th and 10th centuries. This dynasty sponsored Ferdowsi, whose Shanameh was finished after this dynasty was conquered by the Ghaznavids.
  Part 3 (ans: Bukhara [accept Emirate of Bukhara]):
    Baha' al-Din Naqshband, the namesake of Naqshbandi Sufism, was from this city where the Samanids had been based. A much later emirate named for this city was conquered by the Russians in the 1860s and controlled most of modern Uzbekistan.

[B10] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about gardens in Persian poetry, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Layla [or Layli]):
    Nizami frequently compares this woman to a fertile garden in a long poem about her, the third poem in his Khamsa. In that poem, this woman is loved by the madman Majnun, whom Nizami compares to a barren desert.
  Part 2 (ans: Saadi):
    This poet wrote, "Human beings are body parts of each other" in the poem Bani Adam from his collection Gulistan, which means "rose garden." This poet included chapters on humility and love in his Bustan.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism [accept word forms like Sufi]):
    Mahmoud Shabestari wrote a book of poems in this Islamic mystic tradition called The Secret Rose Garden. Another poet from this tradition, Rumi, wrote many ghazals depicting gardens in springtime.

[B11] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: Dhikr is a form of Islamic meditation that makes use of these religious items. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: prayer beads):
    Misbaha usually consist of three groups of 33 of these items, corresponding to the names of Allah, separated by two smaller versions of these items called imams.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    Dhikr is a practice from this mystical Islamic tradition. Dervishes are ascetic followers of this tradition who can be recognized by their practice of whirling.
  Part 3 (ans: tariqa):
    Many Sufi orders are also known by this Arabic term, which refers to a school or order of Sufism that seeks the haqiqa, or ultimate truth. The muridin follow the murshid, or guide, under this type of Sufi school.

[B12] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Jessica Beshir's 2021 documentary Faya Dayi examines the ritual use of this substance in Harer, Ethiopia, where Allah legendarily gave it to the immortality-seeking emir Azurkherlaini ("ah-zoor-kur-LYE-nee"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: qat ("kaht") [or khat; or qaad; or ch'at; or jimaa; or gat; accept Catha edulis]):
    Name this drug whose stimulatory effects enable many Muslims in the Horn of Africa and Yemen to pray for hours on end during Ramadan.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    In Harer, qat is mainly used by members of this mystical sect of Islam to facilitate spiritual experiences and heighten their sense of union with Allah.
  Part 3 (ans: Ashura):
    Sufis in Harer commemorate this holiday by feeding hyenas porridge to receive prosperity. This holiday commemorating Husayn ibn 'Ali's martyrdom at the Battle of Karbala is particularly observed by Shia Muslims.

[B13] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A work by this author describes how the title instrument is inspired by 'the fire of love' and 'complains, lamenting its banishment from its home'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rumi [or Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi or Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Balkhi; accept Mevlana or Mawlana or Mevlevi or Mawlawi]):
    Name this author, who wrote "The Song of the Reed Flute". A collection by this author depicts their closeness with their spiritual instructor Shams-i-Tabrizi.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism):
    Rumi's Masnavi is closely associated with this mystic belief system within Islam, and teaches adherents of this mystic belief system how to attain the goal of loving God.
  Part 3 (ans: Coleman Barks):
    This translator of Rumi has been criticised for erasing Islamic elements from Rumi's poetry. This American academic neither reads nor speaks Persian, but wrote the so-called translation The Essential Rumi.

[B14] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: Scholars have drawn parallels between Dante's Beatrice to Nizham, the woman who initiated this philosopher into God's love, as described in his Meccan Illuminations. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ibn ʿArabi [or al-Qushayri; or Abu ʿAbdallah Muhammad ibn ʿAli ibn al-ʿArabi al-Ta'i al-Hatimi; do NOT accept "Arabi" alone]):
    Name this Andalusian scholar and mystic, the author of The Ringstones of Wisdom. His heavily Qur'an-focused work devotes much attention to the implications of God's "engendering command," or amr, to "Be!"
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    While Ibn ʿArabi did not consider himself part of this broad Islamic mystical tradition, his work was so foundational to its various branches that he is called ash-Shaykh al-Abkar, or its greatest shaykh.
  Part 3 (ans: oneness of God [or singleness of God; accept "There is no God but God" or equivalent translations; accept la ʾilaha ʾilla Llah; accept monotheism]):
    It's not existence, but Ibn ʿArabi took this property of God, known as tawhid in Arabic, to be the truth upon which all other truths in his philosophy are based.

[B15] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: The book The Bezels of Wisdom describes how a figure with this attribute confronts the "reality of realities" at the "station of no station." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: perfection [or word forms like perfect or perfectionism; or al-insan al-kamil]):
    Identify this attribute of a "man" who is compared to a "polished mirror" in the mystical philosophy of Ibn 'Arabi. Stanley Cavell has developed an "Emersonian" philosophy named for the moral type of this attribute.
  Part 2 (ans: being [or existence; or al-wujud; accept Great Chain of Being]):
    Ibn 'Arabi's "perfect man" understands the unity, or wahdat ("wa-hid-DOT"), of this concept, whose "univocity" was theorized by Duns Scotus. Medieval philosophers often discussed the "great chain of" this concept.
  Part 3 (ans: Daoism [or Taoism; accept Sufism and Taoism]):
    Toshihiko Izutsu linked the "perfect man" with this tradition's sages in a book titled for "Sufism and" this tradition. Laozi ("LAO-tzuh") is credited with founding this school of Chinese thought.

[B16] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: These groups, which each have an associated lineage or silsilah, create lodges called khanaqahs or zawiyahs that also serve as hostels for travelers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufi Orders [or schools of Sufism; or tariqa]):
    Name these groups in which students, called muridun, receive guidance from a murshid. In India, prominent examples of these groups include the Qadiriyyah and the Naqshbandiyyah.
  Part 2 (ans: Rumi [or Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi]):
    The Mevlevi order, the most popular Sufi order in the West, is based on the teachings of this famous Sufi poet. This student of Shams of Tabriz authored a long mystical poem called the Masnavi.
  Part 3 (ans: Chishti Order [or Chishtiyyah]):
    Akbar the Great was a patron of this Sufi order, to which the musician Amir Khusrau belonged. The Sufi saint who brought this order to India is buried in a famous dargah at Ajmer.

[B17] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's arguments for Ancient Egyptian influence in Sub-Saharan African culture included a purported link between the religion of his home country's Serer people and Egypt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cheikh Anta Diop):
    Name this theorist who expounded his theories on pan-African religion and culture in books like The African Origin of Civilization.
  Part 2 (ans: Republic of Senegal [or Republique du Senegal]):
    Diop was born in this modern country, where his politically-influential Muridiyya sect has de facto rule over their holy city of Touba. Arabic script is often used to write religious manuscripts in this country's Wolof language.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism [accept tasawwuf]):
    The Muridiyya and Tijaniyya are African-based examples of "brotherhoods" based on this tradition of Islamic mysticism.

[B18] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This religious order was first introduced to the western world by the proselytizing activities of the Inayati Order. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism):
    Name this mystical form of Islam, which was practiced by al-Ghazali and Ibn Arabi. The Mevlevi order of this tradition are known as "whirling dervishes" for their practice of spinning as a way of connecting to God.
  Part 2 (ans: Meher Baba [or Merwan Sheriar Irani]):
    Sufism had a strong influence on this spiritual master and founder of Sufism Reoriented. This author of God Speaks was known for carrying out a 44 year vow of silence, teaching using an alphabet board and hand gestures.
  Part 3 (ans: tawhid):
    Inayat Khan, the founder of the International Sufi Movement, centered his belief on the unity of God with all things, which he referred to with this term. This Arabic term is more commonly used to refer to the Islamic belief in monotheism.

[B19] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This text's extended metaphor includes "a blessed olive tree, neither of the east nor of the west". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Light Verse [or Verse of Light; or Ayah an-Nur; or Ayat an-Nur; accept Quran 24:35]):
    Name this famously esoteric verse of the Qur'an that compares God to an object in a niche. A phrase from this verse is often used to describe God's infinite beauty and guidance.
  Part 2 (ans: al-Ghazali [or Abu Hamid Muhammad ibn Muhammad at-Tusiyy al-Gaz (z)aliy; accept Algazelus]):
    This Islamic scholar's commentary The Niche of Lights considers three types of light and says that the only true light is God, who is pure light. He promoted occasionalism in a treatise attacking Aristotelian philosophy.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    The Light Verse is particularly popular in this mystical Islamic tradition, which holds that all things were created from light.

[B20] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: This word proceeds "core" in a portmanteau term used to described hardcore and metal bands whose lyrics explore Islamic themes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: taqwa [accept taqwacore]):
    Give this Arabic term usually translated as "piety" or "fear of God." Individuals who possess this quality and thus are conscious of God are termed muttaqin.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [accept Sufirock]):
    Another Islam-inspired rock subgenre is named for this mystical movement, exemplified by the Pakistani band Junoon. Mevlevi Dervishes from this tradition are known for their whirling dance.
  Part 3 (ans: dhikr):
    This Sufi practice, which can be translated as "remembrance" or "utterance," can be accompanied by music and dance. Individuals engaging in this practice typically recite short devotional passages and count on prayer beads.

[B21] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: In Iran and the Indian subcontinent, practitioners of this form of Islam worship in buildings called khanqahs, and saints from this form of Islam are venerated at shrines called dargahs. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    Name this mystical form of Islam, whose followers emphasize the direct personal experience of God. People may follow this form of Islam as a part of an order called a tariqa claiming spiritual descent from Muhammad.
  Part 2 (ans: Mevlevi Order [or Mevleviyah or Mawlawiyah]):
    Members of this Sufi order based in Turkey are known as the "Whirling Dervishes" because of their performance of a dance called the sema that accompanies the recitation of dhikr ("thicker") prayers.
  Part 3 (ans: names of God [or beautiful names of Allah; or attributes of God or attributes of Allah; prompt on partial answers or asma'u llahi l-husna]):
    Dhikr can also involve the recitation of these phrases, of which there are 99 in the Quran. The Basmala invokes two of these phrases, "ar-Rahman" and "ar-Rahim."

[B22] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This sect produces devotional songs called qawwali. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Sufis, accept Mevlevi order, whirling dervishes, prompt on Sunni Islam]):
    Name this sect. An improvisatory flute solo called a taksim is part of its sama ceremony, which features a whirling dance.
  Part 2 (ans: nasheeds [or anasheed; or nasyid; or nesid]):
    This genre of Islamic music is usually performed a cappella or with some percussion, because ahadith prohibit most instruments. The Islamic State's "Dalat al-Islam Qamat" is a song in this halal genre.
  Part 3 (ans: they are microtonal [or they contain microtones or quarter tones; accept anything that mentions having smaller invertals or more tones than typical Western music]):
    The heptatonic maqamat on which Arabic music is based have this unusual feature, which is shared by the best-known pieces of Giacinto Scelsi. Western composers like Lou Harrison were inspired to write compositions with this feature by Genesis of a New Music, a book by Harry Partch.

[B23] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Science
     Leadin: Ballet isn't the only style of dance which features lots of notable turns. For 10 points each, answer some questions about the Sama ceremony.
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism):
    The Sama ceremony was created by Rumi, a member of this sect of Islam. The ceremony is performed as a devotional ritual by the Mevlevi Order in this mystical sect of Islam which emphasizes a personal relationship with Allah.
  Part 2 (ans: the Four Salams):
    Whirling only occurs during this section of the Sama ceremony. This section's name comes from the number of times the believers welcome Allah during the spiritual journey.

[B24] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This sect's most famous dance is meant to achieve a form of ecstasy known as wajd. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf; prompt on dervishes]):
    Name this mystical Islamic sect whose Mevlevi Order emphasizes experiencing Allah through emotional experiences like whirling to the music of a ney, or Turkish flute. It was heavily promoted by Rumi.
  Part 2 (ans: eagle feathers [or plumage]):
    In 1898, the Klickitat Native American Jake Hunt founded a religion based on spinning while holding a pair of these objects. In Lakota tradition, these objects are used to adorn sacred pipes as symbols of the Great Spirit.
  Part 3 (ans: loas [or lwas]):
    The Yanvalou ("yon-vah-loo") dance is used to invoke these spirits, who each have different types of dances associated with them, including some wild spinning motions. They include Damballah.

[B25] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Answer the following about the history of the philosophical tradition known as 'Ilm al-Kalam, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ashari school [or Asharites] (named for al-Ashari)):
    The Mu'tazila school of kalam often feuded with this other school of kalam named for a scholar called the "Champion of Islam." This school's occasionalist theory of causation was defended by al-Ghazali.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    A saint of this tradition named Khwajah Abdullah Ansari criticized kalam theology in his Dhamm al-Kalam. Thinkers in this mystic Islamic tradition often write about centers of spiritual perception called the "six subtleties."
  Part 3 (ans: Guide for the Perplexed [or Moreh Nevukhim; or Dalalat al-ha'irin; or Guide of the Perplexed; or Guide to the Perplexed]):
    A critique of certain branches of kalam closes this book written in the 1190s by a Jewish philosopher, which argues that God can only be properly described through negative conceptions.

[B26] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A philosopher of this religious group, ibn Arabi, collected his erotic poems of the nasib form in The Interpreter of Desires. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [accept the Mevlevi order]):
    Name this mystical sect whose poets Hafez and Rumi often wrote love poems expressing desire for union with the Beloved.
  Part 2 (ans: doves [prompt on birds]):
    A poem in ibn Arabi's The Interpreter of Desires addresses the command "gentle now" to these animals "of the thornberry and moringa thicket." Ibn Hazm's treatise on love is titled for the "neck-ring" of this sort of animal.
  Part 3 (ans: Attar of Nishapur [or Farid ud-Din Attar; or Abu Hamid bin Abu Bakr Ibrahim]):
    The "gentle moaning Turtle-dove" is one of the birds addressed at the beginning of this Sufi author's long poem The Conference of the Birds.

[B27] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Leadin: According to ibn Arabi, the highest form of this quality, or haqq, allows one to understand the inner substance of the heart to communicate with the angelic world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: yaqin [or yaqeen]):
    Give this term that in Islamic theology is often translated as "certainty". Ibn Alawa al-Haddad's Book of Assistance analogizes this quality to a "power of faith so great" that it becomes a "towering mountain".
  Part 2 (ans: Sufi Islam [or Sufism]):
    Yaqin is a form of gnosis, or knowing, in this branch of mystical Islam. Its members, the whirling dervishes, often enter a trance-like state through spinning.
  Part 3 (ans: tawhid [or ahadiya or wadiya]):
    According to ibn Arabi, once one reaches the second level of yaqin, they truly understand this aspect of Allah, which is his "oneness" and "singularity".

[B28] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Some orders of this religious sect have ritual performances called sama. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    Name this sect that meets inside lodges known as tekke. The Mevlevi order of this sect practices a particularly animated form of sama.
  Part 2 (ans: whirling [or spinning; or turning; accept answers indicating that the dervishes are rotating]):
    Mevlevi sama ceremonies often include this ritual action, which is performed by "dervishes" and may have been inspired by the movement of the planets around the sun.
  Part 3 (ans: dhikr (DEE-kur or d'HEE-kur) [or zikr; or zekr; or dikr; or adkar]):
    The Mevlevi practice of whirling, and the concept of sama more generally, is a component of this Islamic practice, which translates as "remembrance." This practice also takes the form of short prayers that may be recited with prayer beads.

[B29] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: In Buddhism, the twelve ayatanas consist of six organs of these things, in addition to their corresponding objects, while in Jainism, jivas, or beings, are classified by the number of these things that they possess. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: senses):
    Name these faculties, whose aforementioned associated organs in Buddhism are the eye, ear, nose, tongue, body and mind.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [prompt on Islam]):
    Some adherents of this religious practice are trained to unlock within themselves a group of super-sensory organs known as Lataif-e-sitta, or "The Six Subtleties."
  Part 3 (ans: skandhas):
    In Buddhist thought, physical sensation is one of the five elements that make up an individual's mental and physical existence. Those five elements are referred to by this Sanskrit term that means "aggregate" or "heap."

[B30] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This tradition was spurred by the translations of Hunayn ibn 'Ishaq. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: falsafa):
    Name this general Arabic term for the work of al-Farabi, Avicenna, and Averroes, which was contrasted with the theology of kalam. In the Islamic world, this tradition was effectively ended by the work of al-Ghazali.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]):
    To accompany his devastating critique of falsafa, al-Ghazali was one of the first Islamic theologians to bring this tradition into the mainstream. Orders of this mystical part of Islam include the "whirling dervishes."
  Part 3 (ans: the 12th century [or 1100s]):
    Translations of works in the Arabic falsafa tradition were a major part of the European "renaissance of" this century. In this century, scholasticism was founded by figures like Peter Abelard and Saint Anselm.

[B31] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Leadin: Answer the following about Islam in Africa, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: marabouts [or marbut; or murabit; prompt on murshid]):
    The tombs of these wandering African Islamic teachers, from an Arabic word root meaning "garrison," often serve as pilgrimage sites. A "Grand" one leads the Mouride brotherhood, which about 40% of Senegal belongs to.
  Part 2 (ans: Sufi Islam [or Sufism]):
    Some marabouts are also murshid, a type of spiritual guide in this mystical sect of Islam. Idris I descended from the founder of its Senussi order, and it also includes the Turkish Mevlevi.
  Part 3 (ans: Fulani people [or Fulbe; or Peul; prompt on Hausa-Fulani; do NOT accept or prompt on "Hausa"] [Nana Asma'u was the daughter of Usman dan Fodio.]):
    A female scholar of this ethnicity, Nana Asma'u, compiled teachings on the sunnah in early 19th century West Africa as her father took this ethnic group on jihad. They follow a moral code called pulaaku.

[B32] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: The first celebration of this holiday was held in 1207 near Mosul, and organized by Muzafar ad-Din Gokburi, brother-in-law to Saladin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mawlid an-Nabi [or Eid al-Mawlid an-Nabawi; or Eid Milad-un-Nabi; or Eid-e-Meeladun Nabi; or el Muled en-Nabawi; or Gamou; or Mawlud; or Mawlid an-Nabi; or Milad an-Nabi; or Maulidur-Rasul; or Maulid Nabi; or Maulud Nabi; or Maulidi; or Mawlud-e Sharif; or Mawlid en-Nabaoui Echarif; or Mevlid-i Serif; or Mevlud; or Mevlid; or Mevlydi; or Milad-e Payambar-e Akram; or Mulud; or Mahanabi Jayanti; or Yawm an-Nabi; if anyone proclaims a new Muslim country and calls it something different, yell at them for me]):
    Identify this carnival-esque holiday observed on either the 12th or 17th of Rabi al-Awwal, commemorating the birth of Muhammad.
  Part 2 (ans: bid'ah [or innovation; accept synonyms, such as novelty or new; accept word forms of those words]):
    Ahmadiyya and Wahhabi communities do not practice Mawlid, because they consider it this sort of practice. Wahhabism itself was formed as a reaction against practices with this quality, for which you can give either the Arabic term or the equivalent English innuendo.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism [or tasawwuf]):
    Mawlid celebration was popularized by this mystical movement in Islam, which emphasizes a personal relationship with Allah. The Mevlevi order of this movement practices whirling.

[B33] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Leadin: This branch places special emphasis on fitra, or intuitive recognition of God and virtue, and they try to activate the six latifa as part of their spiritual development. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism):
    Name this mystical branch of Islam whose turuq, or schools, include the Mevlevi Order, whose sama ceremony involves whirling. Al-Ghazali defended it in The Revival of Religious Sciences.
  Part 2 (ans: Ibn Arabi [or Abu 'Abd Allah Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Muhammad ibn al-Arabi al-Hatimi at-Ta'i]):
    This early 13th century author of The Meccan Openings and The Ringstones of the Wisdoms was called the "Great Master" of Sufism. In discussing the role of imagination, he used the concept of barzakh to describe how things simultaneously unite and divide.
  Part 3 (ans: Abu Bakr [or Abdullah ibn Abi Qhuhafa]):
    Unlike other Sufi turuq, the Naqshbandi school traces its teachings back through this first Caliph, a father-in-law of Muhammad.

[B34] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: A "Sama" is a ritualized form of dhikr practiced among members of this branch, whose orders include the Mevlevi and Bektashi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism):
    Identify this mystical branch of Islam, some of whose followers practice a type of meditation which involves whirling around in a circle.
  Part 2 (ans: tomb [or grave; accept reasonable equivalents]):
    A popular Sufi practice is to visit these locations belonging to their favorite Sufi guru. The one belonging to Muhammad has a green dome above it.
  Part 3 (ans: shirk):
    Salafis and others often accuse Sufis of this practice, which roughly translates as "polytheism". More precisely, this is the sin of worshipping or ascribing godlike attributes to idols, and is the only unforgivable crime in Islam.

[B35] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: In South Asia, members of this denomination perform musical poetry called qawwali. And six suprasensory organs called the lataif-e-sitta are distinguished by this sect. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or tasawwuf]):
    Name this Muslim denomination whose turuq include the Bektashi and Mevlevi orders., and which emphasizes mystical practices like the whirling performed by dervishes.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of Morocco [or Al-Mamlakah al-Magribiyah]):
    The Darqawa order led a revival of ascetic Sufism in this country, which Clifford Geertz contrasted with Indonesia in Islam Observed. Fatima al-Fihri founded the madrasa al-Karaouine in this country in 859.
  Part 3 (ans: marabouts [accept pious ones]):
    Many Muslims in the Maghreb undertake pilgrimages to the tombs of these Sufi leaders, who originally lived in monastic fortresses called ribats. These possess high levels of baraka and effectively serve as saints.

[B36] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The outlined doctrine of the path towards God is called tariqat in this religious sect, which is the subject of the Masnavi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism [or Tasawwuf; prompt on "Islamic mysticism" or similar answers]):
    Name this mystical sect of Islam that stresses motivation through love of God. Its adherents include the poet Rumi and many whirling dervishes.
  Part 2 (ans: Yazidism [or Yazidi; or Eziditi]):
    This religion practiced by some Kurds in Northern Iraq, combines elements of Sufi and Zoroastrian doctrine. This group believes in seven guardians of the world called heft sirr, led by the "Peacock Angel" Melek Taus.
  Part 3 (ans: Book of Revelation [or Kiteba Cilwe; or Kitab al-Jilwah; accept Apocalypse of John or Apokalypsis]):
    A Yazidi holy text of this name is revered alongside the Black Book. A Christian text with this English name begins with seven letters to the Asian churches and includes a vision of 144,000 Hebrews.

[B37] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some things related to Kurdish religions.
  Part 1 (ans: Sunni Islam [accept Sunnites]):
    Although many Kurds follow Yazidism, the majority follow this branch of Islam, which believes that the Rightly Guided Caliphs were the correct successors of Muhammad.
  Part 2 (ans: Shafi'i):
    Because Kurds follow this school of jurisprudence, they disagree with Sunnis that follow the Hanafi School of jurisprudence. This conservative third school considers the Sunnah of Muhammad, but not that of his successors.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism [accept tasawwuf]):
    Many Kurds follow this Islamic tradition as part of a tariqa network. Followers of this tradition are particularly devoted to dhikr, or reciting the names of God, but more famously, some of its dervishes practice whirling.

[B38] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Al-Muhasibi and his disciple Junayd are early figures in this tradition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sufism):
    Give this term for for the various ascetic and mystical movements in Islam that includes the dervishes. ?
  Part 2 (ans: Fakir):
    Some Sufis are referred to by this term, which was originally used to describe mendicant dervishes. Orders of this group in Sufism include the Christhiyah and Qadiriyah.
  Part 3 (ans: al-Ghazali):
    This Muslim theologian's The Revival of the Religious Sciences made Sufism acceptable in Orthodox Islam. He is also the author of The Incoherence of the Philosophers.

[B39] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Sunni scholars declared this method's "gates were closed" during the Abbasid dynasty, though some Shi'ites still claim to have the authority to perform this. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ijtihad):
    Name this method of Islamic jurisprudence which considers cases not explicitly covered by the Koran, Hadith, or consensus. It can include analogical reasoning, quiyas, or more subjective personal judgment, ra'y.
  Part 2 (ans: Abu Hamid Muhammed al-Ghazali):
    This man attacked ijtihad, particularly as used by Avicenna. He believed overconfidence in personal judgments were responsible for the errors he listed in his The Incoherence of the Philosophers.
  Part 3 (ans: Sufism):
    In The Revival of Religious Sciences, al-Ghazali defends this mystical Islamic tradition of which he was a part as being directly inspired by the Koran. You might know it for the whirling of its dervishes
