=== STOCK CLUES: John Osborne ===
Tossup questions: 0 found, 0 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: David Sylvester named a cultural movement for these objects in reference to John Bratby's depressing painting of one. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: kitchen sinks [or kitchen sink dramas; prompt on kitchens]):
    Name these objects, which describe a genre of gritty working-class drama exemplified by Shelagh (SHEE-la) Delaney's play A Taste of Honey.
  Part 2 (ans: Look Back in Anger [by John Osborne]):
    A woman burns her arm on an iron in this pioneering kitchen sink drama, which depicts the effects of class pressures on Alison and Jimmy Porter.
  Part 3 (ans: Jo [or Josephine]):
    In A Taste of Honey, a character with this first name worries about future economic pressures after getting pregnant. A member of the March family with this first name, the sister of Meg, Beth, and Amy, becomes a writer in Little Women.

[B2] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play jumps up and down and shouts "oooooh!" while making "paw gestures," prompting another character to ask her, "What makes you think you're happy?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Look Back in Anger (by John Osborne)):
    Name this play by the author of The Entertainer. This 1956 play focuses on the working-class Jimmy Porter and his middle-class wife Alison, who play "bears and squirrels" upon reuniting.
  Part 2 (ans: A Doll's House [or A Doll House; or Et dukkehjem]):
    Nora is belittlingly called a "little squirrel" by her husband Torvald, whom she later leaves by symbolically slamming the door in this Henrik Ibsen play.
  Part 3 (ans: Pnin ("puh-NEEN") (by Vladimir Nabokov)):
    Squirrels frequently appear as portents of misfortune for the title character of this novel. This novel's protagonist recalls the death at Buchenwald of his former lover Mira Belochkin, whose last name means "squirrel."

[B3] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the United Kingdom, until 1968, the Lord Chamberlain of the Royal Household retained the legal authority to ban plays from public performance. Answer some questions about that, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Osborne):
    In an especially egregious use of the censorship power, the Lord Chamberlain banned A Patriot for Me, a 1965 play about Alfred Redl by this author of Look Back in Anger.
  Part 2 (ans: Saved):
    Public support for the abolition of theater censorship rose after the Lord Chamberlain prosecuted theater clubs for staging this Edward Bond play. In a notorious scene from this play, a baby is stoned in its pram.
  Part 3 (ans: Joe Orton):
    This author's dark comedy Loot, also censored by the Lord Chamberlain, was so scandalous that it wasn't performed in its original form until 2017. This playwright had a long relationship with Kenneth Halliwell.

[B4] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man based his A Patriot For Me on the story of Alfred Reidl, and he also wrote about the Protestant Reformation in his Luther. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Osborne):
    Name this playwright, who also created an English-language version of Lope de Vega's A Bond Honored and adapted Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Grey for the stage.
  Part 2 (ans: Look Back In Anger ):
    This 1956 play by John Osborne is about the terrible marriage of Jimmy Porter and his wife Allison.
  Part 3 (ans: The Entertainer):
    Laurence Olivier suggestedthe plot of this Osborne play, which ends with Archie Rice walking off of the stagewith music continuing to play in the background.

[B5] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One unseen character in this play is Webster, who reminds the protagonist of his old love interest Madeline. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Look Back in Anger):
    Name this play that sees Jimmy Porter have a falling out with his wife Alison, who loses her baby.
  Part 2 (ans: John Osborne):
    Look Back in Anger is a play by this English playwright and member of the Angry Young Men who created the self-hating William Maitland in Inadmissable Evidence.
  Part 3 (ans: Joe Orton):
    This contemporary of Osborne and purveyor of black comedy wrote such plays as Entertaining Mr. Sloan and What the Butler Saw before having his brains beaten in with a hammer by his homosexual lover Kenneth Halliwell.

[B6] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's main character sings numbers such as "Thank God I'm normal" and "Why should I care?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Entertainer):
    Name this play about the music hall performer Archie Rice, who learns that his son Mick has been taken as a prisoner of war. It was written at the request of Laurence Olivier, who premiered its title role.
  Part 2 (ans: John Osborne):
    This British dramatist, a member of the Angry Young Men, wrote The Entertainer. He created a sensation with his "kitchen sink drama" about Jimmy Porter, Look Back in Anger.
  Part 3 (ans: Kenneth Tynan):
    This English theatre critic wrote a glowing review of Look Back in Anger, contrasting it with the staid country-house dramas he dismissed as "Loamshire" plays. He was the first person to say "fuck" on British television, and created a scandal by featuring plenty of full-frontal nudity in his avant-garde revue Oh! Calcutta!
