=== STOCK CLUES: Robert Smithson ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2012 Penn Bowl (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Smithson
  - Circuit diagrams surround the nude central figure in his work St. [PWR]
  - John in the Desert. [PWR]
  - Lemuria and Cathaysia are two of his Hypothetical Continents, while he placed the title objects "Vertical on Rocky Bank" and on a "grassy slope" in his Mirror Displacement series. [PWR]
  - Cold weather prevented the creation of a 'mud pour' work, leading him to design a substitute which illustrated entropy. [PWR]
  - He died while preparing for his work (*)Amarillo Ramp and Kent State was the setting of his now demolished Partially Buried Woodshed. [PWR]
  - His admiration for natural disintegration left it unclear whether his most famous work should be preserved from environmental damage.
  - For 10 points, name this pioneer of land art who created a coiled structure jutting from the shore of the Great Salt Lake known as Spiral Jetty. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist cut up the facade of a condemned house in Niagara Falls's Love Canal neighborhood before moving the rest to its Artpark in the work Bingo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gordon Matta-Clark):
    Name this artist who filmed himself cutting a New Jersey house in half in the work Splitting. This "anarchitect" cut a cone-shaped hole through two Parisian townhouses in the work Conical Intersect.
  Part 2 (ans: Centre Pompidou [or Pompidou Center; or Centre Georges Pompidou]):
    For Conical Intersect, Matta-Clark cut two townhouses that were to be demolished to make room for this art museum. The exterior of this Parisian modern art museum is lined with color-coded pipes.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Smithson):
    Matta-Clark's theory of "anarchitecture" was influenced by this artist's theories of entropy. This land artist, whom Matta-Clark met at Cornell's "Earth Art" exhibition, created Partially Buried Woodshed at Kent State.

[B2] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about multidisciplinary American artist Bruce Nauman, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fountain [accept Self-Portrait as a Fountain]):
    Nauman spits a stream of water with hands aloft in a piece called Self-Portrait as this type of object. This type of object titles a Marcel Duchamp piece comprising a urinal signed "R. Mutt."
  Part 2 (ans: Marina Abramovic ("ah-BRAH-moh-vich")):
    As part of the series Seven Easy Pieces, this artist recreated a Nauman work in which the artist's body presses against a wall. Onlookers applauded former collaborator Ulay surprising this artist during a silent 2010 piece.
  Part 3 (ans: spiral [accept Spiral Jetty (by Robert Smithson); accept coil, swirl, or helix]):
    A Nauman neon sign arranges the slogan "The true artist helps the world by revealing mystic truths" in this form. The artist of a work titled for this configuration remarked "et in Utah ego" upon viewing it.

[B3] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist created the Floating Island to Travel Around Manhattan Island, a tree-covered barge which was tugged around by a boat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Smithson):
    Name this artist who made Broken Circle at Emmen, Holland as well as an earthwork at Rozel Point on the Great Salt Lake called Spiral Jetty.
  Part 2 (ans: Kent State University):
    Until its demolition, Smithson's Partially Buried Woodshed was located at this university. A Pulitzer Prize-winning photo of Mary Ann Vecchio kneeling and screaming over the body of Jeffrey Miller was taken here.
  Part 3 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    Smithson's article about the "Dialectical Landscape" centers on this man, whose Greensward Plan Smithson revered. With Calvert Vaux, this man designed Central Park.

[B4] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist died in a plane crash in Texas. while surveying sites for his planned work Amarillo Ramp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Smithson [or Robert Irving Smithson]):
    Identify this pioneer of "land art" or "earthworks", whose most famous work, a 1500-foot-long construction in the Great Salt Lake, is his Spiral Jetty.
  Part 2 (ans: Constantin Brancusi ["bran-koosh", but accept literal English readings]):
    One hypothesized inspiration for Spiral Jetty is a spiral-shaped "portrait" of James Joyce by this Romanian sculptor of Endless Column and Bird in Space.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Beuys):
    Smithson's other influences include this felt-obsessed German performance artist, who hung out with a coyote in I Like America and America Likes Me and locked himself in the Galerie Schmela for How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare.

[B5] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work is managed by the Dia Foundation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Spiral Jetty):
    Name this artwork that juts into Great Salt Lake at Rozel Point.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Smithson):
    This artist, who envisioned a tugboat pulling some shrubbery around Manhattan in his unrealized Floating Island, created Spiral Jetty and numerous other earthworks.
  Part 3 (ans: Walter De Maria):
    This other dirt enthusiast covered a gallery a yard deep in soil in his New York Earth Room. He's most famous for an enormous grid of metal sticks in New Mexico, The Lightning Field.
