=== STOCK CLUES: Gustave Moreau ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 14 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: depictions of Salome by Gustave Moreau [prompt on partial descriptions]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - One of these paintings prominently features a statue of Diana of Ephesus, which towers above a figure seated in the background. [PWR]
  - That painting also features a black panther in the foreground, while another of these paintings seats the black panther at the central figure's feet. [PWR]
  - Outlines in white and black were added to one of these paintings to depict a (*) tattooed version of its subject. [PWR]
  - In all of these paintings, the central figure stretches her left arm, pointing towards the right side of the canvas.
  - Floating heads in some of these paintings were supposedly inspired by ukiyo-e prints copied by its artist.
  - For 10 points, name these paintings centered around the daughter of Herod by a French Symbolist, which includes The Apparition. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gustave Moreau
  - A polyptych by this artist contains a three-by-three grid of panels whose rows depict the Golden, Silver, and Iron Ages, with each age represented by Adam, Hesiod and Orpheus, and Cain, respectively. [PWR]
  - Like most of his best-known works, his The Life of Humanity is located in his house-museum in Paris.
  - An unfinished work by this artist was inspired by Carpaccio's Ten Thousand Martyrs of Ararat. [PWR]
  - This artist of The Chimeras painted a woman wearing a revealing dress made up almost entirely of jewels, who raises her arm toward a floating, haloed head with blood pouring from its neck.
  - This friend of Theodore (*) Chasseriau placed a Greek god at the top of a massive throne garlanded with flowers in a work in which a woman with an open wound in her thigh recoils at the glory of her divine lover.
  - This artist also painted a mythical beast climbing up a Theban man's body.
  - For 10 points, name this French Symbolist artist of L'Apparition, Jupiter and Semele, and Oedipus and the Sphinx. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist names an art movement in Utrecht that influenced paintings like The Matchmaker. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio; accept Caravaggisti or Caravaggista, or Caravaggesques; accept Utrecht Caravaggism; reject "Michelangelo"]):
    Name this artist whose style inspired Dirck van Baburen and Gerrit van Honthorst. This artist included a fruit basket falling off a table in his painting Supper at Emmaus.
  Part 2 (ans: chiaroscuro [accept tenebrism or tenebroso]):
    The Utrecht Caravaggisti were especially inspired by the use of this technique to create drama in paintings like The Calling of Saint Matthew. This technique uses strong contrasts between light and dark.
  Part 3 (ans: John [or St. John or St. John the Baptist; accept The Beheading of Saint John the Baptist] (The Apparition is by Gustave Moreau.)):
    Caravaggio's only signature appears below a pool of blood in a painting that depicts this man's death. This man appears and scares a court in the Symbolist painting The Apparition.

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two blue columns and a large rock inscribed with hieroglyphics appear in the background as this figure "caresses" an androgynous figure in a painting by Fernand Khnopff. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Sphinx [accept Oedipus and the Sphinx; accept the Caress of the Sphinx]):
    Name this figure, who appears above a pile of human remains as a nude man leans into a cave in a painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres (ANG-ruh).
  Part 2 (ans: Gustave Moreau):
    In a painting influenced by Ingres, this artist depicted a winged Sphinx clinging to the chest of Oedipus in a chasm. Salome approaches John the Baptist's floating head in this Symbolist's painter The Apparation.
  Part 3 (ans: St. George [accept St. George and the Dragon]):
    Moreau obsessively copied a gorey Vittore Carpaccio painting of this figure and used him as the facial model for Oedipus. "Christ in Triumph" paintings evolved into depictions of this saint slaying a dragon on horseback.

[B3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It's not glass, but works in this medium were tightly-decorated with hundreds of types of flowers on a green background known as millefleur ("meel-flurr"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tapestries [or embroidery; prompt on cloth or fabric] (The work is the Bayeux Tapestry.)):
    Name this medium that was used to create The Lady and the Unicorn and The Hunt of the Unicorn. The phrase "and the English left fleeing" was likely added in 1814 to another work in this medium.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustave Moreau (The first painting is Les Licornes. The second painting is The Apparition.)):
    The rediscovery of The Lady and the Unicorn in the 1800s inspired this artist's painting depicting three unicorns surrounded by princesses. John the Baptist's floating head illuminates Herod's hall in one of this artist's other paintings.
  Part 3 (ans: the Annunciation):
    Along with a hunter blowing a horn, unicorns were used to allegorize this Biblical scene. Fra Angelico's version of this scene shows the angel Gabriel visiting the Virgin Mary in a portico.

[B4] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The missing nose of a statue of this creature is wrongly attributed to Napoleon's cannons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sphinx [accept Great Sphinx of Giza]):
    A statue built during the reign of the pharaoh Khafre depicts what kind of creature in limestone?
  Part 2 (ans: Gustave Moreau):
    This French Symbolist created many depictions of winged sphinxes, including one that is hanging onto Oedipus by her claws. In another of this artist's paintings, a pale Semele is draped across the thigh of Jupiter.
  Part 3 (ans: Mannerism (The painting is Madonna with a Long Neck.)):
    French artists in this style, many of whom worked at the Palace of Fontainebleau ("fon-ten-BLOW") in the 16th century, sculpted many statues of sphinxes. A large Greek column appears at the back of a painting in this style in which a mis-proportioned woman gazes down at her gaunt, elongated child.

[B5] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a painting by this artist, a heavily-garlanded Pan sprawls in front of an eagle, flanked by a female personification of Death, who holds a bloody sword, and one of Pain, who wears a crown of thorns. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustave Moreau):
    Name this French artist renowned for his colorful erotic paintings of Biblical and mythological scenes, such as Jupiter and Semele and Oedipus and the Sphinx.
  Part 2 (ans: Symbolism [or word forms, such as Symbolist]):
    Gustave Moreau, Pierre Puvis de Chavannes (pyoo-VEED shah-VAHN), and Odilon Redon belonged to this art movement preoccupied with fantastical, imaginative, and sensuous images. It coexisted with a similarly-focused literary movement led by Verlaine (vair-LEN) and Rimbaud (ram-BOH).
  Part 3 (ans: John the Baptist [or John the Baptizer; or Ioannes; or Johannes; prompt on John]):
    In The Apparition, Moreau painted the Biblical Salome pointing to the floating, haloed, and decapitated head of this saint.

[B6] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A foot and a hand jut out from the rocks at the bottom of this painting, next to a crown and some bones. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustave Moreau's Oedipus and the Sphinx):
    Name this 1864 painting whose two title characters stare at each other as one of them hangs off the other's chest.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres):
    Gustave Moreau's Oedipus and the Sphinx was likely influenced by this painter's version of the same scene. He painted an odalisque with too many vertebrae and The Apotheosis of Homer.
  Part 3 (ans: Jupiter [do not accept or prompt on: "Zeus"]):
    In a very detailed painting by Gustave Moreau, this god has red rays emanating from his head. A woman strokes this god's beard in an Ingres painting.

[B7] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of the title figures in this painting holds a red spear point-down, while the other figure is perched vertically on his chest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Oedipus and the Sphinx ):
    Identify this painting, whose second title figure was also depicted by the same painter sitting on a cliff underneath which the bodies of its victims were strewn.
  Part 2 (ans: Gustave Moreau ):
    Oedipus and the Sphinx is one of the most famous paintings of this Symbolist painter, who depicted a woman holding the head and lyre of the title bard in his Orpheus.
  Part 3 (ans: Jupiter and Semele):
    This other painting by Moreau is a smorgasboard of activity: the title deity sits on a massive gold throne and has a red halo in the center of this painting, while his lover, struck dead, is draped over his right arm.

[B8] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The protagonist of Joris-Karl Huysmans's A rebours collects many of this artist's paintings, and one of his paintings shows death in the form of a ghostly woman floating along a diagonal axis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gustave Moreau):
    Name this French artist of many mythological paintings who dedicated the aforementioned work, titled Young Man and Death, to his mentor Theodore Chesseriau.
  Part 2 (ans: Arnold Bocklin [the painting is [The Isle of the Dead]):
    Another symbolist painter was this Swiss, whose most famous painting shows a boat holding a man clad in all white and a coffin getting rowed through a gate toward a forest of cypress trees.
  Part 3 (ans: Edvard Munch):
    This third symbolist depicted a set of young couples dancing by the moonlight in his The Dance of Life. He also painted Death in the Sickroom and a work in which a dude on a bridge screams.
