=== STOCK CLUES: Reagan ===
Tossup questions: 15 found, 83 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 24 found, 72 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan] (The 1986 Firearms Owners' Protection Act paradoxically included Hughes's amendment.)
  - This politician's handwritten note to Representative Scott Klug flipped Klug's vote and secured a narrow passage of a bill that was later terminated by a 10-year sunset provision.
  - This politician signed into law a bill that paradoxically included William Hughes's amendment to prevent civilian sales of machine guns. [PWR]
  - This politician was the first presidential candidate to earn an NRA endorsement. [PWR]
  - This politician cracked down on (*) "copwatching" by signing into law the Mulford Act, which became national news when armed Black Panthers occupied the State Capitol.
  - This president's press secretary is the namesake of a 1993 bill that mandated federal background checks on firearm purchases; that bill is the Brady Law.
  - For 10 points, name this president who survived an assassination attempt months after his inauguration in 1981. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Planes, Trains, and Automobiles (2023) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Answer: Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport [accept either underlined portion; accept KDCA; prompt on just Washington Airport]
  - A local newspaper described part of this airport as a "cursed portal to the rest of America" and declared it "gone but not forgiven" after the 2021 closure of this airport's infamously awful Gate 35X. [PWR]
  - In 2015, that newspaper's most popular online poll ever found that people's names for this airport were strongly correlated with their political affiliation.
  - Between 2001 and 2005, flights arriving or departing from this airport would be diverted under (*) military escort if a passenger stood up within 30 minutes of takeoff or landing. [PWR]
  - Flights using this airport's "River Visual" approach give passengers on the left side of the plane excellent views of landmarks like the Washington Monument.
  - For 10 points, name this airport which lies across the Potomac River from the nation's capital. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]
  - The Organization of People in Arms claimed this political leader was using the Homestead Base to provide "modifications" to existing equipment. [PWR]
  - A day after this leader endorsed Efrain Rios Montt as a "man of great integrity" who had a "bum rap," a massacre occurred in the Ixil village of Dos Erres.
  - This leader circumvented a ban on military aid to the Lucas Garcia regime, which included aircraft used in the "Silent Holocaust." Mehdi Hashemi leaked to the media that this leader breached the (*) Boland Amendment, though this leader claimed that "mistakes were made" after his administration was implicated in trading "arms for hostages." For 10 points, name this president and arms dealer whose staff member Oliver North was implicated in the Iran-Contra affair. [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Ronald Wilson Reagan
  - Under this politician, the Commission on Civil Rights was chaired by Clarence Pendleton, who claimed that comparable worth was "the looniest idea since Looney Tunes." This politician claimed to believe in states' rights in a speech given at the Neshoba County Fair, near where three members of CORE had been murdered in 1964. [PWR]
  - During a political campaign, this man repeatedly alluded to a perpetrator of fraud named Linda Taylor. [PWR]
  - This politician received backlash for the lack of punitive measures in his policy of (*) "constructive engagement" with South Africa. [PWR]
  - Ted Kennedy claimed that "blacks would sit at segregated lunch counters" after this president nominated Robert Bork to the Supreme Court.
  - For 10 points, name this two-term president, who [emphasize] escalated the War on Drugs against Black communities. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ronald Reagan administration [accept Reagan's children; accept any answer which indicates the U.S. government during Ronald Reagan's presidency; prompt on U.S. government or Republican administration by asking "led by who?"]
  - In a 2018 update of one play, a frequent critic of this government debates a character with a similar name beginning with "X," who stands in for the author and suggests rewriting the plot. [PWR]
  - This government is said to have restored its country's "sacred position among nations" in another play, in which a character describes its metaphorical "children" as "Selfish and greedy and loveless and blind." The young woman Zillah repeatedly insists that this government has become increasingly Hitler-like in the play A (*) Bright Room Called Day. [PWR]
  - Due to anxiety about her husband accepting a job in this government, a woman in another play becomes addicted to Valium, eventually leading her to hallucinate that she is in Antarctica.
  - In that play, the name of this government's leader is used to describe the "macho asshole lawyer" Joe Pitt, who proudly says he voted for it twice despite being gay.
  - For 10 points, Angels in America is set during what presidential administration? [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: U. S. Presidential debates [accept more specific answers like debates between Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter or John F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon before mention; prompt on debates with "between who?"]
  - George Will was among the people accused of stealing secret papers prior to one of these events; that scandal was unearthed by Laurence Barrett in Gambling with History. [PWR]
  - Howard K. [PWR]
  - Smith and Frank McGee were among the journalists involved in the first of these events sponsored by an industry's "Big Three." The Taiwanese islands Quemoy and Matsu were the subject of the third in an inaugural series of these events. [PWR]
  - St. [PWR]
  - Anselm College has been a recurring site for these events, which were hosted in the 1970s and 80s by the (*) League of Women Voters. [PWR]
  - A refusal to wear pancake makeup is often cited to explain one person's flop in the first televised one of these events.
  - For 10 points, name these events, which include the first televised one featuring John F. [GIVE]
  - Kennedy and Richard Nixon.

[T7] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]
  - This leader controversially placed a wreath in a cemetery honoring SS members in Bitburg.
  - In a presidential campaign, this man declared "I believe in states' rights." After the Symbionese Liberation Army demanded the distribution of food following the kidnapping of Patty Hearst, this man joked about a botulism outbreak contaminating the food.
  - This leader blasted the Soviet Union after the shooting down of Korean Airlines Flight 007.
  - This president authorized the overthrow of Hudson Austin in Operation Urgent Fury, the invasion of Grenada.
  - This president's Secretary of State declared "I am in control here" after a failed assassination attempt on his life by John Hinckley.
  - This president's reputation was boosted after he ended the Iran Hostage Crisis.
  - For 10 points, name this president throughout most of the 1980s. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 XENOPHON (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ronald Reagan
  - In a New York Times article, Paul Krugman attributed the usage of the phrase "state's rights" in one of this man's speeches to this man's "tacit race-baiting in the historical record." One of this man's speeches asks the questions "Should Moses have told the children of Israel to live in slavery?" and "Should Christ have refused the cross?" in order to explain its subject's concept of (+) "peace through strength".
  - In this man's first inaugural address, which was written by Ken Khachigian, he controversially stated that "government is not the solution to our problems; government is the problem." It is not (*) George H.W.
  - Bush, but Peggy Noonan wrote a speech for this man which memorializes the death of seven astronauts by stating how they "slipped the surly bonds of Earth" "to touch the face of God." For 10 points, name this man, whose speaking prowess led him to be dubbed the "Great Communicator". [GIVE]

[T9] 2017 Jakob (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Ronald Wilson Reagan (Editor's note: add 5 points if the player says all 3 names and then "6 6 6". This is very important to me.)
  - While working in this man's administration, Richard Pipes remarked that he was "the first Pole in a thousand years in a position to really stick it to the Russians". [PWR]
  - A major diplomatic blow for this man occurred when Eugene Hasenfus' plane was shot down. [PWR]
  - This man (*) gave military support to a regime responsible for the El Mozote Massacre, and one scandal during this man's administration was conducted under the auspices of Manouchehr Ghorbanifar and Mehdi Hashemi.
  - This man condescendingly repeated the line "There you go again" during a debate, and he broke a nationwide Air Traffic Controller's Strike.
  - For ten points, name this American President whose Secretary of State, Al Haig, once sparked rumors of a coup by saying "I am in control here". [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev [accept in either order]
  - Prior to a meeting between these two people, protesters held a Freedom Sunday for Jewish rights. [PWR]
  - The Line X operation inherited by one of them was crippled by the other thanks to the Farewell Dossier. [PWR]
  - Suzanne Massie suggested that one of these people use the phrase "trust, but verify" with the other. [PWR]
  - Meetings between these leaders prompted the adoption of the Sinatra Doctrine. [PWR]
  - Negotiations between these people stalled at the Reykjavik Summit, where one demanded that the other confine work on the (*) Brilliant Pebbles system to the laboratory. [PWR]
  - These signers of the INF treaty clashed over the SDI program.
  - In a speech at Brandenburg Gate, one of these leaders told the other "If you seek liberalization... tear down this wall!" For 10 points, name these frequent negotiators, an American President and the final General Secretary of the USSR. [GIVE]

[T11] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ronald Reagan
  - This politician joked about food for the poor being botulism ridden in order to mock domestic terrorists.
  - This man told Neshoba County Fair that the "answer to any problem lies with the people" because he believed in "states rights." He claimed that SS members were also victims of the Nazis during a trip to the Bitburg Military Cemetery.
  - This politician's campaign advertisements included one about a "bear in the woods" and another one proclaiming it was "morning again in America." While at the Brandenburg Gate, this man infamously called for an action to advance freedom in Eastern Europe.
  - For 10 points, name this President who called the Soviet Union an "evil empire" and told Mikhail Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin Wall. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Ronald Wilson Reagan
  - In one speech, this man said he hated it when politicians like Joseph S. [PWR]
  - Clark, Jr. call "you and me, the free men and women of this country, as 'the masses.'" This politician signed the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act which made it much harder to commit mentally insane people. [PWR]
  - He won a second term as governor by defeating "Big Daddy" Unruh. [PWR]
  - In his first year as governor, he signed the pre-Roe Therapeutic (*) Abortion Act into law. [PWR]
  - As governor, he put down the People's Park Protest on Bloody Thursday.
  - His political debut came with his "A Time for Choosing" speech in support of Barry Goldwater.
  - This governor dealt with Berkeley student protests and largely wiped out the budget deficit of his predecessor, Pat Brown.
  - For 10 points, name this California governor and movie star. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: "Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan"
  - The section headings in this short story form a sentence ending with the phrase "a unique ontology of violence and disaster" and mentioning Tallis's assassination fantasies.
  - This story was originally published as a pamphlet, and was later collected in a book, where it was followed by a story about the Kennedy assassination inspired by Alfred Jarry's "The Crucifixion Considered as an Uphill Bicycle Race." This story notes that people see faces as either circumcised or uncircumcised, and that its subject has a face which is perceived as a "penile erection." Other sections of this story deal with a "conceptual auto-disaster," describing studies in which people were asked to imagine this story's subject dying in a car crash.
  - For 10 points, name this short story from The Atrocity Exhibition by J. [GIVE]
  - G.
  - Ballard, written as a scientific paper about the sexual appeal of a former Republican president.

[T14] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Ronald Wilson Reagan
  - One member of this man's administration formulated this president's policy of "constructive engagement" towards South Africa; that man was Chester Crocker.
  - This President controversially met with Jonas Savimbi and pledged US support for UNITA.
  - During this man's administration, Fawn Hall was used as a witness during a trial held due to a Robert McFarlane-initiated plan that side-stepped the Boland Amendment.
  - That plan, supported by this President, initially sold arms to Iranians, but then provided money to forces that fought against the Daniel Ortega-led Sandinista government in Nicaragua.
  - For 10 points, the Iran-Contra affair occurred during what Republican president's second term? [GIVE]

[T15] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Ronald Reagan
  - This man's first speech as president concluded with a story about Martin Treptow, who died fighting in World War I.
  - On the advice of Chet Crocker, this president vetoed the Dellums Amendment, favoring his own more restrained policy of "constructive engagement." His public appearances were directed by Michael Deaver. [PWR]
  - After this president left office, his HUD Secretary, Samuel Pierce, was implicated in a low-income housing scandal. [PWR]
  - His Interior Secretary controversially banned a Grass Roots concert on the Mall and was (*) named James Watt. [PWR]
  - He signed the Kemp-Roth tax cut into law, and enacted his economic policy w help of his Director of the OMB, David Stockman.
  - His administration saw the first deployment of Peacekeeper missiles, the Gulf of Sidra incident, the beginning of the Savings and Loan crisis.
  - FTP, name this president who proposed the Strategic Defense Initiative, a Republican tarnished by the Iran-Contra scandal.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This diplomat named a doctrine based on her essay "Dictatorships and Double Standards" that justified US support of anti-communist dictatorships including in Guatemala and the Philippines. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jeane Kirkpatrick [or Jeane Duane Kirkpatrick]):
    Name this neoconservative politician who became the US's first woman Ambassador to the United Nations.
  Part 2 (ans: Falklands War [or Guerra de Malvinas]):
    Kirkpatrick clashed over supporting a military dictatorship during this war with Secretary of State Alexander Haig, who tried to mediate this conflict. Herbert "H" Jones died at this war's Battle of Goose Green.
  Part 3 (ans: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]):
    Kirkpatrick served as foreign policy advisor to this president in his 1980 campaign. This president advocated for economic deregulation through a namesake neoliberal economic platform.

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This program may have been inspired by a speech given by Edward Teller. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Strategic Defense Initiative [or SDI; accept Star Wars]):
    Name this controversial proposed missile defense program that employed many novel technologies, including lasers and particle beams.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    The Strategic Defense Initiative was announced by this president. Other notable Cold War events during his presidency include the Iran-Contra affair and his speech calling for Mikhail Gorbachev to tear down the Berlin Wall.
  Part 3 (ans: George Shultz):
    This successor of Alexander Haig served as Secretary of State during the Strategic Defense Initiative controversy and helped broker the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. He also helped broker American relationships with Taiwan and presided over the aforementioned Iran-Contra affair.

[B3] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Workers in this profession were represented by the first union to be decertified by the Federal Labor Relations Authority. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: air traffic controllers):
    Give this profession. Robert E. Poli led a union of these workers who were fired en masse after a 48-hour warning.
  Part 2 (ans: Alan Greenspan):
    In a 2003 speech, this person credited the PATCO strike with increasing the "flexibility" of the "freedom to fire." A speech at Jackson Hole contributed to a feud between this man and his subordinate Alan Blinder.
  Part 3 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    This president fired the striking air traffic controllers. He defeated Jimmy Carter in the 1980 election.

[B4] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A 1999 book by Thomas Bodenheimer and Robert Gould titled for this policy distinguished between the idealist "global" and the realist "selective" forms of it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rollback [accept selective rollback or global rollback; accept Rollback!: Right-wing Power in U.S. Foreign Policy; prompt on regime change]):
    Name this policy that necessitated arming "freedom fighters" in communist countries according to Jeane Kirkpatrick. First enacted during the Korean War, this policy is more extreme than detente and containment.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan; accept Reagan Doctrine]):
    With Kirkpatrick as UN Ambassador, this president's foreign policy embraced rollback during Afghanistan's mujahideen insurgency. His Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger resigned amidst the Iran-Contra investigations.
  Part 3 (ans: Angola [or Republic of Angola or Republica de Angola or Repubilika ya Ngola]):
    The Reagan Doctrine also applied rollback policy in aiding the anti-communist UNITA party in this country. Analysts from the Heritage Foundation frequently visited this country to provide intelligence to Jonas Savimbi.

[B5] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This author warned against the increased influence of fundamentalist Christianity, oil, and debt on American politics in American Theocracy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kevin Phillips):
    Name this historian and former republican operative who worked for Richard Nixon's 1968 Presidential campaign. He argued for prioritization of southern states in The Emerging Republican Majority.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    Phillips's southern strategy was used by the GOP to elect this President in 1980 and 1984.
  Part 3 (ans: Pat Buchanan):
    This Nixon speechwriter called Phillips "a genius of sorts." He called the 1992 DNC the "greatest single exhibition of cross-dressing in American political history" during a speech describing a "culture war" in America.

[B6] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A member of this group went under the pseudonym of "Robert Rich." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hollywood Ten):
    Name this group of screenwriters, including Dalton Trumbo and Ring Lardner Jr., who were blacklisted after HUAC accused them of engaging in communist activity.
  Part 2 (ans: Red Scares):
    The Hollywood Ten were blacklisted during the second of these events, during which Cold War tensions heightened the fear of Soviet spying and sabotage against the United States. The first of these events took place following the end of World War I.
  Part 3 (ans: Ronald Wilson Reagan):
    In 1947, this man testified that he received literature supporting a "Committee for a Far-Eastern Democratic Policy" from the Screen Actors Guild. Under the codename "T-10," this man provided names of potential communist sympathizers to the FBI.

[B7] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This policy agenda included the creation of a so-called Department of Welfare. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fair Deal):
    Name this policy agenda advanced by Harry Truman. Truman was largely unsuccessful in achieving its goals, which included repealing the Taft-Hartley Act and establishing a universal health insurance program.
  Part 2 (ans: Medicare):
    Harry and Bess Truman were the first two individuals enrolled in this national health insurance program, which Clinton and Bush later expanded through its Parts C and D.
  Part 3 (ans: Ronald Reagan [accept Ronald Reagan Speaks Out Against Socialized Medicine]):
    During its anti-Medicare campaign Operation Coffee Cup, the American Medical Association held coffee meetings where they played an LP recorded by this celebrity in which he Speaks Out Against Socialized Medicine.

[B8] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the Watts riots and their impact on California politics. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pat Brown [prompt on just Brown]):
    This governor of California during the riots was on a trip to Europe as they were happening. He was defeated in the ensuing gubernatorial election of 1966 and his son Jerry currently serves as Governor.
  Part 2 (ans: Tom Bradley):
    After the riots, this African-American former policeman lost a Los Angeles mayoral election to the conservative Democrat Sam Yorty due to Yorty's race-baiting tactics. He would later lose a gubernatorial election to George Deukmejian despite leading in almost all major polls.
  Part 3 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    Brown's response to the Watts riots was perceived as weak, thus allowing this future president to win the governorship.

[B9] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This nation was invaded during Operation Urgent Fury. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: People's Revolutionary Government of Grenada (Or the People's Revolutionary Government, or the PRG)):
    Name this nation that was invaded by the United States and the Caribbean Peace Force.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Wilson Reagan (accept "The Gipper")):
    During its Invasion of Grenada, the United States was led by this mediocre actor-turned-president from 1981-1989. This president's administration famously used funds from arms sales to Iran to fund the Nicaraguan Contras.
  Part 3 (ans: Maurice Rupert Bishop):
    The invasion of Grenada was spurred by the execution of this Communist Prime Minister of Grenada. This leader of the New Jewel Movement was overthrown in a coup by Bernard Coard.

[B10] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: O. Nigel Bolland cited the rise of this island nation's first prime minister as an example of how small-island politics can be dominated by one man's personality. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Grenada [or La Grenade]):
    Name this island, whose first PM was overthrown by Maurice Bishop's New JEWEL movement. Bishop was himself the victim of a military coup by Hudson Austin that ostensibly threatened some medical students.
  Part 2 (ans: Eric Gairy (the 1970 Miss World was Grenadan and Gairy was on the judging panel, but that's as far as the evidence of rigging goes).):
    Grenada's first PM was this labor leader overthrown while addressing the UN in 1979. He maintained a private militia called the "Mongoose Gang" and was accused of rigging the 1970 Miss World competition.
  Part 3 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    This U.S. president ordered the invasion of Grenada in Operation Urgent Fury after Bishop's overthrow in 1983. He quipped that he "forgot to duck" after being shot by a guy trying to impress Jodie Foster.

[B11] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The so-called "wise use" movement, which sought to reduce government control of property, had its roots in this earlier movement. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sagebrush Rebellion):
    Name this movement to free up federally-held land in the American West. Its name comes from a type of vegetation ubiquitous to much of the federal land in question.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]):
    While campaigning in Salt Lake City, this future president declared himself a "sagebrush rebel." Many westerners who voted for this believer in states' rights believed that his opponent, incumbent president Jimmy Carter, had encroached on their territorial rights.
  Part 3 (ans: The Beach Boys):
    Reagan defused the Sagebrush Rebellion by appointing James Watt as Secretary of the Interior, in which role he banned this band and the The Grass Roots from performing at the National Mall in 1983, claiming they attracted "the wrong element." This band's style gave rise to the "California Sound."

[B12] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: To avoid creating a "peril to national safety," more than 11,000 members of this occupation were given orders under the terms of the Taft-Hartley Act, but only 1,300 obeyed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: air traffic controllers [prompt on less specific answers such as government employees; do not accept or prompt on "airline employees" or "airmen" as the controllers were not employed by the airlines themselves]):
    Name this occupation of thousands of PATCO members who were given a lifetime ban on civil service, which was lifted by Bill Clinton in 1993. Drew Lewis organized a contingency plan to replace them.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    This President broke the PATCO strike by firing most of the nation's air traffic controllers, despite receiving PATCO's support in the 1980 presidential election the year before.
  Part 3 (ans: TWA [or Trans World America]):
    PATCO formed in 1962 when the federal government began hiring more controllers, two years after a New York City collision between a United plane and a plane from this now-defunct airline acquired by American in 2001.

[B13] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This person once donned a baglady costume to sing the song "Second-Hand Clothes." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nancy Reagan [or Nancy Davis; or Anne Francis Robbins]):
    Name this woman who infamously consulted a personal astrologer named Joan Quigley. The joke "Honey, I forgot to duck" was said to this woman by her husband after he was shot and wounded.
  Part 2 (ans: "no"):
    As First Lady, Nancy Reagan coined an anti-drug slogan, urging children to "just say" what word to drug dealers? Critics argued that the phrase was too simplistic.
  Part 3 (ans: Donald "Don" Regan):
    This Chief of Staff for Reagan reportedly quarreled with the First Lady and embarrassingly revealed her use of an astrologer in his 1988 memoir. Before becoming Chief of Staff, he was Reagan's first Secretary of the Treasury.

[B14] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This book is formed from some "condensed novels", one of which depicts the suicide of Marilyn Monroe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Atrocity Exhibition):
    Name this book, whose 1990 edition included an appendix containing "The Secret History of World War III". It concerns a character named Talbot or Travis or Travers, and explores aspects of his schizophrenic mind under headings such as "The University of Death" and "Notes Toward a Mental Breakdown".
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    The Atrocity Exhibition by J. G. Ballard also contains a section in which the protagonist explains why he wants to fuck this man, whose salacious hairstyle apparently has led people to compare it to their own pubic hair.
  Part 3 (ans: Lee Harvey Oswald):
    In the final section of The Atrocity Exhibition, this man's act of murder is compared to a "Downhill Motorcycle Race". This assassin is also the subject of Don Delillo's novel Libra.

[B15] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This leader first rose to prominence as a producer of agitprop in Moldavia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Konstantin Ustinovich Chernenko):
    Name this chief of staff to Brezhnev who led the USSR through the retaliatory boycott of the 1984 Olympics. During his tenure, his poor health forced Gorbachev to stand in for him at Politburo meetings.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Wilson Reagan):
    Chernenko held power during the administration of this American president, who used the term "evil empire" to refer to the Soviet Union and called on Gorbachev to "tear down" the Berlin Wall.
  Part 3 (ans: Korean Airlines Flight 007 [or KAL 007, or KE 007; prompt partial answers such as Korean Air, KAL, KE, or 007]):
    Andropov led the USSR when the Soviet Air Force shot down this passenger airliner in 1983. Georgia Representative Larry Mcdonald died on this plane, which was shot down near Sakhalin Island.

[B16] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer some questions about political scandals in the 1980s, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gary Hart):
    This Senator from Colorado withdrew his campaign for the Democratic nomination shortly after photos were released of him and Donna Rice on a yacht named Monkey Business.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]):
    This man's Secretary of Defense, Caspar Weinberger, was indicted following the Iran-Contra scandal that occurred during his second term as President.
  Part 3 (ans: Abscam):
    This FBI sting operation ultimately convicted six Representatives and one Senator of political corruption, although the first politician to be caught was Camden mayor Angelo Errichetti.

[B17] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: One of the targets of this action claimed that it killed his adopted daughter Hanna, although this claim was never confirmed and seems to have been fabricated. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United States bombing of Libya [or:Libya air strikes]):
    Name this 1986 action which was also known as Operation El Dorado Canyon.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    This American president ordered the Libya air strikes. He told Mikhail Gorbachev to tear down a wall.
  Part 3 (ans: Berlin):
    The bombing of Libya was ordered in retaliation for the bombing of a discotheque in this city.

[B18] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man's death in August 2014 was ruled a homicide, although he was shot 33 years before his death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Brady [James Scott Brady]):
    Name this former White House Press Secretary who names an act that requires firearms buyers to undergo federal background checks.
  Part 2 (ans: assassinate Ronald Reagan [or obvious equivalents for "assassinate"; prompt on partial answers]):
    James Brady was wounded when John Hinckley, Jr. unsuccessfully attempted to perform this action to impress Jodie Foster.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Haig [Alexander Meigs Haig, Jr.]):
    In the moments following the assassination attempt, this man declared "I am in control here" at a White House press conference.

[B19] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer some questions about an electoral ass-whooping, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Walter Frederick "Fritz" Mondale):
    While serving as a Senator from Minnesota, this man opposed the Vietnam War as a member of the Church Committee. He campaigned for the Democratic presidential nomination by questioning Gary Hart using the Wendy's slogan "Where's the Beef?"
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Wilson Reagan):
    Mondale teamed up with Geraldine Ferraro on the Democratic ticket in the 1984 election, but lost 49 states to this incumbent president who invoked the image of "Morning in America."
  Part 3 (ans: a bear in the woods [accept answers like ursus, ursidae from smart alecks]):
    Reagan ran another ad during the 1984 election featuring images of this animal and asking, "Isn't it smart to be as strong as [this animal]?" as a lone man blocks the path of this creature.

[B20] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Current Events
     Leadin: Ted Weiss led an unsuccessful attempt to impeach the President after this action. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United States invasion of Grenada [or obvious equivalents]):
    Name this action, codenamed Operation Urgent Fury, which resulted in the ousting of the People's Revolutionary Government. This action was prompted by the overthrow of Maurice Bishop.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan]):
    The invasion of Grenada was carried out under this U.S. President, who claimed that it was "Morning in America" in an ad campaign for the 1984 election.
  Part 3 (ans: Barry Goldwater):
    Along with Flynt Nichols, this Senator names a 1986 defense reform bill that fixed the inter-service rivalry seen in the invasion of Grenada. This Republican endorsed gay service in military by saying that "Everyone knows that gays have served in the military honorably since the time of Julius Caesar."

[B21] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: US-Soviet tensions during this event were elevated because Korean Airlines Flight 007 was shot down two months earlier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: NATO Able Archer 83):
    Name this NATO exercise, which was allegedly nearly taken by the Soviets as a ruse of war to launch a first strike because NATO simulated going to DEFCON 1.
  Part 2 (ans: Grenada):
    The Soviets were misled by increased US-UK chatter which was actually due to the diplomatic brouhaha caused by the American attack on this Commonwealth island nation in Operation Urgent Fury.
  Part 3 (ans: Ronald Wilson Reagan):
    The US invaded Grenada during this man's presidency, whose claims that the USSR would be relegated to the "ash heap of history" and promotion of SDI made Soviets wary during Able Archer.

[B22] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Alexander Haig stated that he was "in control here" after this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan [accept synonyms for "assassination" such as killing]):
    Name this action perpetrated by John Hinckley, Jr., whose target had just given a speech to the AFL-CIO at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
  Part 2 (ans: Jodie Foster [or Alicia Christian Foster]):
    John Hinckley had been trying to impress this actress, who he became obsessed with after watching Taxi Driver multiple times.
  Part 3 (ans: White House Press Secretary):
    During the attempted assassination, James Brady was shot and left permanently paralyzed. Brady was serving in this position and continued to hold it until the end of the Reagan administration, although largely in a symbolic role.

[B23] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about governors of California.
  Part 1 (ans: Ronald Reagan):
    This governor of California once presided over the Screen Actors Guild. He was president from 1981-1989.
  Part 2 (ans: 1916):
    It was said that Charles Evans Hughes lost this election "by a handshake," referring to his snub of California governor Hiram Johnson. The incumbent in this election, a former President of Princeton, ran with Thomas Marshall.
  Part 3 (ans: Pat Brown [or Edmund Gerald Brown]):
    Nixon stated "they won't have Dick Nixon to kick around anymore" after he lost a gubernatorial election to this man. While running against Reagan, he reminded a bunch of kids that John Wilkes Booth was also an actor.

[B24] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: If you want to own one of these items, be prepared to pay a $200 transfer tax and to give your fingerprints to the FBI. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fully automatic weapons [or fully automatics; accept automatic paired with anything like firearm, gun, etc.; do not accept "semi-automatic weapons" or similar answers]):
    Name these items that, in the U.S., are only available for purchase if they were manufactured before May 19, 1986.
  Part 2 (ans: Ronald [Wilson] Reagan):
    The bill outlawing the sale of automatic weapons after 1986 was signed into law by this president who was shot in 1981 by John Hinckley in an event that prompted the passage of the 1993 Brady Handgun bill.
  Part 3 (ans: the Gun Control Act of 1968 [or GCA]):
    Federal firearms laws are split into two titles. Title II is the National Firearms Act of 1934, and Title I is this piece of 1968 legislation that lists classes of people prohibited from owning firearms and creates the Federal Firearms Licensing scheme for firearms dealers.
