=== STOCK CLUES: Louis XIV ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 53 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 31 found, 93 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Louis XIV [accept Louis the Sun King before "Sun King"; prompt on Sun King alone; prompt on Louis]
  - At a clergy assembly, this ruler created a set of privileges known as the Gallican liberties which were annulled by Pope Innocent XI, who vetoed this ruler's selection for Prince-elector of Cologne. [PWR]
  - The assassination of Francois Langlade was carried out by Abraham Mazel and a group of Camisards under the rule of this ruler.
  - The Battle of the Faubourg St Antoine was fought during a rebellion against this ruler that was started by local appellate courts called parlements and named for (*) slingshots used to break windows. [PWR]
  - The Grand Alliance was convened to curb this ruler, who faced the Fronde rebellion.
  - This ruler, who suggested Philip of Anjou to succeed Charles II, kicking off the War of Spanish Succession, uttered "I am the state." The building of the Palace of Versailles was ordered by, for 10 points, what French "Sun King?" [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Louis XIV [accept Louis the Sun King; prompt on Louis]
  - This art patron commissioned a painting set at a tent where Sisygambis  mistakenly kneels to Hephaestion  instead of the title character.
  - Under this patron of The Family of Darius Before Alexander, a "hierarchy of genres" was formulated with history painting at the top and still lives at the bottom.
  - At an art boutique, a woman in a pink dress watches a man box up a portrait of this ruler in Antoine Watteau's The Shop Sign of Gersaint.
  - The hilt of a sword can be seen behind this ruler's blue robe embroidered with a gold fleur-de-lis as he holds a scepter in a portrait by Hyacinthe Rigaud .
  - Nicolas Poussin influenced the namesake artistic style of this ruler, who employed Charles Le Brun as a court painter.
  - For 10 points, name this French monarch who commissioned the Palace of Versailles. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Louis XIV ("the fourteenth") [prompt on Louis] (The opera in the first sentence is Lully's Persee.)
  - In an extravagant revival of an opera dedicated to this person, a 95-voice choir and 80 dancers helped inaugurate an opera hall that this person left unfinished. [PWR]
  - While serving this person, one composer popularized a genre whose introduction is characterized by slow, double-dotted rhythms. [PWR]
  - One composer befriended this person while dancing in the Royal Ballet of the Night and later wrote a grand motet that ironically celebrated this person's (*) recovery from surgery. [PWR]
  - After he consecrated this ruler's chapel organ, a composer nicknamed "Le Grand" was named court harpsichordist following this ruler's death.
  - While premiering his Te Deum, this ruler's Master of Music contracted gangrene after stabbing himself with a conducting staff.
  - For 10 points, name this king who employed Francois Couperin  and Jean-Baptiste Lully at Versailles. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis alone; prompt on the Sun King or le Roi Soleil]
  - In a gigantic ceiling painting, this figure stands opposite Glory, who sits on a cloud, and above two putti playing cards. [PWR]
  - The goddess of Justice appears engraved in gold on a column in a portrait of this figure which depicts him standing on a floral, golden carpet. [PWR]
  - A woman in pink watches as a worker puts a portrait of this figure into a (*) crate in Jean-Antoine Watteau's painting The Shop-Sign of Gersaint. [PWR]
  - This ruler posed with a golden scepter in his right hand in Hyacinthe Rigaud's official portrait of him.
  - This ruler named Charles Le Brun as "first painter" and commissioned him to paint the Hall of Mirrors in his royal residence.
  - For 10 points, name this French king who commissioned the Palace of Versailles in the 1660s. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Louis XIV ("the fourteenth") of France [or Louis the Great; accept Sun King or le Roi Soleil before "Sun King" is read; prompt on Louis]
  - This monarch requested the apostolic constitution Regiminis Apostolici from Pope Alexander VII , which required all clergy to subscribe to a "formula for submission" and led to the Formulary Controversy.
  - The mystic Jeanne Guyon  briefly convinced this king's secret wife to adopt Quietism.
  - This king, who razed the Jansenist stronghold at Port-Royal Abbey, forced religious minorities to quarter destructive and unruly soldiers with his dragonnade policy.
  - This king was tutored by Cardinal Mazarin, who signed the Peace of Westphalia and dealt with the Fronde as chief minister during this king's regency.
  - This monarch revoked religious toleration with the Edict of Fontainebleau , leading most of his country's Huguenots to flee.
  - For 10 points, name this "Sun King" of France. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: mime performance [or mime arts word forms like miming; or corporeal mime; or pantomime; accept dumbshows; or mumming or mummery; prompt on clowning until "Bip" is read] (Louis XIV banned the Italian Players from speaking in performances after insulting his mistress, resulting in the birth of French pantomime; the second sentence refers to Mummenschanz.)
  - The 18th-century theater director John Rich popularized this art form in England after being inspired by innovations made by the Italian Players, who were exiled to the Left Bank by Louis XIV.
  - A Swiss collective uses elaborate, rearrangeable masks made of clay and toilet paper in performances of this type.
  - Etienne Decroux  spent decades perfecting the postmodern "corporeal" type of this art form.
  - Jean-Louis Barrault  performed this art form in the film Children of Paradise.
  - A famous performer of this art form created a piece satirizing the four ages of man in the guise of Bip the Clown, and referred to this art form as "the art of silence." For 10 points, Marcel Marceau practiced what performing art that stereotypically involves pretending to be in a box? [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Louis XIV
  - In a ceiling painting, this man carries a massive golden tiller and gazes at his reflection in Minerva's shield.
  - Depictions of his face are often accompanied by the motto "Nec pluribus impar." This man rejected a design for a palace facade from Gian Lorenzo Bernini in favor of a colonnade by Claude Perrault (pair-OH).
  - This royal, who brought the Gobelins (gohb-LANS) tapestry factory into prominence, appears in a portrait being boxed away in Watteau's (vah-TOH's) Shop-Sign at Gersaint (zhair-SANN).
  - He holds a scepter and wears a flowing blue robe embroidered with a gold fleur-de-lis pattern in a portrait by Hyacinthe Rigaud (yah-SANT ree-GO).
  - Charles Le Brun decorated the Hall of Mirrors while serving, for 10 points, what man who greatly embellished the Palace of Versailles as the "Sun King" of France? [GIVE]

[T8] 2016 ARTSEE (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Louis [accept Louis XIII or Louis XIV]
  - A painting of a man with this name "at the age of Five in the Costume of the Scare" was commissioned by that man's regent.
  - Rowers identified as Force, Religion, Justice, and Concord propel a ship whose rudder is handed to a man with this name in a painting of that man "coming of age." A constable is allegorically depicted as a monster slain by a feminine St. [PWR]
  - Michael in painting of a man with this name and his mother titled The Return of the Mother to her Son. [PWR]
  - A man with this name is handed a wreath by his mother in heaven in a symbolic depiction of their reconciliation titled (*) The Triumph of Truth. [PWR]
  - A full-length portrait of a man with this name with a cane and huge black wig is the most famous work of Hyacinthe Rigaud.
  - A future king of this name is reconciled with his mother in a series of twenty-four paintings by Peter Paul Rubens.
  - For 10 points, give this name of a son of Marie de Medici who ruled France, as well as his son, the "Sun King." [GIVE]

[T9] 2012 Chicago Open History Doubles (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: illegitimate children/sons/daughters of Louis IV [accept stuff like bastards of Louis XIV; accept things like children of Athenais de Montespan before mention; accept stuff like children/sons/daughters of Louis XIV before "Louis de La Valliere" prompt afterwards]
  - Louis Alexandre, the Count of Toulouse, and Grand Admiral of France from the age of 5 was one of these people.
  - Marie Anne, the Princess of Conti, and daughter of Louise de La Valliere was one of these people.
  - One of these people married Louise Benedicte and, as Duke of Maine, his correspondence with Giulio Alberoni was part of a conspiracy to replace the Regency.
  - In addition to that participant in the Cellamare conspiracy and son of Athenais de Montespan, his sister, who was also one of these people, was married to her first cousin Philippe of Orleans.
  - That sister was the wife of the Regent for the son of le Petit Dauphin.
  - The marriage of these people to Princes of the Blood caused controversy in the court of the father of these people, who instigated the War of the Devolution.
  - For 10 points, name these people whose mothers were mistresses of the Sun King. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: After he was restored to power following the Fronde, this clergyman began strategically marrying off his nieces to the most powerful French and Italian noble families, including the Bourbons. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cardinal Jules Mazarin [accept Giulio Raimondo Mazzarino or Giulio Raimondo Mazzarini]):
    Name this Cardinal who was chief minister of France from 1642 to 1661, succeeding another cardinal known as the "Red Eminence."
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV):
    Mazarin's niece Anna Maria Mancini was the first love of this French monarch, and as a result was banished from court so this "Sun King" could marry Maria Theresa of Spain instead.
  Part 3 (ans: Affair of the Poisons [or Affaires des Poisons]):
    Mazarin's niece Olympia Mancini married into the House of Savoy, but became an influential mistress of Louis XIV until she was expelled during this scandal for plotting with the fortune teller La Voisin.

[B2] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This game was derived from an earlier Spanish variety where the dealer distributes a "top layout" and "bottom layout" after all "coups" are revealed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: three-card monte):
    Name this insanely popular confidence game in 1860's Paris that instructed players to "find the lady." Dealers in that game used the "bent corner technique" to trick players who constantly played.
  Part 2 (ans: Faro [or Farobank; or Pharoah]):
    Georgina Cavendish was regarded as one of the Ladies of this "immoral" French card game that had a very low house edge. Charles James Fox once pulled a 22-hour all-nighter losing over £10000 playing this game.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great; or Louis the Sun King; Accept Louis Le Grand; or Le Roi Soleil]):
    Because the nobility couldn't stop losing money playing Hocca, Faro, and Basset, this long-reigning French king banned those games at his court, which had recently moved to Versailles.

[B3] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: John Lynch described this dynasty's colonial reforms as a "second conquest" that limited the power of local-born elites and replaced corregidores ("co-ray-hee-doors") with intendants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: House of Bourbon):
    Name this dynasty which was forced to grant the asiento monopoly on the slave trade with its colonies to British merchants during peace negotiations at Utrecht, which also split this royal house into two distinct lines.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great or Louis le grand]):
    The installation of Philip V as the Bourbon king of Spain was a success for this French "Sun King", Philip's grandfather who passed away a year later after 72 years of rule.
  Part 3 (ans: furs [or fueros]):
    Philip V promulgated the Nueva Planta decrees, which centralized government under Castile and abolished these legal charters that granted privileges in Valencia, Catalonia, Aragon, and the Basque Country.

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect's grand-nephew Jules Hardouin ("ar-DWAN") adopted this architect's surname and emulated his plans in buildings such as the Hotel des Invalides. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Francois Mansart ("mon-SAR") [accept mansard roof]):
    Name this architect of the classicist style. This architect popularized and gave his name to a double-sided pitched roof also known as a curb roof.
  Part 2 (ans: Abbot Suger ("soo-ZHAIR") [or Abbe Suger; accept Sugerius]):
    Before his death, Mansart created unfinished designs for a chapel for the Basilica of Saint-Denis ("san-duh-NEE"), which had earlier been remodeled by this abbot and advisor to Louis VII. This man's plans for Saint-Denis were a pioneering realization of Gothic style.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis XIV ("fourteen," "the fourteenth," or "quatorze") [accept Louis the Great or Louis le Grand; accept Louis, the Sun King or Louis, le Roi Soleil; prompt on Louis; prompt on Sun King; prompt on Le Roi Soleil]):
    Mansart worked with this ruler's longtime minister Cardinal Mazarin and contributed to this ruler's preferred classicist style. This patron of the arts expanded the Palace of Versailles from a hunting lodge.

[B5] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man commissioned a version of The Family of Darius Before Alexander now hung in the Mars Room. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Name this king who had three "periods" in his namesake style. A portrait by Hyacinthe Rigaud shows him wearing a blue cape and leaning on an upside-down scepter.
  Part 2 (ans: Palace of Versailles):
    The "first painter" to Louis XIV, Charles Le Brun, created many paintings for this complex, such as its Ambassador Staircase. Le Brun also designed over 30 works for this complex's Hall of Mirrors.
  Part 3 (ans: hurdy gurdy):
    Another of Louis XIV's court painters was Georges de la Tour, who often depicted blind players of these instruments. The leftmost fighter in de la Tour's The Musician's Brawl defends himself with one of these instruments.

[B6] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Andre-Charles Boulle served as this king's royal cabinetmaker and designed an ornate, 14-drawer cabinet supported by figures representing Ceres and Bacchus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Name this king, who ordered Charles le Brun and Jules Hardouin-Mansart to design the Palace of Versailles.
  Part 2 (ans: marquetry [accept parquetry; accept intarsie or intarsia]):
    Boulle lends his name to "Boulle work," a type of this woodworking technique utilizing tortoiseshell and brass. Unlike "inlay," this technique involves cutting and assembling tiny pieces known as veneers onto a piece of wood.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Chippendale [accept "Chinese Chippendale"; reject "Thomas Chippendale the Younger"]):
    This designer incorporated Boulle work into many entries in his furniture catalog "The Gentleman and Cabinet-maker's Director". This designer popularized a simple, lattice-backed chair termed "Chinese".

[B7] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The works of Corneille and Racine serve as the foundation for this genre, which typically begin with an allegorical prelude extolling the king, such as depicting him as Apollo slaying the Python of Delphi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tragedie en musique ("tra-jay-DEE on myoo-ZEEK") [or tragedie lyrique; or musical tragedy; or lyrical tragedy]):
    Name this operatic genre pioneered by Jean-Baptiste Lully. This genre was invented with Lully's opera Cadmus et Hermione, and became the foundation for later operas like Charpentier's Medee and Rameau's Castor et Pollux.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV ("the fourteenth") [or Louis the Great; or Louis le Grand; prompt on Louis]):
    Lully developed tragedie en musique as court composer for this ruler. This king's role as Apollo in Ballet Royal de la Nuit ("nwee") supported his presentation as the "Sun King."
  Part 3 (ans: opera seria):
    As French opera developed, it diverged from this Italian operatic style due to French preference for recitatives and dislike of castrati singers. This style is contrasted with opera buffa.

[B8] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This conflict is traditionally divided into phases led by the parlements and princes of the blood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Fronde):
    Name this mid 17th century civil war which ended in the triumph of royal power in France. It is named for a weapon used by rioting Parisian crowds.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis Dieudonne, or Louis the Great or Louis le Grand, accept Louis Quatorze]):
    The Fronde was a revolt against this "Sun King" of France, who was an early model for absolutist governance in Europe.
  Part 3 (ans: indentants):
    As part of Louis XIV's centralizing administration, these officials were temporarily appointed from among the nobles of the robe and used as inspectors to enforce royal power in the provinces.

[B9] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This policy was parodied by a lubok depicting a cat that "farts sweetly," which is often attributed to Vasili Loren. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: beard tax [or Peter the Great's beard tax]):
    Name this policy which required some people to carry tokens with part of a face on it. This policy was adopted after a ruler took a trip disguised as Pyotr Mikhailov ("mee-ha-eel-ov").
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis Quatorze; prompt on Louis]):
    Peter the Great was inspired to require people to shave by the court of this French "Sun King."
  Part 3 (ans: Astrakhan):
    A different lubok parodies the long titles of tsars with a caption above a cat being buried that says he is from Kazan with the mind of this city. Both Stenka Razin and Kondraty Bulavin led cossack revolts in this city.

[B10] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer often collaborated with the librettist Philipe Quinault. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Lully):
    Name this composer who wrote incidental music for plays like The Pleasures of the Enchanted Isle. This composer also wrote the operas Alceste and Alys.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Lully was a court composer for this monarch. This ballet-dancing monarch liked to portray Roman Emperors, and he received his nickname the "Sun King" for portraying Apollo.
  Part 3 (ans: Pierre Beauchamp):
    This choreographer worked closely with Lully, creating the choreography for Alceste, Atys, and Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme. Pierre Rameau credited this man with creating the five foot positions used by ballet dancers.

[B11] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the French cabinetmaker Andre-Charles Boulle.
  Part 1 (ans: tortoiseshell [or turtleshell; accept turtle or tortoise]):
    Boulle is primarily remembered for his skill in marquetry, in which he would inlay this material, pewter, and bronze into furniture. The ancient Greek lyre is believed to have been originally made from this material.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Sun King; prompt on Louis]):
    Boulle was patronized by this monarch, for whom he made several tortoiseshell armoires, cabinets and commodes. He is magnificently dressed in a portrait of him by Hyacinthe Rigaud ("yuh-SAHNT ree-GO").
  Part 3 (ans: ormolu):
    Boulle's work also included this dangerous technique in which gold and mercury were mixed together, solidified, and then applied to furniture. Because the fumes of mercury are incredibly hazardous, those who performed this technique often died young.

[B12] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Madame de Maintenon, the secret second wife of this ruler, founded the Maison Royale de Saint-Louis to offer educational opportunities to noble girls. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Name this "Sun King," who ordered the transformation of the Palace of Versailles into a royal residence.
  Part 2 (ans: Duchy of Savoy [or Duche de Savoie or Ducato di Savoia; accept County of Savoy; accept House of Savoy or Savoyards]):
    Supported by Charles Emmanuel III, Rosa Govone organized a convitti consisting of a series of shelters and textile shops to provide work to young women throughout this duchy. Monarchs of Italy following the 19th-century reunification came from a family named for this duchy's namesake county, who ruled Piedmont-Sardinia.
  Part 3 (ans: Casa Pia):
    Maria I of Portugal established this educational institution to raise children displaced by the Lisbon Earthquake.

[B13] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer fiercely defended their monopoly on theatre music, developing genres such as tragedie en musique and the comedie-ballet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Lully (Giovanni Battista Lulli)):
    Name this composer. They invented the French Overture and wrote incidental music for many of Moliere's early plays, such as Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme [ZHEN-tee-omm].
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Lully was appointed royal music master by this monarch. An accomplished ballet dancer, this monarch appeared in the Ballet Royal de la Nuit as the god Apollo, part of their self-presentation as the 'Sun King'.
  Part 3 (ans: Marc-Antoine Charpentier):
    Protected by the Duchess of Guise, this composer flouted Lully's monopoly, writing music for Moliere's The Imaginary Invalid. Music master for the Jesuits, the prelude to one of their Te Deums is the theme of the European Broadcasting Union.

[B14] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Joshua Janavel, the "Lion of Rora", led these people during "Piedmontese Easter", where they were massacred by Savoyard forces. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Waldensians [or Vallenses, Waldenses, Valdesi, Vaudois, followers of Peter Waldo; prompt on Poor Men of Lyon]):
    Name this Christian sect founded in the 12th century by a wealthy merchant who renounced everything for voluntary poverty.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis or the Sun King]):
    The Waldensians were massacred by the forces of Victor Amadeus II of Savoy, a nephew of this king. This king revoked the Edict of Nantes from his palace at Versailles.
  Part 3 (ans: St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre):
    French religious freedom took a hit during this 1572 event, during which Gaspard de Coligny and other Huguenots were attacked.

[B15] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this event, a woman called La Voisin ("vwah-ZANN") confessed to having murdered no fewer than 2,500 infants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Affair of the Poisons [or L'affaire des poisons]):
    Name this sensational event in French history that exposed the fact that many members of French society had been hiring female fortune-tellers for criminal purposes. This event implicated the Madame de Montespan ("mon-teh-SPAWN").
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great or Louis le Grand Monarque]):
    The Madame de Montespan was the mistress of this French king, during whose reign the Affair of the Poisons took place. This king, who was called the "Sun King," built the Palace of Versailles.
  Part 3 (ans: Eugene of Savoy [or Francois-Eugene de Savoie or Franz Eugen von Savoyen]):
    This general's mother, Olympe Mancini ("oh-LAMP mahn-CHEE-nee"), was expelled from the French court as a result of the Affair of the Poisons. Fighting for Austria, this general defeated the French at the Battle of Blenheim ("BLEN-um").

[B16] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The death of one of these two monarchs caused the other to invade the Netherlands in the War of the Devolution. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV of France AND Philip IV of Spain [accept Louis the Great, Louis the Grand, the Sun King, Louis le Grand, Louis de Grand Monarque, Le Roi Soleil in place of "Louis XIV"; accept Philip III of Portugal in place of "Philip IV," but do not accept or prompt on "Philip III" by itself; accept Felipe IV in place of "Philip IV"; prompt on Louis; prompt on Philip]):
    Name these two kings of neighboring countries. They signed the Treaty of the Pyrenees to end a war between their countries that included the Battle of the Dunes.
  Part 2 (ans: the Fronde):
    During the Franco-Spanish War, Philip IV supported the Grand Conde's revolt as part of this larger uprising against Louis XIV. The crushing of this revolt, which had phases "of the parlements ("par-luh-MAWN")" and "of the nobles," led to Louis XIV's absolutist rule.
  Part 3 (ans: Thirty Years' War):
    The Fronde ("frond") occurred in the aftermath of this large European conflict, which was ended by the 1648 Treaty of Westphalia. Spanish military dominance was crushed after France's victory in this war's Battle of Rocroi ("ro-KWAH").

[B17] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer and court musician pioneered the French overture, in which two sections are each repeated, with one homophonic section and one fugal section. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Lully):
    Name this composer of a Te Deum for double chorus and orchestra.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Lully was the court composer for this king. Lully's opera Atys was known as "the king's opera" for seemingly depicting this "sun" king's real-life love triangle with the queen and Madame de Maintenon.
  Part 3 (ans: tragedie lyrique [accept tragedie en musique or lyric tragedy or musical tragedy, prompt on "tragedy"]):
    Lully's Atys and Alceste developed this style of French opera. The stiff and dotted rhythms in Atys's overture set the standard for stately sounding music in this operatic style of work, which did not always have sad endings.

[B18] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: French composers distinguished between "petit" types of these pieces accompanied only by continuo and "grand" types with choir and orchestra, the latter of which was a favorite of Jean-Baptiste Lully ("loo-LEE"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: motets):
    Name this genre of sacred vocal piece that originated in medieval Europe. Classical era examples of this genre include Mozart's Ave verum corpus.
  Part 2 (ans: Francois Couperin ("coop-RAN") [or Couperin le Grand; prompt on Couperin]):
    Most of this composer's sacred music output consists of petit motets, such as his three settings of the Tenebrae service for Holy Wednesday. A treatise by this composer contains eight preludes and an allemande.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Many of Lully and Couperin's motets were commissioned by this French monarch, who employed Lully for most of his life. His patronage of music contributed to his reputation as the "Sun King."

[B19] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Even after the French Wars of Religion, France was still not very happy on the religious front. For 10 points each, answer some questions on later French religious intransigence:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV [also accept Louis le Grand, Louis the Great, Le Roi Soleil, or the Sun King; prompt on Louis]):
    To the plaudits of Antoine Arnauld, this king promulgated the pro-absolutist 1682 Declaration of the Clergy of France, causing a long feud with the Pope. This king revoked the Edict of Nantes and stated "l'etat, c'est moi."
  Part 2 (ans: Gallicanism):
    The Declaration of the Clergy of France codified and promulgated this French anti-ultramontanist doctrine championed by Pierre Pithou that holds that the Pope had spiritual, but not temporal, jurisdiction.
  Part 3 (ans: Innocent):
    Louis particularly feuded with the 11th pope of this name, but had some detente with the 12th. The 3rd pope of this name fought King John over Stephen Langton, called the Fourth Lateran Council, and launched the Fourth Crusade.

[B20] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Strasbourg is home to a "barrage" named for this person that embanks the Ill River. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sebastien Le Prestre de Vauban):
    Name this man who developed the technique of ricochet firing, in which projectiles were counterintuitively launched at lower angles and lower power. The city of Lille ("leel") is home to one of his many star-shaped designs.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Sun King or le Roi Soleil]):
    Vauban both designed and broke forts for this French king during the many wars he fought during his 72-year reign, the longest of any monarch in history.
  Part 3 (ans: Luxembourg):
    Vauban was responsible for expanding this city's fortress on the Bock promontory, which was nicknamed the "Gibraltar of the North." An 1867 "crisis" over the area around this city led to its establishment as a neutral zone.

[B21] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: As traditionally defined, this man's "first system" drew heavily from the ideas of Blaise Francois de Pagan (blayz frahn-SWAH de pah-GAHN), who wrote the widely influential treatise Les Fortifications. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vauban [or Sebastien Le Prestre de Vauban; or Marquis de Vauban; or Seigneur de Vauban]):
    Name this French engineer who specialized in siege warfare and defensive structures. This designer of the Citadel of Lille (LEEL) was instrumental in capturing and fortifying Namur against Menno van Coehoorn (KOO-horn), his Dutch counterpart.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV of France [accept Louis the Great or Louis le Grand; prompt on Louis]):
    Vauban served this French ruler who was known as the "Sun King." This absolute monarch revoked the Edict of Nantes (nahnt) in 1685's Edict of Fontainebleau.
  Part 3 (ans: War of the Grand Alliance [or War of the League of Augsburg; or Nine Years' War]):
    Both the French capture and subsequent defense of Namur occurred during this war, which is named for the coalition of the Holy Roman Empire, Spain, Britain, and others that formed to resist Louis's territorial expansions.

[B22] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This king signed the treaty of Dover with England, who then aided him when he invaded the United Provinces. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV):
    Name this king of France who fought the War of the Grand Alliance and famously declared "I am the State."
  Part 2 (ans: Treaties of Nijmegen):
    These treaties, signed in 1678 and 1679, ended the Franco-Dutch War, giving France significant holdings in modern Belgium.
  Part 3 (ans: Michiel de Ruyter):
    This Dutch Admiral active during the Franco- and Anglo-Dutch wars commanded at the Four Days' and St. James's Day battles before destroying the docked British fleet in the daring Raid on the Medway.

[B23] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This king benefitted from the genius of his military engineer Vauban at the Siege of Namur, a victory for France in the War of the League of Augsburg. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV of France [accept the Sun King]):
    Name this French king who succeeded in placing his grandson Philip of Anjou on the throne of Spain after the War of the Spanish Succession and proclaimed his absolutism by saying, "I am the state."
  Part 2 (ans: Maria Theresa of Spain):
    The dowry for Louis' marriage to this Spanish princess was never paid, leading to the War of Devolution. This queen shares her name with a woman who sent Gerard van Swieten to investigate vampires in Moravia.
  Part 3 (ans: Code noir [or Black Code]):
    Louis issued this decree, written by Jean-Baptiste Colbert and the Marquis de Seignelay, in 1685. It introduced various regulations for slavery in the French Empire, including the requirement that all slaves be baptized Catholic.

[B24] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: During a scandal at this king's court, Nicholas de la Reynie headed a tribunal that sentenced 36 people to death for using illicit poisons acquired from fortune-tellers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV):
    Name this 17th century French king whose mistress, the Madame de Montespan, was implicated in the Affair of the Poisons. He opposed King William III of England during the War of the League of Augsburg.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Overbury):
    In 1613, this English poet caused an uproar at James I's court by writing "A Wife," often interpreted as an enjoinder for his friend Robert Carr not to marry Frances Howard. To get him out of the way, Frances Howard had him served sulfuric acid.
  Part 3 (ans: an umbrella):
    In 1978, the Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov, residing in London, was assassinated with a ricin pellet fired out of one of these unusual devices.

[B25] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A displeasing equestrian statue of this ruler was stuck in a corner of shrubbery until Francois Girardon modified it, carving the "mountain of virtue" under the horse into flames and the rider into Marcus Curtius. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV [prompt on Louis]):
    Name this French king whose ugly statue by Bernini was balanced with a gigantic bronze equestrian statue by Girardon in the Place Vendome. Andre Le Notre landscaped this Sun King's Palace of Versailles expansions.
  Part 2 (ans: Le Brun [or Charles Le Brun; or Louise Elisabeth Vigee Le Brun; do not accept or prompt on "LeBron"]):
    According to Louis, the "greatest French painter of all time" was an artist with this surname who decorated the Hall of Mirrors and the Salons of War and Peace. A female artist with the maiden name Vigee who married into this family painted portraits of Marie Antoinette.
  Part 3 (ans: Jules Hardouin-Mansart [or Jules Hardouin-Mansart]):
    This chief architect of Louis XIV designed the Place Vendome as well as the Hall of Mirrors and other Versailles buildings such as the Grand Trianon and the Orangerie.

[B26] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This man founded a state-run glass company to supplant Venetian glass, whose importation he eventually banned. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Colbert):
    Name this former intendant who, as finance minister, based his economic policies around the accumulation of gold. He also maintained the Maison du Roi as Superintendent of Buildings.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Sun King; or Louis le Grand; prompt on "Louis"]):
    Colbert served under this French King, who endured the Fronde rebellion during his youth. This absolutist king was advised by Cardinal Mazarin until the cardinal's death in 1661.
  Part 3 (ans: Nicolas Fouquet):
    This earlier head of finance under Louis XIV fell out of favor because of his extravagant displays of wealth. He expected to become head of government after Cardinal Mazarin's death, but in a reversal of fortune, was imprisoned instead.

[B27] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Identify the following about the life of the woman born Margaret Lucas, who among other things wrote the proto-science fiction work The Blazing World, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Cavendish):
    Lucas married a member of this family, who was made Marquess of Newscastle-upon-Tyne and appointed to educate the future Charles II. Another man with this surname was killed in the Phoenix Park Murders while serving as Chief Secretary for Ireland.
  Part 2 (ans: Queen Henrietta Maria of France [or Henriette Marie]):
    Lucas served this English queen, who commissioned Inigo Jones to create the Queen's House at Greenwich. She was the mother of Charles II and James II.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great or Louis The Grand Monarch or Louis Le Grand Monarque or Louis the Sun King; prompt on "Sun King"]):
    Lucas traveled with Queen Henrietta Maria into exile at the court of this French king. He got his country into the War of the Spanish Succession.

[B28] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: One of this king's lovers was unhappily married to the author of Le Roman comique. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great or Louis the Sun King or Louis le Gran]):
    Identify this king who had an early love affair with Francoise Scarron. His pretty-much openly gay brother Philippe I, Duke of Orleans, won the Battle of Cassel.
  Part 2 (ans: Quietism [or Semi-Quietism]):
    It's not Jansenism, but Francoise Scarron used her influence with the king to persecute Jacques-Benigne Bossuet for advancing this religious doctrine. Madame Guyon also promoted the pure-love variety of doctrine, which was condemned by Innocent XII.
  Part 3 (ans: Madame de Pompadour [or Jeanne-Antoinette Le Normant d'Etioles]):
    This mistress of Louis XV patronized building projects such as the Chateau de Bellevue and Place de la Concorde, and supported many writers of the Encyclopedie. She also lends her name to a type of hairstyle.

[B29] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the aristocrats, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Affair of the Diamond Necklace):
    This scandal, orchestrated by Jeanne de la Motte, was set in motion when the prostitute Nicole d'Oliva met the Cardinal de Rohan in a dark garden and convinced him to buy the namesake item on Marie Antoinette's behalf.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV of France [or Louis the Sun King, prompt on "Louis the Great"]):
    In the Afair of the Poisons, it was revealed that several French nobles were hitting up female fortune-tellers to buy black-market drugs. The most notable aristocrat implicated was this French king's mistress, the Madame de Montespan.
  Part 3 (ans: baccarat [or the "Royal Baccarat Scandal", prompt for more specifc on cards or "a card game"]):
    While he was Prince of Wales, the future king Edward VII of England was revealed to have played this illegal game in 1890 at Tranby Crof, the country house of Arthur Wilson. Edward was then forced to appear in court as a witness because his fellow player Sir William Gordon-Cumming was accused of cheating.

[B30] 2012 College History Bowl (2012) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This man died serving a prison term at the fortress of Pignerol. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nicolas Fouquet, marquis de Belle-Ile, vicomte de Melun et Vaux [or Nicolas Foucquet]):
    Identify this minister whose downfall came when he gave a lavish party at his opulent chateau at Vaux-le-Vicomte.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great; prompt on the "Sun King"]):
    Nicolas Fouquet served as an early finance minister for this French king. His other prominent advisers included Cardinal Mazarin and Jean-Baptiste Colbert.
  Part 3 (ans: Tolouse):
    Colbert ordered the construction of the Canal du Midi, which connected this French city to the Mediterranean. It was besieged in 1217 during the Albigensian Crusade.

[B31] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted a 1698 self-portrait in a turban, as well as a double portrait of his mother Marie Serre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hyacinthe Rigaud):
    Name this artist, the leading French portrait painter of the late 17th and early 18th century along with Nicolas de Largilliere.
  Part 2 (ans: Louis XIV [or the Sun King; prompt on Louis]):
    Rigaud painted a full-length swagger portrait of this French king, who also ordered the construction of Versailles.
  Part 3 (ans: John Singer Sargent):
    In the late 19th century, this American artist painted many swagger portraits, including ones depicting the family members of Asher Wertheimer. He also painted Ellen Terry as Lady Macbeth and a seated portrait of John D. Rockefeller.
