=== STOCK CLUES: Giovanni Boccaccio ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 LITANY (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Giovanni Boccaccio (the first few stanzas of Chaucer's Anelida and Arcite are largely translations of Boccaccio's Teseida; Boccaccio may have met with Chaucer and Petrarch at the wedding mentioned)
  - Walter William Skeat identified that Statius is adapted between six stanzas that are translated from this author in the unfinished poem Anelida and Arcite. [PWR]
  - This author has an alphabetically later surname than a compatriot poet and a foreign diplomat that this writer may have met at Violante Visconti's wedding. [PWR]
  - A twelve book poem by this author which begins with Theseus besieging the Scythians and marrying Hippolyta is subtitled for the "nuptials of Emily," whom (*) Palemone and Arcita fight over. [PWR]
  - An English author drew much of the material for his Legend of Good Women from this author's On Famous Women and adapted this author's Teseida and story of Patient Griselda for his "Knight's" and "Clerk's" Tales.
  - For 10 points, several of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales borrow from what Italian author's Decameron? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Giovanni Boccaccio [accept il Certaldese, the Certaldan, Giovanni da Certaldo, or Johannes de Certaldo] (The other two "crowns" are Petrarch and Dante.)
  - In a story by this author, a Chinese man shames his young rival's plot to outdo his generosity by gladly agreeing to swap identities.
  - A judge created by this author digs up a venomous toad from a garden to solve the deaths of two lovers who rubbed their teeth with sage.
  - In a story by this author, eight successive lovers, like Uzbek the Turk, fail to forestall the virgin wedding of the sultan's daughter Alatiel.
  - Giosue Carducci  wrote that this author looked outward, while the other two of the "three crowns" looked inward and upward.
  - In a story that this author set in Barbary, the innocent Alibech  is seduced into "putting the Devil back in hell," stretching the theme of regained losses set by the day's brigata queen Neifile .
  - For 10 points, what trecento  author grouped 100 novelle  with a frame story about ten Florentines who flee the plague in his Decameron? [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Giovanni Boccaccio
  - On the day she meets her lover for the first time, a character created by this author receives a bad omen when a flower from her crown falls onto the ground. [PWR]
  - That character, who appears in many of this author's works including an adaptation of the legend of Floris and Blancheflour, was inspired by Maria d'Aquino. [PWR]
  - This author of The Elegy of Lady (*) Fiammetta dedicated his best-known work to women who are cooped up in the house all day.
  - This author who inspired Chaucer's "Franklin's Tale" with his Filocolo also wrote about a marquis who stages a fake wedding to his 12-year-old daughter as part of a scheme to test his wife Griselda.
  - For 10 points, name this author who wrote about seven women and three men telling stories during a plague outbreak in his Decameron. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Timothy Hampton claimed that this work's account of Florida and Amador was the "founding narrative of French literature." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heptameron):
    Name this volume, whose "Prologue" introduces a group of travelers, including Parlamente ("par-la-MAHNT") and Saffredent ("sahf-ruh-DAHN"), who are stranded at an abbey while a bridge is constructed.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Marguerite of Navarre's Heptameron is transparently modeled on the Decameron, a collection of stories by this Renaissance Italian writer.
  Part 3 (ans: The Princess of Cleves [or La Princesse de Cleves]):
    The story of Amador and Florida may have inspired this later French novel by the Madame de La Fayette, which depicts the title character's unconsummated affair with the Duke de Nemours ("nuh-MOOR").

[B2] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This collection's narrators include two men whose names may mean "sweet tooth" and "male goat," as well as lightly veiled versions of real noblewomen under names such as Oisille (wah-ZEE) and Parlamente. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Heptameron [or Tales of Fortunate Lovers; or L'Heptameron]):
    Name this collection that includes fictionalized versions of real incidents, such as Marguerite de La Rocque's time marooned near Quebec. Ten people tell stories after a flood delays their return from Cauterets in this collection of 72 stories by Marguerite of Navarre.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Marguerite of Navarre's Heptameron was meant to imitate the structure of this author's Decameron.
  Part 3 (ans: Antoine [accept Antoine de la Sale or Antoine Galland]):
    The Heptameron was also influenced by the Cent nouvelle nouvelles, a compilation by an author with this first name. Another author with this first name was the first European translator of the One Thousand and One Nights.

[B3] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Two answers required. A poem by one of these authors called The Legend of Good Women echoes the other author's collection On Famous Women. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio AND Geoffrey Chaucer [accept in either order]):
    Name these two authors. One of these authors borrowed plots from the other's Decameron [pause] for several of The Canterbury Tales.
  Part 2 (ans: Troilus AND Cressida [or Troilus and Criseyde; accept in either order]):
    Two answers required. Partly inspired by Boccaccio's poem Il Filostrato, Chaucer wrote an epic poem about these two Trojan lovers, which Shakespeare then borrowed for one of his plays.
  Part 3 (ans: Palamon AND Arcite [or Palemone AND Arcita; accept in either order]):
    Two answers required. These two cousins and their conflicting love for Emilia are the subject of Boccaccio's poem Teseida, which Chaucer adapted into "The Knight's Tale."

[B4] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The book that introduced this genre is often criticized for ignoring 20th-century speculative fiction in favor of books like Jan Potocki's ("po-TOTS-kee's") The Manuscript Found in Saragossa and Jacques Cazotte's The Devil in Love. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the fantastic [or fantastic literature; accept fantastical or fantastique or The Fantastic; reject "fantasy"]):
    Name this genre characterized by a hesitation between belief and disbelief in the supernatural. It was outlined in a 1970 book taking a "Structural Approach to a Literary Genre" by Bulgarian critic Tzvetan Todorov.
  Part 2 (ans: the uncanny [accept "The Uncanny" or "Das Unheimliche"]):
    Todorov claimed the fantastic existed in the liminal space between the marvelous and this concept. An essay by Sigmund Freud illustrates this concept with the lifelike doll Olympia from E. T. A. Hoffman's "The Sandman."
  Part 3 (ans: The Decameron [or Decamerone] (by Giovanni Boccaccio)):
    Freudian theory informed Todorov's analysis of this collection. He listed conversion and avoiding punishment as the two major plot structures among this collection's hundred stories, told by people fleeing a plague in Florence.

[B5] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author who married into this family wrote the novel Florentin ("floh-ren-TAHN") and translated work by her friend Madame de Stael ("stal") into German. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Schlegel ("SHLAY-ghel") family [accept Friedrich Schlegel or Karl Wilhelm Friedrich Schlegel; accept August Schlegel or August Wilhelm Schlegel; accept Dorothea von Schlegel or Dorothea Friederike von Schlegel; prompt on Brendel Mendelssohn]):
    Name this family that included two authors who spurred German Romanticism by founding the journal Athenaeum ("ath-en-AY-um").
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio ("boke-KAHT-choh")):
    Gotthold Lessing fictionalized Dorothea von Schlegel's ("dor-oh-TAY-ah von SHLAY-ghel's") father, the German-Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn, as Nathan the Wise in a play that adapts a parable from this Italian author's Decameron.
  Part 3 (ans: Novalis [or Georg Philipp Friedrich Freiherr von Hardenberg]):
    This author, a close friend of the Schlegels, first used his one-word pen name for a set of fragments published in the Athenaeum. This author of the Hymns to the Night introduced the symbol of a blue flower in the unfinished novel Heinrich von Ofterdingen.

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In stories from this collection, a woman cuts off her hands after she learns that her brother is attracted to them, and a woman has to eat a dragon's heart in order to conceive a child. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pentamerone ("pen-TAH-mer-OWN-ay") [or Tale of Tales or Lo cunto de li cunti or Il racconto dei racconti; or Lo trattenemiento de peccerille]):
    Name this 17th-century fairy tale collection by Giambattista Basile ("JAHM-bah-TEE-stah bah-ZEE-leh"), which was the inspiration for a Matteo Garrone film. In its frame story, ten storytellers are hired after the princess Zoza is cursed to never laugh.
  Part 2 (ans: fleas [or pulce or pulci; or Siphonaptera; prompt on insects or arthropods] (The second sentence is from "The Flea" by John Donne.)):
    In the Pentamerone ("pen-TAH-mer-OWN-ay"), a woman has to marry an ogre after her father raises one of these creatures to enormous size. In a poem, one of these creatures is a "bed" and "temple" that holds "three lives in one."
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    The frame-story and style of the Pentamerone was patterned on this author's Decameron.

[B7] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character cuts off his narration after a ribald scenario in which a boy becomes curious about bringing home a "gosling" and placing food into its "bill." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio himself [prompt on Giovanni; prompt on the author]):
    Name this character from the Decameron who defends himself from accusations of impropriety by telling a brief story about a teenage boy who has never seen a woman, because his father Filippo Balducci had raised him in a cave.
  Part 2 (ans: Sanskrit [or samskrtam]):
    Boccacio's interlude is one of several stories in the Decameron adapted from antecedents like the animal fable collection Panchatantra, which was written in this classical Indian language.
  Part 3 (ans: All's Well That Ends Well [by Shakespeare]):
    Another Sanskrit tale inspired the Decameron story of Gillette of Narbonne, which itself inspired this play as seen in the bed trick that is used to trick Bertram into having sex with his wife instead of his intended liaison Diana.

[B8] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: It's not Vegetius, but this author defined a "just war" as one fought to achieve peace without such "detestable and improper" acts like pillaging and harming non-combatants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    Name this author of The Book of Feats of Arms and Chivalry. Reason, Rectitude, and Justice help this author build the title structure in The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 2 (ans: The Romance of the Rose [or Le Roman de la Rose]):
    The Book of the City of Ladies was partially written in response to Jean de Meun's addition to this chivalric poem. At the end of this poem, Venus defeats Danger and Jealousy, allowing the Lover to pick the title flower.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Pizan likely used this author's On Famous Women as reference material for The Book of the City of Ladies. Several Florentines who have fled the black plague tell stories in this author's book The Decameron.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Three Virtues- Reason, Rectitude, and Justice-pull an author out of bed and force her to complete a book titled for these people, itself a sequel to another book named for these people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: ladies [accept equivalents like women; accept The Treasure of the City of Ladies or The Book of the City of Ladies]):
    Name these people. An allegorical city is composed of these people in a book written to refute Jean de Meun's Romance of the Rose.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Christine de Pizan's The Book of the Cities of Ladies was heavily inspired by the works of this earlier author, who wrote On Famous Women and The Decameron.
  Part 3 (ans: The Divine Comedy [prompt on Dante's Inferno]):
    The narrator is taken on a dream journey by the Cumean Sybil in Pizan's The Book of the Path of Long Study, which was inspired by this work. The narrator flies on the back of Geryon down to the Malebolge in the first part of this work.

[B10] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one work in this genre, the knight Muldumarec turns into a bird to seduce the Lord of Caerwent's wife. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lays [accept lais]):
    Name this genre, frequently based on Breton folktales, famous examples of which besides Yonec included Guigemar and Bisclavret, which provides an early depiction of werewolves.
  Part 2 (ans: Christine de Pisan):
    Marie de France, the author of the lais, preceded this other medieval French author by approximately two centuries. Her The Book of the City of Ladies was written as a refutation of popular misogynistic tracts.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Pisan heavily used this author's On Famous Women as a source for The Book of the City of Ladies. In this author's most famous work, a group of ten companions tells stories while fleeing the plague in Florence.

[B11] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man attempted to defend himself from criticism of his most famous work by including the story of a man who lived on a mountain with his son, who had never been off the mountain and was fascinated by women when he finally left. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Name this author who created the storytelling Panfilo, Pampinea, and Filostrato in the Decameron.
  Part 2 (ans: patient Griselda):
    This "patient" character in the Decameron is tested by her husband Gualtieri, who pretends to kill their children and marry his twelve-year-old daughter.
  Part 3 (ans: he can ignore the day's topic while telling his story [accept equivalents]):
    Description acceptable. The last of the ten storytellers from the Decameron, Dioneo, had this special right when telling stories because of his wit.

[B12] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a letter describes opening one of this writer's books to a passage about people who wonder at the "mighty waves of the sea . . . but themselves they consider not." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saint Augustine of Hippo [or Aurelius Augustinus]):
    Name this person depicted in a set of dialogues called the Secretum, in which he frequently becomes exasperated while discussing Christian faith with the author.
  Part 2 (ans: Petrarch's ascent of Mont Ventoux [accept obvious equivalents of Petrarch climbing Mont Ventoux; prompt on answers mentioning mountain-climbing that don't name Ventoux]):
    The author of the Secretum, Petrarch, wrote about reading Augustine's Confessions while performing this action. It is often claimed, almost certainly falsely, that this action was the first of its kind since antiquity to be undertaken to see a view.
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Dionigi, the Augustinian monk to whom Petrarch addressed the Mont Ventoux letter, also mentored this author of a set of 100 tales that includes the story of Patient Griselda.

[B13] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this work, Saladin tries to trick the Jewish Melchizedek by asking him which of the three Abrahamic religions is correct. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Decameron):
    Name this work which includes a tale where Giotto and Messer Forese da Rabatta make fun of each other after traveling to Northern Tuscany. This story collection inspired Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Decameron is by this Italian man who penned On Famous Women and was a student of Petrarch.
  Part 3 (ans: The Golden Ass [Accept Asinus Aureus; or The Metamorphoses]):
    The last tale on the fifth day of the Decameron by Dionea is about Pietro de Vionciolo and his wife, which is actually taken from this Latin work from the second century AD. In this Apuleius novel, Socrates dies after his heart is replaced by a sponge.

[B14] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man wrote La Caccia di Diana, a catalogue of Neapolitan women, as well as the Teseida, which provided the source for Chaucer's "The Knight's Tale." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    Name this Italian humanist, the author of The Decameron and On Famous Women.
  Part 2 (ans: Troilus and Cressida [prompt on partial answers]):
    Boccaccio's Il Filostrato tells the story of these two lovers from classical antiquity, who also inspired a poem by Chaucer and a tragedy by William Shakespeare.
  Part 3 (ans: Fiammetta):
    Many of Boccaccio's works, among them the Teseida, Il Filostrato, and The Decameron, feature a woman with this name, thought to be an alias for Maria d'Aquino, a noblewoman with whom Boccaccio was infatuated.

[B15] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This author wrote her most famous work in response to the misogyny found in the Romance of the Rose. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    Name this female author attached to the French royal court who imagined building a city full of virtuous women in The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    De Pizan is believed to have based the stories found in the Book of the City of Ladies on this author's On Famous Women. He also wrote The Decameron.
  Part 3 (ans: Lady Reason):
    In Book I of The City of Ladies, this figure aids de Pizan and building the city's foundation. In the two other books, de Pizan is aided by her allies Rectitude and Justice.

[B16] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author attacked Jean de Meun in the proto-feminist treatise "Letter to the God of Love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christine de Pizan):
    Name this medieval French poet who also responded to Jean de Meun's misogyny in her most famous work, The Book of the City of Ladies.
  Part 2 (ans: rose):
    Jean de Meun completed a poem begun by Guillaume de Lorris named after this type of flower. In Romeo and Juliet, Juliet says that this flower "by any other name would smell as sweet."
  Part 3 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    One influence on Christine de Pizan was this Italian author of On Famous Women, a collection of biographies of women.

[B17] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This work closes with the tale of Griselda, whose husband pretends to have the children she has given him killed as part of an elaborate joke that lasts a period of years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Decameron):
    Name this collection.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Boccaccio):
    The Decameron was written by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: The Elegy of Lady Fiammetta [or Elegia di Madonna Fiammetta]):
    Giovanni Boccaccio wrote this novel in the style of a confession of the protagonist's love for the merchant Panfilo.
