=== STOCK CLUES: Antonio Vivaldi ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 80 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi [accept Vivaldi week] (The first sentence refers to Benedetto Marcello's Il teatro alla moda, which merged Vivaldi and singer Caterina Canteli into the persona of "Aldiviva Licante." The court composer in the third sentence is J. S. Bach.)
  - A satire published under a partial anagram of this composer's name teaches people like poets, composers, singers, and female singers' mothers how to create modern opera. [PWR]
  - This composer's name was fraudulently attached to a collection of musette sonatas by Nicolas Chedeville titled The Faithful Shepherd.
  - This composer's opus 3 concerti were transcribed for keyboard by a court composer in Weimar.
  - In 1939, interest in this composer's music was (*) revived by Alfredo Casella's "Week" in his honor.
  - In 2012, Daniel Hope premiered a minimalist "recomposition" of one of this composer's works by Max Richter.
  - This composer taught violin and mandolin at the Ospedale della Pieta, an orphanage for whose choir he wrote his D major Gloria.
  - For 10 points, name this Venetian "Red Priest" who wrote The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi (Kim sang "Agitata da due venti" as Kimchilia Bartoli.)
  - Kangmin Justin Kim's drag alter ego sang an aria by this composer, parodying Cecilia  Bartoli's crazed coloratura in "Agitata da due venti." This composer wrote an opera about emperor Anastasio's jealousy of the title peasant that contains the signature aria of the breakdancing countertenor Jakub Jozef Orlinski, "Vedro con mio diletto." This composer of Griselda included Geminiano Giacomelli's aria "Sposa son disprezzata" in his pasticcio Bajazet.
  - The (*) sinfonias from this composer's operas Il Giustino and Dorilla in Tempe feature transposed versions of the melody "pickup E, G-sharp, G-sharp, G-sharp, F-sharp, E, high B," which he recycled for a concerto in which the violinist's trilled Bs represent birdsong.
  - For 10 points, what director of the Ospedale della Pieta wrote The Four Seasons? [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 FEMTO (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio [accept Antonio de Cabezon; accept Antonio Soler; accept Antonio Vivaldi]
  - A composer with this first name accompanied Philip II on his travels throughout Europe, where he influenced English virginal composers with his variations on themes like canto del Caballero. [PWR]
  - A composer with this first name was called "the Devil dressed as a priest" for his controversial treatise The Key to Modulation. [PWR]
  - Most of the works of a composer with this first name were posthumously published by his son Hernando; that blind organist had the surname de Cabezon. [PWR]
  - A composer with this first name wrote six concertos for two organs and around (*) 150 keyboard sonatas. [PWR]
  - Most of Bach's Weimar concertos transcribe pieces by a composer with this first name for keyboard.
  - Composers with this first name include one surnamed Soler and another who wrote a C major mandolin concerto for a prodigy he taught at an all-girls school.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the director of the Ospedale della Pieta. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi (The oratorio in the second clue is Juditha Triumphans.)
  - A G minor flute concerto by this composer with six alternating largo and presto movements includes movements titled for "ghosts" and "sleep." Women sing all the roles of this composer's only surviving oratorio, which allegorizes a military victory at Corfu.
  - Violent sixteenth notes on open G strings open the Presto finale of a concerto by this composer.
  - A set of six flute concerti by this composer includes pieces titled The Goldfinch and The Storm at Sea.
  - This composer's Mandolin Concerto in C major is often paired with a collection that includes a piece that uses a two-note short-long viola motif to represent a barking dog.
  - This composer published a collection of violin concerti in The Contest Between Harmony and Invention.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian composer of The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ospedale della Pieta [or Hospital of Mercy; prompt on Antonio Vivaldi's orphanage or convent by asking "what was its name?"] (The composers in the first four clues are Agata della Pieta, Anna Bon, Anna Giro, and Francesco Gasparini.)
  - A reconstructed setting of Ecce nunc by a protegee of this location was premiered by the Australian Chamber Choir in 2022. [PWR]
  - A protegee of this location was immediately hired in Bayreuth as a "chamber music virtuosa," where she wrote many flute sonatas and divertimenti.
  - The opera Domina in Tempe was the first collaboration between a protegee of this location and a composer who was there due to a dispensation from mass for asthma. [PWR]
  - The composer of Tigrane also taught Domenico Scarlatti while supervising this institution. [PWR]
  - A visiting poet wrote that "angels [dared] hover near" a (*) mandolin prodigy at this institution who was featured in pieces such as one composer's RV 425.
  - That composer wrote two concerti per month for this institution's figlie di coro , who stayed behind a metal grate when they premiered pieces such as L'estro armonico.
  - For 10 points, name this Venetian orphanage whose students learned music from Antonio Vivaldi. [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi
  - An oratorio by this composer allegorizes a military victory by Johann Matthias von der Schulenburg at Corfu. [PWR]
  - This composer's solo vocal music, such as "Cessate, omai cessate," (ches-SA-te, oh-ma-EE ches-SA-te) was defended in a book on his chamber cantatas by musicologist Michael Talbot.
  - The sixth movement of this composer's most popular choral piece is scored for soprano, continuo, and oboe or violin alone, and is a setting of the words (*) "Domine deus, rex coelestis" .
  - An alto plays Holofernes in his only surviving oratorio, Juditha Triumphans, which is numbered 644 in the RV catalog of his works and was written while he worked at the Ospedale della Pieta orphanage for girls.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian baroque composer of a Gloria in D Major, as well as The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi and Johann Sebastian Bach [prompt on partial answers]
  - Two answers required.
  - The interest of one of these composers in the works of the other was as a 'harmonic laboratory', according to a work titled for one of these composers and the Patterns of Invention.
  - The only four-harpsichord concerto by one of these composers was a transcription of one of the other's works, one of 22 keyboard transcriptions made by them from the other's violin concertos.
  - Those works were written after Johann Ernst of Saxe-Weimar brought the latter's first set of published concertos, L'estro armonico, from Venice.
  - One of these composers wrote a concerto featuring flauti d'echo, while the other imitated a dog barking in a programmatic concerto.
  - For 10 points, name these two composers, one of the Four Seasons, the other of the Brandenburg Concertos. [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi
  - Diego Fasolis and Fabio Ceresa have collaborated to produce several of this composer's operas; most recently, a pastoral opera in which this composer cast his longtime collaborator Anna Giro. [PWR]
  - Though this composer claimed to have written 94 operas, less than half of them survive, with many partly reconstructed thanks to Alberto Gentili's discovery of his manuscripts. [PWR]
  - Like Handel, this composer of Dorilla in Tempe wrote a dramma per musica adaptation of Ariosto's epic poem (*) Orlando Furioso. [PWR]
  - The librettist Anna Bon was one of this composer's orphaned pupils at the Ospedale della Pieta .
  - He is best-known today for a set of orchestral pieces which depict buzzing flies, barking dogs, and thunderstorms, each accompanied by a sonnet.
  - For 10 points, name this "Red Priest" who composed The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi
  - This composer wrote the virtuoso sacred motet "In furore iustissimae irae." A 12-section choral work by this composer opens with trumpet, oboe, and strings leaping between two octave Ds in a low-high-low-low pattern and was lost until the 1920s. [PWR]
  - Cellos open a piece by this composer with a bar of slow staccato eighth notes on F, then higher strings join in each successive bar to build up the chord F, G, D-flat, and B-flat with quick mordents. [PWR]
  - In 1939, Alfredo Casella popularized this composer's setting of the (*) Gloria in D major. [PWR]
  - This composer's Mandolin Concerto in C major is often paired with four concerti grossi he published with sonnets.
  - Rapid ascending minor scales and tremolos depict thunderstorms in the first two works in this composer's collection The Contest Between Harmony and Invention.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian Baroque composer of The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T10] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi
  - This composer's supposed authorship of a serenata titled "Andromeda Liberata" caused a feud between Olivier Foures (oh-LIV-yay foo-RAY) and Michael Talbot, the latter of whom is considered the preeminent scholar of this composer.
  - This composer's only concerto featuring trumpets is his Concerto for Two Trumpets in C Major.
  - The two surviving settings of this composer's Gloria are entries 588 and 589 in the Ryom-Verzeichnis catalogue of his work.
  - He established the norm for the ritornello form, and he marked the viola section of one of his violin concertos with the phrase "the barking dog." This composer collected twelve concertos, including Pleasure and The Hunt, in a set of pieces titled The Contest between Harmony and Invention.
  - For 10 points, name this "Red Priest" who composed The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T11] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi
  - Previously unknown works by this composer were featured at the Concerti Tigulliani organized by Olga Rudge and Ezra Pound, who helped popularize his music.
  - Fritz Kreisler wrote a C major concerto that he falsely attributed to this composer.
  - Alfredo Casella organized a week in 1939 honoring him, reviving his now-popular Gloria.
  - His works were most thoroughly catalogued by Peter Ryom, who gave them their RV numbers.
  - Bach's Concerto for Four Harpsichords is an adaptation of the tenth piece in this composer's L'Estro Armonico.
  - He imitated the barking of a dog in the first of the programmatic violin concerti that open his The Contest Between Harmony and Invention.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian violinist of the Baroque era who composed The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T12] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi [or Antonio Lucio Vivaldi]
  - A concerto by this composer was reworked by J.S. [PWR]
  - Bach into Concerto for Four Harpsichords.
  - After Torelli, this composer first innovated with the ritornello form by shortening inner ritornello sections and introducing modulation in them, rather than solely in the solo sections, as well as returning to the tonic in the last ritornello. [PWR]
  - His most popular sacred work is a setting of the (*) Gloria in excelsis deo, in D major. [PWR]
  - The last movement of a popular piece by him imitates the drones of bagpipes with sustained notes in the low strings.
  - In another popular piece, he used violin pizzicatos to suggest rain "plopping".
  - Those popular pieces by this composer of the Concerto Alla Rustica are found in Contest Between Harmony and Invention.
  - For 10 points, name this Baroque, Italian composer of the Four Seasons. [GIVE]

[T13] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Antonio Vivaldi
  - A work by this composer begins with the strings building up the following chord in ascending order, with each pitch played eight times before the next entry: F, G, D-flat, B-flat. [PWR]
  - This composer's music is organized in the Ryom-Verzeichnis catalog system.
  - Ferdinand III was the dedicate of his set of twelve Concerto Grossi for 1, 2 and 4 solo violins. [PWR]
  - A collection of this composer includes concertos titled The (*) Sea Storm and The Hunt. [PWR]
  - Another collection by him is titled L'Estro armonico.
  - Depictions of a cuckoo, a hailstorm, and a shepherd's dog are included a series of violin concertos by him that were accompanied by sonnets that he wrote.
  - For 10 points, name this Italian Baroque composer whose Contest Between Harmony and Invention includes The Four Seasons. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In response to a sarcastic cable from New York Times critic Olin Downes asking if a number of "lost classics" had this property, the performer of those pieces answered in the affirmative. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: they were actually composed by Fritz Kreisler [accept forgeries or hoaxes or mystifications by Fritz Kreisler; accept any answer indicating that Fritz Kreisler composed the pieces in question; prompt on forgeries or hoaxes or mystifications by asking "who actually composed them?"]):
    Give this common property of Gaetano Pugnani's Praeludium and Allegro, Francois Francoeur's Sicilienne and Rigaudon, and an Allegretto by Luigi Boccherini. A description is acceptable.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Tartini):
    Among Kreisler's other forgeries are some Variations on a Theme by Corelli attributed to this composer, who best known for writing a difficult violin sonata inspired by a demonic dream.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Kreisler attributed a Violin Concerto in C major to this man, as if he hadn't composed enough violin concerti already. Four violin concerti appear in this composer's The Contest Between Harmony and Invention.

[B2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Notable members of this institution included Agata and Santa, the latter of whom served as orchestra director under the leadership of Francesco Gasparini and Nicola Porpora. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ospedale della Pieta [prompt on Ospedale or della Pieta]):
    Name this institution, whose musical ensembles were hidden behind a metal grill to shield them from visitors. Musicians like Anna Bon joined this institution by paying tuition.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi [or Antonio Lucio Vivaldi]):
    The most famous composer who taught at the Ospedale della Pieta was this "red-haired priest," who composed over 500 violin concertos including The Four Seasons.
  Part 3 (ans: Esterhazy family):
    In 1762, Anna Bon moved from the Ospedale della Pieta to Eisenstadt to work for this family, whose later member, Prince Nikolaus, patronized a composer who wrote baryton trios for him and a piece nicknamed "Sunrise."

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Answer the following about the history of foundling hospitals in Europe, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Portugal [or Kingdom of Portugal; or Reino de Portugal]):
    In 1783, this kingdom's queen Maria I proclaimed that all of its towns must have a foundling hospital. This kingdom established the Casa Pia to educate children in the aftermath of a 1755 earthquake in its capital.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This composer trained an all-female orchestra of foundlings at the Ospedale della Pieta in Venice, where he may have premiered his D major Gloria.
  Part 3 (ans: Esposito [or D'Esposito; or Degli Esposti; or Esposti; or Esposto; or Sposito; accept Esposito or Exposito] (The surname means "exposed," either to the elements or to the protection of Madonna.)):
    In Italy's Campania region, hospitals traditionally gave foundlings this Italian surname because of the condition they had after being abandoned in "foundling wheels." Today, this is the commonest surname in Naples.

[B4] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The main theme of a concerto for this instrument is built from the quick descending motif F-sharp, E, long D. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: lute (The English composer is John Dowland.)):
    Name this instrument played by Italian composers Vincenzo Galilei and Francesco Canova da Milano. A descending motif opens an English composer's "Flow My Tears," which is for this instrument.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This Venetian composer's D major RV 93 is perhaps the most famous concerto for lute. The hundreds of concerti by this "Red Priest" include his The Four Seasons.
  Part 3 (ans: Caccini [accept Giulio Caccini or Francesca Caccini; prompt on Giulio Romano or Romolo]):
    The lute's theorbo variant developed from usage pioneered by a member of the Florentine Camerata with this surname and first name Giulio. His daughter Francesca was a prolific composer and lutenist with this surname.

[B5] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: After asking whether her love interest has ever heard an orchestra perform, a woman in a film demonstrates by playing a piece by this composer against the backdrop of a burning fireplace. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi (The music played is "Summer" from The Four Seasons.)):
    Name this composer. At the end of Portrait of a Lady on Fire, the camera cuts from Marianne and zooms-in on a teary-eyed Heloise sitting in a theater box while this composer's music plays in the background.
  Part 2 (ans: Greece [or the Hellenic Republic; or Elliniki Dimokratia] (The unnamed filmmaker is Yorgos Lanthimos.)):
    A Vivaldi violin concerto accompanies music by Handel and Purcell in the Baroque soundtrack to the period drama The Favourite, which was directed by a filmmaker from this country. A composer from this country, Vangelis, created the soundtrack to the film Chariots of Fire.
  Part 3 (ans: Abbas Kiarostami (The film is Life, and Nothing More...)):
    Vivaldi's Concerto for Two Horns accompanies a shot of a distant funeral in a film by this director, in which a filmmaker and his son drive around the countryside while searching for two actors in the aftermath of an earthquake.

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about 18th-century opera in the Americas, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi [or Antonio Lucio Vivaldi]):
    This composer's rival Domenico Zipoli wrote San Ignacio de Loyola as a Jesuit missionary in Paraguay. This composer's own works include the 1733 opera Motezuma, a D-major Gloria, and the collection L'estro armonico.
  Part 2 (ans: Adonis [accept Venus and Adonis] (Tomas de Torrejon y Velasco composed La purpura de la rosa, or The Blood of the Rose.)):
    This character's death ends the opera La purpura de la rosa, which premiered in Lima in 1701. Henry Purcell's ("PUR-sull's") Dido and Aeneas is modeled on John Blow's opera about this character and his lover.
  Part 3 (ans: The Beggar's Opera (by John Gay)):
    Popular in the colonial United States was this satirical opera that features folk songs like "Over the Hills and Far Away." Near this opera's end, a condemned man laments his fate to the tune of "Greensleeves."

[B7] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This genre, which is usually set in 6/8 or 12/8 time, was originally popularized as a form of pastoral aria in Alessandro Scarlatti's operas Telemaco and Griselda. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: sicilienne [or siciliana or siciliano]):
    Name this genre. A piece in this genre transcribed for cello and piano by Gabriel Faure was taken from his incidental music to Pelleas and Melisande.
  Part 2 (ans: Mozart's piano concertos):
    Composer and genre required. Faure composed a cadenza for one of these pieces, the preceding one of which includes a second movement siciliana in the key of F-sharp minor. The twenty-sixth of these pieces is nicknamed "Coronation."
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Another siciliana appears in a Bach-transcribed concerto grosso by this composer, who included it in his collection L'estro armonico. This composer wrote The Four Seasons.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Blind Celtic harpist Turlough O'Carolan ("TUR-lock oh-CAROL-in") is said to have been challenged to perform the fifth piece from this collection on the spot; he did so perfectly, despite never having actually heard it before. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L'estro armonico):
    Name this set of twelve concertos, each of which is scored for four violins, two violas, cello, and continuo. Bach transcribed three of these concertos for solo harpsichord and two of them for organ.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    About a decade after publishing L'estro armonico, this Italian composer wrote another set of twelve violin concertos, the first four of which are called The Four Seasons.
  Part 3 (ans: Gloria in D):
    Vivaldi composed this setting of text from the Latin Mass for the Ospedale della Pieta. It reworks material from a similar piece by Giovanni Maria Ruggieri ("roo-JAIR-ee") in its "Cum Sancto Spiritu" section.

[B9] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Though many forms exist, a common version of this musical motif begins with a [read slowly] "minor one, major five, minor one, major flat seven" progression. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: la folia [or follies of Spain; or folies d'Espagne]):
    Name this Renaissance-era musical theme of possible Iberian origin. One of the most well-known themes throughout Europe prior to the 19th century, this theme has been used for variations by Marin Marais, Jean-Baptiste Lully, and Antonio Salieri.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of Sweden (the manuscript is the Cancionero de Upsala)):
    The folia theme was used in this country for "Sinclairvisan", a patriotic tune about murdered diplomat Malcolm Sinclair. It's not Italy, but an early Venetian manuscript of Spanish music that lists many villancicos ["viyan-sikos"] is found at the Carolina Rediviva in this country, whose other old books include the Duben collection and the Codex Argenteus.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    The final entry in this composer's Opus 1 is a trio sonata for two violins and basso continuo on the folia theme. Other famous violin works by this Italian Baroque composer include a set of 12 violin concertos in The Contest Between Harmony and Invention.

[B10] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer wrote a concerto in G major for the unusual combination of two mandolins. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Name this Italian composer, who wrote brief poems as footnotes to the violin concertos which comprise his series The Four Seasons.
  Part 2 (ans: ritornello):
    The outer movements of Vivaldi's Double Concerto for Two Mandolins are structured around these repeating sections, which were commonly used as instrumental refrains in baroque operas and concertos.
  Part 3 (ans: basso continuo [or throughbass; or thoroughbass]):
    The harmony in Vivaldi's concertos is sustained by this type of accompaniment, which was ubiquitous in the baroque era and typically consisted of an instrumental bass line written in figured bass notation, so a keyboard or lute player could realize chords above it.

[B11] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The melody of a piece for this instrument by Francisco Tarrega, the Grand Vals, was used in a popular Nokia ringtone. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: guitar [or guitarra; accept classical guitar or acoustic guitar]):
    Name this string instrument of Spanish origin. Its music often accompanies flamenco dancing along with palmas, or hand clapping.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Unlike his Mandolin Concerto in C major, this Baroque composer's Lute Concerto in D major is usually played today on the guitar. His short Double Trumpet Concerto in C major, RV 537, is one of the earliest solo brass pieces.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Sor [or Ferran Sor; or Fernando Sors or Fernando Sort or Fernando Sorts]):
    This master Spanish guitarist, who refused to play with his ring finger or fingernails, composed Variations on a Theme of Mozart. His book Methode pour la Guitare ("may-TUD poor la ghee-TAR") was one of the most popular pedagogical books of the 19th century.

[B12] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work's first movement contains a passage where the soloist plays two descending C minor arpeggios and then two descending C minor scales. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Winter from the Four Seasons (or RV 297)):
    Name this concerto that begins with the soloist playing a sequence of trills on the consecutive eighth notes B flat, A flat, D flat.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Winter is the last movement of this Venetian composer's Four Seasons.
  Part 3 (ans: Buenos Aires):
    Astor Piazzolla wrote a work usually translated in English as the "Four Seasons of" this South American capital city. In Piazzolla's version, the first movement is Summer, as opposed to Spring.

[B13] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The eighth movement of this work, "Fac, ut ardeat cor meum," sets the two featured voices in fugue-like counterpoint with the strings and each other. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Stabat Mater):
    Name this work, a set of 12 solos and duets for soprano, alto, and string accompaniment, that takes its text from a medieval religious poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Giovanni Battista Pergolesi):
    Stabat Mater was written by this Italian composer. Igor Stravinsky used some of his works in his Pulcinella ballet. This composer's opera La Serva Padrona was so popular that it led to many forged works after his death in the so-called "war of the buffoons."
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This other Italian composer and violinist wrote a Stabat Mater for alto and string orchestra. His other vocal works are less-performed, although he wrote a cantata called Dixit Dominus that was only discovered in 2005.

[B14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two of these instruments unusually pitched in G are designated in the score as "flauti d'echo" in fourth Brandenburg Concerto. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: recorder):
    Name this duct flute whose popularity peaked during the Baroque era. Today, this instrument is mainly used for children's music education purposes, because its head works like a whistle, making it easy to play.
  Part 2 (ans: Atys):
    Recorders engage in a dialogue with a string band at the start of the third act "Sommeil," in which the goddess Cybele puts the title character to sleep, in this tragedie en musique by Jean-Baptiste Lully.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi [or Antonio Lucio Vivaldi]):
    This composer's F major flute concerto The Storm at Sea, which is distinct from his violin concerto with the same title, is often performed as a recorder concerto. His five actual recorder concerti are catalogued as RV 441-445.

[B15] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: On account of his hair, this composer was sometimes known as "the Red Priest" and his works were arranged in the RV catalogue by Peter Ryom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Name this Italian baroque composer, who included the Four Seasons in his Contest between Harmony and Invention.
  Part 2 (ans: L'estro armonico [accept The Harmonic Invention]):
    Vivaldi also composed this collection of 12 concerti for string instruments. Each concerto in this collection was scored for four violins, two violas, cello and basso continuo.
  Part 3 (ans: Bassoon):
    Vivaldi also wrote several concerti for this instrument, for which Carl Maria von Weber wrote an F major concerto and Andante e Rondo Ungarese.

[B16] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this work, a flute imitates birds, while horns represent the villainous title animal. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Peter and the Wolf):
    Name this "symphonic fairy tale" for orchestra and narrator by Sergei Prokofiev. The bouncy string section depicts the other title character of this work.
  Part 2 (ans: Symphony No. 6 [accept Pastoral Symphony]):
    The composer of this piece indicated that the flute at the end of the second movement imitates a nightingale, while the clarinet imitates a cuckoo bird. That movement of this symphony is subtitled "Scene by the Brook."
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This composer wrote a concerto for flute nicknamed "The Goldfinch," as well as one called "The Storm at Sea." This composer published another concerto called "The Storm at Sea" in a collection of 12 concerti for violin.

[B17] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer based his orchestral suite Rossiniana and his ballet La boutique fantasque on Rossini's piano music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ottorino Respighi):
    Name this 20th-century Italian composer who orchestrated his 3 Preludes on Gregorian Melodies for Church Windows. He also composed Trittico botticelliano and a trilogy of symphonic poems.
  Part 2 (ans: guitar):
    Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco wrote 24 preludes and fugues for two of these Well-Tempered instruments after studying Sor's Mozart Variations. Ginastera imitated this instrument at the end of his first Argentine Dance and used folk music in his sonata for it.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Alfredo Casella organized a weeklong 1939 festival reviving this composer's music. The anti-modernist critic Alceo ("al-CHAY-oh") Toni arranged this Baroque violinist's Four Seasons for piano four-hands.

[B18] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer's motet Nulla in mundo pax sincera for soprano solo has been performed by Emma Kirkby and Jane Edwards. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi [or Antonio Lucio Vivaldi]):
    Name this composer of a C major concerto for mandolin and a D major concerto for lute.
  Part 2 (ans: The Four Seasons [or Le quattro stagioni]):
    Vivaldi is best-known for this set of concertos found in his collection The Contest Between Harmony and Invention about the title divisions of the year.
  Part 3 (ans: Ottorino Respighi):
    This composer's Ancient Airs and Dances are based on Renaissance and Baroque pieces for lute, viol, and guitar. Another of his pieces depicts the Villa Borghese, a catacomb, the Janiculum, and the Appian Way.

[B19] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Twentieth century compositions structured in this form include works by Bloch as well as one by Stravinsky subtitled "Dumbarton Oaks". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Concerto Grosso [accept Concerti Grossi; do not accept or prompt on "concerto" alone]):
    Name this form of Baroque music in which the musical material is passed between a small group of soloists, known as the concertino, and a full orchestra, known as the ripieno.
  Part 2 (ans: Arcangelo Corelli):
    One of the first major composers to use the term "concerto grosso" was this Italian. His Opus 6 is a set of twelve concerti grossi, including one in G minor commonly known as the Christmas Concerto.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    The term "concerto grosso" is often used to describe the works in an early collection, L'estro Armonico by this composer. Among this composer's other works is The Contest between Harmony and Invention.

[B20] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these composers who were also violinists. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This Italian composer's The Contest Between Harmony and Invention includes a group of programmatic violin concerti called The Four Seasons.
  Part 2 (ans: Arcangelo Corelli):
    This Baroque Italian composer wrote four sets of twelve trio sonatas, but is most famous for his Op. 6 set of twelve concerti grossi.
  Part 3 (ans: Louis Spohr (or Ludwig Spohr)):
    This nineteenth-century German composer of the opera Jessonda wrote a popular single-movement Violin Concerto No. 8 in A minor.

[B21] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer of L'estro armonico gained the nickname "Red Priest" after being ordained, and worked at a convent orphanage called the Ospedale della Pieta. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Name this Italian Baroque composer who composed violin concertos for each time period of his Four Seasons.
  Part 2 (ans: The Contest between Harmony and Invention [or Il cimento dell'armonia e dell'inventione]):
    The Four Seasons is part of this larger collection of twelve violin concertos, which also includes "La tempesta di mare," or "The Sea Storm."
  Part 3 (ans: "Gloria in excelsis Deo"):
    Vivaldi's RV 589 is a setting of this hymn for chorus and small orchestra, starting with a jaunty D major rendering of the title phrase before the "Et in terra pax" section in B minor. It ends with the "Cum sancto spiritu" fugue.

[B22] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Not all famous Baroque composers were from Germany or France. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This composer from Italy notably taught violin at an orphanage in Venice. Compositionally, he may be best known for his The Contest between Harmony and Invention, which contains "The Four Seasons."
  Part 2 (ans: Henry Purcell):
    This composer is probably best known for an opera whose best aria repeats the line "Remember me, but ah, forget my fate."
  Part 3 (ans: Dieterich Buxtehude):
    This Danish composer wrote the cantata cycle The Limbs of Our Jesus in which each cantata is addressed to a different part of Jesus's body. This composer may be better known for his organ works such as Passacaglia in D minor.

[B23] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The period instrument ensemble Il Giardino Armonico has received acclaim for their recordings of this man's double and triple concertos on their album Il Proteo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    Name this Italian baroque composer of The Four Seasons.
  Part 2 (ans: bassoon):
    Vivaldi also wrote several concertos for this woodwind instrument, for which Mozart wrote one concerto in B-flat. In Dukas' The Sorcerer's Apprentice, this instrument introduces the scherzo theme of the walking brooms.
  Part 3 (ans: Gloria in excelcis Deo):
    Vivaldi's most popular choral composition is arguably a setting of this part of the Ordinary of the Latin Mass, which follows the Kyrie in the Catholic liturgy.

[B24] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Neptune agrees to leave the title character and his father Ulisse alone in one of his operas, while in another the rightful king of Pontus assassinates Farnace to win his throne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alessandro Scarlatti [prompt on Scarlatti; do not accept or prompt on "Domenico Scarlatti"]):
    Name this Baroque composer of Telemaco and Il Pompeo, closely associated with the Neapolitan school of opera. He is the father of a composer of 555 keyboard sonatas.
  Part 2 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This composer, like Scarlatti, also wrote an opera about Griselda, but he may be better known for four concerti found in The Contest Between Harmony and Invention.
  Part 3 (ans: Il Mitridate Eupatore [or Mithridates Eupator]):
    In this Scarlatti opera, described previously, a king of Pontus returns to the throne with the help of his wife Issicratea.

[B25] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Italian composers.
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Vivaldi):
    This Baroque composer, nicknamed "The Red Priest," wrote sonnets that accompany the set of violin concertos that comprise his most famous work, The Four Seasons.
  Part 2 (ans: Domenico Scarlatti):
    This Baroque composer wrote 555 solo keyboard sonatas, including a notable collection of thirty pieces called the Essercizi. His father, Alessandro, was also a famous composer.
  Part 3 (ans: Ferruccio Busoni):
    This twentieth-century piano composer pioneered electric music in works such as The Turandot Suite. He drew inspiration from Bach for many pieces including his Fantasia Contrappuntistica, which is an extended variation on the final fugue from The Art of the Fugue.
