# American Drama
Dion Boucicault | Irish-American actor-manager and prolific melodramatist; wrote The Octoroon and the Irish drama The Colleen Bawn.
The Octoroon | Boucicault melodrama set on the Terrebonne plantation; Zoe, one-eighth Black, cannot marry the man she loves under slavery-era law.
Our American Cousin | Tom Taylor's comedy of the bumbling Lord Dundreary; the play Lincoln was watching at Ford's Theatre when assassinated.
David Belasco | Turn-of-the-century producer-director famed for hyper-realistic staging; wrote the source plays behind Puccini's Madama Butterfly and The Girl of the Golden West.
Susan Glaspell | Provincetown Players co-founder; wrote Trifles and won the Pulitzer for Alison's House, based on Emily Dickinson's life.
Trifles | Glaspell's one-act in which farmwives Mrs. Peters and Mrs. Hale piece together Minnie Wright's motive for murder from kitchen "trifles."
Elmer Rice | Expressionist playwright of The Adding Machine; also won the Pulitzer for the tenement drama Street Scene, later a Kurt Weill opera.
The Adding Machine | Rice's expressionist play in which the clerk Mr. Zero murders his boss after being replaced by the title device.
Machinal | Sophie Treadwell's expressionist play, loosely based on the Ruth Snyder case, of a stifled "Young Woman" who murders her husband.
Maxwell Anderson | Verse dramatist who drew on the Sacco and Vanzetti case for Winterset; also wrote Both Your Houses and, with Kurt Weill, Lost in the Stars.
Winterset | Anderson's verse drama fictionalizing Sacco and Vanzetti: Mio Romagna seeks to clear his executed father, opposed by the murderer Trock Estrella.
Robert Sherwood | Algonquin Round Table playwright and FDR speechwriter; three-time Drama Pulitzer winner for Idiot's Delight, Abe Lincoln in Illinois, and There Shall Be No Night.
Orson Welles | Directed the all-Black "Voodoo" Macbeth and The Cradle Will Rock for the Federal Theatre Project before Citizen Kane and War of the Worlds.
method acting | Lee Strasberg's Group Theatre-rooted technique using "affective memory"; associated with Odets's Waiting for Lefty and the Actors Studio.
The Man Who Came to Dinner | Kaufman and Hart comedy: acerbic critic Sheridan Whiteside, injured en route to dinner, torments his Ohio hosts as houseguest.
Our Town | Wilder's play narrated by the Stage Manager in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire; Emily Webb marries George Gibbs, dies, and relives her twelfth birthday.
- the Stage Manager = stage manager -> The Stage Manager | Narrates Grover's Corners, marries George and Emily, and answers "the saints and poets, maybe" to Emily's question.
- Emily Webb | Our Town's heroine, who marries George Gibbs, dies in childbirth, and relives her twelfth birthday from the grave.
The Skin of Our Teeth | Wilder's fourth-wall-breaking allegory of the Antrobus family of Excelsior, New Jersey, surviving an ice age, flood, and war with maid Sabina.
William Inge = William Motter Inge | "Playwright of the Midwest": Picnic, Bus Stop, and Come Back, Little Sheba; also wrote the screenplay for Splendor in the Grass.
- Picnic | Inge's Pulitzer winner: drifter Hal Carter disrupts a small Kansas town's Labor Day picnic, romancing Madge Owens.
- Bus Stop | Inge play snowbound at a Kansas diner: nightclub "chantoosie" Cherie fends off cowboy Bo Decker with sheriff Will Masters's help.
William Saroyan | Armenian-American writer who declined the Pulitzer for The Time of Your Life, his play set in a waterfront saloon.
The Time of Your Life | Saroyan's Pulitzer-declined play set among barflies in Nick's Pacific Street Saloon in San Francisco.
Inherit the Wind | Lawrence and Lee's fictionalized Scopes "Monkey" Trial: attorneys Henry Drummond and Matthew Harrison Brady clash over teaching evolution.
Dutchman | Amiri Baraka's play set on a New York subway car: the white Lula seduces then fatally stabs the Black passenger Clay.
Neil Simon | Prolific Broadway comedy writer: The Odd Couple's Oscar and Felix, Barefoot in the Park, the autobiographical Brighton Beach trilogy, and the Pulitzer-winning Lost in Yonkers.
- The Odd Couple | Simon's comedy pairing slovenly Oscar Madison with fussy, neurotic Felix Ungar as mismatched roommates.
David Alan Mamet | Full name of David Mamet, Pulitzer-winning playwright of Glengarry Glen Ross, American Buffalo, and Oleanna.
Terrence McNally | Playwright of Love! Valour! Compassion! and Master Class, on Maria Callas; also wrote librettos for Ragtime and Kiss of the Spider Woman.
- Love! Valour! Compassion! | McNally play following eight gay men through a summer of weekends at a country house upstate.
Tracy Letts | Steppenwolf-affiliated playwright and actor; won the Pulitzer for August: Osage County.
- August: Osage County | Letts's Pulitzer winner: the pill-addicted matriarch Violet Weston and her daughters clash after patriarch Beverly's disappearance and death.
Tony Kushner | Playwright of the two-part AIDS-crisis epic Angels in America; also adapted Angels for HBO and wrote Caroline, or Change.
- Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes = Angels in America | Prophet-despite-himself Prior Walter, closeted Joe Pitt, Roy Cohn, and an Angel crashing through the ceiling.
- AIDS | Disease driving Angels in America's plot, as Prior Walter's diagnosis and Roy Cohn's denial of his own.
- angels | Common-link keyed to the Angel who crashes through Prior Walter's ceiling, heralding him as a reluctant prophet in Angels in America.
- Roy Cohn | Real-life McCarthy-era lawyer fictionalized in Angels in America, dying of AIDS while denying he has it.
Larry Kramer | AIDS activist who founded ACT UP and Gay Men's Health Crisis; dramatized the epidemic's early years in The Normal Heart.
The Normal Heart | Kramer's autobiographical AIDS-crisis drama; Ned Weeks battles indifference while founding a gay health organization in early-1980s New York.
Paula Vogel | Won the Pulitzer for How I Learned to Drive, on Li'l Bit's abuse by Uncle Peck; also wrote Indecent, on Sholem Asch's God of Vengeance.
David Ives | Comic playwright of the one-act collection All in the Timing, including "Sure Thing," whose bell resets a flirtation until it succeeds; also wrote Venus in Fur.
Suzan-Lori Parks | First Black woman to win the Drama Pulitzer, for Topdog/Underdog; also wrote The America Play and Father Comes Home from the Wars.
- Topdog/Underdog | Parks's play of brothers named Lincoln and Booth; Lincoln works as a Lincoln-impersonator reenacting the assassination at an arcade.
Sam Shepard | Off-Off-Broadway-rooted playwright of Buried Child, True West, and Fool for Love; also an actor in The Right Stuff.
- Buried Child | Shepard's Pulitzer winner: a Midwestern farm family conceals the corpse of an infant buried in the backyard; grandson Vince returns home.
David Henry Hwang | Tony winner for M. Butterfly; also wrote Yellow Face and Chinglish, often exploring Asian-American identity and stereotype.
- M. Butterfly | Hwang's riff on Puccini: French diplomat Gallimard's decades-long affair with opera singer Song Liling, revealed to be a man and spy.
Ayad Akhtar | Pulitzer-winning playwright of Disgraced; also wrote the Wall Street drama Junk and the autobiographical novel Homeland Elegies.
- Disgraced | Akhtar's play in which lawyer Amir Kapoor's dinner party unravels after he admits complicated feelings about 9/11 and Islam.
John Guare | Playwright of Six Degrees of Separation and The House of Blue Leaves, often centered on con artistry and thwarted ambition.
Katori Hall | Memphis-set playwright; won the Pulitzer for The Hot Wing King and wrote The Mountaintop, imagining MLK's last night with the maid Camae.
Quiara Alegria Hudes | Wrote the book for In the Heights; won the Pulitzer for Water by the Spoonful, part of her Iraq War veteran Elliot Ortiz trilogy.
Doubt: A Parable | Shanley's play in which Sister Aloysius accuses Father Flynn of abusing a student, with Sister James caught between them.
Wit | Margaret Edson's Pulitzer winner: John Donne scholar Vivian Bearing endures ovarian-cancer treatment, reciting "Death, be not proud" as she dies.
The Vagina Monologues | Eve Ensler's episodic play built from interviews about women's bodies, sexuality, and experiences.
Ntozake Shange | Wrote the "choreopoem" for colored girls who have considered suicide/when the rainbow is enuf, blending poetry, dance, and music.
Anna in the Tropics | Nilo Cruz's Pulitzer winner: a lector reads Anna Karenina aloud to Cuban cigar rollers in 1920s Ybor City, Tampa.
Clybourne Park | Bruce Norris's Pulitzer/Tony-winning Raisin in the Sun spin-off: white couple Bev and Russ sell their house despite Karl Lindner's objections.
The Laramie Project | Tectonic Theater Project's docudrama, built from interviews after the murder of Matthew Shepard in Laramie, Wyoming.
Lynn Nottage | First woman to win two Drama Pulitzers: Ruined, set in a bar-brothel in wartime Congo, and Sweat, on factory workers in Reading, Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania | Common-link state: setting of August Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle, Lynn Nottage's Sweat, and Quiara Alegria Hudes's Water by the Spoonful.
Wilson | Common-link surname: August Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle plays and Lanford Wilson's Talley's Folly and Fifth of July.
Pulitzer Prize for Drama | Common-link prize: won by Hudes's Water by the Spoonful, Akhtar's Disgraced, four times by O'Neill, and three times by Albee.
desire | Common-link title word: O'Neill's Desire Under the Elms, Williams's A Streetcar Named Desire, and Glaspell's Suppressed Desires.
Eugene Gladstone O'Neill | Full name of Eugene O'Neill, America's Nobel-winning dramatist of The Iceman Cometh and Long Day's Journey into Night.
Arthur Asher Miller | Full name of Arthur Miller, playwright of Death of a Salesman, The Crucible, and All My Sons.
Edward Franklin Albee III | Full name of Edward Albee, playwright of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and The Zoo Story.
