# Postwar Fiction (1945-1980)

Jerome David Salinger -> J. D. Salinger | Author of Holden Caulfield's The Catcher in the Rye; Nine Stories includes "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" and recluse Seymour Glass.
John Updike = John Hoyer Updike | Lyricist of suburban adultery: four Rabbit Angstrom novels, "A&P" narrated by checkout boy Sammy, and The Witches of Eastwick.
- Rabbit | Angstrom, Updike's everyman protagonist across four novels (Run, Redux, Is Rich, At Rest) tracking postwar suburban decline.
Philip Milton Roth -> Philip Roth | Jewish-American novelist of Portnoy's Complaint and Goodbye, Columbus; American Trilogy (American Pastoral, The Human Stain); alter ego Nathan Zuckerman.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. = Kurt Vonnegut Jr. -> Kurt Vonnegut | Satirist of Slaughterhouse-Five's Billy Pilgrim, Cat's Cradle, and Breakfast of Champions; recurring alter-ego novelist Kilgore Trout.
Gore Vidal | Narratives of Empire historical novelist (Burr); Myra Breckinridge's transitioning title character; sharp political essayist, sparred with Buckley.
John Barth | Postmodern metafictionist of The Sot-Weed Factor and Giles Goat-Boy; Lost in the Funhouse's "Frame-Tale" opens with a Mobius strip.
- The Sot-Weed Factor | Novel titled for Ebenezer Cooke's satirical poem on colonial Maryland; Barth's fictionalized Cooke is its "Poet Laureate" protagonist.
- Giles Goat-Boy | Satire in which a boy raised among goats becomes Grand Tutor of New Tammany College, trained by supercomputer WESCAC.
postmodernism | Metafictional post-1950s movement of unreliable narrators and intertextuality; Barth's The Sot-Weed Factor and Lost in the Funhouse are key texts.
Vladimir Nabokov | Russian-American novelist and lepidopterist who switched to English after emigrating; translated Eugene Onegin, taught at Cornell.
- Lolita | Novel narrated by Humbert Humbert ("light of my life, fire of my loins") obsessing over Dolores Haze; rival Clare Quilty, motel odyssey.
- Pale Fire | Novel structured as Charles Kinbote's mad commentary on John Shade's 999-line poem; assassin Jakob Gradus, exiled kingdom of Zembla.
Donald Barthelme | Postmodern short-story writer and metafictionist; his first novel retells a classic fairy tale.
- Snow White | Fragmented retelling in which Snow White lives with seven men who wash windows and bathe her; Jane loves Hogo de Bergerac.
Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr. -> Thomas Pynchon | Reclusive postmodernist of V., The Crying of Lot 49 (Oedipa Maas, the Trystero), and Gravity's Rainbow's Tyrone Slothrop.
William Gaddis | Reclusive postmodernist of J R and Agape Agape; The Recognitions took Jonathan Franzen a week and a half to read.
The Recognitions | William Gaddis's dense debut novel of art forger Wyatt Gwyon, who fakes Flemish Old Masters under critic Basil Valentine's eye.
Ken Kesey | Countercultural novelist and Merry Prankster who drove the bus Furthur; The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test chronicles his LSD circle.
- One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest | Asylum novel narrated by Chief Bromden: gambler Randle McMurphy battles Nurse Ratched, is lobotomized, and is smothered by the Chief.
- Nurse Ratched | Tyrannical head nurse of the asylum ward in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest; McMurphy's chief antagonist.
E. L. Doctorow | Historical novelist blending fiction with real figures; also wrote The Book of Daniel and Billy Bathgate.
- Ragtime | Novel weaving Coalhouse Walker Jr.'s Model T revenge plot with historical figures — Houdini, Emma Goldman, J. P. Morgan — in 1900s New York.
Joseph Heller | Satirist of Catch-22; also wrote Something Happened, a bleak corporate-life novel, and God Knows.
- Catch-22 | WWII satire of bombardier Yossarian on Pianosa; the title's circular logic on flying missions, Milo Minderbinder's syndicate, Snowden's death.
- John Yossarian | Catch-22's bombardier protagonist, desperate to be grounded as required missions keep rising; convinced everyone is trying to kill him.
- Milo Minderbinder | Catch-22's mess officer who builds a black-market syndicate, even contracting to bomb his own airfield for profit.
Bernard Malamud | Jewish-American novelist of The Fixer and The Assistant; also wrote the baseball novel The Natural.
- The Natural | Novel of mysterious slugger Roy Hobbs, shot by Harriet Bird, chasing redemption for the Knights; loosely filmed with Robert Redford.
Chaim Potok | Novelist of Orthodox and Hasidic Jewish life; also wrote My Name Is Asher Lev, of a painter's Brooklyn Crucifixion.
The Chosen | Novel of Orthodox Reuven Malter and Hasidic Danny Saunders, friends after a baseball injury; fathers Reb Saunders and David Malter.
Cynthia Ozick | Jewish-American author of "The Shawl," where baby Magda is killed at a camp; also wrote The Puttermesser Papers.
Leslie Marmon Silko | Laguna Pueblo author of Ceremony, in which WWII veteran Tayo is healed by medicine man Betonie; also wrote Almanac of the Dead.
N. Scott Momaday | Kiowa author of The Way to Rainy Mountain; his House Made of Dawn won the 1969 Pulitzer Prize.
House Made of Dawn | N. Scott Momaday's Pulitzer-winning 1969 novel of Abel, a Kiowa veteran; ends in a ritual run honoring his grandfather Francisco.
John William Cheever -> John Cheever | Suburban-malaise short-story writer; "The Swimmer"'s Neddy Merrill swims home pool by pool; wrote The Wapshot Chronicle, Falconer.
Richard Yates | Chronicler of suburban despair; Revolutionary Road's Frank and April Wheeler, The Easter Parade's Grimes sisters.
Mary McCarthy | Novelist-critic of The Group, tracking eight 1933 Vassar graduates; wife of Edmund Wilson, feuded publicly with Lillian Hellman.
Nelson Algren | Chicago novelist of the lower depths: morphine addict Frankie Machine in The Man with the Golden Arm; Simone de Beauvoir's lover.
Dalton Trumbo | Blacklisted Hollywood Ten screenwriter; Johnny Got His Gun's Joe Bonham loses his limbs and face fighting in WWI.
George Plimpton | Participatory journalist and Paris Review founding editor; Paper Lion recounts training with the Detroit Lions; wrote the Sidd Finch hoax.
Susan Sontag | Essayist-critic of "Notes on 'Camp,'" Against Interpretation, On Photography, and Illness as Metaphor; her novel The Volcano Lover also appears.
New Journalism | 1960s-70s nonfiction movement blending reportage with subjective, novelistic technique; associated with Tom Wolfe, Joan Didion, Norman Mailer's convention pieces.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas | Hunter S. Thompson's gonzo novel of journalist Raoul Duke and Samoan attorney Dr. Gonzo's drug-fueled Vegas road trip.
Norman Kingsley Mailer -> Norman Mailer | Combative novelist-essayist of The Naked and the Dead and The Executioner's Song; New Journalism landmark The Armies of the Night.
E. B. White | New Yorker essayist and children's author of Stuart Little and Charlotte's Web; revised Strunk's The Elements of Style.
Bowles | Common-link surname for married writers Paul (The Sheltering Sky, "A Distant Episode") and Jane Bowles (Two Serious Ladies); expatriates in Tangier.
The Sheltering Sky | Paul Bowles's novel of Port and Kit Moresby's crumbling marriage in North Africa; Port dies of typhoid, Kit is captured.
In Watermelon Sugar | Richard Brautigan's novella of the commune iDEATH, built from the title substance; inBOIL's gang haunts the Forgotten Works.
Richard Farina -> Richard Fariña | Folk singer-novelist of Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me's Gnossos Pappadopoulos; died young in a motorcycle crash.
Wallace Stegner | Stanford creative-writing founder; The Big Rock Candy Mountain's Bo and Elsa Mason; wrote of explorer John Wesley Powell.
Angle of Repose | Pulitzer novel of wheelchair-bound historian Lyman Ward chronicling grandparents Susan and Oliver Ward's frontier marriage in mining towns.
John Williams | Novelist of Stoner, a quiet campus-life tragedy; also wrote Butcher's Crossing and the epistolary Augustus.
