32	Langston Hughes	exact	-	Poet laureate of the Harlem Renaissance: "The Negro Speaks of Rivers," "Harlem," "I, Too," "The Weary Blues," and the Jesse B. Semple ("Simple") stories.
3	"The Weary Blues"	alias	Langston Hughes	-
3	"Theme For English B"	alias	Langston Hughes	-
25	Phillis Wheatley	exact	-	African-born enslaved poet of revolutionary Boston, the first African American to publish a poetry book; clues cite Poems on Various Subjects and "On Being Brought from Africa to America."
20	Zora Neale Hurston	exact	-	Anthropologist-novelist from Eatonville, Florida: Their Eyes Were Watching God, the folklore collection Mules and Men, and the essay "How It Feels to Be Colored Me."
17	Their Eyes Were Watching God	alias	Zora Neale Hurston	Hurston's novel of Janie Crawford's three marriages; the pear tree, the mule of Eatonville, the hurricane, and the shooting of rabid Tea Cake are the standard clues.
4	Sweat	unmatched	Zora Neale Hurston	-
3	"The Gilded Six-Bits"	unmatched	Zora Neale Hurston	-
3	Eatonville, Florida	unmatched	Zora Neale Hurston	-
3	Tea Cake	unmatched	Zora Neale Hurston	-
16	James Weldon Johnson	exact	-	Writer of "Lift Every Voice and Sing," the novel The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man, and the sermon-poems of God's Trombones; also an NAACP leader and diplomat.
3	the Ex-Colored Man	unmatched	James Weldon Johnson	-
15	Paul Laurence Dunbar	exact	-	First nationally famous Black American poet; "We Wear the Mask" and "Sympathy" ("I know why the caged bird sings") anchor nearly every question.
4	"We Wear the Mask"	alias	Paul Laurence Dunbar	-
3	"Sympathy"	alias	Paul Laurence Dunbar	-
14	Frederick Douglass	unmatched	-	Escaped slave, orator, and editor of The North Star; his 1845 Narrative, the fight with slave-breaker Covey, and "What to the Slave Is the Fourth of July?" are the clues.
10	Claude McKay	unmatched	-	Jamaican-born Harlem Renaissance poet of the defiant sonnet "If We Must Die" and "America" ("this cultured hell that tests my youth"), plus the novel Home to Harlem.
4	Jamaica	unmatched	Claude McKay	-
3	"If We Must Die"	unmatched	Claude McKay	-
10	Harlem Renaissance	unmatched	-	The 1920s flowering of Black art centered in upper Manhattan: Hughes, Hurston, McKay, Countee Cullen, and Alain Locke's anthology The New Negro are the standard clues.
10	Phyllis Wheatley	unmatched	-	-
8	slave narratives	unmatched	-	-
6	blues	unmatched	-	-
6	Countee Cullen	unmatched	-	-
3	"Yet Do I Marvel"	unmatched	Countee Cullen	-
5	Dunbar	alias	-	-
5	Jean Toomer	unmatched	-	-
4	Cane	unmatched	Jean Toomer	-
5	Jupiter Hammon	unmatched	-	-
4	Nella Larsen	unmatched	-	-
5	passing	unmatched	Nella Larsen	-
3	Quicksand	unmatched	Nella Larsen	-
4	W. E. B. Du Bois	unmatched	-	-
3	The Souls of Black Folk	unmatched	W. E. B. Du Bois	-
3	Charles Chesnutt	exact	-	 [merge? variants: Charles W. Chesnutt / Charles Waddell Chesnutt -> Charles Chesnutt]
3	Charles W. Chesnutt	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Charles Chesnutt]
3	The House Behind the Cedars	unmatched	Charles W. Chesnutt	-
3	Charles Waddell Chesnutt	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Charles Chesnutt]
3	Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl	unmatched	-	-
