50	William Carlos Williams	exact	-	Rutherford physician-poet of "The Red Wheelbarrow," "This Is Just to Say," Spring and All, and the epic Paterson; his slogan was "no ideas but in things."
7	"Asphodel, That Greeny Flower"	alias	William Carlos Williams	-
5	Paterson	alias	William Carlos Williams	-
4	"no ideas but in things"	unmatched	William Carlos Williams	-
3	"The Red Wheelbarrow"	alias	William Carlos Williams	-
48	Wallace Stevens	exact	-	Hartford insurance executive; "The Emperor of Ice-Cream," "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird," "Anecdote of the Jar," "Sunday Morning," and the collection Harmonium recur constantly.
10	"Sunday Morning"	alias	Wallace Stevens	Stevens poem in which a woman lounging with coffee and oranges skips church; it ends with "casual flocks of pigeons" sinking "downward to darkness, on extended wings." [merge? variants: Sunday morning -> "Sunday Morning"]
9	Harmonium	alias	Wallace Stevens	-
8	"The Emperor of Ice Cream"	alias	Wallace Stevens	-
5	"Peter Quince at the Clavier"	alias	Wallace Stevens	-
5	"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"	alias	Wallace Stevens	-
3	"The Auroras of Autumn"	unmatched	Wallace Stevens	-
3	"The Idea of Order at Key West"	alias	Wallace Stevens	-
3	Sunday morning	alias	Wallace Stevens	 [merge? likely variant of: "Sunday Morning"]
42	Edna St. Vincent Millay	exact	-	Sonneteer of Greenwich Village bohemia: "First Fig" ("My candle burns at both ends"), "Renascence," and the Pulitzer-winning The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver.
4	"Renascence"	alias	Edna St. Vincent Millay	-
40	Robert Frost	unmatched	-	New England poet of "The Road Not Taken," "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," "Mending Wall," "Birches," and "Fire and Ice"; recited at Kennedy's inauguration. [merge? variants: Robert Lee Frost -> Robert Frost]
6	"The Death of the Hired Man"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
5	"Mending Wall"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
4	"Birches"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
4	"Home Burial"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
4	"Out, Out-"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
4	"The Gift Outright"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
4	North of Boston	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
3	"Directive"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
3	"Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening"	unmatched	Robert Frost	-
30	Ezra Pound	exact	-	Imagist impresario who edited The Waste Land: "In a Station of the Metro," Hugh Selwyn Mauberley, and The Cantos; his fascist broadcasts and confinement at St. Elizabeths recur. [merge? variants: Ezra Weston Loomis Pound -> Ezra Pound]
13	The Cantos	alias	Ezra Pound	Pound's sprawling, unfinished 116-plus-section epic, opening with a translation of Odysseus's descent to the underworld; includes the usura canto and the Pisan Cantos, written in a detention camp.
23	W. H. Auden	exact	-	British-born poet who became a U.S. citizen and is asked as American literature: "Musée des Beaux Arts," "Funeral Blues," "The Unknown Citizen," and The Age of Anxiety. [merge? variants: W.H. Auden -> W. H. Auden]
14	"September 1, 1939"	alias	W. H. Auden	Auden's poem written "in one of the dives / on Fifty-second Street" at the outbreak of World War II; "We must love one another or die" is the famous line he later disowned.
20	Dorothy Parker	exact	-	Algonquin Round Table wit; the story "Big Blonde," the poem "Résumé" ("you might as well live"), and her acid Constant Reader reviews fill questions.
20	Hart Crane	exact	-	Visionary poet of The Bridge, addressed to the Brooklyn Bridge, and White Buildings; died jumping from the steamship Orizaba while returning from Mexico.
3	The Bridge	alias	Hart Crane	-
19	Marianne Moore	exact	-	Precise syllabic-verse modernist; "Poetry" ("imaginary gardens with real toads in them"), "The Fish," and her tricorn hat and Brooklyn Dodgers fandom are clues.
8	poetry	alias	Marianne Moore	-
5	"Poetry"	alias	Marianne Moore	-
3	"The Steeple Jack"	alias	Marianne Moore	-
15	Wystan Hugh Auden	unmatched	-	-
14	Stephen Vincent Benet	exact	-	Author of the Pulitzer-winning Civil War verse epic John Brown's Body and the story "The Devil and Daniel Webster," in which Webster out-argues Mr. Scratch before a jury of the damned.
13	Edwin Arlington Robinson	exact	-	Poet of fictional Tilbury Town: "Richard Cory," who "went home and put a bullet through his head," plus "Miniver Cheevy" and "Mr. Flood's Party."
4	"Eros Turannos"	unmatched	Edwin Arlington Robinson	-
3	"Luke Havergal"	alias	Edwin Arlington Robinson	-
3	"Miniver Cheevy"	alias	Edwin Arlington Robinson	-
3	Tilbury Town	unmatched	Edwin Arlington Robinson	-
12	E. E. Cummings	unmatched	-	Lowercase typographical experimenter: "anyone lived in a pretty how town," "in Just-," "l(a," and the World War I internment memoir The Enormous Room. [merge? variants: e e cummings -> E. E. Cummings]
3	"i sing of olaf glad and big"	unmatched	E. E. Cummings	-
3	capitalization	unmatched	E. E. Cummings	-
11	H.D.	unmatched	-	Pen name of Hilda Doolittle, signed "H.D. Imagiste" by Pound; crystalline lyrics like "Oread" and "Sea Rose" plus the later epics Trilogy and Helen in Egypt appear. [merge? variants: H. D. -> H.D.]
3	asphodel	unmatched	H.D.	-
11	Imagism	alias	-	Pound-launched movement demanding "direct treatment of the thing"; anthologized in Des Imagistes and later led by Amy Lowell ("Amygism"); H.D. and "In a Station of the Metro" are stock clues.
10	Vachel Lindsay	exact	-	Performer of chanted "singing poetry": "The Congo," "General William Booth Enters into Heaven," and "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight"; he discovered Langston Hughes waiting tables.
8	Amy Lowell	unmatched	-	-
4	"Patterns"	unmatched	Amy Lowell	-
8	Carl Sandburg	exact	-	-
8	Edward Estlin Cummings	unmatched	-	-
7	Robert Lee Frost	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Robert Frost]
7	Robinson Jeffers	unmatched	-	-
7	T. S. Eliot	exact	-	 [merge? variants: T.S. Eliot -> T. S. Eliot]
3	"Preludes"	unmatched	T. S. Eliot	-
3	Sweeney	unmatched	T. S. Eliot	-
6	Edward Arlington Robinson	unmatched	-	-
6	Ezra Weston Loomis Pound	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Ezra Pound]
5	e e cummings	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: E. E. Cummings]
5	T.S. Eliot	exact	-	 [merge? likely variant of: T. S. Eliot]
4	Archibald MacLeish	exact	-	-
4	H. D.	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: H.D.]
4	Louis Zukofsky	unmatched	-	-
3	"A"	unmatched	Louis Zukofsky	-
4	Ogden Nash	unmatched	-	-
3	Edgar Lee Masters	unmatched	-	-
7	Spoon River Anthology	unmatched	Edgar Lee Masters	-
3	Spoon River	unmatched	Edgar Lee Masters	-
3	Harold Hart Crane	unmatched	-	-
3	W.H. Auden	exact	-	 [merge? likely variant of: W. H. Auden]
