36	David Foster Wallace	exact	-	Author of Infinite Jest, the cruise-ship essay "A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again," the commencement speech "This Is Water," and the unfinished The Pale King.
14	Infinite Jest	alias	David Foster Wallace	Wallace's mammoth novel set at Enfield Tennis Academy and Ennet House: the Incandenza family, wheelchair-bound Quebecois separatists, and the lethally entertaining "samizdat" film.
25	Raymond Carver	exact	-	Minimalist "dirty realist" story writer, heavily edited by Gordon Lish: "Cathedral," "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love," and "A Small, Good Thing."
11	"What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"	alias	Raymond Carver	Carver's title story: two couples — cardiologist Mel and Terri, Nick and Laura — drink gin and argue about love, including the old couple injured in a car crash. [merge? variants: What We Talk About When We Talk About Love -> "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"]
7	What We Talk About When We Talk About Love	alias	Raymond Carver	 [merge? likely variant of: "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love"]
6	"Cathedral"	unmatched	Raymond Carver	-
5	"Where I'm Calling From"	alias	Raymond Carver	-
22	Cormac McCarthy	exact	-	Novelist of violent Souths and Southwests: Blood Meridian with Judge Holden, the Border Trilogy beginning with All the Pretty Horses, No Country for Old Men, and The Road.
10	The Road	alias	Cormac McCarthy	McCarthy's post-apocalyptic Pulitzer winner following an unnamed father and son "carrying the fire" toward the coast, pushing a shopping cart through the ash.
5	All the Pretty Horses	alias	Cormac McCarthy	-
4	Judge Holden	unmatched	Cormac McCarthy	-
4	No Country For Old Men	alias	Cormac McCarthy	-
3	Blood Meridian	alias	Cormac McCarthy	-
22	Don DeLillo	exact	-	Postmodernist of White Noise, Underworld — which opens at the "Shot Heard 'Round the World" baseball game — Libra, and Mao II.
15	White Noise	alias	Don DeLillo	DeLillo's National Book Award-winning satire of Hitler-studies professor Jack Gladney, the Airborne Toxic Event, and the fear-of-death drug Dylar.
5	Underworld	override	Don DeLillo	-
16	Jhumpa Lahiri	exact	-	Chronicler of Bengali American life: the Pulitzer-winning Interpreter of Maladies, The Namesake with Gogol Ganguli, and later books written in Italian.
16	Joyce Carol Oates	exact	-	Hyper-prolific novelist; "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?" with Arnold Friend, the National Book Award winner them, and Blonde are the usual clues.
4	"Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?"	alias	Joyce Carol Oates	-
15	Michael Chabon	exact	-	Pulitzer winner for The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, about Golden Age comic-book creators; The Yiddish Policemen's Union and The Mysteries of Pittsburgh also come up.
3	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay	unmatched	Michael Chabon	-
3	The Yiddish Policemen's Union	alias	Michael Chabon	-
14	Jonathan Franzen	exact	-	Novelist of Midwestern family sagas: The Corrections, about the Lamberts, and Freedom; his Oprah's Book Club snub and the essay "Perchance to Dream" appear as clues. [merge? variants: Jonathan Earl Franzen -> Jonathan Franzen]
4	Freedom	alias	Jonathan Franzen	-
3	"Mr. Difficult"	alias	Jonathan Franzen	-
12	Sherman Alexie	unmatched	-	Spokane/Coeur d'Alene writer of The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven, the basis for the film Smoke Signals, and The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian.
10	George Saunders	unmatched	-	Satirical story writer of Tenth of December and CivilWarLand in Bad Decline; won the Booker Prize for Lincoln in the Bardo, narrated by graveyard ghosts.
8	Alice Munro	exact	-	 [merge? variants: Alice Ann Munro -> Alice Munro]
8	Amy Tan	unmatched	-	-
10	The Joy Luck Club	unmatched	Amy Tan	Amy Tan's novel of four Chinese immigrant mothers and their American-born daughters trading stories over mahjong; Jing-mei "June" Woo travels to China to meet her half-sisters.
8	Jamaica Kincaid	unmatched	-	-
3	"Girl"	unmatched	Jamaica Kincaid	-
8	John Irving	unmatched	-	 [merge? variants: John Winslow Irving -> John Irving]
7	The World According to Garp	unmatched	John Irving	-
5	The Cider House Rules	unmatched	John Irving	-
3	Owen Meany	unmatched	John Irving	-
7	Barbara Kingsolver	unmatched	-	-
7	Jennifer Egan	unmatched	-	-
6	A Visit From the Goon Squad	unmatched	Jennifer Egan	-
7	Jonathan Safran Foer	unmatched	-	-
3	Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close	unmatched	Jonathan Safran Foer	-
7	Louise Erdrich	exact	-	-
4	Love Medicine	alias	Louise Erdrich	-
7	Margaret Atwood	exact	-	-
4	Oryx and Crake	alias	Margaret Atwood	-
7	Sandra Cisneros	unmatched	-	-
8	The House on Mango Street	unmatched	Sandra Cisneros	-
6	Annie Dillard	unmatched	-	-
6	Lydia Davis	unmatched	-	-
6	Ocean Vuong	unmatched	-	-
6	Paul Auster	unmatched	-	-
5	The New York Trilogy	unmatched	Paul Auster	-
6	Tim O'Brien	unmatched	-	-
9	The Things They Carried	unmatched	Tim O'Brien	-
5	Anne Carson	unmatched	-	-
5	House of Leaves	unmatched	-	-
5	Jane Smiley	unmatched	-	-
5	Junot Diaz	exact	-	-
5	Kathy Acker	unmatched	-	-
5	Maxine Hong Kingston	unmatched	-	-
4	Bless Me, Ultima	unmatched	-	-
4	Bluets	unmatched	-	-
4	Denis Johnson	unmatched	-	-
3	Jesus' Son	unmatched	Denis Johnson	-
4	Erdrich	alias	-	-
4	Homegoing	unmatched	-	-
4	John Winslow Irving	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: John Irving]
4	Lorrie Moore	unmatched	-	-
4	Patricia Lockwood	unmatched	-	-
4	The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts	unmatched	-	-
3	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	unmatched	-	-
3	Alice Ann Munro	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Alice Munro]
3	Alison Bechdel	unmatched	-	-
3	Annie Proulx	unmatched	-	-
3	Art Spiegelman	unmatched	-	-
3	Ben Lerner	unmatched	-	-
3	Donna Tartt	unmatched	-	-
3	Emily St. John Mandel	unmatched	-	-
3	James Welch	unmatched	-	-
3	Jeffrey Eugenides	unmatched	-	-
3	Middlesex	unmatched	Jeffrey Eugenides	-
3	Jonathan Earl Franzen	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Jonathan Franzen]
3	Jonathan Lethem	unmatched	-	-
3	Marilynne Robinson	unmatched	-	-
4	Gilead	unmatched	Marilynne Robinson	-
3	Michael Cunningham	unmatched	-	-
3	Nathan Englander	unmatched	-	-
3	Ottessa Moshfegh	unmatched	-	-
3	Raymond Clevie Carver Jr.	unmatched	-	-
3	Richard Powers	unmatched	-	-
3	Swamplandia!	unmatched	-	-
3	Teju Cole	unmatched	-	-
3	The Mezzanine	unmatched	-	-
3	Tobias Wolff	unmatched	-	-
3	Tommy Orange	unmatched	-	-
