42	Flannery O'Connor	exact	-	Georgia Catholic master of the grotesque: "A Good Man Is Hard to Find" with The Misfit, "Good Country People," Wise Blood, and The Violent Bear It Away.
11	"Everything That Rises Must Converge"	alias	Flannery O'Connor	O'Connor story in which Julian's mother collapses after a Black woman wearing the same hat strikes her at a bus stop; the title comes from Teilhard de Chardin. [merge? variants: Everything that Rises Must Converge -> "Everything That Rises Must Converge"]
7	"A Good Man is Hard to Find"	alias	Flannery O'Connor	-
7	"Revelation"	alias	Flannery O'Connor	-
6	"The Life You Save May Be Your Own"	alias	Flannery O'Connor	-
6	Wise Blood	alias	Flannery O'Connor	-
4	the grandmother	unmatched	Flannery O'Connor	-
3	"Parker's Back"	alias	Flannery O'Connor	-
3	Everything that Rises Must Converge	alias	Flannery O'Connor	 [merge? likely variant of: "Everything That Rises Must Converge"]
3	The Misfit	unmatched	Flannery O'Connor	-
3	The Violent Bear It Away	alias	Flannery O'Connor	-
33	William Faulkner	unmatched	-	Nobel laureate of fictional Yoknapatawpha County: The Sound and the Fury, As I Lay Dying, Absalom, Absalom!, Light in August, and "A Rose for Emily." [merge? variants: William Cuthbert Faulkner -> William Faulkner]
10	The Sound and the Fury	unmatched	William Faulkner	Faulkner's Compson family novel in four sections — Benjy's, Quentin's (ending in suicide at Harvard), Jason's, and Dilsey's; the title comes from Macbeth.
8	As I Lay Dying	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
5	"A Rose for Emily"	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
5	"The Bear"	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
5	Absalom, Absalom!	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
5	Thomas Sutpen	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
4	Intruder in the Dust	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
4	Light in August	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	"Barn Burning"	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	"Dry September"	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	"Why do you hate the South?"	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	Benjy Compson	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	Caddy Compson	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	Compson family	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	Go Down, Moses	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	Quentin Compson	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	Requiem for a Nun	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
3	Sanctuary	unmatched	William Faulkner	-
19	Truman Capote	unmatched	-	Author of the "nonfiction novel" In Cold Blood, about the Clutter family murders, plus Breakfast at Tiffany's with Holly Golightly and Other Voices, Other Rooms.
6	Breakfast at Tiffany's	unmatched	Truman Capote	-
4	In Cold Blood	unmatched	Truman Capote	-
3	Holly Golightly	unmatched	Truman Capote	-
18	Eudora Welty	unmatched	-	Mississippi story writer: "A Worn Path" with Phoenix Jackson, "Why I Live at the P.O.," the Pulitzer-winning The Optimist's Daughter, and the memoir One Writer's Beginnings.
6	"A Worn Path"	unmatched	Eudora Welty	-
5	"Why I Live at the P.O."	unmatched	Eudora Welty	-
5	The Optimist's Daughter	unmatched	Eudora Welty	-
3	The Robber Bridegroom	unmatched	Eudora Welty	-
16	Carson McCullers	exact	-	Georgia novelist of lonely misfits: The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter, The Member of the Wedding with Frankie Addams, and The Ballad of the Sad Café.
20	The Heart is a Lonely Hunter	alias	Carson McCullers	McCullers's debut about deaf-mute John Singer, confidant of Mick Kelly, Dr. Copeland, Jake Blount, and Biff Brannon in a Georgia mill town; Singer shoots himself after his friend Antonapoulos dies.
3	The Ballad of the Sad Cafe	alias	Carson McCullers	-
3	The Member of the Wedding	alias	Carson McCullers	-
16	Robert Penn Warren	exact	-	The only writer with Pulitzers in both fiction and poetry, and the first official U.S. Poet Laureate; All the King's Men and the Fugitive-Agrarian circle supply the clues.
11	All the King's Men	alias	Robert Penn Warren	Warren's novel of Louisiana demagogue Willie Stark, narrated by Jack Burden, whose historical digging drives Judge Irwin to suicide; loosely based on Huey Long.
4	Willie Stark	unmatched	Robert Penn Warren	-
14	Katherine Anne Porter	exact	-	Texas-born writer of Pale Horse, Pale Rider, "The Jilting of Granny Weatherall," the Miranda stories, and the allegorical ocean-liner novel Ship of Fools.
3	Pale Horse, Pale Rider	alias	Katherine Anne Porter	-
11	A Confederacy of Dunces	unmatched	-	John Kennedy Toole's posthumous Pulitzer-winning New Orleans comedy starring hot-dog vendor Ignatius J. Reilly, devotee of Boethius; published through Walker Percy's advocacy.
9	Walker Percy	unmatched	-	-
7	The Moviegoer	unmatched	Walker Percy	-
6	Harper Lee	unmatched	-	-
4	Go Set a Watchman	unmatched	Harper Lee	-
6	Nat Turner	unmatched	-	-
5	Allen Tate	exact	-	-
5	"Ode to the Confederate Dead"	alias	Allen Tate	-
5	William Cuthbert Faulkner	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: William Faulkner]
4	Gone with the Wind	unmatched	-	-
3	John Crowe Ransom	unmatched	-	-
3	New Criticism	exact	-	-
3	Sophie's Choice	unmatched	-	-
