39	Eugene O'Neill	exact	-	America's first great playwright and its only dramatist Nobel laureate: Long Day's Journey into Night, The Iceman Cometh, The Hairy Ape, Desire Under the Elms, and Mourning Becomes Electra. [merge? variants: Eugene Gladstone O'Neill -> Eugene O'Neill]
21	The Iceman Cometh	alias	Eugene O'Neill	O'Neill play set in Harry Hope's saloon, where salesman Hickey urges the regulars to abandon their "pipe dreams"; he is revealed to have murdered his wife Evelyn.
16	Long Day's Journey into Night	alias	Eugene O'Neill	O'Neill's posthumously produced autobiographical play: miserly actor James Tyrone, his morphine-addicted wife Mary, and sons Jamie and consumptive Edmund across one day in Connecticut.
6	Ah, Wilderness!	unmatched	Eugene O'Neill	-
6	The Emperor Jones	alias	Eugene O'Neill	-
5	Anna Christie	alias	Eugene O'Neill	-
5	Strange Interlude	unmatched	Eugene O'Neill	-
4	Desire Under the Elms	unmatched	Eugene O'Neill	-
4	Harry Hope's saloon	unmatched	Eugene O'Neill	-
4	The Hairy Ape	alias	Eugene O'Neill	-
3	fog	alias	Eugene O'Neill	-
3	Hickey	unmatched	Eugene O'Neill	-
3	Mary Tyrone	unmatched	Eugene O'Neill	-
38	August Wilson	exact	-	Author of the ten-play Pittsburgh Cycle chronicling each decade of twentieth-century Black life: Fences, The Piano Lesson, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom, and Joe Turner's Come and Gone.
20	Fences	alias	August Wilson	Wilson's Pulitzer winner about ex-Negro Leagues slugger Troy Maxson, who builds a fence, taunts Death, and blocks his son Cory's football scholarship; Gabriel opens the gates at the end.
13	The Piano Lesson	alias	August Wilson	Wilson play in which Boy Willie wants to sell the piano carved with the family's history, which his sister Berniece refuses to touch; it ends with the exorcism of Sutter's ghost.
10	Pittsburgh	unmatched	August Wilson	Common link built on August Wilson's ten-play cycle in the Hill District, plus Chabon's The Mysteries of Pittsburgh, Cather's "Paul's Case," and Annie Dillard's An American Childhood.
5	Aunt Ester	unmatched	August Wilson	-
5	Troy Maxson	unmatched	August Wilson	-
4	Joe Turner's Come and Gone	alias	August Wilson	-
4	Ma Rainey's Black Bottom	alias	August Wilson	-
3	Gem of the Ocean	unmatched	August Wilson	-
3	King Hedley	unmatched	August Wilson	-
3	Ma Rainey	unmatched	August Wilson	-
3	Pittsburgh Cycle	unmatched	August Wilson	-
34	Tennessee Williams	exact	-	Southern lyric dramatist: A Streetcar Named Desire, The Glass Menagerie, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, Suddenly Last Summer, and The Night of the Iguana.
17	The Glass Menagerie	alias	Tennessee Williams	Williams's "memory play": narrator Tom Wingfield, his mother Amanda, his fragile sister Laura with her glass unicorn, and the gentleman caller Jim O'Connor.
14	Cat on a Hot Tin Roof	alias	Tennessee Williams	Williams play set at Big Daddy Pollitt's birthday on a Mississippi Delta plantation; alcoholic Brick, his wife Maggie "the Cat," and the truth about Skipper drive the plot.
13	A Streetcar Named Desire	alias	Tennessee Williams	Williams play in which Blanche DuBois arrives at Stella and Stanley Kowalski's Elysian Fields apartment; "STELLA!", the paper lantern, and "the kindness of strangers" are giveaways.
7	The Night of the Iguana	alias	Tennessee Williams	-
5	Blanche DuBois	unmatched	Tennessee Williams	-
5	The Rose Tattoo	alias	Tennessee Williams	-
4	Laura Wingfield	unmatched	Tennessee Williams	-
3	"mendacity"	unmatched	Tennessee Williams	-
3	Night of the Iguana	alias	Tennessee Williams	-
3	Stella Kowalski	unmatched	Tennessee Williams	-
3	Suddenly, Last Summer	alias	Tennessee Williams	-
24	Edward Albee	exact	-	Playwright bridging absurdism and domestic drama: Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, The Zoo Story, A Delicate Balance, and The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia?
18	Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?	alias	Edward Albee	Albee's play of George and Martha's all-night "Fun and Games" with guests Nick and Honey, climaxing in the "killing" of George and Martha's imaginary son.
12	The Zoo Story	alias	Edward Albee	Albee's one-act on a Central Park bench: drifter Jerry tells the "story of Jerry and the dog," provokes publisher Peter, and impales himself on the knife he makes Peter hold.
3	A Delicate Balance	alias	Edward Albee	-
3	Seascape	alias	Edward Albee	-
3	The Goat	unmatched	Edward Albee	-
3	The Sandbox	unmatched	Edward Albee	-
3	Zoo Story	alias	Edward Albee	-
24	Lillian Hellman	exact	-	Playwright of The Little Foxes, The Children's Hour, and Watch on the Rhine; her memoir Pentimento and her defiant letter to HUAC also appear as clues.
18	The Little Foxes	alias	Lillian Hellman	Hellman's play about the grasping Hubbard family of the post-Reconstruction South; Regina Giddens lets her husband Horace die by withholding his heart medicine.
13	The Children's Hour	alias	Lillian Hellman	Hellman play in which student Mary Tilford's lie that teachers Karen and Martha are lovers destroys their school; Martha confesses her feelings and kills herself.
5	Watch on the Rhine	unmatched	Lillian Hellman	-
20	Arthur Miller	exact	-	Playwright of Death of a Salesman, The Crucible, All My Sons, and A View from the Bridge; his marriage to Marilyn Monroe and HUAC testimony appear as biographical clues. [merge? variants: Arthur Asher Miller -> Arthur Miller]
12	Death of a Salesman	alias	Arthur Miller	Miller's tragedy of Willy Loman and his sons Biff and Happy; "attention must be paid," the rubber hose, and the Requiem's "We're free and clear" are stock clues.
12	The Crucible	alias	Arthur Miller	Miller's Salem witch-trial allegory of McCarthyism: John Proctor's cry "Because it is my name!", the accuser Abigail Williams, and Giles Corey pressed to death demanding "more weight."
10	All My Sons	alias	Arthur Miller	Miller play about Joe Keller, who shipped cracked cylinder heads that killed twenty-one pilots; his son Larry's suicide letter forces the recognition that "they were all my sons."
8	A View from the Bridge	alias	Arthur Miller	-
6	After the Fall	alias	Arthur Miller	-
4	Tituba	unmatched	Arthur Miller	-
4	Willy Loman	unmatched	Arthur Miller	-
3	Biff Loman	unmatched	Arthur Miller	-
3	John Proctor	unmatched	Arthur Miller	-
18	David Mamet	exact	-	Playwright of clipped, profane "Mamet speak": Glengarry Glen Ross, American Buffalo, Oleanna, and Speed-the-Plow. [merge? variants: David Alan Mamet -> David Mamet]
16	Glengarry Glen Ross	alias	David Mamet	Mamet's Pulitzer winner about desperate Chicago real-estate salesmen — Shelly Levene, Ricky Roma, the stolen Glengarry leads, and the film's added "Always be closing" speech.
5	American Buffalo	alias	David Mamet	-
4	Oleanna	alias	David Mamet	-
17	Clifford Odets	exact	-	Group Theatre social dramatist of the Depression: Waiting for Lefty, Awake and Sing!, and Golden Boy, about violinist-turned-boxer Joe Bonaparte.
14	Waiting for Lefty	alias	Clifford Odets	Odets's agitprop one-act at a taxi-union meeting awaiting organizer Lefty Costello, who is found shot dead; it ends with the audience-rousing cry of "Strike!"
7	Awake and Sing!	alias	Clifford Odets	-
6	Golden Boy	alias	Clifford Odets	-
17	Lorraine Hansberry	exact	-	First Black woman to have a play on Broadway, with A Raisin in the Sun; The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window and To Be Young, Gifted and Black also appear.
36	A Raisin in the Sun	alias	Lorraine Hansberry	Hansberry's play about the Youngers' insurance money and move to white Clybourne Park: Walter Lee's liquor-store dream, Beneatha, Mama's plant, and Karl Lindner's buyout offer.
6	Beneatha Younger	unmatched	Lorraine Hansberry	-
4	The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window	alias	Lorraine Hansberry	-
15	Lynn Nottage	unmatched	-	The first woman to win two drama Pulitzers: Ruined, set in a bar-brothel in wartime Congo, and Sweat, about factory workers in Reading, Pennsylvania.
13	Our Town	unmatched	Thornton Wilder	Wilder's play narrated by the Stage Manager in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire; Emily Webb marries George Gibbs, dies, and relives her twelfth birthday from the cemetery.
12	The Skin of Our Teeth	unmatched	Thornton Wilder	Wilder's fourth-wall-breaking allegory of the Antrobus family of Excelsior, New Jersey, who survive an ice age, a flood, and war alongside the maid Sabina.
10	Neil Simon	exact	-	Prolific Broadway comedy writer: The Odd Couple's Oscar and Felix, Barefoot in the Park, the autobiographical Brighton Beach trilogy, and the Pulitzer-winning Lost in Yonkers.
9	The Odd Couple	alias	Neil Simon	-
9	Inherit the Wind	unmatched	-	-
9	Pennsylvania	unmatched	-	-
9	Tony Kushner	exact	-	-
21	Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes	unmatched	Tony Kushner	-
16	Angels in America	alias	Tony Kushner	Tony Kushner's two-part epic of the 1980s AIDS crisis: prophet-despite-himself Prior Walter, closeted Joe Pitt, Roy Cohn, and the Angel crashing through the ceiling.
9	AIDS	unmatched	Tony Kushner	-
8	angels	unmatched	Tony Kushner	-
8	Roy Cohn	unmatched	Tony Kushner	-
8	David Ives	unmatched	-	-
8	Suzan-Lori Parks	unmatched	-	-
4	Topdog/Underdog	unmatched	Suzan-Lori Parks	-
8	Wilson	alias	-	-
7	Ayad Akhtar	unmatched	-	-
3	Disgraced	unmatched	Ayad Akhtar	-
7	Paula Vogel	unmatched	-	-
7	Sam Shepard	unmatched	-	-
5	Buried Child	unmatched	Sam Shepard	-
7	William Inge	unmatched	-	 [merge? variants: William Motter Inge -> William Inge]
7	Picnic	unmatched	William Inge	-
6	Bus Stop	alias	William Inge	-
6	Clybourne Park	unmatched	-	-
6	David Alan Mamet	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: David Mamet]
6	David Henry Hwang	unmatched	-	-
8	M. Butterfly	unmatched	David Henry Hwang	-
6	Dutchman	alias	Amiri Baraka	-
6	Eugene Gladstone O'Neill	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Eugene O'Neill]
6	Maxwell Anderson	unmatched	-	-
6	Terrence McNally	unmatched	-	-
3	Love! Valour! Compassion!	unmatched	Terrence McNally	-
6	The Laramie Project	unmatched	-	-
6	the Stage Manager	unmatched	Thornton Niven Wilder	-
5	Dion Boucicault	unmatched	-	-
5	Our American Cousin	unmatched	-	-
5	Susan Glaspell	unmatched	-	-
5	The Adding Machine	unmatched	-	-
5	The Octoroon	unmatched	-	-
5	William Saroyan	unmatched	-	-
4	David Belasco	unmatched	-	-
4	Doubt: A Parable	unmatched	-	-
4	Edward Franklin Albee III	unmatched	-	-
4	Elmer Rice	unmatched	-	-
4	Machinal	unmatched	-	-
4	Ntozake Shange	unmatched	-	-
4	Orson Welles	exact	-	-
4	The Man Who Came to Dinner	unmatched	-	-
4	The Normal Heart	unmatched	-	-
4	The Vagina Monologues	unmatched	-	-
4	Tracy Letts	unmatched	-	-
9	August: Osage County	unmatched	Tracy Letts	-
4	Trifles	unmatched	-	-
3	Anna in the Tropics	unmatched	-	-
3	Arthur Asher Miller	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Arthur Miller]
3	desire	unmatched	-	-
3	Emily Webb	unmatched	Thornton Wilder	-
3	John Guare	unmatched	-	-
3	Katori Hall	unmatched	-	-
3	Larry Kramer	unmatched	-	-
3	method acting	unmatched	-	-
3	Pulitzer Prize for Drama	unmatched	-	-
3	Quiara Alegria Hudes	unmatched	-	-
3	Robert Sherwood	unmatched	-	-
3	stage manager	unmatched	Thornton Wilder	-
3	The Time of Your Life	unmatched	-	-
3	William Motter Inge	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: William Inge]
3	Winterset	unmatched	-	-
3	Wit	unmatched	-	-
