67	Emily Dickinson	exact	-	The most-asked answer in American literature: the reclusive Amherst poet of "Because I could not stop for Death," "I heard a Fly buzz," and "Hope is the thing with feathers," identified by dashes and slant rhyme.
5	"Because I could not stop for Death"	alias	Emily Dickinson	-
4	The Master	unmatched	Emily Dickinson	-
3	"I taste a liquor never brewed"	unmatched	Emily Dickinson	-
3	Fame	unmatched	Emily Dickinson	-
49	Walt Whitman	exact	-	Free-verse poet of Leaves of Grass; "Song of Myself," the Lincoln elegies "O Captain! My Captain!" and "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd," and "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" recur.
20	Leaves of Grass	alias	Walt Whitman	Whitman's lifelong, endlessly revised collection, first published in 1855 with a preface calling the United States "essentially the greatest poem"; contains "Song of Myself" and the Calamus poems.
10	"I Sing the Body Electric"	alias	Walt Whitman	Whitman poem cataloguing the human body and including a slave-auction scene; Ray Bradbury reused the title for a story and collection, which questions often note.
10	"Song of Myself"	alias	Walt Whitman	Fifty-two-section centerpiece of Leaves of Grass; "I celebrate myself, and sing myself," the child asking "What is the grass?", and the "barbaric yawp" are giveaway lines.
8	"When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd"	alias	Walt Whitman	-
5	"Crossing Brooklyn Ferry"	alias	Walt Whitman	-
5	"Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking"	alias	Walt Whitman	-
4	grass	alias	Walt Whitman	-
3	"I Hear America Singing"	alias	Walt Whitman	-
3	"When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer"	unmatched	Walt Whitman	-
3	lilacs	unmatched	Walt Whitman	-
3	Paumanok	unmatched	Walt Whitman	-
20	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	exact	-	The most famous Fireside Poet: The Song of Hiawatha, Evangeline, "Paul Revere's Ride," and "A Psalm of Life" supply most clues.
5	Hiawatha	unmatched	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	-
5	The Song of Hiawatha	alias	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	-
4	"A Psalm of Life"	alias	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	-
3	"The Village Blacksmith"	unmatched	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	-
3	Evangeline, A Tale of Acadie	unmatched	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	-
3	Tales of a Wayside Inn	alias	Henry Wadsworth Longfellow	-
15	William Cullen Bryant	exact	-	Early Romantic poet and longtime New York editor; "Thanatopsis," drafted in his teens, and "To a Waterfowl" are the near-universal clues.
12	"Thanatopsis"	alias	William Cullen Bryant	Bryant's meditation on death urging readers to join the "innumerable caravan" and lie down "to pleasant dreams"; its Greek title means a view or contemplation of death.
10	John Greenleaf Whittier	exact	-	Quaker abolitionist Fireside Poet; the winter idyll Snow-Bound anchors nearly every question, with "Barbara Frietchie" and "Maud Muller" as supporting clues.
9	James Russell Lowell	unmatched	-	-
8	the Soul	unmatched	-	-
6	Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.	unmatched	-	 [merge? variants: Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. -> Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.]
5	Emma Lazarus	unmatched	-	-
4	"The Chambered Nautilus"	unmatched	-	-
3	James Whitcomb Riley	unmatched	-	-
3	Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr.	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.]
