52	Edgar Allan Poe	exact	-	Master of Gothic tales and musical verse: "The Raven," "The Tell-Tale Heart," "The Fall of the House of Usher," and "The Cask of Amontillado," plus detective Auguste Dupin.
6	"Ligeia"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
6	C. Auguste Dupin	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
5	The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
4	"A Descent into the Maelstrom"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
4	"The Bells"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
4	"The Cask of Amontillado"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
4	"The Imp of the Perverse"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
3	"The Conqueror Worm"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
3	"The Pit and the Pendulum"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
3	"The Raven"	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
3	Arthur Gordon Pym	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
3	the house of Usher	unmatched	Edgar Allan Poe	-
50	Nathaniel Hawthorne	exact	-	Dark romancer of Puritan New England: The Scarlet Letter, The House of the Seven Gables, and tales like "Young Goodman Brown," "The Minister's Black Veil," and "Rappaccini's Daughter."
17	The Scarlet Letter	alias	Nathaniel Hawthorne	Hawthorne's novel of Hester Prynne, Pearl, Dimmesdale, and Chillingworth in Puritan Boston; the three scaffold scenes and "The Custom-House" introduction recur in clues.
9	"Rappaccini's Daughter"	alias	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
9	The House of the Seven Gables	alias	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
7	"Young Goodman Brown"	alias	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
5	Hester Prynne	unmatched	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
4	"Dr. Heidegger's Experiment"	unmatched	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
4	"The Custom House"	unmatched	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
4	"The May-Pole of Merry Mount"	unmatched	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
3	"The Birth-Mark"	unmatched	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
3	"The Minister's Black Veil"	unmatched	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
3	Dr. Heidegger	unmatched	Nathaniel Hawthorne	-
48	Herman Melville	unmatched	-	Author of Moby-Dick, Billy Budd, "Bartleby, the Scrivener," and "Benito Cereno"; clues range from the early Polynesian novels Typee and Omoo to The Confidence-Man.
11	Moby-Dick	unmatched	Herman Melville	Melville's whaling epic narrated by Ishmael; Ahab, Queequeg, Starbuck, the Pequod, and chapters like "The Whiteness of the Whale" are stock clues.
9	Ishmael	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
8	Billy Budd	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
6	Benito Cereno	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
6	Billy Budd, Sailor	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
6	Captain Ahab	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
6	Queequeg	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
3	"Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street"	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
3	John Claggart	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
3	The Piazza Tales	unmatched	Herman Melville	-
29	Ralph Waldo Emerson	exact	-	Central Transcendentalist essayist; "Self-Reliance," Nature with its "transparent eyeball," "The American Scholar," and the Divinity School Address dominate clues.
6	"Self-Reliance"	alias	Ralph Waldo Emerson	-
12	Henry David Thoreau	exact	-	Transcendentalist who lived at Walden Pond; Walden and "Civil Disobedience" provide nearly all clues, often alongside his night in jail and Emerson's patronage.
5	Walden Pond	unmatched	Henry David Thoreau	-
4	"Civil Disobedience"	alias	Henry David Thoreau	-
4	Walden	alias	Henry David Thoreau	-
11	Louisa May Alcott	unmatched	-	Author of Little Women and its sequels; questions cite the four March sisters, Hospital Sketches, and the sensation fiction she published as A. M. Barnard.
5	Little Women	unmatched	Louisa May Alcott	-
3	Josephine March	unmatched	Louisa May Alcott	-
3	March family	unmatched	Louisa May Alcott	-
8	Margaret Fuller	unmatched	-	-
8	Transcendentalism	unmatched	-	-
3	Edgar Allen Poe	unmatched	-	-
