50	Henry James	exact	-	Expatriate master of the psychological novel: The Portrait of a Lady, The Turn of the Screw, The Ambassadors, Daisy Miller, and The Wings of the Dove.
6	Daisy Miller	alias	Henry James	-
6	The Ambassadors	alias	Henry James	-
6	The Turn of The Screw	alias	Henry James	-
5	"The Beast in the Jungle"	alias	Henry James	 [merge? variants: The Jungle -> "The Beast in the Jungle"]
5	The Bostonians	alias	Henry James	-
5	The Portrait of a Lady	alias	Henry James	-
5	Washington Square	alias	Henry James	-
3	The Wings of the Dove	unmatched	Henry James	-
37	Mark Twain	unmatched	-	Samuel Clemens, humorist of the Mississippi: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, Tom Sawyer, "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County," A Connecticut Yankee, and Pudd'nhead Wilson.
14	Jim	unmatched	Mark Twain	The enslaved man who escapes down the Mississippi with Huck Finn; Percival Everett's 2024 retelling James has made him an especially current character answerline.
10	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn	unmatched	Mark Twain	Twain's novel of Huck and Jim rafting down the Mississippi; the Duke and the Dauphin, the Grangerford feud, and "All right, then, I'll go to hell" recur as clues.
6	Huckleberry Finn	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
5	Roughing It	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
4	"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County"	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
4	"The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg"	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
4	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
4	Hadleyburg	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
3	The Innocents Abroad	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
3	Tom Sawyer	unmatched	Mark Twain	-
35	Stephen Crane	exact	-	Naturalist who died at twenty-eight: The Red Badge of Courage, Maggie: A Girl of the Streets, "The Open Boat," and the poetry collection War Is Kind.
11	The Red Badge of Courage	alias	Stephen Crane	Crane's Civil War novel of Henry Fleming, who flees his first battle and envies the wounded their "red badge"; the tall soldier Jim Conklin's death is a stock clue.
5	"The Open Boat"	alias	Stephen Crane	-
5	The Black Riders and Other Lines	unmatched	Stephen Crane	-
4	"The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky"	alias	Stephen Crane	-
4	Maggie Johnson	unmatched	Stephen Crane	-
3	Maggie: A Girl of the Streets	alias	Stephen Crane	-
33	Kate Chopin	exact	-	Louisiana local colorist; The Awakening plus the stories "The Story of an Hour" and "Désirée's Baby" make her a fixture at every difficulty.
19	The Awakening	alias	Kate Chopin	Chopin's 1899 novel of Edna Pontellier's sexual and artistic awakening at Grand Isle, ending as she swims out into the Gulf; Robert Lebrun and Mademoiselle Reisz appear in clues.
5	"Desiree's Baby"	alias	Kate Chopin	-
3	"The Story of An Hour"	alias	Kate Chopin	-
3	Desiree	unmatched	Kate Chopin	-
3	Edna Pontellier	unmatched	Kate Chopin	-
31	Edith Wharton	unmatched	-	Novelist of Old New York society: The House of Mirth, The Age of Innocence with Newland Archer and Ellen Olenska, and the bleak New England novella Ethan Frome.
12	The House of Mirth	unmatched	Edith Wharton	Wharton's novel of Lily Bart's social fall in New York, ending with her chloral overdose; Lawrence Selden and the tableaux vivants scene are common clues.
9	The Age of Innocence	unmatched	Edith Wharton	-
7	Ethan Frome	unmatched	Edith Wharton	-
5	Countess Ellen Olenska	unmatched	Edith Wharton	-
4	Lily Bart	unmatched	Edith Wharton	-
4	The Custom of the Country	unmatched	Edith Wharton	-
3	"Roman Fever"	unmatched	Edith Wharton	-
29	Willa Cather	exact	-	Novelist of the Nebraska prairie and the Southwest: My Ántonia, O Pioneers!, The Song of the Lark, and Death Comes for the Archbishop. [merge? variants: Willa Sibert Cather -> Willa Cather]
10	O Pioneers!	alias	Willa Cather	First of Cather's prairie trilogy: Alexandra Bergson builds up the Nebraska farm, while her brother Emil and Marie Shabata are shot under a mulberry tree by Marie's husband Frank.
5	The Song of the Lark	alias	Willa Cather	-
4	Death Comes for the Archbishop	alias	Willa Cather	-
4	My Antonia	alias	Willa Cather	-
4	The Professor's House	unmatched	Willa Cather	-
23	Jack London	unmatched	-	Klondike naturalist: The Call of the Wild's dog Buck, White Fang, "To Build a Fire," and The Sea-Wolf's captain Wolf Larsen dominate questions.
7	"To Build a Fire"	unmatched	Jack London	-
4	The Call of the Wild	unmatched	Jack London	-
4	The Sea-Wolf	unmatched	Jack London	-
3	The Iron Heel	unmatched	Jack London	-
17	Ambrose Bierce	exact	-	Sardonic Civil War veteran: "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge," "Chickamauga," and The Devil's Dictionary; his 1913 disappearance into revolutionary Mexico is a favorite clue.
4	"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"	alias	Ambrose Bierce	-
4	"Chickamauga"	alias	Ambrose Bierce	-
3	The Old Gringo	alias	Ambrose Bierce	-
17	Harriet Beecher Stowe	unmatched	-	Abolitionist author of Uncle Tom's Cabin, the century's best-selling novel; clues add A Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, Dred, and Oldtown Folks.
16	Uncle Tom's Cabin	unmatched	Harriet Beecher Stowe	Stowe's 1852 anti-slavery novel: Tom, Little Eva, Eliza crossing the icy Ohio, Topsy, and the brutal overseer Simon Legree are the standard clues.
3	Uncle Tom	unmatched	Harriet Beecher Stowe	-
3	Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly	unmatched	Harriet Beecher Stowe	-
17	O. Henry	unmatched	-	Pen name of William Sydney Porter, the twist-ending story writer: "The Gift of the Magi," "The Ransom of Red Chief," and "The Cop and the Anthem"; he began writing in prison.
8	"The Ransom of Red Chief"	unmatched	O. Henry	-
4	"The Gift Of The Magi"	unmatched	O. Henry	-
17	Theodore Dreiser	unmatched	-	Naturalist of Sister Carrie, tracing Carrie Meeber's rise and Hurstwood's ruin, and An American Tragedy, in which Clyde Griffiths lets Roberta Alden drown. [merge? variants: Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser -> Theodore Dreiser]
8	Sister Carrie	unmatched	Theodore Dreiser	-
6	An American Tragedy	unmatched	Theodore Dreiser	-
3	Jennie Gerhardt	unmatched	Theodore Dreiser	-
17	William Dean Howells	exact	-	The "Dean of American Letters," realist novelist and Atlantic Monthly editor; The Rise of Silas Lapham and A Hazard of New Fortunes are the core clues.
5	Silas Lapham	unmatched	William Dean Howells	-
3	A Hazard of New Fortunes	alias	William Dean Howells	-
16	Bret Harte	unmatched	-	Local colorist of Gold Rush California; "The Luck of Roaring Camp" and "The Outcasts of Poker Flat" provide nearly every clue.
8	"The Outcasts of Poker Flat"	unmatched	Bret Harte	-
5	"The Luck of Roaring Camp"	unmatched	Bret Harte	-
10	Charlotte Perkins Gilman	unmatched	-	Feminist writer of "The Yellow Wallpaper" and the all-female utopia Herland; her treatise Women and Economics also surfaces in Social Science questions.
10	"The Yellow Wallpaper"	unmatched	Charlotte Perkins Gilman	Gilman's story of a woman confined for a "rest cure" who comes to see a creeping woman trapped behind the wallpaper; a protest against the treatment prescribed by Silas Weir Mitchell. [merge? variants: The Yellow Wallpaper -> "The Yellow Wallpaper"]
3	The Yellow Wallpaper	unmatched	Charlotte Perkins Gilman	 [merge? likely variant of: "The Yellow Wallpaper"]
10	Sarah Orne Jewett	unmatched	-	Maine regionalist of The Country of the Pointed Firs and "A White Heron," in which young Sylvia refuses to reveal the heron's nest to a visiting ornithologist.
5	The Country of the Pointed Firs	unmatched	Sarah Orne Jewett	-
3	"A White Heron"	unmatched	Sarah Orne Jewett	-
7	Frank Norris	unmatched	-	-
7	Henry Adams	unmatched	-	-
6	Booth Tarkington	unmatched	-	-
5	McTeague	unmatched	-	-
5	The Education of Henry Adams	unmatched	-	-
4	"The Lady, or the Tiger?"	alias	-	-
4	Edna Ferber	unmatched	-	-
4	Looking Backward: 2000-1887	unmatched	-	-
4	realism	unmatched	-	-
4	Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Theodore Dreiser]
4	Willa Sibert Cather	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Willa Cather]
3	Horatio Alger	unmatched	-	-
3	Joel Chandler Harris	unmatched	-	-
3	Madame Butterfly	unmatched	-	-
3	Upton Sinclair	unmatched	-	-
5	The Jungle	unmatched	Upton Sinclair	 [merge? likely variant of: "The Beast in the Jungle"]
3	Oil!	unmatched	Upton Sinclair	-
