39	Sylvia Plath	exact	-	Confessional poet of Ariel — "Daddy," "Lady Lazarus" ("I eat men like air") — and The Colossus; The Bell Jar and her marriage to Ted Hughes appear constantly.
13	The Bell Jar	alias	Sylvia Plath	Plath's autobiographical novel of Esther Greenwood's New York magazine internship, breakdown, and shock treatment; first published under the pseudonym Victoria Lucas.
7	Ariel	alias	Sylvia Plath	-
7	Ted Hughes	exact	Sylvia Plath	-
6	"Daddy"	alias	Sylvia Plath	-
4	Esther Greenwood	unmatched	Sylvia Plath	-
4	Sylvia Plath's father	unmatched	Sylvia Plath	-
3	"Lady Lazarus"	alias	Sylvia Plath	-
33	Elizabeth Bishop	exact	-	Meticulous poet of "One Art" ("the art of losing isn't hard to master"), "The Fish," "In the Waiting Room," and "The Moose"; lived for years in Brazil with Lota de Macedo Soares.
4	"One Art"	alias	Elizabeth Bishop	-
3	"The Armadillo"	alias	Elizabeth Bishop	-
3	"The Fish"	alias	Elizabeth Bishop	-
21	Allen Ginsberg	exact	-	Beat poet of "Howl," "America," and "Kaddish," his elegy for his mother Naomi; "A Supermarket in California" imagines meeting Whitman among the groceries.
16	"Howl"	alias	Allen Ginsberg	Ginsberg's Beat epic beginning "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness"; addresses Carl Solomon ("I'm with you in Rockland"), rails against Moloch, and survived a 1957 obscenity trial.
5	Rockland	unmatched	Allen Ginsberg	-
4	"Kaddish"	alias	Allen Ginsberg	-
21	Robert Lowell	exact	-	Founder of confessional poetry with Life Studies; "Skunk Hour," "For the Union Dead," and "Memories of West Street and Lepke," from his conscientious-objector jail term, recur.
6	"Skunk Hour"	alias	Robert Lowell	-
5	"For the Union Dead"	alias	Robert Lowell	-
3	Life Studies	alias	Robert Lowell	-
19	Jack Kerouac	exact	-	Beat novelist of On the Road, typed on a continuous scroll, with Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty; The Dharma Bums and Big Sur also appear.
8	On the Road	alias	Jack Kerouac	-
3	Sal Paradise	unmatched	Jack Kerouac	-
17	Adrienne Rich	exact	-	Feminist poet of "Diving into the Wreck," "Aunt Jennifer's Tigers," and Snapshots of a Daughter-in-Law; she refused the National Medal of Arts in 1997.
17	Anne Sexton	exact	-	Confessional poet who began writing in therapy: To Bedlam and Part Way Back, the Pulitzer-winning Live or Die, and the fairy-tale revisions of Transformations.
16	John Ashbery	exact	-	New York School poet whose Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror, on Parmigianino's painting, swept the Pulitzer, National Book Award, and NBCC; famously difficult and prolific.
5	"Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror"	alias	John Ashbery	-
13	Confessional Poetry	override	-	Movement label for intensely autobiographical postwar verse; Lowell's Life Studies, Plath, Sexton, Berryman, and W. D. Snodgrass's Heart's Needle are the canonical clues.
13	Frank O'Hara	exact	-	New York School poet and MoMA curator; Lunch Poems pieces like "The Day Lady Died," on Billie Holiday's death, and "Why I Am Not a Painter" recur.
3	Lunch Poems	alias	Frank O'Hara	-
12	John Berryman	exact	-	Confessional poet of The Dream Songs, starring Henry and the minstrel-voiced "Mr. Bones," and Homage to Mistress Bradstreet; he jumped from a Minneapolis bridge.
8	The Dream Songs	alias	John Berryman	-
12	Joy Harjo	unmatched	-	Muscogee (Creek) poet and the first Native American U.S. Poet Laureate; "She Had Some Horses," An American Sunrise, and "Perhaps the World Ends Here" are common clues.
12	William S. Burroughs	unmatched	-	Beat author of the cut-up novel Naked Lunch, plus Junky and Queer; he killed his wife Joan Vollmer in a drunken "William Tell" act in Mexico City.
7	Naked Lunch	unmatched	William S. Burroughs	-
11	Beat Generation	unmatched	-	1950s counterculture circle of Ginsberg, Kerouac, Burroughs, and Neal Cassady, centered on City Lights bookstore and the Six Gallery reading; Kerouac coined the name.
11	Randall Jarrell	unmatched	-	Poet-critic best known for the five-line "The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner," which ends "they washed me out of the turret with a hose"; also wrote Pictures from an Institution.
4	"The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner"	unmatched	Randall Jarrell	-
10	Charles Bukowski	unmatched	-	Skid-row poet-novelist of Los Angeles and his alter ego Henry Chinaski: Post Office, Ham on Rye, Factotum, and thousands of plainspoken poems.
9	Delmore Schwartz	exact	-	-
3	"In Dreams Begin Responsibilities"	alias	Delmore Schwartz	-
9	Gary Snyder	unmatched	-	-
3	Turtle Island	unmatched	Gary Snyder	-
8	Lawrence Ferlinghetti	exact	-	-
5	A Coney Island of the Mind	alias	Lawrence Ferlinghetti	-
8	Richard Brautigan	unmatched	-	-
5	Trout Fishing in America	unmatched	Richard Brautigan	-
5	Black Mountain poets	unmatched	-	-
5	City Lights Bookstore	unmatched	-	-
5	Louise Gluck	unmatched	-	-
5	Natasha Trethewey	unmatched	-	-
5	Richard Wilbur	unmatched	-	-
5	Rita Dove	unmatched	-	-
5	Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV	unmatched	-	-
5	Theodore Roethke	unmatched	-	-
4	Ada Limon	unmatched	-	-
4	Kenneth Koch	unmatched	-	-
4	Mary Oliver	unmatched	-	-
4	Muriel Rukeyser	unmatched	-	-
4	slam poetry	unmatched	-	-
4	The Changing Light at Sandover	unmatched	-	-
4	Yusef Komunyakaa	unmatched	-	-
3	A. R. Ammons	unmatched	-	-
3	Anthony Hecht	unmatched	-	-
3	Billy Collins	unmatched	-	-
3	Buddhism	unmatched	-	-
3	Charles Simic	unmatched	-	-
3	James Dickey	unmatched	-	-
3	James Wright	unmatched	-	-
3	Night Sky With Exit Wounds	unmatched	Ocean Vuong	-
3	Robert Hass	unmatched	-	-
3	Shel Silverstein	unmatched	-	-
3	spoken word poetry	unmatched	-	-
3	Thom Gunn	unmatched	-	-
