29	New York City	unmatched	-	Ubiquitous common link: Whitman's ferries, Hart Crane's bridge, the Harlem Renaissance, Bartleby's Wall Street, and Gatsby's West Egg parties all feed clues.
28	California	unmatched	-	Common link via Steinbeck's valleys, Didion's essays, Bret Harte's mining camps, the Los Angeles of Chandler and Nathanael West, and "A Supermarket in California."
28	Vietnam War	unmatched	-	Common link anchored by Tim O'Brien's The Things They Carried and Going After Cacciato, with veteran poets like Yusef Komunyakaa ("Facing It") close behind.
23	Death	override	-	Personified common link: Dickinson's kindly stopping carriage driver, Whitman's dark mother in "Lilacs," and Fences' Troy Maxson wrestling Death, plus countless title clues.
22	Abraham Lincoln	alias	-	Literary common link: Whitman's elegies "O Captain! My Captain!" and "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd," Sandburg's multivolume biography, Lindsay's "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight," and Saunders's Lincoln in the Bardo.
18	American Civil War	unmatched	-	Common link: The Red Badge of Courage, Whitman's Drum-Taps and hospital service, Benét's John Brown's Body, "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge," and Cold Mountain.
17	America	override	-	Ginsberg poem addressing the country directly — "America I've given you all and now I'm nothing" — and ending "I'm putting my queer shoulder to the wheel"; Claude McKay's sonnet of the same title also feeds clues.
17	Chicago	alias	-	Common link: Sandburg's "Hog Butcher for the World" poem, Sister Carrie, Native Son, The Adventures of Augie March, A Raisin in the Sun, and Upton Sinclair's The Jungle.
17	Harlem	alias	-	Usually Hughes's poem asking "What happens to a dream deferred?" — "does it dry up / like a raisin in the sun?" — from Montage of a Dream Deferred; sometimes the neighborhood as a common link.
17	John	unmatched	-	First-name common link spanning many authors and characters named John; answerlines this bare usually come from questions accepting any "John," so treat it as a grab-bag rather than one canonical topic.
17	Paris	unmatched	-	Expatriate common link: Hemingway's A Moveable Feast, Stein's salon at 27 rue de Fleurus, Baldwin's Giovanni's Room, and Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer.
15	baseball	unmatched	-	Common link: Malamud's The Natural, Thayer's "Casey at the Bat," the Polo Grounds prologue of DeLillo's Underworld, Roth's The Great American Novel, and Kinsella's Shoeless Joe.
15	The New Yorker	unmatched	-	The magazine as an answerline: it published "The Lottery" to record hate mail, ran Salinger, Cheever, and Updike's stories, devoted an issue to Hersey's "Hiroshima," and employed Parker and Thurber.
14	Canada	unmatched	-	Common link as a destination of escape: fugitive slaves head there in Uncle Tom's Cabin and Beloved, and it recurs as a border-crossing setting and refuge across American fiction.
14	Mississippi	unmatched	-	Common link covering both state and river: Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha, home state of Welty and Wright, and Twain's Life on the Mississippi and Huck's raft.
13	James	alias	-	As a bare answerline this has usually meant Henry James via surname-accepting clues, but since 2024 it may also be Percival Everett's Booker-winning novel James — check the clues.
13	Massachusetts	unmatched	-	Common link: Puritan Boston in The Scarlet Letter, Dickinson's Amherst, Thoreau's Walden Pond, Lowell's "For the Union Dead," and the Salem of The Crucible.
12	autobiography	unmatched	-	Genre common link: Franklin's Autobiography, The Autobiography of Malcolm X, Stein's The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas, and Johnson's The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man.
12	Robert	unmatched	-	First-name common link — Frost, Lowell, Penn Warren, and Hayden among poets alone; like "John," it reflects shared-name common-link questions rather than a single canonical answer.
12	San Francisco	unmatched	-	Common link: the Beats at City Lights and the Six Gallery "Howl" reading, Amy Tan's Chinatown, Hammett's The Maltese Falcon, and Kerouac's Big Sur trips.
11	birds	alias	-	Common link: Poe's raven, Dickinson's "Hope is the thing with feathers," Jewett's white heron, the caged bird of Dunbar and Angelou, and Whitman's mockingbird.
10	China	override	-	Common link led by Pearl S. Buck's The Good Earth and her Nobel Prize, plus Amy Tan's mother-daughter novels and Maxine Hong Kingston's The Woman Warrior.
10	John Brown	unmatched	-	Common link on the abolitionist in literature: Benét's epic John Brown's Body, Thoreau's "A Plea for Captain John Brown," and James McBride's The Good Lord Bird.
9	Florida	unmatched	-	-
9	Franz Kafka	exact	-	-
9	George Washington	unmatched	-	-
9	Georgia	unmatched	-	-
9	Los Angeles	unmatched	-	-
9	Lowell	alias	-	-
9	Maine	unmatched	-	-
9	New Orleans	unmatched	-	-
9	rain	unmatched	-	-
9	World War I	unmatched	-	-
9	Yiddish	unmatched	-	-
8	American Revolution	unmatched	-	-
8	Philip	unmatched	-	-
8	plums	unmatched	-	-
8	singing	unmatched	-	-
7	9/11	unmatched	-	-
7	Anne Frank	unmatched	-	-
7	Boston	unmatched	-	-
7	Brooklyn	unmatched	-	-
7	Chinese-American	unmatched	-	-
7	dreams	unmatched	-	-
7	Eugene	unmatched	-	-
7	Federico Garcia Lorca	unmatched	-	-
7	Helen of Troy	unmatched	-	-
7	Jorge Luis Borges	exact	-	-
7	letters	unmatched	-	-
7	Mexico	unmatched	-	-
7	Philip Larkin	exact	-	-
7	snow	alias	-	-
7	the revolution	unmatched	-	-
7	trees	unmatched	-	-
6	Adolf Hitler	unmatched	-	-
6	Africa	override	-	-
6	American	unmatched	-	-
6	bees	unmatched	-	-
6	blue	unmatched	-	-
6	Boston, Massachusetts	unmatched	-	-
6	boxing	unmatched	-	-
6	Brown	unmatched	-	-
6	Christopher Columbus	unmatched	-	-
6	dogs	unmatched	-	-
6	Esquire	unmatched	-	-
6	eyes	unmatched	-	-
6	France	unmatched	-	-
6	ghosts	alias	-	-
6	Harold Bloom	unmatched	-	-
6	hawks	unmatched	-	-
6	hope	unmatched	-	-
6	Iowa	unmatched	-	-
6	love	unmatched	-	-
6	soldiers	unmatched	-	-
6	summer	unmatched	-	-
6	teachers	unmatched	-	-
6	Thomas Jefferson	unmatched	-	-
6	United States of America	unmatched	-	-
6	United States Poet Laureate	unmatched	-	-
6	World War II	unmatched	-	-
6	Wright	unmatched	-	-
5	alcoholism	unmatched	-	-
5	Alice Adams	unmatched	-	-
5	Anatole France	unmatched	-	-
5	bars	unmatched	-	-
5	Billiards at Half-Past Nine	alias	-	-
5	Blindness	alias	-	-
5	Chicago, Illinois	unmatched	-	-
5	Crane	alias	-	-
5	Daniel Webster	unmatched	-	-
5	e	unmatched	-	-
5	fire	unmatched	-	-
5	French	unmatched	-	-
