44	Ernest Hemingway	unmatched	-	Iceberg-theory stylist: The Sun Also Rises, A Farewell to Arms, For Whom the Bell Tolls, The Old Man and the Sea, and stories like "Hills Like White Elephants" and "The Killers." [merge? variants: Ernest Miller Hemingway -> Ernest Hemingway]
6	A Moveable Feast	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
6	Nick Adams	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
5	"Hills like White Elephants"	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
5	"The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber"	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
5	"The Snows of Kilimanjaro"	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
5	In Our Time	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
5	The Old Man and the Sea	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
5	The Sun Also Rises	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
4	For Whom the Bell Tolls	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
3	"Big Two-Hearted River"	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
3	A Farewell to Arms	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
3	Frederic Henry	unmatched	Ernest Hemingway	-
28	Gertrude Stein	exact	-	Expatriate salon host who told Hemingway "you are all a lost generation"; The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas, Tender Buttons, Three Lives, and "a rose is a rose is a rose" supply clues.
27	F. Scott Fitzgerald	exact	-	Jazz Age chronicler: The Great Gatsby, Tender Is the Night, This Side of Paradise, and stories including "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" and "Babylon Revisited."
13	The Great Gatsby	alias	F. Scott Fitzgerald	Fitzgerald's novel narrated by Nick Carraway: the green light, the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg over the valley of ashes, and Myrtle's death under Daisy's driving are giveaways.
9	This Side of Paradise	alias	F. Scott Fitzgerald	-
7	"The Diamond as Big as the Ritz"	unmatched	F. Scott Fitzgerald	-
7	Tender is the Night	alias	F. Scott Fitzgerald	-
5	Bernice	unmatched	F. Scott Fitzgerald	-
4	"Winter Dreams"	alias	F. Scott Fitzgerald	-
4	Zelda Fitzgerald	unmatched	F. Scott Fitzgerald	-
3	Daisy Buchanan	unmatched	F. Scott Fitzgerald	-
19	Thornton Wilder	unmatched	-	Playwright-novelist: Our Town, The Skin of Our Teeth, and The Matchmaker (source of Hello, Dolly!), plus the Pulitzer-winning novel The Bridge of San Luis Rey. [merge? variants: Thornton Niven Wilder -> Thornton Wilder]
17	John Steinbeck	unmatched	-	Chronicler of Depression-era California: The Grapes of Wrath, Of Mice and Men with George and Lennie, East of Eden, and Cannery Row.
12	The Grapes of Wrath	unmatched	John Steinbeck	Steinbeck's novel of the Joads' migration from the Oklahoma Dust Bowl to California; Tom Joad's "I'll be there" speech, ex-preacher Jim Casy, and Rose of Sharon's final gesture are giveaways.
11	East of Eden	unmatched	John Steinbeck	Steinbeck's Salinas Valley retelling of Cain and Abel across the Trask family; the Hebrew word timshel ("thou mayest") and the villainous Cathy Ames anchor clues.
6	Cannery Row	unmatched	John Steinbeck	-
6	Of Mice and Men	unmatched	John Steinbeck	-
3	The Pearl	alias	John Steinbeck	-
13	John Dos Passos	unmatched	-	Modernist of the U.S.A. trilogy, famous for its Newsreel and Camera Eye collage sections; Manhattan Transfer and Three Soldiers also appear. [merge? variants: John Roderigo Dos Passos -> John Dos Passos]
11	Nathanael West	exact	-	Darkly comic novelist of Miss Lonelyhearts, about an advice columnist, and The Day of the Locust, whose Hollywood mob riot and painting "The Burning of Los Angeles" are stock clues.
6	Miss Lonelyhearts	alias	Nathanael West	-
6	The Day of the Locust	alias	Nathanael West	-
11	Sinclair Lewis	exact	-	First American winner of the literature Nobel; his satires of Midwestern conformity — Main Street, Babbitt, Arrowsmith, Elmer Gantry, and It Can't Happen Here — supply the clues.
7	Babbitt	alias	Sinclair Lewis	-
6	It Can't Happen Here	alias	Sinclair Lewis	-
5	Main Street	alias	Sinclair Lewis	-
3	Arrowsmith	alias	Sinclair Lewis	-
3	Elmer Gantry	alias	Sinclair Lewis	-
8	Ernest Miller Hemingway	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Ernest Hemingway]
8	Sherwood Anderson	unmatched	-	-
21	Winesburg, Ohio	unmatched	Sherwood Anderson	Sherwood Anderson's linked story cycle about small-town "grotesques," framed by "The Book of the Grotesque" and unified by young reporter George Willard; "Hands" opens the cycle.
4	George Willard	unmatched	Sherwood Anderson	-
3	Wing Biddlebaum	unmatched	Sherwood Anderson	-
7	Edmund Wilson	unmatched	-	-
7	Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald	unmatched	-	-
7	Henry Miller	unmatched	-	-
5	Tropic of Cancer	unmatched	Henry Miller	-
6	Algonquin Round Table	unmatched	-	-
5	Djuna Barnes	unmatched	-	-
3	Nightwood	unmatched	Djuna Barnes	-
5	James Thurber	unmatched	-	 [merge? variants: James Grover Thurber -> James Thurber]
5	Let Us Now Praise Famous Men	unmatched	-	-
4	Anais Nin	unmatched	-	-
3	Call It Sleep	unmatched	-	-
3	Fitzgerald	alias	-	-
3	H. L. Mencken	unmatched	-	-
3	John Roderigo Dos Passos	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: John Dos Passos]
3	Ring Lardner	unmatched	-	-
3	Save Me the Waltz	unmatched	-	-
3	stream-of-consciousness	unmatched	-	-
3	Walter Mitty	unmatched	-	-
6	Thornton Niven Wilder	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: Thornton Wilder]
5	The Bridge of San Luis Rey	unmatched	Thornton Niven Wilder	-
4	James Grover Thurber	unmatched	-	 [merge? likely variant of: James Thurber]
