=== STOCK CLUES: Guido Reni ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Guido Reni
  - A copy of a portrait usually attributed to this man hangs in the hallway of Aunt Ruth's apartment in Mulholland Drive.
  - This man allegedly painted that portrait after visiting its subject in prison just before her execution.
  - In another work, this painter showed Saint Michael slaying a monster who has the face of Innocent X.
  - Elisabetta Sirani is sometimes given as the artist of a portrait by this man, in which a young woman in a white turban and white robes looks over her shoulder.
  - That portrait of Beatrice Cenci by this man inspired a play by Percy Shelley.
  - The Palazzo Pallavicini Rospigliosi  holds the masterpiece of this student of Annibale Carraci, a ceiling fresco that shows the Hours circling around Apollo's chariot as the title Roman goddess floats ahead of the procession, bringing the dawn.
  - For 10 points, name this Baroque artist from Bologna who painted Aurora. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a painting that decorates this building, a figure holding a horn of plenty reclines beneath a bare-breasted woman who wears a feathered headdress, carries a bow, and rides a crocodile. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wurzburg Residence [or Wurzburger Residenz]):
    Name this palace which includes the largest ceiling fresco in the world, showing Apollo presiding over allegorical depictions of Europe, Asia, Africa, and America.
  Part 2 (ans: Venice [or Venezia; or Venexia]):
    After spending three years painting the frescoes at the Wurzburg Residence, Giovanni Tiepolo returned to this city, where he painted yet another monumental ceiling fresco for the Palazzo Labia. Tiepolo first made his name by decorating the Palazzo Ca' Dolfin along this city's Grand Canal.
  Part 3 (ans: Guido Reni):
    Though Tiepolo, for once, chose a small scale for his 1734 painting The Chariot of Aurora, this earlier Baroque Italian painter from Bologna covered the entire ceiling of the Casino dell'Aurora in Rome with a fresco showing the goddess leading Apollo in his chariot.

[B2] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: King Wladislaw IV of Poland commissioned this artist's version of The Rape of Europa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Guido Reni):
    Name this Italian artist of the Bolognese School, who adopted many of the color techniques of his mentor Annibale Carracci. A painting by this man supposedly inspired Shelley's drama The Cenci.
  Part 2 (ans: Aurora):
    Guido Reni's most monumental fresco depicts Apollo in his chariot with the radiance of this figure in front of him. A casino named for this woman houses that painting commissioned by Cardinal Scipio Borghese.
  Part 3 (ans: tenebrism [accept word forms]):
    Guido Reni's bright style stands in contrast to this technique adopted by his fellow Baroque artist Caravaggio, which uses colors to create a "dark" and "murky" effect. This technique, whose name comes from the Latin for "night" or "darkness," is often interchanged with chiaroscuro.

[B3] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about paintings held in the Uffizi gallery, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The Birth of Venus ):
    Among the most recognizable works currently held at the Uffizi is this work depicting a goddess of love standing on a clamshell.
  Part 2 (ans: Madonna of the Goldfinch ):
    This work by Raphael in the Uffizi shows the virgin Mary holding a book while kneeling as a young Jesus and John the Baptist play with a bird.
  Part 3 (ans: Guido Reni):
    A self-portrait of this Italian baroque painter also hangs in the Uffizi. He also painted Apollo and his chariot in a massive fresco for the Casino dell'Aurora and a fresco called St. Dominic's Glory for the Basilica of San Domenico.
