=== STOCK CLUES: Aime Cesaire ===
Tossup questions: 9 found, 54 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 42 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aime Cesaire
  - The speaker of a poem by this author recites "the black vocable / Me me me" while saluting a monument to the author of Youma. [PWR]
  - This poet wrote "your eyes were a sea conch" to open an elegy for a 15-year old "Chicago Boy." This poet wrote "there is a place for all at the rendezvous of victory" in a long poem set in an "inert town" which has been "dynamited by alcohol." This poet included an elegy for Emmett Till and the poem "Statue of Lafcadio Hearn" in the collections Lost Body and (*) Ferraments, respectively.
  - The speaker of a poem by this author says "beat it...you cop, you lousy pig" after the first instance of the line "At the end of daybreak" and is disgusted by a statue of Empress Josephine.
  - In high school, this author met his longtime collaborator Leon Damas.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Notebook of a Return to my Native Land, a Martinican co-founder of Negritude. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Haiti [or Republic of Haiti; or Republique d'Haiti; or Repiblik d Ayiti] (The play is The Tragedy of King Christophe by Aime Cesaire.)
  - A 1975 novel set in this country titled for a "cockfight" was the first written in one of its languages and is by the mononymous Franketienne .
  - In a play, this country's king appoints the dukes of Lemonade and Marmalade and is haunted by the ghost of a murdered bishop.
  - In a novel set in this country that embodies the "marvelous real," a one-armed revolutionary transforms into a succession of animals.
  - In a 1994 novel, a girl from this country named Sophie is kicked out of her Brooklyn house after failing her mother's virginity test.
  - This country is the setting of Alejo Carpentier's The Kingdom of This World and the birthplace of the author of Krik?
  - Krak! and Breath, Eyes, Memory.
  - For 10 points, name this birth country of Edwidge Danticat , who grew up speaking its French-derived Creole. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aime Cesaire
  - In a play by this author, the "Christ-killer" Matthew Cordelier aids the downfall of a man who cries "you are the invention of the past, I am the inventor of the future!" before being bayoneted.
  - Five nameless bankers panic over the arrival of "Dependa" in a play by this author that features several banal arguments over the beer brands Primus and Polar.
  - In a play by this author, an old man's rant about opossums overrunning his land and the hero's encounter with two drunks under a wheelbarrow are punctuated by the refrain "Freedom, hi-day!" In that play by this author, Eshu shows up uninvited to a masque put on by the Greek gods.
  - Gayatri Spivak translated this author's play about Patrice Lumumba.
  - In a play by this author, the name "X" is claimed by Caliban.
  - For 10 points, name this Martinician playwright of A Season in the Congo and Une Tempete . [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Cesaire [or Aime Cesaire; or Suzanne Cesaire; or Ina Cesaire]
  - A playwright with this surname was inspired by her grandmothers for the characters Aure and Hermance in her play Island Memories. [PWR]
  - An author with this surname who worked with Andre Breton wrote "1943: Surrealism and Us" and "The Great Camouflage." A character in a play by an author with this surname states "I hate that image... and it's false" after plotting a revolution. [PWR]
  - With Rene Menil, a husband and wife with this surname published the journal (*) Tropiques.
  - The instruction "call me X" appears in a play by an author with this surname that includes the god Eshu and the "mulatto slave" Ariel.
  - A poem by that author with this surname repeats "at the end of daybreak" and was from the Negritude movement.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author of A Tempest and Notebook of a Return to the Native Land. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 MUSES III (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Aime Cesaire [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]
  - During a scene transition in a play by this author, a voice behind the theater warns that "the buffalo has grown furious" as a cramped bar scene is set. [PWR]
  - At the end of another play by this author, an old man bemoans how opossums have overrun his land before shouts of "FREEDOM HI-DAY" are heard in the distance. [PWR]
  - An ambassador claims to represent the "firemen of the world" fighting communism in a play by this author punctuated by the musings of a (+) sanza player.
  - That play's protagonist is thrown in jail by the rebel Mokutu.
  - In another drama by this author, "a really big guy to do the wind" is called for in the introduction by a Master of Ceremonies.
  - This author depicted the last months of (*) Patrice Lumumba in A Season in the Congo. [PWR]
  - The "black devil-god" Eshu appears in a play by this author that ends with a mulatto character being freed, but not a Black man who rejects his French name.
  - For 10 points, the slave Caliban decides to go by the name 'X' in an adaptation of The Tempest written by what Negritude author? [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aime Cesaire
  - A speech by a character in a play created by this author ends with the phrase 'I hate that image...and it's false!'.
  - A poem by this author repeats a refrain that translates as 'in this inert town' and was only published in full due to an intervention by Andre Breton.
  - In a play by this author, a character is reprimanded for greeting a man with the word 'Uhuru'.
  - This author asked a friend toward the end of their life 'Who am I?
  - Who are we?
  - What are we in this white world?', questions that form the basis of the literary movement they helped to found.
  - This author wrote a dramatisation of the life of Patrice Lumumba, as well as a French-language adaptation of The Tempest.
  - For 10 points, name this author from Martinique, a co-founder of negritude. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Aime Cesaire ("ay-MAY say-ZAIR") [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]
  - The title character of a play by this author is haunted by the ghost of the archbishop Corneille Brelle and commits suicide after speaking with the jester Hugonin.
  - At the end of another play by this author, a character shouts, "You-me, me-you!
  - What in the hell is he up to?" before hearing the repeated chant of "FREEDOM HI-DAY!" A "man whose name was stolen" urges another character to "call me X" in a play by this author of The Tragedy of King Christophe.
  - This playwright, who featured the trickster god Eshu in a postcolonial adaptation of a play that reimagines Ariel and Caliban as Prospero's slaves, founded an Afro-diasporic literary movement with Leopold Senghor.
  - For 10 points, Une Tempete  is a play by what Martinican playwright and proponent of Negritude? [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aime Cesaire [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]
  - In a poem by this author, the line "I accept...
  - I accept totally, without reservation" precedes a long list of images such as "the four foot high cell," "the yaws," and "the mastiff." After noting that a certain characteristic is "not a leukoma of dead liquid over the earth's dead eye," a poem by this author praises "those who have invented neither powder nor compass." An essay by this author proclaims "Europe is indefensible" and presents an equation that equates its title concept with "thingification." A poem by this author imagines a statue of a "liberator fixed in his whitewashed stone liberation" standing above "the inert town." The speaker recalls saying "Beat it... you cop, you lousy pig" in a poem by this author that repeats the phrase "at the end of daybreak" and mentions Empress Josephine, who was born in this author's home country of Martinique.
  - For 10 points, Discourse on Colonialism and "Notebook of a Return to the Native Land" are by what co-founder of the Negritude movement? [GIVE]

[T9] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Aime Cesaire
  - This author wrote a play about a character who uses a telescope to monitor workers building the citadel Sans Souci and orders the artillery to blast away a peasant he catches napping.
  - The protagonist of that play falls down and becomes paralyzed after seeing the ghost of murdered archbishop Corneille Brelle while celebrating the Feast of the Assumption at the Church of Lemonade.
  - In another of his plays, the protagonist declines to meet with Ralph Bunche after the UN refuses to intervene in a civil war arranged by General Mokutu.
  - This dramatist wrote a play in which the court jester Hugonin is appointed as the minister of public morality by a revolutionary who overturns president Petion to become King of Haiti.
  - This author of The Tragedy of King Christophe dramatized the assassination of Patrice Lumumba in his play A Season in the Congo.
  - For 10 points, name this author from Martinique, a founder of Negritude along with Leon Damas and Leopold Senghor. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This philosopher adapted a slave trading term for a single healthy 25-year-old male to name the "pieza conceptual frame" that she found in C. L. R. James's Beyond a Boundary. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sylvia Wynter):
    Name this Jamaican philosopher who advocated "being human as praxis" and used the "sociogenic principle" in a historical analysis from "Unsettling the Coloniality of Being."
  Part 2 (ans: Man [or humanity; or humans; or homo sapiens; accept Man1 or Man2; accept Oration on the Dignity of Man or Oratio de hominis dignitate]):
    "Unsettling the Coloniality of Being" traces the historical development of "[this figure]-1" and "[this figure]-2." Wynter traces the "biocentric" concept of this figure to the Renaissance, as in Pico's "Oration on the Dignity of" this figure.
  Part 3 (ans: Aime Cesaire [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]):
    Wynter analyzed how this author's concept of desetre, or "wrongness of being," is imposed on non-Western others in a paper "On How We Mistook the Map for the Territory." This author wrote "Discourse on Colonialism."

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Andre Breton dedicated one of his 8 short poems written on the back of postcards to an author from this island, who wrote about him in the essay "Andre Breton, Poet." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martinique(The "Discourse" is Discourse on Colonialism.)):
    Name this island where Breton contributed to the literary magazine Tropiques("tro-PEEK"). An author from this island wrote a "Discourse" that equates its title concept with "thing-ification."
  Part 2 (ans: Cesaire("say-ZAIR") [accept Aime Cesaire] (The Breton poem in the bonus lead-in is "For Madame Suzanne Cesaire.")):
    A Martinican author with this surname wrote Notebook of a Return to the Native Land, for which Breton wrote an introduction. That author with this surname, who wrote A Tempest, had the first name Aime ("em-AY").
  Part 3 (ans: Surrealism [or Afro-Surrealism]):
    Aime Cesaire's wife, Suzanne Cesaire, helped develop the "Afro-" form of this movement. Breton wrote a manifesto for this artistic movement, which promoted surprising and dreamlike imagery.

[B3] 2024 ARCADIA (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's life is retold through the accounts of his mother Rosa and his wives, Alethea and Setsu, in Monique Truong's 2019 novel The Sweetest Fruits. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lafcadio Hearn [or Patrick Lafcadio Hearn or Yakumo Koizumi]):
    Name this Greek-Irish writer who traveled to New Orleans, the Caribbean, and finally to Japan, where he collected Japanese ghost stories in his book Kwaidan.
  Part 2 (ans: Aime Cesaire [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]):
    Hearn's time in the Caribbean inspired this author to "tender [him] my redundant jug" in the poem "Statue of Lafcadio Hearn." Caliban asks to be called X in this Negritude author's postcolonial retelling of The Tempest.
  Part 3 (ans: Natsume Soseki [or Natsume Kin'nosuke]):
    This author fictionalized Hearn's resignation from the University of Tokyo in the novel Sanshiro. This Japanese author wrote Kokoro and I Am A Cat.

[B4] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman with this surname cofounded the Revue du Monde Noir before working at the nascent United Nations, while another wrote a pioneering essay on "Black internationalism." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nardal [accept Paulette Nardal or Jeanne Nardal]):
    Give this surname of several Martinican ("mar-tin-EEK-in") sisters, including Paulette and Jeanne, whose Clamart salon was a formative space for the Negritude movement.
  Part 2 (ans: Cesaire ("say-ZAIR") [accept Suzanne Cesaire or Aime Cesaire; prompt on Suzanne Roussi]):
    Another Martinican author with this married surname co-founded the Surrealist-inspired journal Tropiques ("troh-PEEK"). Her husband with this surname wrote Notebook of a Return to my Native Land.
  Part 3 (ans: magical realism [or realismo magico; or marvelous realism; or lo real maravilloso]):
    Patrick Chamoiseau ("sham-wa-ZOH"), who responded to earlier Martinican movements by championing creolite, drew on this literary genre for the novel Texaco. Alejo Carpentier is sometimes credited with naming this genre that combines fantastical and mundane elements.

[B5] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about literature depicting the Haitian Revolution.
  Part 1 (ans: Isabel Allende (aye-END-ay) [or Isabel Angelica Allende Llona]):
    The slave Tete (TAY-tay) flees to New Orleans during the Haitian Revolution in Island Beneath the Sea, a 2009 novel by this Chilean author of The House of the Spirits.
  Part 2 (ans: Aime Cesaire (ay-MAY say-ZAIR) ):
    The aftermath of the Haitian Revolution is depicted in The Tragedy of King Christophe, a 1963 play by this author. This author from Martinique wrote a postcolonial reinterpretation of The Tempest titled A Tempest.
  Part 3 (ans: marvelous [or marvelous reality; or the marvelous real; or maravilloso (ma-ra-bee-OH-so); do not accept "magic" or "magical realism"]):
    In the influential preface to The Kingdom of This World, Alejo Carpentier (ah-LAY-ho car-pen-tee-AIR) links visiting historic sites from the Haitian Revolution to literature depicting this concept. The preface ends by stating "But what is the history of America if not a chronicle of this concept in the real?"

[B6] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this married surname wrote, "Real poetry lies elsewhere. Far from rhymes, laments ... And to hell with hibiscus, frangipani, and bougainvillea" in an essay published in Tropiques. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cesaire [accept Aime Cesaire or Suzanne Cesaire] (The essay is "The Great Camouflage.")):
    Give this surname of an author who calls beauty "the false claim of the stone" in Notebook of a Return to My Native Land.
  Part 2 (ans: Nadja):
    Suzanne Cesaire claimed that "Martinican poetry shall be cannibal or nothing at all," which likely references the closing line of this novel, "Beauty shall be CONVULSIVE or will not be at all."
  Part 3 (ans: Surrealism [accept Surrealist Manifesto or Manifeste du surrealisme; accept Afro-Surrealism]):
    Suzanne Cesaire inspired the "Afro-" form of this movement with the credo "permanent readiness for the marvelous." Nadja's author, Andre Breton, wrote a manifesto calling this movement "pure psychic automatism."

[B7] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: For the 1973 version of a play, this author added a darker ending in which soldiers fire into a crowd. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aime Cesaire ("ay-MAY seh-ZAIR") [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]):
    Name this Martinican author of A Tempest, who coined the term Negritude for a movement he co-founded with authors such as Leopold Sedar Senghor.
  Part 2 (ans: A Season in the Congo [or Une saison au Congo]):
    This 1966 play by Cesaire, which depicts the downfall of Patrice ("puh-TREECE") Lumumba, personifies American international power as the "Ambassadeur Grand Occidental."
  Part 3 (ans: Arthur Rimbaud ("rahm-BOH") [or Jean Nicolas Arthur Rimbaud]):
    The title of A Season in the Congo is a reference to the poem A Season in Hell by this prodigious French poet, who had a stormy relationship with Paul Verlaine.

[B8] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author declared, "How many of ME ME ME / have died / since they came that night," in a poem included in the collection Black-Label. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leon-Gontran Damas [or Leon Damas or Lionel Georges Andre Cabassou]):
    Name this poet born in Cayenne. A European colonial government banned this author's first volume of poetry, the 1937 collection Pigments.
  Part 2 (ans: Aime Cesaire ("ay-MAY say-ZAIR") [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]):
    While at school abroad, Damas met this lifelong friend and collaborator. This poet's works include the essay Discourse on Colonialism and the book-length poem Notebook of a Return to My Native Land.
  Part 3 (ans: French [or francais]):
    Damas and Cesaire both wrote in this language. They were both leading figures within the Negritude literary movement, whose name derives from this language.

[B9] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A section of this poem that describes Toussaint Louverture contains the lines "Death traces a shining circle above this man / death stars softly above his head." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Notebook of a Return to the Native Land" [or "Cahier d'un retour au pays natal"]):
    Name this book-length poem that contains a section that repeats the phrase "at the end of daybreak."
  Part 2 (ans: Negritude):
    This postcolonial literary movement advocated for a common racial identity for all native Africans. It was established by the author of "Notebook of a Return to the Native Land" along with Leopold Senghor and Leon Damas.
  Part 3 (ans: Aime Cesaire ("ay-MAY say-ZAIR")):
    This man wrote the influential essay "Discourse on Colonialism" as well as "Notebook of a Return to the Native Land."

[B10] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author satirized Idi Amin as the tyrannical Dr. Kamini in 1984's A Play of Giants. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wole Soyinka [or Akinwande Oluwole Babatunde Soyinka]):
    Name this Nobel-winning Nigerian playwright who also criticized dictators in works like King Baabu and Kongi's Harvest.
  Part 2 (ans: blue and orange [accept in either order; accept Blue/Orange]):
    A personality disorder leads Christopher to believe he is Idi Amin's son in a Joe Penhall play titled for these two colors that Christopher mistakes for one another.
  Part 3 (ans: A Season in the Congo [or Une saison au Congo] (by Aime Cesaire)):
    Chiwetel Ejiofor ("CHEW-uh-tell EDGE-ee-oh-for"), who played Christopher in the premiere of Blue/Orange, starred as Patrice Lumumba in The Young Vic's 2013 production of this 1966 play that concerns Lumumba's fall and eventual assassination.

[B11] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this author's most famous novel, the not-so-subtly named populist Mr. Slime takes donations to fund the Penny Bank and the Friendly Society, and ends up being a more tyrannical landlord than Mr. Creighton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Lamming):
    Name this Barbadian author who fictionalized his upbringing and emigration to England in novels like Season of Adventure, The Emigrants, and In the Castle of My Skin.
  Part 2 (ans: Aime Cesaire [or Aime Fernand David Cesaire]):
    This author described a statue of Josephine that towers over black Africans that feel no connection to her in his surrealist poem Notebook of a Return to My Native Land. This co-founder of Negritude was from Martinique.
  Part 3 (ans: The Tempest [or A Tempest; or Une tempete]):
    Lamming's essay collection The Pleasures of Exile reinterprets this Shakespeare play, which Cesaire adapted from a postcolonial perspective in which Caliban is a black slave and Ariel a white master.

[B12] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man's poems include "At the call of the race of Sheba." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Leopold Senghor):
    Name this author of Nocturnes and Ce que je crois. Jean-Paul Sartre wrote an introduction for his compilation of Francophone poetry entitled Anthology of New Negro and Malagasy Poetry.
  Part 2 (ans: Negritude):
    Senghor helped develop this literary ideology, which affirms international African solidarity and identity, and which takes its name from a French antiblack slur. Its name first appeared in the third issue of L'Etudiant Noir.
  Part 3 (ans: Aime Cesaire):
    Another founder of Negritude includes this Martinican poet of "Notes from a Return to the Native Land", "Discourse on Colonialism," who portrayed Caliban as a hero in Une Tempete.

[B13] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Many authors wrote works inspired by Shakespeare's The Tempest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Browning):
    This Victorian poet had the title character explain his violent worldview in the poem "Caliban upon Setebos". The Duke of Ferrara shows off a portrait of his dead wife in this author's poem "My Last Duchess".
  Part 2 (ans: Aime Cesaire):
    This author of Notebook of a Return to My Native Land and co-founder of the Negritude movement re-imagined Caliban as a black slave to a white Prospero in his A Tempest.
  Part 3 (ans: George Lamming):
    This Barbadian author of the autobiographical novel In the Castle of My Skin drew upon The Tempest in his book about West Indian identity, The Pleasures of Exile.

[B14] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man described "the Antilles pitted with smallpox, the Antilles dynamited with alcohol" in his most famous poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aime Cesaire):
    Name this Martinique poet of Notebook of a Return to the Native Land.
  Part 2 (ans: Negritude):
    Cesaire, along with Leopold Sedar Senghor and Leon Damas, co-founded this literary movement. This postcolonial movement strove to find a common black identity in the face of French racism.
  Part 3 (ans: Derek Walcott):
    This other Caribbean poet from St. Lucia wrote "A Far Cry from Africa" and the play Dream on Monkey Mountain.
