=== STOCK CLUES: The Bell ===
Tossup questions: 14 found, 79 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Mythology
     Answer: inside a fish [or inside a whale; or inside a catfish; or the belly of a whale; prompt on the belly of the beast; prompt on Cambridge or a market before mention with "what more specific location was the book found in?"; prompt on the sea or ocean or other bodies of water] (The firstline refers to the Vox piscis.)
  - Description acceptable.
  - A book by the martyr John Frith found in this type of location at Cambridge's market square in 1626 was interpreted by some Calvinists as an omen of persecution. [PWR]
  - In an Inuit myth, a character finds a beautiful girl dancing in this type of place, but kills her by removing her from it. [PWR]
  - A prized possession is found in this type of place after a man throws it away on the advice of Amasis, who worries about tempting the gods with too much good luck. [PWR]
  - After his usurpation by (*) Asmodeus, King Solomon is restored to power once his seal is recovered from this type of place.
  - Raven enters a place of this type listed by Joseph Campbell following the "Crossing of the First Threshold" as a stage of rebirth in the hero's journey.
  - For 10 points, the ring of Polycrates is recovered from what kind of location, where Jonah spends three days and three nights after refusing to go to Nineveh? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Duke of Berry [or Duc de Berry; or John, Duke of Berry; or Jean, duc de Berry; accept John of France or Jean de France; accept the Tres Riches Heures du Duc de Berry or the Very Rich Hours of the Duke of Berry; prompt on John or Jean] (The second line refers to the Belles Heures of Jean de Berry.)
  - Trumpeting angels top a small golden fortress in a sculpture commissioned by this patron in which enamel, gemstones, and crystal surround a holy thorn.
  - This patron commissioned a work known for its seven picture-book cycles with minimal text, which include the story of Saint Bruno.
  - A gold inscription reading "approche, approche ("uh-PROASH, uh-PROASH")" appears next to a portrait of this patron in blue robes along with a boat-shaped salt cellar during a New Year banquet scene.
  - The Musee Conde  houses an artwork created for this patron that was finished by the Master of the Shadows and Jean de Colombe.
  - This patron commissioned depictions of a deep blue sky and zodiacal lunettes above the Labors of the Months in the Calendar Cycle pages of a Book of Hours.
  - For 10 points, what French duke commissioned the Limbourg brothers to create the Tres Riches Heures ? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: The Bell Jar 
  - A character in this novel spends an extended period of time contemplating the first page of James Joyce's Finnegan's Wake, specifically wondering why Joyce has 100 letters in one word. [PWR]
  - Feeling dissatisfied with a fancy fashion magazine internship in New York City, a character in this novel impulsively (*) throws all of her clothes off of her hotel roof. [PWR]
  - In this novel, Buddy Willard wonders who will date the protagonist after she has been hospitalized in a psychiatric ward.
  - This novel implies that its protagonist will go on to have a baby, a direct contrast to her worry of getting pregnant.
  - For ten points, name this Sylvia Plath novel, which depicts Esther's severe bout of depression and subsequent recovery. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 TELEOLOGY (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: tower [accept "The Broken Tower"; accept "The Bell Tower"]
  - A voice is compared to one of these objects that beats "on an airy shell" in a poem that also describes "marble boys [...] leant from the light throat" and a "temple of precious tissue." That poem titled for one of these objects by Leonie Adams may have been a response to a poem by her more famous childhood friend also titled for one of these things. [PWR]
  - A poem imagines "corps of shadows" inside one of these things, whose "shoulders sway / Antiphonal (*) carillons launched before / The stars are caught and hived in the sun's ray." A poem titled for one of these objects is usually read as an elegy for its author's own death titles a critically-panned 2011 biopic in which he is played by James Franco.
  - A poem titled for one of these things begins "The bell-rope that gathers God at dawn / Dispatches me as though I dropped down the knell." For 10 points, name this type of building that is "broken" in a Hart Crane poem. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: "The Bells"
  - A line of this poem describes objects that "tell the tale/of how days of delusion/will be followed by renewal" in a bewilderingly somber translation. [PWR]
  - Several people in this poem are described as "neither man nor woman" and "neither brute nor human," but as "Ghouls." This poem, which begins by describing "sledges...in the icy air of night" praises the "gush of euphony" of a (*) wedding in its second of four parts. [PWR]
  - The title objects of this poem begin "leaping higher, higher, higher/with a desperate desire" during a fire.
  - Silver, golden, brazen, and iron instruments keep "time, time, time" in a "sort of Runic rhyme" throughout this poem.
  - The word tintinnabulation was coined in, for 10 points, what poem by Edgar Allan Poe? [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Japan (The bells in the second line are dotaku.)
  - In 1992, stadium planners in this country found a six-pillared building that suggests sedentism among a chestnut-eating culture that made bean-applique pottery.
  - Insects and other enemies of the harvest decorate bells dated from this country's late introduction of bronze.
  - Layered clay funerary figures are found in this country's numerous distinctive keyhole-shaped tumuli, which name one of its historical periods.
  - Edward R.
  - Morse excavated shell mounds in this country from hunter-gatherers who are named for their cord-marked pottery.
  - Haniwa and dogu figurines are found in this country, where an emperor is believed to lie in the Daisenryo Kofun.
  - For 10 points, name this country of the Jomon and Yamato people. [GIVE]

[T7] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: For Whom the Bell Tolls
  - After the protagonist of this novel has sex with his love interest, whom he calls his "little rabbit," he asks her "did thee feel the earth move?" This novel begins as it ends, with the protagonist lying on the "pine needle floor of the forest," as he waits to kill a Catholic lieutenant. [PWR]
  - One part of this novel centers on the Russian journalist Karkov, while another part is told from the perspective of a leader who dies defending a hilltop named (*) El Sordo. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of this novel strikes up a relationship with a submissive woman who was recently assaulted shortly after having his palms read by Pilar.
  - After some detonators are thrown down a gorge by Pablo, the protagonist of this novel is forced to use grenades to blow up a bridge.
  - Robert Jordan joins a guerilla group in, for 10 points, what Ernest Hemingway novel set during the Spanish Civil War? [GIVE]

[T8] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: bells [accept African bell pattern or "The Bells of Moscow"; accept tintinnabuli or tintinnabula or tintinnabulum or tintinnabular before "tintinnabuli" is read; do not accept or prompt on "mirrors"]
  - Steve Reich's Clapping Music is based on an African pattern named for these objects.
  - These objects name a [emphasize] compositional style exemplified by a slow F major piece in 6/4 time in which the right hand cycles rising broken triads, usually "C F A," while the left hand alternates longer notes of the tonic chord above and below that, as a violin plays a stepwise diatonic melody. [PWR]
  - These objects name a compositional style exemplified by a piece dedicated to an 18-year-old daughter, Fur Alina, and (*) Spiegel im Spiegel . [PWR]
  - The tierce is tuned a minor third above, and the hum is one octave below, these objects' perceived strike tone.
  - These objects nickname a Prelude in C-sharp minor by Rachmaninoff.
  - A Latin word for the sound of these objects names Estonian composer Arvo Part's  minimalist style, tintinnabuli.
  - For 10 points, name these flared metal objects that are rung in churches. [GIVE]

[T9] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Les Halles de Paris [or The Halls; prompt on The Belly of Paris or Le ventre de Paris]
  - A novel named after this structure includes a passage known as the "cheese symphony" because of its musical descriptions of the smells emanating from a cheese shop. [PWR]
  - A painter in that novel quotes Victor Hugo's line "This will kill that" to suggest that this structure would ruin the nearby church of Saint-Eustache. [PWR]
  - This iron-and-glass structure was the major work of the architect Victor Baltard. [PWR]
  - In the 1970s this structure was (*) demolished, resulting in a much-hated open pit, which remained for several years until this structure was replaced by a mostly underground shopping mall named this structure's "forum." The title of Zola's novel The Belly of Paris refers to this structure.
  - For 10 points, name this fresh food market that was the heart of 19th-century Paris. [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Bell Jar
  - A character in this novel claims that the sight of a man nude reminds her of "turkey neck and turkey gizzards." That character predicts she will be "flying back and forth between one mutually exclusive thing and another for the rest of my days" and was compared to "Salinger's Franny... in Hell" in one review. [PWR]
  - In this novel, the protagonist hears "the old brag of my heart" as "I am, I am, I am" before stepping into a room for (*) evaluation at this novel's end.
  - That character describes the possibilities of her life as figs in a fig tree among which she sees herself starving to death, and she loses her virginity to the professor Irwin after her boyfriend Buddy gets tuberculosis.
  - This novel's protagonist, a fashion magazine writer, undergoes shock therapy during "the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs." For 10 points, name this novel about Esther Greenwood's struggle with mental illness, by Sylvia Plath. [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: The Bell Jar
  - In this novel, a man wipes blood from his nose on the protagonist's cheeks as he demands she return his diamond stickpin to him.
  - This novel's protagonist and all but one of her peers are poisoned by crabmeat-stuffed avocado pears at a catered event.
  - The protagonist of this novel hemorrhages after losing her virginity to a young mathematics professor named Irwin and is taken to the emergency room by Joan, who later hangs herself.
  - Under the supervision of Doctor Nolan, this novel's suicidal narrator receives successful electroshock treatments.
  - For 10 points, name this autobiographical novel about Esther Greenwood written by Sylvia Plath. [GIVE]

[T12] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Bell Jar
  - The protagonist of this novel comes up with an elaborate comeback to her boyfriend's assertion that a poem is a "piece of dust", and later tells him she has a date with Peter the Hermit and Walter the Penniless. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of this novel petitions her (+) college dean to audit Mr. [PWR]
  - Manzi's chemistry class.
  - The protagonist turns down a job as a waitress at a sanatorium in order to go to New York City, and later breaks her leg skiing while at the sanatorium visiting (*) Buddy Willard. [PWR]
  - She is sponsored at a hospital by the wealthy novelist, who had given her a scholarship before she interned at Ladies's Day Magazine, named Philomena Guinea.
  - While in the hospital, she receives shock therapy under Doctor Nolan.
  - For ten points, name this novel about the suicidal Esther Greenwood written by Sylvia Plath. [GIVE]

[T13] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: stratagem [or accept The Belle's Stratagem or The Beaux' Stratagem; prompt on belle or beaux]
  - In a play titled for one of these things, a gossip columnist named Crowquill tries to get scandalous material on a friend of Saville.
  - In that play titled for one of these things, Sir George releases the goldfinch of Lady Frances, and Letitia Hardy feigns ignorance so that she can woo her future husband Doricourt at a masquerade.
  - In addition to that play by Hannah Cowley titled for one of these belonging to a "belle", another of these things titles a play in which the servant Scrub announces that the chaplain Gloss is trying to steal the jewels of Mrs.
  - Sullen.
  - That play set in the city of Lichfield named for one of these things opens at the Boniface Inn, where the two title characters agree to split the share they get from marrying rich wives, such as Lady Bountiful and Boniface.
  - Archer and Aimwell are the title "beaux" that concoct, for 10 points, what kind of scheme that titles a comedy by George Farquhar? [GIVE]

[T14] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: The Bell Jar
  - Twice during this novel, the narrator repeats the phrase "I am" three times in a row.
  - The protagonist of this novel considers the significance of the fact that a word in Finnegans Wake is exactly 100 letters long, and reads about the suicide attempt of George Pollucci.
  - The protagonist drinks the water from a finger bowl at the house of a famous novelist, and she tricks Mr.
  - Manzi into letting her not take chemistry.
  - A math professor named Irwin deflowers the protagonist of this novel, causing her to bleed profusely.
  - Other characters in this work include the editor Jay Cee, the U.N. interpreter Constantin and the protagonist's ex-boyfriend Buddy Willard.
  - Published under the pseudonym Victoria Lucas, it opens during "the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs." For 10 points, name this novel about Esther Greenwood by Sylvia Plath. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This symphony ends with strings playing a quiet B-flat major chord under a celesta solo that quotes the start of its third movement, "In the Store." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dmitri Shostakovich's Symphony No. 13 [or Babi Yar]):
    Name this symphony whose fourth movement begins with a tuba solo and sets the newly commissioned poem "Fears." This symphony features a bass soloist, who enters on the lyric "I feel that now I am a Jew."
  Part 2 (ans: bells [accept "Carol of the Bells"]):
    These percussion instruments play at the beginning and end of Shostakovich's 13th symphony. Peter Wilhousky added English lyrics to a traditional Ukrainian song to create a "Carol of" these instruments.
  Part 3 (ans: Mstislav Rostropovich [or Mstislav Leopoldovich Rostropovich]):
    This musician smuggled the score of Shostakovich's 13th symphony out of the Soviet Union in his cello case. This musician, who defected to the US in 1974, was the dedicatee of Shostakovich's two cello concertos.

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The A-flat major first movement of this symphony modulates to C-sharp minor for its slow middle section, where the choir hums an ostinato doubled by solo oboe and English horn. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bells [or Kolokola]):
    Name this choral symphony that sets Konstantin Balmont's free translation of an American poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Rachmaninoff [or Sergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninoff]):
    The Bells is a choral symphony by this large-handed Russian composer who imitated bells at the start of his second piano concerto in C minor.
  Part 3 (ans: "Dies irae"):
    The second movement of The Bells is based on this melody, which begins "F, E, F, D, E, C, D, D." The piano harmonizes this melody in block chords in the seventh variation of Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.

[B3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Social Science
     Leadin: One theorist gave advice such as "make an omelet with the broken eggs" and "do not give children sticks of dynamite" as part of ten principles to produce a "robust society" that prevent these events. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: black swans [or black swan theory]):
    Name these events. Unlike Knightian uncertainty, these sudden events theorized by Nassim Taleb are unpredictable and are often rationalized through hindsight bias.
  Part 2 (ans: maxmin expected utility [or MMEU; accept answers describing maximizing the minimum expected utility; prompt on maximin]):
    By Knightian uncertainty theory, this strategy based on Wald's criteria can be adopted to deal with black swan events. Gilboa and Schmeidler developed this decision rule as an alternative to SEU theory.
  Part 3 (ans: normal distribution [or Gaussian distribution; accept the bell curve]):
    Nassim Taleb's The Black Swan criticizes financial experts for being overly reliant on this construct, which he calls the "Great Intellectual Fraud." By the empirical rule, 68% of this distribution's values lie within one standard deviation of its mean.

[B4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Glaucias led the Taulantii during Alexander's Balkan campaign against a king of this name, whose father Bardylis invaded Molossia with aid from Dionysius I of Syracuse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cleitus [or Kleitos or Clitus; accept Cleitus the Black or Kleitos o melas; accept Cleitus the White or Kleitos o lefkos]):
    Give this name of an Illyrian king who burned Pellium. Antipater won the Lamian War with aid from an admiral of this name called "the White," in contrast to a "Black" hipparch killed by Alexander in Samarkand.
  Part 2 (ans: Dardani [or Dardania or Dardanians or Dardanes; accept Kingdom of Dardania or Kraljevina Dardanija or Mbreteria e Dardanise; prompt on Illyrians] (It is unclear if the Dardani formed a kingdom or another type of polity. The other two Batos led the bellum Batonianum, or "War of the Batos.")):
    Cleitus and Bardylis may have led this tribe north of Paeonia, which inspired Ibrahim Rugova's Kosovar flag. Pergamon fought Philip V with a leader of this tribe, who was named "Bato" like Breuci and Daesitiates rebels.
  Part 3 (ans: Crassus [or Marcus Licinius Crassus]):
    Unlike Appian's Illyrica, Dio reports that Moesia ("MEE-shuh") absorbed the Dardani, Triballi, and Bastarnae under the grandson of this wealthy triumvir.

[B5] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A speech in which this character declares, "So slender is / The boundary that divideth life's two paths," introduced to one language a "winged word" that literally means "eternal yesterday." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albrecht von Wallenstein [or Albrecht Wenzel Eusebius von Wallenstein or Albrecht von Waldstein; accept The Death of Wallenstein or Wallenstein's Death or Wallensteins Tod; accept Wallenstein's Camp or Wallensteins Lager] ("Ewig gestrige" literally means "eternal yesterday," and in adjectival form is used as something of a synonym for the English word "die-hard.")):
    Name this character whom the Irishmen Gordon and Butler murder at the end of a play. A trilogy of plays about this character opens with a one-act prologue titled for their "Camp."
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller] (The original aphorism is "die Axt im Haus erspart den Zimmermann.")):
    This author of Wallenstein coined the aphorism "the axe in the house spares the carpenter" in William Tell.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Song of the Bell" [or "Das Lied von der Glocke"]):
    This Schiller poem introduced the Classical phrase "eye of the law" into German. This "thought-poem" opens with the motto "Vivos voco. Mortuos plango. Fulgura frango."

[B6] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This village hosted a shadow government with its own prikazy and its own patriarch, Filaret. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tushino [accept the "rebel of Tushino"; accept the "thief of Tushino"]):
    Name this village that a pretender used as a capital for two years after he won the Battle of Bolkhov. That pretender, who was known as the "rebel of" this village, married Marina Mniszech ("MEE-sheck"), the widow of another pretender.
  Part 2 (ans: Time of Troubles [or Smutnoye vremya]):
    The pretender was one of the three "False Dmitrys" who claimed the Tsardom of Russia during this chaotic period that ended with the accession of Michael Romanov.
  Part 3 (ans: bells [accept church bells; accept Fyodor I the Bellringer; accept the "naughty bell"] (Catherine the Great had the clapper removed from the bell that caused the mob to form during the riot.)):
    The last tsar before the Time of Troubles was Fyodor I, who got his nickname from his obsession with these objects. Catherine the Great had one of these objects mutilated over its alleged role in sparking the 1771 plague riot.

[B7] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Simon Putnam is assigned to edit a trashy novel about this couple in Francine Prose's book The Vixen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Rosenbergs [or Julius and Ethel Rosenberg]):
    Identify this couple, whose tragic story is fictionalized in E.L. Doctorow's novel The Book of Daniel. In another work, one of them tells a dying lawyer, "I came here to forgive, but all I can do is take pleasure in your misery."
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Sean Greer):
    The narrator of this author's novel The Story of a Marriage clips out the bad news about the impending execution of the Rosenbergs from her husband's newspaper. This author won the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for the comic novel Less.
  Part 3 (ans: The Bell Jar):
    This Sylvia Plath novel opens with the line, "It was a queer, sultry summer, the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs."

[B8] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Social Science
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about the theory of the diffusion of innovations:
  Part 1 (ans: Everett Rogers):
    This scholar at Ohio State University introduced the theory of the diffusion of innovations in a namesake 1962 book and coined the term "early adopter" for the first people to purchase a new product.
  Part 2 (ans: five):
    In the theory of the diffusion of innovations, there are this many categories of adopters, and there are this many attributes of an innovation that influence the rate of adoption. Michael Porter developed a widely used framework in which this many forces influence the competitive environment of a business or an industry.
  Part 3 (ans: normal distribution [accept Gaussian distribution; accept The Bell Curve]):
    The number of adopters over time can be modeled as this type of distribution. A slang term for this type of distribution titles a controversial book by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray subtitled "Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life."

[B9] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: "Touchwood," a British idiom analogous to the phrase "knock on wood," was a surprisingly common character name in 17th and 18th-century comedies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: English Restoration ):
    The devious Maskwell schemes to steal Touchwood's property and win over Cynthia in William Congreve's The Double Dealer, a comedy from this period following the Interregnum.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Middleton (The first play is A Chaste Maid in Cheapside.)):
    In a city comedy by this author about Moll Yellowhammer, Touchwood Senior is so virile that he must leave his wife for fear of having another child. Thomas Dekker co-wrote the comedy The Honest Whore with this Jacobean playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: The Belle's Stratagem (Farquhar's play is The Beaux' Stratagem.)):
    Lady Frances dupes her jealous husband George Touchwood at a masquerade ball in a subplot in this play. Harriet Smithson made her name starring as Letitia Hardy in this comedy by Hannah Cowley, whose title alludes to an earlier play by George Farquhar.

[B10] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this story, the "metallic choir of birds" sing for exactly one year until an earthquake destroys the title structure. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Bell-Tower"):
    Name this story, which ends by stating "[a]nd so pride went before the fall." In this story, the sculptor Bannadonna is entranced by the automaton Una, leading to his death from his own creation.
  Part 2 (ans: The Piazza Tales (that story is "Benito Cereno")):
    "The Bell-Tower" was included in this collection of short stories, whose title story sees the protagonist climb a mountain in search of fairies. In another story in this collection, Amasa Delano discovers that the title character has been overthrown in a slave revolt led by Babo.
  Part 3 (ans: Herman Melville):
    The Piazza Tales were written by this American author of a novel about Ahab's hunt for a giant white whale, Moby-Dick.

[B11] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This magazine published Truman Capote's ("kuh-PO-tee's") breakthrough short story "Miriam" and Joyce Carol Oates's first published short story "In the Old World." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mademoiselle):
    Name this magazine which hired all-female guest editors every summer from 1939 to 1970; those guest editors included Joan Didion and Diane Johnson.
  Part 2 (ans: The Bell Jar):
    Sylvia Plath fictionalized her time as a guest editor for Mademoiselle in this novel, in which Esther Greenwood has a mental breakdown.
  Part 3 (ans: Wallace (Earle) Stegner):
    Mademoiselle also published this American author's short story "City of the Living." This author is better known for a novel in which the wheelchair-using historian Lyman Ward narrates the history of his grandparents' life in the American West.

[B12] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This "Russian Palestrina" composed so many short a capella choral concertos, like Cherubic Hymn No. 7 and 14 Slavonic Te Deums, that Tchaikovsky, who edited them, lamented "why did he write so much?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dmitry Bortniansky):
    Name this Ukraine-born court composer in St. Petersburg, the leading Russian before Glinka's secular school. His church music fused Orthodox znamenny chant with Italian opera imported from his training with Galuppi in Venice.
  Part 2 (ans: Christmas carols [accept "Carol of the Bells"; prompt on hymns or Christmas songs; prompt on Cantique de Noel]):
    The Ukrainian kolyadka "Shchedryk" by Mikola Leontovych was adapted in English as one of these songs "of the Bells." Leontyne Price and Mariah Carey recorded these traditional songs, like Franz Xaver Gruber's "Stille Nacht" ("SHTILL-uh nokt") and Adolphe Adam's ("ah-DOM's") "O Holy Night."
  Part 3 (ans: "Joy to the World"):
    Instagram's music mafia memed a cake asserting that this carol is just a descending major scale with dotted rhythms. Psalm 98 inspired this carol by the father of English hymnody, Isaac Watts, set to a tune by Lowell Mason that he attributed to Handel.

[B13] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Two butterflies "waltzed above a farm" and encounter an "Ether sea" in a poem whose first line notably uses this word. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: noon):
    Name this word, supposedly the favorite word of Emily Dickinson because of its symmetry and the hollowness in its middle. This word names an annual collection of avant garde feminist writings edited by Diane Williams in homage to Dickinson's frequent use of it.
  Part 2 (ans: bells [accept "The Bells"] (The Dickinson poem is number 498.)):
    The speaker wishes to "be Noon to Him" in a Dickinson poem in which the sound of some of these objects "tell him that it is Noon abroad." Edgar Allen Poe coined the term "tintinnabulation" in a poem titled for these things.
  Part 3 (ans: bees [accept "Telling the Bees"]):
    In Dickinson's poem "The Soul has Bandaged moments," a "prowling" one of these animals "[Touches] Liberty - then knows no more - / But Noon, and Paradise." A John Greenleaf Whittier poem titled for these creatures references a folk custom in which they must be informed of major human life events to have good luck.

[B14] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Aram Khatchaturian's Symphony No. 2 begins and ends with a motif of, and is nicknamed for, these percussion instruments. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bells [accept The Bells or Bells of Zlonice or The Bell]):
    Name these percussion instruments that also nickname Dvorak's Symphony No. 1, which was not performed until thirty years after his death.
  Part 2 (ans: Fur Alina):
    This B minor work by Arvo Part was the first to be written in his tintinnabular style. This work lacks a time signature and is marked ruhig, or "peacefully."
  Part 3 (ans: Sergei Rachmaninoff):
    This Russian composer was inspired to write his cantata named The Bells after receiving an anonymous translation of the Edgar Allan Poe poem of the same name. This composer also wrote several celebrated piano concerti, the first of which he premiered himself.

[B15] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Leadin: This figure first appeared as a dog with a rabbit's head in a cornfield and later returned as Kate Batts to break off Betsy's engagement to Joshua Gardner. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Bell Witch):
    Name this ghost who haunted its namesake family in Adams, Tennessee by quoting sermons and poisoning the patriarch John. This ghost was was the subject of an 1894 "Authenticated History" by M. V. Ingram.
  Part 2 (ans: Andrew Jackson [accept Old Hickory]):
    Ingram's book alleges that this historical figure visited the Bell home in 1819 with a man claiming to be able to kill the witch with a silver bullet. This man's ghost allegedly haunts the Rose Room of the White House.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary Todd Lincoln [accept either underlined part]):
    This First Lady claimed to hear Andrew Jackson swearing in the Rose Room. She hosted seances in the White House after the death of her son Willy and is shown with the ghost of her husband Abe in a hoax photo by William Mumler.

[B16] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem exhorts "Suffer on, courageous millions! Suffer for a better world!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Ode to Joy"):
    Name this German Romantic poem, which addresses "thou beauteous godly lightning, Daughter of Elysium" that "coaxes flowers from the buds" and "drives the wheel."
  Part 2 (ans: Friedrich von Schiller):
    "Ode to Joy" was written by this author of plays such as The Robbers, The Bride of Messina and Wallenstein.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Song of the Bell" [or "The Lay of the Bell"; or "Das Lied von der Glocke"]):
    This Schiller poem details the creation of the title object, which is cast in wax, filled in the ground, released from its mold, and named Concordia. It describes the destruction of a fire and a peaceful evening.

[B17] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is "praised to the skies / ﻿Such a carriage, such ease and such grace! /Such solemnity, too! One could see he was wise, ﻿The moment one looked in his face!" For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: the Bellman):
    Name this character, whose admission that "Some are Boojums" is interrupted by the Baker fainting.
  Part 2 (ans: "The Hunting of the Snark"):
    The Bellman leads a crew including a banker, a billiard-marker, and a beaver in pursuit of a "peculiar creature, that won't / Be caught in a commonplace way" in this Lewis Carroll poem.
  Part 3 (ans: "Jabberwocky"):
    "The Hunting of the Snark" shares many nonsense words with this earlier Carroll work, which begins "'Twas brillig, and the slithy toves / Did gyre and gimble in the wabe."

[B18] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Esther Greenwood is given an internship at Ladies' Day magazine, but finds herself an outsider to the culture she encounters there. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: The Bell Jar):
    Name this only novel by Sylvia Plath.
  Part 2 (ans: Esther's aliases [or reasonable equivalents for aliases such as identities; fictional names; spirits; creations; personalities; etc.]):
    In The Bell Jar, examples of this type of character include Elly Higginbottom, who is a woman from Chicago who is introduced to a sailor, and Elaine, who is compared to a doll trapped in a doll's house.

[B19] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This example of flash fiction is frequently attributed to Ernest Hemingway. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: For sale: baby shoes, never worn):
    What are these six words that comprise a tragic micro-story, which may have been inspired by a newspaper entry about the belongings of a dead child?
  Part 2 (ans: For Whom the Bell Tolls):
    In this Ernest Hemingway novel, titled for a line by John Donne, the guerilla Anselmo dies while helping Robert Jordan blow up a bridge during the Spanish Civil War.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Killers"):
    In this short story by Hemingway, Nick Adams warns the boxer Ole Anderson that the title gangsters are after him, but is shocked by Ole's fatalistic reaction.

[B20] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: MODERATOR NOTE: Only read the underlined portion in the first part if missed. After completing this task, which was ordered by the Russian general Golz, the protagonist imagines settling in for a hot bath at the Florida hotel, then begins reminiscing about his "education" at Gaylord's. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the bridge operation in For Whom the Bell Tolls [or blowing up the bridge; or destroying the bridge; accept equivalents conveying the demolition of a bridge]):
    Name this pivotal event of a 1940 novel, nearly sabotaged the night before by Pablo, which in actuality results in a huge chunk of steel shrapnel instantly killing Anselmo and the protagonist shattering his leg in the ensuing retreat, forcing him to be separated from his lover Maria.
  Part 2 (ans: For Whom the Bell Tolls):
    Robert Jordan joins with a guerilla band led by Pilar to destroy a Fascist-controlled bridge during the Spanish Civil War in this novel by Ernest Hemingway.
  Part 3 (ans: Esquire):
    Hemingway's other Spanish Civil War fiction includes the story "Night Before Battle," which was his final submission to this magazine, for which he wrote the article "Monologue to the Maestro" advising young writers to "stop when you are going good." Gay Talese's pieces for this magazine, such as "The Silent Season of a Hero" and "Frank Sinatra Has a Cold," were pioneering works of New Journalism and creative nonfiction.

[B21] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Social Science
     Leadin: The Flynn effect says that the average value of this measurement has been increasing by roughly three points per decade. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: IQ or intelligence quotient [prompt on "intelligence"]):
    Name this measurement, which is today most commonly measured on a scale designed by David Wechsler.
  Part 2 (ans: Stanford University [accept Stanford-Binet intelligence scales or Stanford Prison Experiment]):
    One frequently used IQ test in the past was a redesign of Alfred Binet's test published by Lewis Terman at this American university. This university was also the site of Philip Zimbardo's prison experiment.
  Part 3 (ans: The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life):
    This controversial 1994 book by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray asserted that IQ was an important predictor of economic and social class status and posited the development of a "cognitive elite."

[B22] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This onomatopeic poem tells of how the title objects "tinkle, tinkle, tinkle / In the icy air of night!". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Bells"):
    Name this poem in which the author coins the term "tintinnabulation" to describe the rhythm of the title objects.
  Part 2 (ans: Annabel Lee):
    The speaker of this other poem by Edgar Allan Poe remembers his lover as a child when they both lived "in a kingdom by the sea and he blames angels for 'chilling and killing' this woman out of envy.
  Part 3 (ans: Greece and Rome (Must be in order!)):
    Two answers required in the correct order. In another poem, Edgar Allan Poe compares the beauty of Helen to "those Nicean barks of yore" and "the glory that was [this place], and the grandeur that was [this other place]."

[B23] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these books by Ernest Hemingway.
  Part 1 (ans: The Dangerous Summer ):
    This nonfiction book about bullfighting chronicles the rivalry during 1959 of the bullfighters Luis Miguel Dominguin and Antoni Ordonez. This was the last thing Hemingway wrote.
  Part 2 (ans: For Whom the Bell Tolls ):
    This novel is set during the Spanish Civil War. It chronicles American Robert Jordan's attempts to destroy a bridge despite the betrayal of guerillas such as Pablo.
  Part 3 (ans: A Moveable Feast):
    This book, ostensibly non-fiction, is a memoir of Hemingway's time in Paris in the 1920s. It includes scathing portraits of contemporaries and luminaries such as F. Scott Fitzgerald, as well as a multi-chapter to detour to Austria where Hemingway and his wife go skiing at Schruns.

[B24] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Social Science
     Leadin: This work claims that talking about white and black people is a horrible generality, and some of its late sections see the levelling of accusations of anti-semitism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Rap on Race):
    Name this book, a tape recording of a conversation held between two eminent academics about topics such as religions, civil liberties, and prominent figures of their age.
  Part 2 (ans: Margaret Mead):
    One of the authors of A Rap on Race was this anthropologist who came under fire for the questionable research methods she employed while gathering the source material for her Coming of Age in Samoa.
  Part 3 (ans: The Bell Curve):
    Another book on race is this one by Herrnstein and Murray, which basically argues that the intelligence quotient of humans is linked to that of race. Gould's The Mismeasure of Man responded to its claims.

[B25] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's protagonist refers to her boyfriend Buddy Willard as a hypocrite, and Buddy spends much of this novel in a tuberculosis sanitorium. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Bell Jar):
    Name this novel whose protagonist masquerades as Elly Higginbottom while on a literary internship in New York and later undergoes shock therapy at the behest of Doctor Nolan.
  Part 2 (ans: Sylvia Plath):
    This author created Esther Greenwood in The Bell Jar. She also wrote poems like "Lady Lazarus" and "Daddy."
  Part 3 (ans: giving birth):
    Esther first discovers Buddy to be a hypocrite after they watch Mrs. Tomolillo doing this action. After losing her virginity, Esther associates her torrents of blood with fictional Victorian characters doing this action.
