=== STOCK CLUES: August Wilson ===
Tossup questions: 19 found, 101 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 42 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PACE NSC (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Pittsburgh Cycle [accept American Century Cycle before "century"; accept the August Wilson Century Cycle before "Wilson"]
  - The author of this series started writing it around the time he wrote An Evening with Margaret Mead, inspired by the possibility of art as explored in his autobiographical work How I Learned What I Learned. [PWR]
  - This series's characters include a harmonica player called both Canewell and Stool Pigeon and a healer who dies at age 366 called Aunt Ester.
  - Gem of the Ocean and (*) Radio Golf bookend this series, whose ten entries are each set in a different decade of the 20th century.
  - In an entry in this series, a potential football scholarship sparks a disagreement between Cory and Troy Maxson.
  - For 10 points, Fences is in what series of plays by August Wilson, largely set in a Pennsylvania city? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Wilson [accept August Wilson or Frederick August Kittel Jr.; accept Lanford Wilson]
  - A play by an author with this surname ends with a bidding war for the house of the double amputee veteran Ken Talley.
  - This is the surname of the author of the play Fifth of July.
  - The first scene of a play by an author with this surname ends after the children Reuben and Zonia leave to look at some pigeons in a nearby coop.
  - A play by an author with this surname follows Herald Loomis, a man trying to find his wife.
  - In a play by an author with this surname, a man often changes details to the story of him wrestling with Death for "three days and three nights" according to his wife Rose.
  - A play by an author with this surname ends with Gabriel opening the "gates of Heaven" with his trumpet during Troy Maxson's funeral.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author of Joe Turner's Come and Gone and Fences. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - In a play by this author, an ex-convict steals flowers and a gasoline can from a dead prophet's visitation room.
  - In that play by this author, a restaurant owner is skeptical about throwing money into a river before the local government pays him more than expected to buy his property.
  - In a play by this author, Harmond Wilks campaigns to be mayor and discovers that the house at 1839 Wylie was illegally acquired.
  - The clairvoyant 349-year-old Aunt Ester is a recurring character created by this author.
  - Maretha learns to play an instrument haunted by a plantation owner's ghost in a play by this author.
  - In another play by this author, Cory gives up a job at the A&P in order to play football despite opposition from his father, the garbage collector Troy Maxson.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Two Trains Running, The Piano Lesson, and Fences. [GIVE]

[T4] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - In a play by this author, the craftsman Seth Holly runs a boarding house in the early 20th century with his wife Bertha. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, various characters visit Aunt Ester, a woman one claims is 322 years old. [PWR]
  - That play, (*) Two Trains Running, ends with Sterling stealing a leg of ham.
  - One of this author's most famous focuses on a legendary blues artist and her famous black bottom dance.
  - That play was adapted into a 2020 film starring Viola Davis and Chadwick Boseman.
  - In another of this author's most famous plays, the theme of generational conflict through the plight of the Maxson family.
  - For 10 points, name this African American playwright behind works like Ma Rainey's black Bottom and, among other works in his "Pittsburgh cycle," Fences. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 PACE NSC (2022) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]
  - This author, who once wrote skits for the Science Museum of Minnesota, had his breakthrough when Lloyd Richards directed the first of his plays to premiere at the Yale Repertory Theatre. [PWR]
  - A "womanless man" created by this author delivers a monologue where he declares that if he "goes down," he intends to "go down swinging." That same character created by this author forces his wife to raise (*) Raynell after Raynell's mother Alberta dies in childbirth. [PWR]
  - In that same play by this author, Cory is forbidden from taking a football scholarship due to a sanitation worker's past experience of discrimination in the Negro Leagues.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright who included plays such as The Piano Lesson and Fences in his Pittsburgh Cycle. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 Spring Novice (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - A character created by this author warns his son that he has committed "strike two" and is "living with a full count" before eventually chasing him out of the house with a baseball bat. [PWR]
  - Many of this author's plays take place in the Hill District.
  - At the end of one of this author's plays, the pianist Toledo is (*) stabbed by his bandmate, the cornetist Levee.
  - In another of this author's plays, Cory is prevented from accepting a football scholarship by his father, the garbage truck driver Troy Maxson.
  - For 10 points, name this African-American playwright whose Pittsburgh Cycle of plays includes Ma Rainey's Black Bottom and Fences. [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Wilson [accept Lanford Wilson; or August Wilson]
  - A playwright with this surname wrote the early gay-theater play The Madness of Lady Bright and won a Pulitzer for a play set in a boathouse in which Matt Friedman falls for the title woman.
  - This is the surname of the author of Talley's Folly, with first name Lanford.
  - A playwright with this surname wrote about a man trying to buy a "magic suit" from Wining Boy in a play in which four characters who died in a boxcar fire become the Ghosts of the Yellow Dog.
  - An author with this surname chronologically followed their play Seven Guitars with a play where an object with a family's history carved into it, which Boy Willie is trying to sell, is used to exorcise Sutter's ghost.
  - For 10 points, give this surname by a playwright who included their play The Piano Lesson in the Pittsburgh Cycle. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 ACF Fall (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]
  - After burning down a steel mill, an elderly character created by this author named Solly Two Kings is shot by the policeman Caesar Wilks.
  - In addition to writing that play set in the house of Aunt Ester, this author also wrote a play in which a man named Wining Boy sells Lymon and the protagonist a suit that supposedly attracts women.
  - This author of Gem of the Ocean ended one of his plays with Gabriel blowing his trumpet and opening the Gates of Heaven.
  - That play by this author chronicles the falling out between the football player Cory and his father Troy Maxson.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included The Piano Lesson and Fences in his Pittsburgh Cycle. [GIVE]

[T9] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - A singer created by this author achieves posthumous success with his recording of "That's All Right." A character created by this author claims that she "planted a seed and watched and prayed over it," but "the soil was hard and rocky, and it wasn't ever gonna bloom." Two friends created by this author repeatedly sing "Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here" from The Pirates of Penzance. [PWR]
  - This author created the mayoral candidate Harmond Wilkes, the (*) blues singer Floyd "Schoolboy" Barton, and a title character who sells stolen refrigerators to support the pregnant Tonya. [PWR]
  - In another of his works, Raynell is the result of her husband's infidelity with Alberta.
  - His character Herald Loomis searches for his wife Martha Pentecost in Joe Turner's Come and Gone.
  - A character created by this author could not break into the MLB because of the color barrier, and works as a garbage collector.
  - For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of Fences, which is included in his Pittsburgh Cycle. [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 Prison Bowl (2019) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson [accept Frederick August Kittel, Jr.; first work is Radio Golf]
  - In a work by this author, Harmond says that he is going to "be the mayor of everybody," and after having an interview canceled, his wife Mame Wilks says "You jumped but I'm falling too." Ester Tyler, first introduced in this man's Gem of the Ocean, is a "washer of souls" who later dies at the supposed age of (*) 366 in this man's King Hedley II. [PWR]
  - In a play by this man, an intellectually disabled man plays the trumpet signaling Armageddon and a father attempts to convince his son to play baseball instead of football.
  - For 10 points, the play Fences is a part of what playwright's Pittsburgh Cycle? [GIVE]

[T11] 2019 Canadian Hybrid (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]
  - In a work by this author, the song "Hail!
  - Hail! [PWR]
  - The gang's all here" is sung at various points.
  - In a play by this author, Booster is jailed for killing a woman, and his dad Becker struggles to keep his business alive. [PWR]
  - Harmond Wilks runs for mayor in a play by this author, who also killed off a recurring character at the age of 366 in the play King Hedley II. [PWR]
  - This author created the character of Aunt Ester, who lives at 1839 Wylie Avenue in the play (*) Gem of the Ocean. [PWR]
  - The title object of one of this author's plays was stolen from the Sutters by their slaves, and frames an argument between Boy Willie and Berniece over its sale.
  - This author also wrote a play in which Rose's husband is unfaithful.
  - For 10 points, identify this author of The Piano Lesson who created the garbage collector Troy Maxson in Fences. [GIVE]

[T12] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - A play by this author begins with a character described as the "Muhammad Ali" of checkers and the "checker champ of 'Nam," playing against Turnbo. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, characters sing a song about the possum-treeing dog Blue and the protagonist refers to death as "nothing but a fastball on the outside corner." Youngblood saves up to buy Rena a house after Booster takes over Jim Becker's unofficial (*) taxi cab business in Jitney, a play by this author. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, men burned alive in a train car become the Ghosts of Yellow Dog, and Berniece and Willie Boy try to exorcise Sutter's ghost.
  - The mentally disabled Gabriel blows his horn to end another of this man's plays, in which Cory and Rose bury the patriarch Troy Maxson.
  - For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of the Pittsburgh Cycle, including The Piano Lesson and Fences. [GIVE]

[T13] 2018 ACF Fall (2018) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - In one of this author's plays, two men sing about a dog named Blue who "treed a possum in Noah's Ark." The protagonist of that play by this author recounts how his co-worker, Brownie, was fired for smuggling a watermelon under his coat.
  - This author's most famous play ends with a mentally handicapped man named Gabriel attempting to blow a trumpet.
  - In that play by this author, the protagonist has an affair with Alberta and refuses to let his son Cory play football.
  - This author's play about the garbage truck driver Troy Maxson is the sixth work of his Pittsburgh Cycle.
  - For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of Fences. [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - In a play by this author, a man describes how his father could walk into a barbershop and be treated like a "big man"; in that play by this author, Youngblood tells his girlfriend Rena that, instead of "running around" with her sister, he has been looking for a house with which to surprise her.
  - A play by this man ends with Booster answering a phone with the words "car service" in honor of his late father, Becker, who owned a gypsy cab station.
  - This author of Jitney wrote a play in which Gabriel cannot produce sound from his trumpet but manages to open up the heavens by dancing; in that play by this man, Cory joins the marines after his father, a former baseball player, refuses to let him play college football.
  - For 10 points, what playwright wrote about the garbage man Troy Maxson in his play Fences? [GIVE]

[T15] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - In a play by this author, a man slashes his chest and denounces his religion after learning the "song of self-sufficiency." In another of his plays, a man named Booster returns from a jail term he received for killing a woman who accused him of rape and takes his father's place as the manager of the title unlicensed taxi business.
  - The washed-up musician Wining Boy sells his clothes to Lymon in a play by this author in which the central family is haunted by Sutter's ghost as Boy Willie attempts to sell the title object.
  - In another play, he wrote about Cory, who is forbidden to play football by his father, Troy Maxson.
  - For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of the "Pittsburgh Cycle," which includes The Piano Lesson and Fences. [GIVE]

[T16] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - In one play by this author, Risa purposely scars her legs to deflect attention from men, and Memphis Lee tries to negotiate a fair price for a restaurant that is about to be demolished.
  - In another play by this man, a series of mysterious deaths are blamed on the "Ghosts of the Yellow Dog," and a more visible ghost wrestles with a man until they both hear music and the sound of a train whistle.
  - A third play by this author of Two Trains Running ends with Gabriel sounding a trumpet to open the gates of Heaven for an adulterous ex-baseball player.
  - That character, Troy Maxson, becomes the first black garbage truck driver in this author's common setting of the Hill district.
  - For 10 points, name this playwright whose ten-play Pittsburgh Cycle includes The Piano Lesson and Fences. [GIVE]

[T17] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel, Jr.]
  - A character created by this author kills Pernell for continually calling him "Champ". [PWR]
  - This author wrote a play in which that character's son sells stolen refrigerators to fund a store he hopes to open with his friend Mister. [PWR]
  - In another play, he created a character whose obsession with her dead husband Crawley frustrates her suitor Avery Brown. [PWR]
  - He created a "washer of souls" named Aunt Ester Tyler, who dies at age 366 in (*) King Hedley II.
  - In one of his plays, Sutter's ghost is driven away by Berniece, who opposes Boy Willie's efforts to sell a musical instrument.
  - In his most famous play, Cory is banned from playing football by his father, a former baseball player and current garbage man named Troy Maxson.
  - For 10 points, name this African-American playwright whose "Pittsburgh Cycle" includes The Piano Lesson and Fences. [GIVE]

[T18] 2014 Delta Burke (2014) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - One recurring character created by this author is a folk priestess named Aunt Esther who dies at age 366 in his work King Hedley II after first appearing in his earlier work Two Trains Running.
  - Ester became the main character of this author's work Gem of the Ocean, which is set in the same northeastern city as seven other works by this playwright.
  - The last work of that cycle of plays, Radio Golf, sees African-American entrepreneur Harmond Wilks consider tearing down Ester's historic house.
  - For 10 points what African-American playwright's Pittsburgh Cycle includes Ma Rainey's Black Bottom and Fences? [GIVE]

[T19] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: August Wilson
  - In one play by this author, a woman chastises her husband for using their baby food money to secure the down payment on a house.
  - This author slammed New Republic theater critic Robert Brustein in his manifesto "The Ground on Which I Stand." In another of his plays, a man complains about the incompetence of the stuttering Sylvester and treasures his expensive Florsheim shoes, stabbing Toledo for accidentally stepping on them.
  - In his most famous play, a woman admits to giving "eighteen years of my life to stand in the same spot with you" after her learning of her husband's affair with Alberta; that husband prevents his son Cory from playing football, bitter about having to give up his own boyhood dream to become a garbage-man.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Jitney,Ma Rainey's Black Bottom, and Fences, three plays in his Pittsburgh cycle. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: David Rabe's trilogy of plays about this war includes Sticks and Bones, which Christopher Durang parodied in a play set in suburban New Jersey. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vietnam War [or Second Indochina War or Chien tranh Viet Nam or Khang Chien Chong My] (Durang's play is The Vietnamization of New Jersey.)):
    Name this war that is the subject of plays like Terence McNally's Botticelli and Shirley Lauro's A Piece of My Heart, as well as Tim O'Brien's collection The Things They Carried.
  Part 2 (ans: Sam Shepard [or Samuel Shepard Rogers III]):
    This playwright's La Turista allegorizes the Vietnam War via two tourists who grow ill in Mexico. In a play by this author, an old man wears a baseball cap to stop his amputee son from shaving his head while he sleeps.
  Part 3 (ans: Wilson [accept Lanford Wilson or August Wilson] (The latter play is Fences.)):
    A playwright with this surname depicted the amputee Vietnam veteran Kenneth Talley Jr. in the play Fifth of July. Another playwright with this surname created a brain-damaged veteran who blows a trumpet at his brother's funeral.

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about refrigerators as symbols of working-class struggle in American theatre, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Willy Loman [or William Loman; prompt on Loman]):
    This character exclaims that "once in my life I would like to own something outright before it's broken" while bemoaning his perpetually broken Hastings refrigerator to his wife Linda in Death of a Salesman.
  Part 2 (ans: Curse of the Starving Class (by Sam Shepard)):
    In this play, a girl talks to her family's empty refrigerator, which her brother fills with artichokes. This play's central family includes a girl working on a 4-H project about chicken butchery and a drunk who breaks their door.
  Part 3 (ans: Fences (by August Wilson)):
    Bono finally agrees to buy a fridge for his wife on a bet with this play's protagonist. A woman in this play asks her husband "don't you think I had dreams and hopes?" after he reveals that his mistress Alberta is pregnant.

[B3] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the protagonist has to juggle his relationship with Phlox Lombardi and his increasing attraction to the charming gay man Arthur Lecomte. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mysteries of Pittsburgh (by Michael Chabon)):
    Name this novel in which Art Beckstein spends the summer after graduating college pursuing adventures with people like the biker Cleveland Arning, who becomes entangled with Art's mobster father.
  Part 2 (ans: John Edgar Wideman):
    This author's coming-of-age memoir Brothers and Keepers focuses on his relationship with his troubled younger brother Robert, who was convicted of muder. This author set many works in the predominantly Black Pittsburgh neighborhood of Homewood, where he grew up.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    20th-century Pittsburgh provides the setting for the 10 plays in this writer's Pittsburgh Cycle.

[B4] 2025 COOT (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: One character in this play reads Bill Clinton's autobiography aloud to her companions, since she is one of only two characters who are able to read. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eclipsed):
    Name this play set during the Second Liberian Civil War, which focuses on the lives of four women being kept as slaves in a bullet-ridden shack. This play has been praised for being the first all-female all-black production to be staged on Broadway.
  Part 2 (ans: Danai Gurira):
    Eclipsed was written by this Zimbabwean-American actress and playwright, who also starred as Michonne on AMC's The Walking Dead.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    Gurira's Broadway debut was in a 2009 production of Joe Turner's Come and Gone, a play by this American playwright who also wrote The Piano Lesson.

[B5] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A character with this name says, "Jesus Christ was a big man. He was the Son of the Father. I too. I am the son of my father" in a play where he cuts the protagonist's throat. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: King Hedley [or King Hedley; accept King Hedley II or King Hedley II]):
    Give this name of a character advised by the wise man Stool-Pigeon. An ex-con who is the second of this name titles a play where he sells stolen refrigerators to try to buy a video store.
  Part 2 (ans: musician [accept blues singer]):
    King Hedley originally appeared in a play focusing on a man in this profession, Floyd "Schoolboy" Barton. In an earlier play, Levee and Slow Drag wait for a real-life woman in this profession named Ma Rainey.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel, Jr.]):
    Seven Guitars and Ma Rainey's Black Bottom are part of this American author's Pittsburgh Cycle.

[B6] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play pays the sheet metal-selling "People Finder" Selig to find a "shiny man" who had vanished after rubbing blood all over himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joe Turner's Come and Gone):
    Name this play, in which the conjure man Bynum sings a song about a man who had captured and enslaved Herald Loomis for seven years.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson [Frederick August Kittel Jr.]):
    Joe Turner's Come and Gone is the second entry in this playwright's Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: Ma Rainey [or Ma Rainey's Black Bottom]):
    This Wilson character titles the only Pittsburgh Cycle play not to be set in Pittsburgh. This character refuses to start a recording session without a Coca-Cola.

[B7] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's working title, Mill Hand's Lunch Bucket, was inspired by a painting by Romare Bearden, one of the "four B's" that influenced this play's author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joe Turner's Come and Gone):
    Name this play whose first act ends with a man repeatedly shouting, "My legs won't stand up!" At the end of this play, Herald Loomis finds that he is able to stand after slashing his chest and rubbing blood over his face.
  Part 2 (ans: Pittsburgh Cycle [or Century Cycle] (by August Wilson)):
    Joe Turner's Come and Gone is the entry representing the 1910s in this dramatic cycle, which also includes Ma Rainey's Black Bottom.
  Part 3 (ans: shining like new money [or shiny]):
    In the play's first scene, Bynum describes following a man with this visual quality down a road to a place where he found his Binding Song. In the last line of the play, Bynum says Loomis has this quality.

[B8] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: James Earl Jones described audience members shouting "Drown the damn baby!" in response to a scene of this character with his illegitimate daughter Raynell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Troy Maxson [prompt on Maxson]):
    Name this character who forces his son to work at A&P instead of pursuing a college football scholarship because of his bitter experience playing baseball after prison.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]):
    Jones premiered the role of Troy in this author's play Fences. Denzel Washington has pledged to produce films of this author's Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: trumpet blast [accept word forms such as the sound of a trumpet; or horn blast; accept Gabriel's trumpet or Gabriel's horn; prompt on music; reject "English Horn blast" or "French Horn blast" or the sound of other instruments that aren't a trumpet or horn]):
    At the funeral at the end of Fences, a "weight of impossible description...falls away" in response to this sound, after which the man who produced it pushes Lyons away and begins to howl and dance.

[B9] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: A ban on plays during this war was flouted by a performance of Joseph Addison's play Cato. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: American Revolution [accept American Revolutionary War or American War of Independence or U.S. War of Independence]):
    Name this war whose stage depictions include most of the first act of the musical Hamilton.
  Part 2 (ans: Pennsylvania [or PA] (The latter plays are from August Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle.)):
    During the Revolution, an elaborate theatrical production was performed at the Mischianza ("miss-kee-AN-za") fete ("FET") in this state, which is the setting of a ten-play cycle which includes the historical plays Gem of the Ocean and Joe Turner's Come and Gone.
  Part 3 (ans: Maxwell Anderson):
    This author used Valley Forge as the setting of one of his plays. This author also wrote Both Your Houses and a verse drama drawing on the Sacco and Vanzetti trial titled Winterset.

[B10] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In one play, a character with this name murders Floyd Barton thinking that he's the musician Buddy Bolden delivering money to him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: King Hedley [accept King Hedley II]):
    Give this name also shared by a man who sells stolen refrigerators in a play that ends with him being killed by his mother Ruby.
  Part 2 (ans: Pittsburgh):
    Those aforementioned plays, Seven Guitars and King Hedley II, are set in this city.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]):
    Seven Guitars and King Hedley II are two plays from this author's 10-part Pittsburgh Cycle alongside Fences.

[B11] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Many of this author's plays feature what he called "spectacle characters," figures with mental disabilities who often provide spiritual or biblical wisdom. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]):
    Name this Black playwright who created the stuttering Sylvester in Ma Rainey's Black Bottom and the delusional Hedley in Seven Guitars, two plays from his Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 2 (ans: Gabriel Maxson [prompt on Maxson]):
    This character from Wilson's Fences has a metal plate in his head due to a brain injury sustained during World War II. He returns from an asylum and plays his trumpet to "open the gates" of Heaven at the play's end.
  Part 3 (ans: ham [accept Hambone; prompt on meat or pork] (The character is Hambone.)):
    In Two Trains Running, Sterling teaches Black Power slogans to an impaired man whose name references his ability to only say two phrases about this foodstuff. After his death, Sterling steals this food to place in his coffin.

[B12] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In the play Seven Guitars, this man's adoptive father of the same surname sleeps with the pregnant Ruby and kills a promising blues musician named Floyd Barton. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: King Hedley II [or King Hedley II]):
    Name this character who titles a different play set in the 1980s. This ex-convict, who hustles stolen refrigerators, mourns the death of the extremely old Aunt Ester and interacts with a prophetic man called Stool Pigeon.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]):
    King Hedley II and Seven Guitars are part of this Black playwright's 10-play Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: Ed Bullins [or Edward Artie Bullins; or Kingsley B. Bass Jr]):
    Among his influences, Wilson has cited the blues, Baraka, and this author of the 20-play Twentieth Century Cycle and The Fabulous Miss Marie. This ex-Black Panther depicted the Black rapist Monty in the play The Taking of Miss Janie.

[B13] 2023 ACF Fall (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play sings about a dog who "treed a possum in Noah's Ark." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences):
    Name this play, which follows a garbage truck driver who prevents his son, Cory, from playing football.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    This playwright included Fences in his Pittsburgh Cycle along with The Piano Lesson.
  Part 3 (ans: trumpets [accept Gabriel's horn; prompt on instruments]):
    Fences ends with World War II veteran Gabriel Maxson attempting to open the gates of heaven by using a broken one of these objects three times.

[B14] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After failing to use this object, a character in a play who "[chases] hellhounds" is left "bare and exposed to a frightful realization." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Maxson's trumpet [accept the trumpet from Fences]):
    Name this object. At Troy Maxson's funeral, a mentally handicapped character who believes he's an archangel attempts to use this object to open the gates of heaven.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    Gabriel tries to open the gates of Heaven with his trumpet in this author's play Fences, which is part of this author's Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: a Coca-Cola [or Coke; prompt on soft drink or pop or soda]):
    In Wilson's play Ma Rainey's Black Bottom, the trumpeter Levee makes out with Dussie Mae during a recording session delay caused by Irvin forgetting to bring this item. The session starts when Slow Drag and Sylvester return with this item.

[B15] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This ballad was preserved orally until its 1855 publication in Josiah Gilbert Holland's History of Western Massachusetts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Bars Fight"):
    Name this poem by Lucy Terry, which recounts a 1746 Native American raid on two white families. It is the oldest known literary work by an African-American author.
  Part 2 (ans: Wilson [or Harriet Wilson or August Wilson]):
    Harriet Jacobs and another Harriet with this surname both wrote autobiographical works about the treatment of African-American women. A later author with this surname included the ex-slave Aunt Ester in Gem of the Ocean and offstage in King Hedley II.
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Jefferson):
    This politician's fictional half-black daughter Clotel titles a novel by William Wells Brown. Clotel was likely based on the real-life relationship between the enslaved Sally Hemings and this author of Notes on the State of Virginia.

[B16] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: A play by this author begins at the McGregor Plantation, where Kaneisha eats cantaloupe off the floor as part of a sexual encounter with the overseer Jim. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jeremy O. Harris):
    Couples undergoing Antebellum Sexual Performance Therapy are the main characters of what author's Slave Play, which won none of the twelve Tony Awards for which it was nominated in 2020?
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson [accept August Wilson Theatre]):
    Slave Play was presented at several New York City theaters, including one named for this dramatist whose play Ma Rainey's Black Bottom was adapted into a 2020 film starring Chadwick Boseman as the trumpeter Levee.
  Part 3 (ans: choreopoems [reject partial answers such as "poem"]):
    Jeremy O. Harris's other works include one of these performance pieces named Black Exhibition, which interweaves the stories of authors such as Yukio Mishima and Kathy Acker. Ntozake Shange's ("en-toh-ZAH-kee SHONG-gay's") For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide / When the Rainbow Is Enuf was the first of these performance pieces.

[B17] 2022 Boilermaker Spring Novice (2022) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's Pittsburgh Cycle consists of 10 plays that each cover a separate decade of the Black American experience since 1900. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: August Wilson):
    Name this playwright. Troy Maxson becomes the first black garbage truck driver in town in this author's play Fences.
  Part 2 (ans: Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (The Pittsburgh Cycle is actually a less formal name for the Century Cycle, explaining the loose adherence to the setting)):
    This play is the only play in the Pittsburgh Cycle not set in Pittsburgh. After recording this play's title song with this play's title singer, the trumpeter Levee stabs Toledo for stepping on his shoes.
  Part 3 (ans: Chicago, Illinois (The musical is Chicago)):
    Ma Rainey's Black Bottom is instead set in this city. In a musical set in this city, Roxy Hart gets away with murder after her trial and crime is sensationalized by the press.

[B18] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A character says that "the times ain't ripe" for one of these events because of "the man in the White House." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: a labor strike [accept any answer about a strike in a specific industry; prompt on work stoppage; prompt on labor shortage; prompt on withholding labor or similar answers] (All the clues are from the play Waiting for Lefty by Clifford Odets.)):
    Identify these events whose repercussions are discussed by a man from Philadelphia named Tom Clayton. At the end of a play, Agate asks, "Well, what's the answer?" to which everyone on stage replies by repeating a word for one of these events.
  Part 2 (ans: Lynn Nottage):
    An employer-initiated lockout at a textile mill in Reading ("RED-ing"), Pennsylvania, is central to this author's 2015 play Sweat. This author's play about women in the DRC, Ruined, won the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for Drama.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    Workers fear that their illegal taxi station will be demolished by the city in this author's play Jitney. Troy Maxson becomes the first Black garbage truck driver in Pittsburgh in this author's play Fences.

[B19] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's plays ends with Gabriel doing "a dance of atavistic signature and ritual" after trying to open the Gates of Heaven for his brother using a broken trumpet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: August Wilson):
    Name this author whose plays The Piano Lesson and Fences are part of his Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 2 (ans: Ma Rainey [or Gertrude Malissa Nix Pridgett; accept Ma Rainey's Black Bottom]):
    In a Pittsburgh Cycle play partially named for this woman and set in the 1920s, the trumpeter Levee stabs Toledo while their band attempts to record a new track for this Black jazz singer.
  Part 3 (ans: cab drivers [or taxi drivers; prompt on drivers or synonyms; accept equivalents like cabbies or taximen; do NOT accept or prompt on "bus drivers"] (The unnamed play is Waiting for Lefty by Clifford Odets.)):
    The Pittsburgh Cycle play Jitney is titled for unlicensed workers of this profession, such as Youngblood and Turnbo. A different play ends with a man named Agate leading workers of this profession in chanting "STRIKE!"

[B20] 2021 PACE NSC (2021) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: This director worked with the Federal Theatre Project's Negro Theatre Unit to stage an all-black adaptation of Macbeth set in Haiti that was dubbed "voodoo." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Orson Welles [or George Orson Welles]):
    Name this director whose Mercury Theatre went "on the air" for its many acclaimed radio dramas.
  Part 2 (ans: Wilson [accept Frank Wilson or August Wilson] (That is the Pittsburgh Cycle.)):
    The first production for the Negro Theatre Unit was Walk Together, Children by a playwright with this surname. A later playwright with this surname wrote a "cycle" of ten plays, one for each decade of the 20th century.
  Part 3 (ans: Harlem [accept Harlem Renaissance]):
    The Negro Theater Unit premiered those plays at the Lafayette Theater in this New York neighborhood, where writer Langston Hughes was part of a 1920s literary "Renaissance."

[B21] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This play's only white character is a diamond dealer named Mr Harari. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruined):
    Name this play, which explores how warfare harms women in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This play is set in a bar and brothel owned by Mama Nadi.
  Part 2 (ans: Lynn Nottage):
    This author of Ruined depicted working-class Americans in Reading, Pennsylvania in the play Sweat.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    This playwright also depicted racial tension and working-class Americans in plays set in Pennsylvania, such as Fences from this author's Pittsburgh Cycle.

[B22] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of this play, a World War II veteran who believes he's a saint tries to play a broken trumpet to open heaven's gates. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences):
    Name this play. In this play, Alberta dies giving birth to Raynell after having an affair with a black garbage truck driver, who later kicks his Cory son out of the house.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    Fences is the sixth of 10 plays in the Pittsburgh Cycle, which was written by this playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: Sweat (by Lynn Nottage)):
    In this other play set in Pennsylvania, Jason disables Stan while attacking Oscar with a baseball bat. In this play, the Olsted Steel Mill keeps laying off employees and outsourcing production to non-union workers.

[B23] 2020 STASH (2020) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: A policeman accuses this character of hitting a cab driver as she enters the recording studio and she refuses to sing without a bottle of Coke. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ma Rainey [accept Ma Rainey's Black Bottom]):
    Name this character who fires the hot-tempered Levee from her band after he refuses to stop improvising.
  Part 2 (ans: Pittsburgh Cycle [prompt on "Pittsburgh"]):
    Ma Rainey's Black Bottom is part of this ten-play series, whose other plays are all set in the title city. Other plays in this series include The Piano Lesson and King Hedley II.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    This author of the Pittsburgh Cycle also wrote about Troy Maxson refusing to let his son Cory play football in his play Fences.

[B24] 2019 PACE NSC (2019) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about plays that tackle working class economic anxiety in and around Pennsylvania, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lynn Nottage):
    This author's Pulitzer Prize-winning play Sweat depicts the tensions that arise during and after a factory strike in Reading, Pennsylvania. She also won the Pulitzer for her 2009 play Ruined.
  Part 2 (ans: Waiting for Lefty):
    In this play by Clifford Odets, Harry Fatt cites a failed strike in Philadelphia to dissuade his union of taxi drivers from striking. At its end, calls for a strike erupt when the workers learn of the title character's death.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr]):
    This playwright addressed economic anxiety in plays such as Jitney and Fences, both of which were included in his Pittsburgh Cycle.

[B25] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Wining Boy recounts "It felt like the longer I stood there the bigger I got" after calling out to these figures at a railway crossing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Ghosts of the Yellow Dog [prompt on ghosts]):
    Name these figures, supposedly the spirits of Boy Charles and four hobos who were burnt alive by a lynch mob. They are blamed for a series of suspicious deaths, including that of the former slave-owner Sutter, who fell down a well before the beginning of the play in which they appear.
  Part 2 (ans: The Piano Lesson):
    The Ghosts of the Yellow Dog are repeatedly invoked in this play, which takes place during the 1930s. Boy Willie unsuccessfully tries to convince Berniece to sell the title object of this play so that he can buy Sutter's old land.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    This playwright included The Piano Lesson and Fences in his ten-play Pittsburgh Cycle.
