=== STOCK CLUES: Fences ===
Tossup questions: 18 found, 96 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fences
  - One character in this play loses "a weight of impossible description", leading to "a trauma that a sane and normal mind would be unable to withstand." The description of this play's setting includes an old-fashioned icebox on a porch, two oil drum garbage receptors, a wooden sawhorse, and a tree with a ball of rags hanging from it.
  - A character in this play's dancing is described as "slow, strange" and (*) "atavistic." A stage direction in this play describes a batting posture as a character taunts "Death, the fastball on the outside corner." At the end of this play, "the gates of heaven stand open as wide as God's closet" after Gabriel fails to blow on a trumpet.
  - For 10 points, name this play about Troy Maxson's job as a garbage collector in Pittsburgh, by August Wilson. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Geography
     Answer: hedge [or hedgerows or hedgebank or Devon hedge or Cornish hedge; prompt on plants or shrubs or trees or bushes; before any of these terms are read, prompt on mazes or labyrinths or barriers or live fences or walls by asking "what were they made of?"]
  - A giant one of these structures along the A93 Perth-Blairgowrie  Road, dating to the Battle of Culloden, is named for the town of Meikleour. [PWR]
  - The Sherman Rhinoceros was developed to destroy these structures in the bocage of Normandy following D-Day. [PWR]
  - The Midland style of these structures slopes towards heavy bullocks. [PWR]
  - To enforce a salt tax in India, British officials built a 1,100-mile-long "Great" one of these structures. [PWR]
  - In the 1607 Newton Rebellion, commoners tore down these (*) living structures to protest enclosure. [PWR]
  - British formal gardens once routinely included mazes made from these structures.
  - For 10 points, name these closely-placed shrubs that are widely used as fences and barriers in the UK. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 PACE NSC (2025) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Fences
  - In this play, a man says, "I give you my sweat and my blood," but that he's spent all his tears, in a speech where he describes trying to "blast a hole into forever." A woman in this play says, "I took all...my dreams...and I buried them inside you," leading a man to exclaim, "You say I take and don't give!" A man in this play sings, "Hear it ring!" in a song about the "good old dog" (*) Blue, and claims that "Death ain't nothing but a fastball on the outside corner." In this play, Gabriel blows a trumpet to "tell St. [PWR]
  - Peter to open the gates" after his brother's funeral.
  - A patriarch in this play tries to discourage his son Cory from playing football.
  - For 10 points, the Pittsburgh garbage truck driver Troy Maxson is the protagonist of what August Wilson play? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 Nora Barnacle Memorial Tournament (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Fenimore Cooper's literary offences [accept novels/books/works/pages/passages/sentences by James Fenimore Cooper; accept "Cooper's Prose Style"; prompt on partial answers with "whose?"]
  - In one work about these things, the author describes how "the science of cookery" helps turn "a mere statistic" into something "chromo." That essay about these things calls "Digestible sustenance" handsome and ends " Number of words, 220 - and the facts are all in." A sequel to a work about these things says that a counterpart to one of these things "holds up its chin and moves to the front with the steady stride of a grenadier" while one of these things "simpers along." One of these things anticipates incel culture in always using "females" to refer to women. [PWR]
  - At the beginning of one work, an author accuses Wilkie Collins of never having read the perpetrator of these things and says that instead of the (*) right word, its "second cousin" is used in one of these things, as well as a lack of "eschew[ing] surplusage." That essay about these things claims that an earlier author has committed 114 of them out of 115 possible. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name these things that title a Mark Twain essay critical of The Deerslayer. [GIVE]

[T5] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Geography
     Answer: fog [or niebla or word forms of foggy; accept mist nets; accept cloud cover, cloudy, cloud forests, stratus, stratocumulus, nubes, or nublado; accept fog deserts, fog fences, fog nets, atrapanieblas, or Bassaricyon neblina; prompt on humidity, condensation, condense, moisture, dew, water vapor, water vapor, H2O, water droplets, precipitation, or aerosols; reject "rain"] (Rain gauges fail to record "occult precipitation" from fog. Melville evoked the "higher horror" of Lima's whiteness in "The Whiteness of the Whale.")
  - Note to moderator: Read the answerline carefully.
  - This phenomenon provides the species name of the olinguito, which inhabits an ecotone named for this phenomenon in the Choco's Mashpi reserve that may become the first acoustic World Heritage Site.
  - Polyolefin "fences" in Huehuetenango  collect this phenomenon during an "occult" process that supports Madeira's laurisilva.
  - Tropical ecologists catch birds with this phenomenon's namesake "nets." A type of this phenomenon called camanchaca or garua led Hermann Melville to dub Lima "the strangest saddest city thou can'st see." Ecosystems fed by this phenomenon include acidic, montane elfin forests, the tule  wetlands, and Monteverde in Costa Rica.
  - This phenomenon's Pacific belt creates oases called lomas in the Atacama, its namesake type of desert.
  - For 10 points, coastal redwoods rely on drip from what phenomenon that often envelops San Francisco? [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Mythology
     Answer: houses [or homes or households or huts; accept hearths or fireplaces or chimneys; prompt on fences or gates until read by asking "what place does it enclose?"; prompt on doors or keyholes; prompt on forest by asking "what place in the forest?"]
  - A flock of geese brings Sergei to one of these places after he and his sister Olga sneak out while their mother is away. [PWR]
  - A [emphasize] benevolent spirit who appears as an old woman with a chicken's beak called the kikimora frequents these places. [PWR]
  - A cat, dog, and birch tree allow one figure to escape another of these places after receiving pie, bread, and a ribbon. [PWR]
  - In an alternative version of that story, the inhabitant of one of these places kicks out a visitor with a (*) "mother's blessing," but gives her a skull. [PWR]
  - Horsemen clad in white, red, and black ride to one of these places, where they vanish at a gate made of bones.
  - Angry domovoy can burn down these places.
  - Vasilisa the Fair is sent by her stepmother to one of these places to retrieve fire.
  - For 10 points, Baba Yaga lives in one of what places that walks on chicken legs? [GIVE]

[T7] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: fences
  - In a monologue, a man in a "quiet rage" informs "Mr.
  - Death" that he is working on one of these objects and that he is ready to meet death "Man to man." A woman hanging up clothes sings a hymn in which she compares Jesus to one of these objects before discussing playing the (*) numbers with her husband.
  - A family's patriarch berates his son for going to football practice rather than helping to saw wood for one of these objects.
  - For 10 points, what objects title a play about the Maxson family by August Wilson? [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer:  Fences
  - In this play, a character compares his father to "a shadow that followed you everywhere" which was "digging in your flesh.
  - Trying to crawl in." In this play, a woman laments to her husband, "I planted myself inside you and waited to bloom," only to find that the "soil was hard and rocky." This play's protagonist ridicules his son Lyons when he asks for a loan of ten dollars.
  - At this play's end, a character performs a strange dance and song to open the gates of heaven after his trumpet fails to sound.
  - In this play, the motherless baby Raynell is raised by Rose.
  - In this play, Cory's college football dreams are crushed by his father, who faced racism as a baseball player.
  - For 10 points, name this Pittsburgh Cycle play about the garbage collector Troy Maxson, written by August Wilson. [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: barbed wire [accept razor wire or bobbed wire or barbed fence; accept devil's rope until read; prompt on wire; prompt on fences by asking "what material were they made out of?"]
  - La Crosse, Kansas, which was once the "world's capital" of this technology, now contains a museum dedicated to it.
  - While working for Washburn and Moen, John "Bet-a-Million" Gates was inspired by Doc Lighthall to demonstrate this technology at San Francisco's Military Plaza.
  - Mabel Doss Day was one of the "anti-clippers" who supported this technology and called on the Texas Rangers to enforce its spread.
  - Despite having sent his patent request two months later than its actual inventor, Jacob Haish claimed to be the originator of an "S-shaped" version of this technology.
  - Joseph Glidden's invention of this "devil's rope" brought the demise of the open range.
  - For 10 points, name this sharp material that was used by farmers in the western United States to prevent cattle from roaming. [GIVE]

[T10] 2020 SCALE (2020) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Fences
  - A character in this work claims that he saw the Army of Death marching towards him like "soldiers on parade" while earlier stating that a man did not know if he was carrying a watermelon. [PWR]
  - At the beginning of this play, Mr. [PWR]
  - Rand demands a character head to a commissioner's office, while later a woman complains about a store charging ten cents more than the A&P for a loaf of bread. [PWR]
  - At the end of this play, characters sing about a dog named Blue as tribute, and a man named (*) Brownie serves as the accomplice for this work's protagonist. [PWR]
  - Alberta dies in childbirth near the end of this play, in which the protagonist's brother Gabriel constantly plays the trumpet.
  - Cory and Troy Maxon appear in, For 10 points, what sixth play in August Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle? [GIVE]

[T11] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Geography
     Answer: fences [prompt on walls, I guess?]
  - One of these structures which doubles as a giant aquarium was installed by Turkish businessman Mehmet Ali Gokceoglu ["goek-cheh-oh-loo"] at his villa in Cesme ["chesh-may"]. [PWR]
  - Christo and Jeanne-Claude created a "Running" one of these structures in the Bay Area which was comprised of nylon sheets, and was totally disassembled after 14 days. [PWR]
  - A novel partially titled for one of these structures describes indigenous (*) Australian girls following it to return to their ancestral home. [PWR]
  - That one of these structures was built in Western Australia in order to curtail the movement of rabbits.
  - For 10 points, identify these structures which are often used to separate plots of land. [GIVE]

[T12] 2019 Guerrilla History (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Rabbit-proof fences [or State Barrier Fence of Western Australia; or the State Vermin Fence; or the Emu Fence until "emu" is read]
  - After the first of these structures was breached, a second was built further east starting at the city of Point Ann. [PWR]
  - These structures were rendered obsolete by the introduction of the Myxonoma virus. [PWR]
  - After its construction in 1907, the third of these structures was renamed after (*) emus. [PWR]
  - In a memoir by Doris Pilkington that was later adapted for a film, she describes her mother's escape from a boarding school by following one of these structures for hundreds of miles.
  - For 10 points, name these structures built in Western Australia to keep an invasive lagomorph from crossing a certain longitude. [GIVE]

[T13] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Fences
  - This play's protagonist recalls facing his father and seeing "the devil himself" before being beaten unconscious and having to walk 200 miles to Mobile .
  - A character in this play is arrested for harassing kids, claiming that he's "chasing hellhounds." At the end of this play, characters sing about a dog that "treed a possum in Noah's Ark" named "old Blue" at a funeral where a man who thinks he's an (*) angel blows his horn three times to open the gates of heaven. [PWR]
  - In this play, the protagonist's mistress Alberta dies giving birth to his love child, who is raised by his wife Rose.
  - This play's protagonist prevents his son Cory from playing football and claims that his baseball career failed because he "wasn't the right color." For 10 points, name this play set in Pittsburgh about the garbage collector Troy Maxson, written by August Wilson. [GIVE]

[T14] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: barriers on the Israeli border [accept walls, fences, or equivalents in place of "barriers"; accept Palestine, West Bank, or Gaza Strip in place of "Israel"; prompt on partial answer]
  - During the 2013 holidays, one of these structures was partly replicated at London's St.
  - James Church in a campaign promoted by a quote of then-recently deceased Nelson Mandela.
  - The documentary 5 Broken Cameras follows the making of one of them in the city of Bil'in (beel EEN).
  - The company Magal (mah-GAHL), which began by building one of these structures, experienced a 6-percent rise in its stock after the 2016 presidential election.
  - In March 2017, Banksy opened a hotel with views of one of these structures.
  - They controversially deviate from the course of the Green Line, were claimed to be 99.9-percent effective by Donald Trump, and were first built after the Second Intifada.
  - For 10 points, identify these structures that keep many Muslims from entering a Jewish state. [GIVE]

[T15] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Fences
  - One character in this play claims to have wrestled with Death for three days and nights and uses an excuse of renting furniture from the Devil to avoid lending his son ten dollars. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of this play repeatedly sings about a dog Blue who "treed a possum in a hollow log". [PWR]
  - This play ends with one character failing to (+) blow his horn three times. [PWR]
  - The protagonist's mistress Alberta dies giving birth to Raynell.
  - The protagonist is promoted to (*) driver from his position as garbage man, and he prohibits his son Cory from playing football.
  - For ten points, identify this play in which the former baseball player Troy Maxson builds the title object, written by August Wilson. [GIVE]

[T16] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Fences
  - At this play's end, a mentally impaired war veteran unsuccessfully tries to use a broken trumpet to open up heaven, after which he dances and cries out.
  - This play's protagonist talks about having had a fight with Death while talking to his friend Bono on payday in his front yard, the same location where the rest of this play is set.
  - Alberta dies in childbirth in this play, leading the child's father to ask if his daughter Raynell can be raised by his wife (*) Rose. [PWR]
  - This play's protagonist refuses to let his son Cory apply for a football scholarship because of the racism he was subject to as a player in the Negro Leagues, and becomes the first black garbage truck driver in town.
  - For 10 points, name this play about Troy Maxson, the sixth play in August Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle. [GIVE]

[T17] 2015 SHEIKH (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: barbed wire [or barb wire; or barbed fence; or bob wire; prompt on fences or wires or similar answers]
  - The opposition to this product by "nesters" prompted gangs like the Blue Devils to begin destroying it, leading Governor John Ireland to call a special legislative session.
  - This product was sold by the Washburn-Moen Company and by a salesman nicknamed "Bet-a-million" who organized unlicensed "moonshiner" producers of this product, John Warne Gates. [PWR]
  - During a harsh winter, this product was responsible for the deaths of thousands of animals in an event called the Big Die-Up. [PWR]
  - William Edenborn designed a (*) humane form of this product, whose introduction cut down on the cultivation of Osage Orange.
  - This product was invented by a farmer from Illinois named Samuel Glidden, and it effectively ended the open range era by restricting the movement of cattle drives.
  - For 10 points, name this steel material used for fencing today and in the Old West. [GIVE]

[T18] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Fences
  - One character in this play recounts his time living on Logan Street and discusses the merits of shopping at Bella's versus the A&P. [PWR]
  - Another character in this play believes himself to be his namesake archangel and plays his trumpet for his dead brother in the final scene. [PWR]
  - Alberta dies giving birth to its protagonist's love child (*) Raynell, who is subsequently raised by the main character's wife, Rose. [PWR]
  - This play centers on a man who prohibits his son Cory from accepting a football scholarship because of his own inability to play professional baseball due to the color of his skin.
  - For 10 points, name this player about the sanitation worker Troy Maxson, a work in the Pittsburgh Cycle by August Wilson. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: David Rabe's trilogy of plays about this war includes Sticks and Bones, which Christopher Durang parodied in a play set in suburban New Jersey. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vietnam War [or Second Indochina War or Chien tranh Viet Nam or Khang Chien Chong My] (Durang's play is The Vietnamization of New Jersey.)):
    Name this war that is the subject of plays like Terence McNally's Botticelli and Shirley Lauro's A Piece of My Heart, as well as Tim O'Brien's collection The Things They Carried.
  Part 2 (ans: Sam Shepard [or Samuel Shepard Rogers III]):
    This playwright's La Turista allegorizes the Vietnam War via two tourists who grow ill in Mexico. In a play by this author, an old man wears a baseball cap to stop his amputee son from shaving his head while he sleeps.
  Part 3 (ans: Wilson [accept Lanford Wilson or August Wilson] (The latter play is Fences.)):
    A playwright with this surname depicted the amputee Vietnam veteran Kenneth Talley Jr. in the play Fifth of July. Another playwright with this surname created a brain-damaged veteran who blows a trumpet at his brother's funeral.

[B2] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about refrigerators as symbols of working-class struggle in American theatre, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Willy Loman [or William Loman; prompt on Loman]):
    This character exclaims that "once in my life I would like to own something outright before it's broken" while bemoaning his perpetually broken Hastings refrigerator to his wife Linda in Death of a Salesman.
  Part 2 (ans: Curse of the Starving Class (by Sam Shepard)):
    In this play, a girl talks to her family's empty refrigerator, which her brother fills with artichokes. This play's central family includes a girl working on a 4-H project about chicken butchery and a drunk who breaks their door.
  Part 3 (ans: Fences (by August Wilson)):
    Bono finally agrees to buy a fridge for his wife on a bet with this play's protagonist. A woman in this play asks her husband "don't you think I had dreams and hopes?" after he reveals that his mistress Alberta is pregnant.

[B3] 2024 ACF Fall (2024) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: When this play's protagonist brings his illegitimate daughter Raynell home, Rose calls him a "womanless man,"prompting him to sing a song about a man begging a train captain for a ticket. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences):
    Name this play set in Pittsburgh that depicts garbage collector Troy Maxson trying to stop his son Cory from joining a football team.
  Part 2 (ans: baseball):
    In August Wilson's play Fences, Troy played in the Negro leagues in this sport. In The Old Man and the Sea, Santiago is inspired by the ability of "the great DiMaggio" in this sport, and declares "have faith in the Yankees my son."
  Part 3 (ans: Ma Rainey's Black Bottom):
    This other August Wilson play set in Chicago is partially titled for a blues singer. In this play, the trumpet player Levee stabs the piano player Toledo while attempting to record the title song.

[B4] 2023 ACF Fall (2023) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play sings about a dog who "treed a possum in Noah's Ark." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences):
    Name this play, which follows a garbage truck driver who prevents his son, Cory, from playing football.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    This playwright included Fences in his Pittsburgh Cycle along with The Piano Lesson.
  Part 3 (ans: trumpets [accept Gabriel's horn; prompt on instruments]):
    Fences ends with World War II veteran Gabriel Maxson attempting to open the gates of heaven by using a broken one of these objects three times.

[B5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After failing to use this object, a character in a play who "[chases] hellhounds" is left "bare and exposed to a frightful realization." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel Maxson's trumpet [accept the trumpet from Fences]):
    Name this object. At Troy Maxson's funeral, a mentally handicapped character who believes he's an archangel attempts to use this object to open the gates of heaven.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    Gabriel tries to open the gates of Heaven with his trumpet in this author's play Fences, which is part of this author's Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: a Coca-Cola [or Coke; prompt on soft drink or pop or soda]):
    In Wilson's play Ma Rainey's Black Bottom, the trumpeter Levee makes out with Dussie Mae during a recording session delay caused by Irvin forgetting to bring this item. The session starts when Slow Drag and Sylvester return with this item.

[B6] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Geography
     Leadin: On account of its ubiquity in the roofs of suburban and rural houses in each country, this material has become an unusual symbol of cultural pride for Australians and New Zealanders. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: corrugated (galvanized) iron [or CGI; or wriggly tin; or pailing; or corrugated sheet metal; or corrugated wrought iron]):
    Name this cheap, ridged building material which has seen widespread adoption after World War II due to its light weight and anti-corrosive properties. Despite its name, it is usually made with steel in the present day.
  Part 2 (ans: pest-exclusion fences [accept rabbit-proof fences, emu fence, dingo or dog fence, or the State Vermin Fence; prompt on barriers; reject "walls"]):
    Australian pride over corrugated iron can be traced in part to its use in these structures, massive examples of which were built by the state to exclude dingoes, emus, and/or rabbits from agricultural regions of the country.
  Part 3 (ans: MONA [or Museum of Old and New Art]):
    This museum in Hobart, featuring an oxidized iron facade and accessible only by boat, was founded by eccentric professional gambler David Walsh and hosts the yearly "Dark Mofo" music festival.

[B7] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: After this action is performed, the character who performed it dances and shouts "That's the way that go!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gabriel blowing his trumpet [accept equivalent descriptions; prompt on blowing a trumpet or playing a trumpet with "who blows the trumpet?"]):
    Name this action that takes place shortly before Troy's funeral. After this action, "the gates of heaven stand open as wide as God's closet."
  Part 2 (ans: Fences):
    Gabriel blows his trumpet at the end of this August Wilson play, a part of his Pittsburgh Cycle which chronicles Troy Maxson leaving Rose for Alberta and later dying.
  Part 3 (ans: Ma Rainey's Black Bottom):
    The trumpeter Levee stabs Toledo after the latter steps on his shoes at the climax of this other play in the Pittsburgh Cycle, which centers around a jazz band's recording session.

[B8] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play by this author, Amir admits to feeling a "blush of pride" on 9/11 because "we were finally winning," comparing it to how he imagines Jews feel about Israel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ayad Akhtar):
    Name this playwright who depicted dinner party discourse on Muslim-American identity in his Pulitzer-winning play Disgraced.
  Part 2 (ans: investment bank [or investment firm; or investment company]):
    Akhtar's later play Junk follows Robert Merkin, who works at one of these institutions. Stefano Massini's Lehman Trilogy is titled for one of these institutions that collapsed in 2008.
  Part 3 (ans: Pennsylvania (The section is titled "Scranton Memoirs." The play is Fences.)):
    In a section of his novel Homeland Elegies, Akhtar recalls being harassed by a state trooper after his car breaks down in this state. In a play set in this state, a man blows his trumpet three times before the protagonist's funeral.

[B9] 2021 SMH (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A man says this phrase after approaching like "an old-stone savage armed," causing the narrator of a poem to remark, "He moves in darkness as it seems to me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Good fences make good neighbors"):
    Name this phrase spoken by a man when he and the narrator repair a stone object in one poem. That man says this phrase despite the narrator's reassurance that his "apple trees will never get across" to the man's yard.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert (Lee) Frost):
    "Good fences make good neighbors" is the last line of "Mending Wall," a poem by this New England poet. This author's other picturesque poems include "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."
  Part 3 (ans: cows [or calves] (The unnamed poem is "The Pasture.")):
    To "put a notion" in his neighbor's head, the narrator of "Mending Wall'' notes that "here there are'' none of these creatures. Another Frost poem that repeats the line "I sha'n't be long.-You come too" is about watching one of these creatures get licked by its mother.

[B10] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After being told this phrase, the narrator of a poem mischievously questions it by responding 'Isn't it where there are cows? But here there are no cows'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 'good fences make good neighbors'):
    Name this 'father's saying' which a character famously repeats while rebuilding broken stonework in the poem "Mending Wall".
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Frost):
    "Mending Wall" is by this American poet, who describes how he 'took the one less traveled by' in his poem "The Road Not Taken".
  Part 3 (ans: apple trees [prompt on apples; prompt on trees]):
    The narrator's neighbour first quotes that phrase after being told that these things 'will never get across / and eat the cones'. Another Frost narrator wonders if his sleep is 'just some human sleep' after becoming 'overtired' while removing objects from one of these things.

[B11] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: At the end of this play, a World War II veteran who believes he's a saint tries to play a broken trumpet to open heaven's gates. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences):
    Name this play. In this play, Alberta dies giving birth to Raynell after having an affair with a black garbage truck driver, who later kicks his Cory son out of the house.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    Fences is the sixth of 10 plays in the Pittsburgh Cycle, which was written by this playwright.
  Part 3 (ans: Sweat (by Lynn Nottage)):
    In this other play set in Pennsylvania, Jason disables Stan while attacking Oscar with a baseball bat. In this play, the Olsted Steel Mill keeps laying off employees and outsourcing production to non-union workers.

[B12] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Home Secretary David Maxwell-Fyfe commissioned this document that focused on interviews with Carl Winter, Patrick Trevor-Roper, and Peter Wildeblood. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wolfenden report [accept Report of the Departmental Committee on Homosexual Offences and Prostitution]):
    Name this 1957 document. Harold Macmillan's government initially rejected the findings of this document, which advocated for the decriminalization of homosexuality in Great Britain.
  Part 2 (ans: Roy Jenkins [or Roy Harris Jenkins, Baron Jenkins of Hillhead]):
    This Labour Home Secretary oversaw the passage of the Sexual Offences Act in 1967, which partially decriminalized homosexuality, in addition to laws legalizing abortion and banning capital punishment.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret Thatcher):
    Among the Conservative lawmakers to vote in favor of the Sexual Offences Act was this future Prime Minister nicknamed the "Iron Lady."

[B13] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: These structures were built by the dozen in the Loire valley under Fulk the Black of Anjou. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: castles):
    Name these defensive fortifications which often housed fortified towers called donjons or "keeps."
  Part 2 (ans: motte AND bailey):
    Medieval castles often used this pair of fortifications, which consisted of a raised mound of earth with a keep on top, and a fortified courtyard surrounded by a ditch. Name both parts.
  Part 3 (ans: palisades [or paling; prompt on fences]):
    Baileys were often surrounded by this kind of wall, which is made from stakes or tree trunks stuck in the ground.

[B14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This text argues that masturbation is "the most incontestably pernicious" "irregularity of the venereal appetite", but any law against it would be impossible to enforce. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Offences Against One's Self: Paederasty"):
    Name this essay by Jeremy Bentham first published in 1978. This essay pushes for the decriminalization of sodomy and refutes the argument that gay sex violates women's rights by robbing them of venereal tribute.
  Part 2 (ans: pain and pleasure):
    Bentham more notably wrote that "nature has placed mankind under the governance of" these two sovereign masters, which determine both "what we ought to do" and "what we shall do". Bentham identified physical, moral, political, and religious "sanctions" of these two sensations.
  Part 3 (ans: animal rights [or animal liberation]):
    In An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation, Bentham also argued for this cause. This cause was later supported by Peter Singer in a book that coined the term "speciesism."

[B15] 2017 SUN (2017) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This play was adapted into a 2016 film starring Denzel Washington and Viola Davis as the central couple. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences):
    Name this play about the woes of the unfaithful Troy and his wife Rose in 1950s Pittsburg. Troy is repeated asked to build one of the title structures on a series of Saturdays he has off work as a garbageman.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    Fences is by this African American playwright who set works like Radio Golf and The Piano Lesson in Pittsburgh.
  Part 3 (ans: baseball):
    In Fences, Troy was a former professional player of this sport. Troy often complains about contemporary white players being less skilled at this sport than he was in his prime.

[B16] 2016 PACE NSC (2016) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: Doaker tells a story about this object in which a mob sets the train Yellow Dog on fire after it was stolen. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the piano from The Piano Lesson):
    Name this object into which Willie Boy carves images of his family. Berniece uses this thing to remove the spirits haunting her home at the conclusion of the play about it.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel Jr.]):
    The history of the piano figures heavily into this author's play The Piano Lesson; other plays from his Pittsburgh Cycle include Radio Golf.
  Part 3 (ans: Fences):
    Troy Maxson, a former baseball player, works as a trash collector in this other play by August Wilson, which partly centers on Troy's son Cory winning a college football scholarship.

[B17] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This character claims he survived pneumonia in the summer of 1941 by wrestling Death for three days and three nights. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Troy Maxson):
    Name this character whose motto "You got to take the crookeds with the straights" is repeated by his son Lyons.
  Part 2 (ans: Fences):
    Former baseball player Troy Maxson is the protagonist of this August Wilson play.
  Part 3 (ans: the Blues):
    August Wilson liked to claim that his influences were Amiri Baraka, Jorge Luis Borges, Romare Bearden, and this musical style practiced by the characters of Ma Rainey's Black Bottom.

[B18] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Risa, a follower of Prophet Samuel, slashes her legs with a razor to avoid being treated as a sex object. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Two Trains Running):
    Name this play that ends with Sterling smashing a butcher's window to steal ham for his deceased friend, Hambone. Sterling, Wolf, and Holloway are among the patrons of Memphis Lee's diner in this play.
  Part 2 (ans: Fences):
    In this play by the author of Two Trains Running, Alberta dies giving birth to Raynell, the daughter of former baseball player Troy Maxson. It ends with Troy's brother, Gabriel, blowing a stopped trumpet to send Troy to heaven.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel, Jr.]):
    Two Trains Running and Fences are part of this African-American playwright's ten-part Pittsburgh cycle.

[B19] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about "The Pittsburgh Cycle,"for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seven Guitars):
    This fifth installment of the "Pittsburgh Cycle" set during the 1940s opens with Floyd Barton's release from prison.
  Part 2 (ans: Fences):
    Seven Guitars is chronologically followed by this play that centers on garbageman Troy Maxson and his son Cory.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    This African-American playwright included Seven Guitars and Fences, along with The Piano Lesson, in his "Pittsburgh Cycle."

[B20] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This politician chaired a namesake commission set up in 1997 to investigate avenues of British electoral reform. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roy Jenkins [or Roy Harris Jenkins, Baron Jenkins of Hillhead; grudgingly accept Leeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeroyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy Jenkinssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss]):
    Name this man who became MP for Glasgow-Hillhead in a significant 1982 victory, and had presided over the legalization of abortion, abolition of capital punishment, and relaxation of divorce law during his tenure as Home Secretary from 1965-67.
  Part 2 (ans: decriminalization of homosexuality [accept equivalents, accept making homosexuality legal; accept Sexual Offences Act of 1967]):
    In a parliamentary debate over this 1967 legislative action, Roy Jenkins stated that "those who suffer from this disability carry a great weight of shame all their lives." This act applied to men of age 21 or greater in England and Wales.
  Part 3 (ans: Tony Blair [or Anthony Charles Lynton Blair]):
    Jenkins chaired his namesake Commission while serving as an adviser to this Labour Prime Minister, who took part in the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq.

[B21] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this play was a promising baseball player but couldn't play in the big leagues due to his race. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences):
    Name this play in which a garbage collector, Troy Maxson, struggles with raising his son Cory.
  Part 2 (ans: " August Wilson):
    This African-American playwright included Fences, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom and The Piano Lesson in his Pittsburgh Cycle.
  Part 3 (ans: a trumpet):
    In Fences, Troy's mentally disabled brother Gabriel always carries around one of these instruments. Gabriel tries to play it during Troy's funeral but no sound comes out.

[B22] 2014 PACE NSC (2014) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's mother Alberta, who never appears onstage, dies in childbirth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Raynell Maxson [prompt on "Maxson"]):
    Name this baby, the daughter of a washed-up baseball player who didn't manage to break the color line in the majors. She is raised by that man's wife Rose.
  Part 2 (ans: Fences):
    Raynell is the illegitimate daughter of Troy Maxson, who refuses to allow his son Cory to pursue a football scholarship in this 1983 play.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    This African-American playwright included Fences alongside Radio Golf and The Piano Lesson in his ten-part Pittsburgh Cycle.

[B23] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer these questions about the military tactics at the 1415 Battle of Agincourt, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: longbows [prompt on "bow", etc.]):
    At Agincourt, the superior range of this English weapon helped Henry V's troops defeat Charles d'Albret. It was usually slightly taller than a grown man.
  Part 2 (ans: the English baggage train [or the English supply caravan; accept any answer indicating the part of the English encampment where supplies are stored; prompt on "camp"]):
    This segment of the English operation was attacked in the only successful French assault of the battle, commanded by Ysembart d'Azincourt. Upon hearing that this area had been attacked, Henry V executed the French prisoners in his care.
  Part 3 (ans: pointed wooden stakes [or palings; or fences; do not accept or prompt on "spears," "lances," or any type of polearm weapon]):
    The English set up these devices at an angle to ward off charges from French cavalry.

[B24] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Mr. Rand allows a character in this play to drive garbage trucks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fences ):
    Name this play, in which Alberta dies after giving birth and Rose adopts the baby, Raynell. Its main conflict concerns Cory's desire to play football and quit his job at the supermarket.
  Part 2 (ans: August Wilson):
    This American playwright wrote about Troy Maxson in Fences, and depicted the conflict between Boy Willie and Berniece in The Piano Lesson.
  Part 3 (ans: Gabriel Maxson [prompt on Maxson]):
    Fences ends with this character playing a musical instrument after escaping from the insane asylum. He received a head injury in World War II and has a metal plate in his head.

[B25] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character promises to buy a TV to watch the World Series if his son can supply $100, half the cost of the TV. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Troy Maxson [prompt on "Maxson"]):
    Name this man who steals money from his brother, Gabriel, and has an affair with the unseen Alberta, who dies in childbirth; this character's wife adopts the baby who later plants seeds in the family's yard.
  Part 2 (ans: Fences):
    Troy Maxson is the main character of this play. This play ends with Jim Bono buying a refrigerator to uphold a promise he made that he would buy one when the title structure is completed.
  Part 3 (ans: August Wilson):
    Fences is part of this American Author's "Pittsburgh Cycle" which also includes The Piano Lesson.
