=== STOCK CLUES: Leibovitz ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Annie Leibovitz [or Anna-Lou Leibovitz] (The portrait in the second line is of Keith Haring.)
  - This photographer recalls how the first thing they did after purchasing a Minolta SR-T 101 was climb Mount Fuji in the memoir "At Work." A portrait by this photographer depicts a nude artist standing atop a coffee table covered in white paint with black lines, blending in with a similarly patterned living room. [PWR]
  - A blood smear lies next to a fallen bicycle in a photo this photographer took while in Sarajevo with their partner (*) Susan Sontag. [PWR]
  - A nude man curls in a near-fetal position around his fully-dressed wife in a 1981 photo by this photographer.
  - This photographer ignited a craze with a 1991 Vanity Fair cover depicting a seven-months-pregnant, nude Demi Moore.
  - For 10 points, name this photographer who captured Yoko Ono and John Lennon embracing on the day of Lennon's assassination. [GIVE]

[T2] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Annie Leibovitz
  - Emulating Margaret Bourke-White, this artist mounted one of the eagle gargoyles of the Chrysler Building to capture a tricky shot of dancer David Parsons.
  - A crescent streak of blood extends from an overturned bicycle in an image this artist took during the Bosnian War.
  - This artist shot a half nude David Cassidy for the cover of Rolling Stone and once photographed her lover Susan Sontag in a bear suit.
  - One of this artist's most famous photographs was taken just hours before one of its subjects was killed by Mark David Chapman.
  - In that photograph, a clothed Yoko Ono is kissed by a curled-up, naked John Lennon.
  - For 10 points, identify this portrait photographer most recently famous for her controversial topless photo of Miley Cyrus. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer shot a 1992 image of Demi Moore in a body-painted "Birthday Suit," one year after her landmark cover photo of Moore pregnant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annie Leibovitz [or Anna-Lou Leibovitz]):
    Name this longtime celebrity portrait photographer who photographed Yoko Ono and John Lennon together just hours before the latter's murder.
  Part 2 (ans: milk):
    Leibovitz's other nude photos include one of Whoopi Goldberg submerged in a tub of this substance. MIT professor Doc Edgerton used ultra-high-speed photography to capture a drop of this substance forming a coronet.
  Part 3 (ans: album covers [or album art; prompt on cover photos or cover art by asking "of what?"] (The albums are Born in the U.S.A. and Abbey Road.)):
    In a photo with this purpose by Leibovitz, a man in a white shirt and jeans faces a flag. Photos with this purpose include one by Robert Mapplethorpe for Horses and one of four men striding in profile on a crosswalk.

[B2] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist moved to Freshwater on the Isle of Wight after visiting their friend Alfred, Lord Tennyson. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julia Margaret  Cameron [or Julia Margaret  Pattle ]):
    Name this artist who photographed Alice Liddell as the Roman goddess Pomona and Sir Henry Taylor as King David.
  Part 2 (ans:  Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or the  Pre-Raphaelites ; or  PRB ]):
    Cameron was associated with this artistic group, whose members included William Holman Hunt and Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie  Leibovitz [or Anna-Lou  Leibovitz ]):
    This photographer documented Cameron's cottage in the book Pilgrimage . This photographer's portraits include two nude Vanity Fair covers depicting a nude Demi Moore and several portraits of their lover, Susan Sontag.

[B3] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Iain Macmillan had only ten minutes to take photographs of this group, a member of which appears walking barefoot to the right across a zebra crossing. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Beatles):
    Name this band whose members pose in a Pop Art collage of historical figures on the cover of their album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band.
  Part 2 (ans: Richard Avedon):
    This fashion photographer used solarization to create psychedelic portraits of The Beatles. This creator of the collection In the American West captured the model Dovima in a Dior dress posing with elephants.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    This photographer depicted John Lennon embracing his wife Yoko Ono on the day he was killed. A Vanity Fair cover by this woman depicts its subject in a white dress with the caption "Call Me Caitlyn."

[B4] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted themselves and their shadow defying gravity while wearing Elmo pants and standing on a chair in the series Bram Stoker's Chair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sam Taylor-Wood (accept Sam Taylor-Johnson)):
    Name this artist whose work David depicts David Beckham sleeping over the course of an hour.
  Part 2 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    Taylor Wood collaborated with Henry Bond to recreate this female photographer's iconic portrait of John Lennon and Yoko Ono on the day that he died in the work 26 October 1993.
  Part 3 (ans: actors):
    In a photographic series, Taylor-Wood took a series of photographs of men with this profession crying. A person with this profession collaborated with Ronkko & Turner in the piece #INTRODUCTIONS in which he performed an exaggerated motivational speech in front of a green-screen.

[B5] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer garnered controversy for taking a shot of the back of a 15-year-old nude Miley Cyrus in 2008. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annie Leibovitz [or Anna-Lou Leibovitz]):
    Name this contemporary portrait photographer, who chose to focus less on models and sexuality and used subjects such as Serena Williams and Amy Schumer for the 2016 Pirelli Calendar.
  Part 2 (ans: Yoko Ono [accept either underlined portion]):
    One of the women Leibovitz depicted was this artist of Cut Piece, who lay in bed with her husband John Lennon in a piece of performance art to protest the Vietnam War.
  Part 3 (ans: Margaret Bourke-White):
    In 1991, Leibovitz imitated this other photographer by taking pictures from the Chrysler Building's gargoyles. This artist's photos of the Depression-era South are collected in You Have Seen Their Faces.

[B6] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In 1945 this man displayed his photographs at the one man show titled Artists Look Like This Exhibit, which brought him to nation-wide attention. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Arnold Newman):
    Name this American photographer, best known for his "environmental portraits," such as one showing JFK with the white house in the background.
  Part 2 (ans: National Geographic):
    Another environmental portraitist, Joe McNally, created "The Future of Flying" project for this magazine. It is recognizable by its striking yellow borders.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    This photographer's portrait of Maurice Sendak with his dog is another celebrated environmental portrait. A double portrait by her shows a shirtless man embracing his wife a few hours before he was killed.

[B7] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Pop Culture
     Leadin: A character based on this woman was famously played by Meryl Streep opposite Anne Hathaway. For 10 points each, answer these questions on a fashion icon:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna Wintour):
    This British-born editor of American Vogue is known for her trademark bob haircut and frosty demeanour which has earned her the nickname "Nuclear".
  Part 2 (ans: Grace Coddington):
    Wintour's tumultuous relationship with this former model and current creative director of Vogue was the focus of the 2009 documentary The September Issue.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    Among Wintour's more controversial Vogue covers was one featuring LeBron James in a pose reminiscent of King Kong, shot by this artist who previously photographed a naked John Lennon.

[B8] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This photographer courted controversy for a Vanity Fair cover in which a clothed Tom Ford nibbles the ear of a nude Keira Knightley while a nude Scarlett Johansson lies beneath them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    Name this photographer, whose other magazine covers include a nude, pregnant Demi Moore for Vanity Fair, a nude John Lennon clinging to a clothed Yoko Ono for Rolling Stone, and Caitlyn Jenner's 2015 debut for Vanity Fair.
  Part 2 (ans: Destroy This Mad Brute):
    LeBron James and Gisele Bundchen controversially appeared to be recreating a WWI enlistment poster with this slogan on a 2008 Vogue cover shot by Annie Liebovitz. The original poster depicts a club-wielding gorilla in a German military helmet carrying off a fainted Lady Liberty.
  Part 3 (ans: Bloody Bicycle [or Fallen Bicycle of Teenage Boy Just Killed by a Sniper]):
    While in Sarajevo during the Bosnian War, Leibovitz also shot this photo, which depicts the title object on its side on the right with a thin trail of blood leading to a large pool of it on the right.

[B9] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these portrait photographers.
  Part 1 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    This photographer created many famous covers for Vanity Fair, including Whoopi Goldberg lying in a bathtub full of milk and Demi Moore holding her pregnant stomach. In 2015, she also photographed Vanity Fair's cover depicting Caitlyn Jenner.
  Part 2 (ans: Yousuf Karsh):
    This Armenian-Canadian photographer yanked Winston Churchill's cigar out of his mouth, resulting in his iconic portrait of a scowling Churchill for Life magazine. He often used separate lighting to illuminate a person's hands, such as in his portrait of a seated, introspective Albert Einstein.
  Part 3 (ans: Arnold Newman):
    This American depicted German industrialist Alfried Krupp sinisterly leaning forward to illustrate his complicity with the Nazis. He created many "environmental portraits" of politicians and artists, including one depicting Stravinsky next to the open lid of a grand piano.

[B10] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It became the world's most expensive photograph when it was sold for 2.9 million in 2006. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Pond-Moonlight):
    Name this pictorialist photograph, which was taken at a location in Mamaroneck, New York at a certain time of day. Its photographer manually layered light-sensitive gums over the negative to create the impression of color.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Steichen):
    The Pond-Moonlight was created by this photographer, who pioneered fashion photography for Vogue and Vanity Fair in the 1920s and 30s. He also organized The Family of Man exhibition at the Modern Museum of Art.
  Part 3 (ans: Annie Leibovitz):
    This modern photographer depicted a naked John Lennon lying in bed with a clothed Yoko Ono during her time as the chief photographer for Rolling Stone. Her many pictures of celebrities include one of Demi Moore holding her pregnant stomach for Vanity Fair.
