=== STOCK CLUES: Miracle of the Slave ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 7 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Miracle of the Slave [or St. Mark Freeing a Christian Slave; or The Miracle of St. Mark] 1
  - A cleaning of this rectangular painting revealed that it was originally intended to be a ceiling painting with its corners cut so that its final shape is octagonal.
  - This painting, which was originally painted for the Scuola Grande, depicts a marble temple in the background whose facade consists of four pilasters that have human forms as tops.
  - A man in this painting is about to be blinded for travelling to Alexandria to venerate a certain saint.
  - On its right side, a knight of Provence sits on a throne and gives orders to a white-turbaned man, whose two hands clutch a broken hammer.
  - At the top of this painting, which depicts a man who is about to be tortured and executed, a red-robed, orange-caped saint intervenes from the skies.
  - For 10 points, name this painting in which St. [GIVE]
  - Mark descends and frees the title servant, the first mature masterpiece of Tintoretto.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This work was commissioned along with three other canvases to hang opposite the altar in a Scuola Grande named for the saint this painting depicts. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Miracle of the Slave [accept The Miracle of St Mark]):
    Name this painting in which the central figure is surrounded by broken tools like an axe and a hammer. A large crowd on the left of the canvas watches on in awe while a certain saint flies in from the top of the canvas.
  Part 2 (ans: Tintoretto [accept Jacopo Robusti]):
    The Miracle of the Slave is a work by this Venetian Mannerist painter of The Origin of the Milky Way and a version of the Last Supper set in a dark room with the table at an angle and ghostly angels flying across the ceiling.
  Part 3 (ans: Christ washing the feet of his disciples [accept equivalent descriptive answers]):
    Tintoretto created multiple paintings of this other Biblical scene. One shows a red-clad Judas, a dog, and a kneeling Christ in the foreground of a large room with a blue- and grey-tiled floor.

[B2] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In one pair of works by this artist, the body of Saint Mark can be seen being discovered in a hallway and subsequently carried into Venice. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Jacopo Tintoretto [The title event is the Miracle of the Slave]):
    Name this artist, who in another work depicted a man in a white turban standing above a variety of broken tools while being interrupted by the title event.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Supper [Il Cenacolo or L'Ultima Cena]):
    Tintoretto's best-known work is a diagonal version of this scene housed in Venice's San Giorgio Maggiore. Christ is seated with outstretched arms in Da Vinci's depiction of this biblical scene.
  Part 3 (ans: The Origin of the Milky Way):
    In this other Tintoretto work, a dark eagle can be seen carrying a crab above two peacocks in the lower right corner. Stars emerge from Hera's hand while she nurses an infant Hercules in this painting.

[B3] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several stars shoot out from Hera's breast as Heracles is pulled away from it in this man's painting The Origin of the Milky Way. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin; or Jacopo Robusti]):
    Identify this Venetian mannerist, also the painter of a famous diagonally-oriented Last Supper, whose common nickname translates as "little dyer".
  Part 2 (ans: The Miracle of the Slave [or The Miracle of St. Mark Freeing the Slave; prompt on "The Miracle of St. Mark"]):
    In this Tintoretto painting, Saint Mark swoops down dramatically from the sky to prevent the execution-by- staking of the title naked figure.
  Part 3 (ans: Paradise):
    Tintoretto's son Domenico helped him complete this late commission for the Doge's Palace, an unbelievably massive, 74-by-30-foot canvas that depicts tiers of people arranged around a golden light representing the entrance to heaven.

[B4] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the upper-left hand corner of this painting, an observer from the East is perched precariously along the railing of a balcony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Miracle of the Slave [or The Miracle of St. Mark]):
    Name this painting in which several instruments of torture lie broken as a religious figure swoops down to rescue a follower who is being persecuted by his master for his devotion.
  Part 2 (ans: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin; or Jacopo Robusti]):
    This Venetian painter created The Miracle of the Slave for the Scuola Grande di San Marco, but is better known for a version of the Last Supper with a diagonal table. His nickname means "little dyer."
  Part 3 (ans: Michelangelo [or Michelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni]):
    A muscular red-clad figure in the painting is incredibly similar to the 20 "ignudi" painted by this artist, who painted a self-portrait as St. Bartholomew holding his flayed skin.

[B5] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painting is the most famous in its artist's St. Mark series. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Miracle of the Slave [accept The Miracle of St. Mark]):
    Name this painting that shows an upside down St. Mark at the top, as he saves the title figure, who lies on the ground at the bottom of this scene.
  Part 2 (ans: Tintoretto [accept Jacopo Comin]):
    This Italian painted The Miracle of the Slave. He also depicted Hera suckling Hercules in The Origin of the Milky Way.
  Part 3 (ans: The Last Supper):
    Among the works of Tintoretto is a depiction of this scene, which includes a diagonal representation of the apostles sitting at a table. A more famous depiction of this scene was created by Da Vinci.

[B6] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An eagle in this painting grasps some manner of crustacean beneath a woman who pitches forward in a flowing red robe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Origin of the Milky Way):
    Identify this painting whose nude central figure extends an arm outward and can be identified by the two peacocks at right.
  Part 2 (ans: Tintoretto [or Jacopo Comin]):
    This teacher of Marten de Vos and painter of The Deliverance of Arsinoe painted The Origin of the Milky Way. He's best known for a Mannerist Last Supper featuring ethereal angels flitting overhead.
  Part 3 (ans: The Miracle of the Slave):
    This Tintoretto painting shows the patron saint of Venice descending to protect the naked title figure, who is about to be rather aggressively martyred by angry pagans.
