=== STOCK CLUES: Jonson ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 44 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: William Shakespeare [or the Bard of Avon] (The tribute poems are "On Shakespeare. 1630" by John Milton and "To the Memory of My Beloved the Author, Mr. William Shakespeare" by Ben Jonson.)
  - A poem dedicated to this person draws a comparison to when "some infamous bawd or whore / Should praise a matron" and asks "what could hurt her more?" The speaker proposes "The labor of an age in piled stones" and "a star-ypointing pyramid" as monuments to this person in a poem that calls him a "Dear son of Memory, great heir of fame." This person was "not of an age but of all time" according to a tribute poem that appeared as the preface to a (*) posthumously published collection. [PWR]
  - The frontispiece of that collection may be based on a portrait of him owned by the Duke of Chandos.
  - A poem by this author claims that "Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May." For 10 points, name this author of the sonnet "Shall I Compare Thee to a Summer's Day." [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ben  Jonson [or Benjamin  Jonson ] (Jonson wrote  The Isle of Dogs with Thomas Nashe.)
  - This author recalled drinking a full cup of Communion wine after returning to the church in a set of conversations with William Drummond published as the Hawthornden Manuscripts . [PWR]
  - Joseph Rutter was among the followers of this author who followed his set of "Rules of Conviviality." This was the alphabetically prior of the two authors of the banned play The Isle of Dogs . [PWR]
  - This former bricklayer feuded with John Marston and Thomas (*) Dekker in the "War of the Theatres." This author, who killed Gabriel Spenser in a duel, included the conmen Subtle and Face in a play in which Sir Epicure Mammon desires the philosopher's stone. [PWR]
  - In another play by this author, the servant Mosca assists the title cunning Venetian gentleman.
  - For 10 points, name this English playwright of The Alchemist and Volpone . [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson] (The Induction quoted is from Every Man Out of His Humour.)
  - Charles Dickens revived one of this author's plays by acting the role of a hard-smoking braggart who is referred to as a "Pauls-man" because he spends his time loitering near the cathedral. [PWR]
  - This author described his character-writing philosophy in the "Induction" to a play that includes lines such as "Some one peculiar quality / Doth so possess a man, that it doth draw / All his affects ... / In their confluctions, all to run one way." This playwright popularized a genre in which characters have exaggerated obsessions corresponding to (*) premodern medical concepts, like Bobodil, the "frank" squire Downright, and the paranoid Kitely. [PWR]
  - A group of Dutch Anabaptists led by Ananias unknowingly buy goods from Mammon in a play by this author in which Lovewit leaves to avoid a plague, and Dol Common and Subtle help the butler Jeremy run scams as "Captain Face." For 10 points, name this English Renaissance playwright, the author of Every Man in His Humour and The Alchemist. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson [prompt on Sons of Ben or Tribe of Ben]
  - It's not Anne Bradstreet, but this poet complained that "I ne're attempted, Vulcan , 'gainst thy life; / Nor made least line of love to thy loose Wife" in a poem written after the burning of their house.
  - A group of poets inspired by this author had a marble slab with this author's "Rules of Conviviality" hanging over the mantelpiece.
  - In another poem, this author described a house "not built to envious show." That poem by this author created the model of the "Country House poem" and is titled "To Penshurst." This author also wrote a play where characters like Justice Overdo appear at the title event and another centering on a Venetian man tricking characters like Corvino and Voltore.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the plays Bartholomew Fair and Volpone. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson <DC>
  - Samuel Taylor Coleridge names Oedipus Tyrannus, Tom Jones, and one of this man's works as having the 'three most perfect plots ever planned.' In one play by this writer, Cutbeard and Otter refuse to give Morose grounds to end his marriage, before Dauphine reveals that the titular 'silent woman' is actually a boy.
  - In another play, Dapper meets the 'Queen of Fairy' after being gagged and shoved into a bathroom, but she is actually just Doll Common in disguise.
  - In that play by this author, Epicure Mammon seeks the philosopher's stone, and the title scammer, Subtle, flees Lovewit's house at the play's end.
  - For 10 points, name this Jacobean dramatist of Epicoene [EP-i-seen] and The Alchemist. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson
  - This author began a play by offering a legal contract requesting that the audience's criticism be proportional to their seat price. [PWR]
  - He created the "angry Boy" Kastril, who tries to get his sister to marry a Spanish count.
  - In a play by this author, a Justice of Peace disguises himself as a fool to investigate an event in which a puppet lifts its clothes to refute accusations of cross-dressing. [PWR]
  - This author mocked Puritans with characters like Tribulation, Ananias, and (*) Zeal-of-the-Land Busy. [PWR]
  - In another of his plays, Dapper is blindfolded and robbed before meeting the "Queen of Fairy," who is the prostitute Dol Common in disguise.
  - Epicure Mammon pays Subtle to create the philosopher's stone in that play by this author.
  - For 10 points, name this Jacobean playwright of Bartholomew Fair and The Alchemist. [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]
  - This poet asked "For what is life, if measured by the space / Not by the act?" in an unusual Pindaric ode alternating sections marked "The Turn," "The Counterturn," and "The Stand," celebrating the "immortal memory and friendship" of two of his best buds.
  - This poet wrote that "other edifices," when they see the title structure, "May say their lords have built, but thy lord dwells," at the end of his poem addressed to Philip Sidney's estate.
  - This author of the earliest major country house poem, "To (*) Penshurst," wrote a poem whose speaker notes that the "rosy wreath" he got back from his lover smells "Not of itself, but thee." This author wrote that "he was not for an age, but for all time!" in his poem "To the Memory of My Beloved, the Author Mr. [PWR]
  - William Shakespeare," which serves as the preface to the First Folio.
  - The Cavalier poets self-identified as the "Sons of" this author, whose best-known lyric opens: "Drink to me with only thine eyes." For 10 points, name this poet whose "Song: To Celia" appears in his play Volpone. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson
  - The speaker of a poem by this man describes a rose that "grows and smells" "not of itself" but of his lover, whose kiss he considers a fine substitute for wine.
  - Another poem by this man mourns a child "lent to [him]" for "seven years" whom he regards as "his best piece of poetry," and is entitled "On My First Son." At the end of one of this author's plays, a villainous servant is forced to become a galley slave, and the forced retirement of an old gentleman results in property inheritance for Bonario, the son of Corbaccio.
  - This author of "Song to Celia" and creator of Mosca also wrote a play in Epicure Mammon is convinced that Jeremy and Subtle have the philosopher's stone.
  - For 10 points, name this British poet and playwright of Volpone and The Alchemist. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson
  - A poem by this author includes the lines "A lily of a day, Is fairer far in May" and states that man is not made better by "growing like a tree / In bulk." He told himself to sing "Safe from the wolf's black jaw and the dull ass's hoof" in "An Ode to Himself." In another poem, this author wrote that "All Parnasus' green did wither" and "Pegasus did fly away" after the invention of "the rack of finest wits." The speaker of one of his poems tells a woman that he sent her "a rosy wreath" that "smells, I swear, / Not of itself, but thee." He wrote "He was not of an age, but for all time!" in an elegy for another poet.
  - This author of "A Fit of Rhyme against Rhyme" addressed "thou child of my right hand" in one poem and asked "Drink to me only with thine eyes" in another.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "On My First Son" and "To Celia." [GIVE]

[T10] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson
  - One of his poems ironically says "He that first invented thee, may his joints tormented be" in reference to the title concept.
  - Another of his poems calls his son, who died at the age of seven, his "best piece of poetry." That first poem is a satirical work which inveighs against rhymed poetry but is itself rhymed.
  - He wrote a poem which praises a house even though it is not "built to envious show of touch or marble, nor can boast a row of polished pillars, or a roof of gold." That poem, which was influenced by Horace and itself influenced many later country house poems, is "To Penshurst." This author of "A Fit of Rhyme Against Rhyme" and "On My First Sonne" is better known for a poem which tells the addressee to "leave a kiss but in the cup and I'll not look for wine" after telling her to "drink to me only with thine eyes." For 10 points, name this poet of "To Celia." [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ben Jonson
  - Dryden's Essay on Dramatic Poesy features an extended analysis of one of this man's plays that sees a long and Latin-filled argument in a courtroom while a central figure is beset by the chirping "Collegiate Ladies." The knights John Daw and Amorous La-Foole are repeatedly abused in that work, in which Dauphine's uncle Morose marries a man disguised as the titular (*) "Silent Woman." The undercover Adam Overdo discovers his wife being pimped out in another of this author's plays, that ends after puppets win a debate with the puritan Zeal-of-the-Land Busy at the titular event. [PWR]
  - This author of Epicoene created characters like Epicure Mammon and Abel Drugger in his best known work, which centers on a con run by Subtle and Jeremy.
  - For 10 points, name this dramatist of Bartholomew Fair who also wrote Volpone and The Alchemist. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The daughters of the river Niger are instructed to travel to Britannia in a work in this genre titled The [this genre] of Blackness written for Anne of Denmark. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: masques):
    Name these works that served as courtly entertainments involving elaborate sets and costumes.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    The Masque of Blackness was written by this prolific Jacobean playwright of many masques and the plays Bartholomew Fair and Volpone.
  Part 3 (ans: Busirane [or Busyrane]):
    In The Faerie Queene, the Masque of Cupid takes place in this character's house, where doorways are inscribed with the words "Be bold" except for one inscribed with "Be not too bold." Britomart rescues Amoret from this wizard.

[B2] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet used the phrase "Northern Dedications" to mock his rival's flattery of the Duke of Newcastle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Dryden):
    Name this poet of the satirical poem Mac Flecknoe, which sees his real-life contemporary Thomas Shadwell become the new ruler of the "realms of Non-sense." This author was the first Poet Laureate of England.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson] (The poem is "Song: To Celia.")):
    Dryden and Shadwell disagreed over the genius of this author, who wrote a love song that asks the title woman to "leave a kiss but in the cup / And I'll not look for wine."
  Part 3 (ans: Absalom and Achitophel):
    Dryden also wrote this poem in which the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury are satirized as the two title Biblical figures rebelling against David.

[B3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of this author's poems bids a recurring character to "let us prove, / While we can, the sports of love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Name this author of that song addressed to Celia. His plays include Volpone and The Alchemist.
  Part 2 (ans: "Drink to me only with thine eyes"):
    A different Jonson poem titled "To Celia" opens with these words, followed by the phrase "only with thine eyes."
  Part 3 (ans: Thomas Carew ("carey") (The latter poem is "A Rapture.")):
    This other English poet asked a woman named Celia to "kiss" and "be kind!" in his poem "Love's Courtship." Another poem by him begins "I will enjoy thee now, my Celia, come, / And fly with me to Love's Elysium."

[B4] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A book by J. Thomas Looney claims that Hamlet's noble breeding and "mask of eccentricity" make him a likely stand-in for this author. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward de Vere ("VEER"), 17th Earl of Oxford):
    Name this Earl of Oxford and contemporary of Shakespeare. Despite being praised for his comedies in The Art of English Poesie, none of this author's plays survive.
  Part 2 (ans: Macbeth [or The Tragedy of Macbeth]):
    de Vere is often cited as the true author of Shakespeare's plays, but many scholars argue that this play about a murderous Scottish thane was written after de Vere's 1604 death.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Another piece of evidence in favor of Shakespeare's authorship is this other writer's eulogy for the Bard in the First Folio, which calls him "not of an age, but for all time." This author's other elegies include "On My First Sonne."

[B5] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In an allegorical play with this title, society cycles through peace, plenty, pride, envy, war, and poverty, and the poet Posthaste forms an acting company called Sir Oliver Owlet's Men. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Histriomastix [accept Histriomastix: The Player's Scourge, or Actor's Tragedy or Histriomastix, or, The Player Whipped]):
    Give this title of a play attributed to John Marston subtitled The Player Whipped. William Prynne's 1632 text with this title attacked theater as impious and landed him in prison for sedition.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]):
    In Histriomastix, Marston uses the pedantic character Chrisoganus to satirize this opponent of his in the War of the Theatres. This man parodied Marston in Cynthia's Revels before writing Volpone.
  Part 3 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus] (The poem is "An Horatian Ode Upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland" by Andrew Marvell.)):
    Thomas Dekker's Satiromastix lampoons Jonson as this writer. A poem in the manner of this poet describes a general who "could not cease / In the inglorious arts of peace."

[B6] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of this play's subplots, the traveler Peregrine listens to Sir Politic Would-be's get-rich-quick scheme to sell a European city to the Ottoman Empire. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Volpone ("vohl-POH-nay")):
    Name this play in which Peregrine and Politic listen to a flowery speech in which a mountebank doctor tries to sell a vial of medicinal oil for eight crowns.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    This playwright of the Jacobean Era wrote the satirical plays Volpone and The Alchemist.
  Part 3 (ans: tortoise [or turtle]):
    In the fifth act of Volpone, Peregrine humiliates Politic with a prank in which Politic is duped into acting like this animal while hiding in a wine butt from some merchants who supposedly want to turn Politic over to the Venetian government for treason.

[B7] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: During an event in this play, Tom Quarlous impersonates another man and steals a marriage license. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Bartholomew Fair):
    Name this play in which puppets lift up their clothes to reveal they have no genitals, refuting the Puritan Reverend Overdo's accusations of cross-dressing.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]):
    Bartholomew Fair is a play by this English author, who also wrote a play about the Sly Fox Volpone.
  Part 3 (ans: A Tale of a Tub):
    The last Jonson play performed during his life had this title. A Jonathan Swift satire with this title uses the three brothers Peter, Martin, and Jack to allegorize the three primary branches of Western Christianity.

[B8] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literary women named Celia, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]):
    This author asks the title woman to "drink to me only with thine eyes" in his poem "To Celia." The disguised title character attempts to rape Corvino's wife Celia in this author's play Volpone.
  Part 2 (ans: Dorothea Brooke [or Dorothea Brooke] (from George Eliot's novel Middlemarch)):
    In a novel, this woman takes pleasure in giving up jewelry to her flightier sister Celia. Celia marries James Chettam after this woman rejects him and instead marries the dour author of The Key to All Mythologies.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Lady's Dressing Room"):
    George Eliot may have taken Celia Brooke's name from a character in this Jonathan Swift poem, whose misogyny was parodied by Lady Mary Montagu. In this poem, Strephon is shocked that "Celia, Celia, Celia shits!"

[B9] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright escalated the "War of the Theatres" by satirizing both John Marston and Thomas Dekker in his play Cynthia's Revels. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Name this playwright who created the clown Clove, who speaks "fustian" to mock Marston's style. In a play by this author, Winwife tries to win the hand of Dame Purecraft.
  Part 2 (ans: Julius Caesar):
    Clove appears in Every Man Out of His Humour, which has allusions to this Shakespeare play that date it to 1599. Carlo Buffone's cry of "Et tu, Brute!" quotes this play's title character.
  Part 3 (ans: Satiromastix):
    Thomas Dekker continued the "War of the Theatres" by portraying Jonson as an egotistical Roman poet named Horace in this play. This play is subtitled "The Untrussing of the Humorous Poet."

[B10] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: An epitaph for this writer tells the reader to "ask his story," which will "speak" what his tombstone "can't tell / of his glory." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Jonson [accept Saint Ben; accept "Upon Ben Jonson"; accept "His Prayer to Ben Jonson"]):
    Name this English Renaissance poet who presided over the Apollo Club, a gathering place for a group of writers he influenced who were called his "tribe" or his "sons."
  Part 2 (ans: Robert Herrick):
    Ben Jonson was the subject of several poems by this Cavalier poet. He instructed the title figures to "gather ye rose-buds while ye may" in "To the Virgins, To Make Much of Time"
  Part 3 (ans: "On My First Son"):
    In this short lyric, Ben Jonson writes that all his vows are "such / as what he loves may never like too much," and calls the title character "his best piece of poetry."

[B11] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This three-part poem includes a fable about the Swallows, who are convinced to hibernate instead of migrating. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Hind and the Panther"):
    Name this allegorical poem that introduces different religious denominations in its first part. This poem references James II as a lion who protects a "milk white" creature "immortal and unchanged."
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This Restoration-era writer of "The Hind and the Panther" also satirized the Earl of Shaftesbury and Duke of Monmouth's claim to power in the poem "Absalom and Achitophel."
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    In the mock-epic Mac Flecknoe, Dryden aired out a dispute with Thomas Shadwell over "their different estimates of the genius of" this writer. He wrote the poem "To Celia" and the plays Volpone and The Alchemist.

[B12] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker reminds a character with this name that she had "liv'd unknown" after telling her "Twas I that gave thee thy renown" in the poem "Ingrateful Beauty Threatened." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Celia):
    Thomas Carew (CARE-EE) wrote about a woman with what name whom he asks to "fly with me to Love's Elysium" in his poem "A Rapture?" Another woman of this name is asked to "leave a kiss" and that the speaker will "not look for wine."
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]):
    A poem addressing a woman named Celia by this author asks her to "drink to me only with thine eyes." This author is better known for his play Volpone.
  Part 3 (ans: rosy wreath [accept descriptions like a "bouquet of roses"; prompt on flowers]):
    Description Acceptable. In the second stanza of Jonson's "To Celia", the speaker recounts how he sent her one of these, "But thou thereon did'st only breathe, And sent'st it back to me." The poem ends with the speaker expressing joy that it now smells like her.

[B13] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote A Crown of Sonnets, a collection in which the last line of each sonnet is the first line of the next. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mary Wroth):
    Name this author of The Countess of Montgomery's Urania, who wrote sonnets from one of its protagonists to the unfaithful other one in Pamphilia to Amphilanthus.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Sidney):
    This uncle of Mary Wroth wrote about a Muse who tells him "Fool... look in thy heart, and write" in Astrophel and Stella. He described a woman as chaste as Venus and mild as Juno in "What Length of Verse?"
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    This author apostrophized "Thou art not built to envious show" to the Sidney family's country house in "To Penshurst." He wrote Volpone and Bartholomew Fair.

[B14] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, Face and Subtle insult a Spaniard because they think he doesn't speak English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Alchemist):
    Name this play that ends with Face begging the audience for their forgiveness.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    The Alchemist was written by this British dramatist of Epicene, who was probably a collaborator on some of Shakespeare's plays.
  Part 3 (ans: Mosca):
    In Jonson's Volpone, the title character is often accompanied by this character, described as a "parasite," whose name comes the Italian word for "fly."

[B15] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: By a conservative estimate, one-fifth of all deaths in early modern England was due to infectious disease. Sometimes people wrote about this. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Benjamin "Ben" Jonson):
    This English poet of "To Penshurst" wrote "On My First Daughter" and "On My First Sonne" after his daughter and son died in different plague outbreaks.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Dekker):
    Though better known for such plays as The Roaring Girl and Westward Ho (co-written with John Webster), this man made good money producing plague pamphlets like The Seven Deadly Sins of London.
  Part 3 (ans: Daniel Defoe):
    *NOTE TO MODERATOR: please emphasize the word "Foe" in the following question* It is disputed whether this man's A Journal of the Plague Year should be considered a novel or not; his sources likely included the actual plague journals of his uncle, Henry Foe.

[B16] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the satirical poem "Mac Flecknoe," for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Thomas Shadwell):
    The poem mocks this man, who is referred to as "the True Blue Protestant Poet" in the full title, and as "the last great prophet of tautology" in the satire.
  Part 2 (ans: John Dryden):
    This author of "Mac Flecknoe" reworked the story of Antony and Cleopatra in the play All for Love.
  Part 3 (ans: Benjamin "Ben" Jonson):
    Part of the reason Dryden and Shadwell disagreed was because Shadwell fancied himself an heir to this other English author, whose comedic plays included Volpone and The Alchemist.

[B17] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a work by this author, the emperor Domitian uses a real blade, and not a play sword, to stab Paris while performing in a play-within-a-play called The False Servant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Massinger):
    Name this English playwright who wrote The Roman Actor. In his best-known play, the servant Marrall alters some legal documents to help Frank Wellborn bring down Sir Giles Overreach.
  Part 2 (ans: King's Men [accept Lord Chamberlain's Men]):
    Massinger collaborated with John Fletcher on a number of plays, including The Sea Voyage and The False One, for this acting company. William Shakespeare worked with this company for much of his life.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]):
    Massinger's other collaborations include Rollo Duke of Normandy, which he coauthored with Fletcher, George Chapman, and this playwright behind Bartholomew Fair and The Alchemist.

[B18] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Most of John Webster's collaborations with other playwrights were works in this genre such as Anything for a Quiet Life and A Cure for a Cuckold. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: city comedy [prompt on comedy]):
    Name this bitingly satirical genre of Renaissance drama. Thomas Middleton's prolific output in this genre includes A Chaste Maid in Cheapside, the Thomas Dekker collaboration The Roaring Girl, and A Mad World, My Masters.
  Part 2 (ans: comedy of humours):
    This earlier genre of Renaissance comedy relies on broadly drawn characters exemplifying certain stock personality types, as indicated by the title of a seminal play in this genre about Knowell and his servant Brainworm.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Every Man in His Humour was written by this comic playwright of Bartholomew Fair who created the con artists Face and Subtle.

[B19] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one play by this author, the title Venetian nobleman tries to rape Celia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben (jamin) Jonson):
    Name this English playwright who wrote Volpone and a play in which the title character Subtle turns Sir Epicure Mammon's goods into gold, The Alchemist.
  Part 2 (ans: Every Man in His Humour):
    In this play by Jonson, Old Knowell receives a letter signed by Wellbred intended for his son Edward. This play's characters include the braggart captain Bobadil, and a mischievous servant named Brainworm.
  Part 3 (ans: George Chapman):
    Jonson collaborated on Eastward Ho with John Marston and this playwright of Bussy D'Ambois. He inspired a poem that begins "Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold/ And many goodly states and kingdoms seen."

[B20] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A devil named Pug appears in this author's play The Devil is an Ass. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Name this English playwright who also wrote Volpone and The Alchemist.
  Part 2 (ans: Jacobean era):
    Many of Ben Jonson's later works were written during this era of English culture, whose other prominent playwrights include John Fletcher and Thomas Middleton. It was followed by the Caroline era.
  Part 3 (ans: A Chaste Maid in Cheapside):
    Thomas Middleton wrote this "city comedy" which centers on the house servant Moll Yellowhammer, who is betrothed to to the heavily indebted knight Walter Whorehound.

[B21] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character claims that the "highest female grace is silence" while Lady Would-Be speaks to him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Volpone):
    Name this wealthy Venetian who pretends to be mortally ill with the help of his servant Mosca.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Volpone was created by this Elizabethan playwright also known for The Alchemist and Bartholomew Fair.
  Part 3 (ans: a hermaphrodite [or Androgyno]):
    Volpone is also served by a dwarf, a eunuch, and a person of this type. This person is said to be a reincarnation of Pythagoras and a mule, among other things.

[B22] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Theater directors have a lot of fun staging the explosion in Act IV, Scene V of this play. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Alchemist):
    Name this comedy whose cast of "gulls" includes the Anabaptists Ananias and Tribulation Wholesome, as well as the wildly popular tobacconist Abel Drugger.
  Part 2 (ans: S: Benjamin Jonson):
    The Alchemist was written by this English playwright who also produced Volpone.
  Part 3 (ans: Blackfriars Theatre):
    The main setting of The Alchemist, Lovewit's house, was modeled after this building, a playhouse located in a former priory where the play was first staged by the King's Men in 1610.

[B23] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This play experienced a revival in the 1840s, afer Charles Dickens got together with a few of his friends and staged it, choosing the role of Bobadill for himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Every Man in His Humour):
    Name this play, which ends with Justice Clement sentencing Bobadill and Matthew to a penitent fast, and the merchant Kitely being rebuked for his fears that visitors to his home are sleeping with his wife.
  Part 2 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    This playwright wrote about the servant Brainworm's nominal attempts to spy on Kno'well's son in Every Man in His Humour, and drew on the beast fable and city comedy genres for his play Volpone.
  Part 3 (ans: George Chapman Extra Bonus):
    Every Man in His Humour and this playwright's An Humourous Day's Mirth are the foremost English examples of the "humours comedy" genre. He collaborated with Jonson and John Marston on the play Eastward Ho.

[B24] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: He wrote "Farewell, thou child of my right hand, and joy; my sin was too much hope of thee, lov'd boy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ben Jonson):
    Identify this English poet of "On My First Son," also known for saying "I loved the man, and do honour his memory on this side idolatry as much as any" when referring to Shakespeare in his book Timber.
  Part 2 (ans: Celia):
    Jonson also wrote lyrics such as "Drink to me only with thine eyes" in a group of poems addressed to this woman.
  Part 3 (ans: Richard Lovelace):
    One of the so-called "Tribe of Ben" poets was this Cavalier poet that wrote "Stone Walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage" in "To Althea, From Prison."

[B25] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer some questions about the Renaissance genre of "city comedy".
  Part 1 (ans: Ben (jamin) Jonson):
    This English playwright's Volpone and Epicoene are often classified as city comedies.
  Part 2 (ans: Every Man in His Humour):
    One of the earliest city comedies is this other Ben Jonson play, in which Knowell sends Brainworm to spy on Edward's activities in London. Its sequel was less successful.
  Part 3 (ans: A Chaste Maid in Cheapside):
    Moll Yellowhammer is the title character of this Thomas Middleton city comedy, in which she escapes her betrothal to Sir Walter Whorehound in order to marry Touchwood Junior.
