=== STOCK CLUES: Larkin ===
Tossup questions: 21 found, 49 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 27 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin] (The unnamed poems are "Faith Healing," "Wild Oats" and "An Arundel Tomb.")
  - This poet described an "immense slackening ache" experienced by visitors to a man who directs "God about this eye, that knee." In a different poem by this author, the speaker is eventually told he is "too selfish, withdrawn, / And easily bored to love." This poet described death as "The anaesthetic from which none come round" in a poem parodying a medieval French form.
  - Another of this man's poems considers that "succeeding eyes [began] / To look, not read" at a (*) tomb effigy in Chichester Cathedral.
  - That poem by this writer concludes with an "almost-instinct almost truth." This poet of "Aubade" wrote a poem describing how "man hands on misery to man," and advising the reader to not "have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this librarian and poet, who wrote "This Be the Verse." [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip (Arthur) Larkin (The second poem is "The Mower")
  - A poem by this author describes the upcoming springtime as "Earth's immeasurable surprise" and begins by describing "Lambs that learn to walk in snow" who "Meet a vast unwelcome." This author wrote, "The first day after a death, the new Absence / Is always the same" in a poem that ends "we should be kind / While there is still time," about the accidental killing of a hedgehog. [PWR]
  - This author explained the meaning of his poem "First (*) Sight" in one of thousands of letters to his lover Monica Jones. [PWR]
  - He wrote a collection whose title poem is about a "three-quarters-empty train" ride during which the speaker observes a series of loud bridal parties.
  - For 10 points, name this British author of "The Whitsun Weddings" whose poem "This Be the Verse" begins "They f*ck you up, your mum and dad." [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin (The unnamed poem about the tomb is "An Arundel Tomb.")
  - Regarding the title structures, the speaker of a poem by this author wonders, "Shall we avoid them as unlucky places?" The speaker of a poem by this author remarks, "Snow fell, undated" before declaring, "Time has transfigured them into Untruth." This author loudly says "Here endeth" in a poem about "A serious house on serious earth." This author used a line from Robert Louis Stevenson's poem "Requiem" to title a poem about people who (*) "half the time were soppy-stern" or "at one another's throats." This poet wrote "What will survive of us is love" to end a poem about a tomb for an "earl and countess." This author of "Church Going" advises, "Don't have any kids yourself" while warning about "your mum and dad." For 10 points, name this English poet of "This Be The Verse." [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin] (The first two poems are "An Arundel Tomb" and "High Windows.")
  - This poet's visit to Chichester with Monica Jones inspired a poem whose title object carries "a faint hint of the absurd" coupled with a "plainness of the pre-Baroque." This poet described "the deep blue air that shows nothing, and is nowhere, and is endless" in a poem that imagines "everyone young going down the long slide." This author noted, "time has transfigured them into untruth," in a poem about an (*) "earl and countess" who "lie in stone" that concludes "what will survive of us is love." This poet's collection High Windows includes a poem describing a misery that "deepens like a coastal shelf." That poem by this author ends by urging "don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote, "They fuck you up, your mum and dad," in "This Be The Verse." [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]
  - A poem by this author explains why the title concept "never worked for me" with reasons like "wrong rewards / And arrogant eternity." This author wrote that "Time has transfigured them into / Untruth" in a poem describing two figures "side by side, their faces blurred" that display "such faithfulness in effigy." This author of "Love Again" concluded in another poem that "what will survive of us is love." In a poem, this author uses the actions of "fools in old-style hats and coats" to demonstrate the claim that "man hands on misery to man." That poem by this author of "An Arundel Tomb" advises to "get out as early as you can, / And don't have any kids yourself" because "They fuck you up, your mum and dad." For 10 points, name this British poet of "This Be The Verse." [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - This author wrote a poem inspired by Ruben Dario that opens with the speaker making a gin-and-tonic titled "Sympathy in White Major." This author wrote another poem describing a funeral procession, which ends with the narrator hearing a voice "singing of Kitty, or Katy, as if the name meant once, all love, all beauty." The speaker of a poem by this author declares "oh hell, only the young can be alone freely" after receiving an invitation to a "crowd of craps" from a man named (*) Warlock-Williams. [PWR]
  - A poem by this author describes "everyone young going down the long slide to happiness, endlessly." In addition to writing "Dublinesque" and "Vers de Societe" , this poet wrote a poem whose speaker declares "I know this is paradise" when "I see a couple of kids and guess he's fucking her and she's taking pills or wearing a diaphragm." For 10 points, name this poet whose collection High Windows includes a poem that declares "they fuck you up, your mum and dad." [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]
  - This author wrote about how a "one-hired box should make him pretty sure / He warranted better, I don't know" in a poem about the death of a boarding-house lodger.
  - This poet included "Mr.
  - Bleaney" in a collection titled for a poem that describes "girls in parodies of fashion" and claims that fifty minutes is just enough time "to settle hats and say I nearly died" during a trip in a "three-quarters empty train." Another poem by this author describes "fools in old-style hats and coats" who are "at one another's throats." That poem by this author advises the reader to "get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself," and opens with the line "They fuck you up, your mum and dad." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Whitsun Weddings" and "This Be the Verse." [GIVE]

[T8] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - The speaker of a poem by this author wonders if "Anyone looked at me, forty years back / And thought, That'll be the life" and eventually contemplates how the "deep blue air" is "nowhere, and is endless." In another poem by this author, the speaker donates an "Irish sixpence" and comments how "dubious women to make their children touch a particular stone." In another poem by this author about a funerary structure, the speaker describes two figures in a (*) "supine stationary voyage" who prove "What will survive of us is love." This poet of "An Arundel Tomb" wrote about "a serious house on serious earth" in a poem about a title building where the speaker is "sure there is nothing going on." For 10 points, what poet of "Church Going" wrote about how "they fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This be the Verse?" [PWR,GIVE]

[T9] 2018 RAPTURE (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]
  - This author imagined people "moustached in flowered frocks" gathered to watch a man with "deep American voice" attempt some miraculous cures.
  - This author wondered, "what remains when disbelief has gone?" after donating an Irish sixpence and reading the words "Here endeth" too loudly.
  - This author, who called religion a "vast moth-eaten musical (*) brocade," wrote about "sweating in the dark about hell ... having to hide what you think of the priest" while other people "go down the long slide like free bloody birds." A notoriously profane poem by this author ends by instructing the reader to "get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this cynical English poet who wrote "Faith Healing," "Church Going," "High Windows," and "This Be The Verse" A [GIVE]

[T10] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - This poet described a number of "courting-places / That are still courting-places / (But the lovers are all in school)" in a poem that describes how "young mothers assemble / At swing and sandpit / Setting free their children." A poem by this author wonders if older generations thought of his as "free bloody birds" before thinking about seeing "everyone young going down the long slide / To happiness, endlessly." This author of "Afternoons" wrote that "Not till about / (*) One-twenty on the sunlit Saturday / Did my three-quarters empty train pull out" in a poem describing him passing noisy bridal parties.
  - This author of "Church Going" also wrote the line "Man hands misery onto man" in a poem advising "don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this author of "The Whitsun Weddings" who wrote "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This Be the Verse." [GIVE]

[T11] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Larkin
  - The patriarch of a family with this surname kisses a woman after she agrees to participate in a donkey race at the local gymkhana celebration, and he tries to buy a house from George Bluff-Gore by getting him drunk on My Darling cocktails. [PWR]
  - Mariette, a woman with this surname, romances the tax inspector Cedric Charlton in a novel by H.E. [PWR]
  - Bates. [PWR]
  - A poet with this surname asked if "superstition, like belief, must die, / And what remains when disbelief has gone?" Catherine Zeta-Jones's breakout role was as a person with this surname on the tv adaptation of (*)The Darling Buds of May .
  - It is the last name of a man who described putting a sixpence in a donation box in his poem "Church Going." For 10 points, identify the surname of the poet who said "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his poem "This Be The Verse." [GIVE]

[T12] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - The speaker of a poem by this author imagines "looking out to see the moon thinned to an air-sharped blade" and muses that "all solitude is selfish" after receiving a dinner invitation from a man named Warlock-Williams.
  - In another of this author's poems, the speaker describes seeing "girls in parodies of fashion, heels and veils" while he is riding a "three-quarters-empty train".
  - This poet wrote about "the deep blue air, that shows nothing, and is nowhere, and is endless", and another of his poems advises the reader to "get out as early as you can and don't have any kids yourself".
  - For 10 points, name this 20th-century British poet of "Vers de Societe" (VAIR duh so-see-ay-TAY), "The Whitsun Weddings", "High Windows", and "This Be The Verse". [GIVE]

[T13] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - The speaker of a poem by this man claims "Death is no different whined at than withstood" after describing "Waking at four to soundless dark." In another poem, this man described "A serious house on serious earth," where the speaker donates an Irish sixpence and recalls proclaiming "Here endeth" too loudly at a lectern. [PWR]
  - This man described people led astray by "fools in old-style hats and coats" in a poem that claims (*) "Man hands on misery to man." A poem by this author of "Aubade" ends with the speaker admonishing "Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this English poet of "Church Going" who wrote "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This Be The Verse." [PWR,GIVE]

[T14] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - The speaker of a poem by this man bemoans the idea of "someone else drowned in that lash-wide stare" and blames his problems on "something to do with violence, / a long way back, and wrong rewards, / and arrogant eternity." The speaker of another poem by this man experiences a "sharp tender shock" upon seeing a stone earl's hand still clasping his wife's, as "such faithfulness in effigy / was just a detail friends would see." This author of "Love Again" and "An Arundel Tomb" described death as "nothing to think with / nothing to love or link with / the anesthetic from which none come round." For 10 points, name this 20th-century British poet of "Aubade," who acknowledged that "your mum and dad" "were fucked up in their turn" in "This Be the Verse." [GIVE]

[T15] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - In one poem by this author, a question "brings the priest and the doctor / in their long coats / running over the fields." This author wrote that "the women shared the secret like a happy funeral" and described a "sense of falling, like an arrow-shower sent out of sight" in one poem.
  - In one of his poems, "such plainness of the pre-baroque hardly involves the eye," while another states that (*) "man hands on misery to man." This poet, who described travelling on a "three-quarters-empty train" and watching celebrations at the stations in one poem ended another by stating "What will survive of us is love." One poem of this author warns that "they fill you with the faults they had / And add some extra, just for you." For 10 points, name this poet of "Whitsun Weddings" and "An Arundel Tomb" who wrote "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This Be The Verse." [GIVE]

[T16] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - In a poem by this author, the speaker talks of a "shape less recognizable each week" which serves "a purpose more obscure." In that poem, the speaker wonders what will happen when the title establishments "fall completely out of use" and asks, "what we shall turn them into." The speaker of another of this author's poems describes a time when "ever life became / a brilliant breaking of the bank"; a time he described as being "Between the end of the (*) "Chatterley" ban / And the Beatles' first LP." The speaker of a third poem by him advises the subjects of that poem: "don't have any kids yourself" and begins "They fuck you up, your mum and dad". [PWR]
  - For 10 points identify this poet of "Church Going", "Annus Mirabilis", and "This Be the Verse". [GIVE]

[T17] 2014 MGMT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - One work by this poet discusses a "unique distance from isolation" and calls the title action "[a]n emblem of two people being honest".
  - The speaker of another poem by this man wonders whether "dubious women" who "make their children touch a particular stone" will visit the title place, which "held unsplit/So long and equably what since is found/Only in separation".
  - This poet of "Talking in Bed" and "Church Going" wrote about "everyone young going down the long slide/To happiness, endlessly" in one poem, and another of his poems begins, "Groping back to bed after a piss/I part thick curtains." This poet also wrote about "fools in old-style hats and coats" in a work that ends with the advice, "Get out as early as you can/And don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this poet of "High Windows", "Sad Steps", and "This Be the Verse". [GIVE]

[T18] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - In this author's first novel, John Kemp creates the title imaginary woman in order to help with his transition to Oxford from Huddlesford.
  - This author of Jill wrote a poem whose speaker smells a fish market on a train ride during which he also sees "fathers with broad belts" and "mothers loud and fat" celebrating the title events. [PWR]
  - Another of his poems discusses a stone monument that concludes "what will survive of us is love." Another poem by this author of (*) "Whitsun Weddings" and "An Arundel Tomb" closes with the charming lines "Get out as early as you can, And don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this British poet who famously stated "they fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his "This Be the Verse." [PWR,GIVE]

[T19] 2013 Schindler's Lit (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - The viewer of the title object of one of his poems feels a "sharp tender shock" after seeing two figures "side by side, their faces blurred;" that poem concludes "What will ($) survive of us is love." The speaker of another of his poems claims "Postmen like doctors go from house to house" after beginning "I work all day, and get (*) half-drunk at night." Because "Man hands on misery to man," one of this author's poems advises "Get out as early as you can / And don't have any kids yourself." For ten points, identify this British author of "Aubade" and "An Arundel Tomb," whose "This Be The Verse" contains the memorable line, "They fuck you up, your mum and dad." [PWR,GIVE]

[T20] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - This poet asked, "Can't I use my wit as a pitchfork to drive the brute off?" in a poem depicting middle-class work as the title creature.
  - In another poem, he described "a shape less recognizable each week, a purpose more obscure," noting, "I take off my cycle-clips in awkward reverence" upon entering the title location.
  - This poet of "Toads" described "everyone young going down the long slide to happiness, endlessly," in a poem that begins by imagining a girl "taking pills or wearing a diaphragm." His most famous poem concludes by advising, "Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this gloomy British poet of "Church Going," "High Windows," and "This Be the Verse." [GIVE]

[T21] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Philip Larkin
  - The speaker of one of this author's poems looks down at the cobblestones of an empty hotel yard and thinks "Featureless morning, featureless night." Another of this author's poems describes a voice "singing of Kitty, or Katy, as if the name meant once, all love, all beauty" during a funeral procession.
  - This author of "Waiting for breakfast, while she brushed her hair" and "Dublinesque" imagined "Bonds and gestures pushed to one side / Like an old combine harvester" in a poem whose speaker guesses that a girl is "Taking pills, or wearing a diaphragm" and declares "I know this is paradise." In addition to "High Windows," he wrote a poem advising "Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this British poet who wrote "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his poem "This be the Verse." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Do not read to Brown A. In a poem by this author, the speaker experiences "A sense of falling, like an arrow-shower / Sent out of sight, somewhere becoming rain." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    Name this English author of "The Whitsun Weddings." This author famously began his poem "This Be The Verse" with the line "They fuck you up, your mum and dad."
  Part 2 (ans: church [accept cathedral; prompt on tomb by asking "what larger place is the tomb located in?"]):
    In a poem from The Whitsun Weddings, "endless altered people" come to see an object in one of these places. A Larkin poem set in this place reflects it "was not worth stopping for" and asks, "Shall we avoid them as unlucky places?"
  Part 3 (ans: here [accept "Here endeth"]):
    In "Church Going," the speaker reads a phrase beginning with this word "much more loudly than I'd meant." In a Larkin poem titled for this word, it is called an "unfettered existence: Facing the sun, untalkative, out of reach."

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet born in this present-day country detailed his country's founding in the first section of his poem "Inside Us the Dead." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samoa [or Independent State of Samoa or Malo Sa'oloto Tuto'atasi o Somoa; accept Western Samoa; reject "American Samoa"]):
    Name this birth country of Albert Wendt. A tombstone for Robert Louis Stevenson, who died in this country, is inscribed with a poem claiming "This be the verse you grave for me/Here he lies where he longed to be."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    The poem on Robert Louis Stevenson's tombstone was the source of the title of this British poet's poem "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: Rupert Brooke [or Rupert Chawner Brooke]):
    This other British poet visited Stevenson's house in Samoa before going off to fight in World War I. This poet of "Tiare Tahiti" wrote "there's some corner of a foreign field/that is for ever England" in "The Soldier."

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet was a major influence for authors of the British Poetry Revival in the '60s and '70s, a loosely defined movement of modernist poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Basil Bunting [or Basil Cheesman Bunting]):
    Name this poet who used the line "Brag, sweet tenor bull" to begin his long poem Briggflatts.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    The British Poetry Revival is often seen as a reaction to The Movement, a group of anti-modernist authors that includes this British poet of The Whitsun Weddings and "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: Black Mountain poets [accept Black Mountain College]):
    The British Poetry Revival was also influenced by the poetry of Charles Olson, a pioneer of "projective verse" who was part of this group of poets. Robert Creeley is associated with this group centered at a North Carolina college.

[B4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a book-length essay, this author says that he bars Jeremy Clarkson from the house and needs the title place because it is perhaps the only area where Top Gear is not on TV. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Geoff Dyer):
    Name this author of Zona: A Book About a Film About a Journey to a Room, which presents a scene-by-scene analysis of Andrei Tarkovsky's Stalker. He also wrote But Beautiful: A Book About Jazz.
  Part 2 (ans: D. H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence]):
    In Out of Sheer Rage, Dyer details his struggles to produce a book about this author, who wrote about the Brangwen sisters in The Rainbow and Women in Love.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin] (The poem is "Annus Mirabilis.")):
    Out of Sheer Rage repeatedly cites this admirer of D. H. Lawrence, who even owned a Lawrence mug. He wrote of how "every life became / a brilliant breaking of the bank" after "the end of the Chatterley ban."

[B5] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote a satirical "All-Purpose Poem for State Occasions" and often used the voice of the fictional poet Jason Strugnell. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wendy Cope):
    Name this contemporary English poet, whose collections include Making Cocoa for Kingsley Amis.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin [Philip Arthur Larkin] [The poem is An Arundel Tomb.]):
    Cope's poem "Mr. Strugnell" parodies "Mr. Bleaney", a poem by this author. Another poem by this author concludes by meditating on "our almost-instinct" that "what will survive of us is love."
  Part 3 (ans: T. S. Eliot [Thomas Stearns Eliot]):
    Making Cocoa for Kingsley Amis includes several parodies of this poet, such as commenting that "In April one seldom feels cheerful" in the "Waste Land Limericks."

[B6] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's posthumous reputation suffered in 1992, after Anthony Thwaite published an edition of their collected letters replete with casual racism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    Name this University of Hull librarian who wrote "they fuck you up, your mum and dad" and "they fill you with the faults they had" in "This Be The Verse."
  Part 2 (ans: do and you [or turn and soppy-stern; or coats and throats; or man and can; or shelf and yourself; accept any of these pairs in either order]):
    Two answers required. Besides "dad" and "had," Larkin's "This Be The Verse" contains five rhyming pairs. Give both words in any one of those pairs.
  Part 3 (ans: a church [accept "Church Going"]):
    The popular image of Larkin with cycle-clips comes from a poem about visiting an empty one of these buildings. The speaker of that poem reflects "the place was not worth stopping for/ yet stop I did: in fact I often do."

[B7] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet described the "almost-instinct" that "what will survive of us is love" in his poem "An Arundel Tomb." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Larkin [Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    Name this British author who used obscenities in poems such as "This Be The Verse."
  Part 2 (ans: "High Windows"):
    This Larkin poem, which invokes the sexual revolution with its description of a young woman who is "taking pills or wearing a diaphragm," ends by describing the "deep blue air, that shows / Nothing, and is nowhere, and is endless."
  Part 3 (ans: "Mr Bleaney"):
    The speaker of this Larkin poem rents a dingy room once occupied by the deceased title character, noting that "how we live measures our own nature" and that the title character had "no more to show / Than one hired box."

[B8] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this author observes that "they fuck you up, your mum and dad." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip (Arthur)  Larkin):
    Name this English poet of "This Be The Verse," who worked as a librarian for many years at the University of Hull.
  Part 2 (ans: "  Aubade "):
    Larkin described his fear of death after waking in the "soundless dark" in this poem, which describes how "postmen like doctors go from house to house." This poem is titled for a type of song set at dawn.
  Part 3 (ans: "  Days "):
    This other poem by Larkin depicts "the priest and the doctor / In their long coats / running over the fields." This poem states that the title things are "where we live" and "are to be happy in."

[B9] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The first chapter of John Betjeman's blank verse memoir Summoned by Bells, which explores his "memories of the nursery," is titled for being "Before" this time period. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: 1914 [or MCMXIV; accept "Before MCMXIV"]):
    Give this title time period of a poem whose speaker sees a photograph of "archaic faces grinning as if it were all an August Bank Holiday" before reflecting that there has been "never such innocence, never before or since."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    Betjeman was close friends with this author of "MCMXIV" and helped popularize his collection The Whitsun Weddings. This poet wrote that "they fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: churches [accept "Church Going"; accept A Passion for Churches; reject other types of church building such as "basilicas" or "cathedrals"]):
    In a BBC show, Betjeman reads Larkin's poem about one of these places "not worth stopping for" as Larkin acts it out. Betjeman wrote a documentary about his "Passion for" these places, which Larkin discussed in a poem titled for "Going" to one.

[B10] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about antinatalism in British poetry, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: William Blake):
    This author's "Infant Sorrow" is told from the perspective of a "helpless, naked, piping loud" baby who is extremely unhappy to be born. His other poems about children include "The Little Black Boy."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    The warning "get out as early as you can / and don't have any kids yourself" ends this poet's "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: Louis MacNeice [or Frederick Louis MacNeice]):
    An unborn child fears "those who would freeze my humanity" in this poet's "Prayer Before Birth," which was one of several poems in which he implicitly criticized Ireland's neutrality during World War II.

[B11] 2021 Penn Bowl (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author entreated writers to "let [the villainess] hate the heroine wholeheartedly, and refuse, yes, even on the last page, to take her hand in forgiveness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    Name this author who wrote the essay "What Are We Writing For?" and a series of girls school novels under the pseudonym Brunette Coleman. He reused some of that material for early novels like Jill and A Girl in Winter.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingsley Amis):
    Larkin's pseudonym may have been inspired by this man's "Anna Lucasta" pseudonym. Larkin made significant contributions to the novel Lucky Jim by this author, whose son Martin wrote Money.
  Part 3 (ans: "An Arundel Tomb"):
    In this poem, Larkin writes that "Time has transfigured them into / Untruth" and "What will survive of us is love" in his description of the final resting place of an earl and countess.

[B12] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about poetry that draws upon the Beatles, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Polish [or polski; the poets are Stanislaw Baranczak and Czeslaw Milosz]):
    A poet in this language lowered the singer's age to 63 in his adaptation of "When I'm Sixty-Four." His book Surgical Precision won the Nike Award, the top prize for literature in this language, a year after a Nobel laureate won it for his collection Roadside Dog.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    This poet described his sexual awakening "Between the end of the 'Chatterley' ban / And the Beatles' first LP" in his poem "Annus Mirabilis." He wrote: "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his poem "This Be the Verse".
  Part 3 (ans: Omeros [by Derek Walcott]):
    In chapter VI of this long poem, the pregnant housemaid Helen sings the Beatles' "Yesterday" while strolling down the beach, before imagining the burning of Troy.

[B13] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one poem, this animal is declared to be "a king in exile, uncrowned in the underworld." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: snakes):
    Name this type of animal. It flees after the speaker of the poem throws a log at it, causing the speaker to state regretfully that "I have something to expiate: a pettiness."
  Part 2 (ans: D (avid) H (erbert) Lawrence):
    This author wrote "Snake." His novel Lady Chatterley's Lover was the subject of a major obscenity trial.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    In "Annus Mirabilis," this poet claims that "sexual intercourse began" between "the end of the Chatterley ban and the Beatles' first LP." Another poem by this writer advises the reader to "Get out as early as you can / and don't have any kids yourself."

[B14] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a sequel to this poem, the speaker describes "blurred playground noises" and "black stockinged nurses" while taking a walk in the park to avoid work, but admits that shirking "doesn't suit me." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Toads"):
    Name this poem that asks "why should I let the [title creatures] squat on my life" before mentioning the wives of pensioners who are "as skinny as whippets."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    "Toads" is by this British poet who also wrote that "Sexual intercourse began / In nineteen sixty-three" in the poem "Annus Mirabilis." He also wrote "This Be the Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: "Death of a Naturalist" (by Seamus Heaney)):
    This poem by another author concludes by calling some frogs "great slime kings [...] gathered there for vengeance." This poem titles a collection that also contains "Blackberry-Picking" and "Digging."

[B15] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A series of poems in this poet's first collection, A Way of Looking, describe Florence as set in 'one bowl, one valley / Assisted by hills to peace'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Elizabeth Jennings):
    Name this poet who defined 'Forgiveness' as 'the word which we surrender by' and 'the language where we have to live' in their collection Moments of Grace.
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    This contemporary of Jennings considered 'a phrase applicable to no one' in 'Maiden Name', collected in New Lines. They also described 'the toad work' in 'Toads' and how 'a dozen marriages got under way' in 'The Whitsun Weddings'.
  Part 3 (ans: 'High Windows'):
    This Larkin poem posits a paradise with 'everyone young going down the long slide / To happiness', and ends by considering the 'deep blue air' which is 'Nothing, and is nowhere, and is endless'.

[B16] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist describes himself as a "man of two faces" after fleeing this country to Los Angeles, where he spies on "the General" in the 2016 novel The Sympathizer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Vietnam [or Viet Nam; or Socialist Republic of Vietnam]):
    Name this country. Paul Berlin chases a man who tries to walk from this modern-day country to Paris in the novel Going After Cacciato ("ka-CHA-toh").
  Part 2 (ans: Tim O'Brien):
    Going After Cacciato was written by this author, who fictionalized his time in the Vietnam War in the collection The Things They Carried.
  Part 3 (ans: aubade ("oh-BOD") [accept "Aubade with Burning City"] (The other poem is "Aubade" by Philip Larkin.)):
    A poem by Ocean Vuong ("VOO-ung") about the Fall of Saigon is titled for this poetic genre "with Burning City." The speaker of another poem in this genre declares "I work all day, and get half-drunk at night."

[B17] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Veronica Forrest-Thomson's Poetic Artifice was published forty years ago this year. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ludwig Wittgenstein):
    Forrest-Thomson's critical work was heavily indebted to this man. She paid tribute to him in her second volume of poetry, Language-Games, which is titled for a concept in this thinker's Philosophical Investigations.
  Part 2 (ans: Jeremy Halvard Prynne):
    In "Cordelia: or, 'A Poem Should Not Mean, But Be'", Forrest-Thomson claims that this man thinks the Cambridge University Library has got his middle name wrong, because the "H" actually stands for "Hah". This author of Kitchen Poems part-supervised Forrest-Thomson's PhD.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    In Poetic Artifice, Forrest-Thomson criticises writers who think they have access to "reality in its unmediated state". According to her, this author of "Born Yesterday" is "almost embarrassingly lucid" in his poem "Mr Bleaney".

[B18] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem from Human Dark with Sugar calls this thing a "kind of ancient / date-rape drug" because its functions are to "confuse me, ovulate me, / spoon-feed me longing." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Moon [or Luna]):
    Name this night-sky object that is told that the "sun is worth ten of you" in the aforementioned poem by Brenda Shaughnessy. In "Funeral Blues," W. H. Auden demands that we "pack up [this object] and dismantle the Sun."
  Part 2 (ans: Mina Loy [or Mina Gertrude Lowy]):
    This English poet wrote that "our every corpuscle become an elf" in her poem "Moreover, the Moon." This close friend of Djuna Barnes wrote "Parturition," contributed to the Dada journal The Blind Man, and wrote a "Feminist Manifesto."
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    This author drew on Philip Sidney's line "with how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies!" for his poem "Sad Steps." This librarian at the University of Hull described a misery that "deepens like a coastal shelf" in a 1971 poem.

[B19] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote about a man from "up by Kosciusko's side" who chased down a valuable runaway colt even after famous horsemen like Clancy of the Overflow had failed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Banjo Paterson [Andrew Barton "Banjo" Paterson]):
    Name this poet who wrote about life in his country's bush in the literary journal The Bulletin, including his poem "The Man from Snowy River."
  Part 2 (ans: (Commonwealth of) Australia):
    Banjo Paterson was a poet from this country; he wrote this country's much-beloved song about a "jolly swagman" who "camped by a billabong," "Waltzing Matilda."
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Larkin [Philip Arthur Larkin]):
    The line "I work all day and hardly drink at all" opens a poem by Australian poet Les Murray, which parodies this Englishman's poem "Aubade." Another of his poems advises "Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself."

[B20] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author described newly married couples boarding a train on a sweltering day in the title poem of his collection Whitsun Weddings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip (Arthur) Larkin):
    Name this sardonic English poet, whose poem "This Be the Verse" begins "They fuck you up, your mum and dud."
  Part 2 (ans: "Aubade"):
    The speaker of this Larkin poem declares that "Death is not different whined at than withstood." This ironic morning song begins: "I work all day, and get half-drunk at night."
  Part 3 (ans: "Entropy"):
    A half alien named Aubade only possesses the sense of hearing in this short story, in which she repeatedly notes that the temperature outside is always 37 degrees despite changes in the weather.

[B21] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem claims "death is no different whined at than withstood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Aubade"):
    Name this poem completed three years after the poet's collection High Windows. It begins with the line "I work all day, and get half-drunk at night," and ends with the image of postmen going "like doctors from house to house."
  Part 2 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    "Aubade" was written by this British poet. The statement "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" opens his poem "This Be The Verse."
  Part 3 (ans: Sidney Bechet [accept For Sidney Bechet]):
    In a Larkin poem dedicated to this man, the speaker declares "My Crescent City is where [this person's] speech alone is understood." This person's music is compared to "New Orleans reflected on the water," and falls on the speaker "as they say love should, like an enormous yes."

[B22] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: While in a relationship with Monica Jones, this man described sexual intercourse as "asking someone else to blow your own nose for you." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Arthur Larkin):
    Name this man who, in a different context, wrote that "sexual intercourse began / In nineteen sixty-three / (which was rather late for me)."
  Part 2 (ans: "An Arundel Tomb"):
    The speaker of this Larkin poem describes the effigies of an "earl and countess" that "lie in stone" in an old cathedral. It concludes by noting, "What will survive of us is love."
  Part 3 (ans: your mum and dad [accept "your parents" or equivalents]):
    In "This Be The Verse," Larkin wrote that these two people "fuck you up" and "fill you up with the faults they had." He advises the reader to "Get out as early as you can, / And don't have any kids yourself."

[B23] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In the first poem of this collection, the speaker compares himself and his wife to effigies on a "marriage-tomb...each wishing for the sword that severs all." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Modern Love):
    Name this collection written after the author's wife ran off with Henry Wallis.
  Part 2 (ans: George Meredith):
    Modern Love was written by this author of The Egoist. The title character is put through The System by his father in his The Ordeal of Richard Feverel.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    This later English poet concluded, "What will survive of us in love," in a poem about sculptures on a tomb. This author of The Whitsun Weddings also advised "don't have any kids yourself" in "This Be The Verse."

[B24] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: He stated that he would "construct a religion" that would "make use of water" in his poem "Water." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    Name this English poet who wrote "They fuck you up your mum and dad" in his poem "This Be the Verse."
  Part 2 (ans: "An Arundel Tomb"):
    This Larkin poem speculates on the lives of an earl and countess, who lay "side by side, their faces blurred." This poem concludes "what will survive of us is love."
  Part 3 (ans: Ted Hughes):
    After the death of John Betjeman, Elizabeth II offered Larkin the post of poet laureate, but he turned it down. This author of The Hawk in the Rain and Lupercal took the post in Larkin's stead.

[B25] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author memorialized a friend suffering from AIDS in his poem "The Man With Night Sweats." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Thom Gunn):
    Name this British poet, whose collection The Sense of Movement includes his poem about a motorcycle gang, "On the Move."
  Part 2 (ans: The Movement):
    Thom Gunn is often considered a member of this group of post-World War II British poets, whose works are characterized by straightforward language and ironic themes. Its other members included D. J. Enright, John Wain, and Kingsley Amis.
  Part 3 (ans: Philip Larkin):
    This English poet of "High Windows" was a prominent member of the Movement. He warned "they fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his poem "This Be the Verse."
