=== STOCK CLUES: Stalin ===
Tossup questions: 20 found, 107 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 51 found, 153 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 Untitled Film Set (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Joseph Stalin [or Josif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili; accept The Death of Stalin] (The officer mentioned in the third line is Georgy Zhukov, who is portrayed by Jason Isaacs. Stalin preferred his portrayal by Aleksei Dikiy to those of Gelovani because Dikiy spoke classical Russian without a hint of a Georgian accent.)
  - In a film titled for this person, a young doctor replies to the question "how old are you?" by stammering, "I'm ... old!" In a film titled for this person, seven people raise their hands in sequence due to peer pressure regardless of whether they agree on a set of motions, allowing official records to state that the motions were "carried ... unanimously." Because they felt the audience would fail to find the real number believable, the costume designers of that film titled for this person used fewer medals than an (*) officer wore in real life for the attire of the actor portraying him. [PWR]
  - In that film, this person dies from laughter reading a letter of contempt from a pianist.
  - This person liked fifteen films in which he was portrayed by Mikheil Gelovani, but greatly disliked Gelovani's perfect reproduction of his Georgian accent.
  - For 10 points, actors like Steve Buscemi use their own accents in an Armando Iannucci satire of what politician's death? [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili; accept No. 1 before mentioned]
  - In one novel, the only chapter written from this character's point of view sees him reflect on the things whose fate are "at stake". [PWR]
  - In another novel, one character imagines history being taught in the future using algebraic formulae and a diagram of this character's brain. [PWR]
  - In that novel, this character is likened to God-the-Son by a character who then goes to Belgium to negotiate with Little Loewy . [PWR]
  - After being ostracised for refusing to renounce his work, physicist Viktor (*) Strum returns to his job after this man calls him in Vasily  Grossman's Life and Fate. [PWR]
  - In another novel, Gletkin extracts a confession to kill this man from a character who taps on a wall to communicate with Number 402.
  - Rubashov  is executed by this man's regime at the end of that novel.
  - For 10 points, name this character who is referred to as No. 1 in Darkness at Noon. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzhugashvili; accept Soselo; prompt on yeti by asking "what real-life person does that represent?"] ("Notes from a Nonexistent Himalayan Expedition" is by Wislawa Szymborska.)
  - The speaker declares that "an oppressed man / Strives again to reach the pure mountain" in this author's poem "To the Moon." An allegory of this real-life person is told "we've got Shakespeare there" and "we play solitaire / and violin" in the poem "Notes from a Nonexistent Himalayan Expedition." This person's words are "measures of weights" and fingers "ten thick worms" in a poem that describes "the huge laughing cockroaches on his top lip."The novel In the First Circle chronicles the rule of this person, the subject of an "Epigram" by Osip Mandelstam.
  - An autobiographical novel in three volumes set during this leader's rule describes the timeline of a typical "zek." For 10 points, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipelago describes the era of rule of what Soviet dictator? [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Khrushchev Thaw [or De-Stalinization or word forms; or ottepel; or destalinizatsiya; accept First Thaw or Second Thaw; prompt on Khrushchev era until "Khrushchev" is read; prompt on post-Stalin era, Soviet era, Cold War, or equivalents of any] (Clues include Vladimir Pomerantsev, "The Heirs of Stalin" by Yevgeny Yevtushenko, and the Mayakovsky Square poetry readings.)
  - Emblematic works of this period include the essay "On Sincerity in Literature" and a poem in which a telephone line hooked up to a coffin floats out of a silent room of glass and marble.
  - Movements that began during this broader period include the SMOG group, the "author songs" of the guitar poets, and the Village Prose style.
  - This period's namesake "generation" of poets gained fame from readings in a square named for a poet who had shot himself 30 years earlier.
  - This period got its name from the title of a novel by the co-author of the Black Book, Ilya Ehrenburg.
  - The ending of this period is typically marked by the Sinyavsky-Daniel Trial, which ushered in a crackdown on samizdat authors.
  - For 10 points, Novy Mir's publication of One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich was allowed during what period of relaxed censorship under Khrushchev? [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Caucasus Mountains [or Caucasia, Qafqaz, Kovkas, or Kavkaz; accept Georgia, Azerbaijan, Chechnya, Dagestan, Ossetia, Circassia, Stavropol Krai, Krasnodar Krai, Kuban, Kabarda, Kabardia, Adygea, Ingushetia, Alania, Sakartvelo, Kartli, Kakhetia, North Caucasus, South Caucasus, Transcaucasia, Zakavkazye, Ciscaucasia, or Dariel Pass; accept Days in the Caucasus or Jours caucasiens or Caucasian Days; reject "Armenia"] (The third line refers to Lermontov's "The Gift of the Terek" and "Tamara." Ioane Shavteli wrote Abdul-Mesia. The epic is Shota Rustaveli's The Knight in the Panther's Skin. Soselo was Joseph Stalin's pseudonym.)
  - In a memoir titled for this region, a 14-year-old girl marries a loathsome gambler instead of eloping with a prince so she can get her ex-millionaire father a passport.
  - A memoir in French titled for "Days in" this region recalls the youth of the exiled heiress Banine.
  - The so-called "poet of" this region wrote of the "gift" of a "waltzing" and "bewailing" river near a tower housing a seductive queen.
  - That queen from this region was praised in the poem Abdul-Mesia and patronized an epic in shairi quatrains.
  - During his youth in this region, a leader wrote poems like "Morning" under the name Soselo.
  - This transnational region's folkways pepper journal entries like "Bela" in a novel by an author who was exiled here for writing "Death of the Poet"; in that novel, Princess Mary leads Grushnitsky to duel with Pechorin.
  - For 10 points, what mountain range was romanticized in A Hero of Our Time by Mikhail Lermontov? [GIVE]

[T6] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Joseph Stalin [Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]
  - This leader had members of TsUNKhu (t'SUN-koo) arrested after a census revealed a population decrease.
  - New York Times reporter Walter Duranty openly disputed Gareth Jones's account of a disaster under this leader's regime exacerbated by the Law of Spikelets (spike-lets).
  - A German-arranged commission investigating a separate mass execution under this leader's regime discovered the remnants of the Vinnytsia (vin-ITZ-uh) massacre also perpetrated by this man's regime.
  - During this man's time in office, the Shakhty Trial and other accusations of "wrecking" constituted part of the Great Purge.
  - The Holodomor (hah-luh-doh-MOR) occurred under this leader, who initially closed churches to advance state atheism under his Second Five-Year Plan prior to reversing course during the Great Patriotic War.
  - For 10 points, name this dictator of the Soviet Union throughout the 1930s and World War II. [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]
  - This leader's aphorism "everyone imposes his own system as far as his army can reach" was included in a series of "conversations" written by Milovan Djilas.
  - This leader, who is praised in the article "Dizzy with Success," had his policies implemented by a minister of railways named "Iron Lazar." Books by Robert Conquest about this leader include one about an event he oversaw called Harvest of Sorrow.
  - A city named after this leader was defended by Operation Uranus.
  - This leader exacerbated famine through the deportation of kulaks to labor camps, but was forced to reverse course after his country was invaded during Operation Barbarossa.
  - For 10 points, name this Soviet leader who carried out the Holodomor in Ukraine and was in power during World War II. [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Stalin
  - This person is said to have attended the play The Days of the Turbans more than fifteen times. [PWR]
  - The protagonist of a novel has one instance of a recurring toothache after thinking about a portrait of a character based on this man hanging above his bed. [PWR]
  - In a poem, this person is described as "ringed with the scum of chicken-necked bosses" and having "huge laughing cockroaches on his top lip." This subject of an (*) "epigram" by Osip Mandelstam was fictionalized as Number One in Arthur Koestler's novel Darkness at Noon.
  - In the "thaw" after this leader's death, underground samizdat literature began to circulate, including poems by Anna Akhmatova.
  - For 10 points, name this leader who sent Alexander Solzhenitsyn to a gulag. [GIVE]

[T9] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Besarionis dze Jughashvili] (The Conquest book is titled The Great Terror.)
  - Kingsley Amis suggested that a historian use the epigraph "I told you so, you fucking fools" for a book about this leader, who is criticized in a memoir titled for Conversations with him by Milovan Djilas . [PWR]
  - An analogy between a period of this leader's rule and the French Revolution provides the title of a biography by Robert Conquest. [PWR]
  - This leader accused "saboteurs" of trying to overthrow him in a fabricated scheme he blamed on (*) Jewish physicians, known as the Doctor's Plot.
  - The term holodomor refers to a famine caused by the collectivization policies of leader, whose numerous crimes became better known after his successor delivered a "Secret Speech" about him.
  - For 10 points, name this dictator whose reputation was harmed by the denunciation of his successor, Nikita Khrushchev. [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Joseph Stalin
  - Veiled Empire, Douglas Northrop's book about "gender and power" in a region of this ruler's domains, discusses a mob's protest of one of his policies in the Chust Affair.
  - The slogan "To the Attack!" was used for a campaign initiated by this leader's government, whose participants staged public burnings of horsehair robes called paranji.
  - The hujum campaign against the veiling of women occurred under this leader, whose arrest of writers such as Abdurauf Fitrat effectively ended the reformist Jadidi movement.
  - This leader's forces used cattle cars to transport hundreds of thousands of ethnic Koreans and Tatars to a Muslim-majority region in one of his forced population transfer programs.
  - This leader's policy of creating kolkhozes contributed to a famine that killed a fourth of the population of Kazakhstan.
  - For 10 points, name this leader who had the leaders of the Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic executed during his purges in the 1930s. [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin
  - Robert Conquest's book Harvest of Sorrow details event promulgated by this leader.
  - This leader led the anti-semitic "Doctor's Plot" campaign in which he accused several Jewish physicians of plotting to assassinate leaders of his government.
  - A speech denouncing this leader noted that "not even the (*) czars created prizes they named after themselves." That speech which denounced this then-recently deceased leader was Khrushchev's "Secret Speech." This man implemented a series of Five Year Plans in his country which resulted in the kolkhoz collective farming system. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this leader of the Soviet Union after Vladimir Lenin, who led his nation through World War II. [GIVE]

[T12] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Katyusha rocket launcher [accept BM-13; accept Stalin's Organ; accept Kostikov Gun; accept rocket launcher until "Six Day War" and prompt thereafter]
  - One variant on this technology, the LAR, was created by Israel after it captured several prototypes in the Six Day War.
  - This technology was developed at the RNII facility, and one strategy for its use was known as "shoot and scoot." In one incident, a group of insurgents attached one of these to donkey carts.
  - This weapon was designed by Georgy Langemak, who was subsequently executed during the Great Purge.
  - It is significantly more dangerous than the smaller Qassam.
  - A special unit of the NKVD was trained in its use, and it was first deployed at Rudnya during Operation Barbarossa.
  - This weapon was used by Hezbollah to attack Israel during the 2006 Lebanon War, and it is named for a 1938 folk ballad about a woman separated from her lover during the war.
  - For 10 points, name this Soviet multiple-rocket launcher which had a capital "K" stamped on it. [GIVE]

[T13] 2015 RILKE (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Communism or state socialism [accept Maoism or Maobadis or CTs or MCPs or MRLAs or anything else falling under a Communist umbrella such as Marxist-Leninism or "collectivism"; accept Stalinism before mentioned]
  - This philosophy's supporters look for loot from "Golden Lily" at a Boer War vet's tea plantation Majuba.
  - Opposing this philosophy leads a seamstress to hire the refugee Pitamber in The Royal Ghosts, which includes a story about a schizophrenic ranting to his mom about its followers. [PWR]
  - A curfew targets this philosophy during an ex-POW judge's apprenticeship to a Japanese tattoo artist in The Garden of Evening Mists. [PWR]
  - A poem predicts this philosophy will create "a new ocean" "active as the Araucarian volcanoes' fire" through a figure whose "bedroom light is turned off late." Americans ban (*) whiskey because drinking makes them support it according to a lector who reads Tolstoy aloud in Anna in the Tropics. [PWR]
  - This philosophy has "made a king of a carpenter" according to "Let the woodcutter awaken." Two hungry miners at Chuquicamata inspire the narrator to support this ideology in The Motorcycle Diaries.
  - For 10 points, name this ideology advanced by Canto General's paean to Stalin. [GIVE]

[T14] 2015 Chicago Open History (2015) | Diff: 10 | Social Science
     Answer: Nazism and Stalinism (accept in either order; accept equivalent answers such as "Fascism and Communism" or the "Nazi system and the Soviet system")
  - Two answers required A 2008 book edited by Michael Geyer and Sheila Fitzpatrick attempted to make comparisons between these two political systems. [PWR]
  - In a certain "Black Book," Stephane Courtois argued that one of these systems borrowed methods of violence from the other, and attempts to tally the casualties of the latter system.
  - Timothy Snyder's book Bloodlands studies how the interaction of these two systems led them both to become more violent. [PWR]
  - The "Historians' Quarrel" was a debate between historians who believed that these two systems were comparable and those adhering to the (*) Sonderweg thesis, which argued that one of them was incomparably evil.
  - The most famous study of these two systems argues that they attempted to destroy class divisions in order to create "masses", and relied on "ideology and terror" to exert control over their populations.
  - For 10 points, identify these two systems, which were studied by Hannah Arendt in The Origins of Totalitarianism and which clashed during World War II. [GIVE]

[T15] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Dzhugashvili; prompt on pseudonyms/nicknames like Koba, Vasiliev, Chizhikov, Besoshvili and Ivanovich]
  - A notable book about this man's career contains the chapter "Winged Genghis Khan," which describes his machinery like his namesake "Pipe Organs" before a chapter "About 'Obsolete' Airplanes." Another book on this man by the same author was criticized for neglecting the reassessment of this figure's life by Dmitru (*) Volkogonov. [PWR]
  - Cynthia Ann Ruder's Making History for this man tells the The Story of the Belomor Canal, whereas Laughter and the Twenty Million subtitles Martin Amis' treatment of this man, Koba the Dread.
  - As well as a man who was outmaneuvered by this historical personage, Isaac Deutscher is the major biographer of this figure.
  - For 10 points, name this primary subject of Viktor Suvorov's books Icebreaker and The Chief Culprit, a Georgian- born alterer of photographs who led the USSR in World War II. [GIVE]

[T16] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Battle of Stalingrad
  - David Glantz has debunked several myths about this battle in a book titled for 'Armageddon at' it. [PWR]
  - One side in this battle was trapped in a pocket which they dubbed 'the Cauldron' where they were forced to eat their own horses. [PWR]
  - In this battle, the invaders were stalled by the 1077th anti-aircraft regiment, which was composed mostly of women just out of high school. [PWR]
  - During this battle, a tractor factory was modified to produce (*) T-34 tanks. [PWR]
  - The tide of battle turned after Georgy Zhukov unleashed Operation Uranus, and this battle ended shortly after the capture of Friedrich Paulus.
  - For 10 points, name this battle of World War II in which the Soviets defeated Germany at a city on the Volga River which was then named for the Soviet premier. [GIVE]

[T17] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Josef Stalin [or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili]
  - This man's fingers were compared to grubs and his mustache to a cockroach in a poem by Osip Mandelstam.
  - Historians argue whether he participated in or just stood and watched the Tiflis bank robbery, which he planned.
  - He wrote the article "Dizzy with Success" to criticize "excesses" in a campaign he had initiated that led to the holodomor.
  - He fabricated the Doctors' Plot and was in power when the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was signed.
  - For 10 points, name this Georgian who was leader of the USSR when Hitler launched Operation Barbarossa. [GIVE]

[T18] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Josip Broz Tito-Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin split [accept in either order; accept equivalent answers; accept Josip Broz for Tito; accept Ioseb Dzugashvili for Stalin; or Yugoslav-Soviet split before mentioned]
  - This event was followed by the Informbiro period in one of the relevant countries.
  - Supporters of one side were sent to the prison island Goli otok, and Traicho Kostov and Laszlo Rajk were both executed for their alleged support of the other.
  - One man in this event became angry at the other for that man's impolitic involvement in the Greek Civil War and attempts to incorporate Trieste into his country.
  - This event was made official with a 1948 resolution that accused another country's Communist party of splitting with Marxist-Leninism and expelled it from Cominform.
  - For 10 points, name this cooling of relations between the leaders of Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union. [GIVE]

[T19] 2012 Chicago Open History Doubles (2012) | Diff: 10 | History
     Answer: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili
  - Simplicissimus and the Catholic Library Service both depicted this man as an eight-legged monster, and other depictions of him were moved to Grutas Park.
  - Isaak Brodsky twice showed him standing behind a desk, and Boris Vladimirsky showed him standing and gesturing with a red pencil.
  - Often shown smoking a pipe, Otakar Svec created the largest depiction of this man.
  - That massive statue in Prague was destroyed in 1962, and many other statues of him can now be found in Fallen Monument Park.
  - Many images of this man later had political enemies such as Lev Kamenev and Grigory Zinoviev removed.
  - For 10 points, name this Georgian, depicted sitting with Churchill and Roosevelt at the Yalta and Tehran conferences. [GIVE]

[T20] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin (Iosif Dzhugashvili)
  - In a literary parody of this person, the painter Artis draws a perfect likeness of this man's penis being ridden by a few world statesmen on a urinal erected in his honor - that novel is The Yawning Heights. [PWR]
  - A letter to this person prefaces the fifteen stories in the story collection The Dragon, which begins with "A Provincial Tale." The short story "The Circle of Friends" depicts this figure taking off a bushy mustache as if it were a prop, and then shooting at his reflection. [PWR]
  - His thick fingers are described as bulky and fat like live-baits in a poem titled after (*) this man's epigram, which was written by a poet who attempted to make amends for that work by writing an ode to this figure - that poet was the author of Voronezh Notebooks, Osip Mandelstam. [PWR]
  - This man's time in power is treated in the novel Children of the Arbat.
  - FTP, name this author of the pamphlet "Dialectical and Historical Materialism" who purged folks like Nikolai Bukharin.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 MRNA (2026) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A European ruling party aligned with this ideology censored passages from the novel The Siege, which referred to the Christian beliefs held by a garrison of soldiers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: communism [accept socialism; accept Hoxhaism; accept Stalinism]):
    Name this ideology, whose totalitarian rule was criticized by the novel The Palace of Dreams. Dissidents to this ideology used samizdat to distribute Boris Pasternak's novel Doctor Zhivago.
  Part 2 (ans: Ismail Kadare (that novel is The General of the Dead Army)):
    The Siege and The Palace of Dreams are by this author, who won the first Man Booker International Prize. A novel by this author is about an unnamed officer who repatriates corpses of dead Italian soldiers from World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: bridges [accept The Three-Arched Bridge; or Ura me tri harqe; or The Bridge on the Drina]):
    The monk Gjon narrates an Ismail Kadare novel titled for a Three-Arched one of these structures. In an Ivo Andric novel titled after one of these structures, Osman Effendi nails Alihodja Mutevelic's ear to the title structure's gate.

[B2] 2026 MRNA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: With Mikhail Frunze and Vladimir Triandafillov, this commander devised a strategy that emphasized destroying enemy forces not just at the line of contact but throughout the depth of the battlefield. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mikhail Tukhachevsky [or Mikhail Nikolayevish Tukhachevsky]):
    Name this commander credited with developing the deep operation military theory. This man's drive to Warsaw during the Polish-Soviet War was stopped by Jozef Pilsudski ("YOO-zehf peew-SUT-skee") in the Miracle on the Vistula.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Iosef Dzhugashvili]):
    Tukhachevsky blamed the Red Army's failure to capture Warsaw on this future dictator of the Soviet Union, who executed Tukhachevsky during his Great Purge of the Red Army's Generals.
  Part 3 (ans: Aleksei Brusilov [or Aleksei Alekseyevish Brusilov]):
    During the Polish-Soviet War, this former Tsarist officer published an appeal in Pravda that encouraged anti-Bolsheviks to join the Red Army. During a World War I offensive led by this officer, Romania joined the Allies.

[B3] 2025 NASAT (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Masha Gessen's book about a place under this leader dubs it "the worst good idea ever." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin [Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzhugashvili]):
    Name this leader, during whose reign Birobidzhan ("bih-roh-bee-JAHN") was founded as the center of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast. He oversaw the USSR's entrance into World War II.
  Part 2 (ans: cossacks [or Ukrainian Cossacks; or Zaporizhian Cossacks]):
    A branch of these non-Jewish people comprised most of Birobidzhan's population. Leaders of these people often took the title of hetman.
  Part 3 (ans: Politburo [or Politbureau CC CPSS; or political bureau]):
    Birobidzhan was the site of a never-realized Yiddish conference planned by Lazar Kaganovich of this Stalinist organization. It shares its name with the central policymaking committee of a communist party.

[B4] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The original version of this poem, which led to its author's arrest, calls its subject a "peasant-slayer." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Stalin Epigram" [accept "The Kremlin Highlander" or "Kremlovskiy gorets"] (by Osip Mandelstam)):
    Name this poem which ends by stating that for its subject, "Every killing...is delight / And Ossetian Torso is wide."
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreevna Gorenko] (The poem is Requiem.)):
    This poet and friend of Osip Mandelstam also described life under Stalin and the imprisonment of her son Lev in a poem in which a woman with "lips blue from the cold" whispers "Can you describe this?"
  Part 3 (ans: a hero [accept Poem Without a Hero or Poema bez Geroya; accept A Hero of Our Time or Geroy nashego vremeni]):
    Another poem by Akhmatova is titled Poem Without this type of figure. Mikhail Lermontov wrote a novel titled for this type of figure of Our Time.

[B5] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Masha Gessen's book about a place under this leader dubs it "the worst good idea ever" and frames its story around David Bergelson, who vigorously promoted settlement to it while pretending to live there. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    Name this leader, during whose reign Birobidzhan ("bih-roh-bee-JAHN") was founded to be the center of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast. He oversaw the USSR's entrance into World War II.
  Part 2 (ans: cossacks [accept Ukrainian Cossacks; accept Zaporizhian Cossacks]):
    A branch of these people, not Jews, made up a majority of Birobidzhan's population. Leaders of these people often took the title of hetman, such as a man who defected from Peter the Great's side at the Battle of Poltava.
  Part 3 (ans: Lazar Kaganovich):
    Birobidzhan was the site of a never-realized Yiddish language conference planned by this man, the only Jewish member of Stalin's Politburo. He earned the nickname "Iron Lazar" for executing Stalin's purges.

[B6] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: "Heydar Babaya Salam" is a modern poem in this language, which was the main language used by the Sufi poet Nasimi and the first to be used by lute-playing bards called ashiks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Azerbaijani [or Azeri; or Azeri Turkic or Azeri Turkish; accept Northern Azerbaijani, Southern Azerbaijani, or Iranian Azerbaijani; accept Turki or Torki; reject "Farsi" or "Persian"; reject "Turkish"] ("Heydar Babaya Salam" is by Mohammad Hossein Shahriar. The ruler is Isma'il I, the first Safavid shah.)):
    What language's poetry was pioneered by a ruler who named his progeny after Shahnameh characters? That ruler used the pen name "Khata'i" to write the Dahnama in a predecessor to this modern Turkic language.
  Part 2 (ans: Mikhail Lermontov [or Mikhail Yuryevich Lermontov] (The novel is A Hero of Our Time.)):
    This author's parents took him to Azerbaijan to cure his childhood maladies, inspiring him to transcribe the folk tale "Ashik Kerib." Princess Mary appears in a novel by this Russian author of "Death of a Poet."
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili; or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili; accept "Stalin Epigram"]):
    This leader supported the recognition of Nizami as Azerbaijan's national poet. A namesake epigram by Osip Mandelstam criticizes this Soviet leader, who used the pen name Soselo to write Georgian poetry.

[B7] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This event leads an author to move to a totalitarian version of Atlanta in John Trefry's novel Massive, which imitates the style of Arno Schmidt. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the arrest of Osip Mandelstam ("mandel-STAHM") [accept the exile of Osip Mandelstam; prompt on arrest or exile by asking "of which author?"; reject answers mentioning "gulags"]):
    A 2023 Ismail Kadare ("kah-dah-RAY") novel gives 13 accounts of a phone call informing Boris Pasternak of what event? After this event, its subject wrote the Voronezh Notebooks, whose memorization is recounted in the memoir Hope Against Hope.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzhugashvili; accept "Stalin Epigram"]):
    The title of Kadare's A Dictator Calls refers to this man, who rolls "executions on his tongue like berries" in the "Epigram" that got Mandelstam arrested.
  Part 3 (ans: Tolstoy [accept Aleksei Nikolayevich Tolstoy]):
    The opening line of Nadezhda Mandelstam's Hope Without Hope recalls how Osip rushed back to Moscow fearing his arrest after slapping a member of this family. That writer from this family wrote science fiction novels like Aelita.

[B8] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this period, Arso Jovanovic ("yoh-VAH-noh-vitch") led a failed coup that inspired insurrections in towns such as Bijelo Polje ("BEE-yeh-loh POL-yeh") and Cazin ("TSAH-zeen"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Informbiro period [prompt on descriptive answers such as the Tito-Stalin split]):
    Name this period during which over 100 citizens were killed at the Goli Otok ("GOH-lee OH-toke") prison camp. The Belgrade declaration ended this seven-year period with a rapprochement between the Soviet Union and another nation.
  Part 2 (ans: Josip Broz Tito [or Josip Broz]):
    The Informbiro period was exacerbated by Stalin's split with this leader of the Partisans who was president of Yugoslavia until his death in 1980.
  Part 3 (ans: Zagreb):
    During the Informbiro period, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia became the League of Communists of Yugoslavia in this city. Ante Pavelic ("AHN-tay PAH-vay-litch") led a Nazi-aligned party from this city, from which Franjo Tuđman ("FRAHN-yoh TOODZH-mahn") later ruled.

[B9] 2024 HILTON (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This character appears in a poem that urges him to go "to the dark boundary" where others went before him. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mr. Cogito (accept Pan Cogito)):
    What character is told to "quit looking at your clown's face in the mirror" in a poem titled for his envoy. He also appears in the same author's Elegy for the Departure.
  Part 2 (ans: Poland):
    Mr. Cogito was created by a supposed relative of George Herbert from this country, home to an author that wrote the line "the book of events is always open halfway through" in one poem.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin (accept Stalin Epigram)):
    Polish poet Czeslaw Milosz wrote The Captive Mind as a commentary on the ideology of this world leader. An epigram named for him describes "huge laughing cockroaches on his top lip".

[B10] 2023 SUDO (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This author, who recounted her eventful life in Twenty Letters to a Friend, was sent to India, then Rome, then Geneva, during a chaotic trip ending in the U.S.. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Svetlana Iosifovna Alliluyeva [or Svetlana Iosifovna Alliluyeva; or Lana Peters; prompt on Svetlana Iosifovna Stalina (as she understandably didn't want to use that last name)]):
    Name this daughter of Joseph Stalin, who defected to the United States.
  Part 2 (ans: Sochi ):
    Before defecting to the U.S., Svetlana went to this city with her lover, Kumwar Brajesh Singh, to help him recover from TB; a 2010s village within this city is now completely abandoned.
  Part 3 (ans: Frank Lloyd Wright):
    Svetlana later married the son-in-law and architect disciple of this founder of the Prairie School. She described his widow Olgivanna, who "required complete subservience" and ordered her to have an abortion, as worse than her father.

[B11] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Pitesti reeducation experiment ended after the purging of this politician. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ana Pauker [or Hannah Rabinsohn]):
    Name this subject of a Robert Levy book subtitled "The Rise and Fall of a Jewish Communist." This first female foreign minister in the world led the "Muscovite faction" and became the Minister of Foreign Affairs after the ousting of Gheorge Tatarescu.
  Part 2 (ans: Securitate):
    Ana Pauker was a leader of this Romanian secret police agency which was operated by Nicolae Ceausescu (chow-SES-coo). Ion Mihai Pacepa's defection from this agency was the highest-ranking defection of the Eastern Bloc.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    Pauker was purged by Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej (gee-OR-gee gor-GOO-dej) after a meeting with this Soviet leader, who accused a group of primarily Jewish doctors of trying to assassinate Soviet leaders between 1951-53.

[B12] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Name some things about the political activism of actor Prithviraj ("PRIT-vee-rahj") Kapoor, who was close friends with Jawaharlal ("juh-WAH-hur-LAHL") Nehru. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    When Nehru met with this world leader, he wouldn't stop talking about Kapoor's performance in Awaara. This Soviet leader carried out the Great Purge.
  Part 2 (ans: RSS [or Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh]):
    Kapoor had a spat with the second leader of this organization, M. S. Golwalkar, at Khandala station. Nathuram Godse ("NAH-too-rum GOD-say"), Gandhi's assassin, was part of this Hindu nationalist organization with close links to the BJP.
  Part 3 (ans: V. K. Krishna Menon [or Vengalil Krishnan Krishna Menon]):
    Nehru sent Kapoor to campaign for this ally of his, who oversaw the annexation of Goa as Minister of Defense. This pioneer of the Non-Aligned Movement founded the India League in Britain.

[B13] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title story of a collection by this author follows a revolutionary who dies by jumping into a furnace while trying to escape a labor camp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Danilo Kis [or Daniel Kiss]):
    Name this Serbian author of the short story collection A Tomb for Boris Davidovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    The title story of A Tomb for Boris Davidovich depicts the terror during the reign of this leader. Alexander Solzhenitsyn was sent to a gulag for criticizing this Georgian-born Soviet leader.
  Part 3 (ans: Spanish Civil War ("The Wall" is by Jean-Paul Sartre.)):
    A story from A Tomb for Boris Davidovich describes Verschoyle's actions in this conflict. The protagonist unknowingly reveals his allies' location in "The Wall," a story by a different author set during this conflict.

[B14] 2023 COOT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer analysed how this movement led to fascism and totalitarianism in a work titled for a Dialectic of it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the  Enlightenment [or  Aufklarung ; accept  The Dialectic of  Enlightenment or  Dialektik  der  Aufklarung ]):
    Name this broad 17 th and 18 th century movement in which thinkers championed reason and science.
  Part 2 (ans:  virtue [accept  After  Virtue or  virtue ethics]):
    Another classic modern critique of Enlightenment was Alasdair MacIntyre's book titled "After" this concept. Ethical theories based on this concept were revived by G. E. M. Anscombe in the "aretaic turn."
  Part 3 (ans: Leon  Trotsky [accept Lev Davidovich  Bronstein ] (Those books both attack Stalin.)):
    The last chapter of After Virtue addresses the pessimism of this thinker's later writings, which include a book about another man's "School of Falsification" and a biography of that man subtitled "An Appraisal of the Man and His Infiuence."

[B15] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The narrator of The Memory Chalet recalls how he proselytized a socialist variation of this ideology, but stopped working at a kibbutz after learning that it wasn't compatible with his admission to Cambridge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zionism [or word forms like Zionist movement; accept Labor Zionism]):
    Name this ideology envisioned by Theodor Herzl as a way for Jews to escape antisemitism in Europe.
  Part 2 (ans: Tony Judt):
    The Memory Chalet is framed as this author's life reflections in relation to history while suffering from ALS. This historian wrote Postwar, a survey text on European history since 1945.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    In Postwar, Judt notes how this leader was an "enthusiastic supporter" of Zionism as a foil to British colonial ambitions. This leader, who ordered the death of theater director Solomon Mikhoels, later implicated medical professionals in the Doctors' Plot.

[B16] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Riots in this city were ignited after its antisemitic newspaper Bessarabetz published accusations of blood libel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kishinev [or Chisinau]):
    Name this city in the Russian Empire where a 1903 pogrom inspired Hayim Bialik's ("HA-yim bee-AH-lik's") poem "In the City of Slaughter." Michael Davitt traveled to this city to chronicle those events for The New York Journal.
  Part 2 (ans: The Protocols of the Elders of Zion [or The Protocols of the Meetings of the Learned Elders of Zion; prompt on The Protocols]):
    The editor of Bessarabetz, Pavel Krushevan, was the first to publish this fabricated text. This text was the subject of the 1933 Berne Trial in Switzerland.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    This Soviet premier forced Russian Jews to move to the Jewish Autonomous Oblast in response to pogroms perpetrated around the country. Many Jewish intellectuals were killed during this leader's Great Purge.

[B17] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Morgan Shuster wrote "The Strangling of [this country]" after Russia forced him out of managing its finances for the Second Majlis in the years after the British got oil rights in the D'Arcy concession. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iran [accept Persia; accept Islamic Republic of Iran or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran; accept Imperial State of Iran or Kesvar-e Sahansahi-ye Iran; accept Qajar empire or Sublime State of Persia or Dowlat-e 'Aliyye-ye Iran or Guarded Domains; accept 1979 Iranian Revolution or Enqelab-e Iran; accept Anglo-Persian Oil Company; accept The Strangling of Persia]):
    Name this country whose oil industry was abortively nationalized twice, under Reza Khan and Mohammad Mosaddegh ("moh-sad-DAYG"), before Ayatollah Khomeini ("khoh-MAY-nee") succeeded after a 1979 revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: Khuzestan [or Khuzestan Province or Ostan-e Xuzestan; accept 1979 Khuzestan insurgency; prompt on Arabistan] (DRFLA stands for Democratic Revolutionary Front for the Liberation of Arabistan.)):
    Iran's early oil industry was based around the Abadan ("ah-bah-DON") refinery in this southwestern province. Arab separatists like the DRFLA led a 1979 insurgency in this province, which was the main front of the Iran-Iraq War.
  Part 3 (ans: World War II [or the Second World War or WWII or WW2] (The "Big Three" were Stalin, Churchill, and FDR, who attended the Tehran Conference.)):
    During this conflict, the Trans-Iranian Railway supplied Khuzestan's oil to the "Persian Corridor" and the Arab League was founded. Iran hosted the "Big Three" during this conflict, whose Levant Crisis led to Syrian independence.

[B18] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A work in this genre ends, "I taught women how to speak...but God, how to make them shut up?" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: epigram [accept "Stalin Epigram"]):
    Name this genre that titles a poem that describes the "huge laughing cockroaches" on the top lip of a "Kremlin Highlander."
  Part 2 (ans: Soviet Union [or USSR; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or CCCP or Soyuz Sovetskikh Sotsialisticheskikh Respublik; prompt on Russia or Rossiya]):
    The author of that epigram, Osip Mandelstam, was a 20th-century writer from this country, like Marina Tsvetaeva, Alexander Blok, and Mikhail Bulgakov.
  Part 3 (ans: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko] (The poem in the first line is an epigram by Akhmatova.)):
    Mandelstam was a close friend of this Soviet poet, who described standing in line in front of a Leningrad prison in the section "Instead of a Preface" of her poem "Requiem." She also wrote "Poem without a Hero."

[B19] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Years after writing a poem insulting the "laughing cockroaches on [this man's] top lip" and the "ten thick worms his fingers," a poet wrote a complimentary "Ode to" this man. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili; or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili ("zhoo-GASH-vee-lee")]):
    Name this world leader, who wrote Georgian poetry under the name Soselo. Osip Mandelstam was exiled from the Soviet Union for an "Epigram" describing how this man "rolls the executions on his tongue like berries."
  Part 2 (ans: Requiem [or Rekviem]):
    This poem by Anna Akhmatova describes sufferings during Stalinist purges. This poem's "Crucifixion" section, based on the arrest of Akhmatova's son, describes how "the Mother stood, still, and alone."
  Part 3 (ans: yeti [accept "Calling out to Yeti" or "Wolanie do Yeti"; prompt on Abominable Snowman] (The poem is "Notes from a Nonexistent Himalayan Expedition" by Wislawa Szymborska.)):
    In a poem by a non-Russian author, Stalin is implicitly compared to this creature, who is told "we've got Shakespeare there [...] we play solitaire and violin." In that poem, this creature is called a "semi-moonman" and is told "turn back, think again!"

[B20] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man attacked "rootless cosmopolitans" in an antisemitic campaign. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    Name this man, accused by Leon Trotsky of exploiting antisemitism in his Great Purge of the Soviet government.
  Part 2 (ans: Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union [accept People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs of the Soviet Union]):
    Maxim Litinov held this role in the Soviet Union under Stalin. His successor in this role lost his job when his wife Polina, who was the head of the Ministry of Light Industry, was arrested.
  Part 3 (ans: medical doctors [accept clear knowledge equivalents such as physicians; accept a medical person; accept the Doctor's Plot]):
    Stalin falsely accused primarily Jewish members of this profession of attempting to assassinate him towards the end of his life, leading to numerous arrests. Khrushchev acknowledged that those charges against this profession were fabricated in the Secret Speech.

[B21] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: As the chairwoman of this region, Khertek Anchimaa-Toka became the first non-royal female head of state. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tannu Tuva [accept Tuvan People's Republic]):
    Name this region which formed an independent state until 1944. After the fall of the USSR, this region in Siberia joined the Russian Federation as a republic with its capital at Kyzyl.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [accept Ioseb Besarionis dzе Jugashvili]):
    This leader orchestrated a 1929 coup in Tuva due to Donduk Kuular's association with Buddhist monks. This "man of steel" led the Soviet Union through World War II.
  Part 3 (ans: New Economic Policy [or NEP]):
    Like Stalin, the Tannu Tuva government opposed this Lenin program, which involved mixing free market and capitalist ideas with communism. It would be replaced by the first Five Year Plan.

[B22] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of a poem by this author calls Prince Charming "grace incarnate" and vows not to meet her old "black agate necklace" self until the "Day of Judgment." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko]):
    Name this Russian author of "Poem Without a Hero," who described families who die from famine and mass displacement in her poem Requiem.
  Part 2 (ans: "can you describe this?" [or "A eto vy mozhete opisat?"; accept close translations of the phrase such as "Could you describe this?" or "Could one ever describe this?"]):
    In Requiem's opening section "Instead of a Preface," a woman asks Akhmatova if she can do this specific action. After Akhmatova confirms she can do this action, she sees "something akin to a smile" on the woman's face.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Josef Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili; accept "Stalin Epigram"; prompt on Koba or Sose]):
    Akhmatova was a staunch critic of this Soviet leader who censored her writing. This leader "forges decrees in a line like horseshoes" according to an "Epigram" by Osip Mandelstam.

[B23] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This people's women, like the Ottoman consort Bedrifelek Kadın and the Safavid ambassador Teresa Sampsonia, were stereotyped as "beauties" in 19th-century cosmetics ads. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Circassians [or Cherkessians; accept Circassian genocide; or Adyghe or Adyghe Autonomous Oblast or Republic of Adygea or similar; accept Abzakhs or Besleney or Bzhedug or Chemirgoy or Hatuqwai or Kabardians or Mamkhegh or Natukhaj or Shapsug or Ubykh or Yegeruqwai or Zhaney or variants of those names; accept the related Abkhazians or Abazins or variants]):
    Name this confederation of twelve Muslim tribes whose homeland is now a republic within Krasnodar Krai. After a century of conflict, the Russian Empire massacred and expelled over a million of these people in a genocide.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgia [or Sakartvelo; or Kartvelia; accept Georgia-Imeretia Governorate; prompt on Caucasus Viceroyalty or Russian Empire or Rossiyskaya Imperiya] (The leader was Joseph Stalin.)):
    The Circassian and Murid Wars took place along the "military road" from Vladikavkaz, Ossetia to this former Bagrationi ("buh-gruh-tee-AH-nee") Kingdom. Lavrentiy Beria and the leader who ordered the Katyn massacre were born in this country.
  Part 3 (ans: imams [accept the Caucasian Imamate; accept Imam Shamil; accept divan]):
    The book Borderlands Orientalism argues that Russians held Georgians from Kakheti in high esteem for resisting a Caucasian state led by Avars with this title, like Shamil. These religious authorities lead Islamic worship.

[B24] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Suez Crisis, which occurred simultaneously with this event, allowed the Soviet Union to escape scrutiny for its response to this event. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hungarian Revolution of 1956 [accept any description of an uprising in Hungary]):
    Name this event that sparked demonstrations out of ethnic solidarity in the Transylvanian city of Timisoara. Members of the AVH Secret Police were killed en masse as part of this event.
  Part 2 (ans: Erno Gero):
    This newly-minted leader of Hungary decided to allow a funeral for Laszlo Rajk [rike] and broadcast a speech rejecting protesters' Sixteen Demands, actions which are frequently blamed for the escalation of the Revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    In one of the iconic images of the Revolution, protesters beheaded a statue of this leader. The Revolution began after word got out that this leader's successor, Nikita Khrushchev, had denounced him in a "Secret Speech."

[B25] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The dedication of this poem mentions "Siberian snows" and how "The sun downed, the Neva got mistier." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Requiem (by Anna Akhmatova)):
    Identify this long elegy about the Great Terror, during which the author's husband was killed. This poem ends by describing how "mute ships sail along the Neva."
  Part 2 (ans: Boris Pasternak [or Boris Leonidovich Pasternak]):
    Anna Akhmatova's Requiem was shared via samizdat. The first full-length novel to be shared via samizdat was by this man, who included "The End" and "In Memory of the Demon" in his collection My Sister Life.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or "Stalin Epigram;" or Iosif Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzugashvili]):
    Anna Akhmatova's Requiem memorializes the victims of the purges of this Soviet leader. Osip Mandelstam mocked this leader in a namesake "epigram."

[B26] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Longtime Hoover Institute fellow Robert Conquest drew on accounts made public during the Khrushchev Thaw to explore this man's bloody rule in his 1968 work The Great Terror. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Ioseb Jughashvili]):
    Name this Soviet dictator who executed hundreds of thousands in his Great Purge of the 1930s.
  Part 2 (ans: Sergei Kirov):
    In his 1989 book Stalin and [this man's] Murder, Conquest argued that Stalin ordered the murder of this close confidant as a pretext to begin the Great Purge.
  Part 3 (ans: the Holodomor [or the Great Famine; or the Ukrainian Genocide; or the Terror-Famine in Ukraine; or the Famine-Genocide in Ukraine; prompt on famine; prompt on dekulakization]):
    Though he later retracted his view, Conquest asserted in his 1986 text The Harvest of Sorrow that Stalin deliberately engineered this event, described as a "classic example" of its kind by Raphael Lemkin.

[B27] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Members of this movement met in the Stray Dog Cafe. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Acmeism [or Acmeists; or the Guild of Poets]):
    Name this movement, who named their journal Apollon in opposition to the "Dionysian" symbolists. Mikhail Kuzmin and Osip Mandelstam were members of this Silver Age movement founded by Sergei Gorodetsky and Nikolay Gumilev.
  Part 2 (ans: Anna Akhmatova [or Anna Andreyevna Gorenko]):
    This Acmeist, whom Andrei Zhdanov labelled a "harlot-nun," was once married to Gumilev. She lamented the loss of her son, Lev, to the Great Terror in her Requiem and also wrote a Poem without a Hero.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Dzughashvili]):
    Akhmatova uncharacteristically claimed ""Where [this man] is, there is Freedom, Peace, and the grandeur of the earth" in a 1950 poem. After writing an epigram denouncing this "Kremlin Highlander," Osip Mandelstam was targeted in his Great Purge.

[B28] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Donald Rayfield translated several of this writer's poems, including one that instructs the title celestial object to "sing a lullaby to the glacier / Strung down from the heavens." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    Identify this author of "To the Moon," one of several poems he wrote under the pseudonym Soselo.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgia [or Sakartvelo]):
    As a youth, Stalin admired and memorized parts of Shota Rostaveli's The Knight in the Panther's Skin, the national epic of this country where Stalin was born.
  Part 3 (ans: Anna Akhmatova):
    In fear of Stalin, this author would write poems line by line, allow a small group of friends to commit them to memory, and then burn the slips of paper. This writer began working on a lengthy poem after a woman whose lips were "blue with cold" asked, "Could one ever describe this?"

[B29] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: These people were to be summarily executed for enforcing "Judeo-Bolshevik ideology" in an order signed shortly before the commencement of Operation Barbarossa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: commissars [accept Commissar Order]):
    Name this position in the Soviet military whose holders were attached to a unit to instill Communist principles in the soldiers.
  Part 2 (ans: Baku [or Bakı; accept 26 Baku Commissars]):
    Twenty-six commissars were shot outside this city after a failed 1918 commune in it. This Caucasian city's oil fields were the target of Operation Edelweiss.
  Part 3 (ans: Stalingrad):
    The capture of this city was part of Operation Edelweiss. This city now called Volgograd was the site of a battle that was the turning point of the Eastern Front of World War II and ended in the capture of German Field Marshal Friedrich Paulus.

[B30] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The economic success of agricultural reforms implemented by this man in Abasha helped propel his political career. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eduard Shevardnadze [or Eduard Ambrosiyevich Shevardnadze]):
    Name this politician known as the "Silver Fox" who was ousted in 2003 after mass protests sparked by accusations of electoral fraud. He was also Minister of Foreign Affairs under Mikhail Gorbachev.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgia [or Republic of Georgia]):
    Shevardnadze was president of this former Soviet Republic and was forced to resign after its Rose Revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Dzhugashvili]):
    This ethnic Georgian led the Soviet Union during World War II. He purged millions of political enemies during the 1930s.

[B31] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote that 'one hundred million voices shout' through her 'tortured mouth' in response to her husband and her son being arrested by the secret police. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Anna Akhmatova):
    This Russian poet's Requiem asks 'who is beast and who is man?/How long to execution?' This poet recalls the Silver Age of Russian poetry in "Poem Without a Hero".
  Part 2 (ans: Josef Stalin):
    Requiem is a response to the terror brought about by this ruler of Russia, who started a campaign against Akhmatova after World War Two.
  Part 3 (ans: Marina Tsvetaeva):
    Many of this Russian poet's family were arrested by Stalin's secret police, partly due to her association with the pre-Revolution intelligentsia. This poet glorified the White Army in "The Encampment of Swans" and wrote the pro-imperial verse fairy tale "Tsar Maiden".

[B32] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | Science
     Leadin: A cellulose acetate membrane named for Loeb and Sourirajan is commonly used for this process due to its high flux. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: reverse osmosis [or RO; prompt on partial answer; prompt on but do NOT reveal desalination]):
    Name this process that is divided into pretreatment, pressurization, separation, and stabilization stages. The pore diameter for this process is typically lower than for nanofiltration.
  Part 2 (ans: desalination [or desalinization; DO NOT accept "destalinization"]):
    Reverse osmosis is a "membrane" method of performing this process, which reduces the mineral content of seawater. Around one percent of the world's population are dependent on water obtained from this process.
  Part 3 (ans: multi-stage flash distillation [or MSF distillation; prompt on thermal desalination]):
    Around half of the world's desalinated water is produced through this other desalination technique, in which feed brine water is boiled rapidly at successively lower pressures. It utilizes countercurrent heat exchangers, unlike a similar multi-effect technique.

[B33] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The long 1937 battle over this city featured the so-called "eight hundred heroes," who covered a retreat by holding the Sihang warehouse, supplied by the Girl Guide Yang Huimin ("yong hway-meen"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Shanghai):
    Name this city. A decade earlier, it was the site of a horrific Nationalist massacre of Communists during the April 12 Incident, after which it was run by Green Gang gangsters for a decade.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Stalingrad):
    The Battle of Shanghai is sometimes called the "Yangtze" version of this battle along the Volga River, in which Soviets repulsed a German attack at the cost of over a million casualties.
  Part 3 (ans: USS Panay [accept USS Panay incident/affair]):
    Just after the capture of Shanghai, this US ship built in Shanghai was sunk while it was anchored along the Yangtze. Along with the Allison incident, the sinking of this ship turned US public opinion against Japan.

[B34] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem declares, "The 'Internationale,' let it thunder / when the last antisemite on earth / is buried for ever." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Babiy Yar"):
    Name this poem by Yevgeny Yevtushenko, which notes that "no monument stands over" the title location where a 1941 massacre took place. This poem inspired Shostakovich's 13th symphony.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzhugashvili]):
    Yevtushenko wrote a 1961 poem titled for the "heirs of" this deceased Soviet leader. He was described as a "Kremlin mountaineer" with "huge laughing cockroaches on his top lip" in a namesake "epigram" by Osip Mandelstam.
  Part 3 (ans: Maxim Gorky):
    Yevtushenko was kicked out of a literary institute named for this other writer after the publication of his overly individualistic poem "Zima Junction." Stalin personally served as one of this author's pallbearers.

[B35] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: A member of this family, Ludwig, was nicknamed the "Oil King" of a certain Russian city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nobel):
    Name this family whose members also included Alfred, whose death was erroneously celebrated after Ludwig died. That caused Alfred to establish a series of prizes, including one for Peace, named for this family.
  Part 2 (ans: Baku):
    Ludwig was the "Oil King" of this city in the Russian Empire home to some of Europe's earliest oil fields. Before the First World War, this city was the source of a fifth of the world's oil.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili]):
    Baku was a center for radicals like this man who said that his "last warm feelings for humanity" died when his wife perished due to Baku's pollution. This man later gained fame leading military operations in Tsaritsyn.

[B36] 2016 Penn Bowl (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel opens with an explosive "No!" as the narrator explains to Dr. Oblath why he cannot have a child. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kaddish for an Unborn Child [or Kaddish for a Child Not Born or Kaddis a meg nem szuletett gyermekert]):
    Name this novel by Imre Kertesz about the Holocaust survivor B., who imagines the dark-eyed, freckled daughter or stubborn, blue-eyed son he might have had. It ends "Lord God / let me drown / forever, / Amen."
  Part 2 (ans: Hungary [or Magyarorszag] [do not accept or prompt on Austrio-Hungary]):
    Kertesz is from this modern-day Eastern European country, also home to Ferenc Kazinczy and the author of The Transporters and She Loves Me, Peter Esterhazy.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili; prompt on titles like Great Architect of Communism or Gardener of Human Happiness]):
    In A Novel of Production, Esterhazy caricatures the regime of this leader, who is represented by Napoleon in Animal Farm.

[B37] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Leslie Thornton and W. H. Macdonald of this company were given prison sentences of a few years at a show trial. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Metropolitan-Vickers Trial [or Metrovicks]):
    Name this British electrical engineering company, six of whose engineers were arrested in the Soviet Union and accused of sabotage in 1933.
  Part 2 (ans: machine gun [prompt on guns or automatic weapons]):
    Vickers was a company that, before merging, was known for producing a variety of this weapon. Hiram Maxim developed an early type of this weapon for use by British forces.
  Part 3 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    Several diplomats tried to obtain assurances from this Soviet leader, who guided his country through World War II, that foreign citizens working in Russia would be protected in the wake of the Metro-Vickers Trial.

[B38] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The success of this campaign was aided by the death of theorist Mikhail Tukhachevsky four years earlier. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: German invasion of the Soviet Union [or Operation Barbarossa; accept any answer indicating Hitler or Nazis invading the USSR]):
    Identify this military campaign that broke the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. The success of this campaign enabled one side to starve a lot of Slavs in the "Hunger Plan."
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili]):
    The Red Army was weakened before Hitler's invasion by the purges ordered by this paranoid leader, the successor to Lenin.
  Part 3 (ans: Lavrentiy Pavlovich Beria [or Lavrenti Pavles dze Beria]):
    This person led Stalin's NKVD secret police for almost all of World War II, implementing atrocities like the Katyn Forest Massacre. This Georgian supposedly ran to kiss Stalin's hand when Stalin was bedridden and was killed when Khrushchev came to power.

[B39] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Identify the following about the artist Asger Jorn [yorn], for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: (Kingdom of) Denmark):
    Jorn was a member of the CoBrA movement, whose "Co" stands for the capital of this country, which contains a statue of The Little Mermaid. Jorn himself was from this country, as was Bertel Thorvaldsen.
  Part 2 (ans: Stalingrad [or Volgograd]):
    Jorn's masterpiece is a painting in the Tachism [TA-shiz'm] titled for this city that consists mostly of furious gray lines. This city is overlooked by the statue The Motherland Calls, which sits atop Mamayev Kurgan.
  Part 3 (ans: ceramics [accept pottery]):
    While living in Albiola, Jorn completed his appropriately-titled Big Relief in this medium for the State Grammar School in Aarhus. Josiah Wedgwood worked primarily with this material.

[B40] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: [Note to moderator: Do NOT reveal alternate answers for the first part.] A variation of this specific idea was perpetuated in a 1987 book by Douglas Tottle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: denial of Soviet famine of 1932-1933 [or denial of Holodomor; or denial of Ukrainian famine; accept answers about denial of Holodomor-as-genocide; accept obvious equivalents; prompt on general answers about defending the Soviet Union or defending Stalin or defending the Five Year Plan]):
    What specific idea was spread by New York Times reporter Walter Duranty, which has led to persistent calls to strip him of his Pulitzer? Another person to promote this idea was Louis Fischer, with both men refuting Gareth Jones, the first journalist to break a certain story.
  Part 2 (ans: Ukraine [or Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic]):
    Much Soviet famine denial centered on denying the existence of the Holodomor, a famine that took place in this modern day country, a former Soviet state.
  Part 3 (ans: they were dizzy with success [do not accept alternate answers]):
    In March 1930, a few years before the great famine, Stalin himself called for a temporary halt to the creation of collective farms in a Pravda article with an English title infamously claiming that the people had developed what characteristic because of success?

[B41] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This man compared himself to "one long soundless scream" in a poem that declares "I am every old man executed here as I am every child murdered here." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yevgeny Yevtushenko):
    Name this Soviet writer whose poem "Babi Yar" was set to music by Dmitri Shostakovich.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    Yevtushenko's "Babi Yar" is often perceived as an attack on the anti-semitism of this Soviet premier. He appears in Animal Farm as the pig Napoleon, whose banishment of Snowball mirrors this man's purge of Leon Trotsky.
  Part 3 (ans: Ordinary Men: Reserve Police Battalion and the Final Solution in Poland):
    A massacre similar to Babi Yar perpetrated by Reserve Police Battalion 101, whose soldiers were offered a choice whether or not to participate in the killing, is analyzed in this Christopher Browning book. Its title alludes to the soldier's claims that they were "just following orders."

[B42] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about Soviet historiography. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Katyn Forest Massacre):
    Soviet textbooks blamed the Nazis for this 1940 massacre of Polish soldiers and intelligentsia, though it was actually perpetrated by the NKVD under Lavrenty Beria.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    In works on the Great Patriotic War, Operation Bagration ("ba-gra-tee-ahn") is called the fifth of the ten blows of this Soviet leader who succeeded Lenin and ruled until his 1953 death.
  Part 3 (ans: wrecking [prompt on "sabotage," "undermining," "espionage" or equivalents]):
    A textbook known as "the Short Course" claims that the "Bukharin-Trotsky gang" engaged in this crime. This crime, the subject of the Shakhty trial and the Metro-Vickers trial, was a type of sabotage defined by Article 58.

[B43] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Lavrenty Beria investigated this man for packing seven rail carriages full of German valuables in the Trophy Affair, an affront this man repaid by helping convict Beria of treason. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georgy Zhukov [or Georgy Konstantinovich Zhukov]):
    Name this decorated general who defeated the Kwantung Army early in his career at the Battle of Khalkhin Gol, and then directed the occupation of Bessarabia.
  Part 2 (ans: Battle of Stalingrad):
    Zhukov is better known for unleashing Operation Uranus during this battle, which encircled the 6th army, ending with the capture of Friedrich Paulus in the namesake city, which the Germans failed to hold.
  Part 3 (ans: Lazar Kaganovich [or Lazar Moiseyevich Kaganovich]):
    Zhukov later defended Khrushchev against the members of the Anti-Party Group, which included this Ukrainian Jew, who was dubbed the "Wolf of the Kremlin" in a biography by Stuart Kahan. He was also known as the "Iron Lazar" for his ruthlessness as one of Stalin's deputies.

[B44] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: During this battle, Hitler's hopes that promoting Friedrich Paulus to field marshal would prevent him from surrendering were dashed. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Stalingrad):
    Name this World War II battle, in which Soviet forces successfully defended a city on the Volga River named for the Soviet premier, turning the tide of the Eastern front and the war.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgy Zhukov):
    This Soviet commander organized the defenses at Stalingrad and planned the encircling counterattack there. He later led victorious forces at the Battle of Kursk, and personally commanded the final assault on Berlin.
  Part 3 (ans: Operation Winter Storm [or Unternehmen Wintergewitter]):
    Erich von Manstein oversaw this operation, an attempt by the German 4th Panzer Army to break the Soviet encirclement of the 6th Army. Its failure was followed by the final Soviet assault, Operation Ring.

[B45] 2013 VCU Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: The triumvirate of Jakub Berman, Hilary Minc, and Boleslaw Bierut ruled this country after the fall of Wladyslaw Gomulka. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: People's Republic of Poland [or Republic of Poland]):
    Name this country that was split in half by the Soviet Union and Germany in the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact.
  Part 2 (ans: Jewish people [or Jews]):
    In 1967, Gomulka purged Poland of these people. Following World War II, Stalin labeled a number of these people as "cosmopolitan" in his attempt to dictate the narrative of the "Great Patriotic War."
  Part 3 (ans: Bloodlands: Europe between Stalin and Hitler):
    Stalin's post-War anti-Semitic campaign is discussed in this book by Timothy Snyder. This book examines the fate of the title region under the rules of Stalin and Hitler.

[B46] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: In 1924, this country's August Uprising against Soviet rule was repressed; by 1956, the March 9 Massacre here targeted loyalists who demanded that Stalin's memory be honored. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Georgia):
    Name this SSR, which, as an independent country, was the location of the 2005 Rose Revolution.
  Part 2 (ans: the Khruschev thaw [or destalinization]):
    The 1956 revolt was a protest of this initiative, which included relaxations on censorship and the renaming of places such as Mount Stalin and Stalingrad. It began with the delivery of the "secret speech."
  Part 3 (ans: Zhu De):
    One demand of the Georgian revolt was to meet with this visiting Chinese dignitary. This founder of the People's Liberation Army had given a speech defending Stalin.

[B47] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This phrase originated from an article in Pravda in which a certain politican claimed that his followers believed that "We can achieve anything!" and that "there is nothing we can't do." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dizzy With Success"):
    Identify this phrase used in an article to stop the process of collectivization, because many of a certain politician's followers, have reached the title state of accomplishment.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin):
    This man used the term "dizzy with success" in some speeches and articles. He was a leader of the Soviet Union known for his purges and having his lackeys doctor photos.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Bukharin):
    Stalin was originally allied with this man, before he had this author of Imperialism and World Economy killed during the Great Purge.

[B48] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Nearly all the participants in the "Congress of the Victors" where killed during this program. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Purges [or Great Terror]):
    Name this program of the late 1930s that began with the Trial of the Sixteen. Sparked by the assassination of Kirov, the show trials of Kamenev and Zinoviev were part of this program.
  Part 2 (ans: Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Vissarionovich Stalin; or Ioseb Dzugashvili]):
    This leader of the Soviet Union ordered the Great Purge. Earlier his policies of collectivization and dekulakization led to famine in Ukraine.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikolai Ivanovich Yezhov):
    Stalin appointed this man as head of the NKVD prior to the Great Purge. This successor of Yagoda claimed that a "center of centers," or a master conspiracy against the USSR, existed.

[B49] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: Under the rule of this man, the Ukraine underwent a systematic famine called the Holodomor. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Josef Stalin):
    Name this Soviet leader who created the Doctors' Plot in an attempt to create anti-Semitic tendencies and oversaw the publication of Falsifiers of History. He ruled the Soviet Union during World War Two.
  Part 2 (ans: secret police forces [accept equivalents; accept state security forces; prompt on "intelligence agencies"]):
    Stalin appointed Lavrentiy Beria to lead the NKVD, which was this type of organization. Vladimir Lenin's Cheka was also this type of organization.
  Part 3 (ans: socialism in one country [prompt on partial answer]):
    With the help of Nikolai Bukharin, Stalin adopted this policy which specified that the Soviet Union must focus on internal development before trying to focus on the goal of spreading communism to the rest of the world.

[B50] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The losers in this battle drove the defenders from Baintsagan Hill, but were quickly encircled by a completely mechanized force after funneling across a single pontoon bridge. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Battle of Khalkhin Gol [or Nomonhan Incident]):
    Name this battle won by Grigory Shtern that ended government support for Matsuoka Yosuke's Northern Expansion Group in favor of a naval focus.
  Part 2 (ans: Georgy Zhukov):
    This Russian general applied the strategies of mechanized warfare he learned at Khalkhin Gol to battles on the Eastern Front of World War II, successfully conquering Bessarabia and organizing the defense of Leningrad.
  Part 3 (ans: Battle of Stalingrad):
    Zhukov helped plan Operation Uranus, encircling and forcing the surrender of the Nazi 6th Army, during the long fight over this southern Russian city on the Volga.

[B51] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer these questions about heroic Soviet urban renaming practices.
  Part 1 (ans: Stalingrad):
    Volgograd was the site of one of the bloodiest battles in human history, lasting from August 1942 to February 1943, when it was known by this name
  Part 2 (ans: Vyacheslav Molotov):
    The city of Perm was renamed for this Soviet leader, whom Stalin picked to lead the Soviet project to develop an atomic bomb and who gave his name to a plan to rebuild Europe that competed with the Marshall Plan.
  Part 3 (ans: Bishkek):
    This city located west of Issyk Kul was named for Mikhail Frunze until it was changed back in 1991. It is now a national capital.
