=== STOCK CLUES: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ===
Tossup questions: 17 found, 96 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o (The novel is A River Between.)
  - In a novel by this author, projects like a school for circumcised children prevent the protagonist from stopping the growing influence of Kiama.
  - In a novel by this author, villagers who travel to the capital to petition for help during a drought are unable to find anyone willing to help the sick child Joseph.
  - This author detailed the failed attempt of Waiyaki to become a savior who unites two villages separated by a river.
  - A fire mentioned at the beginning of one of this author's novels is revealed to have been caused by a schoolteacher angry at seeing Karega enter and leave a brothel.
  - At the climax of one of this author's novels, Mugo steps forward to admit he was the one who betrayed the Mau Mau fighter Kihika.
  - For 10 points, name this Kenyan author of A Grain of Wheat and Petals of Blood. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi ("GOO-ghee") [accept Ngugi wa Thiong'o; accept Ngugi wa Mirii; accept James Ngugi; prompt on James by asking "what first name does that author currently use?"] (The play in the first line is The Trial of Dedan Kimathi.)
  - With a female writer, an author with this first name wrote a play in which an orange seller helps two children hide a gun in a piece of bread to smuggle to a man on trial. [PWR]
  - In a play by two authors with this first name, a man uses a sword to chase a family trying to convert him to Christianity out of his home, and chastises his daughter for showing off her new platform shoes. [PWR]
  - Wrestling with the Devil, by an author with this first name, discusses a play in which (*) Ahab and Jezebel buy out a farm to build an insecticide factory.
  - Two authors with this first name were jailed after writing the 1977 play I Will Marry When I Want.
  - In a novel by an author with this first name, Mugo betrays the resistance fighter Kihika to the British.
  - For 10 points, give this first name of the Kenyan author of A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T3] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ("nʼgoo-gee wah thee-ON-go") [or James Ngugi; prompt on Thiong'o] (I Will Marry When I Want was co-written by Ngugi wa Mirii. The venue is the Kamiriithu Community Education and Cultural Centre.)
  - In a play by this author, a poor guest asks a rich couple for water to wash down the beans and maize she just ate, but instead of pouring water from the jug on the table, the rich woman has a servant fetch some from a pigsty.
  - In that play by this author, two different scenes open in homes that have pictures of a hairy Nebuchadnezzar as an animal and a board with the phrase "Christ Is the Head of This House." An open-air theater at a community center was burned down by police for performing a play co-written by this author and an author with the same name.
  - In a play by this author, a deed to a one-and-a-half acre plot of land is put up for collateral by Kiguunda  to pay for a wedding.
  - This author was imprisoned for his play I Will Marry When I Want.
  - For 10 points, name this author who justified his use of Gikuyu in Decolonizing the Mind. [GIVE]

[T4] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]
  - This author's daughter wrote the 2014 novel The Fall of Saints.
  - A suicidal woman receives an invitation signed by Satan to choose "seven experts in theft and robbery" in a novel that this author wrote on toilet paper, Devil on the Cross. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, a beggar and protestor jointly grift as a sorcerer who manages to heal the voice of The Ruler, dictator of the fictional nation of (*) Aburiria. [PWR]
  - A character breaks his left arm in a race on the day of Uhuru in a novel by this author in which General R. fills in when Mugo refuses to give a speech.
  - The town of Ilmorog appears in two sequential novels whose switch in languages is explained in this author's essay Decolonising the Mind.
  - For 10 points, name this Gikuyu-language author of Wizard of the Crow and A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T5] 2023 CLEAN (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer:  Ngugi wa Thiong'o
  - In one play by this author, a character is enraged because a company wants to buy his land to build a factory for manufacturing insecticide. [PWR]
  - A group of people in a play by this author sing "The Satan of poverty / Must be crushed!" A central character in a play by this author constantly stares at a title deed that is framed on the wall. [PWR]
  - This author described Remi, who causes Thoni to commit suicide, in The Black Hermit. [PWR]
  - This author described the rich couple Ahab and Jezebel and the girl Gathoni in (*) I Will Marry When I Want . [PWR]
  - An essay by this author calls the use of English by African writers a "cultural bomb" and advocates switching to writing in Gikuyu.
  - The essay collection Decolonizing the Mind is by, for 10 points, what author who also wrote novels like A Grain of Wheat and Petals of Blood in his native Kenya? [GIVE]

[T6] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ("GOO-ghee wah tee-ON-go") [or James Ngugi]
  - In a novel by this author, every television screen in a country splits into seven pieces after a club is thrown at a cameraman.
  - In another novel by this author, a plane crash in a village miraculously only kills a donkey before one of the protagonists is arrested by Inspector Godfrey.
  - A novel by this author depicts a pregnant Ruler who gives birth to Baby Democracy in the Free Republic of Aburiria.
  - In another novel by this author, Abdulla's bar commercializes a new drink made from the theng'eta plant and Wanja's brothel in New Ilmorog is burned down by Munira.
  - This author self-translated his novel Wizard of the Crow into English from Gikuyu.
  - For 10 points, the Mau Mau Rising is depicted in Petals of Blood by what Kenyan author? [GIVE]

[T7] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ("nʼGOO-gee wah thee-ON-go") [accept James Ngugi, but remind players that he rejected this name as colonialist]
  - An essay by this author describes qualifying for a conference having only published two short stories, "The Fig Tree" and "The Return." A collection by this author ends with a chapter titled, "The Quest for Relevance," and describes colonizers inflicting a "cultural bomb" that "annihilate[s] a people's belief in their names." This author was imprisoned after an open-air performance of one of his plays at a community center in Kamirithu.
  - In an essay, this author describes his decision to stop writing fiction in hegemonic colonial languages like English.
  - This author created a protagonist named Mugo who betrays the Mau Mau Uprising.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the play I Will Marry When I Want, the essay collection Decolonising the Mind and novels like A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o (GOO-gee wah thee-ON-go) [or James Ngugi]
  - An essay by this author describes how teachers at school would find out which students had broken a certain rule each day by having them pass around a button when they broke the rule.
  - The goal of building a school for expelled village children causes a rift between Waiyaki and his village in a novel by this author.
  - A novel by this author ends with the protagonist burning down his ex-lover's brothel.
  - Munira works as a teacher after moving to Ilmorog in a novel by this author that borrows its title from Derek Walcott's poem "The Swamp." This author discusses how colonial schools punished students for speaking Gikuyu instead of English in the essay collection Decolonising the Mind.
  - For 10 points, name this Kenyan author of A Grain of Wheat and Petals of Blood. [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi [or Ngugi wa Thiong'o; or James Ngugi; or Mukoma wa Ngugi]
  - In a 2018 study, an author from this family identified Samuel Johnson as the architect of an "English metaphysical empire." An author from this family described the ordeals faced by 99 suitors in their quest to become the progenitors of nine clans in a 2020 verse epic, for which he became the first person nominated for the International Man Booker as both author and translator. [PWR]
  - In a comic novel, that author from this family wrote about the quest of a despot to fund the construction of a (*) "superwonder" of the world called Marching to Heaven. [PWR]
  - Mukoma, a member of this family who wrote The Rise of the African Novel, is the son of a writer who explained his decision to abandon writing in English in Decolonizing the Mind.
  - That author with this surname wrote about Mugo's betrayal of the resistance fighter Kihika in his best-known novel.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the Kenyan author of A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T10] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ('ung-goh-gay wa thee-ong-oh') [accept James Ngugi, but remind the player that the author rejected that name as colonialist]
  - In a play by this author, the protagonist's university education is compared to a green seed being planted; that protagonist returns home after leaving his lover Jane at university. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author tries to mend a chair before a visit by an insecticide factory owner named Ahab and his wife Jezebel. [PWR]
  - A play by this author ends with a family losing their (*) one-and-a-half acre plot of land, leaving Kiguunda destitute. [PWR]
  - The state imprisoned this author after that play's performance at the Kamiriithu Educational Centre.
  - This author of The Black Hermit described their decision to write in their native language rather than English while in prison after writing the play I Will Marry When I Want.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Decolonising the Mind, the Kenyan author of novels such as Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]
  - In one of this author's plays, singers gather in the protagonist's yard singing that Satan "must be crushed," which prompts a rant about new churches asking for money; another character compares "the alcoholic of hard liquor" to "the alcoholic of the rosary" before singing "the trumpet of the workers is finally blown!" In that play, Jezebel and Ahab trick two characters into selling a title deed to finance a wedding.
  - In another of this author's plays, Thoni kills herself because she believes her husband will reject her when he returns.
  - This author depicted Remi in (*) The Black Hermit and Kiguunda and Wangeci in I Will Marry When I Want, for which he was imprisoned.
  - He also wrote a novel in which Mumbi gives birth to Karanja's child while her husband Gikonyo is in detention camp during the Mau Mau Rebellion.
  - For 10 points, name this Kenyan author of A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T12] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o (GOO-gee wah thee-ON-go) [or James Ngugi]
  - In a novel by this author, the Siriana school becomes much more oppressive after its former student Chui comes back to lead it.
  - Characters in a novel by this author brew a drink from the Thang'eta plant to celebrate a good harvest, and another character in that novel commits suicide by jumping into a quarry.
  - A donkey is the only victim when a plane crashes into the village in that novel by this author, which is renamed "New" after a railroad is built through it.
  - This author created a character who burns down his former lover Wanja's brothel, named Munira.
  - This author explained his reasons for abandoning the English language for Gikuyu in Decolonizing the Mind.
  - For 10 points, name this Kenyan writer of Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T13] 2018 Historature (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]
  - Gayatri Spivak's essay "In Praise of a Friend" is dedicated to this author.
  - After drinking a banned ancient drink, a character in a novel by this author confesses his love for Mukami, who committed suicide because her father did not approve of their love. [PWR]
  - A one-legged character created by this author makes a living by reselling items seized from a garbage pile on his donkey cart, takes care of the orphan Joseph, and leads a (*) march to confront his district's member of parliament. [PWR]
  - This author created a fictional city where surveyors planning to create a Trans-African Highway die in a plane crash.
  - That city, Ilmorog, is home to the Theng'eta Brewery where Chui, Kimeria and Mzigo burned to death.
  - In a novel that borrows its title from a Derek Walcott poem, this author wrote of Karega, who burns down the brothel where Wanja works.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Petals of Blood. [GIVE]

[T14] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or: James Ngugi]
  - The protagonist of one of this author's plays is pressured into marrying his brother's widow, but has an affair with a woman named Jane in the city where he works at an oil company.
  - In that play, Remi vacillates over whether or not to return to his tribal village. [PWR]
  - The businessman Ahab and his wife Jezebel visit the protagonist of another of his plays, who is protective of the title deed to his one-and-a-half acre plot of land. [PWR]
  - That play was performed at the (*) Kamiriithu Community Education and Cultural Centre, which was subsequently burned down by the police.
  - His play about Kiguunda and his daughter Gathoni led to his imprisonment.
  - For 10 points, name this author of the plays The Black Hermit and I Will Marry When I Want, who also wrote novels such as A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T15] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]
  - In a novel by this author, two advisors enlarge their eyes and ears to better see and hear dissidents.
  - In that novel, American doctors wish to patent a mysterious illness contracted by the Ruler, who wishes to build the monumental skyscraper Marching to Heaven.
  - During a drought in a novel by this author, Abdullah uses a catapult to obtain food while villagers walk to the city.
  - In that novel by this man, Munira incidentally kills three brewery directors by burning down Wanja's brothel.
  - In a third novel by this man, Mumbi becomes pregnant while her husband is in prison, Karanja allies with the British forces, and Mugo confesses to betraying the revolutionary Kihika.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Wizard of the Crow, who set Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat in his native Kenya. [GIVE]

[T16] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]
  - In one of this author's plays, a land deed framed on the wall repeatedly falls to the ground, foreshadowing its eventual loss.
  - That play ends with Wangeci and Kiguunda losing their land after Kioi breaks off his son's engagement to their daughter.
  - In an essay, this author denounced the use of English by African writers, arguing that it was a "cultural bomb," but continued to translate his new novels into English.
  - He was imprisoned for his play I Will Marry When I Want, and he described the murder of District Officer Robson in a novel about the traitor Mugo.
  - For 10 points, name this Kenyan author of "Decolonising the Mind" and A Grain of Wheat. [GIVE]

[T17] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ngugi wa Thiong'o
  - This author wrote a novel in which the potency of a certain drink, known as the "drink of three letters," is described by the equation P=3T. [PWR]
  - A surprisingly positive note by one character at the end of that novel explains that a corrupt bureaucrat was gunned down in his car while waiting for his chauffeur-bodyguard to bring him rent. [PWR]
  - Only a donkey is killed when a plane crashes into the setting of one of this author's novels, which ends with a man (*) burning down a brothel after seeing another man patronize it. [PWR]
  - Another character created by him killed District Officer Robson but got betrayed by the protagonist, which led to his hanging.
  - This author wrote about Wanja who is idolized by Munira in one novel and told of the betrayal of Kihika by Mugo in another.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat, both of which are set in his native Kenya. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this play, a romantic song and dance sequence involving Kiguunda and Wangeci ("WAHN-geh-chee") segues into protestors singing "freedom." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: I Will Marry When I Want [or Ngaahika Ndeenda]):
    Name this play in which Gathoni ("GAH-thoe-nee") is abandoned by her upper class lover. This play's political themes led to the arrest of its two co-authors, who share a common last name.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]):
    Kikuyu song and dance inspired this co-author of I Will Marry When I Want. His novel Petals of Blood is set just after Kenya's independence.
  Part 3 (ans: relevance [accept "The Quest for Relevance"]):
    Ngugi wrote that African literature could achieve this quality by including oral traditions. Efforts to center Kenyan curriculums around African texts are discussed in a chapter of Decolonising the Mind titled for the "quest" for this quality.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The biographer Flora Veit-Wild originally published a set of poems by an author from this country, which she claimed she was "the inspiration or catalyst" for. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zimbabwe [or Republic of Zimbabwe]):
    Name this country home to an author whose Amelia poems were collected posthumously in Cemetery of Mind. That author from this country wrote Black Sunlight and the short story collection The House of Hunger.
  Part 2 (ans: English(Decolonizing the Mind is by Ngugi wa Thiong'o.)):
    Dambudzo Marechera wrote his Amelia poems in this language, which he says he took to "as a duck takes to water." Drew Shaw contrasted Marechera's view of this language with that of the author of Decolonizing the Mind.
  Part 3 (ans: sonnets):
    Reading Heinrich Heine inspired Marechera to choose the name Amelia for his poems in this form. The line "sobs!" at the end of one of the Amelia poems breaks from this typically 14-line form.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The cast sings "Awake, you who are asleep! / We are winnowing right from wrong!" in this language at the end of Hassan Sheikh Mumin's play Leopard Among the Women. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Somali [or Soomaali; or Af Soomaali]):
    Name this language whose long oral tradition influenced the 1905 poem "Afbakayle." An exiled author who grew up speaking this language wrote the novels Maps and From a Crooked Rib.
  Part 2 (ans: arranged marriage [or marrying or having a wedding or matrimony; accept I Will Marry When I Want] (I Will Marry When I Want is by Ngugi wa Thiong'o and Ngugi wa Mirii.)):
    Coercion into performing this action is central to Nuruddin Farah's novel From a Crooked Rib and Faarax M. J. Cawl's Somali novel Ignorance Is the Enemy of Love. A Kikuyu-language play is titled in English for doing this "When I Want."
  Part 3 (ans: dictators [accept dictator novel; accept Variations on the Theme of an African Dictatorship]):
    Farah also wrote a trilogy about an "African" leader of this type. One of these people known as The Ruler assumes control of the setting of Ngugi's Wizard of the Crow, part of a genre more common in Latin American fiction.

[B4] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This politician cited the writings of Anton Wilhelm Amo, who was from the same ethnic group, to argue that idealism is "enmeshed in contradictions" and suffers from a "God-complex." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kwame Nkrumah ("en-KROO-mah") [or Francis Kwame Nkrumah; accept Nkrumaism]):
    Name this politician and thinker who developed, and sometimes names, a scientific socialist philosophy called Consciencism ("conscience-ism").
  Part 2 (ans: decolonization [or word forms like decolonizing; accept Decolonising the Mind (by Ngugi wa Thiong'o)]):
    Nkrumah described Consciencism as a "Philosophy and Ideology for" this process, whose "conceptual" form was coined by Kwasi Wiredu. An essay titled for this process advocates the Kikuyu language and calls English a "cultural bomb."
  Part 3 (ans: equality [accept egalitarianism]):
    Nkrumah described Consciencism as drawing on African roots of targeting this broad status, which he contrasted with oligarchy. Advocates of this status debate whether it should be "of outcome" or "of opportunity."

[B5] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Three ministers in this novel have their eyes, ears, and tongue enhanced to better serve their leader. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wizard of the Crow [or Murogi wa Kagogo]):
    Name this satirical novel in which the unnamed Ruler of the Free Republic of Aburiria orders the construction of a massive tower named "Marching to Heaven." Kamiti and Nyawira moonlight as the title figure of this novel.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ("goo-gee wah tee-AHN-goh") [or James Ngugi]):
    This Kenyan author of Wizard of the Crow also wrote the novels Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 3 (ans: Decolonising the Mind: the Politics of Language in African Literature):
    After writing Petals of Blood, Ngugi switched from using English to Kikuyu, a decision he outlined in this essay collection. This collection compares the English language to an imperialistic "cultural bomb."

[B6] 2024 HILTON (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Shaw Henderson meets the protagonist of one play during one of these events in which he is visited by a banker, a priest, a businessman, and a politician. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: trials):
    Name these events, one of which ends after a character throws a pebble at one man's head and a halo of light appears around it.
  Part 2 (ans: beating their partner (accept wifebeating, or other similar answers)):
    The aforementioned Trial of Brother Jero occurs after Jero gives Chume permission to perform this activity. This action causes Willie to lose his dance partner in Master Harold... and the Boys.
  Part 3 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o (accept James Ngugi)):
    This author wrote The Trial of Dedan Kimathi in Kikuyu after he made his famed switch from English. His better known plays include The Black Hermit and I Will Marry When I Want.

[B7] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: After emigrating, Ochola is forced to return to this country to cure himself of a mystical skin disease that causes warts in a novel from this country, The Promised Land. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Kenya (That novel is A Grain of Wheat by Ngugi wa Thiong'o.)):
    Name this country. The protagonist of a novel set on the day of this country's independence confesses that he betrayed an independence fighter who killed District Officer Robson.
  Part 2 (ans: English):
    The author of The Promised Land, Grace Ogot, was one of the first female Kenyan writers published in this language, along with Charity Waciuma. Ngugi wa Thiong'o described this language as a "cultural bomb" in "Decolonizing the Mind."
  Part 3 (ans: daughters [accept Daughter of Mumbi; accept Daughters of Africa; prompt on children]):
    An autobiographical novel about the Mau Mau Rebellion by Waciuma is titled for one of these people of Mumbi. Works by Waciuma and Ogot were collected in a Margaret Busby-edited anthology titled for these people.

[B8] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A Maria W. Stewart quote provides the title for an anthology of literature by the Daughters of this place edited by Margaret Busby. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Africa [accept Daughters of Africa; accept "How to Write About Africa"] (The essay is by Binyavanga Wainaina.)):
    Name this place that is the subject of an essay that insists that animals "must be treated as well rounded, complex characters" and ends with the sarcastic declaration "because you care."
  Part 2 (ans: oral literature [or oral tradition or orature or folk literature; accept storytelling or telling stories; accept answers indicating the stories are spoken or communicated by word of mouth; accept singing or by music]):
    This type of literature is collected in Daughters of Africa in addition to written literature. Griots ("GREE-ohs") and bards communicate stories in this manner.
  Part 3 (ans: Ngugi [accept Wanjiku wa Ngugi; accept Ngugi wa Thiong'o or James Ngugi] (Wanjiku wa Ngugi is Ngugi wa Thiong'o's daughter.)):
    Busby's updated New Daughters of Africa includes "Hundred Acres of Marshland," a story by an author with this surname. Another author with this surname wrote about Mugo betraying the freedom fighter Kihika in A Grain of Wheat.

[B9] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: M. Keith Baker used Buchi Emecheta's The Joys of Motherhood and Tsitsi Dangarembga's Nervous Conditions as examples for an introduction to African examples of this form written in English. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the novel):
    Name this dominant European prose form taken up by African authors in the colonial era. "Epistolary" examples of this form framed as exchanges of letters were popular in the 18th century.
  Part 2 (ans: Shaka kaSenzangakhona [or Shaka Zulu; accept Chaka; accept Emperor Shaka the Great]):
    Mazisi Kunene rejected the form of the European novel for a verse epic about this person. Missionaries were reluctant to publish Thomas Mafolo's historical novel about the rise and fall of this person.
  Part 3 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]):
    This author wrote that their novel Devil on the Cross had accomplished "the appropriation of the novel into the oral tradition." This author of the novel-in-verse The Perfect Nine also wrote Wizard of the Crow.

[B10] 2023 Black History Month Packet (2023) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: In an essay about this language and the tribe using it, the author describes knowing the word "lacustrine" and "defeating [his] geography teacher in an argument about the longest river in the world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gikuyu [or Kikuyu or Agikuyu] (Note: the essay collection is Decolonising the Mind by Ngugi wa Thiong'o)):
    Name this language discussed in that essay, where the author describes being inspired to change his name by a different essay collection that asserts English is a "cultural bomb" and advocates the use of this language.
  Part 2 (ans: Kenneth Binyavanga Wainaina):
    This essayist of "In Gikuyu, for Gikuyu, of Gikuyu" wrote a "lost chapter" of his memoir One Day I Will Write About This Place entitled "I am a Homosexual, Mum," and founded the magazine Kwani?.
  Part 3 (ans: Africa):
    Wainaina advises the reader to adopt "a sad I-expected-so-much tone" in a satirical essay that ends by suggesting "Always end your book with Nelson Mandela saying something about rainbows or renaissances. Because you care,"entitled "How to Write About [this place]."

[B11] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Description acceptable. After he is sent to the hospital following a foot race at a celebration for this event, Gikonyo finally manages to forgive his wife and accept her out-of-wedlock child as his own. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kenya's independence from the United Kingdom [accept equivalent descriptions; accept Uhuru no Kazi; accept Jamhuri Day; accept Madaraka Day or self-rule because even though the novel doesn't refer to it as such the event/day are more or less equivalent; reject "Mau Mau Rebellion"]):
    Name this event celebrated in the novel A Grain of Wheat, when Mugo mysteriously refuses to make a speech and then later steps forward to reveal that he betrayed the hero Kihika.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    This author wrote about Kenya's independence in A Grain of Wheat and also wrote the novel Petals of Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: A General Theory of Oblivion [accept Teoria Geral do Esquecimento]):
    In this other novel, Ludo bricks herself into her apartment in Luanda on the brink of Angola's independence and lives for 30 years off growing vegetables and catching pigeons on the balcony.

[B12] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author attacks academic jargon and "poor theory" in an essay collection advocating a post-national study of literature, what this author terms "Globalectics." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi] (That essay is Decolonizing the Mind.)):
    Name this critic and author who, in another essay, defends his decision to stop writing in English.
  Part 2 (ans: the devil [or Satan; or Lucifer]):
    After abandoning English, Ngugi used prison-issued toilet paper to write a Gikuyu novel titled for [this figure] on the Cross. Daniel Webster defends a farmer against this figure in a Stephen Vincent Benet story.
  Part 3 (ans: Abdulrazak Gurnah (That novel is Paradise.)):
    This author and professor has often written on Ngugi's work, including in a 1991 monograph on Matigari. In a novel by this author, Yusuf's father sells him into service in a caravan before the outbreak of World War I.

[B13] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This country is home to an extremely successful romantic comedy troupe called Heartstrings [this country], while a one-act set here centers on the ex-prostitute Mariana's attempts to invent new initiation rituals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: (Republic of) Kenya [or Jamhuri ya Kenya]):
    Name this country home to the author of The Scar, Rebeka Njau, as well as to Francis Imbuga and Micere Mugo. Its government shut down a 1977 play where Ahab Kioi ("KEH-oy") uses a church wedding to swindle Kiguunda ("keh-GOHN-duh") out of his land.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ("GOH-geh wuh thee-YONG-ah")):
    That play, I Will Marry When I Want, was co-written by this Kenyan author of A Grain of Wheat and Petals of Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: Mother, Sing for Me [or Maitu Njugira ("MYE-toh JOO-guh-ruh")]):
    The Kenyan government later shut down Ngugi's theater troupe in 1982 over this musical he co-wrote with its amateur cast. This play dramatized resistance to the Kipande forced labor system in the twenties and thirties.

[B14] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, a dissident movement known as "The Voice of the People" protests a project by distributing plastic snakes among the general public. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Wizard of the Crow):
    Name this 2004 novel set in the fictional African country of Aburiria in which Kamiti and Nyawara adopt the title persona to disrupt the Ruler's attempts to build a modern-day Tower of Babel.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]):
    This author of Wizard of the Crow also depicted Kenya's fight for independence in A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 3 (ans: George Lamming (The novel is In the Castle of My Skin.)):
    In his essay collection Homecoming, Ngugi called this author the prime example of "peasant revolt in a white-dominated world." This author is best known for a semi-autobiographical novel that begins with a flood striking G's village on his ninth birthday, and ends with him leaving his home country for Trinidad.

[B15] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A character in this play drives away his boss and his boss's business partner with a sword when they accuse him of living in sin due to him not marrying in a church. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: I Will Marry When I Want [or Ngaahika Ndeenda]):
    Name this play in which Kiguunda's daughter Gathoni weds John, resulting in a chain of events culminating in the loss of Kiguunda's most prized possession, a one-and-a-half acres of land.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]):
    I Will Marry When I Want was co-written by this Kenyan author of Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 3 (ans: Theater for Development [or TfD; prompt on Theater of the Oppressed]):
    Ngugi's play Maitu Njugira is cited as an early example of this genre of drama popular in sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America, which often involves audience participation and improvisation. The three-word name for this movement references its common themes of economic and political justice.

[B16] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Two men in this novel who compete for Mumbi's affections participate in a foot race, resulting in a broken arm for one of the men. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Grain of Wheat):
    Name this novel, in which Mugo removes suspicion from Karanja by confessing to betraying a fighter who killed District Officer Robson.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o ("GOO-gee wah thee-ON-go") [or James Thiong'o Ngugi]):
    A Grain of Wheat was written by this Kenyan author, who also wrote Weep Not, Child and Petals of Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: prison [or jail; or equivalents]):
    Ngugi wrote his novel Devil on the Cross on toilet paper in one of these locations. Sozaboy author Ken Saro-Wiwa documented his time in one of these places in A Month and a Day, and was executed after spending a year in one of them.

[B17] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: David Damrosch wrote a book whose title asks, "What is" this subject, and he edited the "Routledge Companion" to it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: world literature [accept weltliteratur or What Is World Literature? or The Routledge Companion to World Literature or Against World Literature]):
    Name this subject of a 2013 debate touched off by Emily Apter's book "against" it. The German word from which this term derives was coined in a conversation with Johann Eckermann to describe how poetry is becoming the "universal possession of mankind."
  Part 2 (ans: translation [accept word forms such as translating; accept more specific answers such as translating into English]):
    Apter's Against World Literature claims that Goethe's idea of world literature ignores the politics of works that can't fully be subjected to this general process. Wole Soyinka performed this task on Daniel Fagunwa's Yoruba language work to bring it to an Anglophone audience.
  Part 3 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [accept James Ngugi]):
    The n+1 article published with Apter's book cites this author's supposedly fading powers after his university appointment as an example of the university insulating "World Lit from the world it wants to describe and address" and criticizes his 2006 book The Wizard of the Crow.

[B18] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In Thomas Mofolo's most famous novel, this man is corrupted by the sorcerer Isanusi. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Shaka Zulu [or Chaka]):
    Name this historical figure who is also the subject of an epic poem passed down through oral tradition and compiled by Mazisi Kunene.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    Kunene wrote in Zulu and translated his own works into English, similar to how this Kenyan author of Petals of Blood wrote Wizard of the Crow and other late works in Kikuyu before translating them into English.
  Part 3 (ans: Sol Plaatje [or Solomon Thekisho Plaatje]):
    This author attempted to preserve his Sotho dialect by publishing Sechuana Proverbs and Their European Equivalents. He also wrote about Zulu conquest in his novel Mhudi: An Epic of Native Life a Hundred Years Ago.

[B19] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify some authors noted for their criticisms of colonialism, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Multatuli [prompt on Eduard Dekker]):
    This pseudonymous Dutch author is best known for his novel Max Havelaar, in which the title character fights the corrupt Cultivation System in Dutch occupied Java.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    This Kenyan author of Petals of Blood and A Grain of Wheat abandoned the English language and returned to writing in his native Kikuyu, producing novels like The Wizard of the Crow.
  Part 3 (ans: Chinua Achebe):
    This author called out Conrad's Heart of Darkness in the essay "An Image of Africa", though he is perhaps better known for Things Fall Apart.

[B20] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A novel by this author takes its name from a line in Derek Walcott's poem, "The Swamp," but was originally titled Ballad of the Barmaid. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    Name this Kenyan author who was arrested the same year he published Petals of Blood. He also wrote a novel about Mugo, who betrayed Kihika: A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 2 (ans: Abdulla):
    This character from Petals of Blood who lost his leg in the Mau Mau Rebellion owns a shop that employs the beautiful Wanja. His beloved donkey is killed when it is struck by a crashing plane. Poor guy.
  Part 3 (ans: English):
    After publishing his essay "Decolonizing the Mind," Ngugi refused to write any of his works in this language, instead sticking to Gikuyu. Nuruddin Farah and Peter Abrahams are other African writers who write in this language.

[B21] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The advice "Always end your book with Nelson Mandela saying something about rainbows or renaissances. Because you care," concludes a satirical Granta article by an author from this country. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Kenya [or Jamhuri ya Kenya]):
    Name this home of Binyavanga Wainaina (BIN-yah-VAHN-guh WAY-nay-nuh), a former British colony that served as the setting for memoirs by Beryl Markham, Elspeth Huxley, and Isak Dinesen. It's also the setting of the crime novel Black Star Nairobi.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi, if you're a colonialist]):
    Black Star Nairobi was written by Mukoma, the son of this titan of Kenyan literature. This author was imprisoned by Daniel Arap Moi after the premiere of his play I Will Marry When I Want.
  Part 3 (ans: The River Between):
    This novel, Ngugi's second, is set during the colonial period. It depicts the Kikuyu communities of Komeno and Makuyu, which are divided culturally by religion and physically by Honia, the title entity.

[B22] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Abdulla begins selling this substance after a plane crashes in the village and kills his donkey. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: theng'eta):
    Name this millet drink consumed by the denizens of the village of Ilmorog. At the beginning of the novel in which it appears, three owners of a factory where it is produced are burned to death, prompting an investigation by Inspector Godfrey.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]):
    Theng'eta appears in Petals of Blood, a novel by this Kenyan author of Wizard of the Crow. He urged fellow African writers not to use English in his essay collection Decolonizing the Mind.
  Part 3 (ans: Derek Walcott [or Derek Alton Walcott]):
    Petals of Blood takes its title from "The Swamp", a poem by this author of the collection Sea Grapes. He mused on "the leprosy of empire" and mentioned the "disjecta membra" of the title place in his poem "Ruins of a Great House".

[B23] 2014 VCU Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this play sagely remarks "A man brags about his penis, however small" after his daughter appears wearing platform shoes and lipstick. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: I Will Marry When I Want [or Ngaahika Ndeenda: Ithaako ria ngerekano]):
    Name this play, originally written in Kikuyu, in which Kiguunda ultimately loses his land and Gathoni makes the title declaration before wedding the son of a shoe factory owner.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    I Will Marry When I Want was authored by two Kenyan authors with this last. The more famous author with this name also wrote Grain of Wheat and Petals of Blood.
  Part 3 (ans: the title deed):
    This object is an important symbol in I Will Marry When I Want. It portentously falls off the wall on the first entrance of Ahab and Jezebel.

[B24] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about 21st century African literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie):
    This author's most recent novel, Americanah, documents the struggles between Ifemelu and Obinze, two teenagers who fell in love and move to the U.S. She has also written the short story collection The Thing Around Your Neck.
  Part 2 (ans: James Ngugi or Ngugi wa Thiong'o):
    Ever since this author abandoned English to produce books in his native Kikuyu tongue, he has written a fantasy novel set in Aburiria titled Wizard of the Crow; his works in English include A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 3 (ans: Ben Okri):
    This magical realist wrote about a prince who journeys to find ultimate mysteries in his novel Starbook. He had earlier written a novel about a "spirit child" named Azaro in The Famished Road.

[B25] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel includes Inspector Godfrey's investigation of the burning of Wanja's brothel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Petals of Blood):
    Name this novel centering on Munira, a schoolmaster arrested in Ilmorog in connection with the fire.
  Part 2 (ans: Ngugi wa Thiong'o [or James Ngugi]):
    Petals of Blood was written by this Kenyan author who wrote about the ramifications of the death of the freedom fighter Kihika in A Grain of Wheat.
  Part 3 (ans: Wizard of the Crow [or Murogi wa Kogogo]):
    In 2006, Ngugi wrote this novel about the tyranny of The Ruler in the Free Republic Aburiria. It is his first novel in his native Gikuyu.
