=== STOCK CLUES: Zen Buddhism ===
Tossup questions: 10 found, 59 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 25 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Buddhism [accept Zen Buddhism or Tibetan Buddhism] (The second clue is about "Smokey the Bear Sutra" by Gary Snyder.)
  - Converts to this religion such as Anne Waldman founded the School of Disembodied Poetics.
  - One poem states that a figure in this religion who represents the "Great Sun" will show up in America in his "true form of Smokey the Bear." This religion inspired the title of a poem that opens, "I'm an old man now, and a lonesome man in Kansas." This religion's converts include the author of the collection Turtle Island, who was the basis for the character Japhy Ryder.
  - A name for texts in this religion inspired the titles of poems about a "Wichita vortex" and a "sunflower" written by Allen Ginsberg.
  - For 10 points, many Beat writers converted to what religion, which inspires the protagonists of Jack Kerouac's The Dharma Bums to try to reach enlightenment? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism or Mahayana Buddhism]
  - This tradition was divided into northern and southern schools that differed in emphasizing "gradual teachings" or "sudden teachings." A text by one leader of this tradition asks, if a mirror has no stand, where is the dust? [PWR]
  - The founder of this tradition said "you have attained my marrow" to his successor, who earlier cut off his arm to show devotion.
  - The first tea plants grew after the founder of this school fell asleep while (*) staring at a wall for seven years and cut off his eyelids. [PWR]
  - That "blue-eyed barbarian" who founded this school taught 18 forms to the monks of the Shaolin temple.
  - This tradition was founded by Bodhidharma , who is the subject of several entries in the Gateless Gate, a collection of koans .
  - For 10 points, name this school within Mahayana Buddhism that emphasizes meditation. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; until mentioned, prompt on Buddhism or Mahayana Buddhism]
  - In a narrative text from this religion, a spiritual leader is dissatisfied by an entry in a poetry contest that compares the mind to a bright mirror's stand. [PWR]
  - A teacher in this religion is held to be the author of The Treatise on the Two Entrances and Four Practices. [PWR]
  - A poem describing the stages of realization in this religion is called the Five Ranks. [PWR]
  - The founder of a school of this religion wrote the Bendowa in which he promoted the practice of (*) zazen. [PWR]
  - Students of this religion memorize "capping phrases" as fixed answers to questions used for philosophical understanding in this religion, such as what the sound of one hand clapping is.
  - Practitioners of this religion engage in a form of seated meditation and contemplate riddles known as koans.
  - For 10 points, name this form of Mahayana Buddhism practiced mostly in Japan. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Zen Buddhism [accept Chan Buddhism or Seon ("sun") Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism; prompt on Mahayana Buddhism]
  - A member of this religious tradition supposedly cut off his arm and presented it to his teacher when he tried to pacify his own mind.
  - That student of this tradition was named as his teacher's successor after he bowed, then sat down, when asked a question.
  - A legendary founder of this religious tradition allegedly cut off his eyelids to prevent himself from falling asleep while he stared at a wall for nine years.
  - A saying from this religious tradition describes the reply "mu" to a question about the nature of a dog.
  - This religious tradition produced the Blue Cliff Record and The Gateless Gate.
  - This religious tradition aims to achieve satori, or sudden enlightenment.
  - For 10 points, Bodhidharma, a subject of koans , started what Sino-Japanese derivative of Mahayana Buddhism? [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, or Japanese Buddhism]
  - Brice Marden used the subtitle "Early State" for several of his "studies" titled for this religion.
  - An artist from this religion completed a 50-foot painting of the four seasons and developed "broken" and "splashed" styles.
  - In one of his forays into visual arts, John Cage imitated artists of this religion by making a series of ten circular drawings depicting the catching and taming of a bull.
  - Those Ox-Herding Pictures were created by artists of this religion, who also invented a genre of portraits called sensho and a sculptural form in which rakes are used to create patterns in "rock gardens." Artists of this religious tradition such as Shubun  and Sesshu Toyo  introduced ink wash painting to Japan.
  - For 10 points, name this meditation-centric branch of Buddhism. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Buddhism [accept Hinayana Buddhism, Zen Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, or Tibetan Buddhism] (the novels referenced are Julie Otsuka's The Buddha in the Attic and George Saunders' Lincoln in the Bardo)
  - In a novel titled for a concept from this religion, slaves are referred to as "shards" and Roger Bevins III has a vision of going on a sea voyage and becoming a pharmacist's common-law husband after killing himself due to his homosexuality.
  - One novel about followers of this religion is titled for a statue of its founder left "in the attic" during a mass deportation.
  - Another novel utilizes a concept from this religion to depict Abraham Lincoln's grief at the death of his son, Willie and won George Saunders a Pulitzer Prize.
  - In a novel written by a follower of this religion, the character of Japhy Ryder is based on Gary Snyder, a poet who followed this religion.
  - Hugh Conway discovers a utopian city inhabited by immortal followers of this religion in James Hilton's novel Lost Horizon.
  - For 10 points, name this religion followed by the main characters of Jack Kerouac's The Dharma Bums. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; accept Rinzai school or Linji school before "Linji"; prompt on Mahayana Buddhism or Buddhism]
  - Some members of this religious tradition memorize a poem called "Song of the Jeweled Mirror," which presents metaphors for retaining teachings about "suchness." Five poems from this religious tradition that explain the relations of absolute and relative are called the Five Ranks. [PWR]
  - A teacher within this tradition explained the concepts of mystery in essence, mystery in words, and mystery in mystery as the Three Gates. [PWR]
  - That patriarch within this tradition is named (*) Linji, who is elsewhere known as Rinzai. [PWR]
  - Bodhidharma introduced this tradition to China.
  - In this tradition, one gains insight into one's own Buddha-nature, or kensho, during a sudden enlightenment called satori.
  - The saying "If you meet the Buddha, kill him" is one of the koan parables taught in, for 10 points, what tradition popular in Japan that emphasizes meditation? [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Answer: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism; prompt on Mahayana Buddhism]
  - A practitioner of this religion named Richard Baker resigned after it was revealed that he was having an affair with the wife of one of his followers, in one of a rash of sex scandals this religion faced in the 1980s.
  - This religious tradition was popularized in Germany by a Nazi psychotherapist who developed "initiation therapy," Karlfried Graf Durckheim.
  - Philip Kapleau founded a center for the study of this tradition in Rochester, New York and wrote a book about its "three pillars." This tradition was largely popularized in the west by D.
  - T.
  - Suzuki, who drew parallels between it and the thought of Meister Eckhart.
  - Books about the "way" and the "spirit" of this tradition were written by Alan Watts.
  - For 10 points, name this branch of Mahayana Buddhism whose practitioners ponder koans. [GIVE]

[T9] 2016 ACF Regionals (2016) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism]
  - One text central to this faith follows a man variously tracking, chasing, and riding the central animal, which then disappears.
  - This faith's founder cut off his eyelids to prevent himself from falling asleep while staring at a wall for nine years, and after his death left a single shoe for followers to discover in his grave.
  - One of this religion's scriptures is named after the Platform of its Sixth Patriarch, Huineng.
  - Achieving insight, or kensho, is the main goal of this religion's Rinzai sect.
  - Several statements important to this religion are collected in the Blue Cliff Record, which contains paradoxical statements known as koans.
  - For 10 points, name this Mahayana sect founded by Bodhidharma which is commonly practiced through meditation and is popular in Japan. [GIVE]

[T10] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: (Zen) koans [or gong'an; or kongan; accept collections/compilations/books of koans; prompt on "Buddhist stories" or general answers that do not give the specific term from Zen Buddhism]
  - The practice of focusing on specific words in these texts called huatou was introduced by Dahui Zonggao. [PWR]
  - The concept of mu is often illustrated in these texts, as in one that asks whether a dog has a certain nature. [PWR]
  - Wumen Huikai made famous commentaries on these texts, which are compiled in (*) The Gateless Gate and The Blue Cliff Record. [PWR]
  - Hands clapping without making sound are discussed in one of these texts, which are used to test students in the Soto, Obaku, and Rinzai schools.
  - For 10 points, name these stories used to teach Zen Buddhism. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 MRNA (2026) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: A text attributed to this monk combines the three doctrines of "nonabiding," "nonattribute," and "no-thought" to illustrate how enlightenment stems from transformation instead of stagnation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Dajian Huineng [or Hui-neng]):
    Name this monk, traditionally considered to be the author of an early "Platform" Sutra. This "Sixth Patriarch" of a certain tradition was said to have achieved "sudden enlightenment" after reading the Diamond Sutra.
  Part 2 (ans: Chan Buddhism [or Zen Buddhism]):
    Huineng was the sixth patriarch of this Chinese Buddhist tradition, whose first patriarch was Bodhidharma. This Mahayana tradition, which is also popular in Japan, involves meditation and the study of koans.
  Part 3 (ans: the Bodhi tree [prompt on trees]):
    In a legendary verse contest, Huineng rejected Shenxiu's analogy that the mind was a mirror stand and the body was this object. Another figure adopted the "earth witness" mudra after meeting Mara's daughters and an army of monsters while he sat by this object.

[B2] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A chapter of Justin Remes's Motion(less) Pictures catalogues the experimental tradition of monochrome film. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blue [accept International Klein Blue]):
    The foremost example is Derek Jarman's 1993 film titled for this color. In the film, Nigel Terry and Tilda Swinton narrate over a still frame of an "International" hue of this color named for Yves Klein.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [accept Zen for Film; prompt on Buddhism]):
    A blank image comprises a Nam June Paik work titled for this religion "for Film." Paik was led to this religion by John Cage, whose piece 4'33" was inspired by D. T. Suzuki's lectures on this religion's meditation practice.
  Part 3 (ans: Guy Debord [or Guy-Ernest Debord] (The book is The Society of the Spectacle.)):
    The earliest monochromatic film may be this man's Lettrist film Howlings in Favour of De Sade. This thinker provided the narration over detourned found footage and feature films while adapting a book whose cover shows a crowd of moviegoers wearing 3D glasses.

[B3] 2025 RMP Fest (2025) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: The German priest Hugo Enomiya-Lassalle was among the first Catholics to embrace this tradition, whose later Christian practitioners include Robert Kennedy and Ama Samy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [prompt on Buddhism or Mahayana Buddhism or Japanese Buddhism]):
    Name this tradition. A Trappist monk discussed Christ's kenosis in Philippians 2:7 in terms of this tradition in the book [this tradition] and the Birds of Appetite.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Merton):
    This Trappist monk studied Zen Buddhism and other Eastern traditions in dialogues with D.T. Suzuki and the Confucian-trained Catholic convert John C.H. Wu. This monk's autobiography is titled The Seven-Storey Mountain.
  Part 3 (ans: Jesuits [or the Society of Jesus]):
    Enomiya-Lassalle, Kennedy, and Samy are all priests from this religious order, whose practice of embracing local cultures guided their missions to China and Japan, led by Matteo Ricci and Francis Xavier, respectively.

[B4] 2025 MRNA (2025) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: "What is Buddha?" "A dried shitstick" is an example of a koan, a statement from this tradition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [prompt on Mahayana Buddhism; prompt on Chan Buddhism by asking "By what name is that tradition known in Japan?]):
    Name this Japanese Buddhist tradition that uses koans to challenge initiates and promote insight. Adherents of this tradition create namesake rock gardens.
  Part 2 (ans: Buddha-Nature [or Buddhahood; or tathagatagarbha; or buddhadhatu; accept answers describing the capacity to become a Buddha; accept the capacity to achieve enlightenment or Nirvana or liberation or moksha; accept answers describing the completion of the Noble Eightfold Path]):
    In a famous koan, the teacher Zhaozhou is asked if a dog has this trait to which he replies, "Mu." Mahayana Buddhists generally believe that all beings innately possess this trait because they possess a "luminous mind." A description is acceptable.
  Part 3 (ans: Dogen Zenji [or Dogen Kigen; or Eihei Dogen]):
    This Zen teacher supported the idea that all living things, including plants, have Buddha-Nature. He compiled 301 koans in The True Dharma Eye, promoted shikantaza meditation, and founded the Soto school.

[B5] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: A modern version of a form of this religion emphasizes social and political activity based on the teachings of Taixu. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; or Thien Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism; prompt on Mahayana Buddhism]):
    Identify this religious school. Legendarily, the founder of this school ripped off his own eyelids, which fell to the ground and grew into tea plants.
  Part 2 (ans: Thich Nhat Hanh ("TICK nyuht HUHN") [or Thich Nhat Hanh; accept Thay ("tay")]):
    This Thien ("TEE-in") Buddhist monk helped establish Engaged Buddhism along with B. R. Ambedkar. This monk founded the Plum Village Monastery in France after he was banished from his home country.
  Part 3 (ans: meditation [or zazen]):
    Both Zen and Engaged Buddhism place heavy emphasis on this practice of mental and internal reflection, during which Buddhist monks will often chant the syllable "om."

[B6] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet from this tradition wrote of the "red thread" connecting men and women to justify his relationship with the blind singer Mori. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; prompt on Buddhism or Buddhist or Mahayana]):
    Name this tradition whose adherents include the medieval poets Saigyo and Ryokan. The NYRB Classics book The Sound of the One Hand collects 281 of this tradition's koans.
  Part 2 (ans: Ikkyu ("EEK-cue") [or Ikkyu Sojun]):
    The term "Red Thread Zen" refers to the outlook of this wandering poet nicknamed "Crazy Cloud." Stephen Berg translated this monk's poems in Crow with No Mouth.
  Part 3 (ans: skeletons [accept bones; or gaikatsu; accept The Records of a Weather-Exposed Skeleton or Travelogue of Weather-Beaten Bones]):
    These objects advise Ikkyu to "Cast off the notion that 'I exist'" in a sequence of poems named for them. Basho's first haibun is translated as the "records of a weather-exposed" one of these objects.

[B7] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: A text attributed to the founder of this sect outlines the "entrance of principle" and "entrance of practice." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]):
    Name this sect founded by the author of the Treatise on the Two Entrances and Four Practices. This sect of Buddhism promotes meditation to achieve enlightenment, and practitioners may create namesake rock gardens and contemplate paradoxical statements called koans.
  Part 2 (ans: Bodhidharma [or Daruma or Damo]):
    Zen Buddhism was founded by this "blue-eyed barbarian" who cut off his eyelids after falling asleep while staring at a wall. This man legendarily taught kung fu to the monks of Shaolin Monastery.
  Part 3 (ans: Rinzai school [or Rinzai-shu; prompt on Linji zong]):
    This sect of Zen Buddhism, particularly practiced among samurai, was revived by Hakuin Ekaku ("HA-koo-een AY-ka-koo"), who believed that serving others was the central concern of Zen. It is derived from the Chinese Linji school.

[B8] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: A thinker from this country distinguished the "field of consciousness" from the deeper fields of "nihility" and "emptiness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nippon or Nihon] (The school is the Kyoto school. The term is mono no aware.)):
    The author of Religion and Nothingness was part of a "school" from what country? This country's aesthetic philosophy includes a concept translated as "pathos of things," which refers to an awareness of impermanence.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]):
    That author, Keiji Nishitani, wrote about the "standpoint" of this school of Buddhism, whose philosophers have often discussed mu, or nothingness. D. T. Suzuki popularized this school's style of meditation in the West.
  Part 3 (ans: embodied [accept the embodied mind or embodied cognition]):
    Nishitani's thought influenced the Varela et al. book that introduced a theory of "mind" described by this adjective. George Lakoff advanced his theory of this type of "cognition" in Philosophy in the Flesh.

[B9] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet advocated for the principle, "awakening to the high, returning to the low," meaning that poets should seek spiritual cultivation and then write about everyday life. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Matsuo Basho (The poem is his frog haiku.)):
    Name this poet whose other principles include "following the Creative" and "object and self as one." This poet exemplified those principles in a poem whose last line contains an onomatopoeia for water splashing.
  Part 2 (ans: Yosa Buson):
    In contrast to Basho's "returning to the low," this poet argued that haikai poets should achieve a "departure from the common" by reading Chinese poetry. This poet is considered one of the three great haiku masters alongside Issa and Basho.
  Part 3 (ans: Zen Buddhism [prompt on Buddhism]):
    Basho's poetics were largely inspired by Daoism and this tradition. Buson remarked that his idea of "departure from the common" was difficult to understand, like the koans used in this religious tradition.

[B10] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This text contains a set of nine practical principles such as "Become acquainted with every art," which are supplemented by the twenty-one "spirtual principles" of the author's Dokkodo. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Book of Five Rings [or Go Rin no Sho]):
    Name this treatise made up of Books of Earth, Water, Fire, Wind, and Void. Like the Hagakure, this Miyamoto Musashi book is a major source on Edo period bushido.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [accept Chan Buddhism; prompt on Mahayana; prompt on Buddhism]):
    Musashi's Book of Void draws on the philosophy of this Mahayana tradition analyzed in "the Art of Archery" by Eugen Herrigel. Its Soto, Rinzai, and Obaku schools study paradoxical koan.
  Part 3 (ans: Suzuki [D.T. Suzuki and Shinichi Suzuki]):
    A thinker with this surname wrote "Zen and the Samurai" in Zen and Japanese Culture, and penned a 1934 Introduction to Zen Buddhism. Nurtured by Love contains the philosophy of a musical pedagogue of this surname.

[B11] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This substance is referenced in the final line of the poems composed during the legendary poetry contest between Shenxiu and Huineng. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dust [or chen; accept powder]):
    In a parable from the Lotus Sutra, the Buddha uses the scale of this substance to illustrate the unfathomable scale of kalpas. In Tenrikyo, a set of eight mental types of this substance are the subject of Hinokishin activities.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [do not accept or prompt on Chan Buddhism]):
    Shenxiu and Huineng were both members of a school of Chinese Mahayana Buddhism that originated this form of Buddhism in Japan. This school is known for its paradoxical riddles called koans and its namesake gardens.
  Part 3 (ans: Bodhidharma [or Damo; or Daruma]):
    This first patriarch of the Chinese Chan school is often erroneously credited with creating Shaolin kungfu. This figure cut off his eyelids after falling asleep seven years into a nine year period of staring at a wall.

[B12] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: The eighth of a set of pictures depicting one of these animals and a human is blank, to symbolize that they have transcended. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bulls [or oxen; prompt on cows or bovines or similar answers; accept Ten Bulls or the Ox-Herding Pictures]):
    Name this type of animal, which are depicted in that set of 10 pictures created by Kakuan. That set of pictures is a prominent pedagogical tool for reaching enlightenment in Chan Buddhism.
  Part 2 (ans: Japanese Zen Buddhism):
    This Japanese Buddhist school grew out of Chan Buddhism. This sect emphasizes meditation on statements called koans.
  Part 3 (ans: gates [or men; accept Three Mysterious Gates or Gateless Gate; accept barrier or Gateless Barrier]):
    The Chan Buddhist Linji Xiyuan described reality using three "mysterious" examples of these things. Many koans are collected in a book titled for a paradoxically named example of these objects that people must pass to reach enlightenment.

[B13] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: In a book titled for Religion and this concept, Keiji Nishitani created his Threefold Topology, which consisted of being, nihility, and this concept. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: nothingness [accept sunyata; accept mu]):
    Name this concept, whose absolute form was studied by many members of the Kyoto school. In a Jean-Paul Sartre book partially titled for this concept, this concept is said to allow for freedom of choice.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]):
    Keiji Nishitani's thought synthesized existentialism with this branch of Mahayana Buddhism, which focuses on meditation and contemplation of paradoxical koans.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Bergson):
    While studying at the University of Freiberg, Nishitani wrote a dissertation titled for the "Real and the Ideal" in the thought of Schelling and this other philosopher. More famously, this philosopher proposed the idea of elan vital in his book The Creative Evolution.

[B14] 2019 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2019) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: This concept is exemplified by Sen no Rikyu's decision to shake some leaves into a perfectly clean garden after sweeping it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: wabi-sabi):
    Name this concept from Japanese aesthetics in which imperfections, such as a chip on the edge of a teacup, are considered to make an object more beautiful.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]):
    Valuing wabi-sabi as part of the transience of the world is derived from the general philosophy of this variant of Mahayana Buddhism popular in Japan, which teaches a type of sudden enlightenment called satori.
  Part 3 (ans: pathos):
    Another Japanese concept related to transience, mono no aware ("ah-wah-reh"), is often translated into English as having this concept with respect to things in the world. This word can also refer to an appeal to emotion.

[B15] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: During this event, the Buddha declared that he entrusted the "true Dharma eye" to Mahakasyapa ("muh-hah-kuh-SYAH-puh") for comprehending tathata ("tah-tuh-tah"), or "inexpressible suchness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Flower Sermon [or Nian Hua Wei Xiao]):
    Name this event in which the Buddha silently held up an object in front of his disciples, only one of whom, Mahakasyapa, responded correctly by smiling.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]):
    The Flower Sermon is often cited as an origin story for this school of Buddhism, which was brought to China by Bodhidharma. Adherents of its Rinzai school meditate on koans to attain enlightenment.
  Part 3 (ans: Dogen [or Kigen Dogen; or Dogen Zenji; or Eihei Dogen; or Koso Joyo Daishi]):
    The largest Zen Buddhist sect in Japan, the Soto school, was founded by this author of The True Dharma Eye. He emphasized shikantaza ("shee-kahn-tah-zah"), or silent meditation without contemplation of koans.

[B16] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Social Science
     Leadin: In a book about this kind of therapy "integrated," Erving and Miriam Polster developed the concept of "contact-boundary phenomena." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: gestalt [accept gestalt practice or gestalt therapy]):
    Give this word that describes a "practice" of personal exploration developed in part based on a "therapy" of the same name developed by Laura and Fritz Perls.
  Part 2 (ans: Esalen [ESS-ah-len] Institute):
    Price worked with Fritz Perls while running this "institute" in Big Sur, California, which aimed to advance the study of "human potentialities." Aldous Huxley was a prominent figure in this institute that spread new-age ideas during the counterculture movement of the 1960s.
  Part 3 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism; or Seon Buddhism; prompt on Mahayana or Buddhism]):
    Gestalt practice combined western therapeutic ideas with the introspective meditative practices of this eastern religious movement that was popularized in the U.S. by the unrelated writers D. T. Suzuki and Shunryu Suzuki.

[B17] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Mythology
     Leadin: A god in this country is usually shown carrying a magic hammer, and represents a syncretization of the death god Mahakala and a traditional hero known as the "Great Land Master." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nihon-koku or Nippon-koku]):
    Name this country where that god figures among a group of seven who sail around in a great treasure ship.
  Part 2 (ans: Buddhism [or Zen Buddhism]):
    One of Japan's Seven Lucky Gods is Bishamonten ("bee-sha-MOAN-ten"), who is based on a protector figure in this religion called Vaisravana ("vye-SHRUH-vuh-nuh"); another of them is Budai, a semi-historical priest of this religion with Mahayana and Theravada branches.
  Part 3 (ans: Saraswati [or Sarasvati]):
    Among the Seven Lucky Gods is Benzaiten ("ben-zye-ten"), a goddess who plays a string instrument called a biwa. Benzaiten derives from this goddess, who plays a string instrument called a veena and rides a swan.

[B18] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: This man's dialogue with Catholic writer Thomas Merton was published as the essay "Wisdom in Emptiness." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: D. T. Suzuki [or Suzuki Daisetsu Teitaro]):
    Name this writer, who compared the thought of Meister Eckhart to concepts such as satori and sunyata in his introductions to an Asian religious school.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism):
    Suzuki is best-known for spreading this school of Buddhism to the West. This school emphasizes meditation, sometimes through contemplation of paradoxical sayings called koans.
  Part 3 (ans: Emanuel Swedenborg):
    In Japan, Suzuki popularized the theology of this man, whom he dubbed the "Buddha of the North." Thousands of 19th-century Americans, including Johnny Appleseed, joined the New Church based on the teachings of this Swedish mystic theologian.

[B19] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: This sect of Mahayana Buddhism was founded by Bodhidharma ("bode"-hee-DAR-mah). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]):
    Name this Buddhist sect that is divided into the Soto, Rinzai, and Obaku schools of thought and whose practitioners are mainly found in Japan.
  Part 2 (ans: one hand clapping [accept answers mentioning a single hand (clapping); do not accept or prompt on answers mentioning multiple "hands"]):
    The Zen Buddhist thinker Hakuin Ekaku (hah-koo-een ay-kah-koo) formulated a koan that asks what sound this body part makes.
  Part 3 (ans: original face):
    Another Zen koan, which originated in the Gateless Gate, asks the listener to show the Zen master his "original" body part of this type, the one that the listener possessed "before your parents were born."

[B20] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: This text relates a wisdom contest in which one monk says the mind is a mirror that needs polishing to remove dust and his opponent retorts that because the mind is emptiness, there is nowhere for dust to gather. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Platform Sutra of the Sixth Patriarch):
    Name this sutra that unusually contains autobiographical elements, albeit apocryphal ones, relating the story of the transmission of the dharma from Hongren to Huineng and from Huineng to his disciples.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism [or Chan Buddhism]):
    Huineng was the sixth patriarch of this sect of Buddhism, whose members seek enlightenment through personal insight, aided by meditation and contemplation of koans.
  Part 3 (ans: Bodhidharma):
    This "blue-eyed barbarian" was the first patriarch of Zen Buddhism. This man steadfastly refused to allow Huike to become his apprentice until Huike cut off his own arm and gave it to this man to prove his devotion.

[B21] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Social Science
     Leadin: The Soto School makes up the largest branch of this religious sect. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [prompt on "Chan Buddhism"]):
    Name this sect of Buddhism founded by Bodhidharma whose members contemplate koans.
  Part 2 (ans: The Blue Cliff Record):
    Like the Gateless Gate, this book compiles many koans of the Song Dynasty. Classics like "the Highest Meaning of the Holy Truths" and "Hsueh Fang's Grain of Rice" are included in this book.
  Part 3 (ans: zazen meditation):
    Zen Buddhists participate in this type of meditation in which you sit and contemplate your self. People sometimes sit in a lotus or kneeling position while doing this activity.

[B22] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Answer the following about major schools of Buddhism in Japan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pure Land Buddhism (or Jodo bukkyo)):
    Members of this school venerate the Amit-abha Buddha, who was once a monk named Dharmak-ara. This school consists of two major sects, known as Jodo-shu and Jodo-Shinshu.
  Part 2 (ans: Zen Buddhism):
    This other school of Buddhism emphasizes the pondering of koans while practicing meditation. The Rinzai sect of this school emphasizes kensho, a form of self-awareness attained through satori.
  Part 3 (ans: Shingon Buddhism (accept Japanese Esoteric Buddhism or Orthodox Esoteric Buddhism)):
    One of the central texts of this school is the Mahavairochana Sutra, which contains a dialogue between its namesake Buddha and his disciple Vajrasattva. It was founded by Kukai, who established its first monastery at Mount Koya.

[B23] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Answer these questions about a pioneer of applying meditation in medical settings to relieve stress and chronic pain, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jon Kabat-Zinn):
    Name this Professor Emeritus of Medicine, author of books including Full Catastrophe Living and Wherever You Go, There You Are.
  Part 2 (ans: Mindfulness-based Stress Reduction (accept MBSR)):
    Initially piloted at the University of Massachussets and now used world-wide in clinical and other settings, which eight-week course did Kabat-Zinn develop, combining guided instruction in mindfulness meditation practices with a general approach to increased awareness.
  Part 3 (ans: Zen Buddhism (accept Buddhism)):
    Kabat-Zinn adapted the teachings of Thich Nhat Hanh in developing the MBSR course. Which religion did these teachings stem from?

[B24] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The Sanskrit word "Dhyana" is the origin for the name of this religion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism):
    Name this branch of Mahayana Buddhism that asks un
  Part 2 (ans: Flower Sermon):
    Zen Buddhism supposedly had its legend in this story in which Buddha handed the namesake object to his follower Mahakashyapa while sitting at a pond.
  Part 3 (ans: Bodhidharma):
    This man is considered the founder of Zen Buddhism. He traveled to China from India and ripped out his eyelids after meditating at Shaolin Temple for nine years.

[B25] 2013 Penn Bowl (2013) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The Rinzai school of this sect emphasizes self-contemplation, called kensho, which eventually leads to the state of satori. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zen Buddhism [prompt on "Buddhism"]):
    Name this Japanese branch of Mahayana Buddhism that focuses on meditation and contemplation of seemingly contradictory statements called koans.
  Part 2 (ans: Zazen):
    This is the name given to the practice of seated meditation in Zen Buddhism. It can be done in the full-lotus or half-lotus postures.
  Part 3 (ans: Guanyin [or Avalokitesvara]):
    When Bodhidharma visited the Emperor Wu, one of his officials stated that this bodhisattva was communicating through him. This figure has a lot of arms to remove obstacles.
