=== STOCK CLUES: Arnolfini Portrait ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: weddings [or marriages; or matrimony; accept The Wedding at Cana or Arnolfini Wedding; prompt on feasts or banquets by asking "as part of what other events?"] (The first line refers to Lotto's Venus and Cupid. The fourth line refers to Jan van Eyck's Arnolfini Portrait.)
  - A humorous painting that was commissioned for one of these events depicts a figure peeing through a laurel wreath and was created by Lorenzo Lotto.
  - Rainwater damaged a 1992 restoration of a painting depicting one of these events that was created for the San Giorgio Monastery before being looted by Napoleon.
  - The artist plays a viola da braccio alongside Tintoretto and Titian in a depiction of one of these events from John 2, which is currently the largest painting in the Louvre.
  - A 1434 double portrait often interpreted as depicting one of these events includes the artist's signature on a wall and a hand hold that may be an act of fides.
  - For 10 points, one of what events is depicted in a Paolo Veronese painting set "at Cana?" [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: weddings [or marriages; or similar; accept The Arnolfini Wedding or The Arnolfini Marriage; accept The Peasant Wedding; accept The Wedding Candles; accept betrothal; prompt on The Arnolfini Portrait by asking "what is the other common title of that painting?"]
  - A painting titled for one of these events was created from the right half of the artist's abandoned painting The Harlequins and depicts a chandelier at the top.
  - In the foreground of a painting of one of these events, a boy in a red hat with a peacock feather is shown licking a plate.
  - In that painting of one of these events, two people use a door to carry food across the foreground.
  - Erwin Panofsky argued that an artist's signature on the back wall in a painting of one of these events functioned as a legal record.
  - A painting believed to depict one of these events features a convex mirror that is surrounded by scenes from the Passion of the Christ.
  - For 10 points, a dog and a pair of clogs appear at the bottom of a Jan van Eyck painting depicting what type of event between the Arnolfinis? [GIVE]

[T3] 2017 Jordaens Visual Arts (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: the convex mirror in the Arnolfini Portrait
  - Ford Madox Ford imitiated this object for an object behind the head of a woman holding her newborn baby in Take Your Son, Sir! [PWR]
  - Four years after this object was painted, it influenced another artist to paint a similar object next to John the Baptist in the left panel of The Werl Triptych. [PWR]
  - The artist who painted this object depicted a similar object from a different angle in his only secular nude painting, Woman Bathing. [PWR]
  - Amber prayer beads and a brush flank this object, which is surrounded by roundels depicting the Passion of Christ. [PWR]
  - (*) Erwin Panofsky theorized that two people are depicted in this object because the painting featuring it served as a contract, and also cited the inscription stating that its artist "was here" that is painted on the wall above this object.
  - The artist, as well as the back of a woman wearing a green dress, are visible in this item.
  - For 10 points, identify this item in Van Eyck's Arnolfini Portrait that shows the painting's scene from the back. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This scholar's approach to iconology argued for visual interpretation on three separate levels: natural, conventional, and intrinsic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Erwin Panofsky):
    Name this art historian, who pioneered iconology along with Aby Warburg. This scholar wrote the 1953 book Early Netherlandish Painting.
  Part 2 (ans: The Arnolfini Wedding [or The Arnolfini Portrait or The Arnolfini Marriage or Portrait of Giovanni Arnolfini and his Wife]):
    In Early Netherlandish Painting, Panofsky argued that this painting constitutes a marriage contract. This painting by Jan van Eyck depicts a couple holding hands.
  Part 3 (ans: mouse [or mousetrap ]):
    In 1964, Panofsky wrote about one of these animals "That Michelangelo Failed to Carve." An object named for this animal lies on the table in the right panel of the Merode Altarpiece.

[B2] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Erwin Panofsky argued that this artist resorted to an "archaic rather than progressive" perspective in Early Netherlandish Painting. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Campin):
    Name this Flemish artist, best known for an altarpiece whose central panel depicts an Annunciation scene in a dining room. Most scholars agree that this artist was the Master of Flemalle because of his workshop in Tournai.
  Part 2 (ans: triptych):
    Robert Campin's Merode Altarpiece is in this physical form composed of three panels. Other works in this form include The Garden of Earthly Delights.
  Part 3 (ans: The Arnolfini Wedding [accept The Arnolfini Portrait and equivalents]):
    In Early Netherlandish Painting, Erwin Panofsky also argued that this other painting was a legal certificate due to a signature stating "[its artist] was here."

[B3] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Along with his On Art and Connoisseurship, Max Friedlander is known for a comprehensive 14-volume study titled for this time period. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Early Netherlandish painting [or Early Netherlandish art/style; accept Early Netherlandish Painting or Die altniederlandische Malerei; accept Old Netherlandish, which is the literal translation of the German term; prompt on Northern Renaissance; do not accept or prompt on "Dutch Painting" or "Dutch Golden Age"]):
    Name this time period that also titles a 1953 book by Erwin Panofsky in which he applies his iconographic method to a certain region's artistic style.
  Part 2 (ans: The Arnolfini Portrait [or The Arnolfini Wedding]):
    In Early Netherlandish Painting, Panofsky put forth the claim that this painting could be read as a contract. The two figures in this painting by Jan van Eyck clasp hands to the left of a wooden image of St. Margaret on a bedpost.
  Part 3 (ans: Madonna of Chancellor Rolin [accept any answer referring to Chancellor Rolin and a Madonna]):
    The cover of one edition of Panofsky's book features this other van Eyck painting, whose namesake Burgundian commissioner is depicted in a donor portrait on the left and sits opposite the Virgin, who wears a long red cape.

[B4] 2017 Thought Monstrosity (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: An accidental discovery by naval historian Jacques Paviot suggests that the event traditionally thought to have been depicted in this painting didn't take place until six years after the painter's death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Arnolfini Wedding [or The Arnolfini Portrait; or The Arnolfini Marriage; or Portrait of Giovanni Arnolfini and His Wife]):
    Name this painting which has been analyzed in depth by Craig Harbison. An influential analysis of this painting discusses the actions of fides manualis [FEE-dace mah-noo-AH-"lease"] and fides levata [FEE-dace lay-VAH-tah] and compares it to effigies on medieval tombs.
  Part 2 (ans: Erwin Panofsky):
    This art historian argued that The Arnolfini Wedding is actually a pictorial marriage contract in a classic iconographic analysis. He wrote Studies in Iconology and Early Netherlandish Painting.
  Part 3 (ans: she was pregnant [accept clear equivalents]):
    The shape of the bride's dress and the presence of a carving of St. Margaret on the bedpost are often taken as evidence that the bride in The Arnolfini Wedding was in this state, which is also a popular explanation for the Mona Lisa's enigmatic smile.

[B5] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This adjective appears in the title of a painting of a coppice near Warter that the artist created using both en plein air and digital photography. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bigger [accept Bigger Trees Near Warter; accept A Bigger Picture; accept A Bigger Splash; do not accept or prompt on "big" or other wrong answers]):
    Name this adjective which precedes "picture" in the name of a popular 2012 exhibition at the Guggenheim Bilbao. It also appears in the title of a Pop Art painting of a swimming pool in a modern house.
  Part 2 (ans: David Hockney):
    A Bigger Splash is a painting by this English-born California artist of Mr. and Mrs. Clark and Percy, who together with physicist Charles Falco theorized that optical aids like the camera obscura made advances in realism in Western art possible.
  Part 3 (ans: The Arnolfini Portrait [or The Arnolfini Wedding; The Arnolfini Marriage; or The Arnolfini Double Portrait; or Portrait of Giovanni Arnolfini and his Wife]):
    A key example Hockney used to support his thesis was the chandelier in this van Eyck painting of an Italian merchant and his presumed wife.

[B6] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: It includes scenes from The Passion of Christ which surround a mirror on the back wall that shows the central figures receiving two guests. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Arnolfini Wedding [or The Arnolfini Marriage; or The Arnolfini Portrait; or Portrait of Giovanni Arnolfini and his Wife; basically accept anything that includes Arnolfini, his wife, and/or a wedding]):
    Name this painting depicting a woman in green offering her hand to a man in a black coat. It was commissioned by a namesake Italian merchant and was painted by Van Eyck.
  Part 2 (ans: fruit [They kind of look like peaches or oranges or grapefruits, so take that since no one is really certain, but they are obviously not bananas.]):
    In The Arnolfini Wedding, this kind of object lies on the window sill and the drawer below it. They symbolize fertility. Shocker.
  Part 3 (ans: genre painting):
    The Arnolfini Wedding is often said to be the first type of this type of painting, which focuses on everyday life. Chardin was a master of it.
