=== STOCK CLUES: Jan van Eyck ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 64 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 17 found, 51 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: weddings [or marriages; or matrimony; accept The Wedding at Cana or Arnolfini Wedding; prompt on feasts or banquets by asking "as part of what other events?"] (The first line refers to Lotto's Venus and Cupid. The fourth line refers to Jan van Eyck's Arnolfini Portrait.)
  - A humorous painting that was commissioned for one of these events depicts a figure peeing through a laurel wreath and was created by Lorenzo Lotto.
  - Rainwater damaged a 1992 restoration of a painting depicting one of these events that was created for the San Giorgio Monastery before being looted by Napoleon.
  - The artist plays a viola da braccio alongside Tintoretto and Titian in a depiction of one of these events from John 2, which is currently the largest painting in the Louvre.
  - A 1434 double portrait often interpreted as depicting one of these events includes the artist's signature on a wall and a hand hold that may be an act of fides.
  - For 10 points, one of what events is depicted in a Paolo Veronese painting set "at Cana?" [GIVE]

[T2] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: van Eyck [or Jan van Eyck; or Hubert van Eyck; or Barthelemy d'Eyck]
  - An artist with this surname was acclaimed for a triptych showing Jeremiah on the right and proclaimed the "Master of the Aix Annunciation." An artwork showing three women in green, red and blue is one of the few artworks attributed to another artist with this surname.
  - A miniature showing John the Baptist's birth was likely designed by an artist with this surname under the name "Hand G." An artist with this surname designed the structure of an artwork showing an ornately detailed organ played by St.
  - Cecilia.
  - Two artists with this surname are shown as horsemen in that painting's Just Judges panel, and that work also shows God above in its Adoration of the Mystic Lamb section.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of two brothers who created the Ghent Altarpiece. [GIVE]

[T3] 2024 FEMTO (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gilles Binchois [accept Gilles de Bins; accept Ensemble Gilles Binchois] (Leal Souvenir is by Jan van Eyck.)
  - Dominique Vellard founded an ensemble named for this composer that recorded Liszt's little-known responsory Septem Sacramenta in 2022. [PWR]
  - The speaker of a song by this composer "will carry nothing but black as long as [they] can return to you." A song by this composer opens with the melody: pickup E - G, E - G, F - D, C. [PWR]
  - Erwin Panofsky claimed that the painting Leal Souvenir depicts this composer, although this is disputed. [PWR]
  - This composer wrote the songs Mon seul et souverain desir and De (*) plus en plus.
  - This composer's death likely inspired the lament Mort, tu es navre de ton dart.
  - This second most famous composer to be praised for adopting the contenance angloise was likely the teacher of Johannes Ockeghem.
  - For 10 points, name this composer who, along with Busnois, Tapissier, and Du Fay, was a member of the Burgundian school. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Logomachy (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jan van Eyck
  - In a painting by this artist, the archangel Michael's buckler displays the mysterious words "Adoravi tetgrammathon agla" [ah-doh-RAH-vee tet-GRAM-uh-tahn AH-glah], the last of which also appears on floor tiles in another painting by this artist. [PWR]
  - In a painting by this artist, a quote from the Book of Wisdom saying "she is more beautiful than the sun" is embroidered on Mary's robe. [PWR]
  - In an Annunciation by this artist, the words "ecce ancilla Domini" [ET-chay on-CHEEL-lah DOH-mee-nee] are written (*) upside-down. [PWR]
  - This artist's signature often includes a phrase meaning "as I can" that puns on this artist's name.
  - Words meaning "music in praise of God" accompany the depiction of angels playing music in a polyptych [PAH-lip-tik] by this artist in which inscriptions appear over the heads of God, Mary, and John the Baptist in the center.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of the Ghent Altarpiece. [GIVE]

[T5] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: van Eyck [or Jan van Eyck; or Hubert van Eyck; or Barthelemy d'Eyck; or Barthelemy van Eyck]
  - It's not David , but Max Friedlander disproved that an artist with this surname painted a version of the Virgo inter Virgines.
  - The "Master of the Shadows" of the Tres Riches Heures  may be an artist with this surname named Barthelemy .
  - An artist with this surname is thought to be the "Hand G" who worked on the Turin-Milan Hours. [PWR]
  - A depiction of St. [PWR]
  - Cecilia playing the organ appears to the left of a (*) nude Eve holding a citrus fruit in a painting by two artists with this surname. [PWR]
  - Lettering curves around a seated God the Father in that painting by artists with this surname, which also depicts the Adoration of the Mystic Lamb in the bottom panel of its open view.
  - For 10 points, give the surname of the two Netherlandish Renaissance brothers who painted the Ghent Altarpiece. [GIVE]

[T6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jan van Eyck [or Johannes van Eyck; or Johes. de Eyck; accept answers mentioning Jan van Eyck's signature or similar; prompt on "Jan" or "Johannes" or "Johes." or "Eyck"; prompt on "artist's signature" or similar answers]
  - In one painting, this name is shown in the bastarda cursive script, apparently etched onto a stone barrier and in phrasing that Lome Campbell theorized was a satire of legalese.
  - In that painting, this name appears below a French inscription meaning "loyal memory" on a portrait believed to depict Timotheus of Miletus.
  - In paintings thought to be pendant portraits, this name is rendered in conjunction with the Latin phrases "me fecit" and "me complevit" in abbreviated Greek script.
  - This name, whose inclusion in artworks was unconventional for its time, often appears with the words "was here," as in a painting in which it is rendered on a wall in lavish calligraphy near the date "1434" and above a convex mirror whose wooden frame depicts the Stations of the Cross.
  - The punning personal motto "as I can" often appears alongside, for 10 points, what name painted onto works such as Man in a Red Turban and The Arnolfini Wedding to identify their creator? [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jan van Eyck [generously accept Hubert van Eyck]
  - This accuracy of this artist's workshop in depicting Jerusalem in its The Three Marys at the Tomb suggests that he may have visited the Middle East.
  - The phrase "Loyal Memory" is etched in stone beneath a man wearing a green chaperon in this man's Leal Souvenir.
  - Over 20 paintings by this artist contain a pun on the Greek spelling of his name, meaning "As I Can." Mary wears two gold rings and a flowing red dress in both this artist's (*) Dresden Triptych and Lucca Madonna, which feature his wife Marguerite. [PWR]
  - This artist created a noted self-portrait in a red turban.
  - A convex mirror in a work by this artist has a set of medallions depicting the Passion of Christ around its edge, and accompanies a small furry dog at the bottom of a merchant's feet.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of the Arnolfini Wedding. [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Madonnas by Jan van Eyck
  - Note to players: artist and type of work required.
  - In one of these paintings, the word "ADONAI" is inscribed on St.
  - George's breastplate as he introduces the title jowly canon, whose salvation is signified by armrest sculptures of Cain killing Abel and Samson wrenching a lion's jaws apart.
  - Two angels unfurl a cloth canopy in one of these paintings set "at the Fountain," and the subject towers halfway up to the ceiling of a Gothic cathedral in one of them set "in the Church." The most famous painting from this set represents the seven deadly sins through stone rabbits underneath a column, four capitals depicting Bible stories, idlers on a battlement, and the title character's gold-studded belt.
  - That painting's foreground features a room tiled with eight-pointed stars where an angel holds a giant crown above the head of the title character.
  - For 10 points, name this group of paintings of the Holy Mother, including one painted for Chancellor Rolin, by the artist of the Ghent Altarpiece. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 Oxford Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jan van Eyck
  - In one depiction of the Virgin and Child by this artist an elderly canon robed in white kneels to the right of Mary with a pair of spectacles in his hands.
  - Another painting by this artist shows two men in the background standing next a pair of peacocks and looking over a crenelated wall.
  - Another painting by this artist shows a chandelier with only a single lit candle.
  - This artist's motto was "as I can" which appears at the top of the frame of a possible self-portrait of a man in a red turban.
  - This artist of the Madonna of Chancellor Rolin painted a man and a woman who is no longer thought to be pregnant.
  - For 10 points name this artist of the Ghent Altarpiece and The Arnolfini Portrait. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jan van Eyck [or Hubert van Eyck until "his patron" is read]
  - An image of God the Father in a painting by this artist served as the model for the halo above Napoleon's head in Ingres's portrait. [PWR]
  - That painting by him contains a life-sized nude rendition of Eve, who carries a citrus fruit in place of the traditional apple. [PWR]
  - This artist arranged for his patron's marriage to Isabella of Portugal as the court painter to Duke Philip the Good.
  - Several of his paintings bear signed frames with the motto (*) "As I can," forming a pun in Greek on his own name. [PWR]
  - In a possible self-portrait of his, a man wears a red chaperon commonly mistaken for a turban.
  - The Just Judges was stolen from a polyptych mostly by this artist, whose bottom center, when open, depicts the Adoration of the Mystic Lamb.
  - For 10 points, name this Flemish artist who, with his brother Hubert, painted the Ghent Altarpiece. [GIVE]

[T11] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Jan van Eyck [or Johannes de Eyck]
  - One of this artist's paintings features background architecture very similar to the Mass of the Dead from the Turin-Milan Hours, lending credence to the theory that he is that work's anonymous "Hand G." The landscape of Autun can be seen in the background of a painting by this man in which an angel holds an elaborate crown over the head of the Virgin, who extends her child toward the namesake bureaucrat.
  - This artist of Madonna in the Church also depicted the Madonna with Canon van der Paele and with Chancellor Rolin.
  - The Just Judges is the missing lower-left panel of a polyptych whose central panel features a ring of angels surrounding the Lamb of God, a collaboration between this artist and his brother Hubert.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of the Ghent Altarpiece. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One version of this scene was stolen and relocated to Danzig, causing a lawsuit to be placed against the Hanseatic ("han-zee-AT-ick") League. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Last Judgement (The versions are by Memling and Michelangelo.)):
    Name this scene. In the aforementioned version, the donor sits on the right-hand scale held by Saint Michael in the foreground. Another version of this scene represents the critic Biagio de Cesena ("B'YA-joh de cheh-ZAY-nah") as a donkey-eared King Minos and the artist as St. Bartholomew.
  Part 2 (ans: Petrus Christus ("KRIS-tus") [or Pieter Christus]):
    Hans Memling's time as the leading painter of Bruges ("broozh") was shared with this other artist, who pioneered the use of perspective in Early Netherlandish painting and produced Portrait of a Carthusian ("car-THOO-zee-uhn").
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck ("van IKE")):
    Memling and Christus rose to prominence after the death of this possible inventor of oil painting, whose own works include the Ghent Altarpiece and the Arnolfini ("ar-noll-FEE-nee") Wedding.

[B2] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This figure's "intense interaction with the onlookers" was described by Helene Dubois [Du-bwah], who led a recent restoration of the painting depicting it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Mystic lamb [accept Agnus Dei; accept the Mystic Lamb; accept Adoration of the Mystic Lamb; accept descriptions of the lamb in the Ghent Altarpiece; accept descriptions of the lamb from Adoration of the Mystic Lamb]):
    Name this figure revealed to have originally been depicted with forward-facing eyes and a humanoid face after restorations that ended in 2020.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    The Mystic lamb appears at the center of The Ghent Altarpiece, a painting by this artist of The Arnolfini Portrait and his brother Hubert.
  Part 3 (ans: John the Baptist [prompt on John alone]):
    The restoration also revealed an inscription dedicated to Hubert painted behind Mary and this figure. The Byzantine deesis inspired the Ghent Altarpiece's innermost top panels, which depict this figure, Mary, and Jesus.

[B3] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Julian Bell's Natural Light examines the "dawn of modern science" through a depiction of this scene on a copper plate which was once thought to contain a Galileo-inspired accurate depiction of the cosmos. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: The Flight into Egypt):
    Name this scene, which Adam Elsheimer unusually painted at night. A castle stands in the background of a Baroque landscape of this scene painted by Annibale Carraci as a lunette.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    After Leonardo and this artist, Elsheimer may be the third person to depict the moon with a pitted surface. Two life-sized, nude depictions of Adam and Eve appear in the top corners of a twelve-paneled work by this artist.
  Part 3 (ans: Peter Paul Rubens):
    Elsheimer's biggest fan was this friend of his, who would achieve far more fame for works like his Marie de Medici series and his penchant for fleshy nudes.

[B4] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In a version of this scene, the central figure is T-shaped to resemble a crossbow, reflecting the painting's commission by a guild of archers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Deposition from the Cross [or the Descent from the Cross; or Descent of Christ; or Deposition of Christ; prompt on descriptions such as Christ being taken off the cross]):
    Name this scene depicted by Rogier van der Weyden in a panel painting located in the Prado. A red-robed Saint John has one foot placed on a ladder in a depiction of this scene created for a cathedral in Antwerp.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    Van der Weyden was a contemporary of this other artist whose biblical scenes include an adoration in the center of his Ghent Altarpiece, which he made with his brother Hubert.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Luke the Evangelist [or Lucas or Loukas or Luqa'; accept Guild of Saint Luke]):
    Van der Weyden and Jan Gossaert both painted versions of a scene in which this person draws the Virgin Mary. Most major artistic guilds in early modern Europe were named for this person, such as one in Delft that included Jan Vermeer.

[B5] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The best-known painting by the Belgian artist Emile Wauters depicts this artist's late-career mental breakdown, which van Gogh compared himself to in letters to his brother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hugo van der Goes):
    Name this artist, who depicted the Adoration of the Magi in his Monforte Altarpiece. His best-known painting was installed in the hospital of Santa Maria Nuova, where it became a major influence on Italian artists.
  Part 2 (ans: van Eyck [accept Jan van Eyck or Hubert van Eyck; prompt on partial surname]):
    van der Goes was said to have gone mad after his Portinari Altarpiece failed to exceed the Ghent Altarpiece, a work by two artists with this surname. One of those artists with this surname painted the Arnolfini Marriage.
  Part 3 (ans: The Annunciation to the Blessed Virgin Mary):
    The Portinari Altarpiece displays this scene in grisaille [griz-EYE] on its exterior panels, as does the Ghent Altarpiece. Depictions of this scene, like the one in the centre of the Merode Altarpiece, often include lilies.

[B6] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Both the far right panel of Bosch's The Last Judgment triptych and his Garden of Earthly Delights show this location. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hell):
    Name this location depicted by many Northern Renaissance artists, who seemed to relish painting the souls of the damned being tortured by demons in this place.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    Sinners fall headfirst into Hell as they are defecated out by a giant skeleton with bat wings in this artist's Crucifixion and Last Judgement diptych, which was attributed to him thanks to its similarities with the "Hand G" illustrations in the Turin-Milan Hours.
  Part 3 (ans: Mad Meg [or Dull Gret; or Dulle Griet]):
    In this painting, Bruegel the Elder showed the title woman leading an army of women into a literal "mouth of Hell" on their way to pillage the underworld.

[B7] 2019 NASAT (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many Renaissance paintings employ the Droste effect, meaning that they contain smaller images of themselves. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Cardinal Giacomo Gaetani Stefaneschi):
    In a namesake triptych by Giotto, this cardinal presents Saint Peter with a smaller version of the triptych itself. That triptych named for this cardinal was originally used as an altarpiece for the old Saint Peter's Basilica.
  Part 2 (ans: Annunciation to the Blessed Virgin Mary):
    In a Carlo Crivelli painting that sets this scene in the town of Ascoli Piceno, Saint Emidius kneels to pass a small model of the town to the Virgin Mary. Fra Angelico painted several famous versions of this scene.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    A reversed image of the portrait's subjects can be seen in the convex mirror at the rear of this artist's Arnolfini Marriage.

[B8] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A pagan statue breaks and falls off its pedestal as the Christ child approaches in the background to a version of the Flight into Egypt commissioned for this building. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Chartreuse de Champmol [or Chartreuse de la Sainte-Trinite de Champmol; prompt on Chartreuse]):
    Name this monastery on the outskirts of Dijon for which much late 14th century French and Burgundian art was commissioned, including the surviving panel paintings by Melchior Broederlam and Claus Sluter's Well of Moses.
  Part 2 (ans: International Gothic):
    Sluter's Well of Moses and Broederlam's paintings represent the high water mark of this style of Gothic art, so-named because it spread widely across Europe in the late 14th and early 15th centuries.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck (that's the Ghent altarpiece)):
    Broederlam's use of oil painting influenced this artist, who painted an Annunciation as part of a now-lost triptych for the Chartreuse of Champmol. A surviving polyptych by this artist and his brother Hubert depicts the Adoration of the Mystic Lamb in the bottom center.

[B9] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Historians like Paula Nuttall have proposed a meeting between this artist and Antonello da Messina as a key intersection between the Northern Renaissance and the Italian Renaissance. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Petrus / Pieter Christus):
    Name this Bruges painter, said to be the first Northern painter to master linear perspective, whose works include Virgin and Child Enthroned with Saints Francis and Jerome and Portrait of a Carthusian.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan Van Eyck):
    Petrus Christus' predecessor in the Bruges school, and perhaps his teacher, was this Flemish painter who created the Ghent Altarpiece with his brother, Hubert.
  Part 3 (ans: Madonna and Child [also accept answers like Virgin and Child, Mary and Child, or Our Lady]):
    Petrus Christus' best-known depiction of this religious scene unusually takes place in the branches of a dry tree. Van Eyck's paintings of this scene include ones named for Canon van der Paele and for Chancellor Rolin.

[B10] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This phrase appears at the end of an inscription that an artist added to his portrait of his wife, Margaret. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "as I can" [or "als ik kan"]):
    Give this three-word phrase, often written in Greek letters, that is also carved into the frame above a portrait of a man in a red turban. Its middle word forms a pun with the artist's name.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck (yon fon ike)):
    The phrase "as I can" was used by this 15th-century Flemish artist to sign his Ghent Altarpiece, which he completed with his brother Hubert.
  Part 3 (ans: a mirror):
    In the Arnolfini Wedding, the signature "Jan van Eyck was here" was placed above this object, which is surrounded by ten medallions depicting the Passion of Christ. According to art historian Erwin Panofsky, this object's presence indicates the legality of the marriage.

[B11] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some things about painters who were active in the Netherlands, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jesus Christ [accept either or any reasonable equivalent]):
    Though he's mostly known for his wood cuts, Albrecht Durer also painted a Self-Portrait at 28, in which he bears a striking resemblance to depictions of this religious figure. Durer also painted this figure Among the Doctors.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck [the work is the Ghent Altarpiece]):
    A crowned Jesus is also painted holding a scepter at the center of this Netherlandish painter's most famous work, now housed in the Cathedral of St. Bavo in present-day Belgium.
  Part 3 (ans: Hans Memling):
    This man's triptych "The Last Judgment" depicts Jesus seated atop a rainbow above an armored St. Michael weighing people on a human-sized balance. He also carved and painted a reliquary for the relics of St. Ursula.

[B12] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about Nicolas Rolin, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Beaune Altarpiece [by Rogier van der Weyden]):
    Rolin commissioned this huge nine-panel altarpiece, sometimes called The Last Judgment, for its namesake hospice. Its central panel shows Jesus sitting on a rainbow above the Archangel Michael, who is weighing souls.
  Part 2 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    More famously, Chancellor Rolin commissioned this artist to paint him with the Madonna. He worked on the Ghent Altarpiece with his brother Hubert.
  Part 3 (ans: Saint Luke [or Luke the Evangelist]):
    The Madonna of Chancellor Rolin was basically copied for a Rogier van der Weyden painting of the Virgin Mary being drawn by this saint. Early modern European painters' guilds were often named for this saint.

[B13] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's Crucifixion Diptych shows St. John the Evangelist supporting a collapsing Mary on the left and Christ on the cross at right, uniting the two panels with a continuous gray wall and recurring red cloth. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rogier van der Weyden):
    Name this Flemish painter whose best-known work, The Descent from the Cross, contains numerous images of crossbows to indicate that the work was commissioned by Leuven's archers' guild.
  Part 2 (ans: St. Luke Drawing the Virgin [accept alternate wordings]):
    A small wood carving of Adam and Eve appears at the left of this van der Weyden work in which a saint in red robes is engaged in silverpoint while kneeling before Mary, who is breastfeeding.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    The triple arch that looks out onto a garden, loggia, and river winding through a cityscape are present in both St. Luke Drawing the Virgin and this artist's Madonna of Chancellor Rolin. This man painted the Ghent Altarpiece.

[B14] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some Early Netherlandish painters, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    With his brother Hubert, this artist created the Ghent Altarpiece. He also painted The Arnolfini Wedding.
  Part 2 (ans: Rogiervan der Weyden [accept either underlined portion]):
    This artist's version of The Descent from the Cross shows a skull below a fainting Mary and puts Jesus in a T-shape pose. He painted the birth, death, and resurrection of Jesus in the Miraflores Altarpiece.
  Part 3 (ans: Hugo van der Goes [or Hugo of Antwerp; or Ugo d'Anversa; prompt on Hugo]):
    This artist created a richly colored depiction of the Adoration of the Magi called the Monforte Altarpiece. Some credited Andrea del Castagno with creating this artist's famous depiction of the Adoration of the Shepherds.

[B15] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist painted a work in which the space of the middle ground is separated into three archways looking out onto a cityscape split by a river. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    Name this painter who showed the Virgin being crowned by an angel as the title Burgundian official kneels in prayer in his Madonna of Chancellor Rolin.
  Part 2 (ans: Ghent Altarpiece [or Adoration of the Mystic Lamb]):
    Jan van Eyck collaborated with his brother Hubert on this altarpiece whose lower middle panel depicts the Lamb of God surrounded by various clergy and holy men. Its Just Judges panel was stolen in 1934.
  Part 3 (ans: grisaille [prompt on "monochrome," "all gray," or "statue-like"]):
    In the closed view of the Ghent Altarpiece, John the Baptist and John the Evangelist are painted in this technique, which the van Eycks also used for the depictions of Cain and Abel resembling reliefs on the inner panels.

[B16] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these court painters, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Diego Velazquez):
    This Spanish painter is most well known for a painting in which a resplendent Infanta Margarita is surrounded by other young girls and a prostrate dog, as a man watches on from an open door in the background, Las Meninas.
  Part 2 (ans: Louise Elizabeth Vigee Le Brun):
    This French Rococoist painted Self-Portrait in a Straw Hat, as well as several portraits of Marie Antoinette.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    This painter served Philip the Good as well as John of Bavaria-Straubing. He painted Madonna of Chancellor Rolin and Portrait of a Man in a Turban, but is more well known for a large polyptych which features a radiant dove in the bottom center panel.

[B17] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One work by this artist shows its commissioner, Sir John Donne of Kidwelly, kneeling in front of a red-clothed Virgin Mary, who holds a baby Jesus reaching for a piece of fruit held by an angel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hans Memling [or Hans Memlinc]):
    Name this Netherlandish painter of the Donne Triptych, who is also known for painting six scenes of the titular saint's life on the Shrine of St. Ursula.
  Part 2 (ans: Jesus Christ's Descent from the Cross [or the Deposition of Jesus Christ]):
    Hans Memling was a pupil of Rogier van der Weyden, who painted ten people in this scene in a relatively small amount of space. In that work, a woman in blue has fainted in front of Joseph of Arimathea, who is supporting a dead body.
  Part 3 (ans: Jan van Eyck):
    Another Flemish painter active at the same time as van der Weyden was this man, whom Vasari claimed invented oil painting with his brothers Lambert and Hubert. He painted a newlywed couple in The Arnolfini Wedding.
