=== STOCK CLUES: Gluck ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 47 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 28 found, 74 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christoph Willibald Gluck (Gluck's Neapolitan rival was Niccolo Piccinni, and the libretto they both set was Iphingenie en Tauride.)
  - A feud between the king of France's mistress and the dauphine led this composer and a Neapolitan rival to write competing settings of the same libretto.
  - This composer's music comprises the majority of the operatic excerpts in the Treatise on Instrumentation by Hector Berlioz, who rearranged one of this composer's operas for an 1859 production, starring Pauline Viardot  in the main male role.
  - A preface to one of this composer's operas advocates for syllabic rather than melismatic text-setting and for abandoning da capo form.
  - Paride ed Elena is the third of three operas this composer wrote with librettist Ranieri de' Calzabigi .
  - An aria beginning with the words "Che faro senza"  appears in his 1762 "reform opera" that includes a "Dance of the Blessed Spirits." For 10 points, name this German composer of Orfeo ed Euridice . [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christoph Willibald Gluck
  - The ballet section "Dance of the Scythians" appears in an opera by this composer whose most performed aria was adapted from the aria "Se mai senti spirarti sul volto" from his version of La clemenza di Tito.
  - This composer bemoaned "tiresome ritornellos" in the printed score for an opera whose lead performs the aria "Divinites du Styx." A dancer removes a scarf cover and reveals (*) Elysium in the second act of an opera by this composer that includes the aria "Che puro ciel" .
  - The librettist Ranieri de' Calzabigi  collaborated with this composer on goals like fewer da capo arias and more accompanied recitatives , as exemplified by his opera Alceste .
  - The "Dance of the Blessed Spirits" appears in an opera by this composer whose third act centers on an escape from Hades.
  - For 10 points, name this German opera reformer who composed Iphigenie en Tauride and Orfeo ed Euridice. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 QUARTET (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Louise Gluck
  - Poet Greg Kuzma accused this author of being a "child hater" for a poem by them that begins, "You see, they have no judgment. / So it is natural that they should drown." The speaker says, "In my dream, I built a funeral pyre. / For myself...fire / seemed the right end for hunger" and says, "Nothing was lost: it was all / destroyed" in this author's poem "Inferno." In one poem by this author of "The Drowned Children," the speaker asserts that "[i]t is terrible to survive / as (*) ) consciousness / buried in the dark earth" and describes how "from the center of [their] life came...deep blue shadows on azure seawater." The speaker of another poem by this author describes "the man's mouth / sealing my mouth, the man's / paralyzing body" and asks, "[h]ow can I be content / when there is still / that odor in the world?" For 10 points, name this author of "The Wild Iris," who wrote that "I hate them as I hate sex" in her poem "Mock Orange." [PWR,GIVE]

[T4] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Louise [accept Louise Bogan; accept Louise (Elisabeth) Gluck]
  - An author with this first name witheringly asserted that "your back is my favorite part of you, / the part furthest away from your mouth" in a poem about watching the addressee garden while wearing the title "Purple Bathing Suit." A poem by another author with this first name that is set at a "house in a cave of trees" declares, "This is a dead scene forever now" after describing "bare eyes" and "hissing hair." The poem "Medusa" was written by an author with this first name who declared that the title people "have no (*) wilderness in them" in her poem "Women." An author with this first name described "flowers / lighting the yard" before declaring, "I hate them as I hate sex" in a poem that was included in the collection The Triumph of Achilles, which, alongside the later collection The Wild Iris, is considered to be a pioneering work in American feminist poetry. [PWR]
  - "Mock Orange" was written by a 2020 Nobel-winning poet with--for 10 points--what first name shared with two United States Poet Laureates with the surnames Bogan and Gluck? [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christoph Willibald Gluck
  - Janet Baker's last operatic appearance was as her signature role in an opera by this composer.
  - An unusual minor-key love song in an opera by this composer, "O del mio dolce ardor," was long misattributed to Alessandro Stradella. [PWR]
  - Cupid disguises himself as Erasto to convince Helen to love Paris in that opera, Paride ed Elena. [PWR]
  - A title character in another of this composer's operas sings the aria "Che puro ciel" after arriving in Elysium. [PWR]
  - This composer's librettist (*) Ranieri de' Calzabigi wrote a preface to another opera that highlights this composer's move to deemphasize the da capo arias and secco recitative.
  - After the rondo "Che faro senza," Amore brings one of the title characters back to life in an opera by this composer that includes the "Dance of the Blessed Spirits." For 10 points, name this German composer of the reform operas Alceste and Orfeo ed Euridice. [GIVE]

[T6] 2021 Scattergories (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: the poet's house burning down [or house fire; accept clear equivalents, and prompt on partial answers] (The two poems are Louise Gluck's "Inferno" and Anne Bradstreet's "Verses upon the Burning of Our House.")
  - This type of tragedy inspired a poem that repeats the question "Why did you move away?", from the collection Vita Nova. [PWR]
  - Louise Gluck started writing The Triumph of Achilles after suffering this type of tragedy in 1980.
  - Will Shortz's favorite word is "ucalegon," which is a reference to a character in the Aeneid who suffers this type of tragedy.
  - A poem inspired by this type of tragedy declares "Adieu, Adieu, all's vanity" before describing a place which is "purchased and paid for too / by (*) Him who hath enough to do." After this type of tragedy takes place on a "silent night," the poet laments that "no pleasant talk shall here be told / nor things recounted done of old," but nonetheless takes solace in the fact that her "hope and treasure lies above." For 10 points, name this type of tragedy that, in 1666, destroyed most of Anne Bradstreet's possessions. [PWR,GIVE]

[T7] 2021 Halloween Contemporary Poetry Packet (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Louise (Elisabeth) Gluck
  - In a poem by this poet, the speaker "taped a sign over the mirror:/You cannot hate matter and love form." That poem by this poet ends with the lines "AIAIAIAI cried/the naked mirror." At the end of another poem by this poet, the speaker says, "after the first cries,/doesn't joy, like fear, make no sound?" This poet wrote a poem titled "Archaic Fragment" for a poetry collection that centers around Persephone and her marriage to Hades.
  - A poetry collection by this poet based on the Odyssey includes a poem that ends, "you are a small irritating (*) purple thing/and I would like to see you walk off the face of the earth/because you are all that's wrong with my life/and I need you and I claim you." This poet of "Purple Bathing Suit" also wrote a poem that ends, "How can I be content/when there is still/that odor in the world?" This poet wrote the collections Meadowlands and Averno. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this American poet who included the poem "Mock Orange" in her collection The Wild Iris and who won the 2020 Nobel Prize in Literature. [GIVE]

[T8] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Louise Gluck ("glick") [or Louise Elisabeth Gluck]
  - This poet contemplates "greedy ants" crawling over a hurt caterpillar in a poem about a "friend who still believes in heaven." This poet notes how "the one who has been abandoned" is always the "survivor" in a poem which begins by noting "In the story of Patroclus / no one survives." A third poem by this author takes the perspective of an organism whose "consciousness" is "buried in the dark earth," where "whatever returns from oblivion returns to find a voice." This author of "Celestial Music" wrote the collection The (*) Triumph of Achilles, which contains an oft-anthologized poem whose speaker detests the "low, humiliating premise of union." That poem by this author asks "How can I be content when there is still that odor in this world?" after smelling the scent of the title flower.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Wild Iris" and "Mock Orange" who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2020. [GIVE]

[T9] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christoph Willibald (von) Gluck
  - This composer's rivalry with Niccolo Piccinni was so widely known and controversial that Parisians would open conversations by asking which side the other favoured.
  - Janet Baker's final operatic performance was as one of the title characters of this composer's opera which opens with a chorus lamenting 'Ah, se intorno!' The first act of another opera by this composer ends with the title character singing the aria "Divinites du Styx", resolving to die for their husband.
  - The poor reception of (*) Echo et Narcisse led to this composer's retirement to Vienna.
  - This composer collaborated with Ranieri de' Calzabigi to shift power from the singers to the composer and conductor through the modification or abolition of the da capo aria, as in a 'reform opera' which contains a 'Dance of the Blessed Spirits'.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of Iphigenie en Tauride and Orfeo ed Euridice. [GIVE]

[T10] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christoph Willibald Gluck
  - This composer's music for a "ballet-pantomime" with choreography by Gasparo Angiolini has a 30th movement larghetto with grounded bass before a final movement "Dance of the Furies." He's not Strauss, but this composer of the ballet Don Juan used Philippe Quinault's  libretto for Lully as the basis of the opera Armide .
  - This composer collaborated with the librettist (*) Ranieri de' Calzabigi  on three operas that do not make use of da capo arias or secco recatives as set out in the manifesto that was published with this composer's opera Alceste. [PWR]
  - A reform opera by this composer contains an Act 2 ballet known as the "Dance of the Blessed Spirits." For 10 points, name this German composer of the reform opera Orfeo ed Euridice. [GIVE]

[T11] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Louise Gluck [or Louise Elisabeth Gluck]
  - The final poem of one of this poet's collections declares that "problems of sexuality need not / trouble us here" because a recurring character is dead.
  - This poet stated that a "daughter's body / doesn't exist, except / as a branch of the mother's body," in detailing a "second version" of the Persephone myth.
  - This poet wrote, "I would like to see you walk off the face of the earth / because you are all that's wrong with my life / and I need you and I claim you," in a poem about the addressee's title "Purple Bathing Suit." This poet used the Odyssey as a basis for her collection Meadowlands.
  - A poem by this woman asks, "Do you see? / we were made fools of," and closes by wondering, "How can I rest? / how can I be content / when there is still / that odor in the world?" In that poem, this author wrote of the title flowers, "I hate them. / I hate them as I hate sex." Averno and The Wild Iris are collections by, for 10 points, what American poet who wrote "Mock Orange" and served as Poet Laureate in 2003? [GIVE]

[T12] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christoph Willibald (Ritter von) Gluck
  - Early on, this composer was insulted when Handel claimed that his cook knew more counterpoint this man. [PWR]
  - In Act 2 of one of this man's operas, the protagonist has a nightmare after singing that "calm returns to my heart" over an extremely agitated-sounding accompaniment.
  - The title character of one of his operas admires the fresh air in the aria "Che puro ciel" . [PWR]
  - This composer was the main operatic model for Hector Berlioz. [PWR]
  - This composer collaborated with the librettist (*) Calzabigi to get rid of plain recitatives, static da capo arias, and other "overcomplicated" and "undramatic" conventions, principles set out in the preface to Alceste. [PWR]
  - He included the ballet "Dance of the Blessed Spirits" and the aria "Che faro senza Euridice"  in a 1762 opera.
  - For 10 points, name this reformer of 18th-century opera who wrote Iphigenie en Tauride and Orfeo ed Euridice. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about contemporary American poetry inspired by the Odyssey, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Louise Gluck):
    This poet retold the Odyssey in her 1996 book Meadowlands and retold part of the Iliad in her collection The Triumph of Achilles. This author of The Wild Iris won the 2020 Nobel Prize in Literature and died in 2023.
  Part 2 (ans: Night Sky with Exit Wounds (by Ocean Vuong)):
    The Odyssey informs the titles of this collection's poems "Telemachus," "Trojan," and "Odysseus Redux." A poem from this collection imagines "you take the knife to the wall" and opens, "suppose you do change your life."
  Part 3 (ans: birds [accept Bird Odyssey; accept "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"]):
    Barbara Hamby retold the Odyssey in six sonnets in a 2018 collection titled for the "Odyssey" of one of these animals. Wallace Stevens wrote about "Thirteen Ways of Looking at" one of these animals.

[B2] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The title character of an opera by this composer resolves to sacrifice herself to save her husband in the aria "Divinites du Styx" ("dee-vee-nee-TAY doo STEEKS"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck [or Christoph Willibald Ritter von Gluck]):
    Name this composer of Alceste, whose Italian version was published with a preface that decried da capo arias and secco recitatives.
  Part 2 (ans: Jean-Jacques Rousseau (Better known for other work.)):
    The French version of Gluck's Alceste addressed this critic's complaint that the Italian version was monotonous and put all the best arias in Act I. This composer and critic argued that the French language was too harsh to be used in opera during the War of the Buffoons.
  Part 3 (ans: Orpheus [or Orfeo; or Orphee; accept Orfeo ed Euridice or Orphee et Eurydice; accept L'Orfeo]):
    Gluck added the "Dance of the Blessed Spirits" to the 1774 French version of a 1762 opera partially titled for this man. A Monteverdi opera titled for this mythological figure is the oldest to be regularly performed.

[B3] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera's title character begs the "implacable goddess" Diana to give her the ferocity to kill her brother in her aria, "Je t'implore et je tremble." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Iphigenie en Tauride [or Iphigenia in Tauris]):
    Name this opera that swaps an overture for a short, calm passage preceding a more aggressive depiction of a storm at sea. Nicolas-Francois Guillard wrote the libretto to this opera, which includes a part for King Thoas.
  Part 2 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck [or Christoph Willibald Ritter von Gluck]):
    Iphigenia in Tauris was written by this composer, who wrote a mythologically inspired "reform opera" that includes the aria "Che faro senza" and an Act 2 ballet sequence.
  Part 3 (ans: German [or Deutsch]):
    Though originally written in French, Gluck wrote a version of Iphigenia in Tauris in this language for the visit of Grand Duke Paul. Der Freischutz is an opera in this language by Carl Maria von Weber.

[B4] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author added "Amadeus" to his name after writing a story in which a character dreams of two titans who represent the root and fifth of a triad. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: E. T. A. Hoffmann [or Ernst Theodore Amadeus Hoffmann]):
    What author inspired a Tchaikovsky ballet by writing "The Nutcracker and the Mouse King"?
  Part 2 (ans: "Ritter Gluck"):
    In this Hoffman story, a strange man from the Tiergarten relays a dream about a disembodied eye that promises the sweet voice of thirds. This story's title character sings an aria from blank pages then claims to be a dead composer.
  Part 3 (ans: Tomcat Murr [accept The Life and Opinions of Tomcat Murr]):
    Because this Hoffmann character used a biography of Kapellmeister Kreisler as blotting paper, pages of the biography are mixed with his memoirs. This highly intelligent tomcat lives with the alchemist Master Abraham.

[B5] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Science
     Leadin: "Fractional" examples of these devices correspond to a fractional order between -1 and 0 in the constant phase element model. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: capacitors [or fractional capacitors; or supercapacitors; or pseudocapacitors]):
    Name these devices whose "pseudo" form operate via charge transfer at their electrodes, such as by undergoing a redox reaction. Another type of these devices operates via the formation of a Helmholtz double layer.
  Part 2 (ans: dielectrics):
    Non-supercapacitors often have their capacitance increased by inserting one of these polarizable materials between their electrodes.
  Part 3 (ans: the force on the dielectric [or the force on the capacitor; prompt on F] (see Eric Dietz, "Force on a dielectric slab: Fringing field approach" and Paul Gluck, ''Force on the dielectric in a parallel plate capacitor'' for some extremely cool physics involving directly calculating the force from the fringing field)):
    This quantity for a dielectric is only non-zero due to the capacitor's fringing field, making it hard to compute. Instead, most textbooks derive the equation for this quantity via an energy method in which the dielectric is moved infinitesimally.

[B6] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A painting by this artist was inspired by watching Don Giovanni with a lover and feeling that the "intensity of the music fused them both into one person." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gluck [or Hannah Gluckstein]):
    Name this mononymous British artist, who painted a profile-self-portrait along Nesta Obermer's profile in Medallion. This painter of Three Nifty Nats names a type of three-tiered frame that they created.
  Part 2 (ans: Romaine Brooks):
    Gluck was painted as Peter: A Young English Girl by this Paris-based artist. This lover of Natalie Barney used black and shades of gray in her androgynous self-portraits.
  Part 3 (ans: boxing [or prizefighting; prompt on fighting]):
    A Gluck painting shows this activity taking place at the Royal Albert Hall. George Bellows's pictures of this activity include Stag at Sharkey's and Both Members of this Club.

[B7] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera was first premiered with a preface by Ranieri de' Calzabigi with a list of reformatory maxims, including a ban on both melismas and improvisation. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alceste):
    Name this 1767 opera, an adaptation of a Euripedes work. Mozart may have plagiarized this opera for the garden scene in Don Giovanni.
  Part 2 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck):
    Alceste was composed by this German, and continued his break from the Baroque operatic tradition that originated in his Orpheus and Eurydice.
  Part 3 (ans: Pietro Metastasio [or Pietro Antonio Domenico Trapassi]):
    This pseudonymous librettist embodied many of the Baroque traditions Gluck sought to escape in works such as Artasirse. His works are rarely performed today due to their abundance of difficult castrato roles.

[B8] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Karl Donitz pushed for the use of these submarines during the Battle of the Atlantic. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: U-boats [or U-boot or Unterseeboot]):
    Name these submarines that Donitz continued to deploy against Allied convoys when he became admiral of the Kriegsmarine.
  Part 2 (ans: happy time [or gluckliche Zeit or golden time; accept First Happy Time or Second Happy Time]):
    Donitz's predecessor, Erich Raeder, had steered the Kriegsmarine to military success in the Battle of the Atlantic during two periods given this nickname by prideful U-boat crews.
  Part 3 (ans: wolfpack tactic [or Rudeltaktik or pack tactic]):
    While a prisoner of war during World War I, Donitz reportedly devised this formational tactic that U-boats used to great effect during World War II, bucking conventional wisdom that submarines operated alone.

[B9] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about opera composers who crossed paths with Marie Antoinette, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck [or Christoph Willibald Ritter von Gluck]):
    This music teacher of Marie Antoinette composed Iphigenie en Aulide. Earlier, this composer wrote another classically themed opera, Orfeo ed Euridice ("ew-ree-DEE-cheh").
  Part 2 (ans: Chevalier de Saint-Georges [or Joseph Bologne]):
    After Marie Antoinette failed to advocate for his placement as director of the Paris Opera, this biracial Guadeloupean composer played in her private quarters instead. This composer's only surviving opera is L'Amant anonyme.
  Part 3 (ans: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart):
    Apocryphally, this composer promised to marry Marie Antoinette after he performed for her at age six. This man composed Cosi fan tutte and The Magic Flute.

[B10] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Wagner cited this composer as a predecessor of his own idea of the Gesamtkunstwerk ["geh-ZAMT-kunst-verk"] because of the changes to operatic norms that this composer advocated in an essay. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck):
    Name this composer who attacked the artificiality of opera seria and laid out his own ideals for opera in the preface to the score of his opera Alceste ["al-CHES-te"]. He first used those reform principles in his earlier opera Orfeo ed Euridice ["or-FAY-oh ed yoo-ree-DEE-chay"].
  Part 2 (ans: arias):
    Gluck attacked opera seria's use of the often overly-long "da capo" form of these passages. Gluck sought to reduce the distinction between these virtuosic solo vocal passages and their more speechlike counterpart, recitatives.
  Part 3 (ans: Iphigenie en Tauride ("ee-fee-zhay-NEE on toh-REED") [or Iphigenie auf Tauris; or Iphigenia in Tauris]):
    Gluck's reforms were most extensive in this Euripides-based opera, which has a scene in which the orchestral accompaniment shows that the singer is lying. This opera opens with a short passage depicting calm turning into a storm that leads directly into the first act.

[B11] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of the foremost members of this profession in the Baroque period was Pietro Metastasio, whose work Adriano in Siria was used by more than sixty composers. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: librettist [accept any answer involving the author of the libretto]):
    Name this profession. Members of this profession collaborate with composers by writing text for operas.
  Part 2 (ans: opera seria):
    Metastasio is associated with this movement of opera that employs castrati singers and secco recitatives, in contrast to a rival style exemplified by Giovanni Pergolesi's intermezzo La serva padrona.
  Part 3 (ans: Christoph Willibald Ritter von Gluck):
    This composer led the break from the opera seria tradition by eliminating da capo arias and by employing recitatives accompanied by the orchestra, as exhibited in his opera Iphigenie en Tauride.

[B12] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about queer contemporary authors from California, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Anthony Veasna So):
    In 2021, this Cambodian-American author's only collection of short stories was published less than a year after he died of a drug overdose. Many of the stories in this author's collection Afterparties describe his youth as a gay Cambo in Stockton.
  Part 2 (ans: blue [accept Bluets]):
    Queer author Maggie Nelson was inspired by Joan Mitchell paintings to write a prose poetry collection meditating on this color. This primary color dominates the famous cover of The Great Gatsby painted by Francis Cugat.
  Part 3 (ans: Gluck ("glick") [accept Louise Gluck or Louise Elisabeth Gluck; accept Robert Gluck]):
    A queer poet with this surname co-founded the New Narrative movement in San Francisco with Bruce Boone. Another poet with this surname wrote the collection The Wild Iris and won the 2020 Nobel Prize in Literature.

[B13] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The aria "Delizie, contente" is sung by the title character of Francesco Cavalli's Giasone, who was this kind of singer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: castrato [or castrati]):
    Name this type of male singer popular in the Italian Baroque opera. It was sung by adult men who never underwent the usual vocal changes during puberty, allowing them to develop a powerful high-pitched voice.
  Part 2 (ans: George Frederick Handel [or George Frideric Handel; or Georg Friederich Handel]):
    Senesino and Farinelli were among the castrati who often premiered roles by this composer in operas like Giulio Cesare and Serse, the latter of which features the aria "Ombra mai fu."
  Part 3 (ans: Orpheus and Eurydice (yur-ID-uh-see) [or Orfeo ed Euridice; or Orphee et Eurydice] (by Christoph Willibald Gluck)):
    The lead male role in this opera was sung by a castrato in its Viennese premiere, but not its reworked French premiere. This opera's extensive ballet sequences include the "Dance of the Blessed Spirits."

[B14] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This composer departed from opera seria by de-emphasizing embellishment to achieve "noble simplicity." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck):
    What German composer worked with librettist Ranieri de Calzabigi to "reform" opera in works such as Alceste?
  Part 2 (ans: Iphigenie [accept Iphigenia; accept Iphigenie en Aulide or Iphigenie en Tauride]):
    Gluck wrote two reform operas centered on this character in two places. Gluck's rival Niccolo Piccinni wrote a less successful version of the second of those two operas, where this woman serves the Scythian king Thoas.
  Part 3 (ans: Paris):
    Gluck and Piccinni feuded while composing in this city. Modern-day opera performances in this city take place in the Palais Garnier or Opera Bastille.

[B15] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The soprano solos in the 'Christe eleison' and 'Et incarnatus est' sections of the Great Mass in C Minor were written to be performed by this person. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maria Constanze Cacilia Josepha Johanna Aloysia Weber or Mozart or von Nissen [prompt on Weber, Constanze, or 'Mozart's wife']):
    Name this singer, who collaborated with Franz Xaver Niemetschek on a biography of her first husband.
  Part 2 (ans: The Queen of the Night [or Astrifiammante or die Konigin der Nacht]):
    Josepha, the eldest of Constanze's sisters, premiered coloratura arias such as 'Der Holle Rache' as this character in The Magic Flute.
  Part 3 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck):
    Before courting Constanze, Mozart wrote many pieces for her sister Aloysia, including the exceptionally high aria 'Popoli di Tessaglia!', an insert for this composer's opera Alceste. After this composer suffered a stroke, their protege Salieri took over the composition of Les Danaides.

[B16] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The mezzo-soprano Cecilia Bartoli helped revive interest in this composer when she released a 2003 album consisting of thirteen arias from his various operas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Salieri):
    Name this Classical composer of Twenty-Six Variations for the Orchestra on a Theme called La Folia di Spagna. This Kapellmeister also wrote many operas for Joseph II, including Les Danaides ("lay da-na-EED").
  Part 2 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck [or Christoph Willibald Ritter von Gluck]):
    The music for Les Danaides was supposed to be written by this German composer and protege of Salieri, but he suffered a stroke and had Salieri take the commission instead. This composer wrote the reform opera Orfeo ed Euridice ("ew-ree-DEE-cheh").
  Part 3 (ans: trombones):
    Scholars have argued that Salieri's use of these low brass instruments for comical effect in Les Danaides influenced orchestration styles for later Classical operas. They primarily control pitch using their slides.

[B17] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: After a worker from one of these two countries stole a vacuum bag-full of jewelry from a palace in the other, the jewels returned by police from the first of them turned out to be mostly counterfeit. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia AND the Kingdom of Thailand (to be clear, a guy from Thailand stole the jewels from a Saudi prince)):
    Name these two countries, whose relations were tainted by the insane 1989 Blue Diamond Affair, which escalated when multiple diplomats from one, like Muhammad al-Ruwayli, were coincidentally murdered in the other the next year.
  Part 2 (ans: Rama):
    Thailand's king at the time of the Blue Diamond Affair was Bhumibol Adulyadej ("POO-mee-pon AH-doon-YAH-det"), who took this regnal name like every other member of the Chakri Dynasty. Bhumibol's ("POO-mee-pon's") son became the tenth king of this name in 2016.
  Part 3 (ans: Shinawatra (respectively, Thaksin and Yingluck)):
    A politician and ex-cellphone magnate of this surname was ousted as Prime Minister of Thailand in 2006 for similar levels of corruption. The current Thai military regime dates from a coup against that politician's sister.

[B18] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This opera's lack of secco recitatives and use of a syllabic text setting are among the reforms set out in a manifesto by its composer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alceste):
    Name this opera whose title Queen of Thessaly sings the aria, Divinites des Styx, in which she resolves to sacrifice herself to save her husband.
  Part 2 (ans: Orfeo ed Euridice [accept Orpheus and Eurydice, do NOT accept or prompt on "Orfeo"]):
    In this opera's trio Si les doux accords, Amore sets out the conditions to a title character for returning successfully from the underworld. Amore later convinces that character not to commit suicide after his failure in the aria Tendre amour.
  Part 3 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck):
    Both Alceste and Orfeo ed Euridice are among this composers "reform operas." This composer returned to Vienna from Paris after a poor reception to their opera Echo et Narcisse.

[B19] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: A book titled for this person theorizes that Bertrande accepted the man who took his name due to the importance of having a male spouse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Guerre [prompt on Martin]):
    Name this man who dramatically returned from the Italian Wars just as the man impersonating him, Arnaud du Tilh, was about to be acquitted, leading to the latter's conviction and hanging.
  Part 2 (ans: earlymodern period):
    Natalie Zemon Davis, the University of Toronto historian who wrote The Return of Martin Guerre, specializes in the study of this era of European history, which falls between the Middle Ages and the Industrial Revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: Gluckel of Hameln [accept similar pronunciations; accept Glikl; accept Glikl bas Judah Leib]):
    Davis's Women on the Margins partly profiles this other woman, a 17th century Jewish diarist whose works have been monumental in characterizing the role of women and of the ghetto in early modern Jewish society.

[B20] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these other contemporary poets:
  Part 1 (ans: Adrienne Rich):
    This author wrote that "I have to cast my lot with those" who "reconstitute the world" in her poem "Natural Resources." She also wrote "Diving into the Wreck."
  Part 2 (ans: Louise Gluck):
    A journey to an other world of consciousness causes a great fountain of "azure seawater" to emerge from the center of the speaker's life at the end of this author's poem "The Wild Iris."

[B21] 2017 Oxford Open (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This piece was completed in the Grand Hotel, Eastbourne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Mer [or The Sea]):
    Name these "three symphonic sketches" by Debussy, whose movements use evocation rather than onomatopeia to evoke their titular subject.
  Part 2 (ans: Calm Sea and Prosperous Voyage [or Meeresstille und gluckliche Fahrt]):
    Elgar quoted this maritime concert overture by Mendelssohn in the Enigma Variations. This work is based on verses by Goethe which Beethoven had adapted as a cantata with the same name.
  Part 3 (ans: Ralph Vaughan Williams):
    This British composer's first symphony includes text by Walt Whitman and is titled for the Sea. This composer's other works include Fantasy on a Theme by Thomas Tallis and The Lark Ascending.

[B22] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This text notes a desire to avoid interrupting an "actor in the greatest heat of dialogue" with a "tiresome ritornello," and claims that an overture "ought to apprise the spectator of the action to be represented." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: preface to Alceste [or foreword to Alceste or dedication of Alceste; accept, but DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL, Christoph (Willibald) Gluck's preface to Alceste]):
    Name this statement of principles, probably co-authored by librettist Ranieri da Calzabigi, which describes a desire to "free" an opera whose protagonist sings "Divinites du Styx" from "all the abuses that have crept in."
  Part 2 (ans: Christoph (Willibald) Gluck):
    This composer's preface to Alceste laid out the precepts of his "reform operas," which included Orfeo ed Euridice.
  Part 3 (ans: Paride ed Elena [or Paris and Helen]):
    Gluck also partnered with Calzabigi on this third reform opera, whose title male protagonist sings the aria "O del mio dolce ardor." In this opera, Erasto turns out to be Cupid in disguise.

[B23] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Except for the first part of the double finale, all movements of this F-sharp minor symphony are in triple time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Farewell Symphony [accept Symphony No. 45; or Abschieds-Symphonie]):
    Name this symphony from Joseph Haydn's Sturm und Drang period. The musicians at its premiere snuffed out their candles and left the stage one at a time to give the hint that they wanted to leave Esterhaza.
  Part 2 (ans: Symphony No. 85 [accept "La Reine" or "The Queen"]):
    After a dotted introduction, this B-flat major Haydn symphony's monothematic exposition features a held oboe note over a descending scale and quotes Farewell. This fourth Paris symphony, Marie Antoinette's favorite, includes variations on "La gentille et jeune Lisette" ("la jon-TEE yay juhn lee-ZET").
  Part 3 (ans: Christoph Willibald von Gluck):
    This composer's ballet Don Juan has a fearsome Sturm und Drang finale. He reformed opera with Calzabigi ("kalt-sah-BEE-jee") in Orfeo ed Euridice and Alceste, integrating overtures and using music to reflect drama not vocality.

[B24] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem's speaker expresses disgust at "the man's mouth sealing my mouth, the man's paralyzing body." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Mock Orange"):
    Name this poem. Referring to the title flower, the speaker concludes this poem by asking, "How can I be content when there is still that odor in the world?"
  Part 2 (ans: Louise (Elisabeth) Gluck):
    "Mock Orange" was written by this contemporary American poet, a professor at Yale who succeeded Billy Collins as U.S. Poet Laureate from 2003 to 2004. She won a Pulitzer for her collection The Wild Iris and the Bollingen Prize for her collection Vita Nova.
  Part 3 (ans: Achilles):
    Gluck wrote a collection titled for the "triumph" of this Homeric hero, in which the title poem recounts his love for Patroclus.

[B25] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Berlioz suggested that Mozart plagiarized some of the Commendatore's music in Don Giovanni from this opera, in which the title character sings "Divinites du Styx." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alceste [grudgingly accept Alcestis]):
    Name this 1767 opera. It was the second "reform opera" its composer wrote with Ranieri de' Calzabigi, after Orfeo de Euridice, and was written before his French-language operas about Iphigenia.
  Part 2 (ans: Christoph Willibald Gluck):
    This 18th-century German composer wrote the music for Alceste and Orfeo ed Euridice, the latter of which contains his most famous aria, "Che faro senza Euridice."
  Part 3 (ans: Niccolo Piccinni [in a rare exception to the vowel rule, do NOT accept or prompt on "Puccini," as that's a different composer!]):
    In the 1770's-80's, Parisian operagoers were divided between "Gluckists" and fans of this Neapolitan composer of La Cecchina, a favorite of Marie Antoinette. The Paris Opera commissioned him and Gluck to write rival settings of Iphigenie en Tauride.
