=== STOCK CLUES: Fernando Pessoa ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 33 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 14 found, 41 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ricardo Reis [prompt on Fernando Pessoa until read]
  - While visiting a tomb after a long boat trip, this character ponders what to eat for lunch while imagining an old woman watching over the body of her grandson.
  - The odes written by this character were first published in the short-lived Athena magazine and were compared to Horace's in a fake review.
  - In a novel, this character is described as constantly carrying and reading a copy of the fictional book The God of the Labyrinth.
  - This character confesses his relationship struggles with Lydia and Marcendo during one of his periodic conversations with his creator.
  - In that novel, this character dies by following his creator into the grave to the "other" Lisbon.
  - For 10 points, what heteronym of Fernando Pessoa is the subject of a novel by Jose Saramago titled for the year of his death? [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Fernando Pessoa ("peh-SOH-uh") [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira de Seabra Pessoa; prompt on Ricardo Reis or Ricardo Reis until read; prompt on The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis or O Ano da Morte de Ricardo Reis until read]
  - Over a glass of Colares Chita, this man cites Kafka to illustrate how "cowardice produced some of the bravest writing of the century." A doctor stalks a man in a skeleton costume at Carnival after mistaking him for this man.
  - A roaming author awaits a spirit of this man called the Guest in Antonio Tabucchi's  novel Requiem: A Hallucination.
  - This man uses a womb-like period of nine months "to achieve total oblivion" in a novel that ends with the protagonist donning a jacket and following him into a cemetery.
  - A man created by this author sleeps with the hotel maid Lydia and reads Herbert Quain's The God of the Labyrinth aboard an ocean liner on his return from Brazil to a city where he converses with the ghost of this poet.
  - For 10 points, Jose Saramago's The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis depicts a "heteronym" of what Portuguese poet? [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 TELEOLOGY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Fernando Pessoa's heteronyms
  - The amnesiac protagonist, who forgets his life but remembers arcane literary facts, wakes up in Guanajuato with an ID card indicating that he is one of these figures in Jim Gauer's Novel Explosives. [PWR]
  - Lesser known examples of these figures include the Baron of Tieve, whose insistence on living only according to reason led him to commit suicide, and the long-bearded astrologer Raphael Baldaya. [PWR]
  - One of these figures wrote "How should I know what I'll be, I who don't know what I am?" in the poem "The (*) Tobacco Shop."One of these figures studied naval engineering in Scotland before becoming a Futurist and then a sentimentalist who wrote about his childhood.
  - An Epicurean one of these figures exiled to Brazil following a failed 1919 rebellion talks to the ghost of the author who created him in a 1984 novel.
  - Jose Saramago wrote that novel, titled for the "Year of the Death of" one of these figures.
  - For 10 points, Alberto Caeiro, Bernardo Soares, and Ricardo Reis are among what set of names denoting differing styles used by the Portuguese author of The Book of Disquiet? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa; accept Alberto Caeiro or Bernardo Soares; accept Ricardo Reis until read] (The book in the second sentence is Mensagem.)
  - Scattered colored lines obscure a photo of this author on the cover of a 2020 New Directions edition of his "complete works" whose opening section, The Keeper of Sheep, was written on a "triumphant day." This writer for the magazine Orpheus declared myth the "nothing that is everything" in the poem "Ulysses," which is included in a book inspired by his country's coat of arms. [PWR]
  - Richard Zenith and Margaret Jull Costa struggled to order a fragmentary book discovered posthumously in one of this author's trunks that consists of a (*) bookkeeper's musings framed as a "factless autobiography." The ghost of this author encounters a doctor created by this author in the novel The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, which was written by his compatriot Jose Saramago. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese author who used one of his many "heteronyms" to write The Book of Disquiet. [GIVE]

[T5] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Fernando Pessoa [prompt on Vicente Guedes before "imagining"; prompt on Bernardo Soares; reject all other heteronyms as none but these two are relevant to the question]
  - This man published a piece set in a "Forest of Estrangement" that later appeared in a larger work.
  - This man encouraged "imagining an orgasm with Man A while copulating with Man B" in one text's "Advice to Unhappily Married Women." This man wrote that life's great tragedies include having read The Pickwick Papers, because one can't go back and read it a first time.
  - This man wrote several fragments set during rainy days in the fourth-floor apartment of a man whose boss is named Vasques .
  - Many "Dolorous Interludes" dot an English translation of writing by this man which was compiled from over 500 sheets in a suitcase after his 1935 death.
  - Richard Zenith translated a "factless autobiography" by this man credited to bookkeeper Bernardo Soares.
  - For 10 points, name this man who ruminated on unease in The Book of Disquiet, a Portuguese author with many "heteronyms." [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa; accept Ricardo Reis or Vicente Guedes before mentioned; or Alberto Caeiro; or Bernardo Soares]
  - This man's translator Richard Zenith noted how, as a teenager in Durban, South Africa, he designed elaborate English-language newspapers filled with fake events.
  - This author correctly prophesied his posthumous legacy in the line "roots may be hidden in the ground / But their flowers flower in the open air for all to see" in his poem "If I Die Young." A character created by this author dies in his mid-twenties from tuberculous after penning lines such as, "I thank God I'm not good." Margaret Jull Costa's "complete" edition of this poet's seminal collection is ordered chronologically, opening with a poem that declares, "My soul is a hidden orchestra." Many of the earliest poems in Jull's editions are purportedly by Vicente Guedes, whereas others are ascribed to a doctor named Ricardo Reis.
  - For 10 points, name this Portuguese poet of The Book of Disquiet, known for his heteronyms. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Fernando Pessoa [prompt on his heteronyms; the most common ones include Alberto Caeiro, Alvaro de Campos, Ricardo Reis (before mentioned), and Bernardo Soares, but a full list is ]
  - In a short section of one work, this poet asserted that "to have touched the feet of Christ is no excuse for mistakes in punctuation". [PWR]
  - This non-Tennyson poet described how "myth is the nothing that means everything" in his poem Ulisses.
  - This best-known member of the Orpheu movement structured one (*) 44-poem collection around his nation's coat of arms, and also wrote a lengthy "factless autobiography" about the isolated office clerk Bernardo Soares. [PWR]
  - A frequent user of "heteronyms" like Ricardo Reis, for 10 points, name this Portuguese poet of The Book of Disquiet and Message. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's experiments with opium during a passage through the Suez Canal inspired his gloomy poem "Opiario." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alvaro de Campos [prompt on Fernando Pessoa]):
    Name this literary alter ego with a fictional biography as a polemic Glasgow-educated sailor and devotee of Walt Whitman. Poems credited to this author include "Ode of Triumph" and "The Tobacco Shop."
  Part 2 (ans: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or Republica Portuguesa]):
    Alvaro de Campos was one of the "heteronyms" used by Fernando Pessoa, a poet from this country. Pessoa's heteronym Ricardo Reis was fictionalized in a novel by another author from this country, Jose Saramago.
  Part 3 (ans: Orpheus [accept Orpheu or Orfeu; accept Sonnets to Orpheus] (Rainer Maria Rilke wrote the Sonnets to Orpheus.)):
    Pessoa published the Alvaro de Campos poem "Opiario" in a modernist journal named for this figure. Another poet wrote 55 poems dedicated to this figure during a "creative storm" at the Chateau de Muzot ("moo-ZO").

[B2] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this group known as the "Master" wrote the collection The Keeper of Sheep and published a "General Program" of neopaganism. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms of Fernando Pessoa [accept pseudonyms of Fernando Pessoa or alter egos of Fernando Pessoa; prompt on heteronyms]):
    Name this group of writers, including the poets Alberto Caeiro ("al-BAIR-too kah-AY-roo") and Alvaro de Campos ("ALL-vah-roo dee KAM-poosh"). Bernando Soares ("ber-NAR-doo SWARSH"), a writer accorded semi-membership in this group, is the attributed author of The Book of Disquiet.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    The heteronym Ricardo Reis ("ree-CAR-doo RAYSH") is the subject of a later novel by this Portuguese author of Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: crossword puzzles [prompt on puzzles or games] (The Pessoa heteronym is "A.A. Crosse")):
    An English heteronym of Pessoa with first and middle initials "A.A." is named in reference to these constructs, one of which begins chapter 2 of Laszlo Krasznahorkai's Seiobo There Below. These constructs also inspired Milorad Pavic's ("PAH-vitch's") Landscape Painted with Tea.

[B3] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a sequel to this novel, a dog who licked the tears off "the doctor's wife" is named Constant. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Blindness [or Essay on Blindness; or Ensaio sobre a cegueira]):
    Name this Jose Saramago novel, in which "the doctor's wife" is unaffected by the title condition, while an ophthalmologist and several of his patients are.
  Part 2 (ans: Cain (The Unamuno novel is Abel Sanchez)):
    The final manuscript Saramago wrote and submitted was named for this character. Joaquin Monegro is a parallel of this character and hates an artist surnamed Sanchez in a novel by Miguel Unamuno.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Pessoa):
    In another Saramago novel, this author's death prompts his heteronym, Ricardo Reis, to return to Portugal. This author of several odes about Ricardo Reis wrote The Book of Disquiet.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The first part of a collection by this author, "The Fields," opens with the line, "Europe is lying propped up on her elbows." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa]):
    Name this author of the poetry collection Mensagem, or Message.
  Part 2 (ans: Ulysses [or Odysseus] (The other poem is "Ulysses" by Tennyson.)):
    Mensagem contains a poem titled for this person that begins "Myth - nothing, everything." In a poem by a different author, this person wishes "To strive, to seek, to find, but not to yield."
  Part 3 (ans: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or Republica Portuguesa]):
    Pessoa hails from this Iberian country, whose national epic is The Lusiads by Luis de Camoes ("Cah-moysh").

[B5] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Attempts to capture this author's rhyme of "mundo" and "Raimundo" in English include "World so large, world so wide, / if my name were Clyde, / it would be a rhyme but not an answer." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carlos Drummond de Andrade ("jee on-DRAH-jee") [prompt on de Andrade]):
    Name this author of "Seven-Sided Poem." This author wrote "The party's over, / the lights are off, / the / crowd's gone, / the night's gone cold, / what now?" in a poem addressed to a bored apartment dweller named Jose ("zhoo-ZEH").
  Part 2 (ans: magazines [or newspapers; or journals; or periodicals; accept literary journals]):
    Besides being arguably the most popular poet in Brazil, Drummond also wrote a large output of cronica, which are short, informal prose pieces that appear in this medium. Examples of this medium include Granta.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa]):
    Richard Zenith, who translated Drummond in Multitudinous Heart, is better known for his recent biography of this author. Scholars are still working to edit a 25 thousand page manuscript left by this author in a wooden trunk.

[B6] 2022 ACF Regionals (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poem by this figure states, "We're stories telling stories." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ricardo Reis ("race") [prompt on, BUT DO NOT OTHERWISE REVEAL, Fernando Pessoa] (The last line refers to Reis's writing to Alvaro de Campos.)):
    Name this figure, the author of an ode that claims, "Only he is free / to whom the gods grant nothing." This doctor wrote many Greek-inspired odes to Lydia and corresponded with a bisexual futurist naval engineer.
  Part 2 (ans: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa]):
    Richardo Reis was a heteronym of this author of The Book of Disquiet. A trunk containing hundreds of poems by this author's other heteronyms, including Alberto Caeiro ("CAI-air-oo") and Alvaro de Campos, was found after his death.
  Part 3 (ans: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic or Republica Portuguesa]):
    Fernando Pessoa was an author from this country. Luis Vaz de Camoes ("kah-MOISH") fictionalized the travels of Vasco da Gama in this country's national epic, The Lusiads.

[B7] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After this character observes a fortress firing on several damaged warships, he repeats his saying "wise is the man who contents himself with the spectacle of the world." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ricardo Reis [accept either underlined name; do not accept or prompt on "Fernando Pessoa"]):
    Name this character who arrives on the Highland Brigade after a failed rebellion in Brazil. Initially intending to practice medicine, this character meets Dr. Sampaio and his daughter Marcenda, who has a paralyzed arm.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose (de Sousa) Saramago):
    The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis was written by this Portuguese author. This author wrote about an epidemic of "white sickness" that affects everyone but the doctor's wife in his novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: The Book of Disquiet [or Livro do Desassossego]):
    Fernando Pessoa's flaneur lifestyle influenced both The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis and his other heteronym Bernardo Soares, who is credited with writing this posthumous "factless autobiography" by Pessoa.

[B8] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Joao Gilberto's ("zhuh-WOW zheel-BAIR-too") recording of a song titled for this feeling is credited with establishing bossa nova music as a mainstream jazz genre. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: saudade ("sao-DAH-jee") OR ("sao-DAH-day") [accept "Chega da Saudade"]):
    Give this untranslatable Portuguese word, often translated as "longing" or "melancholy," but typically rendered in a musical context as "blues."
  Part 2 (ans: Fernando Pessoa):
    This Portuguese author's "factless autobiography" The Book of Disquiet is littered with expressions of saudade by its protagonist Bernardo Soares. This author of The Message used dozens of different heteronyms.
  Part 3 (ans: Evora [or Ebora; accept Cesaria Evora]):
    A Cape Verdean singer with this surname made the best-known recording of "Sodade," a Cape Verdean song expressing the same emotion. The Portuguese city of this name is the cultural center of the arid southern Alentejo ("ah-len-TAY-zhoo") region and contains a well-preserved Temple of Diana.

[B9] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about split personalities in European literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: chess [or Schach]):
    In Stefan Zweig's ("ZVEIG's) novel The Royal Game, Dr. B develops the personalities White and Black while playing this game. At the novella's climax, Dr. B has a mental breakdown and plays an illegal bishop check in this game.
  Part 2 (ans:  The Cloven Viscount [or Il visconte dimezzato] (by Italo Calvino)):
    In this novel, Medardo of Terralba literally becomes two people, one good and one evil, after a cannonball splits him in half. This novel is the first in its author's trilogy Our Ancestors.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa]):
    This Portuguese author used over 75 "heteronyms" like Alvaro do Campos and Ricardo Reis. This author used the heteronym Bernardo Soares to write the fragmentary work The Book of Disquiet.

[B10] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: When asked if this character was real, his creator replies, "How real is life? How real is hate that poisons life?" in O Mostrengo, which is a section of verses dedicated to this character. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Adamastor):
    Name this spirit who tells the protagonist, "No matter how many vessels attempt the audacious passage you are plotting, my cape will be implacably hostile."
  Part 2 (ans: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa]):
    Adamastor is the title character of O Mostrengo, which is part of this poet's book Mensagem. This creator of several "heteronyms" wrote The Book of Disquiet.
  Part 3 (ans: Portugal [or the Portuguese Republic or Republica Portuguesa]):
    Vasco da Gama encounters Adamastor in this country's national epic, The Lusiads. Fernando Pessoa is from this Iberian country.

[B11] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A posthumously published book by this author follows a man who collects books he never reads and celebrates "sombre majesty of splendours no one knows." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Pessoa [or Fernando Antonio Nogueira Pessoa]):
    Name this author of a so-called "factless autobiography," which follows the bookkeeper Bernardo Soares. Soares is credited as the author of The Book of Disquiet, but is actually one of the several semi-heteronyms of this author.
  Part 2 (ans: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or Republica Portuguesa]):
    Fernando Pessoa, the actual author of the Book of Disquiet, was born in this European country. This European country is the origin of The Lusiads, which follows Vasco de Gama's journey to India.
  Part 3 (ans: Ricardo Reis [accept either underlined name; or The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis]):
    This Pessoa heteronym was a monarchist who went to exile in Brazil after a failed rebellion. He is the namesake of some odes by Pessoa, and Jose Saramago wrote a book about The Year of the Death of [this character].

[B12] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these things about other Portuguese writers:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Pessoa's Heteronyms [synonyms for "Heteronyms" are fine, such as pseudonyms; pen-names; personalities; etc.]):
    This set of names includes Ricardo Reis, Alvaro de Campos, and Bernardo Soares, the latter of which nominally wrote The Book of Disquiet .
  Part 2 (ans: Gil Vicente):
    This playwright and probable goldsmith is alternately called the "Portuguese Plautus" and chronicles the relationships the "Father of Portuguese Drama." His Trilogy of the Ships between those awaiting passage to Hell, Purgatory, or Heaven.

[B13] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this group penned the lines "I am nothing / I shall never be anything / I cannot wish to be anything" in the poem "Tobacco Shop", written after his time living in Newcastle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: heteronyms of Fernando Pessoa [or alter ego, pseudonym, nom de plume, or other rough equivalents in place of "heteronym"]):
    Name this group that includes the Englishman Alexander Search, whose death at twenty was commemorated in an epigraph; the doctor-detective Abilio Quaresma; and the poet Alvaro de Campos.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Saramago [or Jose de Sousa Saramago]):
    One of Pessoa's heteronyms outlives him in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, a novel by this Portuguese author, who wrote of an epidemic of "white sickness" in his novel Blindness.
  Part 3 (ans: The Stone Raft):
    Five people come together to travel across Iberia in this Saramago novel, in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from Europe and floats across the Atlantic.

[B14] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Ibis, Pip, and Nympha Negra are a few of this author's many, many heteronyms. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Fernando Pessoa):
    This Portuguese author wrote of the "cold in Hadrian's soul" in the poem "Antinous," but is indubitably better known for his monumental Book of Disquiet.
  Part 2 (ans: Gil Vicente):
    Pessoa was perhaps influenced by this "Portuguese Plautus," who penned the line "the pursuit of love / is like falconry" back in the 1500s.
  Part 3 (ans: Jose Saramago):
    This more recent Portuguese author wrote The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, about another of Pessoa's heteronyms. In another novel, he wrote of a woman who remains healthy as everyone else around her succumbs to blindness.
