=== STOCK CLUES: Ruben Dario ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 42 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 19 found, 56 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento; prompt on Garcia]
  - A poem by this author wishes that "the abode dressing in mourning open its door to the purple and ardent vibrating of your word." Another poem by this author calls poets "heavenly lightning rods," like "rustic peaks, breakwaters of eternities!" When this poet visits, the title character of The Autumn of the Patriarch asks how this poet can write so beautifully with the hand that wipes his ass.
  - This poet's line (*) "If Segismundo grieves, Hamlet feels it" is an epigraph for Giannina Braschi's United States of Banana.
  - This poet included "To King Oscar" and "Poets!
  - Towers of God!" in his collection Songs of Life and Hope.
  - This poet tells the addressee "you join the cult of Hercules and the cult of Mammon" in a poem that invokes the "voice of the Bible, or the verse of Walt Whitman." For 10 points, name this poet of "To Roosevelt." [GIVE]

[T2] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario
  - The speaker alternates between "kissing your hands" and "assassinating your portraits" in a poem addressed to this writer, which ends by declaring "the princesses of [this writer] are dead." This writer described "the question posed by a white swan's neck" in his poem "I Pursue a Form." A character remarks "I'm not in a bed of roses" in a poem by this author, while another combines the "cult of Hercules and the cult of Mammon." In that poem, this author tells the title "professor of energy" (*) and "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar" that "having everything, you lack one thing: God!" This author described "the future invader / the naive America who has Indian blood" in his anti-imperialist poem "To Roosevelt." For 10 points, name this author of Azul..., a proponent of modernismo from Nicaragua. [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]
  - In a short story by this author, the title character forces a hungry poet to crank a music box in the garden. [PWR]
  - The speaker smells orange blossoms and compares the title character to "a lark singing in my soul" in a poem by this author addressed to Margarita Debayle. [PWR]
  - This author of "The Bourgeois King" quips that he is "not in a bed of roses" in a poem accusing the addressee of thinking, "life is fire, and progress is eruption." Two letters by (*) Juan Valera popularized a collection by this author, which includes four seasonal poems in "The Lyrical Year." This author of "Symphony in Gray Major" calls the title figure "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar" and claims that he "lacks one thing: God" in the poem "To Roosevelt." For 10 points, Azul... was written by which modernismo poet from Nicaragua? [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario ("da-REE-oh")
  - This author declared "let the hurricane swirl my heart to song" in a poem about an "aged tree," titled "In Autumn." A poem by this man describes a character who thinks "where you put your bullet / you put the future."Giannina Braschi  used this man's line "If Hamlet grieves, Sigismundo feels it" as an epigraph.
  - Another poem by this author of "Rare Flowers" describes an "old sea dog" by "the sea like a coarse mirror of silver." A poem by this author of "Symphony in Gray Major" says "It is with the voice of the Bible... that we should reach you" to a figure described as "a professor of Energy / as today's madmen say" and an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar." That poem ends "You may count it all, / missing one thing: God!" For 10 points, name this modernista poet of Azul... and "To Roosevelt." [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario
  - This poet was described as being more like Victor Hugo than like his idol Paul Verlaine in the essay "The Siren and the Seashell." This poet claimed "I think in French!" after memorizing a Dictionary of Gallicisms.
  - This poet asked "Is it our fate that millions of us will speak in English?" after noting the "question mark" of a bird's neck in his poem "Swans." This poet added five "medallions" praising authors like Leconte de Lisle  and Catulle Mendes  in the second edition of a collection that also contains stories like "The Ruby" and "The Bourgeois King." This poet wrote about drinking "droplets of refined French sap" with a "half-Spanish, half-indigenous mouth" in his poem "To Columbus." Leopoldo Lugones and Jose Marti joined a movement sparked by this poet's 1888 collection, whose title ends with an ellipsis.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Azul..., the Nicaraguan pioneer of "modernismo." [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento, prompt on Garcia]
  - This poet wrote that "there is no pain greater than living, / nor sorrow greater than the conscious life" and yearned "Youth, divine treasure, / you are now leaving, never to return!" as part of a poetry collection which includes a section titled after a bird related to the myth of Leda.
  - In her postcolonial novel United States of Banana, Giannina Braschi features this author as a character and uses his epigraph "If Hamlet grieves, Segismundo feels it" in its introduction.
  - This poet used the swan as a symbol for both beauty and himself, for example in his poems Blason and El cisne, which are included in his Prosas profanas.
  - This writer of Songs of Life and Hope included Queen Mab and Puck as characters in his poetry collection Azul...
  - For 10 points, name this Nicaraguan poet who initiated the literary movement known as modernismo. [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario
  - The speaker of one of this poet's works recalls, "The night was crying.
  - The night was sighing. [PWR]
  - The night was sobbing." That poem, "Sad, Very Sadly," opens with the speaker "watching how a fountain's water fell." This poet described a place where "all was dawn" at the end of a sequence in which the speaker repeatedly shouts "More!" as a fairy maiden guides him through a lush vernal landscape.
  - In another poem, he described a man whose "curly hair" and "athletic biceps" are well known by the "iodine and (*) saltpetre foam." That poem by this writer describes the "old cicada" with his "senile, raucous guitar" and opens, "The sea like a vast silvered mirror reflects the sky like a sheet of zinc." This poet of "Autumnal" wrote, "a thousand cubs are loosed from the Spanish lion," in a poem that accuses the American addressee, a "professor of energy," of "missing one thing: God." For 10 points, name this Nicaraguan poet of "Symphony in Gray Major" and "To Roosevelt," the father of modernismo. [PWR,GIVE]

[T8] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]
  - This author wrote a poem in which "the thirst of infinite desire" drives the speaker to continually request "More!" from a fairy-maiden, who leads him to the radiant face of a woman.
  - Despite their accusations of "mental Gallicism", two letters from Juan Valera are included as a prologue to one of this author's collections.
  - This author of "Autumnal" wrote a poem that begins by describing the sea as "a vast silvered mirror" that "reflects the sky like a sheet of zinc".
  - He exclaims "although you (*) count on everything, you lack one thing: God!" in a poem from his Songs of Life and Hope that calls its title figure a "professor of Energy" and an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar".
  - "Symphony in Gray Major" is a poem from this man's collection "Prosas Profanas".
  - For 10 points, name this author of "To Roosevelt" and the collection Azul..., the Nicaraguan founder of modernismo. [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 DEES (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario
  - This man's first major collection, which was published in 1888, includes various "medallions" dedicated to Walt Whitman and the Leconte de Lisle, as well as fairy tales such as one about a bourgeois king that hires a poet and one about the veil of Queen Mab.
  - He wrote about a princess that is guarded by a hound, a sleepless dragon and a hundred negroes with a hundred lances in "Sonatina." He wrote "You join the cult of Hercules to the cult of Mammon" in a poem that ends "And, although you count on everything, you lack one thing: God!" That poem first appeared in this man's collection Songs of Life and Hope and calls the title ruler an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar." For 10 points, name this author of "To Roosevelt" who kick started modernismo with the publication of Azul... [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario
  - This poet referenced Lohengrin in a poem about a creature under whose wings "the new Poetry" is born. [PWR]
  - This author of "The Swan" also wrote about a "sea-dog" who sleeps in "the siesta of the tropics" after "thinking of the beaches/of a vague, distant, misty land." This poet wrote a work in which the speaker is led by a "friendly fairy" and tells her, "I want to feel within my soul profound, deep, and boundless inspiration: light, warmth, aroma, life." That poem, (*) "Autumnal," forms part of a section called "The Lyrical Year" in a collection by this author.
  - This author of "Symphony in Gray Major" also wrote a work in which the speaker tells the title figure that "it is with the voice of the Bible, or the verse of Walt Whitman" that he should come to the title figure, who he later calls an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar." For 10 points, name this modernista poet of "To Roosevelt" and the collection Azul... [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 VCU Closed (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario
  - This poet wrote that he heard "The Argo felt within her swelling sails/When Jason's dream the stars of heaven loved well" when he puts the title object to his ear in "A Shell." He laments his old age while recalling his previous encounters with various women in his "Song of Autumn in the Springtime." Another poem by this man refers to the title figure as "the deadly (*) Rifleman and the dreadful Hunter", and in the same poem this poet sends a warning that "A thousand cubs of the Spanish lion are roaming free." That poem by this man criticizes the imperialistic behavior of the United States under the title President in "To Roosevelt." For 10 points, identify this poet who is considered the father of Modernism in Latin America and who hailed from Nicaragua. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario
  - As a critic, he stated that the Comte de Lautreamonte was a dream imagined by a sad angel martyred in the Empyrean in his book The Misfits. [PWR]
  - He imagines "the iodine and saltpeter foam know[ing] the ruddy nose" of a sea-dog in one of his poems, which opens by picturing "the sea like a vast silvered mirror, reflect[ing] the sky like a sheet of zinc." He calls the title figure a (*) "professor of energy" and an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar" in a poem found in Songs of Life and Hope.
  - This author's collection Profane Hymns contains "Symphony in Gray Major." This author of "To Roosevelt" kicked off modernismo with the publication of his book Azul...
  - For 10 points, name this Nicaraguan poet. [GIVE]

[T13] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]
  - This poet ended one sonnet with the image of "the swan's great white neck, with its questions, its grace." He addressed a shift in his style, noting, "I am an aged tree that, when I was growing, uttered a vague, sweet sound when the breeze caressed me," in his poem "In Autumn." The speaker claims, "When the giant yawns and stretches, the earth feels a tremor rippling through the enormous vertebrae of the Andes," in his poem addressed to a man who can only be reached by "Biblical tones" or the poetry of Walt Whitman.
  - This poet wrote "To Roosevelt" and the collection Azul.
  - For 10 points, name this Modernismo poet from Nicaragua. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the impact of French Symbolism on Latin American poetry. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    This Nicaraguan poet pulled from French Symbolism for his Modernismo collection Azul... This poet called the title figure a "professor of energy" and an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar" in his poem "To Roosevelt."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Pierre Baudelaire):
    In her essay "The Incarnate World," Alejandra Pizarnik noted how she took inspiration from the "suffering" of this Symbolist poet of Les Fleurs du Mal.
  Part 3 (ans: Cesar Vallejo [or Cesar Abraham Vallejo Mendoza]):
    Some literary critics have drawn similarities between the poetry of Baudelaire and this poet, who stated "There are blows in life, so powerful" in his poem "The Black Heralds."

[B2] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A mentally ill poet from this country wrote of "the distance from here to a star that has never existed - because God has not pinched the skin of the night that far" in his Song of Space. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Republic of Nicaragua):
    Name this country where an earlier poet indulged in his Pythagorean philosophy with lines like "you are a universe of universes, / and your soul a fountain of song" in his poem "Love Your Rhythm."
  Part 2 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    This co-founder of modernismo with Leopoldo Lugones wrote "Love Your Rhythm" and the collection Azul...
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz [or Octavio Irineo Paz Lozano]):
    This Mexican writer wrote about Dario seeking "a beauty that is beyond beauty" in his essay "The Siren and the Seashell." His other writings include The Labyrinth of Solitude.

[B3] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: By the end of his life, this poet was so embarrassed by the excess sentimentality of his first two books of poetry that he destroyed every copy he could find. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juan Ramon Jimenez [or Juan Ramon Jimenez Mantecon]):
    Name this Nobel laureate and champion of "naked" or "pure poetry." This author gained popularity in the US after the publication of a prose poem about a silver donkey titled Platero y Yo.
  Part 2 (ans: sonnets [or Spenserian sonnets; accept Spiritual Sonnets or Sonetos espirituales]):
    Jimenez wrote a collection of "Spiritual" poems in this form. Poems in the Spenserian type of this form consist of three quatrains and a couplet.
  Part 3 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Jimenez first moved to Madrid after being discovered by this author. This Nicaraguan modernismo author wrote the collection Azul....

[B4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A series of poems describes members of this profession as frozen "in the great / refrigerator of Los Angeles" and "lost in the dark city." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: detectives [accept The Savage Detectives or Los detectives salvajes; accept "The Lost Detectives" or "Los detectives perdidos"; accept "The Frozen Detectives" or "Los detectives helados"; prompt on private investigators or private eyes or P.I.s]):
    What profession titles a novel that ends with the narrator being disappointed by a poet's notebooks after taking a road trip to the Sonora Desert with the prostitute Lupe?
  Part 2 (ans: Roberto Bolano [or Roberto Bolano Avalos]):
    "The Frozen Detectives" is by this Chilean author, who fictionalized himself and Mario Santiago Papasquiaro as Visceral Realist poets in his novel The Savage Detectives.
  Part 3 (ans: swans [accept "El Cisne"; accept Swan's Howl or Aullido de cisne; prompt on birds or avians] (The second poem is by Ruben Dario.)):
    Papasquiaro inspired the infrarealists with a collection named for this animal's "howl." "The new Poetry" is conceived under this animal in a poem that begins, "It happened in a divine moment for the human species."

[B5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A Jose Enrique Rodo essay titled for this character contrasts him with a [emphasize] different character who represents the United States' moral emptiness, which Latin American society should not develop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ariel):
    Name this spirit whose willing servitude is contrasted with Caliban's enslavement to Prospero in postcolonial analyses of Shakespeare's The Tempest.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    This poet's essay "The Triumph of Caliban" likens the United States and Latin America to Caliban and Ariel. "The sea" is "like a vast silvered mirror" in "Symphony in Gray Major," a poem by this founder of modernismo.
  Part 3 (ans: cannibals [or word forms; accept Cannibalist Manifesto or Anthropophagic Manifesto or Manifesto Antropofago]):
    Roberto Fernandez Retamar reversed the Ariel-Caliban contrast by describing Caliban as one of these people. A manifesto that asks, "Tupi or not Tupi: that is the question," is titled for these people.

[B6] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem describes a sailor "smoking his pipe" and "thinking about the beaches" of a "vague, distant, misty country." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Symphony in Gray Major" [or "Sinfonia en gris mayor"]):
    Name this poem, which opens by describing how "the sea like a vast silvered mirror reflects the sky like a sheet of zinc."
  Part 2 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    This Nicaraguan poet of "Symphony in Gray Major" criticized American imperialism in "To Roosevelt" and wrote the collection Azul... (ah-SOOL), which helped kickstart modernismo in poetry.
  Part 3 (ans: assonance [or assonant rhyme]):
    One modernist element that Dario incorporated into "Symphony in Gray Major" was to combine words stressed on the antepenultimate syllable with this type of rhyme, which contrasts with consonance because only the vowels match.

[B7] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker describes, "The lord of those dead who are dressed in red. / The man who is masked in a faceless face" in an Alejandra Pizarnik poem titled for this poet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Name this founder of the modernismo movement. This poet wrote the title figure was "missing one thing: God!" in the poem "To Roosevelt."
  Part 2 (ans: Ocampo [accept Silvina Ocampo or Victoria Ocampo]):
    Pizarnik wrote, "You open me like a flower," in a poem titled for an author with this surname, who was inspired by Ruben Dario to create a shop assistant named Dario Cuerda in Leopoldina's Dream. Another author with this surname founded the journal Sur.
  Part 3 (ans: Argentina [or the Argentine Republic or Republica Argentina]):
    The Ocampo sisters and Alejandra Pizarnik originate from this country, where Victoria Ocampo was briefly imprisoned for her opposition to Juan Peron.

[B8] 2021 COOT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet analogised their unusual influences to saying that their wife was Spanish, but '[their] mistress is in Paris' in the introduction to their collection Prosas profanas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    Name this poet, whose influences from French Symbolist poetry run through their collection Azul. This Nicaraguan poet claimed their style of modernismo was 'Spanish verse... passed through the sieve of French verse'.
  Part 2 (ans: Alejandra Pizarnik):
    French symbolism heavily influenced this Argentine poet's 1968 collection Extracting the Stone of Madness, published shortly after their suicide from a drug overdose. They also wrote The Tree of Diana.
  Part 3 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    The introduction to Pizarnik's The Tree of Diana was written by this Mexican poet of "Sunstone" and the essay collection The Labyrinth of Solitude.

[B9] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Mexican poet Enrique Gonzalez Martinez wrote a poem railing against this animal, calling it "deceptive" and suggesting that an owl would be a better symbol. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: swans [or "El Cisne" or "Los Cisnes"]):
    Name this animal, the subject of a sonnet explaining how it used to "sing only to die" but how a "Wagnerian" one sings "in order to live again." That poem is included in the author's Cantos de Vida y Esperanza.
  Part 2 (ans: Azul... [or Blue...]):
    This collection of mixed forms by the author of "El Cisne" was heavily inspired by the Parnassian movement. Its sections are "Cuentos en Prosa," "En Chile," and "El Ano Lirico."
  Part 3 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    Juan Valera praised this author for his "galicismo mental" in utilizing "elements of the French spirit, while maintaining the Spanish form" throughout Azul. This Nicaraguan poet of "To Roosevelt" is considered the founder of modernismo.

[B10] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a short story, the Parisian writer Garcin opens the cage of a bird described by this adjective before shooting himself to avoid working in his family's shop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: blue [or azul; or azur; accept "The Blue Bird" or "El pajaro azul"]):
    Give either the original Spanish or English translation of this adjective. A Spanish-language collection titled for this adjective contains works like "The Bourgeois King" and "The Lyric Year" and opens with an epigraph by Victor Hugo describing art with this adjective.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    This Nicaraguan author's collection Azul... kickstarted the modernismo movement of Hispanic literature in the late 19th century.
  Part 3 (ans: fairies [or fairy; accept The Faerie Queene]):
    In a story from Azul..., four men are gifted a blue veil of dreams by Mab, the queen of these mythical beings. Edmund Spenser's epic poem about Gloriana is titled for the queen of these beings.

[B11] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: Federico Garcia Lorca drew a series of images to accompany this poem, one of which depicts a series of disembodied lips radiating out from a single eye. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Walking Around" [by Pablo Neruda"]):
    Name this poem whose speaker encounters "hideous intestines / hanging over the doors of houses that I hate" and clotheslines containing "underwear, towels and shirts from which slow / dirty tears are falling."
  Part 2 (ans: Nicanor Parra):
    This poet satirized "Walking Around" in his poem "Lyric Poet Pithecantropos Erectus," which appears in his collection Artefactos. In an academic speech delivered in front of Neruda, this Chilean author noted that giving academic speeches was contradictory to his status as an "anti-poet."
  Part 3 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Parra's occasionally lukewarm attitude toward Neruda shows up in a short poem of his that claims "Chile's four great poets / are three: / Alonso de Ercilla" and this notably Nicaraguan member of the modernismo movement who wrote "To Roosevelt."

[B12] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In one poem in his collection Songs of Life and Hope, this poet described Roosevelt as "a Professor of Energy" and "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    Name this Nicaraguan author, a pioneer of modernismo whose other poems include Symphony in Gray Major.
  Part 2 (ans: Azul... [or Blue...]):
    This collection by Dario is credited with establishing the modernismo style. It includes sections like "The Lyrical Year", as well as such characters as Walt Whitman, Queen Mab and Puck.
  Part 3 (ans: swans):
    Dario frequently used this bird as a symbol for both love and for himself, as in a poem where he noted that this bird "only sings just before dying". WB Yeats discussed wild examples of these birds "at Coole".

[B13] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Many editions of this author's collected poems conclude with the words "These blue days and this sun of childhood," which were found scribbled on a piece of paper in his coat pocket after he died. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Antonio Machado [or Antonio Cipriano Jose Maria y Francisco de Santa Ana Machado y Ruiz]):
    Name this Spanish poet who repeated the lines "Traveler, there is no road / The road is your traveling," in a poem from the "Proverbios y cantares" section of his major volume, Cantos de Castilla.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    This author, who crossed paths with Machado in Paris, wrote a poem that described him as "wrapped in silence, secret-shy." This Nicaraguan poet drew from French Symbolism to develop a movement called modernismo.
  Part 3 (ans: evil [or mal]):
    Antonio Machado's brother Manuel wrote a sarcastic poem about city life with this adjective in the title. A landmark Symbolist collection by Charles Baudelaire is titled for "flowers" of this type.

[B14] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Part of this book's first section, "Cuentos en Prosa", consists of prose descriptions of a visit to Chile, while its poetic second section is appropriately titled "El Ano Lirico". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Azul... [or Blue...]):
    Name this 1888 collection of short stories and romantic poetry that did much to kick off the Spanish-American literary movement of modernismo.
  Part 2 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Azul... was written by this influential Nicaraguan poet, whose other works include the collection Prosas Profanas.
  Part 3 (ans: God! [or ¡Dios!]):
    Dario's poem "To Roosevelt" concludes with the accusation "although you count on everything, you lack one thing:" this thing. What is it?

[B15] 2016 Listory (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Latin-American poets:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    This writer compared himself to an aged tree in his poem "In Autumn" and founded the Modernismo movement with the collection Azul.
  Part 2 (ans: Jose Asuncion Silva):
    This poet described the shadow of his beloved uniting with his own shadow in his third Nocturne. After losing the draft of his first novel in a shipwreck, he committed suicide by shooting himself exactly in the heart.

[B16] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote a story about a starving poet who is given a music box that he plays incessantly in the palace of the title "Bourgeois King," which opens his major poetry collection. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario [Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Name this poet who collected some poems in a section titled "The Lyrical Year." He described the sea breeze resting on its "black trumpet" while the sea reflects a sky of "rolled zinc" in another poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Chile):
    Two sections of Dario's Azul were written during his time in this South American country, whose Nobel laureates include Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda.
  Part 3 (ans: Brazil):
    Another "modernism" was pioneered by this country's poets Mario and Oswald de Andrade. This country's other writers include Jorge Amado ["George"-ee uh-MAH-doo] and Joaquim Machado de Assis, who created the characters Quincas Borba and Bras Cubas.

[B17] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In one of this author's stories, Satan tempts a rose into thinking that it is not useful, which leads God to transform it into the first piece of cabbage. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Name this author of numerous fairy tales. His poem "Sonatina" describes a prince on a flying horse rescuing a princess guarded by "a hound, a sleepless dragon" and a "hundred negroes with a hundred lances."
  Part 2 (ans: Jose [Julian] Marti [Perez]):
    In The Misfits, Dario praises the work of this author of "I Cultivate a White Rose," whom he believed "lived in communion with God." He wrote "I want before I die / My soul's verses to bestow" in the first poem of one of his collections.
  Part 3 (ans: Republic of Cuba):
    Jose Marti was born in this country, whose song "Guantanamera" was inspired by lyrics in Marti's Versos Sencillos. In 1910, Ruben Dario tried to commit suicide in this country.

[B18] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man adapted French alexandrines into a 14 syllable meter in his own language, using them to depict a sad, "strawberry"-mouthed princess surrounded by wealth in "Sonatina." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario [or Felix Ruben Garcia Sarmiento]):
    Name this rather swan-obsessed poet. The earlier Parnassians and Symbolists inspired him to start a movement focused on bright colors and ornate objects like gems.
  Part 2 (ans: "To Roosevelt" [or "A Roosevelt"]):
    Dario shelved his usual modernismo style in this polemical, anti-American poem. Its namesake leader is an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar" who threatens Nicaragua as a "future invader."
  Part 3 (ans: Leda [accept "Leda and the Swan"]):
    Ruben Dario's poem titled for this woman includes "sparkle-eyed Pan," who "watches and wonders why." William Butler Yeats also wrote a poem about her encounter with Zeus in the form of a swan.

[B19] 2012 Michigan KABO (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name these Latin American poets:
  Part 1 (ans: Ruben Dario):
    In one poem, this man called the U.S. "the future invader / of the naive America." He compared the climbing sun to an invalid's steps in a poem that twice repeats the image of "The siesta of the tropics," "Symphony in Grey Major."
  Part 2 (ans: Cesar Vallejo):
    This poet contrasted two opposing desires, those of life and death, in his poem "Weary Rings." His collections include Los Heraldos Negros and Trilce, while his Poemas Humanos were published posthumously.
  Part 3 (ans: Pablo Neruda):
    He claimed that it was "the hour of departure" and that "You swallowed everything, like distance" in his poem "A Song of Despair," which is sometimes grouped with twenty of his love poems.
