=== STOCK CLUES: Coleridge ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 42 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 37 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Coleridge [accept Samuel Taylor Coleridge; accept Hartley Coleridge; accept Herbert Coleridge] (The second line refers to Wordsworth's "To H. C.")
  - A member of this family replaced Richard Chenevix Trench as the first editor of the Oxford English Dictionary after the latter was appointed Dean of Westminster.
  - A poem asks a member of this family "What hast Thou to do with sorrow / Or the injuries of tomorrow?" and refers to that person as "a gem that glitters while it lives." A poem addressed to a member of this family hopes for him to "wander like a breeze / By lakes and sandy shores" and declares that "all seasons shall be sweet" to that infant.
  - That poem, which opens with a description of its title phenomenon's "secret ministry," is one of the "conversation poems" by a member of this family.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of the author of the poems "Frost at Midnight" and "Kubla Khan." [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ARCADIA (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge (Coleridge's brother-in-law was Robert Southey.)
  - The first chapter of a book by this author prints three parodic sonnets by his alter ego Nehemiah Higgenbottom to illustrate his appreciation for William Lisle Bowles. [PWR]
  - That book by this author proposes an "esemplastic power" to counter the theories of David Hartley, after whom this author named his son.
  - This author and his less-acclaimed brother-in-law examined the Susquehanna River as a location for a failed commune they called "Pantisocracy." This author distinguished (*) imagination from fancy and encouraged "suspension of disbelief" in his book Biographia Literaria. [PWR]
  - This poet's time living in the Lake District inspired many of his "conversation poems." An opium-addled dream inspired a poem by this author that was interrupted by a "person from Porlock." For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of "Kubla Khan." [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 Logomachy (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge Note to moderator: Be sure to pronounce the first vowel in zurdo clearly, so players do not confuse it with sordo, the Spanish word for "deaf."
  - This author was responsible for the first recorded use of the word "bisexual," though it referred to androgyny rather than a sexual orientation. [PWR]
  - This author coined the word "esemplastic" to describe the unifying power of the imagination.
  - This writer defined poetry as "the best words in the best order." This author and Robert Southey used the word (*) "pantisocracy" for their proposed egalitarian utopia.
  - This author coined the phrase "suspension of disbelief" in an 1817 combination of autobiography, philosophy and literary criticism titled Biographia Literaria.
  - A poem by this author introduced the phrase "pleasure dome." For 10 points, name this poet who inspired the idiom "albatross around one's neck" with his Rime of the Ancient Mariner. [GIVE]

[T4] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Wordsworth AND Samuel Taylor Coleridge (The poem in the second sentence is Coleridge's "To Wordsworth.")
  - Two answers required.
  - These two authors collaborated on an unfinished "Fragment of a Sexton's Tale" titled "The Three Graves." A poem by one of these two authors praises a "prophetic Lay" written by the other, whom it calls a "Friend of the Wise!
  - And Teacher of the Good!" One of these poets may have lifted from the other's "The Mad Monk" in describing "a time when meadow, grove, and stream... to me did seem apparelled in celestial light." These were the two most famous "Lake Poets." One of these poets is the "dear friend" praised in the other's poem The Prelude.
  - One of these poets wrote "Dejection: An Ode" in part as a reply to the other's "Ode: Intimations of Immortality." For 10 points, name these co-authors of Lyrical Ballads who wrote, respectively, "Tintern Abbey" and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 Scattergories (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: the children of Samuel Taylor Coleridge [accept the sons of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, because all the clues except the leadin are about his sons; do not accept "the daughters of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, because he only had one daughter]
  - One of these people wrote a pioneering fairy tale called Phantasmion. [PWR]
  - Another of these people is named after a philosopher who propounded his doctrine of vibrations and doctrine of associations in Observations on Man, His Frame, His Duty, and His Expectations. [PWR]
  - One of these people is told that he will "see and hear the lovely shapes and sounds intelligible of that eternal language, which thy God utters" in a poem in which his "gentle (*) breathings ... fill up the interspersed vacancies and momentary pauses of the thought." In that poem, one of these people is told "all seasons shall be sweet to thee" and is called a "dear babe, that sleepest cradled by my side." Some of these people had weird names like Berkeley, Derwent, and Hartley. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, identify these people, one of whom is a major character in his father's poem "Frost at Midnight." [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
  - This author used the lines "And this reft house is that, the which he built, / Lamented Jack!" to open a poem that he published under the pseudonym Nehemiah Higginbottom.
  - This person blended the greek words for "one," "into," and "mold" to describe a concept as esemplastic. [PWR]
  - He differentiated between genius and talent using the metaphor of an egg and an eggshell in a book that distinguished between (*) fancy and imagination and that originated the term "suspension of disbelief." A poem by this writer describes a group of people "As idle as a painted ship, / Upon a painted ocean." This author of Biographia Literaria was writing a poem when he was interrupted by the Person from Porlock. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" and "Kubla Khan." [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
  - A poem by this author addresses a "gentle-hearted" friend who "hast pined / and hunger'd after Nature, many a year." In another poem, this author exclaims "But thou, my babe! shalt wander like a breeze" in a poem by this author describes a separation from "Friends, whom I never more may meet again" and imagines those friends journeying among the Quantocks, saying "Well, they are gone, and here must I (*) remain." This author, who wrote about being "imprisoned" in a lime-tree bower during a visit with Charles Lamb, described "silent icicles / Quietly shining to the quiet moon," in a poem addressed to his infant son Hartley, one of his "conversation poems." An opium dream inspired this poet to write about "caverns measureless to man" and "stately pleasure-dome" in Xanadu.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Frost at Midnight" and "Kubla Khan." [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 It's Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Hartley Coleridge [or Samuel Taylor Coleridge's infant; prompt on Coleridge; accept Coleridge's baby, son, boy, kid, etc. but obviously don't accept "Coleridge's daughter" or related answers; accept "the poet's" or "his" in place of "Coleridge's" throughout this answerline]
  - Description acceptable. [PWR]
  - This man wrote that he was "long time a child, and still a child, when years / Had painted manhood on my cheek," a possible reference to his expulsion from Oxford after the dean caught his drunk ass lying in a gutter.
  - A different author observed that this man's "gentle breathings... [PWR]
  - Fill up the interspersed vacancies / And momentary pauses of the thought." An anecdote about the time this man woke crying from a nightmare, but calmed down upon looking at the moon, is preserved in the poem "The (*) Nightingale." The speaker of another "conversation poem" predicts that "all seasons shall be sweet to" this man, even if a "secret ministry" transforms "eave-drops" into "silent icicles / Quietly shining to the quiet moon." In that poem, the only noise in a room where this man slumbers comes from a film fluttering on a grate.
  - For 10 points, name this "dear babe" addressed in Coleridge's poem "Frost at Midnight." [GIVE]

[T9] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
  - This poet described a "soft floating witchery of sound" in one poem.
  - The speaker of another poem by this author asks "Is the night chilly and dark?" before answering "The night is chilly, but not dark." The speaker of one of his poems describes "viper thoughts, that coil around my mind" and references the "grand old ballad of Patrick Spence." Another of his poems proclaims "No sound is dissonant which tells of life." This poet of "This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison" and "The Eolian Harp" is best known for a work whose title character orders a structure to be built alongside the river Alph.
  - For 10 points, name this poet of "Dejection: An Ode" and Christabel, who described a character building a "stately pleasure dome" in Xanadu in his unfinished "Kubla Khan." [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
  - In his book The Statesman's Manual, this writer stated that Nimrod and Napoleon represented the "Satanic Hero." A different book by this literary critic introduced the ideas of Schelling's Romanticism to the English public, coining the term "suspension of disbelief." The title object of one of his poems is "placed length-ways in the clasping casement" and is caressed by a "desultory breeze." That poem, which also describes "vain Philosophy's aye-babbling spring" is addressed to (*) "My pensive Sara." This author of Biographia Literaria wrote about how "they are gone, and here must I remain" in a poem that describes how "this lime-tree bower" is the author's prison. [PWR]
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Conversation Poems," such as "The Aeolian Harp," who also wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
  - One poem by this author gives thanks to a "gentle artist" who had rekindled the speaker's "spirits of power" that had stirred his thoughts in "selfless boyhood." This author of "The Garden of Boccaccio" claimed that "Nature ne'er deserts the wise and pure" in a poem in which he claims that, to one of his friends, "No sound is dissonant which tells of Life." He wrote that "they are gone, and here must I (*) remain" in his poem "This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison," while he described "music slumbering on her instrument" in a poem addressed to "my pensive Sara," "The Aeolian Harp." He imagined a "romantic chasm" as part of a "savage place" where a river runs through "caverns measureless to man," and he also pictured a "damsel with a dulcimer." For 10 points, name this author who told of a "stately Pleasure-Dome" in his poem "Kubla Khan." [PWR,GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Oxford Open (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Samuel Taylor Coleridge
  - This author is the subject of a two-volume biography by Richard Holmes, Early Visions and Darker Reflections.
  - This self-described "library cormorant" coined the phrase "willing suspension of disbelief" in his Biographia Litoria.
  - He also wrote about the "secret ministry" of the title meteorological phenomenon in "Frost at Midnight" and about a woman who meets Geraldine in the forest in "Christabel." He also created a character who used a crossbow to shoot an albatross.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This singer paid his way through conservatory by working as a handyman for Frances Macdowell, mother of his classmate and fellow composer Edward. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Harry Burleigh):
    Name this singer known for his art song arrangements of spirituals such as "Deep River." His distinctive baritone rendition of "The Palms" was a Sunday staple on New York radios for years.
  Part 2 (ans: New World Symphony [or Symphony No. 9 in E minor, "From the New World"; or Symphony No. 9]):
    This symphony's composer, Antonin Dvorak, supposedly used an English horn for the solo in its "Largo" movement because it reminded him of Burleigh's voice.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Coleridge-Taylor):
    This composer asked Burleigh, his friend, to sing baritone parts in his Song of Hiawatha. Theodore Roosevelt sparked controversy by bringing this mixed-race British composer to the White House.

[B2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The first major composition of Arthur Sullivan was a set of works in this genre modeled on an earlier collection that is introduced by four sustained woodwind chords before a frenetic theme in the strings. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: incidental music [prompt on overture by asking "what is the genre of the set of works that is from?"; prompt on music written to accompany a play]):
    Name this genre of a set of music by Edvard Grieg that opens with a flute solo depicting a sunrise, from which two suites are often extracted.
  Part 2 (ans: A Midsummer Night's Dream [or Ein Sommernachtstraum]):
    Sullivan's The Tempest was inspired by Mendelssohn's incidental music to this other Shakespeare play, whose main theme imitates scampering "fairy feet."
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Coleridge-Taylor):
    Herbert Beerbohm Tree commissioned incidental music to Othello from this composer, whose Ballade in A minor was premiered at the Three Choirs Festival. A 1900 cantata titled for a character's "departure" completed a trilogy by this composer.

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Stevie Smith wrote a poem on her "thoughts about" this person, speculating that this person had a "cat named Flo." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the person from Porlock):
    Name this descriptively defined visitor who interrupted the writing of a poem that describes how "Alph, the sacred river, ran." This term is now often used for an unwanted visitor who disrupts creative flow.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    This English Romantic poet claimed he was interrupted by a "person from Porlock" while writing "Kubla Khan."
  Part 3 (ans: Geraldine):
    Coleridge also wrote Christabel, a narrative ballad whose title character has a homoerotic encounter with this strange woman. This woman is revealed to be an undefined supernatural creature similar to a vampire.

[B4] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This writer claimed that Edmund Kean's "tawny" performances in Othello were "like reading Shakespeare by flashes of lightning." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    Name this writer who praised Othello for opening with a "dupe" on whom a villain "exercises his art." This writer described one of Iago's soliloquies as "the motive-hunting of motiveless malignity."
  Part 2 (ans: jealousy [or word forms like jealous]):
    Coleridge argued that Iago's "superhuman art," rather than this concept, drives Othello to kill Desdemona. Iago warns that this concept is a "green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on."
  Part 3 (ans: A. C. Bradley [or Andrew Cecil Bradley]):
    Coleridge's view of Iago as "motive-hunting" influenced this critic's argument that Othello is a noble figure. L. [10] Knights's essay "How Many Children Had Lady MacBeth?" mocks this critic's book Shakespearean Tragedy.

[B5] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wonders, "What should it know of death?" about a "simple Child" in the poem "We Are Seven." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Wordsworth):
    Name this poet who reminisces about a walk with his sister Dorothy in the poem "Tintern Abbey."
  Part 2 (ans: Hartley Coleridge [accept Samuel Taylor Coleridge's son; accept "child" or "kid" in place of "son"; accept "To Hartley Coleridge-Six Years Old"; prompt on Coleridge] (The second poem is "Frost at Midnight.")):
    A Wordsworth poem calls this "happy child" "a gem that glitters while it lives." The speaker of another poem tells this person that he "shalt wander like a breeze" and "Therefore all seasons shall be sweet to thee."
  Part 3 (ans: "Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood" [or the Intimations Ode or the Immortality Ode or the Great Ode]):
    This Wordsworth poem recalls a time when "every common sight, / To me did seem / Apparelled in celestial light." Samuel Taylor Coleridge wrote "Dejection: An Ode" as a response to this poem.

[B6] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Schoenberg's Pierrot Lunaire is scored for a reciter accompanied by these five instruments that is now standardly called a "Pierrot ensemble," which may be augmented by percussion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: flute, clarinet, violin, cello, piano [accept in any order; accept flute, clarinet, and piano trio]):
    Name the five instruments in a Pierrot ensemble, not counting doublings or the soprano voice. You have 10 seconds.
  Part 2 (ans: French horn):
    A wind quintet is made up of flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, and this instrument, despite it not being a woodwind. Barry Tuckwell, Dennis Brain, and Richard Strauss's father Franz played this brass instrument.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Coleridge-Taylor [prompt on Samuel Coleridge Taylor; reject "Samuel Taylor Coleridge"]):
    This mixed-race British composer of an early clarinet quintet and Opus 1 piano quintet influenced by Dvorak died young after three US tours. His secular cantata Hiawatha's Wedding Feast became a hit on the scale of Handel's Messiah.

[B7] 2024 Chicago Open (2024) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: An author with this first name critiqued Tractarianism in Dialogues on Regeneration and the Kantian essay "On Rationalism," which was appended to Aids to Reflection. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sarah [accept Sara Coleridge, Sarah Fricker, or Sara Hutchinson; prompt on Asra by asking "what was her real name?"]):
    Give this first name of an author who defended her father from charges of plagiarizing Schelling in his Biographia Literaria. Her mother and her father's long-term love interest also had this first name.
  Part 2 (ans: John Henry Newman [or Cardinal Newman]):
    Sara Coleridge recounted a dream where she debated this theologian, a frequent foil in her writings. "O weary Champion of the Cross, lie still" opens Christina Rossetti's elegy for this author of Apologia Pro Vita Sua.
  Part 3 (ans: "the one Life"):
    Coleridge offered a Christian interpretation of the pantheism of her father's "Eolian Harp," which uses this two-word phrase for the ultimate reality "within us and abroad" that "meets all motion and becomes its soul."

[B8] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about hallucinations in poetry, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    This author began writing a poem based on an opium-induced dream before being interrupted by a person from Porlock. This author described "a stately pleasure-dome" in "Xanadu" in that poem, "Kubla Khan."
  Part 2 (ans: Wilfred Owen (The unnamed poem is "Anthem for Doomed Youth.")):
    This poet described "men whose minds the Dead have ravished" in "Mental Cases." In another poem by this author, the "eyes" of the title people "shall shine the holy glimmers of goodbyes."
  Part 3 (ans: "Mad Girl's Love Song"):
    This villanelle by Sylvia Plath repeats the line "(I think I made you up inside my head,)" as well as the line "I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead."

[B9] 2023 MRNA (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A composer with this surname was the first woman to conduct the HMS Royal Marines and composed a Ceremonial March in honor of Ghana's independence. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Coleridge-Taylor [accept Avril Coleridge-Taylor or Samuel Coleridge-Taylor; reject Taylor Coleridge or Samuel Taylor Coleridge]):
    Give this surname. Another black British composer with this surname composed the unfinished opera Thelma and three cantatas based on The Song of Hiawatha.
  Part 2 (ans: tenor):
    The aria "Onaway! Awake, beloved" from Samuel Coleridge-Taylor's The Song of Hiawatha long remained part of the repertoire for this common male vocal range above baritone.
  Part 3 (ans: nocturne):
    Avril Coleridge-Taylor also composed an F major piano piece in this genre invented by John Field. Another composer's Opus 9 consists of works in this genre dedicated to pianist Marie Pleyel, including one in E flat major.

[B10] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this poem, an unspecified "they" say that the "dead man" "always loved larking." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Not Waving but Drowning"):
    Name this poem whose line "I was much too far out all my life" has sometimes been interpreted as a reference to the author's own depression.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    The author of that poem, Stevie Smith, wrote a poem titled "Thoughts about the Person from Porlock," which claims that this English Romantic poet was already stuck while trying to write "Kubla Khan."
  Part 3 (ans: cats [or felines; accept "The Galloping Cat"; the other author and poem is Thomas Gray's "Ode on the Death of a Favourite Cat Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes"]):
    Smith wrote a poem from the perspective of one of these creatures "that likes to / Gallop about doing good." A different author stated "one false step is ne'er retrieved" in a poem about one of these creatures named Selima.

[B11] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In depicting a historical figure's "Journey to Rome," the author of this sequence provides him with a "maroon GT" whose "car radio, glimmering, received broken utterance from the horizon of storms." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mercian Hymns (By Geoffrey Hill; the three referenced poems are Mercian Hymns VII, XVII, and XX.)):
    Name this sequence, another poem in which places "steel against yew and privet." In a poem in this sequence, one character flays a friend in "the old quarries," then journeys "in his private derelict sandlorry named Albion."
  Part 2 (ans: Ovid [or Publius Ovidius Naso] (The poem is "Ovid in the Third Reich.")):
    Another purposefully anachronistic Geoffrey Hill poem examines Nazi atrocities by juxtaposition with the immorality that this poet advocated in Amores. This Roman poet wrote the similarly licentious Ars Amatoria.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge (The cycle is An Apology for the Revival of Christian Architecture in England; Coleridge differentiated the primary and secondary imagination in his Biographia Literaria.)):
    Hill again interweaves history and personal experience in a cycle that dwells on this poet's notion of a "spiritual, Platonic old England." This poet posited an influential distinction between "primary" and "secondary" imagination.

[B12] 2023 Black History Month Packet (2023) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One composer with this surname composed an impromptu, idyll, and lament, all for flute and piano. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Coleridge-Taylor [accept Samuel Coleridge-Taylor or Gwendolen Avril Coleridge-Taylor]):
    Name this surname shared by that composer, Avril, and her father, who composed a set of Six Sorrow Songs and a set of Twenty-Four Negro Melodies.
  Part 2 (ans: Minnehaha [accept The Death of Minnehaha]):
    Samuel Coleridge-Taylor is most famous for composing a set of three cantatas adapting a long poem into [the title character]'s Wedding Feast, The Death of [this woman], and [the title character]'s Departure.
  Part 3 (ans: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Island [or Britain; accept England]):
    Coleridge-Taylor adapted "Kubla Khan" to music and hailed, fittingly, from this home country of Samuel Taylor Coleridge.

[B13] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Such poems as "The Water King" and "Love and Age" are incorporated into this novel as works of the page Theodore, who helps his master Raymond attempt to elope with Agnes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Monk (: A Romance) (by Matthew Lewis)):
    Name this novel in which the demonic Matilda seduces the protagonist, then helps him rape the virtuous Antonia, before he is fatally dropped off of a cliff by Satan.
  Part 2 (ans: The Bleeding Nun [prompt on partial answers]):
    Agnes dresses up as this ghost who haunts Lindenberg castle to elope with Raymond; unfortunately, Raymond accidentally leaves with the actual ghost, and only exorcises her with help from the Wandering Jew.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    This author praised Matilda and the Bleeding Nun, but condemned The Monk as a whole for exhibiting "low and vulgar 'taste'," in a review published a year before he wrote the poem "Kubla Khan."

[B14] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: William Blake said that this faculty was "not a state" but "human existence itself" and later wrote to Reverend John Trusler that "nature is [this faculty] itself." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: imagination [accept word forms like imagining] (Yeats called Blake a "too literal realist of the imagination.")):
    Name this faculty that Blake and other Romantic poets contrasted with "fancy." Marianne Moore's poem "Poetry" paraphrases a W. B. Yeats quote about Blake in its description of "literalists" of this faculty.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    In his Biographia Literaria, this contemporary of Blake defined imagination as "esemplastic power." The Swedenborgian patron C. A. Tulk introduced Blake to this poet of "Kubla Khan."
  Part 3 (ans: mind-forg'd [or mind-forged]):
    Blake's poem "London" reflects on how society self-imposes restrictions on imagination, most notably when its speaker says that, "In every cry of every Man," he hears "manacles" described by this compound adjective.

[B15] 2022 Penn Bowl (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this poem described it as an "antechapel" to his planned epic The Recluse, which he compared to a Gothic church. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Prelude):
    Name this long, autobiographical poem by William Wordsworth. It describes Wordsworth's hope and disappointment with the French Revolution and contains two sections on "Imagination and Taste."
  Part 2 (ans: The Excursion):
    Although The Recluse was never finished, Wordsworth did write this long poem intended to be its second part. In this poem, a wanderer introduces the author to a man called "the Solitary," who lives alone in a ruined cottage.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    Wordsworth originally planned to write The Recluse alongside this friend of his, who never completed his own poem, "Kubla Khan."

[B16] 2022 CMST (2022) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The most enduring section of this composition is the tenor aria "Onaway! Awake, beloved!" For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Song of Hiawatha):
    Name this wildly successful three-part oratorio based on an 1855 epic poem, first premiered as a unit in 1900 at Royal Albert Hall.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Coleridge-Taylor):
    Hailed as the "African Mahler," this Black composer of The Song of Hiawatha was named after a poet.
  Part 3 (ans: (Sir) Edward (William) Elgar):
    August Jaeger praised Coleridge-Taylor as a genius in a letter to this composer of the Enigma Variations, who recommended Coleridge-Taylor to the Three Choirs Festival where the latter's Ballade in A minor premiered.

[B17] 2021 WORKSHOP (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A mock waterfall and snowstorm are among the visual elements that the Royal Choral Society included in annual dramatic stagings of a cantata trilogy by this composer from 1924 until World War II. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Coleridge-Taylor):
    Name this Black British composer of The Song of Hiawatha. Edward Elgar mentored this composer in his early career, during which critic August Jaeger told Elgar that this composer was a "genius."
  Part 2 (ans: Royal Albert Hall):
    The RCS staged the Song of Hiawatha at this venue, where an overflow of singers had to change costumes outside in tents in Hyde Park. Today, this Victorian concert hall hosts the BBC Proms each summer.
  Part 3 (ans: Antonin (Leopold) Dvorak):
    This composer started, but never finished, his own cantata about the Song of Hiawatha after hearing Native American music while visiting Iowa. His interest in Native American music also inspired his New World Symphony.

[B18] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This text was first added in the 1817 Sibylline Leaves, and it includes plot clarifications such as "The curse is finally expiated." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the gloss to "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" [both underlined parts required; accept answers with annotations or margin notes in place of gloss; prompt on answers that specify gloss or annotations or margin notes but not to which poem; do not prompt on or accept only "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"]):
    Name this group of comments which also includes summaries of a man who "earnestly entreateth the Hermit to shrieve him" and is made "to teach, by his own example, love and reverence to all things."
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    This poet is usually derided by critics for adding the gloss to their poem "Rime of the Ancient Mariner."
  Part 3 (ans: dice game [or shooting or rolling dice]):
    The gloss to line 195 notes that Life-in-Death has won the Ancient Mariner in this sort of contest with Death.

[B19] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Characters in this novel include the slothful Mr. Listless and the pessimist Mr. Toobad, who believes that the world is being run by the devil. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nightmare Abbey):
    Name this comic novel which satirizes the gloominess of contemporary literature. Its main character, Scythrop Glowry, is loosely based on the author's close friend Percy Shelley.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    Thomas Love Peacock's novel Nightmare Abbey also lampoons this author as the Kant-obsessed philosopher Mr. Flosky. His own gloomy poetry includes "Dejection: An Ode" and "Christabel."
  Part 3 (ans: "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage"):
    Peacock especially hated this long poem, and accused it of "poisoning the mind of the reading public." The "Bridge of Sighs" in Venice received its common English name from this poem's fourth canto.

[B20] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Whilst a student at Cambridge, this author enlisted in the military under the fake name "Silas Tomkyn Comberbache," with which he shares its initials. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    Name this British Romanticist who wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
  Part 2 (ans: cantata):
    Black British composer Samuel Coleridge-Taylor, the so-called "African Mahler," wrote a trilogy of pieces in this genre titled The Song of Hiawatha. Mahler himself wrote one titled Das klagende Lied ("das KLAH-gun-duh LEET").
  Part 3 (ans: Calvary [or Calvariæ; do not accept or prompt on "cavalry"]):
    Coleridge-Taylor Perkinson's String Quartet No. 1 is named for this Latin word, which the Vulgate uses as the translation of the Aramaic "golgotha."

[B21] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Douglas Adams novel adapted from a never-produced Doctor Who script, Dirk Gently goes back in time to become a "person from" this location. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Porlock [or "person from Porlock"]):
    That "person from" this place has become a byword for unwanted interruption during writing. That man from here allegedly interrupted the writing of "Kubla Khan," leaving only "eight or ten scattered lines and images."
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    The person from Porlock interrupted this poet of "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" from completing "Kubla Khan." He coined the term "suspension of disbelief" in his Biographia Literaria.
  Part 3 (ans: Stevie Smith):
    This poet of "Not Waving But Drowning" bewailed writer's block, saying "O Person from Porlock come quickly / And bring my thoughts to an end" in "Thoughts about the Person from Porlock."

[B22] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Works of this kind, including 'Riddles Wisely Expounded', have often been recorded by groups like Steeleye Span. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Child (popular) ballads (prompt on folk songs or similar)):
    Name this traditional British literary form. Works in this form were most notably collected by Francis James Child, and they include 'Matty Groves' and 'The Elfin Knight'.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Patrick Spens (accept Child Ballad No. 58, or Roud Index 41)):
    This Scottish ballad tells of an ill-fated boat journey to Norway undertaken by the title character under the bidding of his king. It features the bad omen of 'the new moone / with the auld moone in her arm'.
  Part 3 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    'Sir Patrick Spens' was incorporated into the opening lines of Dejection: An Ode by this Romantic poet of The Rime of the Ancient Mariner and 'Kubla Khan'.

[B23] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A symbol from The Great Gatsby was inspired by this poem's reference to "gaz[ing] forever / On that green light that lingers in the west." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Dejection: An Ode"):
    Name this "conversation poem" whose speaker hopes that the omen of the new moon with "the old Moon in her lap" from the "Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens" might "startle this dull pain, and make it move and live!"
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    This Romantic poet of "Dejection: An Ode" contributed "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" to the collaborative volume Lyrical Ballads.
  Part 3 (ans: fancy):
    Later in the poem, Coleridge recalls a time when "all misfortunes were but as the stuff / Whence" this faculty "made me dreams of happiness." In Biographia Literaria, Coleridge distinguishes this artificial association of memories and emotions from the higher creative ability of Imagination.

[B24] 2017 WAO (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This genre of poem got its name from a poem that begins by asserting that "No cloud, no relique of the sunken day / Distinguishes the West" before countering Milton's claim in Il Penseroso that the nightingale is "most melancholy" by saying that "In Nature there is nothing melancholy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Coleridge's conversation poems):
    Identify this genre of poem that begun with "The Eolian Harp".
  Part 2 (ans: Lyrical Ballads):
    Coleridge, the originator of the genre of conversation poems, collaborated with Wordsworth on this revolutionary collection of poetry that included The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
  Part 3 (ans: "Resolution and Independence"):
    Multiple poems by Wordsworth have been read as replies to Coleridge's conversation poem "Dejection: An Ode." This possible reply describes a man who "fixedly did look / Upon muddy water" in the course of gathering leeches.

[B25] 2017 NASAT (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character is given the message that "he prayeth well, who loveth well both man and bird and beast." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Wedding Guest from The Rime of the Ancient Mariner [do not accept "The Ancient Mariner"; do not accept the "narrator of The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"]):
    Identify this unnamed character who rises a "sadder and a wiser man" after hearing a story from a "grey-beard loon" while on the way to a feast.
  Part 2 (ans: Samuel Taylor Coleridge):
    The Wedding Guest is told the story by the title character in The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, a poem by this Englishman.
  Part 3 (ans: the Lake Poets):
    Coleridge and William Wordsworth were both members of this group of poets. Their name was given as an insult by the Edinburgh Review and referred to where they lived.
