=== STOCK CLUES: William Dean Howells ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 23 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Boston [accept The Bostonians] (The Rise of Silas Lapham is by William Dean Howells)
  - A novel ends by noting how an audience in this city "is not ungenerous" as a character sheds "not the last" tears of her union. [PWR]
  - Another novel set in this city inspired "Nationalist Clubs" that promoted a socialist utopia. [PWR]
  - Julian West wakes up in this city in the year 2000 in the Edward Bellamy novel Looking Backward. [PWR]
  - Tom Corey courts Penelope while a spot in the newspaper series "Solid Men of [this city]" is sought by a (*) paint mogul. [PWR]
  - A novel that ends in this city's Music Hall at a feminist convention led by Olive Chancellor inspired a term for two wealthy women living together in a "marriage" in this city.
  - This city is the setting for a novel in which Verena Tarrant elopes with Basil Ransom, as well as The Rise of Silas Lapham.
  - For 10 points, a political Henry James novel is titled for residents of what New England city? [GIVE]

[T2] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Dean Howells
  - In one of this author's works, Imogene Graham realizes she doesn't love Theodore Colville after a car crash, while another ends with the husband of Ben Halleck's love interest being shot in frontier Arizona.
  - This author wrote about Conrad's death in a streetcar strike in one novel.
  - One of his protagonists employs Zerilla Dewey as a typist and is interviewed by Marcia Gaylord's husband, Bartley (*) Hubbard. [PWR]
  - This non-Caldwell author of Indian Summer wrote about the anarchist Lindau, the racist Colonel Woodburn and the businessman Dryfoos struggling to control the magazine Every Other Week in one work.
  - In another novel by him, Penelope marries Tom Corey and the title character thwarts a sale planned by Milton Rogers.
  - For 10 points, name this author of A Modern Instance and A Hazard of New Fortunes, who wrote about a paint merchant in The Rise of Silas Lapham. [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Dean Howells
  - In one story by this writer, a woman proclaims that she could not love a man who did not have the utmost love for his country, leading George Gearson to die at war. [PWR]
  - He claimed that, because American authors were not subject to social and political wrongs, and because the "wrong from class to class" in America has been so little, American writers focused on the "more smiling aspects of life." This author of "Editha" told the story of the declining marriage of Marcia Gaylord and (*) Bartley Hubbard in one novel. [PWR]
  - Tom Corey's relations with two sisters named Irene and Penelope drives the plot of one of his novels in which the sisters' father makes a fortune in the paint industry, and, in another work, Mr.
  - Dryfoos bankrolls the magazine Every Other Week, which is run by Basil March.
  - For 10 points, name this American realist author of A Modern Instance, the creator of Silas Lapham and A Hazard of New Fortunes. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 BARGE (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: William Dean Howells
  - This author unfavorably contrasted an ideal grasshopper made out of cardboard and wire to a "simple, natural, and honest" grasshopper in his text Criticism and Fiction, which includes an essay about the "smiling aspects of life." He wrote about his friendship with Mark Twain in My Mark Twain, though authors like Sinclair Lewis decried his genteel influence. [PWR]
  - This author championed Chesnutt's conjure stories and Dunbar's dialect poetry as the editor of the (*) Atlantic Monthly.
  - This "Dean of American Letters" championed the Realism exemplified by his own novel about the love triangle between Ben Halleck, Marcia Gaylord, and Bartley Hubbard, A Modern Instance.
  - Basil March relates a street-car strike in another work by this man, whose most famous protagonist marries into the Corey family after making bank selling paint.
  - For 10 points, name this author of A Hazard of New Fortunes and The Rise of Silas Lapham. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a xenophobic satirical response to this novel by Arthur Vinton, the ideas of the protagonist's diary are revealed to have caused the Chinese conquest of America. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Looking Backward: 2000-1887 (by Edward Bellamy)):
    Name this novel whose publication inspired hundreds of Nationalist Clubs across the US. This novel's polemical sequel Equality uses its characters Julian West and Doctor Leete to discuss women's rights.
  Part 2 (ans: Altruria [accept A Traveler from Altruria (by William Dean Howells)]):
    The utopian craze spurred by Looking Backward includes a Titus Smith novel about a society with this name. In another novel, Mr. Twelvemough discovers America's flaws via Mr. Homos's account of a country with this name.
  Part 3 (ans: The Wonderful Wizard of Oz [or The Wizard of Oz] (by L. Frank Baum)):
    A utopian city in this novel may have been inspired by the "White City" of the Chicago World's Fair. Evidence that this novel is an allegory for the Populist Party includes a girl's silver slippers and a "yellow brick road."

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The Haymarket affair inspired this novel's climax, during which Conrad Dryfoos is fatally shot while trying to negotiate the end of a streetcar driver strike. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Hazard of New Fortunes):
    Name this 1889 novel whose title comes from a line in Shakespeare's King John. In this novel, Basil March works at the magazine Every Other Week.
  Part 2 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    A Hazard of New Fortunes was written by this "Dean of American Letters" and author of Gilded Age novels such as The Rise of Silas Lapham.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry James):
    In a review of this author's work, Howells recalls reading this author's story "The Story of a Year." This Gilded Age author wrote Daisy Miller and The Portrait of a Lady.

[B3] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Wisconsin governor George Peck created a popular series of books about his character Hennery Peck, who is described as this type of person. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bad boys [accept "bad boy" literature; accept The Story of a Bad Boy; accept Peck's Bad Boy]):
    Thomas Bailey Aldrich's autobiographical novel titled for "The Story of" what type of character created a 19th-century craze for their namesake genre of children's literature?
  Part 2 (ans: Tom Sawyer [or Tom Sawyer; accept The Adventures of Tom Sawyer]):
    The genre of "bad boy" literature inspired this Mark Twain character, who discovers the hiding place of Injun Joe while trapped in a cave with his crush Becky Thatcher.
  Part 3 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    This author wrote positive reviews of many "bad boy" novels, including The Story of a Bad Boy and The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, for the Atlantic Monthly, which he edited during the 1870s. This author was nicknamed the "Dean of American Letters" for his prominence.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This magazine published William Parker's slave narrative "The Freedman's Story" and Julia Ward Howe's "Battle Hymn of the Republic." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Atlantic [or The Atlantic Monthly]):
    Name this magazine still in print, which was founded by Boston abolitionists and named for a nearby body of water.
  Part 2 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    This author promoted realist literature as editor of The Atlantic. This "Dean of American Letters" wrote a realist novel titled for the Rise of materialistic paint magnate Silas Lapham.
  Part 3 (ans: Charles Chestnutt [Charles Waddell Chestnutt]):
    Howells's successor Thomas Bailey Aldrich published many of this author's stories, including "The Goophered (GOO-ferd) Grapevine," in which Dugal McAdoo hires Aunt Peggy to curse his scuppernong grapes. This author challenged the "plantation tradition" in the story collection The Conjure Woman.

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, a member of the Blue Veins society plans to propose to Molly Dixon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles W (addell) Chesnutt (The unnamed story is "The Wife of His Youth.")):
    Identify this author, who wrote a story which ends with the light-skinned Mr. Ryder acknowledging 'Liza Jane as his wife from when he was enslaved.
  Part 2 (ans: grapes [or "The Goophered Grapevine"; or The Grapes of Wrath]):
    Another Chesnutt story is about a cursed vine that this fruit grows on, which the formerly enslaved Julius McAdoo advises a white couple not to buy. In a John Steinbeck novel titled for this fruit, the Joads travel to California to escape the Dust Bowl.
  Part 3 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    This literary critic was a staunch supporter of Chesnutt's work. This author also wrote a novel which details the paint magnate Silas Lapham's attempts to marry one of his daughters to Tom Corey.

[B6] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A protagonist wants to furnish every room of their house in this city using black walnut. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Boston):
    Name this city. In another novel set in this city, a lawyer watches a feminist speech delivered by a character who temporarily moves in with the lawyer's female cousin.
  Part 2 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    The protagonist of one of this author's novels watches their house on Beacon Street in Boston burn down before its completion. This author's character Basil Marsh is a Bostonian and features in the novel A Hazard of New Fortunes.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry James):
    This author wrote The Bostonians, but is perhaps most famous for writing The Portrait of a Lady and The Golden Bowl.

[B7] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This author, who helped popularize Leo Tolstoy in the US, was inspired by Tolstoy's writing to pen the epistolary utopian novel Through the Eye of the Needle, the final novel in his Altrurian trilogy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    Name this author and promoter of realism. Conrad Dryfoos dies trying to save Lindau from being beaten by the police in one of his novels which follows the creation of the periodical Every Other Week.
  Part 2 (ans: Henry James):
    Howells often praised this author, who is often considered exemplary of literary realism. He wrote the novels The Americans and Portrait of a Lady and the novella The Turn of the Screw.
  Part 3 (ans: Uncle [or Uncle Julius or Uncle Remus]):
    Howells also helped popularize Charles Chesnutt, whose first story collection The Conjure Woman is narrated by a man named Julius that takes this title. This is the familial title of a character who narrates southern folk stories in a series of Joel Chandler Harris works often considered racist.

[B8] 2018 Oxford Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The strange novel The Whole Family is about the Talbert family who own a New England silver-plate business. It was serialised in Harper's Weekly in 1907-8 and was written by 12 authors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    The project of a collaborative novel was envisioned by this author of A Traveller from Altruria and the story "Christmas Every Day" who wrote the first section from the point of view of the father.
  Part 2 (ans: Mark Twain (accept Samuel L. Clemens)):
    Howells tried and failed to get this writer to write a jovial chapter from the perspective of a young boy, which he had proved his ability to write in Huckleberry Finn.
  Part 3 (ans: Henry James):
    Howells was pleasantly surprised that he managed to get this author to write a chapter about the married son of the Talbert family. He had earlier written about how Isabel Archer decided to marry Gilbert Osmond after inheriting a legacy from the Touchett estate.

[B9] 2017 ACF Nationals (2017) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel is narrated by a popular author of superficial romantic fiction named Mr. Twelvemough ("TWELVE"-mow). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: A Traveler from Altruria):
    Name this satirical novel in which Mr. Homos exposes the hypocrisy of a bunch of wealthy Americans staying at the same summer resort.
  Part 2 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    A Traveler from Altruria is a utopian novel written by this American novelist, a champion of realism who also wrote The Rise of Silas Lapham.
  Part 3 (ans: The American):
    In a letter to its author, Howells objected to the depressing ending of this Henry James novel, which ends with the protagonist reflexively making a motion to withdraw an incriminating letter he had thrown into the fire.

[B10] 2016 NASAT (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel realizes that he does not love Imogen Graham after helping the Bowens out first during a carriage accident. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Indian Summer):
    Name this novel that begins with Theodore Colville traveling to Europe to escape his failed American newspaper business.
  Part 2 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    This author of Indian Summer told the story of Tom Corey's relationships with the members of a family in the painting business in The Rise of Silas Lapham.
  Part 3 (ans: Italy):
    Indian Summer is set primarily in this country. The second half of Daisy Miller is also set here.

[B11] 2016 ACF Nationals (2016) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This literary character conducts an interview as part of the "Solid Men of Boston" series in the first chapter of the second novel in which he appears. For the stated number of points:
  Part 1 (ans: Bartley Hubbard [accept either underlined portion]):
    Name this character who moves to Boston from Equity, Maine with his wife Marcia Gaylord shortly after their marriage in an 1882 novel.
  Part 2 (ans: A Modern Instance and The Rise of Silas Lapham):
    For 5 points each, name the two novels in which Bartley Hubbard appears. The first was the first major American novel to center on a divorce, while the second details the changing fortunes of its title Boston paint merchant.
  Part 3 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    A Modern Instance and The Rise of Silas Lapham were written by this "Dean of American Letters," who also spent ten years as chief editor of the Atlantic Monthly.

[B12] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The proposals of the newspaper editor Walter Reeves are repeatedly turned down by Alice, the daughter of the title character of this man's novel Jason Edwards. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Hamlin Garland [or Hannibal Hamlin Garland]):
    Identify this American author who championed a brand of realism called "veritism" in his manifesto Crumbling Idols.
  Part 2 (ans: Main-Travelled Roads):
    This 1891 collection of stories and sketches by Garland isn't part of his Middle Border series, but it does include "Up the Coolly" and the the oft-anthologized "Under the Lion's Paw".
  Part 3 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    During a stay in Boston, Garland was heavily influenced by this fellow American author of such works as A Chance Acquaintance and A Hazard of New Fortunes.

[B13] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: After receiving a slip of paper reading "Wm. M" from his mother, this character tears it up and throws it into a fire. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Silas Lapham [accept either underlined part]):
    Name this character who accidentally burns down his house after having lost the money that he gives to Milton K. Rogers.
  Part 2 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    Silas Lapham appears in a novel by this American realist author of The Lady of the Aroostook, who also wrote A Hazard of New Fortunes.
  Part 3 (ans: Invisible Man):
    Like Silas Lapham, the unnamed protagonist of this Ralph Ellison novel is involved in the paint industry.

[B14] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a children's story written by this author, a girl's wish that it should be "Christmas Every Day" is granted for an entire year. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    Name this author who told the story of a paint magnate in The Rise of Silas Lapham.
  Part 2 (ans: Horatio Alger):
    The Rise of Silas Lapham mocked the rags-to-riches stories of this author, who published Ragged Dick and wrote almost exclusively in the genre.
  Part 3 (ans: A Traveler from Altruria):
    In this anti-capitalist novel, Howells wrote about Mr. Twelvemough, who hosts a visitor from an island much less selfish than the United States.

[B15] 2012 Minnesota Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The unpleasant noise of a saw cutting through wood causes this character to shudder, leading to his recollection of "Po' Sandy." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Uncle Julius Mc Adoo [accept either name, prompt on Uncle]):
    Name this narrator in Charles Chesnutt's collection The Conjure Woman, an avuncular former slave who regales his new white neighbors with stories such as "Hot Foot Hannibal" and "The Goophered Grapevine."
  Part 2 (ans: Joel Chandler Harris):
    Uncle Julius was clearly inspired by Uncle Remus, the creation of this American folklorist who penned the Br'er Rabbit stories.
  Part 3 (ans: William Dean Howells):
    Charles Chesnutt achieved fame after this author praised his stories in a review published in the Atlantic Monthly. This author himself wrote about the decaying marriage between Bartley Hubbard and Marcia Gaylord in A Modern Instance.
