The Betrothed	Italian Literature	Manzoni's historical novel of lovers Renzo and Lucia obstructed by a tyrannical nobleman in Spanish-ruled Lombardy.
The Death of Ivan Ilyich	Russian Literature	Tolstoy's novella confronting a dying bureaucrat's realization that his life was wasted.
the Devil	Russian Literature	Recurring tempter figure, notably Woland in Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita.
The Fall	French Literature	Camus's confessional monologue of a disgraced Parisian lawyer turned "judge-penitent" in Amsterdam.
The Good Soldier Svejk	Central & Eastern European Literature	Hasek's comic novel of a hapless Czech soldier subverting the Austro-Hungarian army through feigned idiocy.
The Netherlands	Other	Home of Dutch-language novelist Harry Mulisch.
the reader	Other	Direct addressee in metafictional works like Calvino's If on a Winter's Night a Traveler.
The Song of Roland	Medieval Literature	French epic (chanson de geste) of Charlemagne's knight Roland's last stand at Roncevaux, betrayed by Ganelon.
Ubu Roi	French Literature	Jarry's proto-Absurdist farce of the grotesque, tyrannical Pere Ubu, forerunner of Pataphysics.
Ulysses	British & Irish Literature	Joyce's modernist novel tracing Leopold Bloom through a single Dublin day, echoing Homer's Odyssey.
Vladimir Mayakovsky	Russian Literature	Russian Futurist poet who championed the Bolshevik Revolution before his suicide.
Vladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov	Russian Literature	Full name of the Russian-American author of Lolita and Pale Fire.
War and Peace	Russian Literature	Tolstoy's epic novel of Russian aristocratic families during the Napoleonic Wars.
What Is to Be Done?	Russian Literature	Chernyshevsky's radical novel envisioning a new socialist society, admired by Lenin.
Wilhelm Meister	German-Language Literature	Protagonist of Goethe's Bildungsroman Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship.
World War I	Other	Global conflict whose trench warfare shaped Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front.
"Boule de Suif"	French Literature	Maupassant's story of a prostitute pressured into sleeping with a Prussian officer to free her coach companions.
"Diary of a Madman"	Russian Literature	Gogol's story of a lowly clerk's descent into delusions of Spanish royalty.
"Gooseberries"	Russian Literature	Chekhov's story on the moral compromise of a man who achieves his modest dream of a country estate.
"The Wall"	French Literature	Sartre's story of a prisoner facing execution during the Spanish Civil War.
A Sportsman's Sketches	Russian Literature	Turgenev's story collection depicting serfs and rural gentry, seen as sympathetic to emancipation.
A Tomb for Boris Davidovich	Central & Eastern European Literature	Danilo Kis's linked stories on victims of Stalinist terror.
Adam Mickiewicz	Central & Eastern European Literature	Polish Romantic national poet; wrote the epic Pan Tadeusz.
Aesop	Classical Antiquity	Legendary Greek fabulist credited with animal fables teaching moral lessons.
Alexandre Dumas	French Literature	French Romantic novelist; wrote The Three Musketeers and The Count of Monte Cristo.
Alexandria	Classical Antiquity	Ancient Egyptian city and setting of Cavafy's modern Greek poetry.
Anatole France	French Literature	French Nobel laureate ironist-novelist of the Belle Epoque.
Auschwitz-Birkenau	Other	Largest Nazi death camp, central to Holocaust memoirs by Levi and Wiesel.
barbarians	Central & Eastern European Literature	Awaited, ambiguous threat in Cavafy's poem "Waiting for the Barbarians."
Beatrice Portinari	Italian Literature	Dante's real-life inspiration for Beatrice, his idealized guide through Paradiso.
Behemoth	Russian Literature	Demonic giant black cat in Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita.
bildungsroman	German-Language Literature	Coming-of-age novel genre exemplified by Goethe's Wilhelm Meister and Hesse's Demian.
Bohumil Hrabal	Central & Eastern European Literature	Czech novelist of comic, digressive prose; wrote Closely Watched Trains.
books	Other	Recurring symbol of forbidden or transformative knowledge across this unit's fiction.
Cancer Ward	Russian Literature	Solzhenitsyn's semi-autobiographical novel set among patients in a Soviet oncology hospital.
castles	Other	Recurring gothic and bureaucratic setting, notably in Kafka's The Castle.
cat	Russian Literature	Recurring demonic animal, notably Behemoth in The Master and Margarita.
Charles Bovary	French Literature	Emma Bovary's dull, devoted husband in Flaubert's novel.
China	Other	Setting occasionally invoked in European travel and exoticist literature.
Colette	French Literature	French novelist known for the Claudine novels and Gigi, exploring female sensuality.
comedy	Classical Antiquity	Dramatic genre pioneered by Aristophanes and Menander in ancient Greece.
Danton's Death	German-Language Literature	Buchner's play dramatizing the French Revolution's Reign of Terror and Danton's fall.
Decameron	Italian Literature	Boccaccio's frame narrative of storytellers fleeing the Black Death in Florence.
doctors	Other	Recurring authority figures across Ibsen's, Chekhov's, and Camus's fiction.
Doktor Faustus	German-Language Literature	Mann's novel of composer Adrian Leverkuhn's demonic pact, allegorizing Germany's fall into Nazism.
Don Quixote de La Mancha	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Full title of Cervantes's mock-chivalric novel of a deluded knight.
Donatien Alphonse Francois, Marquis de Sade	French Literature	Full name of the French libertine writer of Justine, giving rise to the term "sadism."
Emilia Galotti	German-Language Literature	Lessing's bourgeois tragedy of a virtuous woman destroyed by a prince's desire.
Eugenie Grandet	French Literature	Balzac's novel of a miser's daughter's thwarted love and inheritance.
Ganelon	Medieval Literature	Treacherous knight who betrays Roland to the Saracens in the Song of Roland.
Gargantua	French Literature	Rabelais's giant protagonist whose grotesque appetites satirize Renaissance education and religion.
German Language	German-Language Literature	Language of Goethe, Kafka, Mann, and Rilke.
Gregor Samsa	German-Language Literature	Kafka's traveling-salesman protagonist who wakes transformed into a giant insect in The Metamorphosis.
Gustav von Aschenbach	German-Language Literature	Mann's aging writer whose obsession with a beautiful boy leads to his death in Death in Venice.
Halldor Laxness	Scandinavian Literature	Icelandic Nobel laureate; wrote Independent People.
Henry IV	Italian Literature	Pirandello's play of a man who believes himself to be the medieval emperor after a head injury.
Herta Muller	German-Language Literature	Romanian-German Nobel laureate; writes on totalitarian repression under Ceausescu.
Hugo Ball	German-Language Literature	German co-founder of Dada in Zurich, known for sound poetry.
If On a Winter's Night A Traveller	Italian Literature	Alternate spelling of Calvino's Oulipian metafiction addressed to "you," the reader.
Invitation to a Beheading	Russian Literature	Nabokov's surreal novel of a prisoner condemned for the vague crime of "gnostical turpitude."
Jhumpa Lahiri	Other	Indian-American author later associated with Italian literature through her Italian-language memoir In Other Words.
Juan Ramon Jimenez	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Nobel laureate poet; wrote the prose-poem Platero and I.
Juvenal	Classical Antiquity	Roman satirist known for his biting Satires attacking Roman vice.
Lazarillo de Tormes	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Anonymous Spanish novella founding the picaresque genre, following a poor boy serving several masters.
Lisbon	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Portuguese capital central to Pessoa's and Saramago's fiction.
Ludovico Ariosto	Italian Literature	Italian Renaissance poet; wrote the chivalric epic Orlando Furioso.
Lysistrata	Classical Antiquity	Aristophanes's comedy in which women withhold sex to force an end to the Peloponnesian War.
Marina Tsvetaeva	Russian Literature	Russian Silver Age poet who emigrated and later died by suicide after returning to the USSR.
Meursault	French Literature	Camus's emotionally detached protagonist who kills an Arab man in The Stranger.
Narcissus and Goldmund	German-Language Literature	Hesse's novel contrasting a contemplative monk and a worldly wanderer's friendship.
New York City	Other	American city occasionally referenced as an emigre destination in European exile literature.
Novy Mir	Russian Literature	Soviet literary journal that published Solzhenitsyn's One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich.
odes	Classical Antiquity	Poetic form of celebratory verse perfected by Pindar and Horace.
Odysseus	Classical Antiquity	Homer's cunning hero of the Odyssey, wandering home to Ithaca after the Trojan War.
Oedipus	Classical Antiquity	Sophocles's tragic king who unknowingly kills his father and marries his mother.
Pantagruel	French Literature	Rabelais's giant protagonist, son of Gargantua, in the satirical Renaissance epic.
Peer Gynt	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's fantastical verse drama following a boastful wanderer's journey of self-discovery.
Peter Handke	German-Language Literature	Austrian Nobel laureate playwright-novelist; wrote Offending the Audience.
puppets	Central & Eastern European Literature	Recurring figure of artificial life, notably in Capek's robot dramas.
Rodion Romanovich Raskolnikov	Russian Literature	Full name of Dostoevsky's impoverished student who murders a pawnbroker in Crime and Punishment.
