Gil Vicente	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Portuguese Renaissance dramatist considered the father of Portuguese theater.
Good Friday	Other	Christian holy day marking Christ's crucifixion, referenced across religious literary tradition.
Gotthold Lessing	German-Language Literature	German Enlightenment dramatist-critic; wrote Nathan the Wise and Emilia Galotti.
Gretchen	German-Language Literature	Goethe's tragic love interest in Faust, seduced and driven to infanticide and madness.
Griselda	Italian Literature	Patient, endlessly tested wife in the final tale of Boccaccio's Decameron.
Group 47	German-Language Literature	Postwar German writers' collective including Boll and Grass, shaping Trummerliteratur.
Gunnar Gunnarsson	Scandinavian Literature	Icelandic novelist who wrote in Danish, nominated repeatedly for the Nobel Prize.
Gunter	German-Language Literature	Common German first name, notably novelist Gunter Grass.
Gypsy Ballads	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Lorca's poetry collection (Romancero Gitano) blending Andalusian folklore and myth.
Heaven	Italian Literature	Realm of Dante's Paradiso, the final canticle of the Divine Comedy.
Hebrew	Other	Language of biblical and modern Israeli literature occasionally referenced in this unit.
Heinrich	German-Language Literature	Common German first name shared by Heine, Boll, and Mann's brother Heinrich.
Heloise	Medieval Literature	Medieval French scholar whose tragic love letters with Peter Abelard survive as a landmark text.
Henry James	Other	American-British novelist of psychological realism; wrote The Portrait of a Lady and The Turn of the Screw.
Heracles	Classical Antiquity	Greek hero famed for his Twelve Labors, including slaying Geryon and the Hydra.
Hermann and Dorothea	German-Language Literature	Goethe's epic poem of a refugee romance set against the French Revolutionary Wars.
Hernani	French Literature	Hugo's Romantic drama whose riotous premiere marked a turning point against Classical rules.
Hesiod	Classical Antiquity	Greek didactic poet; wrote Theogony and Works and Days.
Horses	Other	Recurring animal motif across European epic and pastoral literature.
hotels	Other	Recurring liminal setting in Modernist and exile fiction.
Hrotsvitha of Gandersheim	Medieval Literature	Medieval German canoness considered the first named female playwright in Europe.
Hugo von Hofmannsthal	German-Language Literature	Austrian poet-librettist who collaborated with composer Richard Strauss.
Humbert Humbert	Russian Literature	Nabokov's unreliable, predatory narrator obsessed with Dolores Haze in Lolita.
hymns	Classical Antiquity	Poetic form of praise addressed to gods, notably the Homeric Hymns.
Hyperion	German-Language Literature	Holderlin's epistolary novel of an idealistic Greek revolutionary's disillusionment.
Ilya Ilyich Oblomov	Russian Literature	Full name of Goncharov's aristocrat so lethargic he cannot leave his bed.
insects	German-Language Literature	Form Gregor Samsa awakens transformed into in Kafka's The Metamorphosis.
Intrigue and Love	German-Language Literature	Schiller's Sturm und Drang tragedy of star-crossed lovers across a class divide.
Ireland	British & Irish Literature	Home of Joyce, Beckett, Wilde, and Yeats.
Isaac	Other	Biblical figure of near-sacrifice, referenced across religious literary tradition.
Ivan Denisovich	Russian Literature	Solzhenitsyn's labor-camp prisoner whose single day is chronicled in the novella.
Jaroslav Hasek	Central & Eastern European Literature	Czech satirist; wrote The Good Soldier Svejk.
Jaroslav Seifert	Central & Eastern European Literature	Czech Nobel laureate poet.
Jean Cocteau	French Literature	French avant-garde writer-filmmaker; wrote Les Enfants Terribles and reworked the Orpheus myth on film.
Jean Paul	German-Language Literature	Pen name of German Romantic novelist Johann Paul Friedrich Richter.
Johan August Strindberg	Scandinavian Literature	Full name of the Swedish Naturalist and Expressionist dramatist.
Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller	German-Language Literature	Full name of the German Sturm und Drang and Weimar Classicism dramatist.
Jon Fosse	Scandinavian Literature	Norwegian Nobel laureate playwright-novelist known for minimalist, hypnotic prose.
Jorge Luis Borges	Other	Argentine writer of labyrinthine, philosophical short fiction; wrote Ficciones and The Aleph.
Joseph Conrad	British & Irish Literature	Polish-born English novelist; wrote Heart of Darkness and Lord Jim.
Joseph Knecht	German-Language Literature	Master of the intellectual glass-bead game in Hesse's final novel.
Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin	Other	Full name of the Soviet dictator whose purges shadow much Russian and Eastern European fiction.
Judaism	Other	Faith tradition central to Holocaust literature and Yiddish fiction across this unit.
Jules Gabriel Verne	French Literature	Full name of the French pioneer of science fiction.
Karl Kraus	German-Language Literature	Austrian satirist-journalist; wrote the vast anti-war drama The Last Days of Mankind.
Karl Ove Knausgard	Scandinavian Literature	Norwegian novelist known for the six-volume autobiographical My Struggle.
Konstantin Dmitrievich Levin	Russian Literature	Tolstoy's idealistic landowner protagonist in Anna Karenina, often read as authorial stand-in.
La Galatea	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Cervantes's pastoral romance, his first published novel.
ladies	Other	Recurring collective term across chivalric and courtly love literature.
Laura de Noves	Italian Literature	Historical woman often identified as the beloved Laura of Petrarch's Canzoniere.
Lenz	German-Language Literature	Buchner's novella depicting poet Jakob Lenz's descent into mental illness.
Lesbia	Classical Antiquity	Catullus's pseudonymous beloved addressed throughout his passionate Roman lyrics.
life	Other	Universal theme underlying nearly every work discussed in this unit.
linden trees	German-Language Literature	Recurring pastoral image in German Romantic poetry.
lions	Other	Recurring heraldic and symbolic animal across European literature.
Little Eyolf	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama of a couple's guilt after their disabled son's drowning death.
Luis de Gongora y Argote	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Full name of the Spanish Baroque poet of ornate culteranismo verse.
Madeleine de Scudery	French Literature	French precieuse novelist known for lengthy romances like Artamene.
maids	French Literature	Servant protagonists who enact murderous fantasies in Genet's The Maids.
Marcus Tullius Cicero	Classical Antiquity	Roman orator-statesman known for his rhetorical treatises and philosophical dialogues.
Margaret Atwood	Other	Canadian novelist; wrote The Handmaid's Tale, a dystopian feminist classic.
MASSOLIT	Russian Literature	Corrupt Moscow writers' union satirized in Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita.
Mathilde de la Mole	French Literature	Aristocratic love interest whose passion helps ruin Julien Sorel in Stendhal's The Red and the Black.
Max Frisch	German-Language Literature	Swiss novelist-dramatist; wrote Homo Faber and the play Andorra.
medical doctors	Other	Recurring authority figures across Ibsen's, Chekhov's, and Camus's fiction.
memoirs	Other	Autobiographical genre used by Zweig, Casanova, and Holocaust survivors like Levi and Wiesel.
Memoirs of Hadrian	French Literature	Yourcenar's novel imagining the Roman emperor's reflective final testament.
Mephistopheles	German-Language Literature	The devil who bargains for Faust's soul in Goethe's tragedy.
Michael Kohlhaas	German-Language Literature	Kleist's novella of a horse dealer whose quest for justice spirals into rebellion.
Michel de Montaigne	French Literature	French Renaissance essayist who originated the personal essay form.
Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov	Russian Literature	Full name of the Soviet satirist author of The Master and Margarita.
mimesis	Classical Antiquity	Aristotle's concept of artistic imitation, central to his Poetics.
Moshe the Beadle	Other	Character in Elie Wiesel's Night who first warns of Nazi atrocities, unheeded.
Mrs. Warren's Profession	British & Irish Literature	Shaw's play confronting prostitution and hypocritical Victorian morality.
My Brilliant Friend	Italian Literature	Ferrante's novel opening the Neapolitan Quartet, following two friends' rivalry and devotion.
Nathalie Sarraute	French Literature	French nouveau roman novelist known for fragmented psychological "tropisms."
Nazi Germany	Other	Totalitarian regime whose atrocities shadow Holocaust literature across this unit.
Nelly Sachs	German-Language Literature	German-Jewish Nobel laureate poet of Holocaust mourning and exile.
nine	Other	Recurring symbolic number across European myth and poetry.
Olga	Russian Literature	Common name shared by Pushkin's and Chekhov's characters and modern laureate Tokarczuk.
