Romain Rolland	French Literature	French Nobel laureate novelist and pacifist; wrote the multivolume Jean-Christophe.
samizdat	Russian Literature	Underground self-published dissident literature circulated in the Soviet Union.
sanatoriums	German-Language Literature	Setting of Mann's The Magic Mountain, where tuberculosis patients convalesce in the Alps.
Sarrasine	French Literature	Balzac's novella of a sculptor's obsession with a castrato singer he mistakes for a woman.
Satan	Russian Literature	Appears as the urbane Woland who upends Stalinist Moscow in Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita.
Sentimental Education	French Literature	Flaubert's novel of Frederic Moreau's failed romantic and political ambitions amid the 1848 Revolution.
Sganarelle	French Literature	Recurring comic servant character in several of Moliere's plays, including Don Juan.
Sophocles	Classical Antiquity	Greek tragedian; wrote Oedipus Rex and Antigone.
superfluous man	Russian Literature	Recurring 19th-century archetype of an alienated, purposeless aristocrat, as in Lermontov's Pechorin.
The Bridge on the Drina	Central & Eastern European Literature	Andric's novel chronicling centuries of Bosnian history centered on a Balkan bridge.
The Fire Chief	French Literature	Absurdist character who appears uninvited amid the collapsing conversation of Ionesco's The Bald Soprano.
The Flies	French Literature	Sartre's existentialist reworking of the Orestes myth, exploring freedom and guilt.
The Ghost Sonata	Scandinavian Literature	Strindberg's chamber play exposing hidden sins behind a respectable household's facade.
The Government Inspector	Russian Literature	Gogol's satire of provincial officials mistaking a minor clerk for a feared government inspector.
The Inspector General	Russian Literature	Alternate English title of Gogol's satire of corrupt provincial bureaucrats.
The Joke	Central & Eastern European Literature	Kundera's novel of a man's life ruined after a postcard joke is taken as political dissent.
The Little Prince	French Literature	Saint-Exupery's fable of a young prince visiting Earth from a tiny asteroid.
The Maids	French Literature	Genet's Absurdist play of two servants ritually enacting murderous fantasies against their mistress.
The Mandarins	French Literature	Beauvoir's novel following French intellectuals navigating politics after World War II.
the Nutcracker	German-Language Literature	Ballet based on Hoffmann's tale "The Nutcracker and the Mouse King."
The Romance of the Rose	Medieval Literature	Allegorical medieval French poem of a lover's quest to win a rose symbolizing his beloved.
The Three Musketeers	French Literature	Dumas's swashbuckling novel of d'Artagnan joining Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.
The Visit	German-Language Literature	Durrenmatt's play of a wealthy woman who returns to her hometown offering money for a former lover's death.
The Wild Ass's Skin	French Literature	Balzac's fantastical novel of a magic skin that grants wishes while shortening its owner's life.
theatre of the absurd	French Literature	Mid-20th-century dramatic movement of illogical, existentially bleak comedy led by Ionesco and Beckett.
Thirty Years' War	German-Language Literature	Devastating 17th-century religious conflict forming the backdrop of Grimmelshausen's Simplicius Simplicissimus.
Thomas Bernhard	German-Language Literature	Austrian novelist-playwright known for scathing, repetitive prose; wrote The Loser.
Three Sisters	Russian Literature	Chekhov's drama of provincial sisters longing to return to Moscow.
Torquato Tasso	Italian Literature	Italian Renaissance poet; wrote the crusading epic Jerusalem Delivered.
trains	Other	Recurring symbol of fate and modernity, notably Anna Karenina's death and wartime deportations.
tuberculosis	German-Language Literature	Disease afflicting patients at the Swiss sanatorium in Mann's The Magic Mountain.
Victor Marie Hugo	French Literature	Full name of the French Romantic author of Les Miserables.
Vladimir	British & Irish Literature	One of the two tramps waiting alongside Estragon in Beckett's Waiting for Godot.
W. G. Sebald	German-Language Literature	German writer of hybrid memoir-fiction; wrote Austerlitz, blending photography and prose.
William Shakespeare	Other	English playwright occasionally invoked as a point of comparison alongside Continental drama.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart	Russian Literature	Composer whose rivalry with Salieri is dramatized in Pushkin's short play Mozart and Salieri.
Young Werther	German-Language Literature	Goethe's lovesick protagonist whose suicide over Lotte sparked a Romantic fashion trend.
"A Throw of the Dice Will Never Abolish Chance"	French Literature	Mallarme's Symbolist poem experimenting with typography and blank space across the page.
"Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter"	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Lorca's elegy mourning the bullfighter Ignacio Sanchez Mejias.
"Requiem"	Russian Literature	Akhmatova's poem cycle mourning victims of Stalin's purges.
"The Drunken Boat"	French Literature	Rimbaud's Symbolist poem narrated by a runaway, sinking boat's hallucinatory voyage.
"The Lorelei"	German-Language Literature	Heine's poem of a siren luring Rhine sailors to their deaths with her song.
"The Nose"	Russian Literature	Gogol's absurdist story of a bureaucrat whose nose detaches and assumes a life of its own.
"The Queen of Spades"	Russian Literature	Pushkin's story of an officer's obsessive gamble for a card-game secret from an aged countess.
"Waiting for the Barbarians"	Central & Eastern European Literature	Cavafy's poem depicting a city's empty anticipation of an invasion that never comes.
"Ward No. 6"	Russian Literature	Chekhov's story of a doctor who grows indistinguishable from the asylum patients he treats.
A Dream Play	Scandinavian Literature	Strindberg's fragmented, dreamlike drama following the daughter of a Hindu god through human suffering.
A Midsummer Night's Dream	Other	Shakespeare's comedy of enchanted lovers in a forest, occasionally invoked comparatively.
Aeschylus	Classical Antiquity	Earliest of the great Greek tragedians; wrote the Oresteia trilogy.
Aleksandr	Other	Common Russian first name shared by Pushkin and Solzhenitsyn.
Alessandro Manzoni	Italian Literature	Italian novelist; wrote the historical novel The Betrothed.
Alexander Blok	Russian Literature	Russian Symbolist poet; wrote "The Twelve" on the Russian Revolution.
Alexander Solzhenitsyn	Russian Literature	Alternate spelling of the Soviet dissident Nobel laureate author of The Gulag Archipelago.
Alyosha	Russian Literature	The youngest, spiritually devout Karamazov brother in Dostoevsky's novel.
And Quiet Flows the Don	Russian Literature	Sholokhov's epic novel of Cossack life through revolution and civil war.
Annie Ernaux	French Literature	French Nobel laureate memoirist known for spare autobiographical prose.
Antonio Salieri	Russian Literature	Composer dramatized as Mozart's jealous poisoner in Pushkin's short play Mozart and Salieri.
Athalie	French Literature	Racine's biblical tragedy of a usurping queen's downfall in ancient Judah.
Billiards at Half-Past Nine	German-Language Literature	Boll's novel tracing three generations of a German family across two world wars.
Cain	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Saramago's novel reimagining the biblical Cain's wanderings across Old Testament episodes.
Catullus	Classical Antiquity	Roman neoteric poet of passionate lyrics to his beloved Lesbia.
clouds	Classical Antiquity	Personified chorus and title of Aristophanes's comedy satirizing Socrates.
concentration camps	Other	Nazi imprisonment system central to Holocaust literature by Levi, Wiesel, and Kertesz.
conceptismo	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Baroque literary style of dense wit and wordplay, epitomized by Quevedo.
Constantine P. Cavafy	Central & Eastern European Literature	Full name of the modern Greek poet of Alexandria.
Cossacks	Russian Literature	Frontier warrior communities depicted in Tolstoy's and Sholokhov's fiction.
Crabwalk	German-Language Literature	Grass's novella on the sinking of the Wilhelm Gustloff and postwar German memory.
Czechoslovakia	Central & Eastern European Literature	Former state home to Kafka's milieu, Capek, Kundera, and Havel.
Dada	German-Language Literature	Anti-art movement founded in wartime Zurich, rejecting logic and tradition.
Demian	German-Language Literature	Hesse's Bildungsroman of young Emil Sinclair's spiritual awakening guided by the enigmatic Max Demian.
demons	Russian Literature	Alternate title (Demons/The Possessed) of Dostoevsky's novel on a nihilist revolutionary conspiracy.
donkey	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Companion animal in Juan Ramon Jimenez's prose-poem Platero and I.
Dr. Pangloss	French Literature	Voltaire's tutor in Candide who insists all is for the best despite endless catastrophe.
Drowning	Other
Dubliners	British & Irish Literature	Joyce's short-story collection of Dublin life, culminating in the novella "The Dead."
Dulcinea del Toboso	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Don Quixote's idealized, largely imaginary beloved, based on a peasant girl.
E	Other	Common single-letter clue element, notably the omitted letter in Perec's lipogrammatic novel A Void.
Edmond Eugene Alexis Rostand	French Literature	Full name of the playwright who wrote Cyrano de Bergerac.
Elsinore	Other	Danish castle setting of Shakespeare's Hamlet.
Endgame	British & Irish Literature	Beckett's Absurdist play of Hamm and Clov trapped in a bare room after an apocalypse.
