Dead Souls	Russian Literature	Gogol's satirical novel of con man Chichikov buying dead serfs' names to inflate his estate.
E. T. A. Hoffmann	German-Language Literature	German Romantic writer of fantastical tales; wrote "The Sandman" and Tomcat Murr, inspiring The Nutcracker ballet.
Faust	German-Language Literature	Goethe's tragedy of a scholar who bargains his soul to Mephistopheles for knowledge and pleasure.
France	French Literature	Home of Moliere, Voltaire, Balzac, Proust, and the Theatre of the Absurd.
Francois Rabelais	French Literature	French Renaissance satirist; wrote Gargantua and Pantagruel, celebrating grotesque bodily excess.
In Search of Lost Time	French Literature	Proust's multi-volume novel of involuntary memory triggered by a madeleine dipped in tea.
Jean Genet	French Literature	French Absurdist and former criminal; wrote the plays The Maids and The Balcony.
Modern Greek	Central & Eastern European Literature	Language of poet Cavafy and novelist Kazantzakis.
Primo Levi	Italian Literature	Italian-Jewish chemist and Holocaust memoirist; wrote If This Is a Man and The Periodic Table.
Republic of Poland	Central & Eastern European Literature	Home of Mickiewicz, Sienkiewicz, Milosz, and Szymborska.
Six Characters in Search of an Author	Italian Literature	Pirandello's metatheatrical play in which fictional characters confront a troupe of actors.
Stephane Mallarme	French Literature	French Symbolist poet; wrote "A Throw of the Dice Will Never Abolish Chance."
The Count of Monte Cristo	French Literature	Dumas's revenge novel of Edmond Dantes escaping the Chateau d'If to punish his betrayers.
Uncle Vanya	Russian Literature	Chekhov's drama of wasted rural lives and quiet despair on a country estate.
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn	Russian Literature	Soviet dissident Nobel laureate; wrote One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich and The Gulag Archipelago.
Andre Gide	French Literature	French modernist Nobel laureate; wrote The Immoralist, examining self-liberation and desire.
Doctor Zhivago	Russian Literature	Pasternak's novel of physician-poet Yuri Zhivago's love amid the Russian Revolution and Civil War.
Fathers and Sons	Russian Literature	Turgenev's novel dramatizing the nihilist Bazarov's clash with the older generation.
Fernando Pessoa	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Portuguese modernist who wrote under many heteronyms, including Ricardo Reis; wrote The Book of Disquiet.
George Sand	French Literature	French Romantic novelist and pen name of Amantine Dupin, known for pastoral fiction and her affair with Chopin.
Heinrich Boll	German-Language Literature	German Group 47 novelist of postwar Trummerliteratur; wrote Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
Madame Bovary	French Literature	Flaubert's novel of Emma Bovary's adulterous escapism and eventual arsenic suicide.
Miguel de Cervantes	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Golden Age author of Don Quixote, the foundational modern novel.
Spanish Golden Age	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Era of Cervantes, Lope de Vega, and Calderon spanning the 16th and 17th centuries.
The Bald Soprano	French Literature	Ionesco's absurdist debut play satirizing empty bourgeois conversation.
the glass-bead game	German-Language Literature	Hesse's utopian intellectual game at the center of his final novel, Das Glasperlenspiel.
the Holocaust	Other	Nazi genocide referenced in works by Primo Levi, Elie Wiesel, and Imre Kertesz.
The Wild Duck	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama on the destructive costs of forcing truth upon comforting illusions.
Anna Karenina	Russian Literature	Tolstoy's novel of an adulterous affair ending in the heroine's suicide beneath a train.
Antigone	Classical Antiquity	Sophocles's tragedy of a heroine who defies Creon's edict to bury her brother Polynices.
Blood Wedding	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Lorca's tragedy of a bride who flees with her lover on her wedding day, ending in duel deaths.
Czeslaw Milosz	Central & Eastern European Literature	Polish Nobel laureate; wrote The Captive Mind, analyzing intellectuals' capitulation to communism.
Darkness at Noon	Central & Eastern European Literature	Koestler's novel of an old Bolshevik interrogated and condemned in a Stalinist show trial.
elegy	Other	Mournful poetic form used by Rilke in the Duino Elegies and by many Romantic poets.
Eugene Onegin	Russian Literature	Pushkin's verse novel of a bored aristocrat who kills his friend Lensky in a duel.
Foucault's Pendulum	Italian Literature	Eco's novel of editors whose invented occult conspiracy spirals into real danger.
Miguel de Unamuno y Jugo	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Generation of '98 philosopher-novelist; wrote the existentialist "nivola" Mist.
Night	Other	Elie Wiesel's memoir of surviving Auschwitz and Buchenwald as a teenager.
Nikos Kazantzakis	Central & Eastern European Literature	Greek novelist; wrote Zorba the Greek and The Last Temptation of Christ.
Novalis	German-Language Literature	German early Romantic poet associated with the symbol of the blue flower.
Paul Verlaine	French Literature	French Symbolist poet linked to Rimbaud; known for musical, melancholic verse.
Pierre Corneille	French Literature	French Classical tragedian; wrote Le Cid, sparking a famous dramaturgical quarrel.
Sappho	Classical Antiquity	Greek lyric poet of Lesbos famed for intense personal odes to female beloveds.
symbolism	French Literature	Late-19th-century movement of suggestive, musical verse led by Baudelaire, Mallarme, and Verlaine.
The Seagull	Russian Literature	Chekhov's drama of thwarted artistic ambition and unrequited love at a country estate.
Wislawa Szymborska	Central & Eastern European Literature	Polish Nobel laureate poet known for irony and precision about everyday subjects.
"The Lady with the Dog"	Russian Literature	Chekhov's story of an adulterous affair begun at a Yalta seaside resort.
Alexander Sergeyevich Pushkin	Russian Literature	Full name of the founding poet of modern Russian literature; wrote Eugene Onegin.
An Enemy of the People	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama of a doctor ostracized for exposing his town's contaminated baths.
Berenger	French Literature	Ionesco's recurring Absurdist everyman protagonist, notably in Rhinoceros.
Dante Alighieri	Italian Literature	Italian poet of the Dolce Stil Novo; wrote The Divine Comedy, guided by Virgil and Beatrice.
Denis Diderot	French Literature	French Enlightenment philosophe who edited the Encyclopedie.
Gunter Grass	German-Language Literature	German Nobel laureate; wrote The Tin Drum, narrated by Oskar Matzerath.
Joseph Stalin	Other	Soviet dictator whose purges and cult of personality shadow works by Bulgakov, Solzhenitsyn, and Koestler.
Knut Hamsun	Scandinavian Literature	Norwegian Nobel laureate; wrote Hunger, a proto-modernist novel of starvation and pride.
One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich	Russian Literature	Solzhenitsyn's novel depicting a single day in a Soviet gulag labor camp.
Orpheus	Classical Antiquity	Mythic musician who descended to the underworld for Eurydice; a common link across many operas and poems.
robots	Central & Eastern European Literature	Term coined by Karel Capek in his play R.U.R. (Rossum's Universal Robots).
angels	German-Language Literature	Central figures of terrifying beauty in Rilke's Duino Elegies.
Arthur Koestler	Central & Eastern European Literature	Hungarian-British writer; wrote Darkness at Noon, exposing Stalinist show trials.
Cyrano de Bergerac	French Literature	Rostand's verse play of a large-nosed poet-swordsman who woos Roxane through Christian.
doctor	Other	Common occupation of protagonists such as Ibsen's Dr. Stockmann and Chekhov's physician-characters.
Greece	Classical Antiquity	Home of Sappho, Sophocles, and Aristophanes, and, in modern form, Cavafy and Kazantzakis.
Hans Christian Andersen	Scandinavian Literature	Danish author of literary fairy tales, including "The Little Mermaid" and "The Ugly Duckling."
Henryk Sienkiewicz	Central & Eastern European Literature	Polish Nobel laureate; wrote the historical epic Quo Vadis.
hunger	Scandinavian Literature	Central theme and title of Knut Hamsun's novel of a starving writer's pride in Christiania.
Kingdom of Spain	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Home of Cervantes, Lope de Vega, and Lorca.
Les Fleurs du Mal	French Literature	Baudelaire's Symbolist and Decadent poetry collection exploring spleen and the ideal.
Lope de Vega	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Prolific Spanish Golden Age dramatist; wrote Fuenteovejuna and The Dog in the Manger.
Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Full name of the author of Don Quixote.
Pale Fire	Russian Literature	Nabokov's novel structured as a poem with an unreliable, delusional annotator's commentary.
Roland	Medieval Literature	Hero of the Song of Roland, Charlemagne's knight betrayed by Ganelon at Roncevaux.
The Divine Comedy	Italian Literature	Dante's epic journey through Inferno, Purgatorio, and Paradiso guided by Virgil and Beatrice.
The Human Comedy	French Literature	Balzac's vast interlinked novel cycle depicting French society, including Pere Goriot.
The Lusiads	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Camoes's Portuguese national epic celebrating Vasco da Gama's voyage to India.
The Plague	French Literature	Camus's allegorical novel of an epidemic quarantining the Algerian city of Oran.
The Robbers	German-Language Literature	Schiller's Sturm und Drang drama of rebellious brothers Karl and Franz Moor.
"The Overcoat"	Russian Literature	Gogol's story of a poor clerk's obsession with a new coat, said to have spawned Russian realism.
All Quiet on the Western Front	German-Language Literature	Remarque's World War I novel narrated by soldier Paul Baumer.
Dario Fo	Italian Literature	Italian Nobel laureate playwright-satirist; wrote Accidental Death of an Anarchist.
