Satyricon	Classical Antiquity	Petronius's satirical Roman novel of Encolpius's picaresque adventures, including Trimalchio's lavish feast.
Seamus Heaney	British & Irish Literature	Irish Nobel laureate poet; translated Beowulf and wrote "Digging."
Segismundo	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Imprisoned prince questioning reality and illusion in Calderon's Life Is a Dream.
Selma Lagerlof	Scandinavian Literature	Swedish Nobel laureate; wrote The Wonderful Adventures of Nils.
sestina	Medieval Literature	Fixed six-stanza poetic form invented by the troubadours and later perfected by Dante and Petrarch.
Snow	Other	Pamuk's Turkish Nobel-laureate novel of political and religious tension in a snowbound border town.
sonnet	Italian Literature	Fixed 14-line poetic form perfected by Petrarch, later adapted across Europe.
spleen	French Literature	Recurring mood of ennui and disgust in Baudelaire's Les Fleurs du Mal.
Stanislaw Lem	Central & Eastern European Literature	Polish science-fiction writer; wrote Solaris.
Taras Bulba	Russian Literature	Gogol's novella of a Cossack leader whose sons split between loyalty and love.
The Cloven Viscount	Italian Literature	Calvino's fable of a nobleman split in two by a cannonball, one half good and one evil.
The Dog in the Manger	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Lope de Vega's comedy of a noblewoman who resents yet blocks her secretary's marriage to another.
The Drunken Boat	French Literature	Rimbaud's Symbolist poem narrated by a runaway, sinking boat's hallucinatory voyage.
the Duino Elegies	German-Language Literature	Rilke's ten elegies, begun at Duino Castle, on beauty, mortality, and confronting angels.
the Father	Scandinavian Literature	Strindberg's Naturalist tragedy of a cavalry captain driven mad by doubts over his daughter's paternity.
The Garden Party	Central & Eastern European Literature	Havel's Absurdist play satirizing bureaucratic jargon and conformity.
The Lesson	French Literature	Ionesco's Absurdist play of a tutoring session that escalates into the professor's murder of his student.
The Loser	German-Language Literature	Bernhard's novel of a pianist's obsessive rivalry with genius Glenn Gould.
The Master	Russian Literature	Bulgakov's tormented writer-protagonist in The Master and Margarita, author of the Pontius Pilate novel.
The Mayor of Zalamea	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Calderon's drama of a peasant mayor who executes a nobleman for raping his daughter.
The Periodic Table	Italian Literature	Primo Levi's memoir structured around chemical elements, reflecting on his Holocaust survival.
The Tartar Steppe	Italian Literature	Buzzati's novel of an officer wasting his life awaiting an invasion that never comes.
The Underground Man	Russian Literature	Dostoevsky's bitter, isolated narrator of Notes from Underground.
Theater of the Absurd	French Literature	Mid-20th-century dramatic movement of illogical, existentially bleak comedy led by Ionesco and Beckett.
Therese	French Literature	Mauriac's protagonist in Therese Desqueyroux, who poisons her husband.
Tirso de Molina	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Golden Age dramatist credited with originating the Don Juan legend in The Trickster of Seville.
Titus Maccius Plautus	Classical Antiquity	Roman comic playwright whose stock characters influenced later European comedy.
Tolstoy	Russian Literature	Russian Realist author of War and Peace and Anna Karenina.
Tomas	Central & Eastern European Literature	Kundera's surgeon protagonist torn between Tereza and his infidelities in The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
Tristan Tzara	German-Language Literature	Romanian-born co-founder of Dada in Zurich.
Vasco da Gama	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Portuguese explorer celebrated as the hero of Camoes's epic The Lusiads.
Venice	Italian Literature	Setting of Mann's Death in Venice and countless other European works.
Vienna	German-Language Literature	Austrian capital and fin-de-siecle cultural center of Rilke, Freud, and Zweig.
vowels	French Literature	Subject of Rimbaud's sonnet assigning colors to each vowel.
Waiting for Godot	British & Irish Literature	Beckett's Absurdist play of Vladimir and Estragon endlessly awaiting a figure who never arrives.
We	Russian Literature	Zamyatin's dystopian novel of a regimented future state, an influence on Orwell's 1984.
William of Baskerville	Italian Literature	Eco's Franciscan friar-detective investigating murders in The Name of the Rose.
Witold Gombrowicz	Central & Eastern European Literature	Polish novelist known for absurdist, identity-obsessed fiction; wrote Ferdydurke.
you	Italian Literature	Direct addressee of Calvino's metafictional If on a Winter's Night a Traveler.
"A Report to an Academy"	German-Language Literature	Kafka's story narrated by an ape who has learned to imitate humans to escape captivity.
"A Simple Heart"	French Literature	Flaubert's story of a servant woman's quiet, devoted life and simple faith.
"Babette's Feast"	Scandinavian Literature	Isak Dinesen's story of a French refugee cook's lavish meal transforming an austere Danish village.
"Invitation to the Voyage"	French Literature	Baudelaire's poem imagining an idealized escape with his beloved to a land of "luxury, calm, and pleasure."
"J'Accuse"	French Literature	Zola's open letter defending Alfred Dreyfus against his antisemitic false conviction.
"Le Horla"	French Literature	Maupassant's story of a man tormented by an invisible, possibly supernatural presence.
"Mademoiselle Fifi"	French Literature	Maupassant's story of a prostitute who kills a boastful Prussian officer.
"St. John's Eve"	Russian Literature	Gogol's folkloric tale of a young man's supernatural pact for treasure and love.
"The Bet"	Russian Literature	Chekhov's story of a wager over whether solitary confinement is worse than execution.
"The Black Monk"	Russian Literature	Chekhov's story of a scholar's visions of a ghostly monk, blurring genius and madness.
"The Bronze Horseman: A Petersburg Tale"	Russian Literature	Full title of Pushkin's poem of a clerk driven mad by Peter the Great's statue during a flood.
"The Burrow"	German-Language Literature	Kafka's story narrated by a paranoid burrowing creature obsessed with securing its tunnel.
"The Diary of a Madman"	Russian Literature	Gogol's story of a lowly clerk's descent into delusions of Spanish royalty.
"The Gentleman from San Francisco"	Russian Literature	Bunin's story of a wealthy tourist whose sudden death exposes life's vanity.
"The God Abandons Antony"	Central & Eastern European Literature	Cavafy's poem urging Mark Antony to face his fall from fortune with dignity.
"The Horla"	French Literature	Maupassant's story of a man tormented by an invisible, possibly supernatural presence.
"The Judgment"	German-Language Literature	Kafka's story of a son condemned to drown himself by his dying father's curse.
"The Panther"	German-Language Literature	Rilke's poem depicting a caged panther's numbed, pacing despair.
"The Piece of String"	French Literature	Maupassant's story of a peasant wrongly accused of theft over a picked-up scrap of string.
"The Swan"	French Literature	Baudelaire's poem meditating on exile and loss, inspired by a swan in a Paris under renovation.
"The Unknown Masterpiece"	French Literature	Balzac's story of a painter whose obsessive perfectionism ruins his final canvas.
"The Viy"	Russian Literature	Gogol's horror story of a seminarian tormented by a witch and a monstrous folkloric spirit.
"White Nights"	Russian Literature	Dostoevsky's novella of a lonely dreamer's brief romance during St. Petersburg's white nights.
"You must change your life"	German-Language Literature	Closing line of Rilke's sonnet "Archaic Torso of Apollo."
a duel	Russian Literature	Recurring plot device settling honor disputes, notably in Eugene Onegin and Fathers and Sons.
a panther	German-Language Literature	Subject of Rilke's poem depicting a caged animal's numbed despair.
A Rebours	French Literature	Huysmans's Decadent novel of an aesthete's reclusive pursuit of artificial, refined sensation.
A Void	French Literature	Perec's Oulipo novel written entirely without the letter "e."
Acmeism	Russian Literature	Silver Age poetic movement favoring clarity and concreteness, led by Akhmatova and Mandelstam.
actors	Other	Recurring metatheatrical figures, notably in Pirandello's Six Characters in Search of an Author.
Alberto Moravia	Italian Literature	Italian novelist of psychological alienation; wrote Contempt and The Conformist.
Albrecht von Wallenstein	German-Language Literature	Thirty Years' War general dramatized in Schiller's Wallenstein trilogy.
Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn	Russian Literature	Full name of the Soviet dissident Nobel laureate author of The Gulag Archipelago.
Alexander the Great	Classical Antiquity	Macedonian conqueror occasionally referenced across classical and later European literature.
Alexandre Dumas, fils	French Literature	French novelist-dramatist son of Dumas pere; wrote The Lady of the Camellias.
alexandrine	French Literature	Twelve-syllable poetic line standard in French Classical drama, including Racine's tragedies.
alexandrines	French Literature	Plural form of the twelve-syllable line standard in French Classical tragedy.
Alfred de Musset	French Literature	French Romantic poet-dramatist; wrote the autobiographical novel The Confession of a Child of the Century.
Alfred Dreyfus	French Literature	French Jewish military officer wrongly convicted of treason, defended by Zola's "J'Accuse."
Alfred Jarry	French Literature	French proto-Absurdist; wrote Ubu Roi and founded the "science" of Pataphysics.
Alyosha Karamazov	Russian Literature	The youngest, spiritually devout Karamazov brother in Dostoevsky's novel.
