Troy	Classical Antiquity	Ancient city besieged in the Trojan War, central to Homer's Iliad.
United States of America	Other	Nation occasionally referenced as an emigre destination in this unit's exile literature.
Vaclav	Central & Eastern European Literature	First name of Czech dissident playwright-president Vaclav Havel.
Vergil	Classical Antiquity	Alternate spelling of the Roman epic poet who wrote the Aeneid and guided Dante.
Viktor Shklovsky	Russian Literature	Russian Formalist critic who coined the concept of "defamiliarization."
Vladimir Sorokin	Russian Literature	Contemporary Russian novelist known for transgressive satire of Soviet and post-Soviet society.
voyages	French Literature	Central theme of Jules Verne's Voyages Extraordinaires adventure novels.
Waiting for the Barbarians	Other	Coetzee's South African novel of a magistrate confronting empire's brutality at its frontier.
Walter Benjamin	German-Language Literature	German-Jewish critic-philosopher; wrote "The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction."
weddings	Other	Recurring festive and tragic occasion across European drama, as in Lorca's Blood Wedding.
Werther	German-Language Literature	Goethe's lovesick protagonist whose suicide over Lotte sparked a Romantic fashion trend.
William Butler Yeats	British & Irish Literature	Irish Nobel laureate poet of the Irish Literary Revival; wrote "The Second Coming."
William Tell	German-Language Literature	Schiller's drama dramatizing the legendary Swiss archer's revolt against Habsburg tyranny.
Winfried Georg Sebald	German-Language Literature	Full name of the German writer of the hybrid memoir-fiction novel Austerlitz.
Wolfram von Eschenbach	Medieval Literature	Medieval German poet; wrote the Arthurian romance Parzival.
wolves	German-Language Literature	Central image in Hesse's Steppenwolf, the "wolf of the steppes."
Yasmina Reza	French Literature	French playwright; wrote the comedy Art, on a controversial all-white painting.
Zeno	Italian Literature	Svevo's self-deceiving narrator in the novel Zeno's Conscience, undergoing psychoanalysis.
