Johann Wolfgang von Goethe	German-Language Literature	German polymath of Weimar Classicism; wrote Faust and The Sorrows of Young Werther, launching Sturm und Drang.
Italo Calvino	Italian Literature	Italian postmodernist and Oulipo member; wrote Invisible Cities, If on a Winter's Night a Traveler, and Cosmicomics.
Franz Kafka	German-Language Literature	Prague-born German-language modernist; wrote The Trial, The Castle, and The Metamorphosis on alienation and bureaucracy.
Rainer Maria Rilke	German-Language Literature	Austrian modernist poet; wrote Duino Elegies and Sonnets to Orpheus on beauty, mortality, and transcendence.
Honore de Balzac	French Literature	French Realist; wrote La Comedie Humaine, including Pere Goriot and Eugenie Grandet.
Federico Garcia Lorca	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish poet-dramatist of the Generation of '27; wrote Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba; executed in the Spanish Civil War.
Bertolt Brecht	German-Language Literature	German Marxist dramatist who developed Epic Theatre's alienation effect; wrote Mother Courage and The Caucasian Chalk Circle.
Umberto Eco	Italian Literature	Italian semiotician-novelist; wrote The Name of the Rose and Foucault's Pendulum, blending medieval mystery with theory.
Don Quixote	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Cervantes's mock-chivalric novel of a deluded knight and squire Sancho Panza tilting at windmills.
Anton Chekhov	Russian Literature	Russian master of understated realist drama and short story; wrote The Cherry Orchard, Three Sisters, and Uncle Vanya.
Charles Baudelaire	French Literature	French Symbolist and Decadent poet; wrote Les Fleurs du Mal, exploring spleen, urban decay, and beauty.
Milan Kundera	Central & Eastern European Literature	Czech-French postmodernist; wrote The Unbearable Lightness of Being and The Book of Laughter and Forgetting.
Eugene Ionesco	French Literature	Romanian-French Theatre of the Absurd playwright; wrote Rhinoceros, The Bald Soprano, and The Chairs.
Guy de Maupassant	French Literature	French Naturalist master of the short story; wrote "Boule de Suif" and "The Necklace."
Alexander Pushkin	Russian Literature	Founding poet of modern Russian literature; wrote Eugene Onegin and "The Bronze Horseman."
Thomas Mann	German-Language Literature	German modernist novelist; wrote Buddenbrooks, Death in Venice, and The Magic Mountain.
August Strindberg	Scandinavian Literature	Swedish Naturalist and Expressionist dramatist; wrote Miss Julie and A Dream Play.
Marcel Proust	French Literature	French modernist author of In Search of Lost Time, exploring involuntary memory via the madeleine episode.
Anna Akhmatova	Russian Literature	Acmeist Silver Age poet; wrote Requiem, mourning victims of Stalinist repression.
Nikolai Gogol	Russian Literature	Ukrainian-Russian writer of Dead Souls and "The Overcoat," blending grotesque satire with Romanticism.
Henrik Ibsen	Scandinavian Literature	Norwegian father of modern realist drama; wrote A Doll's House, Hedda Gabler, and Ghosts.
Luigi Pirandello	Italian Literature	Italian modernist of the Theatre of the Grotesque; wrote Six Characters in Search of an Author.
Poland	Central & Eastern European Literature	Home of Mickiewicz, Sienkiewicz, Milosz, and Szymborska, several of the unit's Nobel laureates.
Isak Dinesen	Scandinavian Literature	Pen name of Danish writer Karen Blixen; wrote Out of Africa and Seven Gothic Tales.
Leo Tolstoy	Russian Literature	Russian Realist; wrote War and Peace and Anna Karenina, later embracing Christian anarchism.
Petrarch	Italian Literature	Italian humanist whose Canzoniere sonnets to Laura shaped the Renaissance lyric tradition.
Moliere	French Literature	French Classical comic playwright; wrote Tartuffe, The Misanthrope, and The Imaginary Invalid.
German	German-Language Literature	Language of Goethe, Kafka, Mann, and Rilke; a recurring common-link descriptor across the unit.
Jose Saramago	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Portuguese Nobel laureate of magical-realist allegory; wrote Blindness and The Stone Raft.
Spain	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Home of Cervantes and the Spanish Golden Age dramatists Lope de Vega and Calderon.
Gustave Flaubert	French Literature	French Realist perfectionist; wrote Madame Bovary and Sentimental Education.
Italy	Italian Literature	Home of Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio, and modern postmodernists like Calvino and Eco.
The Decameron	Italian Literature	Boccaccio's frame narrative of ten storytellers exchanging tales while fleeing the Black Death in Florence.
Vladimir Nabokov	Russian Literature	Russian-American emigre novelist; wrote Lolita and Pale Fire, bridging Russian and English traditions.
Emile Zola	French Literature	French Naturalist leader of the Rougon-Macquart cycle, including Germinal and Nana.
French	French Literature	Language uniting Moliere, Voltaire, Balzac, Proust, and the Theatre of the Absurd.
Friedrich Schiller	German-Language Literature	German Sturm und Drang and Weimar Classicism dramatist; wrote The Robbers and William Tell.
Ivan Turgenev	Russian Literature	Russian Realist; wrote Fathers and Sons, dramatizing the generational nihilist conflict.
Jean-Paul Sartre	French Literature	French Existentialist philosopher-novelist; wrote Nausea and the play No Exit.
Miss Julie	Scandinavian Literature	Strindberg's Naturalist tragedy of a countess's fatal liaison with her father's valet on Midsummer's Eve.
Italian	Italian Literature	Language linking Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio to modern authors like Calvino and Eco.
The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Central & Eastern European Literature	Kundera's novel of Tomas and Tereza set against the 1968 Prague Spring.
Victor Hugo	French Literature	French Romantic; wrote Les Miserables and Notre-Dame de Paris (The Hunchback of Notre-Dame).
Voltaire	French Literature	French Enlightenment philosophe; wrote the satirical Candide mocking Leibnizian optimism.
Maxim Gorky	Russian Literature	Russian founder of Socialist Realism; wrote the play The Lower Depths.
Hermann Hesse	German-Language Literature	German-Swiss Nobel laureate; wrote Siddhartha, Steppenwolf, and The Glass Bead Game.
Portugal	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Home of Camoes's The Lusiads, Fernando Pessoa, and Nobel laureate Jose Saramago.
Arthur Rimbaud	French Literature	French Symbolist poet; wrote "The Drunken Boat" and A Season in Hell before abandoning poetry as a teenager.
Mikhail Bulgakov	Russian Literature	Soviet satirist; wrote The Master and Margarita, in which the Devil upends Stalinist Moscow.
Stendhal	French Literature	French Realist; wrote The Red and the Black and The Charterhouse of Parma.
The Master and Margarita	Russian Literature	Bulgakov's satire in which Satan and his retinue upend Stalinist Moscow alongside Pontius Pilate chapters.
A Doll's House	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama ending with Nora Helmer slamming the door on her marriage, a landmark feminist scene.
Fyodor Dostoevsky	Russian Literature	Russian existentialist-realist; wrote Crime and Punishment, The Brothers Karamazov, and The Idiot.
Jean Racine	French Literature	French Neoclassical tragedian; wrote Phedre and Athalie.
Albert Camus	French Literature	Algerian-French absurdist and existentialist; wrote The Stranger and The Plague.
Heinrich Heine	German-Language Literature	German Romantic poet; wrote "The Lorelei" and satirical political verse.
Polish	Central & Eastern European Literature	Language of Mickiewicz, Sienkiewicz, Milosz, and Szymborska.
Russian	Russian Literature	Language of Pushkin, Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, and Chekhov.
The Name of the Rose	Italian Literature	Eco's medieval murder mystery set in a monastery, narrated by novice Adso alongside William of Baskerville.
Blindness	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Saramago's allegorical novel of a city struck by an epidemic of sudden white blindness.
Ghosts	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama exposing hereditary syphilis and hypocrisy behind a respectable widow's household.
Don Juan	Other	Legendary libertine seducer dramatized by Moliere and Tirso de Molina, and versified by Byron.
Giovanni Boccaccio	Italian Literature	Italian humanist; wrote the frame-narrative Decameron, foundational to European prose fiction.
If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Italian Literature	Calvino's Oulipian metafiction addressed to "you," the reader, dramatizing the act of reading itself.
Karel Capek	Central & Eastern European Literature	Czech writer who coined the word "robot" in his play R.U.R.; also wrote the satire War with the Newts.
Norway	Scandinavian Literature	Home of Ibsen, Hamsun, and Undset.
Romania	Central & Eastern European Literature	Birthplace of Absurdist playwright Eugene Ionesco before his emigration to France.
The Brothers Karamazov	Russian Literature	Dostoevsky's final novel of three brothers and a patricide, weighing faith against rationalism via the Grand Inquisitor.
Boris Pasternak	Russian Literature	Russian Nobel laureate forced to decline the prize; wrote Doctor Zhivago, spanning the Russian Revolution.
Czech	Central & Eastern European Literature	Language of Kafka's contemporaries Capek and Hasek, and later Kundera and Havel.
Death in Venice	German-Language Literature	Mann's novella of aging writer Gustav von Aschenbach's obsession with a boy amid a cholera outbreak.
Duino Elegies	German-Language Literature	Rilke's ten elegies, begun at Duino Castle, on beauty, mortality, and confronting angels.
Elena Ferrante	Italian Literature	Pseudonymous Italian novelist; wrote the Neapolitan Quartet, including My Brilliant Friend.
Heinrich von Kleist	German-Language Literature	German Romantic; wrote the novella Michael Kohlhaas and the comedy The Broken Jug.
Marquis de Sade	French Literature	French libertine writer of transgressive works like Justine, giving rise to the term "sadism."
Pedro Calderon de la Barca	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Golden Age dramatist; wrote Life Is a Dream and The Mayor of Zalamea.
Surrealism	French Literature	Andre Breton's movement blending dream logic and automatic writing, launched by his 1924 Manifesto.
Switzerland	German-Language Literature	Home of German-language writers Hermann Hesse and Max Frisch.
Yiddish	Other	Language of Isaac Bashevis Singer and "Gimpel the Fool," rooted in Eastern European Jewish tradition.
Austria	German-Language Literature	Home of Rilke, Kafka's Habsburg-era milieu, and fin-de-siecle Vienna's literary culture.
