Francois Villon	Medieval Literature	French medieval poet-vagabond; wrote "The Testament," blending ballad forms with themes of mortality.
Friedrich Holderlin	German-Language Literature	German Romantic-era poet of hymn-like odes; wrote Hyperion; later succumbed to mental illness.
Gerhart Hauptmann	German-Language Literature	German Naturalist Nobel laureate playwright; wrote The Weavers.
Iceland	Scandinavian Literature	Home of medieval sagas and Nobel laureate Halldor Laxness.
Il Canzoniere	Italian Literature	Petrarch's collection of sonnets addressed to his idealized beloved Laura.
Isaac Bashevis Singer	Other	Polish-American Yiddish Nobel laureate; wrote "Gimpel the Fool."
Lolita	Russian Literature	Nabokov's novel narrated by Humbert Humbert, obsessed with the young Dolores Haze.
Mikhail Lermontov	Russian Literature	Russian Romantic poet-novelist; wrote A Hero of Our Time, featuring the "superfluous man" Pechorin.
Oulipo	French Literature	French experimental constraint-writing group including Calvino, Perec, and Queneau.
Portuguese	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Language of Camoes, Pessoa, and Saramago.
Russia	Russian Literature	Home of Pushkin, Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, and Chekhov.
Sigrid Undset	Scandinavian Literature	Norwegian Nobel laureate; wrote the medieval historical trilogy Kristin Lavransdatter.
St. Petersburg	Russian Literature	Russian imperial capital setting Gogol's, Dostoevsky's, and Pushkin's "The Bronze Horseman."
Sweden	Scandinavian Literature	Home of Strindberg and site of the Swedish Academy that awards the Nobel Prize.
The Flowers of Evil	French Literature	English title of Baudelaire's Les Fleurs du Mal, exploring spleen and decadence.
The Idiot	Russian Literature	Dostoevsky's novel of the saintly, epileptic Prince Myshkin navigating corrupt St. Petersburg society.
troubadours	Medieval Literature	Occitan courtly-love poets of medieval southern France.
Vaclav Havel	Central & Eastern European Literature	Czech dissident absurdist playwright who became president; wrote The Garden Party.
Virgil	Classical Antiquity	Roman epic poet; wrote the Aeneid and guided Dante through Inferno and Purgatorio.
Yerma	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Lorca's tragedy of a childless woman's obsession with fertility, ending in her husband's murder.
"Ball of Fat"	French Literature	Maupassant's story (Boule de Suif) of a prostitute pressured to sleep with a Prussian officer.
Alexander	Other	Common first name shared by Pushkin, Solzhenitsyn, and other Russian authors in this unit.
Aristophanes	Classical Antiquity	Greek Old Comedy playwright; wrote Lysistrata and The Clouds.
Auschwitz	Other	Nazi death camp central to Holocaust literature by Levi, Wiesel, and Kertesz.
Candide	French Literature	Voltaire's satirical hero who journeys the world disproving his tutor Pangloss's optimism.
commedia dell'arte	Italian Literature	Italian improvised theatrical tradition of stock masked characters like Pierrot and Harlequin.
Dutch	Other	Language of Netherlands-based writers such as Harry Mulisch.
Giacomo Leopardi	Italian Literature	Italian Romantic poet of pessimistic lyric verse.
Greek	Classical Antiquity	Language of Homer, Sappho, and the Athenian tragedians.
Guillaume Apollinaire	French Literature	French avant-garde poet who coined "surrealism"; wrote Calligrammes.
Hedda Gabler	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama of a restless general's daughter who destroys those around her before shooting herself.
Heinrich Theodor Boll	German-Language Literature	Full name of the German Group 47 Nobel laureate novelist.
Horace	Classical Antiquity	Roman lyric poet of the Odes and Ars Poetica, an Augustan contemporary of Virgil.
Hungary	Central & Eastern European Literature	Home of novelists Krasznahorkai and Holocaust writer Kertesz.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau	French Literature	Swiss-French Enlightenment philosopher; wrote The Social Contract and the Confessions.
Jose de Sousa Saramago	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Full name of the Portuguese Nobel laureate who wrote Blindness.
Laura	Italian Literature	Idealized beloved addressed throughout Petrarch's Canzoniere sonnets.
Naples	Italian Literature	Southern Italian setting of Ferrante's Neapolitan Quartet novels.
Nora Helmer	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's protagonist who abandons her husband and children to seek independence in A Doll's House.
Orlando	British & Irish Literature	Virginia Woolf's novel of a protagonist who lives for centuries and changes sex from male to female.
Romanticism	German-Language Literature	Movement of emotion and nature over reason, spanning Goethe, Novalis, and Hoffmann in German lands.
Seven Gothic Tales	Scandinavian Literature	Isak Dinesen's debut short-story collection of eerie, fantastical narratives.
Tartuffe	French Literature	Moliere's comedy of a religious hypocrite who cons a gullible bourgeois household.
The Chairs	French Literature	Ionesco's Absurdist play of an elderly couple addressing an audience of empty chairs.
The Charterhouse of Parma	French Literature	Stendhal's novel following young Fabrice del Dongo through Italian court intrigue.
the cherry orchard	Russian Literature	Chekhov's drama of an aristocratic family forced to sell their beloved estate.
The House of Bernarda Alba	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Lorca's tragedy of a domineering matriarch's oppressive rule over her daughters.
The Magic Mountain	German-Language Literature	Mann's novel set at a Swiss tuberculosis sanatorium, following patient Hans Castorp.
The Master Builder	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama of an aging architect confronted by a young admirer, ending in a fatal fall.
the moon	Other	Recurring poetic image across European Romantic and Symbolist verse.
The Tin Drum	German-Language Literature	Grass's novel narrated by Oskar Matzerath, who refuses to grow past age three.
The Trial	German-Language Literature	Kafka's novel of Josef K., arrested and prosecuted by an inaccessible, absurd court.
Adolf Hitler	Other	Nazi dictator whose regime looms over Holocaust and postwar German literature.
Crime and Punishment	Russian Literature	Dostoevsky's novel of student Raskolnikov's murder of a pawnbroker and ensuing guilt.
Emma Bovary	French Literature	Flaubert's provincial heroine whose romantic delusions and debts lead to her suicide.
Friedrich Durrenmatt	German-Language Literature	Swiss dramatist; wrote The Visit and The Physicists.
Germany	German-Language Literature	Home of Goethe, Schiller, Kafka's German-language milieu, Mann, and Rilke.
Les Rougon-Macquart	French Literature	Zola's twenty-novel Naturalist cycle tracing one family's heredity, including Germinal and Nana.
Luis de Gongora	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Baroque poet of ornate conceptismo/culteranismo verse (gongorism).
Menander	Classical Antiquity	Greek New Comedy playwright whose domestic plots influenced Roman comedy.
Miguel de Unamuno	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Generation of '98 philosopher; wrote the novel Mist and the essay The Tragic Sense of Life.
Napoleon Bonaparte	Other	French emperor whose campaigns provide the backdrop for War and Peace and much Romantic-era fiction.
Nausea	French Literature	Sartre's existentialist novel of Roquentin's crisis confronting the meaninglessness of existence.
Nikolai Vasilievich Gogol	Russian Literature	Full name of the author of Dead Souls and "The Overcoat."
No Exit	French Literature	Sartre's play in which three damned souls torment each other in a locked room ("Hell is other people").
Ovid	Classical Antiquity	Roman poet of the Metamorphoses, a compendium of mythic transformations.
Rhinoceros	French Literature	Ionesco's Absurdist play in which townspeople transform into rhinoceroses, a parable of conformism.
Ricardo Reis	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	One of Fernando Pessoa's literary heteronyms, a classicizing poet.
Soviet Union	Russian Literature	Communist state whose censorship and gulags shaped Bulgakov, Solzhenitsyn, and Pasternak.
Spanish Civil War	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	1930s conflict during which Federico Garcia Lorca was executed by Nationalist forces.
Sturm und Drang	German-Language Literature	Late-18th-century German movement of emotional intensity led by young Goethe and Schiller.
The Imaginary Invalid	French Literature	Moliere's final comedy satirizing a hypochondriac obsessed with doctors.
The Leopard	Italian Literature	Lampedusa's novel of a Sicilian prince witnessing his aristocratic world's decline during unification.
The Lower Depths	Russian Literature	Gorky's play depicting impoverished lodgers in a squalid Russian flophouse.
The Stranger	French Literature	Camus's novel of Meursault, whose indifferent killing of an Arab man leads to his trial and execution.
World War II	Other	Global conflict whose occupation, resistance, and Holocaust shaped much mid-century European fiction.
Zorba the Greek	Central & Eastern European Literature	Kazantzakis's novel of a bookish narrator's friendship with the life-embracing laborer Zorba.
"In the Penal Colony"	German-Language Literature	Kafka's story of a torturous execution device that inscribes the condemned's sentence on their body.
A Hero of Our Time	Russian Literature	Lermontov's novel introducing the disaffected "superfluous man" Pechorin.
Bruno Schulz	Central & Eastern European Literature	Polish-Jewish writer of surreal short fiction, murdered by a Nazi officer.
