opera	Other	Musical-dramatic genre frequently intersecting with literary sources across Europe.
opera singer	Other	Recurring occupation, notably in Zweig's and other Central European fiction.
Osip Mandelstam	Russian Literature	Acmeist Silver Age poet who died in a Stalinist labor camp after criticizing Stalin.
Ottoman Empire	Central & Eastern European Literature	Historical power whose rule over the Balkans shapes Andric's and Kadare's fiction.
passion plays	Medieval Literature	Medieval dramatic reenactments of Christ's crucifixion, an ancestor of European theater.
Paul	Other	Common first name shared across multiple European authors and characters.
Paul Baumer	German-Language Literature	Remarque's young soldier protagonist narrating All Quiet on the Western Front.
Paul Eluard	French Literature	French Surrealist poet; wrote Capital of Pain.
Pierrot	Italian Literature	Melancholic clown stock character from commedia dell'arte, later a Symbolist icon.
playing piano	Other	Recurring activity, notably in Bernhard's The Loser, on obsessive musicianship.
Pnin	Russian Literature	Nabokov's novel of a bumbling, endearing Russian emigre professor in America.
Poetics	Classical Antiquity	Aristotle's treatise establishing foundational theory of tragedy, epic, and mimesis.
prostitutes	Other	Recurring character type across Naturalist and Realist European fiction.
Publius Ovidius Naso	Classical Antiquity	Full Roman name of the poet Ovid, author of the Metamorphoses.
realism	French Literature	19th-century movement of faithfully depicting everyday life, codified by Balzac, Stendhal, and Flaubert.
rings	Other	Recurring symbolic object across European myth and fantasy.
Rocinante	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Don Quixote's aged, scrawny horse in Cervantes's novel.
roses	Other	Recurring symbolic flower, from the medieval Romance of the Rose to Saint-Exupery's Little Prince.
Rubble Literature	German-Language Literature	Postwar German genre (Trummerliteratur) confronting the physical and moral wreckage of World War II.
Ruggiero	Italian Literature	Knight-hero in Ariosto's chivalric epic Orlando Furioso.
Saint Petersburg	Russian Literature	Russian imperial capital setting Gogol's, Dostoevsky's, and Pushkin's "The Bronze Horseman."
Saladin	Italian Literature	Muslim sultan portrayed generously in Boccaccio's Decameron and referenced in crusading literature.
sanatorium	German-Language Literature	Setting of Mann's The Magic Mountain, where tuberculosis patients convalesce.
Sandor Marai	Central & Eastern European Literature	Hungarian novelist; wrote Embers, on a decades-old friendship's confrontation.
science fiction	Central & Eastern European Literature	Genre pioneered in this unit by Capek's robot dramas and Lem's Solaris.
seven	Other	Recurring symbolic number across European myth and poetry.
Seville	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Andalusian city setting for the Don Juan legend and The Barber of Seville.
shipwrecks	Other	Recurring disaster motif across European adventure and exile literature.
Silver Age	Russian Literature	Early-20th-century Russian poetic flowering including Akhmatova and Mandelstam.
Simplicius Simplicissimus	German-Language Literature	Grimmelshausen's picaresque novel of a naif's survival through the Thirty Years' War.
Singer	Other	Surname of Yiddish Nobel laureate Isaac Bashevis Singer.
Sir Thomas Wyatt	Other	English Renaissance poet who introduced the Petrarchan sonnet form into English.
six	Other	Recurring symbolic number, notably in Pirandello's Six Characters in Search of an Author.
skaz	Russian Literature	Russian narrative technique mimicking oral, colloquial storytelling voice, used by Gogol and Leskov.
Svetlana Alexievich	Russian Literature	Belarusian Nobel laureate; wrote oral-history works like Voices from Chernobyl.
Symbolist movement	French Literature	Late-19th-century movement of suggestive, musical verse led by Baudelaire, Mallarme, and Verlaine.
syphilis	Scandinavian Literature	Hereditary disease driving the tragedy of Ibsen's Ghosts.
Terence	Classical Antiquity	Roman comic playwright whose polished style influenced later European comedy.
Tereza	Central & Eastern European Literature	Kundera's photographer protagonist torn by jealousy over Tomas's infidelities.
the author	Other	Recurring metafictional figure addressed or embodied, as in Calvino's and Pirandello's works.
The Baron in the Trees	Italian Literature	Calvino's fable of a nobleman who lives his entire life in the treetops.
the Black Death	Italian Literature	14th-century plague forming the frame for Boccaccio's storytellers in the Decameron.
The Book of Hours	German-Language Literature	Rilke's early poetry collection of devotional, mystical verse.
The Broken Jug	German-Language Literature	Kleist's comedy of a corrupt judge investigating a crime he himself committed.
the center of the Earth	French Literature	Destination of Jules Verne's adventurers in Journey to the Center of the Earth.
The Clown	German-Language Literature	Boll's novel of a disillusioned entertainer estranged from postwar German Catholic society.
the end of the world	Central & Eastern European Literature	Apocalyptic theme central to Krasznahorkai's The Melancholy of Resistance.
The Erasers	French Literature	Robbe-Grillet's nouveau roman mystery subverting detective-novel conventions.
The God that Failed	Central & Eastern European Literature	Koestler-edited essay collection of former communists' disillusionment.
The Heart of a Dog	Russian Literature	Bulgakov's satirical novella of a dog surgically transformed into a boorish Soviet man.
The Immoralist	French Literature	Gide's novel of a man's self-liberation into hedonism after recovering from illness.
The Importance of Being Earnest	British & Irish Literature	Wilde's comedy of mistaken identities and double lives among the aristocracy.
The Late Mattia Pascal	Italian Literature	Pirandello's novel of a man who exploits his own presumed death to start a new life.
The Life of Lazarillo de Tormes and of His Fortunes and Adversities	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Full title of the anonymous novella founding the picaresque genre.
The Lover	French Literature	Duras's autobiographical novel of a teenage girl's affair with an older man in colonial Vietnam.
The Makropulos Affair	Central & Eastern European Literature	Capek's play of a woman who has lived 300 years via an immortality elixir.
The Manuscript Found in Saragossa	Central & Eastern European Literature	Potocki's labyrinthine frame-narrative novel of nested supernatural tales.
The Melancholy of Resistance	Central & Eastern European Literature	Krasznahorkai's apocalyptic novel of a circus arriving in a decaying Hungarian town.
The Misanthrope	French Literature	Moliere's comedy of a man whose brutal honesty alienates polite society.
The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana	Italian Literature	Eco's novel of an amnesiac antiquarian bookseller reconstructing his past through old media.
The Nonexistent Knight	Italian Literature	Calvino's fable of a suit of armor containing no actual knight inside.
The Nose	Russian Literature	Gogol's absurdist story of a bureaucrat whose nose detaches and assumes a life of its own.
The Odyssey	Classical Antiquity	Homer's epic of Odysseus's ten-year journey home to Ithaca after the Trojan War.
the penal colony	German-Language Literature	Setting of Kafka's story depicting a torturous execution device.
The Physicists	German-Language Literature	Durrenmatt's play of scientists feigning madness in an asylum to avoid weaponizing their discoveries.
The Possessed	Russian Literature	Alternate title of Dostoevsky's novel on a nihilist revolutionary conspiracy.
The Princess of Cleves	French Literature	Lafayette's novel, often called the first French psychological novel, of a married woman's forbidden love.
The Six Characters	Italian Literature	Shortened title of Pirandello's metatheatrical Six Characters in Search of an Author.
The Stone Raft	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Saramago's fantastical novel in which the Iberian Peninsula breaks off and drifts into the Atlantic.
The Temptation of Saint Anthony	French Literature	Flaubert's experimental drama of the hermit saint's hallucinatory trials.
The Trojan Women	Classical Antiquity	Euripides's tragedy depicting the suffering of women after Troy's fall.
the Virgin Mary	Other	Central Christian figure referenced across medieval and later European religious literature.
the Wandering Jew	Other	Legendary cursed figure doomed to wander until Judgment Day, recurring across European folklore and fiction.
The Wasps	Classical Antiquity	Aristophanes's comedy satirizing Athenian litigiousness through a chorus of jurors.
The Weavers	German-Language Literature	Hauptmann's Naturalist play dramatizing a Silesian weavers' uprising.
Tomas Gosta Transtromer	Scandinavian Literature	Swedish Nobel laureate poet known for spare, image-driven verse.
Tomcat Murr	German-Language Literature	Hoffmann's novel narrated partly by a self-important, philosophizing cat.
Tonight We Improvise	Italian Literature	Pirandello's metatheatrical play blurring rehearsal and performance.
Tonio Kroger	German-Language Literature	Mann's novella of an artist torn between bourgeois normalcy and creative alienation.
trials	German-Language Literature	Central ordeal of Kafka's The Trial, in which Josef K. is prosecuted by an inaccessible court.
