epic	Classical Antiquity	Long narrative poetic form originating with Homer's Iliad and Odyssey.
epilepsy	Russian Literature	Condition afflicting Dostoevsky himself and his character Prince Myshkin in The Idiot.
Ernst Junger	German-Language Literature	German writer of the World War I memoir Storm of Steel.
fables	Classical Antiquity	Short moral animal tales attributed to Aesop.
Figaro	French Literature	Beaumarchais's clever barber-valet hero of The Barber of Seville and The Marriage of Figaro.
Flights	Central & Eastern European Literature	Tokarczuk's fragmentary novel on travel, the body, and human restlessness.
flowers	French Literature	Central image of Baudelaire's Les Fleurs du Mal (The Flowers of Evil).
Friedrich Nietzsche	German-Language Literature	German philosopher of the "will to power" and eternal recurrence; wrote Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky	Russian Literature	Full name of the Russian existentialist-realist author of Crime and Punishment.
Gabriele d'Annunzio	Italian Literature	Italian decadent poet-novelist and nationalist political figure.
Garcilaso de la Vega	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Renaissance poet who introduced Italianate verse forms to Spain.
George Orwell	British & Irish Literature	English author of dystopian fiction; wrote 1984 and Animal Farm.
Gerard de Nerval	French Literature	French Romantic poet of dreamlike prose; wrote "El Desdichado" and Aurelia.
German Romanticism	German-Language Literature	Early-19th-century movement of Novalis, Hoffmann, and Kleist emphasizing emotion and folklore.
Gil Blas	French Literature	Lesage's picaresque novel following a young Spaniard's rise through varied fortunes.
Gustavo Adolfo Becquer	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Spanish Romantic poet known for his Rimas and Gothic Legends.
Harry Mulisch	Other	Dutch novelist; wrote The Assault and The Discovery of Heaven.
hell	Italian Literature	First realm of Dante's afterlife journey in the Divine Comedy's Inferno.
Holy Grail	Medieval Literature	Sacred vessel sought by knights in Arthurian romance, notably Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival.
Independent People	Scandinavian Literature	Laxness's novel of a stubborn Icelandic sheep farmer's struggle for self-sufficiency.
Isaac Babel	Russian Literature	Soviet-Jewish writer; wrote Red Cavalry, on the Russian Civil War.
Ismail Kadare	Central & Eastern European Literature	Albanian novelist known for allegorical fiction under communist dictatorship.
Ithaca	Classical Antiquity	Odysseus's home island, his destination throughout Homer's Odyssey.
Ivanov	Russian Literature	Chekhov's early play of a disillusioned landowner's despair and suicide.
Ivo Andric	Central & Eastern European Literature	Yugoslav Nobel laureate; wrote The Bridge on the Drina.
Jean	Other	Common French first name shared by many authors and characters in this unit.
Jean-Baptiste Racine	French Literature	Full name of the French Neoclassical tragedian who wrote Phedre.
Jean Nicolas Arthur Rimbaud	French Literature	Full name of the French Symbolist poet of A Season in Hell.
Jenny Erpenbeck	German-Language Literature	German novelist addressing 20th-century displacement and division; wrote Go, Went, Gone.
Jerusalem	Other	Holy city featured in crusading epics like Tasso's Jerusalem Delivered.
Jerusalem Delivered	Italian Literature	Tasso's epic poem dramatizing the First Crusade's siege of Jerusalem.
Joan of Arc	Other	French heroine and martyr dramatized across European literature, including Schiller's The Maid of Orleans.
Johann Christian Friedrich Holderlin	German-Language Literature	Full name of the German Romantic-era poet of Hyperion.
John Gabriel Borkman	Scandinavian Literature	Ibsen's drama of a disgraced banker isolated after financial ruin and imprisonment.
Josef Stalin	Other	Alternate spelling of the Soviet dictator whose purges shadow much Russian and Eastern European fiction.
Julien Sorel	French Literature	Stendhal's ambitious, hypocritical protagonist in The Red and the Black.
Justine	French Literature	Marquis de Sade's novel of a virtuous woman's relentless suffering and abuse.
Klingsor	German-Language Literature	Sorcerer antagonist in Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival, also featured in Wagner's opera.
knights	Medieval Literature	Central figures of chivalric romance across medieval European epic and legend.
Knights Templar	Medieval Literature	Crusading military order featured in medieval and later historical fiction.
L'Assommoir	French Literature	Zola's Naturalist novel of a laundress's descent into poverty and alcoholism.
La Bete Humaine	French Literature	Zola's Naturalist novel of hereditary violence centered on a railway worker.
La Celestina	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Rojas's dialogue-novel and tragicomedy of a scheming go-between orchestrating a doomed love affair.
Le Pere Goriot	French Literature	Balzac's novel of a devoted father ruined by his daughters' ingratitude, alongside the schemer Vautrin.
lightness	Central & Eastern European Literature	Central philosophical concept in Kundera's The Unbearable Lightness of Being.
Lord Byron	Other	English Romantic poet; wrote Don Juan and Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, dying in the Greek War of Independence.
Marat/Sade	German-Language Literature	Peter Weiss's play staging the Marquis de Sade directing inmates in a drama about Marat's assassination.
Marco Polo	Italian Literature	Venetian traveler who narrates fantastical cities to Kublai Khan in Calvino's Invisible Cities.
Marguerite Yourcenar	French Literature	French (Belgian-born) novelist; wrote Memoirs of Hadrian.
Martial	Classical Antiquity	Roman epigrammatist known for witty, satirical short verse.
melancholy	Other	Central mood across Romantic and Symbolist poetry, notably Baudelaire's spleen.
Mikhail	Other	Common Russian first name shared by Bulgakov and Lermontov.
Mikhail Yuryevich Lermontov	Russian Literature	Full name of the Russian Romantic author of A Hero of Our Time.
Milady de Winter	French Literature	Cunning femme fatale antagonist in Dumas's The Three Musketeers.
moon	Other	Recurring poetic image across European Romantic and Symbolist verse.
Moscow	Russian Literature	Russian capital and setting of Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita and the sisters' longing in Chekhov's Three Sisters.
Nana	French Literature	Zola's Naturalist novel of a courtesan's rise and destructive effect on Parisian society.
Nathan the Wise	German-Language Literature	Lessing's Enlightenment drama arguing for religious tolerance among Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.
Niccolo Machiavelli	Italian Literature	Italian Renaissance political theorist; wrote The Prince.
nihilism	Russian Literature	Philosophy of rejecting all authority, dramatized through Turgenev's Bazarov in Fathers and Sons.
Nikolai Leskov	Russian Literature	Russian writer known for the novella "Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District."
nose	Russian Literature	Detachable body part at the center of Gogol's absurdist story "The Nose."
Notes from Underground	Russian Literature	Dostoevsky's novella narrated by a bitter, isolated "underground man" railing against rationalism.
Notre Dame de Paris	French Literature	Hugo's novel (The Hunchback of Notre-Dame) of the bellringer Quasimodo's love for Esmeralda.
Oscar Wilde	British & Irish Literature	Irish Aestheticist and Decadent writer; wrote The Picture of Dorian Gray and The Importance of Being Earnest.
Out of Africa	Scandinavian Literature	Isak Dinesen's memoir of her years running a coffee farm in Kenya.
Paradiso	Italian Literature	Third canticle of Dante's Divine Comedy, ascending through Heaven guided by Beatrice.
Parzival	Medieval Literature	Wolfram von Eschenbach's Arthurian romance of a knight's quest for the Holy Grail.
Paul Valery	French Literature	French Symbolist-adjacent poet; wrote "The Graveyard by the Sea."
Pere Goriot	French Literature	Balzac's novel of a devoted father ruined by his daughters' ingratitude.
Peter Weiss	German-Language Literature	German playwright; wrote Marat/Sade, staging revolutionary history within an asylum.
picaresque	Spanish & Portuguese Literature	Episodic novel genre following a roguish low-born protagonist, originating with Lazarillo de Tormes.
Pierre Beaumarchais	French Literature	French dramatist; wrote The Barber of Seville and The Marriage of Figaro.
Pierre de Ronsard	French Literature	French Renaissance poet and leader of the Pleiade group.
Poor Folk	Russian Literature	Dostoevsky's debut epistolary novel of an impoverished clerk's unrequited devotion.
Raymond Queneau	French Literature	French Oulipo co-founder; wrote Exercises in Style and Zazie in the Metro.
Roland Barthes	French Literature	French literary theorist and semiotician; wrote S/Z and Mythologies.
rose	Other	Recurring symbolic flower, from the medieval Romance of the Rose to Saint-Exupery's Little Prince.
Ruslan and Ludmila	Russian Literature	Pushkin's fairy-tale narrative poem of a knight's quest to rescue his abducted bride.
Sappho of Lesbos	Classical Antiquity	Full descriptor of the Greek lyric poet famed for intense odes to female beloveds.
