=== STOCK CLUES: Jainism ===
Tossup questions: 12 found, 66 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 29 found, 87 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Jains [or followers of Jainism or Jain dharma or Jaina tradition; accept Jain monks; accept Digambara or sky-clad Jains until read; accept Svetambara or white-clad Jains until "Digambara" is read; prompt on ascetics or monks; prompt on sramanas or samanas or renunciants]
  - In ancient South Asian sources, this kind of people were referred to by a term referring to their status as being "free from knots." A Gujarati group of these people who migrated from Palanpur usurped Antwerp's Hasidic community's control of the diamond trade. [PWR]
  - Extraordinarily rich examples of these people include Shantidas Jhaveri and the Jagat  Seth family, who served the Mughals and the Nawabs of Bengal. [PWR]
  - Many of these people allegedly moved south after one of these people convinced a ruler that his conquests would cause a (*) twelve-year famine. [PWR]
  - Legendarily, Bhadrabahu's teachings led a king to become one of these people and leave his kingdom to Bindusara.
  - For 10 points, Chandragupta Maurya allegedly starved himself in accordance with the principles of what religious group, following the tradition of their Digambara school? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Answer: Digambaras ("dig-UM-buh-ruhs") [or sky-clad Jains; prompt on Jainism, Jains, Jaina, or Jain Dharma until "Jainism" is read]
  - A revival movement within this sect that advocates distinguishing between the "true pure knowledge self" and "the other" as a path to enlightenment was founded by Kanji Swami.
  - A town central to this sect contains the 57-foot-tall Gommeteshwara statue, which is bathed in milk during a festival that takes place every 12 years.
  - The Adipurana, an epic written by a member of this sect, describes the life of Bahubali, whom this sect credits as being the first in the present age to achieve enlightenment.
  - Followers of this sect believe that Mallinatha was male since they teach that no woman can attain moksha.
  - Monks from this sect renounce almost all their possessions, only keeping a pot to boil water and a whisk broom to sweep away insects.
  - For 10 points, name this sect in Jainism whose monks go about naked, in contrast to those of the Shvetambara , or white-clad, sect. [GIVE]

[T3] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism [or Jain Dharma; or Svetambara or Digambara Jainism] [Rajchandra mentored Mahatma Gandhi, as recounted in the autobiography The Story of My Experiments with Truth]
  - A philosopher of this religion opposed a different religious thinker's denial of the veracity of either of the "two truths" in advocating the soul's pure "ultimate perspective" over the delusional "mundane perspective" in his book The Essence of the Doctrine.
  - A verse treatise from this religion that lists the existence, permanence, and agency of the soul among "six steps" was written by a thinker called "Kavi" by a thinker from another religion in the latter's memoir on "experimenting" with truth.
  - Kundakunda and Rajchandra followed this religion, whose logicians advised using the word "syad" to mean "maybe" and created a seven-valued logic.
  - This religion regards truth as "many-sided," and lists not stealing, celibacy, and non-possessiveness among its five vows.
  - For 10 points, name this dharmic religion whose three pillars include ahimsa. [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism [or Jain Dharma; prompt on Svetambara or Digambara before mention with "What larger faith is that sect a part of?"]
  - In this religion, menstruation incurs a mandatory four-day period of not being allowed to visit places of worship. [PWR]
  - Discourse in this faith argues whether "acts of deception" turn men into women and "acts of faith" turn women into men.
  - One sect in this religion believes that women are unable to achieve salvation because their menstrual blood kills living beings. [PWR]
  - Sects of this faith disagree whether the figure Mallinatha was a man or a woman, with one sect believing that Mallinatha was the sole female member of a set of (*) 24 holy figures of this religion. [PWR]
  - This faith's idea of a "third sex" or napumsakas has debated whether women can completely forego clothes and objects except for the broom-like picchi which pushes insects.
  - For 10 points, name this faith whose Svetambara and Digambara sects debate where women can achieve moksha by practicing ahimsa. [GIVE]

[T5] 2020 WORKSHOP (2020) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism
  - This religion holds that bodily activity causes the soul to receive an "influx" of particles, which are then "bound" to it, as two of its seven ontological principles. [PWR]
  - Thinkers of this religion developed a logic based on statements like "in some ways, it is, it is not, and it is indescribable," organized in a sevenfold scheme. [PWR]
  - A motto of this religion, "Souls render service to one another," makes use of its term for "living matter," or (*) jiva.
  - This religion acknowledges the partiality of all viewpoints in its principle of "many-sidedness" or anekantavada.
  - In this religion, only the three dogmas of right knowledge, right faith, and right conduct lead to moksha.
  - Many of this religion's principles were laid out by its twenty-fourth tirthankara, Mahavira.
  - For 10 points, name this Indian religion that focuses on nonviolence, or ahimsa. [GIVE]

[T6] 2019 MUSES (2019) | Diff: 10 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism [accept Jainadharma or Samanam]
  - One prayer from this religion opens by stating that "the divine glow of" a certain figure's nails "increases the luster of the jewels of their crowns." The closing section of that prayer from this religion states, "with great devotion I have made up this string of your virtues." Another prayer from this religion describes a deity as "the promulgator of the path to liberation." That (+) sutra from this religion also contains a phrase translated as "souls render service to one another." The Bhaktamara Stotra and Tattvartha Sutra are texts from this religion, and followers of this religion chant a (*) mantra that is recited while bowing to the Supreme Five. [PWR]
  - That is the Namokar Mantra.
  - Many hymns and sutras in this religion are dedicated to one of the 24 "ford makers" such as Malinatha and Parshvanatha.
  - For 10 points, name this religion that venerates the Tirthankaras and was founded by Mahavira. [GIVE]

[T7] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism
  - The teachings of one leader of this faith were divided into twelve Angas and fourteen Purvas at the council of Patliputra after centuries of oral tradition. [PWR]
  - A temple of this religion at Pavapuri contains footmarks said to be from a figure important to this religion. [PWR]
  - Rishabha is the first of (*) 24 legendary leaders of this faith, the last of whom was a contemporary of the Buddha.
  - One of the two main sects of this religion holds that women cannot attain enlightenment and that one should own no possessions including clothes, which is why the Digambara sect goes naked.
  - The doctrine of non-harm, or ahimsa, is central to-for 10 points-what religion of the Indian subcontinent? [GIVE]

[T8] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism
  - The earliest known image made by members of this religion is held at the Patna museum and is dated to approximately the 3rd century BC. [PWR]
  - One site in this religion is a building which models the terrestrial world as described in this religion's cosmology, and is called Jambudweep. [PWR]
  - A prominent site of pilgrimage for this religion is a series of stone-carved temples at Mount Abu. [PWR]
  - One term in this religion translates to "illustrious or worthy person" and references (*) 63 people who will appear in every cycle. [PWR]
  - Practitioners of this religion often fast to death in a practice which is called sallekhana, which is not considered suicide.
  - Sallekhana is considered a supplementary vow, taken in addition to the 5 main vows of this religion.
  - For 10 points, identify this religion whose adherents practice ahimsa, or nonviolence, and was founded by Mahavira, . [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism [or Jain Dharma; accept Svetambara Jainism until "minority" is read; accept Digambara Jainism until "divided" is read]
  - Medieval stories from this faith were collected in The Forest of Thieves and the Magic Garden by Yale scholar Phyllis Granoff.
  - According to this non-Abrahamic faith, the distant past included "wishing trees," which fulfilled needs when asked.
  - Adherents of this faith believe that as a person behaves badly, particles accumulate on their soul, unless they become a kevalin.
  - A minority sect of this religion believes that a great famine broke the transmission of all authentic Agama scriptures, and that Mallinath was a man, like all twenty-three of the other figures it reveres as "ford-builders," or tirthankaras.
  - For 10 points, name this faith divided into Svetambara and Digambara sects, a monastic Indian religion founded by Mahavira whose five vows include ahimsa, or non-violence. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism [or Jaina dharma]
  - This religion sorts all living things into five tiers, according to how many senses they possess. [PWR]
  - Its name is derived from a word meaning "to conquer", as its main focus is self-control. [PWR]
  - Followers of this religion are only allowed to commit suicide through fasting, a process known as sallekhana. [PWR]
  - It's not Hinduism, but the ultimate goal of followers of this religion is emancipation from reincarnation, or (*) moksha.
  - This religion follows the teachings of twenty-four enlightened figures, of which two are historically attested - these are the "ford-makers", or tirthankara.
  - For 10 points, name this Indian minority religion, whose followers practise ahimsa, or nonviolence. [GIVE]

[T11] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Answer: Digambara Jains [or sky-clad Jains until it is read; prompt on Jains or Jainism; prompt on Jain monks]
  - This sect believes that all of its religion's sacred texts have gradually disappeared, such that existing anga are not authentic.
  - This sect consistently depicts its holiest figures with downcast eyes, and believes that people who become kevalins no longer need food.
  - This sect believes that Mallinath must not have been a woman, since women must be reborn as men to achieve enlightenment or become tirthankaras.
  - Ascetics of this sect carry a water gourd and a peacock-feather broom to sweep insects away, and nothing else.
  - For 10 points, name this smaller and more austere sect of Jainism whose monks are "sky-clad," or naked, by contrast to the white robes of Svetambara monks. [GIVE]

[T12] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Answer: Jainism
  - In one prayer from this faith, the speaker proclaims "I bow down to those who have reached omniscience in the flesh." This faith's cosmology postulates the existence of beings with only the sense of touch called nigodas. [PWR]
  - In 1974, this faith adopted an official emblem which contains three dots near the top and an additional dot inside a curve, representing an (*) enlightened soul. [PWR]
  - The largest schism within this faith partially sprang from a dispute over whether it was possible for a woman to achieve salvation.
  - Lay members of this faith follow twelve vows, divided into the Anuvratas, Gunavratas, and Siksavratas, while monks within this faith are divided into the "white-clad" and "sky-clad" sects.
  - For 10 points, name this Indian faith based on the teachings of the Tirthankaras. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 UK Varsities (2026) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: In the Yajurveda, this deity is described as healing Indra after he drank too much Soma. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Saraswati [or Sarasvati]):
    Identify this goddess of knowledge and the arts venerated in Hinduism and other South Asian religions. In Japanese Buddhism, this deity was adapted into the goddess Benzaiten.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [or Jain Dharma]):
    Saraswati is also venerated in this South Asian religion as the deity responsible for spreading the teachings of the Tirthankaras ("teer-TAN-kuh-ruhz"). Adherents of this religion practice non-violence to all living creatures through the ahimsa principle.
  Part 3 (ans: Vasant Panchami [or Basant Panchami, accept Saraswati Puja]):
    Saraswati is honoured during this Hindu festival that marks the preparation for the start of spring. The celebrations of Holi and Holita occur forty days after this festival, usually held in late January or early February.

[B2] 2026 ACF Nationals (2026) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: Two members of this sect, Kundakunda and Pujyapada, respectively developed theories of the "pure soul" and authored a major commentary on the Tattvarthasutra. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Digambara [accept sky-clad]):
    Name this sect supposedly founded by the 1st-century monk Sivabhuti ("shiv-ah-BOO-tee") following an argument over whether it was acceptable for a monk to keep a gifted shawl.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [or Jain Dharma]):
    This religion, which faced schisms from the iconoclastic 15th-century Sthanakavasi movement and its 18th-century Terapanth offshoot, had its first major split with the emergence of Digambara.
  Part 3 (ans: murtis [or Murtipujaka; prompt on pratima, vigraha, or rupa]):
    Sthanakavasi Jains and Terapanth Jains both refuse to worship these statues. The majority of Jains are called "[this term]-pujaka" because they continue performing rituals to these statues, which are also used in Hinduism.

[B3] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: People repent for their sins twice a day in this religion's practice of pratikraman, which can also refer to a group of six avashyaks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism):
    Name this religion founded by Mahavira, which emphasizes ahimsa, or non-violence.
  Part 2 (ans: samayika):
    This principal Jain meditative practice typically lasts for 48 minutes when done by laypeople, and emphasizes being still in order to achieve equanimity. Pratikraman is often performed after this practice, another of the avashyaks.
  Part 3 (ans: arihants [or arhat; or arhant]):
    Samayika often involves reciting the Namokar mantra, which begins by stating "I bow to [these people]." Tirthankaras are a subgroup of these people, who become the less accessible siddhas.

[B4] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: Practitioners of this religion undertake pilgrimages to sites called "fords" where 24 holy figures called tirthankaras ("teer-TUNG-kuh-ruhs") "crossed over" into moksha. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism [or Jain Dharma]):
    Name this sramana("SHRUM-uh-nuh") religion whose adherents follow perspectivism and asceticism alongside nonviolence, or ahimsa.
  Part 2 (ans: Svetambara ("shway-TAHM-buh-ruh") OR Digambara ("dee-GUM-buh-ruh") [prompt on white-clad or sky-clad by asking "what is the original Sanskrit term?"]):
    These two groups of Jains are named for their dispute over whether monks can wear clothes, but also disagree over the gender of the 19th tirthankara Mallinatha ("muh-lee-NAH-tuh"), and whether women can attain nirvana. Name either.
  Part 3 (ans: Rishabha ("RISH-uh-buh") [or Rishabhanatha; or Rishabhadeva; or Adinatha; or Ikshvaku]):
    Only Svetambara Jains undertake the varshitapa fast on alternating days in honor of this first tirthankara, who broke his own fast by accepting sugarcane juice from his great-grandson King Sreyamsa ("shray-YAHM-suh").

[B5] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: This ethnicity lends its name to a dynasty which came to power under Narasa Nayaka, whose ancestors were naga-worshiping kshatriyas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tulu [or Tuluva; accept Tuluva dynasty; accept Tulunad or Tulu Nadu; accept Bunts, Billavas, Mogaveeras, Kulalas, Devadigas, or Ganigas; reject "Telugu"]):
    Give this Dravidian-speaking ethnicity which founded the Alupa dynasty in the 600s. Modern-day activists of this ethnicity seek to carve out a state in western Karnataka ("kar-NAH-tuh-kuh") and northern Kerala ("KAIR-uh-luh").
  Part 2 (ans: Vijayanagara ("VIJ-uh-yuh-NUH-guh-ruh") Empire):
    The Tuluva dynasty was this empire's third dynasty and included Krishnadevaraya, who patronized eight Telugu poets known as the Ashtadiggajas("USH-tuh-DIG-guh-juhs"). This empire declined after it lost the 1565 Battle of Talikota.
  Part 3 (ans: Jainism):
    The Tulu rani Abbakka Chowta ("UB-buck-kuh CHO-tah"), who defended her kingdom against the Portuguese, was notable for patronizing this religion. This religion's last tirthankara("teer-TUNG-kuh-ruh"), Mahavira, is thought to have been a prince of Kosala.

[B6] 2024 COOT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Images of these figures generally lack distinctive features and are identified by their lanchhana ("lahn-CHAH-nuh") symbols, with the exception of one usually depicted with a snake crown. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tirthankaras ("teer-TAHN-kuh-ruh")):
    Name these figures. The "five auspicious events" or Panch Kalyanaka ("pahnch kuhl-YAH-nuh-kuh") in the lives of these figures include renunciation and absolute knowledge.
  Part 2 (ans: Parshvanatha ("par-SHVA-nuh-tuh") [or Parshva or Parasnath or Parsvanatha or Parsva]):
    According to the Svetambara ("shveh-TAHM-buh-ruh") tradition, this tirthankara ("teer-TAHN-kuh-ruh") founded the doctrine of fourfold restraint. This tirthankara was the only one to gain the title of Kalikalkalpataru ("KAH-lee KAHL-kuhl PAH-tuh-roo").
  Part 3 (ans: Jainism [or Jain Dharma]):
    Parshvanatha was the 23rd and penultimate tirthankara, or "ford-maker", in this religion generally considered to have been founded by Mahavira.

[B7] 2024 Booster Shot (2024) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This religion's founder was the son of Siddhartha, king of the Ikshvaku dynasty's Gyat clan. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism [or Jain Dharma]):
    Name this ahimsa-focused religion whose historical founder was the twenty-fourth Tirthankara, Mahavira.
  Part 2 (ans: Indra):
    Like all previous and future Tirthankaras, this deity presided over the five most important events in Mahavira's life. This deity is often referred to as Sakra in Buddhist cosmology.
  Part 3 (ans: Mount Meru):
    The second of those five events is a Tirthankara's birth. When the next Tirthankara is born, Indra will take them to this location, the center of the universe in Buddhist and Jain cosmology.

[B8] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The Shaivite ("SHY-vyte") phase at one of these places likely drew on iconography attributed to the Early Kalachuris at another of them on Elephanta Island. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: caves [or caverns; accept cave temples; accept Ajanta Caves, Ellora Caves, Elephanta Caves, or Udayagiri Caves; prompt on Hindu temples, mandir, Buddhist monasteries, monastery, stupas, or hermitages by asking "built in what sort of location?"]):
    Name these places where early medieval monks engraved copper-plate grants. These places included Udayagiri, Ellora, and a site where Xuanzang ("shwen-zahng") viewed Vakataka ("vah-KAH-tuh-kuh") viharas and chaityas ("CHATE-yuh's").
  Part 2 (ans: Rashtrakuta ("RASH-truh-KOO-tuh") dynasty [or Rashtrakutas or Rastrakutas]):
    The Kailasha ("kay-LAH-shuh") temple carved by this Deccan dynasty in the Ellora Caves may be the world's largest monolith. This dynasty from Manyakheta ("mun-yuh-KAY-tuh") contested Kannauj ("KUN-nawj") with the Palas and Gurjara-Pratiharas after the death of Harsha.
  Part 3 (ans: Jainism [or Jains or Jaina or Jain Dharma; accept Digambara]):
    Several Rashtrakuta carvings in the Ellora Caves reflect King Krishna I's patronage of this tradition, whose "sky-clad" school thrived in Malwa under the Rashtrakutas' Paramara vassals.

[B9] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The hamsa is a symbol consisting of one of these objects with an eye or inscription in the center, and is used to ward off the evil eye. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: hands):
    Name these objects. In another symbol, a wheel called the dharmachakra appears inside one of these things symbolizing ahimsa ("uh-HIM-sah").
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism):
    Ahimsa is a vow of nonviolence taken by members of this South Asian religion, which venerates a group of 24 tirthankaras ("teer-TUNG-kuh-ruhs").
  Part 3 (ans: aparigraha ("uh-puh-ree-GRUH-huh")):
    Ahimsa is the first of the five vows in Jainism. This other vow translates as "non-possession" and is intended to minimize material desire.

[B10] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: As an embryo, the founder of this religion was believed to have been transferred into the womb of Trishala ("thrih-shah-luh") by the commander of Indra's army. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism):
    Name this religion whose founder, Mahavira, was the last of the 24 Tirthankaras ("teer-thahnk-uh-rahz").
  Part 2 (ans: Svetambara ("shvay-thumb-uh-rah") Jains):
    The story of Mahavira's transfer to Trishala's womb as an embryo is a belief held by this "white clad" sect of Jainism.
  Part 3 (ans: Mallinatha ("mull-eeh-nah-thuh")):
    The Svetambaras believe this other Tirthankara, known as the "lord of jasmine," is a woman, which is in contrast with the Digambaras ("thih-gum-buh-rahs") who believe that all the Tirthankaras were men.

[B11] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The Padma Purana describes the purifying properties of this plant, whose worship during the month of Kartik includes its ritual marriage to Nepalese ammonite fossils called shaligram in the "Vivah" ceremony. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tulsi [or holy basil, sacred basil, hairy basil, tulasi, thulasi, kaphrao, gaprow, haripriya, or bhutagni; or vrinda, vrnda, Vrindavan, Vrndavana, Brindaban, or Nidhivan; or Ocimum tenuiflorum or Ocimum sanctum; accept Tulsi Vivah, Tulasi Vivah, Tulasi Kalyanam, or Tulasi Maduve; prompt on basil or basilicum or Ocimum; reject "Thai basil," "sweet basil," "anise basil," "lemon basil," "Lao basil," "hoary basil," or "horapha"]):
    Name this plant that represents an avatar of Lakshmi. The courtyards of many Hindu homes contain this plant, whose groves name a Vaishnava pilgrimage center in Braj near Krishna's Govardhan Hill.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [or Jains or Jaina or Jain Dharma]):
    An acharya named Tulsi founded the Anuvrat movement to universalize this religion's lesser vows after he led a peace campaign during World War II, in keeping with this religion's emphasis on nonviolence, or ahimsa.
  Part 3 (ans: jiva [accept sansari jiva or siddha jiva]):
    Jains group plants among the ekendriya, an embodied, one-sensed class of these beings. This term refers to a soul similar to the atman possessed by conscious beings, including forms of water and air.

[B12] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This religious action includes both an external and an internal component, the latter of which refers to minimization of the passions. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: fasting [or descriptions of not eating or abstaining from food or equivalents; accept starvation or word forms like starve]):
    Sallekhana ("suh-LAY-kuh-nah") is what general type of action? Practitioners also engage in a less intensive variety of this practice in the leadup to Paryushana ("pur-YOO-shuh-nuh").
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [or Jains]):
    Paryushana is a major holiday for this religion that has a "white-clad" subdivision and practices ahimsa, or nonviolence.
  Part 3 (ans: Digambara ("dig-UM-buh-ruh")):
    Sallekhana, or fasting until death, was revived in the 20th century by monks of this Jain sect. This "sky-clad" division of Jainism, which is often contrasted with Svetambara ("shweh-TAHM-buh-ruh"), holds that women cannot attain moksha.

[B13] 2022 ACF Nationals (2022) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: Answer the following about a set of sacred texts known as agamas ("AH-guh-muzz") or agam literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism [or Jain dharma]):
    Though various Tantric traditions also have agamas, this religion uses the term to denote orally-transmitted teachings of its founder Mahavira.
  Part 2 (ans: Chandragupta Maurya ("CHAN-druh-GOOP-tuh MAWR-yuh") [prompt on partial answer; accept answers indicating emperor Chandragupta of the Mauryan dynasty]):
    Svetambara ("sh'weh-TUM-buh-ruh") and Digambara ("dee-GUM-buh-ruh") Jains disagree over whether the original agamas were completely lost in a famine after this figure's conquests. In Jain tradition, this figure starved himself to death in a cave in Karnataka ("kur-NAH-tuh-kuh").
  Part 3 (ans: sravaka ("sh'RAH-vuh-kuh") or sravika ("sh'RAH-vih-KAH") [or savaka or savika; or Savaga, or Sarawagi, or Saraogi; prompt on householders]):
    The Upasaka Dashanga ("ooh-PAH-suh-kuh duh-SHANG-guh") Sutra, a Svetambara agama, governs the Jain laity and calls them by [emphasize] this term, which first described lay followers of Mahavira. In Theravada Buddhist tradition, this term names the generation following the first sangha("SUNG-guh").

[B14] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Philosophy
     Leadin: According to the realist Vaisheshika (vye-SHEH-shee-kuh) school codified by Kanada (kuh-NAH-duh), these entities must exist because otherwise, one could rearrange a mustard seed to create the Himalaya mountains. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: atoms [or paramanu (purr-MAH-noo)]):
    Name these discrete, indivisible particles whose existence was independently postulated by Democritus.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [accept sects like Digambara Jainism or Svetambara Jainism]):
    The Vaisheshikas and Ajivikas (uh-JEE-vee-kahs) shared their atomism with this other Indian tradition, whose epistemology emphasized anekantavada (uh-neh-KAHNT-vahd), or non-onesidedness. Umasvati (oo-MAH-swa-tee) was a major scholar of this school.
  Part 3 (ans: syllogism):
    The Nyaya and Vaisheshika schools developed a "five-membered" version of this kind of logical argument, whose three "figures" Aristotle describes in his Prior Analytics.

[B15] 2021 ARCADIA (2021) | Diff: 7 | Philosophy
     Leadin: Answer the following about many-valued logical systems and ancient thought, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Nagarjuna):
    This philosopher extensively employed catuskoti ("CHUH-toosh-koh-tee") argumentation, in which a proposition can be true, false, neither true nor false, or both true and false. He used it to argue the doctrine that everything is empty, or sunyata.
  Part 2 (ans: vagueness):
    Fuzzy logics, in which truth values can take any real value from 0 to 1, are often used to model predicates with this property. This concept is demonstrated by the sorites paradox, which asks at what point a shrinking heap of sand is no longer a heap.
  Part 3 (ans: Jainism):
    Ancient philosophers of this religion developed a seven-valued logic where each predicate is some combination of true, false, and inexpressible. Adherents of this Indian religion practice ahimsa, or nonviolence.

[B16] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: This term can refer to the passages across samsara first trod by a group of spiritual leaders whose name refers to their creation of these passages. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: tirtha [or ford or crossing-place; accept tirthankara]):
    Name these places. Physical locations called by this name refer to holy places where "makers" of them achieved moksha. Either the original-language term or a translation is fine.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [or Jains; or Jain Dharma]):
    In this religion, pilgrimages to tirthas can be replaced with studying tirth pat maps. Mahavira was the 24th tirthankara of this religion.
  Part 3 (ans: Rishabha [or Rishabha Dev; or Rishabhanatha; or Rushabhdev or Adinatha; or Adishvara; or Yugadeva; or Prathamaraja; or Nabheya]):
    One of Jainism's five most sacred tirthas is Palitana, which is dedicated to this first tirthankara. This father of Bahubali and Bharata visited Palitana 99 times during his life, inspiring many pilgrims to do the same.

[B17] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Violations of the vow described by this Sanskrit term include using short weights or measures and intentionally buying something at too low a price. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: asteya):
    Name this Sanskrit term. Meaning 'not-stealing', it is distinct from the vow of aparigraha, which enjoins people to refrain from possessiveness.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [accept word forms]):
    Asteya is, along with ahimsa, one of the five vows taken by adherents of this ascetic Indian religion, which has white-clad and sky-clad groups of monks.
  Part 3 (ans: Three Jewels [or Ratnatraya]):
    The five main vows, plus seven optional ones, are part of right conduct, which, along with right faith and right knowledge, make up this group of ways to attain moksha.

[B18] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: In ancient Vedic literature, this term implies extraordinary power and wisdom, but it is later used to connote illusions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Maya):
    Along with Mithyatva and Nidana, this is one of three causes of failure to reach Samyaktva. While Mithyatva refers to an individual's attitude to knowledge, this term refers to a source of wrong information.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism):
    Maya, as referring to deceit, is considered as one of four Kasaya or faults in the philosophy of this Indian religion, along with anger, pride, and greed. Followers of this religion celebrate the birth of the last Tirthankara on Mahavir Janma Kalyanak.
  Part 3 (ans: five [or 5]):
    Svetambara Jains recognize this number of false beliefs under Mithyatva, while Digambara Jains recognize seven. Devout Jains take this number of main vows, which include ahimsa and satya.

[B19] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: This figure was supposedly born as a lion, a deva, and as a denizen of hell, before his final birth in his most notable form. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mahavira [or Mahavir; or Vardhamana]):
    Name this figure. At the age of 72, this figure attained kevalajnana (kay-vula-nya-nuh) under the asalah tree as the 24th "fordmaker."
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism):
    Mahavira was the most recent Tirthankara, the semi-mythical leaders of this religion. Members of this faith often wear masks over their mouths and sweep in front of their feet to avoid harming small creatures in accordance with the doctrine of ahimsa.
  Part 3 (ans: Indra):
    This figure is represented in the first auspicious dream as a white elephant, signifying his role as a guardian deity. This Vedic god legendarily controls the Panch Kalaya, and in many stories he serves as the teachers of the Tirthankaras.

[B20] 2019 PIANO (2019) | Diff: 9 | Religion
     Leadin: Adherents of this religion venerate the pancha-parameshthi , including siddhas and arihants, in the Navakara Mantra, this religion's most important prayer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism):
    Name this Indian religion whose adherents also praise the most recent 24 tirthankaras in the Logassa Sutra.
  Part 2 (ans: pratikraman a):
    Those prayers are among the many sutras Jains recite during this ritual of asking for forgiveness, which Jains may repeat as often as twice a day or as little as once a year, during Paryushan. Jains say "micchami dukkadam" to ask forgiveness during this ritual.
  Part 3 (ans: bowing [or prostration]):
    The word namo in the Navakara Mantra refers to this action, which Jains perform while reciting the Khamasamana Sutra. In each rak'ah of Islamic prayer, two forms of this action are performed after reciting two suras.

[B21] 2019 Oxford Open (2019) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: In 2015, the Indian Supreme Court overturned a ban on a form of this practice which had been instituted in Rajasthan, accepting the argument made by its practitioners that it was not suicide. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: fasting to death):
    Name this ascetic practice, which has a fatal form known as Sallekhana, supposedly undergone by Chandragupta Maurya, which in its Padapopagamana form requires those who undertake it to stand 'like a tree' until it is over.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism):
    Sallekhana is a supplementary vow in this religion, whose monks practise ahimsa to the extent of sweeping their path so not to tread on insects, and whose followers seek to achieve complete self-discipline to become liberated from the world.
  Part 3 (ans: Mallinath (a)):
    The Digambara and Svetambara sects of Jainism divided on whether women can achieve liberation without being reincarnated as male, which rests on whether this nineteenth tirthankara was male or female.

[B22] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Twenty-four of these people appear during each half of the cosmological cycle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tirthankaras (teer-thun-kuh-ruhs)):
    Give this title for major spiritual teachers and savior-figures. They are named for the Sanskrit word for "ford-makers" because they have created a passage through samsara, the cycle of suffering and rebirths.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [or Jain dharma]):
    Tirthankaras are revered in this Indian religion, which practices a code of nonviolence called ahimsa and has sects called "sky-clad" and "white-clad" according to their ascetics' outfits.
  Part 3 (ans: Tattvartha Sutra [or Tattvarth-adhigama-sutra]):
    This scripture by Umaswati (oo-MAH-swah-TEE) is the only text authoritative to both Digambara (DEE-gum-burr) and Svetambara (SHVET-um-burr) Jains. It contains the Jain aphorism "Souls render service to one another."

[B23] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The first of these figures, Rishabhanatha, is said to have lived for nearly 600 quintillion years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tirthankaras):
    Name these venerated figures, the most recent of which was Mahavira. Their name literally means 'ford-makers', and the followers of the religion Mahavira historically founded in reaching enlightenment.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism [or the Jain Dharma]):
    Tirthankaras are central figures in this nonviolent Indian religion, originally one of the Sramana movements along with Buddhism. It is divided into the nudist Digambara sect and the white-clad Svetambara sect.
  Part 3 (ans: 24):
    Jains believe that the current cosmic half-cycle has this many tirthankaras. Champat Rai Jain argued that the tirthankaras are the same as the "elders" mentioned in Revelation 4:4, of which there are also this number.

[B24] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: Lay adherents of this religion are known as sravaka. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism [accept answers mentioning forms of the word Jain]):
    Name this religion whose lay members take five compulsory vows called vratas, which include a vow of truth called satya and a vow of sexual restraint called brahmacharya (brah-muh-CHAR-yuh).
  Part 2 (ans: aras [do not accept or prompt on "era (s)"]):
    Jains believe that time is split into six time periods known by this name, with the current one being called duhsama. In Jain cosmology, human height and life span get progressively shorter as these periods progress.
  Part 3 (ans: ahimsa):
    Like Hindus and Buddhists, Jains follow this principle of nonviolence. It is the foremost of the Five Great Vows.

[B25] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: When Parvati wished to end her loneliness, the Kalpavriksha (kahl-PAHV-rik-shah), a divine object of this type, granted her a daughter, Ashokasundari. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: trees [accept divine tree or bael tree; prompt on "plants" or similar answers]):
    What kind of object is the Kalpavriksha? Hindus consider the bael ("bale"), a variety of this object, sacred to Shiva.
  Part 2 (ans: Tirthankaras (of Jainism) (teer-THAHN-kah-rah) [prompt on "Ford-Makers" or "Teaching Gods" or "Crossing Makers" or "Makers of the River-Crossing"]):
    While meditating under a banyan tree, Lord Rishabha (ree-SHAHB-hah), the first of these holy figures, attained a form of absolute knowledge known as Kevala jnana (keh-VAH-lah NYAH-nah).
  Part 3 (ans: Gautama Buddha [accept either underlined portion; accept Siddhartha Gautama or Shakyamuni]):
    This Indian ascetic attained enlightenment while meditating under the Bodhi ("BODE"-hee) Tree, which became a major pilgrimage site in his namesake religion.

[B26] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: The first of these lived for roughly 600,000 quintillion years and is called Rishabha. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Tirthankara):
    Name these 24 religious figures who aid in the achievement of enlightenment.
  Part 2 (ans: Jainism):
    The Tirthankara are central to this Indian religion that is split into the Digambara and Svetambara sects.
  Part 3 (ans: Mahavira):
    This is the last Tirthankara. He lived during the 6th century BCE and is the founder of the contemporary cycle of Jainism. According to some traditions he is married to Yashoda, with whom he had a daughter

[B27] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: This religion's temples are largely unpainted among the Digambara sect, though the Svetambara sect often includes brightly-painted statues of great teachers called tirthankaras in its temples. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism [or Jain dharma; or Jains]):
    Name this Indian religion promoted by Mahavira. Its vow of ahimsa, or strict non-violence, leads many adherents to vegetarianism.
  Part 2 (ans: an elephant):
    For Jains, a parable about this animal illustrates the principle of anekantavada, or multiple correct viewpoints. Different blind men perceive it as a pillar, a hand fan, or a throne in the version told by Rumi.
  Part 3 (ans: jiva [or jivatma]):
    In Jainism, this thing, the soul of a conscious living being, has karma attach to it in the form of small particles. Five types of this thing are distinguished by the number of senses the constituent organism has.

[B28] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Religion
     Leadin: Answer some questions about an Indian religion, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism):
    Followers of this religion worship twenty-four tirthankaras, the last two of which were Parshva and Mahavira.
  Part 2 (ans: ahimsa):
    This principle of nonviolence in Jainism is also followed by Buddhists and Hindus. It applies to all living organisms.
  Part 3 (ans: navatattva):
    Jain metaphysics recognizes nine of these fundamental principles, including jiva, which refers to the souls of living beings, and ajiva, which refers to non-living things.

[B29] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Religion
     Leadin: After a famine that caused a brief geographic divide in this religious community, a schism emerged about the appropriateness of wearing white robes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jainism):
    Name this Indian religion with "sky-clad" and "white-clad" sects, whose adherents sometimes sweep the ground in front of them as they walk in order to avoid killing insects and causing harm to living beings.
  Part 2 (ans: Five Great Vows [or Five Vows; or Maha-vratas; prompt on "vows"]):
    Hardcore Jains must follow this set of tenets, which include the aforementioned ahimsa and brahmacharya, or chastity.
  Part 3 (ans: mantras):
    Jains recite the "Namokar" variety of these sounds, syllables, words, and phrases that often repeat the name of God and/or are used during prayer services.
