=== STOCK CLUES: Robert Delaunay ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 11 found, 33 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Delaunay [accept Robert Delaunay or Sonia Delaunay; accept Sonia Terk or Sarah Stern until "geisha" is read, but prompt afterwards]
  - An artist with this surname created numerous sketches of clothing featuring text by Vicente Huidobro and Tristan Tzara called "dress-poems." That artist with this surname placed a rainbow on the waist of a costume for the title role of Diaghilev's ballet Cleopatre.
  - Another artist with this surname depicted a geisha in the background of his portrait of Jean Metzinger called Man with a Tulip.
  - An artist with this surname purposely published enough copies of her long-format illustration of a Blaise Cendrars poem that they could be stacked to reach the height of a certain building; that artist, who was born as Sarah Stern, launched a boutique selling "simultanist" clothing.
  - Two artists with this surname founded a movement with Frantisek Kupka which included a series of paintings centered on a red version of the Eiffel Tower.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of Robert and Sonia, the married founders of Orphism. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Robert Delaunay
  - This artist, one of the original members of Section d'Or, used motifs of propellers and wing fuselages in his homage to aviation pioneer Louis Bleriot.
  - Later in his career, this artist executed a series of Runners including The Cardiff Team.
  - Erwin von Busse wrote about this artist for the Blue Rider Almanac, a book that included a print of one of this artist's works inspired by light streaming through the stained-glass windows at Saint Severin.
  - This painter was a devotee of the color theory of Eugene Chevreul, the chemist whose work led to the invention of margarine, and used the term "simultanism" to describe the use of color in his works such as Simultaneous Contrasts: Sun and Moon.
  - Guillaume Apollinaire noted the musical quality of this painter's multicolored discs and coined a term to describe this artist's work.
  - Simultaneous Windows on the City is by, for 10 points, what artist of cubist paintings of the Eiffel Tower, an Orphist who married an artist named Sonia? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Smoke from industrial factories in Clichy can be seen in the background of one painting of this location. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isle of La Grande Jatte [or Island of La Grand Jatte; or Ile de la Jatte; or Ile de la Grande Jatte]):
    Name this location where a woman holds a monkey on a leash in another painting showing "Sunday Afternoon" on this location.
  Part 2 (ans: Albert Gleizes ("glez")):
    The Bathers was among five depictions of La Grand Jatte by this artist. This artist reproduced The Bathers for his manifesto Du Cubisme, written alongside Jean Metzinger ("met-san-ZHAY").
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    Gleizes paid homage to Seurat again in Harvest Threshing, the largest Cubist painting along with this artist's La Ville de Paris. This artist and his wife Sofia co-founded Orphism.

[B2] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Otherworldly vegetation sprouts from leaf-like appendages representing wings in this artist's painting Garden Airplane-Trap. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Ernst [or Maximilian Maria Ernst] (The unnamed artwork is Two Children Are Threatened by a Nightingale.)):
    Name this artist, who in a collage depicted two soldiers carrying a wounded comrade away from an airplane with human arms. Another of this artist's works blending painting with collage includes a gate attached to its frame next to a girl brandishing a knife at a bird.
  Part 2 (ans: Italian Futurism [or Futurismo]):
    The Aeropittura movement, which concentrated on representations of planes and aerial landscapes, was a late offshoot of this earlier artistic movement whose members included Giacomo Balla and Filippo Marinetti.
  Part 3 (ans: Delaunay [accept Robert Delaunay; accept Sonia Delaunay; accept Sonia Terk; accept Sarah Elievna Stern]):
    A Ferris wheel appears in the background of a "disc painting" by an artist with this surname titled Sun, Tower, Airplane. Another artist with this surname designed the set for Tristan Tzara's 1923 production of The Gas Heart.

[B3] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several artists had the last name "Delaunay." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jules-Elie Delaunay):
    This academic painter painted a youth with red hair handling a sword in David Triumphant and a woman in a pink dress in Sappho Kissing her Lyre.
  Part 2 (ans: Sonia Delaunay):
    This co-founder of Orphism illustrated Blaise Cendrars' Prose of the Trans-Siberian and of Little Jehanne of France. Semicircles and arches of varying colors appear in this artist's work, Coccinelle.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    This artist, husband of Sonia Delaunay, supposedly punched Georges Rouault at the Salon d'Automne after the latter stepped over his paintings. His experiments in divisionism are seen in paintings like Paysage au disque.

[B4] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The top of this diagram's final version included the names of six artists and the headings "Japanese Prints," "Synthetism," and "Neo-Impressionism." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alfred Barr's diagram [or Alfred Hamilton Barr Jr.'s diagram; accept the cover of the catalog for Cubism and Abstract Art]):
    Identify this 1936 diagram that traces the history of modern art from 1890 to 1925. It was created by, and is typically named for, the first director of the MoMA ("MO-muh").
  Part 2 (ans: Orphism [or Orphic Cubism] (The second artist is Robert Delaunay.)):
    Barr's diagram does not include submovements of Cubism, but does mention this related movement that began in Paris in 1912. This movement included Frantisek Kupka ("FRON-tsih-sheck KOOP-kah") and an artist who painted several red versions of the Eiffel Tower.
  Part 3 (ans: Russia [or Rossiya; or Russian Empire or Rossiyskaya Imperiya]):
    Arrows coming from Cubism in Barr's diagram point to both Suprematism and Constructivism, two abstract art movements that originated around 1912 in this country and continued in its successor state.

[B5] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A photograph of this artist depicts her wearing one of her "dress-poems," or dresses embroidered with avant-garde poems, in front of a "door-poem" in her apartment. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sonia Delaunay [or Sonia Terk or Sarah Elievna Shtern; accept Robert Delaunay]):
    Name this fashion designer who applied the theory of simultaneisme, or using simultaneous contrasting colors, to her clothes.
  Part 2 (ans: ballerinas [or ballet dancers; prompt on dancers]):
    A Delaunay design for this profession uses concentric circles and zig-zags to emphasize the wearer's movements in a production of Cleopatra. That design eschews conventions of this profession's fashion, such as tutus.
  Part 3 (ans: hearts [accept The Gas Heart or Le Cœur a gaz]):
    Actors in a play titled for one of these objects could not escape a riot due to wearing Delaunay's cardboard trapezoid costumes. One of these objects is exposed on each of The Two Fridas in a Frida Kahlo self-portrait.

[B6] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some artists who depicted airplanes in their paintings, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Roy Lichtenstein [or Roy Fox Lichtenstein]):
    This artist used Ben-Day dots in his painting of two airplanes in a dogfight, titled Whaam! In his Drowning Girl, a woman says "I don't care! I'd rather sink than call Brad for help!"
  Part 2 (ans: Max Ernst):
    A collage by this artist shows the title Murdering Airplane with human arms. This Surrealist created and frequently employed the grattage technique, in which paint is scraped off the canvas.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    Several airplanes appear in a background of colorful circles in this artist's homage to English Channel-crosser Louis Bleriot. That painting is one of many by this artist to include the Eiffel Tower rendered in red.

[B7] 2016 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man abstracted the two titled celestial objects in his circular framed piece Simultaneous Contrasts: Sun and Moon. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    Name this artist who depicted a red Eiffel Tower in his Champs de Mars. This one-time member of Der Blaue Reiter later cofounded a movement with his wife
  Part 2 (ans: Orphism):
    Robert and Sonia Delaunay, as well as Frantisek Kupka, belonged to this mythologically named movement. Similar to Fauvism, this movement's use of bright colors can largely be attributed to the dye chemist Michel Eugene Chevreul.
  Part 3 (ans: Cubism):
    Orphism was an offshoot of this movement that Delaunay broke with due to its treatment of color. Georges Braques and Pablo Picasso led this art movement, which was fond of angular shapes.

[B8] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This painter created a series of seven paintings depicting the interplay of light and space in the Gothic church of Saint-Severin. For 10 points:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Delaunay [or Robert-Victor-Felix Delaunay]):
    Name this man who exhibited at the Herbst Salon paintings from a new movement he co-founded with his wife Sonia Terk.
  Part 2 (ans: Orphism [or word forms, such as Orphist]):
    Delaunay and Terk created this colorful offshoot of Cubism, which was given its mythological name by the poet Guillaume Apollinaire.
  Part 3 (ans: Eiffel Tower [or La tour Eiffel]):
    Delaunay's Champ des Mars fancifully depicts this monument in red. This iron lattice tower was originally built as the entrance arch for the 1889 World's Fair.

[B9] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist's best-known sculpture was cast in bronze by his brothers after his death. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Raymond Duchamp-Villon [prompt on "Duchamp"]):
    Name this French artist of the sculpture Horse who also created a study of a facade for a proposed Maison Cubiste for the 1906 Salon d'Automne.
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Baudelaire):
    Duchamp-Villon's terracotta bust of this French poet, featuring an enlarged, bald pate, is thought to be a retort to a bust of him executed by Rodin, who also created an illustrated version of this poet's best-known collection. As an art critic, this man wrote "The Painter of Modern Life."
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    The Duchamp brothers formed the core of the Section d'Or, which brought together many of the leading cubist painters, such as this artist of Simultaneous Contrasts and Simultaneous Windows on the City.

[B10] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Together with Blaise Cendrars, this man's wife would write the seminal artists' book Prose of the Trans-Siberian and of Little Jehanne of France. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    Name this husband of Sonia whose series of paintings include the Cardiff Team and Circular Forms.
  Part 2 (ans: Cubism [accept Analytic Cubism]):
    Delaunay's artwork was termed Orphism, which itself was an offshoot of this deconstructivist movement whose practitioners included Picasso and Braque.
  Part 3 (ans: Fernand Leger):
    Louis Vauxcelles coined the term Tubism to insult the bizarre work of this French cubist. His paintings include Romantic Landscape and The City.

[B11] 2013 Chicago Open (2013) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two airplanes appear in the sky above a bunch of colored disks in a painting this man dedicated to an aviator, Homage to Bleriot. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    Name this 20th-century French artist of a series depicting the Eiffel Tower, who founded a movement alongside his wife Sonia Terk.
  Part 2 (ans: Orphism [or Orphic Cubism]):
    Delaunay helped found this school of Cubist art, whose name was coined by Guillaume Apollinaire in reference to a mythological musician.
  Part 3 (ans: Natalia Sergeevna Goncharova):
    Another offshoot of Cubism was developed by this Russian woman, whose paintings Aeroplane over Train and The Cyclist exemplify her style of "Cubo-Futurism."
