=== STOCK CLUES: School of Athens ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 11 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Answer: Academy [or Platonic Academy; or Akademia; accept New Academy or Third Academy or Old Academy; accept academic skepticism or Against the Academicians or Academica; prompt on the School of Athens until "Athens" is read] (The first sentence refers to Cicero's Academica.)
  - A treatise named for this place preserves an argument based on the "indiscriminability" of pairs of eggs, as well as the "inactivity objection" that faced a position named for this place.
  - A leader of this place opposed ideas of "natural justice" since a shipwrecked sailor would be a fool to not kill a weaker man clinging to a plank of wood.
  - Augustine's first work is a dialogue "against" a tradition named for this place that promoted reliance on pithanon, or the "probable," in the face of acatalepsia.
  - Due to scholarchs like Arcesilaus  and Carneades, this place names the more extreme of the two main traditions of ancient skepticism.
  - Justinian closed this place, to which a plucked chicken was once brought to ridicule a definition of man as a "featherless biped." For 10 points, name this school in a grove outside Athens that was founded by Plato. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The School of Athens
  - Mazzola created a 3D CGI reconstruction of this painting in order to propose that people within it are standing in a certain shape, which, according to Fichtner, encodes a secret theorem. [PWR]
  - That shape, a six-pointed star, is drawn by a man who likely helped the artist with most of the architecture in this painting. [PWR]
  - A tondo above this painting reads causarum cognitio, and it is grouped with three others that depict the (*) arts, theology, and law. [PWR]
  - A self-portrait of the artist hidden in this work places him behind some men with globes.
  - One of the central figures in this painting, which is placed across from La Disputa, extends his hand towards the viewer, while the other points up.
  - For 10 points, name this fresco in the Stanza della Segnatura that features many philosophers and intellectuals including Plato and Aristotle, a work by Raphael. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The story from Vasari's Lives of the Artist in which Giotto draws a perfect circle for the pope was likely inspired by Pliny the Elder's anecdote in which this painter impressed Protogenes with a single fine line. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Apelles of Kos [accept The Calumny of Apelles]):
    Name this Ancient Greek painter of Aphrodite Anadyomene ("an-uh-dy-OM-uh-nee"). Botticelli painted a "Calumny" modeled on a lost work by this painter from Kos.
  Part 2 (ans: Leon Battista Alberti):
    A challenge posed by this author led many Renaissance artists to create versions of The Calumny of Apelles. This author devised geometric ideas on perspective in De pictura and built on Vitruvius in On the Art of Building.
  Part 3 (ans: The School of Athens [or Scuola di Atene]):
    Apelles may have been the model for Raphael's depiction of himself in this painting, in which he stands next to a man modeled on Protogenes. Plato points toward the sky in this painting.

[B2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Joseph Kosuth ("koh-SOOT") asserted that "art only exists conceptually" in a tract titled Art After [this field]. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: philosophy [accept analytic philosophy or Greek philosophy] (The painting is The School of Athens by Raphael.)):
    The conceptual artist Adrian Piper has also worked as a tenured professor in what field? In a 16th-century painting, two practitioners of this field respectively gesture at the sky and the ground.
  Part 2 (ans: cards [accept calling cards, business cards, postcards, Christmas cards, or My Calling (Card) #1 or My Calling (Card) #2]):
    Piper's art on the experience of passing includes a piece in which she gave these objects to people who made racist remarks. Though it later became a stamp design, Robert Indiana first put his LOVE image on these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Duchamp ("du-SHOM") [or Henri-Robert-Marcel Duchamp]):
     Art After Philosophy traces the birth of conceptual art to the "readymades" of this artist, who signed a urinal "R. Mutt" and called it Fountain.

[B3] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This figure's red cloak is sometimes interpreted as symbolizing fire, in contrast to the bright blue cloak of the man to his right. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Plato [or Platon]):
    Name this figure who is modeled on Leonardo da Vinci in a Renaissance painting in which he holds a book in his left hand and points into the air with his right.
  Part 2 (ans:  The School of Athens [or La scuola d'Atene]):
    That depiction of Plato is from this painting, whose artist, Raphael, flattered himself by giving his own features to its depiction of the master artist Apelles.
  Part 3 (ans: Donato Bramante [or Bramante Lazzari] (The latter building is the Tempietto.)):
    Vasari suggests that this artist was the model for Euclid in The School of Athens. This artist designed the Palazzo Caprini ("pah-LOTS-oh ka-PREE-nee") where Raphael once lived, as well as a small, circular chapel commissioned by Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Anton Raphael Mengs created a copy of this painting for the Duke of Northumberland, though Mengs titled his copy Philosophy. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The School of Athens):
    Name this Raphael fresco in which Leonardo da Vinci appears as Plato pointing a finger into the air.
  Part 2 (ans: Johann Joachim Winckelmann):
    Mengs tricked this scholar into believing his fresco Jupiter and Ganymede was from ancient Rome to mock his theories. This German "father of archaeology"'s The History of Art in Antiquity was one of the first examinations of ancient art.
  Part 3 (ans: Mary Magdalene [or The Penitent Magdalene; prompt on Mary]):
    A Mengs painting depicts this woman staring at a cross carved out of a branch. This woman, who sits with a skull in her lap and stares at a candle flickering in a mirror in a Georges de la Tour painting, appears emaciated in a 1453 sculpture made of white poplar.

[B5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Many Northern Renaissance artists, including Baldung and Cranach the Elder, painted depictions of a myth in which a whip-brandishing woman named Phyllis rides this man like a horse. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aristotle [or Aristoteles] (The Dutch painting is Rembrandt's Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer.)):
    Name this man. Julius Held cited other depictions of this man in expensive jewelry to argue that a Rembrandt painting of a man with a gold chain depicts him rather than, as Simon Schama claimed, Apelles.
  Part 2 (ans: the "Power of Women" [or the Weibermacht; accept the battle for the trousers or the follies of love; prompt on descriptive answers like strong women or women overcoming men]):
    Depictions of Phyllis riding Aristotle were examples of this topos popular in Northern Renaissance art. This motif is also exemplified by paintings of Virgil in his basket and Judith with the head of Holofernes.
  Part 3 (ans: The School of Athens [or Scuola di Atene]):
    Aristotle, gesturing toward the ground, converses with his teacher, Plato, who points up at the sky, in this Raphael fresco depicting many ancient Greek mathematicians and philosophers.

[B6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Philosophy
     Leadin: While in Athens, this thinker produced the first Latin translations of Pseudo-Dionysius. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: John Scotus Eriugena [or Joannes Scottigena; prompt on Scotus; do not accept or prompt on "(John) Duns Scotus"]):
    Name this 9th-century Irish philosopher who defined god as universitas rerum, or the totality of things, in his magnum opus Periphyseon, or On the Division of Things.
  Part 2 (ans: Neoplatonism [prompt on "platonism"]):
    Eriugena was heavily inspired by this philosophical tradition, which began with Plotinus and held that reality was the emanation of a single principle called "the One."
  Part 3 (ans: Justinian I closing the Platonic Academy [accept the School of Athens in place of "the Platonic Academy"; accept any answer mentioning the Academy or School of Athens and the idea of shutting it down]):
    Eriugena's translations helped revive Neoplatonic thought several hundred years after this historical event, which scholars typically use to mark the end of Neoplatonism. Following this event, Damascius and his followers fled to the court of Khosrau.

[B7] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of these works done on fruitwood is named for the flowers held up by a baby boy in the center, and not on the hue in the mother's cheeks. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Madonnas by Raphael):
    Name these paintings by a specific artist, one "of the Pinks." That artist also painted versions of those paintings "of the Meadow" and ones named for Sistine and Ansidei.
  Part 2 (ans: School of Athens [accept Scuola di Atene]):
    Raphael may be best known for this monumental fresco located in the Vatican's Stanza della Segnatura [sen-yah-TOO-rah] that shows Plato and Aristotle at the center of a gathering of intellectuals.
  Part 3 (ans: House of Gonzaga):
    Raphael also painted a stern-looking portrait of Elisabetta, a patron of his from this Mantuan royal family. Andrea Mantegna [mon-TANE-yah] painted a group of red-hatted members of this family holding court under its Ludovico II.

[B8] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name some Raphael paintings, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: The School of Athens [or:Scuola di Atene]):
    This painting sits across from La Disputa in the Stanza della Segnatura. It shows a bunch of Greek philosophers lounging around.
  Part 2 (ans: The Parnassus [or:IlParnaso]):
    The Stanza della Segnatura also houses this painting, in which Apollo plays a violin and is surrounded by the Muses, nine ancient poets, and nine contemporary poets. It shares its name with a fresco by Anton Raphael Mengs.
  Part 3 (ans: Mond Crucifixion [or:Crocifissione Gavari, Gavari Crucifixion, Crucifixion with the Virgin, Saints and Angels]):
    This Perugino-esque painting has the sun and moon flanking the letters I.N.R.I. St. Jerome kneels at the bottom of this painting, which also shows two angels collecting Jesus's blood in chalices.
