=== STOCK CLUES: Great Zimbabwe ===
Tossup questions: 7 found, 41 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 15 found, 45 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2026 ARCADIA (2026) | Diff: 7 | History
     Answer: Great Zimbabwe [or Kingdom of Great Zimbabwe; prompt on Zimbabwe]
  - Recent research indicates that people at this site used dhaka pits to store massive amounts of water. [PWR]
  - One structure within this site was believed to house spirit mediums who would channel svikiro and mhondoro ancestor spirits. [PWR]
  - A 5.5-meter-tall Conical Tower was constructed between two walls at this site. [PWR]
  - One legend states that the (*) Mutapa empire was founded by people who left this place seeking salt to trade.
  - This site featured an "elliptical temple" now called the Great Enclosure.
  - Certain artifacts found at this site, which was built by the ancestors of the Shona, inspired a national symbol depicted on Rhodesian currency.
  - For 10 points, name this site where iconic soapstone birds were found, which shares its name with a country whose capital is Harare. [GIVE]

[T2] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Zimbabwe [or Republic of Zimbabwe; accept Great Zimbabwe; accept Kingdom of Zimbabwe; accept Zimbabwe Pattern]
  - In 2022, researchers showed that a city in this modern-day country used dhaka pits to store water.
  - A "pattern" named for this modern-day country was distinguished from the "central cattle pattern" by Thomas Huffman, who also investigated the "tradition" of this modern-day country's site of Leopard's Kopje .
  - The Torwa dynasty ruled a gold-trading kingdom once located in this modern-day country centered at Khami.
  - Many daga buildings were found in the "Valley Ruins" of a city in this modern-day country where a conical tower was located in its "Great Enclosure." A city in this modern-day country contained the "Hill Complex," the hypothesized original location of eight soapstone birds.
  - For 10 points, what modern-day country contains the site of a "Great" African city founded by the Shona people? [GIVE]

[T3] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | History
     Answer: Great Zimbabwe (The "sleeping cow" is Ingombe Ilede.)
  - Eugenia Herbert noted that copper ingots at this city were simpler than the "St.
  - Andrew's crosses" at the nearby "sleeping cow." Richard Hall found phalluses near the Elliptical Temple at this city, whose architecture influenced the Torwa Dynasty's capital at Khami.
  - David Randall-MacIver  first suggested a medieval dating of this city, which contains a temple at the Hill Complex and a royal compound in the Great Enclosure.
  - The Kilwa Sultanate received gold from this city, which Karl Mauch  linked to the Queen of Sheba and the biblical land of Ophir.
  - This predecessor of Mutapa inspired the flag of its namesake country with its iconic soapstone bird carvings.
  - For 10 points, the racist leaders of Rhodesia denied that the Shona built what "Great" drystone city south of Harare? [GIVE]

[T4] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Great Zimbabwe [prompt on partial answer]
  - A beam in this city is decorated with a motif of small circles inside excised diamonds that references the pattern of a nearby chikuva.Peter Garlake's taxonomy of a set of objects from this city places them into different groups depending on whether they depict their subjects with straight or squatting legs. [PWR]
  - According to one interpretation, those objects from this city are depictions of the shiri ye denga believed to use lightning to "stitch together heaven and earth." Thomas Huffman has argued that the double (*) chevron and the crocodile image that appear on an object from this city reflect its use for divining the presence of witches with the help of royal ancestors. [PWR]
  - In the 1880s, six sculptures that sit atop monoliths were moved from their original location in this city's Eastern Enclosure, which lies within its Hill Complex.
  - Willi Posselt hacked off the base of an artwork he found in this city and sold it to Cecil Rhodes.
  - A national emblem was inspired by the design of eight soapstone birds found in-for 10 points-what medieval African city? [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 CMST (2018) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Great Zimbabwe [do not accept or prompt on "Zimbabwe"]
  - The article "Where You Are the Girls Gather to Play" links dentelle, herringbone, chevron, and stripe decorations in this city to gendered symbols on a form of dice.
  - The author of that article, Thomas Huffman, has also argued that a structure in this city had a male western entrance and a female northern entrance and served as a girls' initiation school. [PWR]
  - David Randall-MacIver showed that walls in this city progressed from simpler to more complex styles rather than deteriorating over time. [PWR]
  - Numerous dwellings made of a mixture of mud and thatch called (*) daga are found in this city's Valley Complex. [PWR]
  - This city contains a thirty-foot tall Conical Tower and was equated with the biblical city of Ophir, which supplied gold to King Solomon, by the German explorer Karl Mauch .
  - A golden bird on a national flag alludes to a set of soapstone sculptures found at this city.
  - For 10 points, name this site of the Great Enclosure, a ruined stone city built by the Shona in its namesake African country. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Jakob (2017) | Diff: 9 | History
     Answer: Great Zimbabwe
  - The "elliptical temple" is located at this site. [PWR]
  - This site was taken over by the Rozwi Empire late in its history, and a polity ruled from this site was rocked by a civil war between (*) Changamire and Mutota. [PWR]
  - A soapstone bird excavated at this site is a symbol of its modern-day country, and this site was ruled by kings titled monomotapa.
  - Building at this site stopped in the 18th century, just before it came to the attention of Western archaeologists who thought it was the land of Ophir.
  - For ten points, name this site located near Harare, the namesake of a modern country. [GIVE]

[T7] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Geography
     Answer: Great Zimbabwe
  - The pioneering female anthropologist Gertrude Caton-Thompson was targeted with a lot of hostility for her assertions about this city. [PWR]
  - After the destruction of this city, the craftsmanship it pioneered moved to Khami to its south. [PWR]
  - The earliest written record of this city was made by Vicente Pegado, captain of the garrison at Sofala. [PWR]
  - Robert Gayre is the most prominent historian to claim that this city was built by a Jewish-descended group called the (*) Lemba. [PWR]
  - The "Conical Tower" at this site was constructed between the two walls of its "Great Enclosure." One of the eight soapstone bird carvings recovered from this site appears on the flag of a modern-day country.
  - For 10 points, name this Shona-constructed fortified city located in the hills of a namesake southern African country. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: A clay figurine found in the Melora Saddle of South Africa's Lapalala Wilderness depicts one of these animals. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: rhinoceros (Some archaeologists argue the Golden Rhinoceros was imported from India since it only has one horn, and rhino species in Africa all have two. The Siberian Rhinoceros may have inspired the unicorn.)):
    Name this animal depicted in a gold figurine from Mapungubwe ("mah-poong-GOO-bway") that is possible evidence of trade between Sub-Saharan Africa and India. An extinct Siberian type of this animal covered in fur may have inspired a mythical creature.
  Part 2 (ans: Great Zimbabwe [prompt on Zimbabwe]):
    Mapungubwe may have been founded by early Shona, who also founded this ancient city known for its soapstone birds.
  Part 3 (ans: Tsodilo Hills):
    In 2006, Sheila Coulson claimed to have found evidence of the world's oldest ritual at this site's Rhino Cave. This site in modern-day Botswana contains many examples of ancient rock art from the San people.

[B2] 2024 Penn Bowl (2024) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: A kingdom of these people organized soldiers into companies called missocas under the command of generals called inhabezes ("EEN-hah-bay-zays"). For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Shona [or Washona; or Vashona]):
    Name these people who founded the Rozvi ("ROE-zee") Empire under Changamire ("CHAHNG-gah-mee-ray") Dombo. The Rozvi Empire supplanted remnants of these people's Mutapa kingdom, centered at Zvongombe ("ZOEN-goem-bay").
  Part 2 (ans: Great Zimbabwe):
    The Shona in the Rozvi ("ROE-zee") Empire built many cities in emulation of this "Great" city built by their ancestors. Eight soapstone birds were found in this city, which shares its name with a landlocked country in southern Africa.
  Part 3 (ans: Lobengula ("low-ben-goo-lah")):
    The formerly Rozvi city of Khami was declared a sacred site by this leader of the Ndebele (in-day-BAY-lay). This son of Mzilikazi ("um-ZEE-lee-kah-zee") signed the Rudd Concession with the British, who defeated him in the First Matabele War.

[B3] 2023 Halloween Hippopotamus Invitational (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The earliest documents referencing the ruins of this city are from a 1531 letter by Portuguese captain Vicente Pegado, who referred to this city as Symbaoe. For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe):
    Name this medieval African city whose name lends itself to a modern state in Southern Africa. Most scholars believe this city was originally settled by the ancestors of the modern-day Shona people.
  Part 2 (ans: Kingdom of Mutapa [accept Mwenemutapa]):
    This kingdom emerged out of Great Zimbabwe after Zimbabwean leader Nyatsimba Mutota ventured out of the city to find new sources of salt. This kingdom located in what is now Zimbabwe and Mozambique managed to survive in some form until 1917, when its last king died in combat against Portugal.
  Part 3 (ans: Cecil Rhodes):
    This founder of the De Beers company bought carvings from Great Zimbabwe. This racist 7th Prime Minister of Cape Colony denied that Black Africans had built the civilization

[B4] 2023 BHSU (2023) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Artifacts from as far as India were traded to this kingdom in exchange for gold, and it shows early evidence of class hierarchy in Africa, with the wealthy living higher on a hill and being buried with gold objects. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Kingdom of Mapungubwe (mah-poon-GOOB-way)):
    Name this medieval kingdom on the Limpopo River. South Africa's highest award for merit is named for this kingdom.
  Part 2 (ans: rhinoceros [accept variants mentioning rhinoceros] (The Siberian rhino may have inspired the unicorn.)):
    The badge of the Order of Mapungubwe portrays a gold-coated sculpture of one of these animals, the best known artifact of the kingdom. A now-extinct Siberian variant of these animals covered in fur may have inspired a mythical creature.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Zimbabwe [prompt on Zimbabwe]):
    Historians once theorized that the people of Mapungubwe also built this site to its north, which was inhabited by the Shona people around the same time period and lends its name to a modern country.

[B5] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A group of objects from this city are believed to be depictions of the shiri ye denga that use lightning to "stitch together heaven and earth." For 10 points each,
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe):
    Name this medieval city once thought to have been home to a Late Iron Age kingdom. In the 1880s, six sculptures on monoliths were moved from their original location in the Eastern Enclosure of this city within its Hill Complex.
  Part 2 (ans: bronze [accept Benin Bronzes]):
    A set of African artworks named for this material includes hundreds of "plaques" and a number of portrait heads and figurines depicting kings called Oba. Although they are named for this material, those artifacts are actually made from brass.
  Part 3 (ans: masks [or African masks; prompt on headdresses]):
    The first Queen Mother of the Benin Empire is depicted in an ivory one of these objects now held in the British Museum. These objects are often worn in ritual dances to symbolize the faces of the dead in many African cultures.

[B6] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This city was divided into the Hill Complex, the Valley Complex, and the Great Enclosure for royal residence. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe [accept the Great Zimbabwe National Monument; reject "Zimbabwe"]):
    Name this medieval city founded by ancestors of the Shona people. Eight eagles carved from soapstone were discovered at this southern African city.
  Part 2 (ans: Kilwa [or Kilwa Island; or Kilwa Kisiwani; accept the Kilwa Sultanate]):
    Pottery shards from China found at Great Zimbabwe indicate that the city's inhabitants may have traded with this city. A namesake sultanate named for this city was founded by Ali ibn al-Hassan Shirazi.
  Part 3 (ans: gold [or Au; or aurum; accept gold mines; accept gold coins or other good involving gold]):
    Archaeologists damaged Great Zimbabwe while exploring their mines for this metal, one of the primary exports of the city. Medieval Trans-Saharan trade often involved the exchange of salt and this precious metal.

[B7] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: The most notable artifact from this medieval kingdom is a "Golden Rhinoceros" made of foil with a wooden center. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mapungubwe [accept MK kingdom]):
    Identify this civilization, whose name means "Place of the Jackals," which was the first class-based society in Africa. Its elite lived on top of a namesake hill, the middle class on a plateau, and the lowest class below in a valley.
  Part 2 (ans: Great Zimbabwe):
    The Mapungubwe dominated trade in southern Africa until the emergence of this "Great" kingdom in the 11th century. It was home to soapstone bird sculptures and stone ruins said to replicate the Queen of Sheba's palace.
  Part 3 (ans: Kilwa Sultanate [or Kilwa Kisiwani]):
    The Mapungubwe traded gold with this Swahili Coast empire, founded in 960 CE by one of seven sons of the Persian king of Shiraz. Its founder promised to acquire enough cloth to cover the island, only to renege on the deal.

[B8] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: This city was once home to an Eastern Enclosure which contained birds that are the national emblem of the modern-day country in which this city lies. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe [do NOT accept or prompt on just "Zimbabwe"]):
    Name this now-ruined city built by the Shona people which contained a Great Enclosure with a 820 feet long wall.
  Part 2 (ans: United Republic of Tanzania):
    The residents of Great Zimbabwe traded with the Kilwa sultanate, which was based in this modern-day country. This country is also the site of the ruins of Engaruka, which was abandoned in the 18th century.
  Part 3 (ans: Bantu):
    The Shona people were part of this larger ethnolinguistic group which experienced an expansion in Southern Africa sometime in the first millennium BC.

[B9] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Karl Mauch ("MAO'kh") falsely identified this archeological site as the biblical city of Ophir ("OH-fur"), though in 1905, David Randall-MacIver ("Randall muh-KYE-ver") correctly identified this site to be of African origin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe):
    Name this archaeological site home to the Great Enclosure and many soapstone bird statues. This site lent its name to the African country in which it is located, whose capital is Harare.
  Part 2 (ans: Shona [accept Karanga]):
    Great Zimbabwe was constructed by this ethnic group, which is also the largest in modern-day Zimbabwe. A leader from this ethnic group named Nyatsimba created the Mutapa Kingdom.
  Part 3 (ans: gold):
    Mutapa was a major producer of this resource that was exported to the Portuguese through the port of Sofala. Large amounts of this resource were discovered in Witwatersrand ("vit-VOT-ers-ROND") in 1886.

[B10] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Flinders Petrie claimed a cartouche found at this site showed links to Ancient Egypt, but the object was found to be a forgery. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe):
    Name this archaeological site. The most notable artifacts from here are carved soapstone birds, which are now a national emblem. The Mutapa kingdom was its builders' successor state.
  Part 2 (ans: the Lemba people):
    While its construction is normally attributed to the Shona, this other African ethnic group also claim to have built Great Zimbabwe. This ethnic group's adamant belief in a Jewish heritage has not been proven or disproven.
  Part 3 (ans: a wall [accept obvious equivalents]):
    Another monumental African structure is Sungbo's Eredo, a structure of this kind. The construction of another particularly large structure of this kind was started in earnest by Qin Shi Huangdi.

[B11] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about places where castle-like buildings were built far away from Europe during the Middle Ages, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe [do not accept or prompt on "Zimbabwe"]):
    This site in southern Africa near Masvingo, probably built by ancestors of the Shona people, included a walled Great Enclosure. Robert Mugabe's flag depicts a sculpted soapstone bird found at this site.
  Part 2 (ans: Toyotomi Hideyoshi [prompt on "Hideyoshi" as some sources identify him by that name alone]):
    This man, the second of Japan's three great unifiers, built a castle at Osaka where Tokugawa Ieyasu later besieged this man's son Hideyori.
  Part 3 (ans: Micronesia [or Federated States of Micronesia]):
    The sunken medieval fortress of Nan Madol, built on coral near Pohnpei in this island group, may have inspired H.P. Lovecraft's R'lyeh. On its isle of Yap medieval people may have rolled huge stone disks called rai for currency.

[B12] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | History
     Leadin: Answer the following about the history of birds, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Dinshaway Incident [or Denshawai; or Dinshwai]):
    In 1906, an incident named for this Egyptian town broke out when peasants objected to British officers hunting pigeons for sport. The consul general Lord Cromer retired just after this incident, which Mustafa Kamil used to rally Egyptian nationalists.
  Part 2 (ans: Great Zimbabwe [do NOT accept or prompt on "Zimbabwe"]):
    Eight soapstone bird sculptures were excavated in the ruins of this ancient city, which was first sighted by Adam Render and explored by his companion Karl Mauch.
  Part 3 (ans: Mansa Musa [or Musa Keita I of Mali]):
    A golden falcon was said to perch eternally on the silk umbrella of this filthy rich ruler of the Mali Empire, who built Sankore University and made a noted pilgrimage to Mecca in 1324.

[B13] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: Of the eight birds famous birds carved out of soapstone which found in this site, five were quickly sold to Cecil Rhodes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe):
    Name this archeological site that gave its name to a country in Africa.
  Part 2 (ans: Shona):
    Great Zimbabwe took its name from the language of this ethnic group, whose ancestors are believed to have constructed the ruined city.
  Part 3 (ans: Ian (Douglas) Smith):
    Great Zimbabwe was a political symbol of the black activists opposed to the rule of this longtime white Rhodesian prime minister, who fought the Bush War and signed the Lancaster House Agreement with Robert Mugabe.

[B14] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name some pre-colonial powers given some information concerning either their flags or flags they inspired.
  Part 1 (ans: Incan Empire):
    This pre-Columbian power used a version of the rainbow-colored wiphala flag. Sadly, it lost prominence after Francisco Pizarro strolled into town.
  Part 2 (ans: Ashanti Empire):
    This African polity's flag featured golden, black and green stripes, with a golden stool in the center.
  Part 3 (ans: Great Zimbabwe [do not accept or prompt on "Zimbabwe"]):
    A soapstone sculpture of a namesake bird found in the ruins of this kingdom inspired a flag still in use today, which features said bird on a red star, to the left of four different colored stripes.

[B15] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: David Randall-Maclver did archaeological work on this site connected by legend to the biblical capital of the Queen of Sheba. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Great Zimbabwe National Monument [do not prompt on "Zimbabwe"]):
    Name this ruined city that was abandoned around 1450. The Hill Ruins, Great Enclosure, and Valley Ruins are in this capital of an African kingdom corresponding to a modern country with capital at Harare.
  Part 2 (ans: Soapstone [or soaprock or steatite]):
    The Zimbabwe Bird carvings found on walls and monoliths at Great Zimbabwe were made of this material. It's a common material used for carving sculptures around the world such as those of the Inuit.
  Part 3 (ans: Shona people):
    This Bantu people founded Great Zimbabwe in the 11th century. The Torwa Dynasty at Khami prospered after this people abandoned Great Zimbabwe, which means "House of Stone" in their language.
