=== STOCK CLUES: Sonia Delaunay ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Delaunay [accept Robert Delaunay or Sonia Delaunay; accept Sonia Terk or Sarah Stern until "geisha" is read, but prompt afterwards]
  - An artist with this surname created numerous sketches of clothing featuring text by Vicente Huidobro and Tristan Tzara called "dress-poems." That artist with this surname placed a rainbow on the waist of a costume for the title role of Diaghilev's ballet Cleopatre.
  - Another artist with this surname depicted a geisha in the background of his portrait of Jean Metzinger called Man with a Tulip.
  - An artist with this surname purposely published enough copies of her long-format illustration of a Blaise Cendrars poem that they could be stacked to reach the height of a certain building; that artist, who was born as Sarah Stern, launched a boutique selling "simultanist" clothing.
  - Two artists with this surname founded a movement with Frantisek Kupka which included a series of paintings centered on a red version of the Eiffel Tower.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of Robert and Sonia, the married founders of Orphism. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Otherworldly vegetation sprouts from leaf-like appendages representing wings in this artist's painting Garden Airplane-Trap. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Max Ernst [or Maximilian Maria Ernst] (The unnamed artwork is Two Children Are Threatened by a Nightingale.)):
    Name this artist, who in a collage depicted two soldiers carrying a wounded comrade away from an airplane with human arms. Another of this artist's works blending painting with collage includes a gate attached to its frame next to a girl brandishing a knife at a bird.
  Part 2 (ans: Italian Futurism [or Futurismo]):
    The Aeropittura movement, which concentrated on representations of planes and aerial landscapes, was a late offshoot of this earlier artistic movement whose members included Giacomo Balla and Filippo Marinetti.
  Part 3 (ans: Delaunay [accept Robert Delaunay; accept Sonia Delaunay; accept Sonia Terk; accept Sarah Elievna Stern]):
    A Ferris wheel appears in the background of a "disc painting" by an artist with this surname titled Sun, Tower, Airplane. Another artist with this surname designed the set for Tristan Tzara's 1923 production of The Gas Heart.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Answer the following about projects to integrate poetry and visual art, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Sonia Delaunay):
    This artist created an accordion book of Blaise Cendrars's multicolored poetry alongside her paintings of a journey on the Trans-Siberian Railway to France, represented visually by the Eiffel Tower.
  Part 2 (ans: Frank O'Hara and Larry Rivers):
    These two people collaborated on Stones, a series of lithographs with accompanying poems. One of these two people wrote "To the Harbormaster" to the other, as well as a poem about looking at his "Washington Crossing the Delaware."
  Part 3 (ans: Kazuo Ishiguro):
    This author wrote The Summer We Crossed Europe in the Rain, an illustrated series of lyrics for the jazz singer Stacy Kent. He also wrote about the painter Masuji Ono in An Artist of the Floating World.

[B3] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Several artists had the last name "Delaunay." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jules-Elie Delaunay):
    This academic painter painted a youth with red hair handling a sword in David Triumphant and a woman in a pink dress in Sappho Kissing her Lyre.
  Part 2 (ans: Sonia Delaunay):
    This co-founder of Orphism illustrated Blaise Cendrars' Prose of the Trans-Siberian and of Little Jehanne of France. Semicircles and arches of varying colors appear in this artist's work, Coccinelle.
  Part 3 (ans: Robert Delaunay):
    This artist, husband of Sonia Delaunay, supposedly punched Georges Rouault at the Salon d'Automne after the latter stepped over his paintings. His experiments in divisionism are seen in paintings like Paysage au disque.

[B4] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A photograph of this artist depicts her wearing one of her "dress-poems," or dresses embroidered with avant-garde poems, in front of a "door-poem" in her apartment. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sonia Delaunay [or Sonia Terk or Sarah Elievna Shtern; accept Robert Delaunay]):
    Name this fashion designer who applied the theory of simultaneisme, or using simultaneous contrasting colors, to her clothes.
  Part 2 (ans: ballerinas [or ballet dancers; prompt on dancers]):
    A Delaunay design for this profession uses concentric circles and zig-zags to emphasize the wearer's movements in a production of Cleopatra. That design eschews conventions of this profession's fashion, such as tutus.
  Part 3 (ans: hearts [accept The Gas Heart or Le Cœur a gaz]):
    Actors in a play titled for one of these objects could not escape a riot due to wearing Delaunay's cardboard trapezoid costumes. One of these objects is exposed on each of The Two Fridas in a Frida Kahlo self-portrait.

[B5] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about the use of vivid color in modern painting, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Fauvists [accept word forms like les Fauves]):
    This group of 20th-century artists, led by Henri Matisse, exhibited many of their brightly colored works at the Salon d'Automne [doh-TUN]. Louis Vauxcelles [voh-SELL] coined their name by calling their works "Donatello among the wild beasts."
  Part 2 (ans: Roy (Fox) Lichtenstein):
    The use of primary colored Ben-Day dots to create a style reminiscent of comics was a hallmark of this American artist of Whaam! and Look, Mickey!
  Part 3 (ans: Delaunay [accept Robert and Sonia Delaunay]):
    A couple with this last name were two of the primary artists of the Orphism movement. The artist named Robert with this last name used abstraction and vivid color to represent Parisian landmarks like the Champs de Mars and the Eiffel Tower.

[B6] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist created the first "simultaneous book," in which floods of color swirl across the pages, in her illustration to Blaise Cendrars' Prose of the Trans-Siberian and of Little Joan of France. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sonia Delaunay [or Sonia Terk; or Sarah Ilinitchna Stern]):
    Name this Ukrainian-born French artist whose husband Robert created an image of the sun and the moon titled Simultaneous Contrasts.
  Part 2 (ans: Orphism [or Orphic cubism; prompt on "cubism"]):
    This avant-garde movement, championed by Robert and Sonia Delaunay, emphasized the use of cubic forms and shimmering colors.
  Part 3 (ans: Synchromism [or word forms]):
    In 1913, Stanton Macdonald-Wright and Morgan Russell, started this art movement in which colors were analogized to music. it is exemplified by their canvases Abstraction on Spectrum and Cosmic Symphony.
