=== STOCK CLUES: Yinka Shonibare ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 18 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Yinka Shonibare
  - This artist's 2023 sculpture of a flower in Aire Park, intended as a tribute to a victim of police violence, was described by locals as "Our Angel of the North." This artist lies in a bed, surrounded by maids, in a photograph which re-imagines a scene from The Rake's Progress.
  - This artist's works Hibiscus Rising and Diary of a Victorian Dandy both make use of material that this artist usually buys at Brixton Market.
  - This artist uses an electric (*) wheelchair since he is paralyzed on his left side.
  - This artist's works include a 1 to 30 replica of the HMS Victory and a re-creation of a painting depicting "happy accidents," one of his many works to use headless mannequins and traditional Dutch wax fabric.
  - For 10 points, Nelson's Ship in a Bottle and The Swing (After Fragonard) are by what British-Nigerian artist? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Victorian era [prompt on the 19th century or 1800s] (The lead-in is Yinka Shonibare's Diary of a Victorian Dandy.)
  - This period inspired a "diary" of five photographs whose "14.00  hours" entry depicts its artist standing dramatically in an ornate study, clutching a bundle of papers in his non-paralyzed hand.
  - A photographer active during this period spliced together images of a "venerable" sage and a veiled nude to form the center of his photomontage The Two Ways of Life. [PWR]
  - John the Baptist's severed head rests serenely in a bowl in one of this period's popular "headless portraits" captured by Oscar (*) Rejlander .
  - J.
  - J.
  - Mayall captured 14 cartes de visite of this period's namesake, who amassed a collection of photographs by Henry Fox Talbot.
  - A photographer active during this era captured Arthurian-inspired portraits in her characteristic soft-focus style to illustrate a contemporary's Idylls of the King.
  - For 10 points, Julia Margaret Cameron was active during what regnal era? [GIVE]

[T3] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Trafalgar Square [prompt on London; anti-prompt (ask "can you be less specific?") on the Fourth Plinth until read] (Yinka Shonibare sculpted Nelson's Ship in a Bottle for the Fourth Plinth.)
  - This location currently houses a sculpture meant to evoke "hubris and impending collapse." A commission for this location drew from a George Stubbs engraving for a skeletal bronze horse with a ticker marking stock prices in real time; that is Hans Haacke's Gift Horse.
  - Members of the public were invited to stand in for sculptures at this location in Anton Gormey's One and Other.
  - Heather Phillipson's THE END, which features a fly, a drone, and a cherry atop a swirl of whipped cream, currently stands at this location on its Fourth Plinth.
  - This place's four bronze lions were sculpted by Edwin Landseer, and its namesake battle was commemorated with a Ship in a Bottle containing the HMS Victory.
  - For 10 points, name this square in London, also home to Nelson's Column. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 THERAPY (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artwork consists of many patterned circles, which bear resemblance to fabrics found in many of its artist's other works. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Line Painting):
    Name this art piece, which depicts several button-like circles with various African textile patterns and segments resembling eyes.
  Part 2 (ans: Yinka Shonibare):
    This Young British Artist created Line Painting. He is also known for an installation which depicts the subject of a Fragonard painting without her head.
  Part 3 (ans: HMS Victory [prompt on "Nelson's Ship"]):
    Shonibare depicted this ship "in a Bottle" in an installation once held at Trafalgar Square. The sails of the ship consist of patterned textiles, used to symbolize African identity and independence.

[B2] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Henri Matisse's cut-outs were influenced in part by the elaborate geometric patterns that adorn works in this medium made by the Kuba people. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: cloth [or clothing; or textiles; or weaving; or tapestry; or fabric]):
    Name this material that is often dyed brown with fermented mud in Malian bogolanfini and resist-dyed with wax in the Javanese batik. This material is also used for African wax-prints and in many garments like the dashiki.
  Part 2 (ans: Yinka Shonibare ("YEEN-kah sho-nih-BAH-ray")):
    This British-Nigerian artist and member of the Young British Artists uses many colorful Ankara cloths in his signature headless mannequin sculptures like the one in his The Swing (After Fragonard).
  Part 3 (ans: kente cloth):
    Ghanaian artist El Anatsui uses bottle caps to produce his own cloth following the same method used to create this traditional cloth. Many African-American students wear stoles made from this cloth at their graduations.

[B3] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Members of the Stuckist group dressed up as clowns and protest this prize's awarding outside the Tate Britain. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Turner Prize):
    Name this annual prize awarded to the best British visual artist. Damien Hirst's The Physical Impossibility of Death in the Mind of Someone Living was nominated for this prize in 1992.
  Part 2 (ans: sharks [accept tiger sharks]):
    The Stuckists created a piece titled A Dead [one of these animals] is Not Art in response to Hirst's piece placing one of them in formaldehyde. A John Singleton Copley painting shows "Watson" being attacked by one of these animals.
  Part 3 (ans: Yinka Shonibare ("YEEN-kah shoh-nih-BAH-ray")):
    Despite being the audience favorite, this British-Nigerian artist was not awarded the 2004 Turner Prize. This artist's piece Nelson's Ship in a Bottle was commissioned for the Fourth Plinth of Trafalgar Square.

[B4] 2022 NASAT (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In 2018, this artist wrote the names of successful immigrants on the spines of 3,200 books as part of his installation The American Library. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yinka Shonibare ("shone-eh-BARR-ay")):
    Name this British-Nigerian artist who sculpts headless mannequins dressed in period costumes made from Ankara fabric in works like Gallantry and Criminal Conversation.
  Part 2 (ans: The Swing [or L'Escarpolette; or The Happy Accidents of the Swing; or Les Hasards heureux de l'escarpolette]):
    In 2001, Shonibare created a sculptural representation of this Jean-Honore Fragonard painting in which a shoe flies off the foot of a woman in a pink dress as she uses the title device.
  Part 3 (ans: Trafalgar Square [prompt on Nelson's Column]):
    In 2010, Shonibare's sculpture of a large ship in a bottle was placed atop the empty fourth plinth in this location, nearby four lion sculptures designed by Edwin Landseer.

[B5] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Two colorful astronauts float near a projection of Apollo 13 in this artist's exhibition Space Walk. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yinka Shonibare):
    Name this Nigerian artist known for decapitating models from English painting and replacing their clothes with Dutch wax fabric in sculptures.
  Part 2 (ans: Medusa):
    Shonibare used a Black model in his recreation of a Caravaggio painting on a wooden shield depicting this woman. In Shonibare's work, the snakes that make up this woman's hair are made of Ankara cloth.
  Part 3 (ans: ballerina [or a ballet dancer; prompt on dancer alone with "What type of dancer?"] (The sculpture in the second sentence is Edgar Degas' Little Dancer of Fourteen Years.)):
    A 2015 Shonibare exhibition depicted the "Rage" of Ancient Greek Gods dressed as these people. A wax sculpture of one of these people with real hair and clothing is the only sculpture by an artist known for painting people with this profession.

[B6] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist created Nelson's Ship in a Bottle, a large replica of the HMS Victory commissioned for the Fourth Plinth of Trafalgar Square. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yinka Shonibare):
    Name this British-Nigerian artist known for his signature use of Dutch wax fabric, which he used for the outfit of a headless woman in a recreation of Fragonard's painting The Swing.
  Part 2 (ans: Thomas Gainsborough):
    In another use of headless mannequins and Dutch wax fabric, Shonibare recreated Mr. and Mrs. Andrews, a painting by this 18th-century artist.
  Part 3 (ans: Tom Rakewell [accept either underlined portion; prompt on "rake" or "A Rake's Progress"]):
    Shonibare has photographed himself as a "black dandy" in the series Diary of a Victorian Dandy, which was based on a series of paintings that begins with this character being fitted for a new suit and ends with him in Bedlam.
