=== STOCK CLUES: Daniel Chester French ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 5 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Answer: Daniel Chester French
  - A bronze relief sculpture by this artist depicts a young sculptor working on a sphinx statue, with his hand being stopped by an angel of death; that work was created as a monument to the Milmore brothers. [PWR]
  - A badger and cluster of grapes sit on the helmet of a statue by this artist, which is atop the Capitol of Wisconsin. [PWR]
  - This artist's sculpture of Alice Cogswell at Gallaudet University gave rise to an urban legend that the hands of his most famous sculpture use (*) sign language to spell out the initials of that sculpture's subject. [PWR]
  - The Piccirilli brothers carved out this artist's most famous work, which is located in a Henry Bacon-designed presidential memorial in Washington, D.C.
  - For 10 points, what sculptor created the massive seated man at the Lincoln Memorial? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 Chicago Open (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Abbott Labs gifted this organization Thomas Hart Benton's series The Year of Peril, which includes a painting that depicts a man sowing skulls like seeds. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: United States Navy [or the US Navy; prompt on the United States Military or US Military; prompt on the navy by asking "of what country?"; prompt on sailors]):
    Name this organization that removed a painting of its possibly-queer employees after Hugh Rodman claimed that it represented "a most disgraceful, sordid, disreputable, drunken brawl."
  Part 2 (ans: Corcoran Gallery):
    Paul Cadmus's The Fleet's In! was removed from this museum that also canceled Robert Mapplethorpe's Perfect Moment exhibition in 1989. This DC museum distributed its collection for free after it closed in 2014.
  Part 3 (ans: French [accept Jared French, Margaret French, or Daniel Chester French]):
    Cadmus photographed queer men on Fire Island alongside Jared and Margaret, two magical realists with this surname. An earlier sculptor with this surname created a massive seated Abraham Lincoln.

[B2] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A bust of this man appears next to a woman wearing a blue turban in a portrait by George Caleb Bingham. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abraham Lincoln (The second statue is by Daniel Chester French.)):
    Name this man who was sculpted along with Samuel Kirkwood and Sequoyah by the self-taught artist Vinnie Ream for the US Capitol building. The Piccirilli ("PEE-chee-REE-lee") Brothers helped a different artist create a statue of this man.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago):
    Late in her life, Vinnie Ream exhibited some of her sculptures in this city at the World's Columbian Exposition.
  Part 3 (ans: Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney [or Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney] (She founded New York's Whitney Museum.)):
    This other sculptor was neighbors with Daniel Chester French when she created a memorial to the Titanic disaster in Washington, D.C. She later founded a namesake museum with the help of her secretary, Juliana Force.

[B3] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Louisa May Alcott's sister vouched for the talent of this sculptor's creator, who was an unknown 23-year-old college dropout at the time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Minute Man):
    Name this sculpture whose pose is very similar to the Apollo Belvedere. It was created out of ten melted cannons donated by Congress and depicts a man standing with a plow by his side.
  Part 2 (ans: Daniel Chester French):
    This sculptor, who created the massive statue of Abraham Lincoln at the Lincoln Memorial, got his start by receiving the commission to create The Minute Man.
  Part 3 (ans: Audrey (Marie) Munson):
    French worked with this woman as a model on numerous sculptures, including the statue on top of the Wisconsin State Capitol Dome. She has been called "America's First Supermodel" for being the model of choice for Alexander Calder and many other artists.

[B4] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Piccirilli brothers carved this sculptor's two most recognizable works, which were originally named for the Lenox and Astor collections but were renamed by Fiorello La Guardia. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edward Clark Potter):
    Name this sculptor of Patience and Fortitude, the two marble lions that sit outside the main branch of the New York Public Library.
  Part 2 (ans: Daniel Chester French):
    Potter was trained in the studio of this American sculptor, whose public sculptures include Minute Man in Concord, Massachusetts, Alma Mater at Columbia University, and a large seated statue on the National Mall.
  Part 3 (ans: Minnesota State Capitol building [accept answers containing Minnesota and Capitol]):
    French and Potter collaborated on a gold-plated quadriga titled Progress of the State that adorns this Cass Gilbert-designed building, which has the second-largest unsupported marble dome in the world behind St. Peter's in Rome.

[B5] 2016 "stanford housewrite" (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In Giovanni Volpato's allegorical sculpture of this geographical feature, a man leans against the Sphinx as numerous small children climb all over him, some of them playing with a crocodile at his feet. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nile River):
    Name this river who, in Bernini's Fountain of the Four Rivers, has a cloth draped around his head because the source of this river was not known at the time.
  Part 2 (ans: Daniel Chester French):
    This sculptor also allegorized the continents, depicting Africa as a woman seated between a lion and a sphinx. An owl peeks from the folds of an enthroned woman's robes in his Alma Mater, located at Columbia University.
  Part 3 (ans: Jean-Baptiste Carpeaux):
    In this Frenchman's The Four Parts of the World, allegories of the continents dance in a ring while holding up a celestial sphere. In his most famous sculpture, a man holds up a tambourine as women dance around him.

[B6] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The figures in this Black Hills monument were originally planned to have torsos. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Mount Rushmore National Monument):
    Name this monument by Gutzon Borglum that depicts the faces of four presidents including George Washington and Thomas Jefferson.
  Part 2 (ans: Lincoln Borglum [or Lincoln Borglum; or James Lincoln de la Mothe Borglum; prompt on "Borglum"; prompt on "his son"]):
    After Borglum's death in 1941, this man took over construction of Mount Rushmore and ultimately decided that it would look better without the torsos.
  Part 3 (ans: Daniel Chester French and Henry Bacon):
    Lincoln Borglum was named after Abraham Lincoln, whose namesake memorial in D.C. was created by this duo, a sculptor and an architect who also collaborated on the sculpture of the Marquis de Lafayette in Prospect Park.

[B7] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This sculptor produced a surprisingly erotic rendition of Genesis 6:2 in his marble group The Sons of God Saw the Daughters of Men That They Were Fair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Chester French):
    Name this New England sculptor who commemorated the Battles of Lexington and Concord with The Minute Man, and who created a giant 1920 statue of a seated President.
  Part 2 (ans: Abraham Lincoln):
    This is the aforementioned President, who sits inside a Greek Doric temple next to a giant Reflecting Pool in his monument on the National Mall.
  Part 3 (ans: Columbia University in the City of New York):
    French also produced Alma Mater, a seated statue of Athena with outstretched arms and an owl hidden underneath her cloak. That statue is situated on the steps leading to Low Memorial Library on the campus of this university.

[B8] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer these questions about the architecture of the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Daniel Chester French):
    This American sculptor created the Statue of the Republic, which overlooked the event. He is better known for his seated sculpture of Lincoln at the Lincoln Memorial and his Minute Man.
  Part 2 (ans: Frederick Law Olmsted):
    This man wanted to create a canal running through the Midway Plaisance he designed for the exposition. He collaborated with Calvert Vaux in designing Central Park.
  Part 3 (ans: City Beautiful):
    The Columbian Exposition helped bring about this architectural movement, used in the designs of Canberra and Coral Gables, which intended to make previously crowded urban environments more harmonious and attractive.
