# Antiquity, Late Antiquity, and Byzantium
> Classical Greece and Rome, Rome's transformation into a Christian empire, and the Byzantine Empire down to the fall of Constantinople in 1453.
Constantinople | Byzantine capital founded by Constantine, besieged repeatedly before falling to the Ottomans under Mehmed II in 1453.
Crete | Mediterranean island of Minoan civilization, later Venetian and Ottoman territory, united with Greece in 1913.
Byzantine Empire | Greek-speaking Eastern Roman Empire ruled from Constantinople, codified by Justinian, that fell to the Ottomans in 1453.
Justinian I | Byzantine emperor who codified Roman law in the Corpus Juris Civilis and reconquered Italy and North Africa via Belisarius.
Rome | Italian capital of the ancient Republic and Empire, later the papal seat and unified Italy's capital from 1871.
Theodoric the Great | Ostrogothic king who ruled Italy from Ravenna after overthrowing Odoacer, blending Roman and Gothic rule.
Egypt | Ancient civilization on the Nile, later a Roman, Byzantine, and Ottoman province before modern independence.
Alexandria | Egyptian city founded by Alexander the Great, famed for its ancient library and later a major Byzantine see.
iconoclasm | Byzantine religious controversy over the destruction of religious images, spanning the 8th and 9th centuries.
Diocletian | Roman emperor who ended the Crisis of the Third Century via the Tetrarchy and persecuted Christians.
Georgia | Caucasian kingdom converted to Christianity in late antiquity, later absorbed into the Russian and then Soviet empire.
Ravenna | Western Roman and later Ostrogothic and Byzantine capital in Italy, famed for its early Christian mosaics.
Attila the Hun | Nomadic Hunnic ruler who invaded the Roman Empire, checked at the Catalaunian Plains, dying in 453.
Constantine | Roman emperor who legalized Christianity, won at the Milvian Bridge, and founded Constantinople as his new capital.
Alexander the Great | Macedonian king who conquered the Persian Empire and pushed to India, spreading Greek culture widely.
Basil | 
Flavius Belisarius | Byzantine general under Justinian I who reconquered North Africa and Italy from Vandals and Ostrogoths.
Philip II of Macedon | Macedonian king who unified Greece after Chaeronea, father of Alexander the Great.
Procopius of Caesarea | Byzantine historian under Justinian I, author of both official histories and the scandalous Secret History.
Varangian Guard | Elite Byzantine imperial bodyguard composed largely of Norse and later English warriors.
Alexios I Komnenos | Byzantine emperor whose appeal for help against the Turks helped trigger the First Crusade.
Anna Comnena | Byzantine princess and historian whose Alexiad chronicles her father Alexios I's reign and the First Crusade.
Athens | Direct-democracy Greek city-state led by Pericles, center of classical culture defeated by Sparta.
Byzantine emperor | 
Cleisthenes | Athenian reformer credited with founding democracy by reorganizing citizens into ten tribes.
Goths | Germanic people split into Visigoths and Ostrogoths, who defeated Rome at Adrianople and later sacked it.
Greeks | Ancient and Byzantine Hellenic people whose modern nation won independence from the Ottomans in the 1820s.
Isaurian Dynasty | Byzantine imperial dynasty that instituted Iconoclasm, beginning with Leo III.
Justinian the Great | Byzantine emperor who codified Roman law and reconquered Italy and North Africa via Belisarius.
Leo III | Byzantine emperor who repelled an Arab siege of Constantinople and launched Iconoclasm.
Masada | Judean fortress where Jewish rebels made a mass-suicide last stand against besieging Roman forces.
Nika riots | 532 Constantinople chariot-racing riot that nearly toppled Justinian I before being brutally suppressed.
Phoenicians | Levantine maritime traders from Tyre and Sidon who spread the alphabet and founded Carthage.
Thebes | Boeotian Greek city-state that broke Spartan hegemony at Leuctra under Epaminondas.
Theodora | Influential Byzantine empress and wife of Justinian I, credited with steadying his rule during the Nika riots.
Thessaloniki | Major Byzantine port city in Greece, second only to Constantinople in importance.
aqueducts | Roman engineering works channeling water across long distances via gravity, still standing across Europe.
Augustus | Rome's first emperor, born Octavian, who defeated Mark Antony and Cleopatra to found the Principate.
Basil II | Byzantine emperor called "Bulgar-Slayer" for crushing the First Bulgarian Empire, expanding the empire's power.
Cicero | Roman orator, consul, and philosopher who exposed the Catiline conspiracy and was killed in the Second Triumvirate's proscriptions.
Corinth | Wealthy Peloponnesian trade city whose quarrel with Corcyra helped trigger the Peloponnesian War.
Emperor Heraclius | Byzantine emperor who defeated Sassanid Persia but soon lost the Levant and Egypt to Arab conquest.
First Council of Nicaea | 325 CE church council convened by Constantine that produced the Nicene Creed against Arianism.
Gaius Julius Caesar | Roman general and dictator who conquered Gaul, crossed the Rubicon, and was assassinated on the Ides of March.
Gaius Marius | Roman general who reformed the legions to accept landless citizens and fought Sulla in Rome's first civil war.
Greek fire | Incendiary naval weapon used by the Byzantines to devastating effect against enemy fleets.
Hadrian | Roman emperor who built a wall across northern Britain and consolidated the empire's frontiers.
helots | Enslaved serf population of Messenia and Laconia bound to Spartan-owned land, periodically rising in revolt.
Heraclius | Byzantine emperor who defeated Sassanid Persia but soon lost the Levant and Egypt to Arab conquest.
Herodotus | "Father of History" whose Histories chronicle the Persian Wars and describe Egypt, Persia, and Scythia.
Hyksos | Foreign dynasty of likely Semitic origin that ruled Lower Egypt during its Second Intermediate Period.
Julian the Apostate | Emperor who tried to revive traditional paganism against Christianity before dying campaigning against Persia.
Komnenos | Byzantine imperial dynasty founded by Alexios I, presiding over the empire during the Crusades era.
Leonidas I | Spartan king who led the last stand of 300 at Thermopylae against Xerxes I's Persian invasion.
Narses | Byzantine eunuch general under Justinian I who completed the reconquest of Italy from the Ostrogoths.
Ostrogoths | Eastern Gothic people who ruled Italy under Theodoric the Great before Byzantine reconquest.
Plataea | 479 BCE battle in which the combined Greek army decisively defeated the Persians, ending Xerxes I's invasion.
Pompeii | Roman city buried by Vesuvius's 79 CE eruption, preserved and later excavated.
Pompey the Great | Roman general and triumvir who lost to Caesar at Pharsalus and was murdered in Egypt.
Procopius | Byzantine historian under Justinian I, author of both official histories and the scandalous Secret History.
Quintus Septimius Florens Tertullianus | Early Christian theologian from Carthage, an influential early Latin church father.
Saint Peter | Apostle traditionally considered the first bishop of Rome, foundation of papal authority.
themes | Byzantine military-administrative provinces, developed to organize defense against Arab and other invasions.
Thessalonica | Major Byzantine port city in Greece, second only to Constantinople in importance.
Tyre | Phoenician port city famed for purple dye, besieged and captured by Alexander the Great.
Vandals | Germanic people who crossed into North Africa, sacked Rome in 455 CE, and were later destroyed by Belisarius's reconquest.
Vercingetorix | Gallic chieftain who united tribes against Julius Caesar before his defeat at the siege of Alesia.

# Early Medieval Europe
> Germanic successor kingdoms, the Frankish Merovingian and Carolingian dynasties, Anglo-Saxon England, the Viking Age, and the earliest Slavic and Rus' states, roughly 400-1000.
Charlemagne | Frankish king crowned Holy Roman Emperor by the pope in 800, uniting much of Western Europe under Carolingian rule.
Iceland | North Atlantic island settled by Norse Vikings, home to the medieval Althing assembly and the sagas.
Alfred the Great | Anglo-Saxon king of Wessex who repelled Viking invasions and promoted learning, later called "the Great."
Visigoths | Germanic people who sacked Rome in 410 and founded a kingdom in Iberia later conquered by the Umayyads.
Kiev | Capital of Kievan Rus', the medieval East Slavic state from which Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus trace their origins.
Bulgars | Turkic-origin people who settled the Balkans and merged with Slavs to found the medieval First Bulgarian Empire.
Merovingian Dynasty | First Frankish royal dynasty, founded by Clovis I, ruling Gaul until supplanted by the Carolingians in 751.
Norway | Scandinavian kingdom, Viking homeland later united with Denmark and Sweden before independence in 1905.
Saxons | Germanic people who settled Anglo-Saxon England and were conquered and Christianized on the continent by Charlemagne.
Mercia | Anglo-Saxon kingdom of the English Midlands, dominant under King Offa before absorption into Wessex-led England.
Otto | 
Carolingian Dynasty | Frankish royal line founded by Pepin the Short, reaching its height under Charlemagne before fragmenting after 843.
Clovis I | First king to unite the Franks, converted to Catholic Christianity, founding the Merovingian dynasty.
Kingdom of Norway | Scandinavian kingdom, Viking homeland later united with Denmark and Sweden before independence in 1905.
Normandy | Northern French duchy granted to Viking leader Rollo, launching point for William the Conqueror's 1066 invasion of England.
Otto the Great | Saxon king crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 962 after defeating the Magyars at the Battle of Lechfeld.
Vikings | Scandinavian seafaring raiders and traders who settled Normandy, England, and Kievan Rus' from the 8th to 11th centuries.
Khazars | Turkic steppe khaganate north of the Black Sea whose elite reportedly converted to Judaism; later crushed by Kievan Rus'.
Lombards | Germanic people who invaded Italy in the 6th century, founding a kingdom later conquered by Charlemagne's Franks.
Alcuin of York | English scholar who led Charlemagne's Carolingian Renaissance at the Palace School of Aachen.
Kyiv | Capital of Kievan Rus', the medieval East Slavic state from which Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus trace their origins.
Magyars | Nomadic steppe people who settled the Carpathian Basin and founded Hungary after raiding Europe.
Veliky Novgorod | Medieval Russian trading republic and Hanseatic partner, ruled by a veche assembly before Ivan III's conquest.
Charles Martel | Frankish leader who halted Umayyad expansion at the Battle of Tours in 732, grandfather of Charlemagne.
Harald Hardrada | Norwegian king killed invading England at Stamford Bridge in 1066, days before the Norman Conquest.
Aachen | Charlemagne's favored capital, site of his palace chapel and later the coronation city of German kings.
Battle of Hastings | 1066 battle in which William the Conqueror defeated Harold Godwinson, beginning Norman rule of England.
Domesday Book | Comprehensive land survey commissioned by William the Conqueror in 1086 to assess England's wealth and taxation.
Lindisfarne | English monastic island whose 793 Viking raid is often considered the start of the Viking Age.
Normans | Viking-descended people of Normandy who conquered England in 1066 and Sicily in the 11th century.
Otto I | Saxon king crowned Holy Roman Emperor in 962 after defeating the Magyars at Lechfeld.
Wessex | Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Alfred the Great, whose dynasty eventually unified England.
William I | Likely William the Conqueror, Duke of Normandy who defeated Harold at Hastings and became King of England.
William the Conqueror | Norman duke who defeated Harold Godwinson at Hastings in 1066, commissioning the Domesday Book.
Aethelred the Unready = Æthelred the Unready | Anglo-Saxon king whose poorly advised reign saw renewed Viking invasions and the Danegeld tribute payments.
Franks | Germanic people who conquered Gaul under Clovis and built the Carolingian Empire under Charlemagne.
Great Heathen Army | Coalition of Viking forces that invaded Anglo-Saxon England in 865, conquering all kingdoms but Alfred's Wessex.
Greenland | Arctic island settled by Norse Vikings under Erik the Red, later a Danish territory.
Kievan Rus = Kievan Rus' | Medieval East Slavic federation centered on Kyiv, from which Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus trace their origins.
Northumbria | Powerful early Anglo-Saxon kingdom, a center of Christian learning at monasteries like Lindisfarne and Jarrow.
Pepin | Likely Pepin the Short, first Carolingian king of the Franks and father of Charlemagne.
the Venerable Bede = Venerable Bede | Anglo-Saxon monk whose Ecclesiastical History of the English People is a key source for early medieval England.
Tours | French city near which Charles Martel halted Umayyad expansion into Europe in 732.
Winchester | Former Anglo-Saxon capital of Wessex under Alfred the Great, later an important Norman administrative center.
Harold | 
Harold Godwinson | Last Anglo-Saxon king of England, killed at the Battle of Hastings by William the Conqueror in 1066.
Novgorod | Medieval Russian trading republic and Hanseatic partner, ruled by a veche assembly before Ivan III's conquest.
Offa of Mercia | Powerful Anglo-Saxon king of Mercia who built the defensive earthwork Offa's Dyke against the Welsh.
Pepin the Short | First Carolingian king of the Franks, father of Charlemagne, who deposed the last Merovingian king.
Rollo | Viking leader granted Normandy by the French crown, ancestor of William the Conqueror.
Rurik | Legendary Varangian founder of the Rurikid dynasty that ruled Russia until the Romanovs.
Slavs | Indo-European peoples who spread across Eastern Europe in the early Middle Ages, dividing into East, West, and South branches.
Synod of Whitby | 664 English church council that adopted Roman rather than Celtic Christian practices.
Vladimir | 
Battle of Tours | 732 battle in which Charles Martel halted Umayyad expansion into Francia.
Canute the Great | Danish king who ruled England, Denmark, and Norway in a North Sea Empire.
Cnut the Great | Danish king who ruled England, Denmark, and Norway in a North Sea Empire.
Danelaw | Region of England under Viking legal control after the Great Heathen Army's conquests.
Edward the Confessor | Pious Anglo-Saxon king whose death without an heir triggered the succession crisis leading to 1066.
Emma of Normandy | Norman-born queen consort of both Aethelred the Unready and later Cnut the Great of England.
Frisians | Germanic seafaring people of the North Sea coast, converted to Christianity by missionaries like Boniface.
Haakon | 
Harald Bluetooth | Danish king who united Denmark and Christianized it, commemorated by the Jelling stones.
Harrying of the North | William the Conqueror's brutal 1069-1070 campaign devastating northern England to suppress rebellion.
Henry the Fowler | Saxon duke elected king of Germany, founder of the Ottonian dynasty, father of Otto the Great.
Isidore of Seville | Visigothic Spanish bishop whose Etymologiae encyclopedia preserved classical knowledge into the Middle Ages.
Kent | One of the earliest Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, first to receive Christian missionaries under Augustine of Canterbury.
Neustria | Western Frankish kingdom under the Merovingians, rival of Austrasia before Carolingian unification.
Pannonian Avars | Nomadic steppe people who dominated the Carpathian Basin before Charlemagne crushed their khaganate.
Sutton Hoo | Anglo-Saxon ship burial site in England, yielding a treasure trove revealing early medieval royal culture.
Yaroslav the Wise | Kievan Rus' grand prince who codified law, built Kyiv's Hagia Sophia, and expanded dynastic marriage ties.
Battle of Maldon | 991 battle in which Vikings defeated Anglo-Saxon defenders, commemorated in an Old English poem.
Battle of Stamford Bridge | 1066 battle in which Harold Godwinson defeated Norwegian invader Harald Hardrada days before Hastings.
Bayeux Tapestry | Embroidered cloth depicting the Norman Conquest of England, commissioned soon after the 1066 events.
Bede | Anglo-Saxon monk whose Ecclesiastical History of the English People is a key source for early medieval England.
burhs | Fortified Anglo-Saxon settlements built by Alfred the Great's dynasty to defend against Viking raids.
Carolingians | Frankish royal dynasty founded by Pepin the Short, reaching its height under Charlemagne.
Charles the Bald | Carolingian king who received West Francia at the Treaty of Verdun, later crowned emperor.
Cyrillic | Alphabet developed from Greek script for Slavic languages, attributed to followers of Saints Cyril and Methodius.
Danes | Scandinavian people whose Viking raids and Danelaw settlement shaped early medieval England.
do-nothing kings | Weak later Merovingian kings whose power was overshadowed by their Carolingian mayors of the palace.
Gregory I | Pope who sent missionaries to convert Anglo-Saxon England and strengthened papal authority in the West.
Gregory of Tours | Frankish bishop and historian whose History of the Franks is a key source for Merovingian-era Gaul.
Iona | Scottish island monastery founded by St. Columba, a key center of Celtic Christian missionary activity.
Kingdom of Asturias | First Christian kingdom in Iberia, founded after the legendary Battle of Covadonga, origin of the Reconquista.
Kingdom of Wessex | Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Alfred the Great, whose dynasty eventually unified England.
Lothair I | Carolingian emperor whose portion at the Treaty of Verdun became the contested "Middle Kingdom."
Mayor of the Palace | Frankish court office that grew to eclipse the Merovingian kings, held by Charles Martel and Pepin the Short.
Merovingian | First Frankish royal dynasty, founded by Clovis I, ruling Gaul until supplanted by the Carolingians in 751.
Oaths of Strasbourg | 842 mutual pledges by Charlemagne's grandsons, an early written document in Old French and Old High German.
Offa | Powerful Anglo-Saxon king of Mercia who built the defensive earthwork Offa's Dyke against the Welsh.
Orkney Islands | Scottish archipelago long under Norse rule as a Viking earldom before passing to Scotland in 1472.
Picts | Ancient people of northern and eastern Scotland, eventually merging with the Scots to form the Kingdom of Alba.
Primary Chronicle | Medieval East Slavic historical narrative tracing Kievan Rus' origins to the Varangian Rurik.
Pskov | Medieval Russian trading city and republic closely tied to Novgorod before Muscovite annexation.
thralls | Enslaved people within Viking Age Scandinavian society, the lowest class in the Norse social order.
Tver | Medieval Russian principality and rival of Moscow for leadership among the Rus' before Muscovite dominance.
Umayyad Caliphate | Islamic caliphate that conquered most of Iberia before Charles Martel halted its advance at Tours.
Uppsala | Ancient Swedish religious and later university center, seat of an archbishopric since the 12th century.
Vinland | North American coastal region reached by Norse Vikings under Leif Erikson around the year 1000.
Wenceslas I | Bohemian duke and Christian martyr later canonized, celebrated in the carol "Good King Wenceslas."
Widukind | Saxon leader who resisted Charlemagne's conquest and forced Christianization before eventually submitting.

# High and Late Medieval Europe
> The Crusades, the Holy Roman Empire and papacy, the Hundred Years' War and Wars of the Roses, the Iberian Reconquista, the Mongols, the Black Death, and medieval Central and Eastern Europe, roughly 1000-1500.
Hungary | Central European kingdom founded under Stephen I and the Arpads, later ruled by Ottomans, Habsburgs, and the Soviet bloc.
Poland | Central European kingdom of the Piast and Jagiellonian dynasties, later partitioned by Russia, Prussia, and Austria.
Sicily | Mediterranean island kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Hohenstaufens, Angevins, and Aragonese; site of the Sicilian Vespers revolt.
Burgundy | Wealthy Valois duchy under dukes like Philip the Good and Charles the Bold, absorbed by France and the Habsburgs.
Prague | Bohemian capital under Charles IV, site of the defenestrations that sparked the Hussite Wars and the Thirty Years' War.
Bavaria | Southern German duchy, later kingdom, long ruled by the Wittelsbach dynasty from its capital Munich.
Charles | 
Edward I | English king who conquered Wales, warred with Scotland's Wallace and Bruce, and issued key statutes and expulsions.
Malta | Mediterranean island held by the Knights Hospitaller, who withstood the Ottoman Great Siege of 1565.
Wales | Celtic principality conquered by Edward I of England after resistance from Llywelyn and later Owain Glyndwr.
Henry | 
Hundred Years' War | 1337-1453 series of conflicts between England and France over the French throne, featuring Joan of Arc and Agincourt.
Kalmar Union | 1397-1523 personal union joining Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, ended by Swedish secession under Gustav Vasa.
The Anarchy | 1135-1153 English civil war between King Stephen and Empress Matilda over succession to Henry I.
Hanseatic League | Medieval confederation of North German and Baltic trading cities dominating northern European commerce.
Teutonic Knights | Crusading military order that conquered and Christianized Prussia and the Baltic, defeated by Poland-Lithuania at Grunwald.
Black Death = the Black Death | Mid-14th-century plague pandemic that killed roughly a third of Europe's population, reshaping its economy and society.
Bohemia | Central European kingdom centered on Prague, home to the Hussite movement and later Habsburg rule after 1526.
Cathars | Dualist Christian heretical movement in southern France, suppressed by the papally sanctioned Albigensian Crusade.
First Crusade | 1096-1099 campaign called by Urban II that captured Jerusalem and established Crusader states in the Levant.
Gregory | 
Henry III | Likely the English king whose weak reign saw the Second Barons' War and Parliament's rise under Simon de Montfort.
John | Possibly King John of England, who lost Normandy to France and was forced to seal Magna Carta in 1215.
Naples | Southern Italian kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Angevins, Aragonese, and Spanish Habsburgs.
Avignon | French city that hosted the papacy from 1309 to 1377 during the "Babylonian Captivity" of the Church.
Kingdom of Hungary | Medieval Central European kingdom founded by Stephen I, later ruled by Ottomans and Habsburgs.
Reconquista | Centuries-long Christian reconquest of Muslim Iberia, completed by Ferdinand and Isabella's capture of Granada in 1492.
Albanians | Balkan people traditionally linked to the ancient Illyrians, later resisting Ottoman rule under Skanderbeg.
Aragon | Iberian kingdom whose Mediterranean empire and union with Castile under Ferdinand and Isabella forged modern Spain.
Eleanor of Aquitaine | Wealthy duchess who married Louis VII of France then Henry II of England, mother of Richard I and John.
Fourth Crusade | 1204 crusade diverted to sack Christian Constantinople, fatally weakening the Byzantine Empire.
Knights Templar | Crusading military order and early banking network, suppressed and its leader Jacques de Molay burned under Philip IV of France.
Scotland | Northern British kingdom that won independence from England under Robert the Bruce before its 1707 union with England.
Albigensian Crusade | Early-13th-century papal crusade against the Cathar heretics of southern France, led by Simon de Montfort.
Edward | 
Frederick Barbarossa | Holy Roman Emperor of the Hohenstaufen dynasty who battled the Lombard League and drowned on the Third Crusade.
James | 
Louis IX | Later canonized French king who led the Seventh and Eighth Crusades and codified French royal justice.
Toledo | Former Visigothic and Moorish Spanish capital, noted for its medieval school of translation and religious coexistence.
William | 
Edward II | English king defeated by Robert the Bruce at Bannockburn, later deposed and murdered amid baronial opposition.
Frederick | 
Henry V | English king who won the Battle of Agincourt during the Hundred Years' War and was celebrated by Shakespeare.
Janissaries | Elite Ottoman infantry corps recruited via the devshirme levy of Christian boys, eventually abolished in 1826.
Krakow | Former royal capital of Poland, seat of the Jagiellonian University and Wawel Castle.
Lollards | English proto-Protestant followers of John Wycliffe who challenged Church authority and translated the Bible.
Philip | 
Piast dynasty | First historic Polish royal dynasty, beginning with Mieszko I, who converted Poland to Christianity.
Richard II | English king who suppressed the Peasants' Revolt as a boy but was later deposed by Henry Bolingbroke.
Second Crusade | 1147-1149 crusade led by Louis VII and Conrad III that failed to recapture Edessa from Muslim forces.
Third Crusade | 1189-1192 crusade led by Richard I, Philip II, and Frederick Barbarossa against Saladin, failing to retake Jerusalem.
Archbishop of Canterbury | Senior cleric of the English Church, an office held by Thomas Becket, murdered after conflict with Henry II.
Barcelona | Catalan capital and medieval Mediterranean trading power within the Crown of Aragon.
Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa | 1212 battle in which a Christian coalition decisively defeated the Almohads, turning the tide of the Reconquista.
Charles the Bold | Last Valois Duke of Burgundy, whose ambitions to build a middle kingdom ended with his death at Nancy in 1477.
Cordoba | Andalusian city, capital of the Umayyad Caliphate of Cordoba, famed for its Great Mosque and religious tolerance.
Edward III | English king who claimed the French throne, starting the Hundred Years' War, and won at Crecy.
Frederick II | Likely Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor and "Stupor Mundi," a Sicilian-based ruler who clashed repeatedly with the papacy.
Golden Horde = the Golden Horde | Mongol khanate that dominated Russia and the steppe, exacting tribute from Rus' princes for over two centuries.
Henry IV | Possibly the Holy Roman Emperor who stood barefoot at Canossa during the Investiture Controversy with Pope Gregory VII.
Henry VI | Weak English king during the Hundred Years' War's end and the Wars of the Roses, deposed and later murdered.
Knights Hospitaller | Crusading military and charitable order that later held Rhodes and then Malta against Ottoman sieges.
Leo | 
Louis XI | French "Spider King" who consolidated royal power and defeated Charles the Bold of Burgundy.
Lubeck | Leading city of the Hanseatic League, dominating medieval Baltic and North Sea trade.
Orleans | French city whose 1429 siege was lifted by Joan of Arc, turning the tide of the Hundred Years' War.
Owain Glyndwr | Welsh nobleman who led a major early-15th-century revolt against English rule, briefly ruling an independent Wales.
Robert the Bruce | Scottish king who won independence from England at the Battle of Bannockburn in 1314.
Alfonso | 
Arpad dynasty | Founding royal dynasty of Hungary, beginning with the conquest under Arpad and ending with Andrew III in 1301.
Battle of Bouvines | 1214 battle in which Philip II of France defeated a coalition including King John of England and the Holy Roman Emperor.
Battle of Poitiers | 1356 Hundred Years' War battle in which the Black Prince captured the French king John II.
Calais | French port city held by England for two centuries after Edward III's siege, lost under Mary I.
Castile | Central Iberian kingdom whose union with Aragon under Ferdinand and Isabella forged modern Spain.
Galicia | Historic region split between Spain's Christian kingdom and, in Eastern Europe, Poland and later Austria-Hungary.
Henry II | Angevin English king who built a vast continental empire and clashed with Thomas Becket over Church authority.
Henry VII | First Tudor king who won the crown at Bosworth Field, ending the Wars of the Roses.
Holy Roman Empire | Decentralized Central European empire founded by Otto the Great, lasting from 962 until Napoleon dissolved it in 1806.
Jan Hus | Bohemian reformer burned at the stake for heresy, whose execution sparked the Hussite Wars.
John I | 
Louis | 
Richard I | English "Lionheart" king who led the Third Crusade against Saladin and spent little time in England.
Stephen I | First king of Hungary, canonized as a saint, who Christianized the country around the year 1000.
Transylvania | Historic region contested by Hungary, the Ottomans, and Romania, home to Vlad the Impaler and Dracula legends.
Alfonso X | Castilian king called "the Wise," who sponsored astronomical tables and a landmark legal code.
Antioch | Ancient Syrian city captured during the First Crusade, becoming one of the Crusader states' principalities.
Battle of Aljubarrota | 1385 battle securing Portuguese independence from Castile with English longbow support.
Boniface VIII | Pope who clashed with Philip IV of France over royal authority, leading to his humiliation at Anagni.
Brittany | Celtic-influenced French duchy that retained autonomy until its union with the French crown in 1532.
Catalonia | Northeastern Iberian region within the Crown of Aragon, with a modern separatist movement seeking independence from Spain.
Cologne | German Rhineland city and archbishopric, home to a great Gothic cathedral housing relics of the Magi.
Crimean Khanate | Tatar successor state to the Golden Horde on the Black Sea, an Ottoman vassal until Russian annexation in 1783.
Edward the Black Prince | English prince who won major Hundred Years' War victories at Crecy and Poitiers but died before inheriting the throne.
Isabella of France | English queen consort called the "She-Wolf," who deposed her husband Edward II with her lover Mortimer.
Ivan III | Muscovite grand prince called "the Great," who ended Mongol tribute and tripled Russian territory.
Jacquerie | 1358 violent peasant uprising in northern France during the Hundred Years' War's chaos.
Jacques de Molay | Last Grand Master of the Knights Templar, burned at the stake after Philip IV suppressed the order.
Jagiellonian Dynasty | Polish-Lithuanian royal dynasty founded by Jogaila, ruling a vast Central European union into the 16th century.
Joan of Arc | French peasant girl who claimed divine visions, lifted the siege of Orleans, and was burned as a heretic.
Kingdom of Bavaria | Southern German duchy, later kingdom, long ruled by the Wittelsbach dynasty from its capital Munich.
Kingdom of Poland | Central European kingdom of the Piast and Jagiellonian dynasties, later partitioned out of existence in the 18th century.
Lithuania | Baltic state that formed a vast medieval union with Poland under the Jagiellonians, independent again since 1990.
Matilda | Empress and claimant to the English throne whose civil war with King Stephen was called the Anarchy.
Mehmed II | Ottoman sultan called "the Conqueror," who captured Constantinople in 1453, ending the Byzantine Empire.
Prester John | Legendary Christian king believed by medieval Europeans to rule a powerful kingdom in Asia or Africa.
Saladin | Muslim sultan who recaptured Jerusalem from the Crusaders in 1187, prompting the Third Crusade against him.
Salerno | Southern Italian city famed for Europe's earliest medical school, later a WWII Allied landing site.
Sardinia | Mediterranean island contested by Pisa, Aragon, and Savoy, later giving its name to the Kingdom that unified Italy.
Saxony | German duchy and later electorate, home to the Wettin dynasty and a major early Reformation stronghold.
Simon de Montfort | English baron who led rebellion against Henry III and summoned an early representative Parliament.
Wars of the Roses | Late-15th-century English civil wars between the houses of Lancaster and York, ended by Henry Tudor's victory.
William Wallace | Scottish knight who defeated the English at Stirling Bridge before his capture and execution.
York | Northern English city and namesake of the House of York in the Wars of the Roses.
Acre | Crusader stronghold in the Levant, the last mainland Christian foothold to fall in 1291.
Alexander Nevsky | Novgorodian prince who defeated Swedish and Teutonic Knight invaders while paying tribute to the Mongols.
Alhambra Decree | 1492 edict by Ferdinand and Isabella expelling Jews who refused conversion from Spain.
Basques | Iberian people with a distinct pre-Indo-European language, straddling the Spanish-French border in the Pyrenees.
Battle of Agincourt | 1415 battle in which Henry V's outnumbered English longbowmen crushed the French during the Hundred Years' War.
Battle of Grunwald | 1410 battle in which Poland-Lithuania decisively defeated the Teutonic Knights.
Battle of Kosovo | 1389 battle in which the Ottomans defeated Serbian forces, becoming central to Serbian national mythology.
Battle of the Golden Spurs | 1302 battle in which Flemish militia infantry defeated French knightly cavalry.
Bruges | Flemish trading city, a leading medieval European commercial and cloth-manufacturing center.
Cistercians | Reformed Benedictine monastic order founded at Citeaux, known for austere discipline and agricultural innovation.
Edinburgh | Scottish capital built around its historic castle, seat of Scottish monarchy and later Enlightenment learning.
Edward IV | Yorkist king who won the throne during the Wars of the Roses, father of the Princes in the Tower.
Eleanor | 
Empress Matilda | Claimant to the English throne whose civil war with King Stephen was known as the Anarchy.
Ferdinand | 
Flanders | Wealthy medieval Low Countries region famed for cloth manufacturing, later a bloody World War I front.
Francois | 
Grand Duchy of Lithuania | Vast medieval state that united with Poland under the Jagiellonians, once Europe's largest by area.
Henry VI of England | Weak English king during the Hundred Years' War's end and the Wars of the Roses, deposed and later murdered.
Investiture Controversy | 11th-12th-century conflict between popes and emperors over who could appoint bishops, climaxing at Canossa.
Jean Froissart | French medieval chronicler whose Chronicles vividly narrate the Hundred Years' War.
Jerusalem | Holy city captured by the First Crusade in 1099 and recaptured by Saladin in 1187.
Kingdom of Bohemia | Central European kingdom centered on Prague, home to the Hussite movement and later Habsburg rule after 1526.
Kingdom of Naples | Southern Italian kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Angevins, Aragonese, and Spanish Habsburgs.
Kingdom of Navarre | Small Pyrenean kingdom straddling Spain and France, eventually absorbed by both Bourbon crowns.
Kingdom of Scotland | Northern British kingdom that won independence from England under Robert the Bruce before its 1707 union with England.
Ludwig | 
Lyon | Major French city and early Reformation-era printing center on the Rhone River.
Magna Carta Libertatum | Formal name of Magna Carta, the 1215 charter limiting King John's power and asserting baronial rights.
Philip IV | Likely Philip IV of France, who suppressed the Templars and clashed with Pope Boniface VIII.
Philip IV of France | French king called "the Fair," who suppressed the Knights Templar and humiliated Pope Boniface VIII.
Salic Law | Frankish legal tradition barring female succession, invoked to justify the Hundred Years' War's succession dispute.
Skanderbeg | Albanian nobleman who led decades of resistance against Ottoman conquest in the 15th century.
St. Albans | English town, site of early Wars of the Roses battles and home to a major medieval abbey.
Sylvester | 
Teutonic Order | Crusading military order that conquered and Christianized Prussia and the Baltic, defeated at Grunwald.
Wat Tyler | Leader of the 1381 Peasants' Revolt against English poll taxes, killed after confronting Richard II.
Welsh Marches | Border region between England and Wales ruled by semi-autonomous Marcher lords after the Norman Conquest.
Abbot Suger | French royal advisor and abbot whose rebuilding of Saint-Denis pioneered the Gothic architectural style.
Adriatic Sea | Sea bordering Venice's maritime empire and later a contested World War I and Yugoslav-era frontier.
Albert the Bear | German margrave who founded the Margraviate of Brandenburg through conquest of Slavic lands.
Anjou | French county and namesake of the Angevin dynasty that ruled England under Henry II and his sons.
Basque | Iberian people with a distinct pre-Indo-European language, straddling the Spanish-French border in the Pyrenees.
Battle of Crecy | 1346 battle where English longbowmen devastated French cavalry early in the Hundred Years' War.
Batu Khan | Mongol commander and grandson of Genghis Khan who founded the Golden Horde and devastated Rus'.
Bela | 
Bernard of Clairvaux | Influential Cistercian abbot who preached the Second Crusade and shaped medieval monastic reform.
Canterbury | English cathedral city where Archbishop Thomas Becket was murdered after conflict with Henry II.
Capetian dynasty | French royal dynasty founded by Hugh Capet in 987, ruling in direct line until 1328.
Champagne | French region famed for its medieval trade fairs and later its sparkling wine.
Charles VII | French king crowned with Joan of Arc's help, who ultimately expelled the English from France.
Clement | 
Concordat of Worms | 1122 agreement ending the Investiture Controversy between the papacy and the Holy Roman Emperor.
Council of Constance | 1414-1418 church council that ended the Papal Schism and had Jan Hus burned for heresy.
Duchy of Brittany | Celtic-influenced French duchy that retained autonomy until its union with the French crown in 1532.
Edessa | Crusader county in the Levant, the first Crusader state to fall, prompting the Second Crusade.
England | Kingdom unified by the Anglo-Saxons and conquered by the Normans in 1066, later joined with Scotland and Wales.
Ghibellines | Medieval Italian faction supporting the Holy Roman Emperor against the pro-papal Guelphs.
Golden Bull | 1356 decree of Charles IV formalizing the election procedure for the Holy Roman Emperor.
Gyorgy Dozsa | Hungarian mercenary who led a bloody 1514 peasant revolt, crushed and executed by the nobility.
House of Luxembourg | Medieval dynasty that provided several Holy Roman Emperors, including Charles IV, and Bohemian kings.
House of Valois | French royal dynasty ruling from 1328 to 1589, spanning the Hundred Years' War and Italian Wars.
Hugh Capet | First Capetian king of France, elected in 987, founding a dynasty that ruled in direct line until 1328.
Innocent | 
Innocent III | Powerful medieval pope who called the Fourth Crusade and the Albigensian Crusade, asserting papal supremacy.
Janos Hunyadi | Hungarian general who defended Christian Europe against Ottoman advances, notably at Belgrade in 1456.
Kingdom of Aragon | Iberian kingdom whose Mediterranean empire and union with Castile under Ferdinand and Isabella forged modern Spain.
Kingdom of Sicily | Mediterranean island kingdom ruled successively by Normans, Hohenstaufens, Angevins, and Aragonese.
Lambert Simnel | Boy pretender crowned "Edward VI" by Yorkist rebels against Henry VII, later pardoned to work in the royal kitchen.
Livonia | Baltic region conquered and Christianized by the Livonian and Teutonic Knights, later contested by regional powers.
Lords Appellant | Coalition of English nobles who curbed Richard II's power and executed his favorites in the 1380s.
Margraviate of Brandenburg | Medieval German march that grew into the core of Prussia under the Hohenzollern dynasty.
Martin V | Pope elected at the Council of Constance in 1417, ending the Western Schism.
Matthias Corvinus | Renaissance-era Hungarian king known for his Black Army and patronage of humanist learning.
Mongols | Central Asian steppe empire whose Golden Horde branch devastated and dominated Rus' for centuries.
Navarre | Small Pyrenean kingdom straddling Spain and France, eventually absorbed by both Bourbon crowns.
Palermo | Sicilian capital that blended Norman, Arab, and Byzantine cultures under the Kingdom of Sicily.
Peasants' Revolt | 1381 English uprising against poll taxes, led by Wat Tyler, that reached and threatened London.
Perkin Warbeck | Pretender who claimed to be a surviving Prince in the Tower, challenging Henry VII's throne.
Piers Gaveston | Favorite of Edward II whose influence provoked baronial opposition and led to his execution.
Pisa | Medieval Italian maritime republic and trade rival of Genoa and Venice, famed for its leaning tower.
Pomerania | Baltic coastal region contested among Sweden, Brandenburg-Prussia, and Poland across centuries.
Republic of Ragusa | Dalmatian maritime city-state, modern Dubrovnik, that balanced Venetian and Ottoman power through diplomacy.
Rhine River | Major Central European river long serving as a cultural and political border, especially with France.
Rhodes | Aegean island held by the Knights Hospitaller until the Ottomans conquered it in 1522.
Richard III | Last Plantagenet king, killed at Bosworth Field, allegedly responsible for the Princes in the Tower's deaths.
Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester | English baron who led rebellion against Henry III and summoned an early representative Parliament.
Sir John Mandeville | Author of a fantastical medieval travelogue describing distant lands, likely based on other travelers' accounts.
Unam Sanctam | 1302 papal bull by Boniface VIII asserting supreme papal authority over temporal rulers.
University of Cambridge | English university founded in 1209 by scholars who left Oxford after a town-gown dispute.
University of Paris | Medieval Europe's leading center of theological and philosophical learning, chartered in the 12th century.
Victual Brothers | Baltic and North Sea privateers-turned-pirates active in the late 14th century, opposing the Hanseatic League.
Vilnius | Capital of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, later contested between Poland, Russia, and the Soviet Union.
Visby | Gotland trading town, a major Hanseatic League center, sacked by Denmark's Valdemar IV in 1361.
Vytautas the Great | Grand Duke of Lithuania who expanded the state to its greatest extent, defeating the Teutonic Knights at Grunwald.
Waldensians | Medieval Christian reform movement founded by Peter Waldo, condemned as heretical and persecuted for centuries.
Westminster | London district housing the Abbey and Parliament, the seat of English monarchy and governance.
Adrian | 
Adrian IV | Only English pope, who reputedly granted Ireland to Henry II via the disputed Laudabiliter bull.
Algarve | Southern Portuguese region, the last area reconquered from Muslim rule during the Reconquista.
Auld Alliance | Long-standing Scotland-France alliance against England, dating from the late 13th century.
Baldwin | 
Barons | 
Battle of Barnet | 1471 Wars of the Roses battle in which Edward IV defeated and killed the Earl of Warwick.
Battle of Covadonga | Legendary early-8th-century battle marking the start of the Christian Reconquista in Iberia.
Battle of Kulikovo | 1380 battle in which Russian forces under Dmitri Donskoi defeated the Golden Horde's army.
Battle of Najera | 1367 battle in which the Black Prince restored Pedro the Cruel to Castile's throne during a Hundred Years' War side conflict.
Battle of Nicopolis | 1396 crusade battle in which the Ottomans crushed a European coalition, ending major anti-Ottoman crusading.
Battle on the Ice | 1242 battle in which Alexander Nevsky's forces defeated the Teutonic Knights on a frozen lake.
Callixtus III | Borgia pope who called for crusades against the Ottomans after the fall of Constantinople.
Catharism | Dualist Christian heretical movement in southern France, suppressed by the Albigensian Crusade.
Charles IV | Holy Roman Emperor and King of Bohemia who issued the Golden Bull and made Prague an imperial capital.
Children's Crusade | 1212 popular movement of youths said to have marched toward the Holy Land, ending in tragedy or legend.
Cilicia | Armenian kingdom in Anatolia allied with the Crusader states against Muslim powers.
Clement V | Pope who moved the papacy to Avignon and suppressed the Knights Templar under pressure from Philip IV.
Cluny Abbey | Highly influential Burgundian Benedictine monastery that spearheaded medieval monastic reform.
Constantine XI Dragases Palaiologos | Last Byzantine emperor, who died defending Constantinople against the Ottomans in 1453.
Constantine XI Palaiologos | Last Byzantine emperor, who died defending Constantinople against the Ottomans in 1453.
Cornwall | Southwestern English peninsula with a distinct Celtic heritage and historic tin-mining economy.
Crusades | Series of religious wars from 1095 to 1291 aimed at capturing and holding Jerusalem for Christendom.
Dandolo | Venetian doge family, most notably Enrico Dandolo, who directed the Fourth Crusade's sack of Constantinople.
Duchy of Saxony | German duchy central to Ottonian power, later fragmenting into electorates including Saxe-Wittenberg.
El Cid | Castilian nobleman and mercenary who fought both for and against Muslim rulers during the Reconquista.
Feast of the Pheasant | 1454 lavish Burgundian banquet where nobles vowed a crusade against the Ottomans after Constantinople's fall.
Fifth Crusade | 1217-1221 crusade that attacked Egypt but failed to trade it for Jerusalem's return.
Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor | Sicilian-based emperor and "Stupor Mundi" who clashed repeatedly with the papacy and led the Sixth Crusade.
fueros | Traditional regional charters of rights and privileges in medieval Spanish kingdoms, notably the Basque Country.
Granada | Last Muslim emirate in Iberia, conquered by Ferdinand and Isabella in 1492, completing the Reconquista.
Guelphs | Medieval Italian faction supporting the papacy against the pro-imperial Ghibellines.
Gwynedd | Most powerful medieval Welsh kingdom, whose princes led resistance against English conquest.
Henry I of England | Norman king whose death without a male heir triggered the succession crisis known as the Anarchy.
Holy Roman Emperor | 
House of Anjou | French comital dynasty whose branches ruled England (as Plantagenets) and later Naples and Hungary.
Hungarians | Magyar people who settled the Carpathian Basin and founded the medieval Kingdom of Hungary.
Hussite Wars | 1420s-1430s conflicts pitting followers of executed reformer Jan Hus against Catholic crusading forces.
Istanbul | Former Constantinople, renamed after the Ottoman conquest of 1453 and made the empire's capital.
Jan Zizka | Blind Hussite military commander whose innovative wagon-fort tactics repeatedly defeated crusading armies.
Joan | 
Jogaila | Lithuanian grand duke who became King of Poland, founding the Jagiellonian dynasty via marriage.
John Balliol | Scottish king installed by Edward I of England, later forced to abdicate amid the Wars of Scottish Independence.
John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster | Powerful son of Edward III who dominated English politics and fathered the Lancastrian royal line.
John Wycliffe | English theologian whose Bible translation and challenge to Church authority inspired the Lollards.
King of Poland | 
Kingdom of Castile | Central Iberian kingdom whose union with Aragon under Ferdinand and Isabella forged modern Spain.
Kingdom of Jerusalem | Crusader state established after the First Crusade in 1099, lost to Saladin in 1187.
Latins | Western European Catholics as termed by Byzantines, especially the crusaders who sacked Constantinople in 1204.
Lombard League | Coalition of northern Italian city-states that defeated Frederick Barbarossa's imperial forces at Legnano.
Lombardy | Northern Italian region named for the Lombards, later contested by Austria and unified Italy.
Lyons | Major French city and early Reformation-era printing center on the Rhone River.
Magna Carta | 1215 charter forced on King John by rebellious barons, limiting royal power and asserting legal rights.
Marco Polo | Venetian merchant traveler whose account of his journey to Mongol-ruled China shaped European views of Asia.
Margaret I of Denmark | Queen who engineered the Kalmar Union joining Denmark, Norway, and Sweden under one crown.
Mechelen | Flemish city that served as capital of the Habsburg Netherlands under Margaret of Austria.
Michael VIII Palaiologos | Byzantine emperor who recaptured Constantinople from the Latins in 1261, restoring Byzantine rule.
Mindaugas | First and only crowned king of Lithuania, who briefly converted to Christianity for political advantage.
Moravia | Central European region home to the early medieval Great Moravian state, later part of Bohemia.
Mortimer | Roger Mortimer, lover of Isabella of France, who helped depose Edward II before his own execution.
Nicaea | Byzantine successor state and exile capital after the Fourth Crusade's sack of Constantinople.
North Sea | Northern European sea central to Viking, Hanseatic, and later British and Dutch maritime power.
Palaiologos | Last Byzantine imperial dynasty, restoring the empire in 1261 until its fall to the Ottomans in 1453.
Papal States | Territories in central Italy ruled directly by the pope until absorbed by unified Italy in 1870.
Phanariots | Wealthy Greek families of Constantinople's Phanar district who served as Ottoman administrators.
Philip Augustus | French king who greatly expanded royal territory, defeating King John's coalition at Bouvines.
Philip the Good | Duke of Burgundy whose wealthy court patronized the arts and founded the Order of the Golden Fleece.
Pius | 
Poles | West Slavic people whose medieval kingdom under the Piasts and Jagiellonians shaped Central Europe.
Pope | 
Prince of Wales | 
Pyrenees | Mountain range dividing Spain and France, home to the Basque people and site of the Roland legend.
Quia Emptores | 1290 English statute restricting subinfeudation, reshaping feudal land tenure.
Ragusa | Dalmatian maritime city-state, modern Dubrovnik, that balanced Venetian and Ottoman power through diplomacy.
Riga | Baltic Hanseatic League city founded by German crusaders, later capital of Latvia.
Robert Guiscard | Norman adventurer who conquered southern Italy and fought the Byzantine Empire.
Robin Hood | Legendary English outlaw said to rob the rich to aid the poor during the reign of a wayward king.
Samarkand | Central Asian Silk Road city that became the glittering capital of Timur's Central Asian empire.
Sancho | 
scutage | Medieval English tax paid by knights in lieu of military service to the crown.
Stephen | 
Stephen of Blois | English king whose disputed reign against Empress Matilda plunged the country into the civil war called the Anarchy.
Sylvester II | First French pope, renowned scholar who introduced Arabic numerals and the astrolabe to Western Europe.
taifa | Petty Muslim successor kingdoms that fragmented Iberia after the Umayyad Caliphate of Cordoba's collapse.
Tamar the Great | Georgian queen who presided over her kingdom's medieval golden age of territorial and cultural expansion.
Tower of London | Norman fortress-palace-prison on the Thames, associated with the murder of the Princes in the Tower.
Urban II | Pope who launched the First Crusade with his 1095 call at the Council of Clermont.
Valencia | Mediterranean Spanish kingdom conquered from Muslim rule by El Cid and later the Crown of Aragon.
Vlad III Dracula | Wallachian prince notorious for impaling enemies, later the inspiration for Bram Stoker's vampire novel.
Wallachia | Romanian principality ruled by figures like Vlad the Impaler, a Danubian buffer against Ottoman expansion.
Wexford | Irish port town, site of a Norman landing and later Cromwell's brutal 1649 siege.

# Renaissance and the Age of Exploration
> The Italian city-states and humanism, the invention of printing, and the Portuguese and Spanish voyages of discovery, roughly 1400-1600.
Portugal | Iberian kingdom that pioneered Atlantic exploration under Henry the Navigator and Vasco da Gama; later Salazar's Estado Novo.
Florence | Tuscan city-state ruled by the Medici, cradle of the Italian Renaissance in art, banking, and humanist thought.
Venice | Maritime republic ruled by an elected doge, dominant in Mediterranean trade and a major Renaissance art center.
Genoa | Italian maritime republic and trade rival of Venice, birthplace of Christopher Columbus.
Lisbon | Portuguese capital and launch point for Vasco da Gama's voyages, devastated by the catastrophic 1755 earthquake.
Milan | Lombard city-state ruled by the Visconti and Sforza dukes, a major Renaissance power contested by France and Spain.
Battle of Lepanto | 1571 naval battle in which a Holy League fleet decisively defeated the Ottoman navy in the Gulf of Corinth.
Francis I | French Renaissance king and rival of Charles V, patron of Leonardo da Vinci, captured at the Battle of Pavia.
Isabella | Possibly Isabella I of Castile, who united Spain with Ferdinand, funded Columbus, and completed the Reconquista.
Johannes Gutenberg | German printer whose movable-type press revolutionized the spread of texts, first mass-producing the Gutenberg Bible.
Julius II | Warrior pope who commissioned Michelangelo's Sistine ceiling and Raphael's Vatican frescoes while waging war for papal lands.
Suleiman the Magnificent | Ottoman sultan at the empire's peak, who besieged Vienna and captured Belgrade and Rhodes.
Bartolome De Las Casas | Spanish friar and chronicler of the Americas whose writings denounced colonial abuses against indigenous peoples.
Battle of Mohacs | 1526 battle in which the Ottomans crushed Hungary, killing its king and opening the way to Ottoman dominance.
Christopher Columbus | Genoese explorer whose 1492 Spanish-sponsored voyage reached the Americas, opening the Columbian Exchange.
House of Braganza | Portuguese royal dynasty that restored independence from Spain in 1640 and ruled until the 1910 republic.
Kingdom of Portugal | Iberian kingdom that pioneered Atlantic exploration under Henry the Navigator before becoming a republic in 1910.
Maximilian I | Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor whose marriage alliances brought Burgundy and Spain into Habsburg hands.
Alexander VI | Borgia pope notorious for nepotism and corruption, father of Cesare and Lucrezia Borgia.
Andrea Doria | Genoese admiral and statesman who dominated Mediterranean naval affairs in the 16th century.
Battle of Pavia | 1525 battle in which Charles V's forces captured Francis I of France, a major Habsburg-Valois turning point.
Charles VIII | French king whose 1494 invasion of Italy launched the decades-long Italian Wars.
Farnese Family | Italian noble house that produced Pope Paul III and ruled the Duchy of Parma.
House of Aviz | Portuguese royal dynasty that presided over the Age of Exploration under Henry the Navigator.
House of Medici | Florentine banking dynasty that ruled Tuscany and produced several popes, patronizing Renaissance art.
House of Sforza | Milanese ducal dynasty that patronized Leonardo da Vinci before losing power to France and Spain.
Mainz | German city where Johannes Gutenberg developed movable-type printing in the mid-15th century.
Republic of Genoa | Medieval and early modern maritime republic, trade rival of Venice and birthplace of Christopher Columbus.
Republic of Venice | Maritime republic ruled by an elected doge, dominant in Mediterranean trade and a major Renaissance art center.
Sir Francis Drake | English privateer who circumnavigated the globe and helped defeat the Spanish Armada.
Syphilis | Sexually transmitted disease that spread rapidly through Europe after Columbus's voyages, devastating populations.
Bologna | Italian city home to Europe's oldest university, founded in 1088.
Borgia | Spanish-Italian noble family producing Pope Alexander VI and his children Cesare and Lucrezia, notorious for intrigue.
condottieri | Mercenary military captains hired by Italian city-states during the Renaissance's frequent wars.
Francis | 
Francis I of France | French Renaissance king and rival of Charles V, patron of Leonardo da Vinci, captured at the Battle of Pavia.
Siena | Tuscan city-state and rival of Florence, famed for its distinctive Gothic art and the Palio horse race.
Battle of Flodden Field | 1513 battle in which English forces killed Scotland's King James IV and much of its nobility.
Battle of Marignano | 1515 battle where Francis I's French forces defeated the Swiss during the Italian Wars.
Cesare Borgia | Ruthless son of Pope Alexander VI, a model for Machiavelli's The Prince.
Fugger | German banking dynasty that financed Habsburg emperors and dominated European high finance.
Girolamo Savonarola | Florentine friar who denounced Medici excess, ruled briefly via the "Bonfire of the Vanities," and was burned as a heretic.
Henry the Navigator | Portuguese prince who sponsored early Atlantic voyages down the African coast, launching the Age of Exploration.
John Cabot | Italian explorer sailing for England who reached North America in 1497.
John Dee | Elizabethan mathematician, astrologer, and advisor who blended science with occult study.
Medici | Florentine banking dynasty that ruled Tuscany and produced several popes, patronizing Renaissance art.
Pavia | Northern Italian city near which Charles V's forces captured Francis I of France in 1525.
Pazzi Conspiracy | 1478 failed plot by a rival Florentine family to assassinate the Medici brothers.
Revolt of the Comuneros | 1520-1521 Castilian urban revolt against the young Charles V's centralizing rule.
Vasco da Gama | Portuguese explorer who opened the first sea route from Europe to India around Africa.
War of the League of Cambrai | Early-16th-century Italian war pitting a shifting coalition of powers against the Republic of Venice.
1527 Sack of Rome | Devastating sack of Rome by mutinous Habsburg troops, effectively ending the High Renaissance there.
Ambroise Pare | French Renaissance surgeon who pioneered battlefield wound treatment and surgical instruments.
Banquet of Chestnuts | Notorious 1501 Vatican party allegedly hosted by Cesare Borgia, emblematic of Borgia-era papal scandal.
Canary Islands | Atlantic archipelago conquered by Castile, serving as a launch point for transatlantic voyages.
Council of Ten | Secretive Venetian magistracy responsible for state security and surveillance in the republic.
Desiderius Erasmus | Dutch Christian humanist scholar whose satirical and reformist writings preceded but did not join the Reformation.
Doge of Venice | Elected head of state of the Venetian Republic, holding largely ceremonial but prestigious authority.
Ferdinand Magellan | Portuguese explorer whose expedition achieved the first circumnavigation of the globe, though he died en route.
Ferrara | Italian Renaissance city-state ruled by the Este family, a noted center of art and learning.
Goa | Indian coastal territory seized by Portugal in 1510, a key Estado da India colonial hub.
Gonzaga | Italian noble family that ruled Mantua as Renaissance patrons of the arts.
House of Gonzaga | Italian noble family that ruled Mantua as Renaissance patrons of the arts.
Isabella I of Castile | Castilian queen who united Spain with Ferdinand, funded Columbus, and completed the Reconquista.
Joanna the Mad | Castilian queen whose mental instability and confinement let her father and son rule in her name.
John Zapolya | Hungarian noble who claimed the crown after Mohacs, ruling with Ottoman backing against Habsburg rivals.
League of Cognac | 1526 anti-Habsburg alliance of Italian and French powers formed against Charles V.
Leo X | Medici pope whose indulgence sales to fund St. Peter's Basilica helped provoke Luther's Reformation.
Ludovico Sforza | Milanese duke and patron of Leonardo da Vinci whose invitation of France into Italy backfired disastrously.
Mantua | Italian city-state ruled by the Gonzaga family as Renaissance patrons of the arts.
Martin Guerre | French peasant whose disputed identity case, involving an impostor claiming to be him, became a famous legal drama.
Mediterranean Sea | Central sea of trade and conflict among Venice, Genoa, the Ottomans, and Habsburg Spain.
Mimar Sinan | Ottoman chief architect under Suleiman the Magnificent, designer of the Suleymaniye Mosque.
Most Serene Republic of Venice | Formal name of Venice, the maritime republic ruled by an elected doge and dominant in Mediterranean trade.
Printing Press | Gutenberg's movable-type invention that revolutionized the spread of texts across Europe.
Sir Walter Raleigh | Elizabethan courtier, explorer, and colonizer who founded the failed Roanoke colony, later executed by James I.
The Renaissance | Cultural rebirth beginning in 14th-century Italy, reviving classical learning and transforming art and thought.

# Reformation and the Wars of Religion
> Luther, Calvin, and Zwingli's challenge to Rome, the Catholic Counter-Reformation, the French Wars of Religion, the Thirty Years' War, and Tudor-Stuart England, roughly 1500-1660.
Switzerland | Alpine confederation of cantons, home to Zwingli's and Calvin's Reformation and long-standing armed political neutrality.
The Netherlands = Netherlands | Low Countries state that won independence from Habsburg Spain in the Eighty Years' War, then flourished in its Golden Age.
Thirty Years' War = Thirty Years War | 1618-1648 conflict sparked by the Defenestration of Prague, devastating Germany before ending with the Peace of Westphalia.
Oliver Cromwell | Puritan general who led Parliament to victory in the English Civil War, had Charles I executed, and ruled as Lord Protector.
Charles V | Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain who ruled a vast empire and confronted Martin Luther at the Diet of Worms.
Kingdom of Spain | Iberian kingdom unified under Ferdinand and Isabella, a Counter-Reformation superpower under the Habsburgs before later decline.
Geneva | Swiss city that became Calvin's Protestant theocratic base, later home to the League of Nations and Red Cross.
Gustavus Adolphus | Swedish king and "Lion of the North" whose Thirty Years' War intervention revived the Protestant cause before his death at Lutzen.
Martin Luther | German monk whose Ninety-Five Theses launched the Protestant Reformation; defended his views at the Diet of Worms.
Charles II | Likely Charles II of England, the "Merry Monarch" restored to the throne in 1660 after Cromwell's Commonwealth.
Elizabeth I | Tudor queen who restored Protestantism, defeated the Spanish Armada, and presided over England's Elizabethan golden age.
Ivan the Terrible | First tsar of Russia who conquered Kazan and Astrakhan but plunged the realm into terror via the Oprichnina.
Spain | Iberian kingdom unified under Ferdinand and Isabella, a Counter-Reformation superpower under the Habsburgs before later decline.
Antwerp | Flemish port city and 16th-century commercial hub, sacked during the Dutch Revolt's "Spanish Fury."
Philip II | Likely Philip II of Spain, Habsburg king who sent the Armada against England and fought the Dutch Revolt.
Charles I | English king whose conflict with Parliament sparked the Civil War, ending in his 1649 execution.
Henry VIII | Tudor king who broke with Rome to annul his marriage, founding the Church of England; married six wives.
Huguenots | French Protestants persecuted during the Wars of Religion and after Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes.
Philip II of Spain | Habsburg king who sent the Armada against England, fought the Dutch Revolt, and defended Catholicism across Europe.
Augsburg | German city that gave its name to the 1555 religious peace and the 1530 Lutheran confession of faith.
House of Orange-Nassau | Dutch royal house descended from William the Silent, leader of the revolt against Habsburg Spain.
Magdeburg | German city notoriously sacked and largely destroyed by Catholic League forces during the Thirty Years' War.
tulips | Ottoman-origin flower whose Dutch speculative bubble in the 1630s is a famed early financial mania.
Zurich | Swiss city where Huldrych Zwingli launched the Swiss Reformation in the 1520s.
Battle of Lutzen | 1632 Thirty Years' War battle where Gustavus Adolphus's Swedish forces won but the king himself was killed.
Catherine of Aragon | First wife of Henry VIII of England, whose annulment battle precipitated England's break with Rome.
Galileo Galilei | Italian astronomer whose telescopic observations supporting Copernican heliocentrism led to his trial by the Inquisition.
John Calvin | French Protestant reformer whose theology of predestination shaped Geneva's theocracy and Reformed Christianity.
Mary, Queen of Scots | Catholic queen of Scotland executed by her cousin Elizabeth I after implication in plots against her.
Spanish Inquisition | Church-state tribunal founded by Ferdinand and Isabella to enforce Catholic orthodoxy, targeting conversos and Moriscos.
William the Silent | Founder of Dutch independence who led the revolt against Habsburg Spain before his assassination in 1584.
Amsterdam | Dutch trading capital that flourished during the 17th-century Golden Age, home to the first stock exchange.
Anabaptists | Radical Reformation movement rejecting infant baptism, notorious for the violent Munster Rebellion of the 1530s.
Edward VI | Boy king of England, Henry VIII's son, whose short reign pushed the Church of England toward Protestantism.
Ferdinand II | Likely the Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor whose Counter-Reformation zeal helped ignite the Thirty Years' War.
German Peasants' War | 1524-1525 mass uprising of German peasants demanding social and religious reform, brutally suppressed; condemned by Luther.
House of Vasa | Swedish royal dynasty founded by Gustav Vasa, which also ruled Poland-Lithuania for a time.
Jesuits | Catholic religious order founded by Ignatius of Loyola, central to the Counter-Reformation and global missionary work.
Moriscos | Spanish Muslims forcibly converted to Christianity, later expelled from Spain in the early 17th century.
Pilgrimage of Grace | 1536 popular uprising in northern England against Henry VIII's dissolution of the monasteries.
Roman Catholic Church | Western Christian church whose authority was challenged by the Reformation and reasserted at the Council of Trent.
Spanish Armada | 1588 fleet sent by Philip II of Spain to invade England, defeated by English ships and storms.
Vasa | Swedish royal dynasty founded by Gustav Vasa, which also ruled Poland-Lithuania for a time.
Battle of White Mountain | 1620 battle opening the Thirty Years' War, where Catholic forces crushed Bohemian Protestant rebels near Prague.
Edict of Nantes | 1598 decree by Henry IV granting Huguenots religious toleration, later revoked by Louis XIV in 1685.
English Civil War | 1642-1651 conflict between Parliament and Charles I, resulting in the king's execution and Cromwell's Commonwealth.
Henry Ireton | Parliamentarian general and Cromwell's son-in-law, a key figure in the Putney Debates and Charles I's trial.
Henry IV of France | First Bourbon king who ended the Wars of Religion with the Edict of Nantes after converting to Catholicism.
John Knox | Firebrand Scottish reformer who founded Presbyterianism and clashed fiercely with Mary, Queen of Scots.
Levellers | Radical English Civil War-era movement demanding expanded suffrage and legal equality, voiced in the Putney Debates.
Mary I | Catholic Tudor queen called "Bloody Mary" for burning Protestants while trying to reverse England's Reformation.
Peace of Westphalia | 1648 treaties ending the Thirty Years' War, establishing state sovereignty and religious settlement in the Holy Roman Empire.
Seville | Andalusian city that monopolized Spain's American trade through its Casa de Contratacion.
Strasbourg | Alsatian city and early Reformation center, later contested between France and Germany for centuries.
War of the Rough Wooing | 1540s English military campaign to force a marriage alliance with Mary, Queen of Scots.
Worms | German city where Martin Luther defended his teachings before Charles V at the 1521 Diet.
Anne Boleyn | Second wife of Henry VIII, whose marriage prompted England's break with Rome; executed on adultery charges.
Battle of Naseby | 1645 decisive Parliamentarian victory over Charles I's forces in the English Civil War.
Catherine de' Medici | Florentine-born French queen mother who shaped policy during the Wars of Religion, blamed for the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre.
Lady Jane Grey | England's "Nine Days' Queen," installed to block Catholic Mary I's accession and later executed.
Leiden | Dutch university city that withstood a famous Spanish siege during the Eighty Years' War.
Madrid | Spanish capital established by Philip II, seat of the Habsburg and later Bourbon monarchy.
Nantes | French city that gave its name to Henry IV's 1598 edict of religious toleration.
Roman Catholicism | Western Christian faith whose authority was challenged by the Reformation and reasserted at the Council of Trent.
St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre | 1572 mass killing of Huguenots in Paris, ordered amid the French Wars of Religion.
Thomas Cranmer | Archbishop of Canterbury who shaped the English Reformation, burned at the stake under Mary I.
Affair of the Placards | 1534 Protestant anti-Catholic poster campaign in France that triggered a harsh royal crackdown.
Breda | Dutch city whose sieges were pivotal in the Eighty Years' War against Spain.
Cadiz | Spanish Atlantic port, target of Sir Francis Drake's 1587 raid and a base for New World trade.
Catholics | 
Christian IV | Danish king whose intervention in the Thirty Years' War ended in defeat by Catholic forces.
Council of Trent | 1545-1563 Catholic council that defined Counter-Reformation doctrine against Protestant challenges.
Eighty Years' War | 1568-1648 Dutch revolt against Habsburg Spain, ending in recognized independence at Westphalia.
George Villiers, 1st Duke of Buckingham | Favorite of James I and Charles I whose disastrous foreign policy led to his 1628 assassination.
Huldrych Zwingli | Swiss reformer who launched Zurich's Reformation, dying in battle against Catholic cantons.
James I | First Stuart king of England, also James VI of Scotland, who commissioned the King James Bible.
James I of England | First Stuart king of England, also James VI of Scotland, who commissioned the King James Bible.
Jesuit Order | Catholic religious order founded by Ignatius of Loyola, central to the Counter-Reformation and global missions.
John Foxe | English author of the Book of Martyrs, chronicling Protestants persecuted under Mary I.
John Lambert | Parliamentarian general during the English Civil War who helped topple the Rump Parliament.
La Rochelle | French Huguenot stronghold besieged and starved into surrender by Cardinal Richelieu in 1628.
Munster | German city seized by radical Anabaptists in the 1530s before a brutal siege crushed their theocracy.
New Model Army | Parliamentarian force reorganized by Cromwell that won the English Civil War.
Paracelsus | Swiss-German Renaissance physician who pioneered chemical medicine, rejecting classical medical authority.
Philip IV of Spain | Habsburg king whose long reign saw Spain's continued decline despite Velazquez's court patronage.
Queen Christina | Swedish monarch who abdicated and converted to Catholicism, ending direct Vasa succession.
Ridolfi Plot | 1571 failed conspiracy to assassinate Elizabeth I and install Mary, Queen of Scots.
Rump Parliament | English Parliament remnant that tried and executed Charles I after Pride's Purge.
stadtholder | Chief executive office of the Dutch Republic, typically held by a Prince of Orange.
the Diggers | Radical English Civil War-era agrarian communists who occupied common land for collective farming.
War of the Three Henrys | Phase of the French Wars of Religion pitting Henry III, Henry of Navarre, and Henry of Guise against each other.
Battle of Breitenfeld | 1631 Thirty Years' War battle in which Gustavus Adolphus's Swedish army won a major Protestant victory.
Battle of Edgehill | 1642 inconclusive first major battle of the English Civil War.
Battle of Nordlingen | 1634 Thirty Years' War battle in which Habsburg forces crushed the Swedish army.
Book of Common Prayer | Standard Anglican liturgy compiled by Thomas Cranmer during the English Reformation.
Cardinal Thomas Wolsey | Henry VIII's powerful chief minister whose failure to secure the king's annulment led to his downfall.
Charles II of England | English "Merry Monarch" restored to the throne in 1660 after Cromwell's Commonwealth.
Christina | 
dissolution of the monasteries | Henry VIII's 1536-1541 seizure and closure of England's monastic institutions and wealth.
Duke of Alba | Spanish general whose brutal repression as governor of the Netherlands helped ignite the Dutch Revolt.
Duke of Medina-Sidonia | Spanish nobleman who commanded the ill-fated Armada against England in 1588.
Dutch Republic | Low Countries state that won independence from Habsburg Spain in the Eighty Years' War, then flourished in its Golden Age.
Edict of Restitution | 1629 Habsburg decree reclaiming Protestant-secularized Church lands, intensifying the Thirty Years' War.
Edward Coke | English jurist who championed common law supremacy over royal prerogative under James I and Charles I.
Elizabeth | 
Elizabeth I of England | Tudor queen who restored Protestantism, defeated the Spanish Armada, and presided over England's Elizabethan golden age.
Francois Ravaillac | Catholic fanatic who assassinated Henry IV of France in 1610.
Gaspar de Guzman, Count-Duke of Olivares | Chief minister to Philip IV of Spain who tried and failed to reverse Spain's imperial decline.
Gerardus Mercator | Flemish cartographer whose 1569 map projection remains the standard for world maps.
Gunpowder Plot | 1605 failed Catholic conspiracy led by Guy Fawkes to blow up England's Parliament and King James I.
Guy Fawkes | Catholic conspirator caught guarding explosives in the failed 1605 Gunpowder Plot against Parliament.
Henry II of France | French king killed in a jousting accident, whose death began decades of Wars of Religion under his sons.
Hugo Grotius | Dutch jurist regarded as the father of international law, author of On the Law of War and Peace.
Instrument of Government | 1653 written constitution establishing Oliver Cromwell as Lord Protector of England.
Mary I of England | Catholic Tudor queen called "Bloody Mary" for burning Protestants while trying to reverse England's Reformation.
Maurice of Nassau | Dutch stadtholder and military reformer who professionalized the army during the Eighty Years' War.
Putney Debates | 1647 discussions among Cromwell's New Model Army over suffrage and England's future constitution.
Schmalkaldic League | Alliance of Protestant German princes formed to defend against Charles V's Catholic forces.
Thomas Muntzer | Radical German Reformation preacher who led peasants in the German Peasants' War, executed after defeat.
Tudor dynasty | English royal house from Henry VII through Elizabeth I, spanning the Reformation and Renaissance.
Villmergen | Site of two 17th-18th-century wars between Swiss Catholic and Protestant cantons.
William Laud | Archbishop of Canterbury whose High Church reforms under Charles I provoked Puritan and Scottish opposition.

# Absolutism and the Early Modern State
> Louis XIV's France, the rise of Russia, Prussia, and the Habsburg and Ottoman empires, the English constitutional struggles, the Dutch Golden Age, and the Enlightenment, roughly 1650-1789.
France | Western European kingdom of the Capetians and Bourbons, dominant under Louis XIV, later transformed by revolution and Napoleon.
Sweden | Scandinavian kingdom that was a Baltic great power under Gustavus Adolphus and Charles XII before turning to neutrality.
Catherine the Great | German-born Russian empress who expanded the empire, partitioned Poland, and patronized the Enlightenment after deposing her husband Peter III.
Louis XIV | "Sun King" of France whose long reign at Versailles epitomized absolutist monarchy; fought the War of the Spanish Succession.
Kingdom of Sweden | Baltic great power under Gustavus Adolphus and Charles XII, later reduced by defeat in the Great Northern War.
Peter the Great | Russian tsar who westernized Russia, founded St. Petersburg, and defeated Sweden in the Great Northern War.
Vienna | Habsburg capital that survived Ottoman sieges in 1529 and 1683 and hosted the 1815 congress redrawing post-Napoleonic Europe.
Denmark | Scandinavian kingdom long allied with Norway, later losing Schleswig-Holstein to Prussia and Norway to Sweden.
London | England's capital since Roman times, devastated by the Great Fire of 1666; seat of Parliament and the monarchy.
Cossacks | Semi-autonomous warrior communities of the Russian and Ukrainian steppe frontier, led by figures like Bohdan Khmelnytsky.
Great Northern War | 1700-1721 war in which Peter the Great's Russia broke Swedish dominance of the Baltic under Charles XII.
Glorious Revolution = The Glorious Revolution | 1688 overthrow of James II by William III and Mary II, cementing Parliamentary supremacy in England.
Time of Troubles | Early-17th-century Russian succession crisis and foreign invasion following Tsar Feodor I's death, ended by the Romanovs' rise.
War of the Spanish Succession | 1701-1714 war over the vacant Spanish throne, pitting France against a European coalition; ended by the Treaty of Utrecht.
Louis XV | French Bourbon king whose long, indecisive reign preceded his grandson Louis XVI and the Revolution.
Moscow | Russian capital that rose under Ivan the Terrible, briefly displaced by St. Petersburg, and burned during Napoleon's 1812 invasion.
Austria | Central European Habsburg heartland, an imperial and Counter-Reformation power that later formed Austria-Hungary.
Frederick the Great | Prussian king who built Prussia into a great power, seizing Silesia and fighting the Seven Years' War.
House of Habsburg | European dynasty ruling Austria, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire for centuries, ending with Austria-Hungary's 1918 collapse.
Maria Theresa | Habsburg empress who fought the War of the Austrian Succession and Seven Years' War, mother of Marie-Antoinette.
Charles XII | Warrior king of Sweden defeated by Peter the Great's Russia at Poltava during the Great Northern War.
James II of England | Catholic English king deposed in the 1688 Glorious Revolution by William III and Mary II.
Joseph II | Habsburg "Enlightened despot" emperor who abolished serfdom and expanded religious toleration in his reforms.
Russia | Eastern European and Eurasian state built by the Rurikid and Romanov dynasties, modernized under Peter the Great.
Russian Empire | Tsarist state proclaimed by Peter the Great in 1721, expanding across Eurasia until its 1917 collapse.
szlachta | Polish-Lithuanian noble class that dominated politics through the elective monarchy and liberum veto.
War of the Austrian Succession | 1740-1748 war sparked by Frederick the Great's seizure of Silesia from Maria Theresa's Habsburg realm.
Augustus the Strong | Elector of Saxony and King of Poland known for his extravagant Dresden court and numerous illegitimate children.
Ivan | 
Kingdom of Denmark | Scandinavian kingdom long allied with Norway, later losing Schleswig-Holstein to Prussia and Norway to Sweden.
Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth | Vast elective union of Poland and Lithuania governed by the nobility, eventually partitioned out of existence by 1795.
Baltic Sea | Northern European sea contested by Sweden, Denmark, and Russia, especially during the Great Northern War.
boyars | Highest-ranking Russian and Slavic feudal nobility, whose power was curtailed by Ivan the Terrible and Peter the Great.
House of Bourbon | French royal dynasty beginning with Henry IV, ruling until the Revolution and later restored branches in Spain.
Kazan | Volga khanate capital conquered by Ivan the Terrible in 1552, ending Tatar rule of the middle Volga.
Maria Theresa Walburga Amalia Christina | Full name of Maria Theresa, Habsburg empress who fought the War of the Austrian Succession and Seven Years' War.
Robert Walpole | Whig statesman often considered Britain's first prime minister, dominating politics under George I and II.
Sejm | Polish parliament dominated by the nobility, whose liberum veto often paralyzed governance before the partitions.
Siberia | Vast Russian territory settled and exploited from the 16th century onward, later a site of tsarist and Soviet exile.
Voltaire | French Enlightenment philosopher known for advocating civil liberties and religious tolerance and for his wit.
1755 Lisbon Earthquake | Catastrophic earthquake, tsunami, and fires that devastated Lisbon, shaping Enlightenment debate on divine providence.
Copenhagen | Danish capital, bombarded by the British navy in 1807 during the Napoleonic Wars.
Frederick William | Likely the "Great Elector" of Brandenburg who rebuilt Prussia after the Thirty Years' War.
Gibraltar | British-held peninsula at Spain's tip, captured during the War of the Spanish Succession and long disputed since.
Prince Eugene of Savoy | Habsburg general who defeated the Ottomans at Zenta and the French in the War of the Spanish Succession.
Prussia | North German militarized state built by the Hohenzollerns, which spearheaded 19th-century German unification.
Russian Orthodox Church | Eastern Orthodox church of Russia, subordinated to the state under Peter the Great and persecuted under Soviet rule.
Seven Years' War | 1756-1763 global conflict pitting Britain and Prussia against France, Austria, and Russia.
Stockholm | Swedish capital, seat of the Vasa monarchy during Sweden's era as a Baltic great power.
the Fronde | Mid-17th-century French noble and parliamentary revolts against royal authority during Louis XIV's minority.
Alexander | 
American Revolutionary War | 1775-1783 war in which American colonists, aided by France, won independence from Britain.
Battle of the Boyne | 1690 battle in which William III defeated the deposed James II in Ireland, cementing Protestant rule.
Cardinal Richelieu | Chief minister to Louis XIII who centralized French royal power and steered France into the Thirty Years' War.
Christian | 
Danube River | Major Central European river bordering the Habsburg and Ottoman realms, a frequent military frontier.
Duchy of Courland and Semigallia | Baltic vassal duchy of Poland-Lithuania that briefly held colonies in Africa and the Caribbean.
Kingdom of Prussia | North German militarized state built by the Hohenzollerns, which spearheaded 19th-century German unification.
Leopold | 
Nine Years' War | 1688-1697 European coalition war against Louis XIV's expansionist France.
Old Believers | Russian Orthodox traditionalists who rejected Patriarch Nikon's 17th-century liturgical reforms, facing persecution.
Poland-Lithuania | Vast elective union of Poland and Lithuania governed by the nobility, eventually partitioned out of existence by 1795.
Sigismund III Vasa | Polish-Lithuanian and Swedish king whose Catholic ambitions led to conflict with Protestant Sweden.
South Sea Bubble | 1720 British stock speculation collapse tied to the South Sea Company, ruining many investors.
South Sea Company | British trading company whose speculative stock collapse caused the 1720 South Sea Bubble crisis.
Table of Ranks | Peter the Great's 1722 system ranking Russian civil, military, and court positions by merit-based hierarchy.
Treaty of Karlowitz | 1699 treaty ending Ottoman wars with the Habsburgs, ceding Hungary and Transylvania to Austria.
Volga River | Europe's longest river, a key Russian trade artery and site of the decisive Battle of Stalingrad.
Alexander Suvorov | Undefeated Russian generalissimo of the late 18th century, famed for campaigns against the Ottomans and French.
Anne | 
Astrakhan | Volga delta khanate conquered by Ivan the Terrible in 1556, securing Russian access to the Caspian Sea.
Battle of Blenheim | 1704 battle in which Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy crushed French and Bavarian forces.
Battle of Gangut | 1714 naval battle, Russia's first major fleet victory, over Sweden during the Great Northern War.
Battle of Zenta | 1697 battle in which Prince Eugene of Savoy crushed the Ottomans, ending the Great Turkish War.
British East India Company | Chartered English trading company that came to rule much of India before the crown took direct control.
Cardinal Jules Mazarin | Chief minister to the young Louis XIV who suppressed the Fronde and continued Richelieu's centralizing policies.
Circassians | North Caucasus people largely expelled by Russia in the 19th century in a mass exodus and massacre.
Elizabeth of Russia | Russian empress, daughter of Peter the Great, who fought Prussia in the Seven Years' War.
False Dmitrys | Impostors claiming to be Ivan the Terrible's dead son during Russia's Time of Troubles.
Great Fire of London | 1666 blaze that destroyed much of medieval London, prompting Christopher Wren's rebuilding.
Jacobite risings | 18th-century rebellions seeking to restore the exiled Stuart line to the British throne.
James II | Catholic English king deposed in the 1688 Glorious Revolution by William III and Mary II.
Joseph Priestley | English Enlightenment scientist and dissenting minister who discovered oxygen and supported the French Revolution.
Leopold I | Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor who repelled the Ottoman siege of Vienna in 1683.
Livonian War | 1558-1583 war in which Ivan the Terrible's Russia fought Poland-Lithuania and Sweden for Baltic control.
Margaret | 
Mississippi Bubble | 1720 French speculative collapse tied to John Law's paper-money and colonial trading scheme.
Monmouth rebellion | 1685 failed uprising by the Duke of Monmouth against Catholic King James II.
Orlov | Russian noble family, including Catherine the Great's favorite, who helped bring her to power.
parlements | French regional judicial courts that resisted royal reforms, contributing to prerevolutionary crisis.
Partitions of Poland | Three late-18th-century divisions of Poland-Lithuania among Russia, Prussia, and Austria, erasing the state.
Paul | 
Peter | 
Pitt | 
Pragmatic Sanction of 1713 | Habsburg decree by Charles VI allowing his daughter Maria Theresa to inherit, sparking a succession war.
Quebec | French colonial settlement in North America, ceded to Britain after the Seven Years' War.
Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford | Whig statesman often considered Britain's first prime minister, dominating politics under George I and II.
Samuel Pepys | English diarist whose vivid firsthand accounts cover the Restoration, the plague, and the Great Fire of London.
Silesia | Central European region seized by Frederick the Great from Maria Theresa, sparking two 18th-century wars.
War of the Grand Alliance | 1688-1697 European coalition war against Louis XIV's expansionist France, also called the Nine Years' War.
William Pitt the Younger | Young British prime minister who led the country against Revolutionary and Napoleonic France.
Yemelyan Pugachev | Cossack leader of a massive 1773-1775 peasant rebellion against Catherine the Great, claiming to be Peter III.
1660s | 
Affair of the Poisons | 1670s French court scandal over poisoning and black magic accusations under Louis XIV.
Arkhangelsk | Russia's chief northern port before St. Petersburg's founding, a key window to Western trade.
Battle of Fontenoy | 1745 French victory over British-led forces during the War of the Austrian Succession.
Battle of Klushino | 1610 battle in which Polish forces routed a larger Russian-Swedish army during the Time of Troubles.
Battle of Malplaquet | 1709 costly Pyrrhic allied victory over France during the War of the Spanish Succession.
Battle of Poltava | 1709 decisive Russian victory over Charles XII's Sweden, ending Swedish great-power status.
Battle of Prestonpans | 1745 Jacobite victory over government forces early in the Forty-Five rising.
Battle of Ramillies | 1706 Marlborough victory over France during the War of the Spanish Succession.
Battle of the Dunes | 1658 battle in which French and English Commonwealth forces defeated Spain near Dunkirk.
Black Sea | Sea bordered by Russia and the Ottoman Empire, a frequent zone of imperial rivalry.
Blenheim Palace | Grand English residence given to the Duke of Marlborough for his 1704 victory, birthplace of Churchill.
Catherine | 
Charles VI | Habsburg Holy Roman Emperor whose Pragmatic Sanction secured his daughter Maria Theresa's succession.
Duke of Marlborough | English general John Churchill who won decisive victories over France in the War of the Spanish Succession.
Edict of Fontainebleau | 1685 decree by Louis XIV revoking the Edict of Nantes, outlawing Protestantism in France.
Edmund Burke | Irish-British statesman and philosopher whose critique of the French Revolution founded modern conservatism.
Empress Elizabeth | Russian empress, daughter of Peter the Great, who fought Prussia in the Seven Years' War.
Eugene of Savoy | Habsburg general who defeated the Ottomans at Zenta and the French in the War of the Spanish Succession.
Franco-Dutch War | 1672-1678 war in which Louis XIV's France attacked the Dutch Republic, opening the dikes to survive.
Furstenbund | 1785 league of German princes organized by Prussia to check Habsburg expansion.
George I | First Hanoverian king of Great Britain, whose limited English fluency strengthened parliamentary government.
George II | Hanoverian king who personally led troops at Dettingen, the last British monarch to do so in battle.
Gustav | 
Gustav III | Swedish king who seized absolute power in a 1772 coup and was later assassinated at a masked ball.
Habsburg dynasty | European dynasty ruling Austria, Spain, and the Holy Roman Empire for centuries, ending with Austria-Hungary's 1918 collapse.
House of Hohenzollern | German dynasty that ruled Brandenburg-Prussia and later the unified German Empire until 1918.
House of Romanov | Russian imperial dynasty founded in 1613, ruling until the 1917 Revolution executed the last tsar's family.
Imperial Russian Navy | Fleet founded by Peter the Great, later devastated in defeats like Tsushima during the Russo-Japanese War.
Innocent X | Pope during the Thirty Years' War's end, who denounced the Peace of Westphalia's religious concessions.
James Cook | British naval explorer who charted the Pacific and mapped Australia and New Zealand's coastlines.
Johan de Witt | Dutch Republic statesman lynched by a mob amid the 1672 crisis year during war with France.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe | German writer and polymath of the Sturm und Drang and Weimar Classicism, author of Faust.
John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough | English general who won decisive victories over France in the War of the Spanish Succession.
John Law | Scottish financier whose paper-money and colonial trading scheme caused France's Mississippi Bubble collapse.
John Paul Jones | Scottish-born naval commander for the American Revolution who later served in the Russian navy.
Khanate of Kazan | Volga khanate capital conquered by Ivan the Terrible in 1552, ending Tatar rule of the middle Volga.
Konigsberg | Prussian capital and Kant's home city, later renamed Kaliningrad after Soviet annexation.
Louis XIII | French Bourbon king whose reign was dominated by his powerful minister Cardinal Richelieu.
Louis XIV of France | "Sun King" of France whose long reign at Versailles epitomized absolutist monarchy.
Marquis of Pombal | Powerful Portuguese chief minister who rebuilt Lisbon after the 1755 earthquake and centralized royal authority.
Masaniello | Neapolitan fisherman who led a brief 1647 popular revolt against Spanish Habsburg rule.
Michiel de Ruyter | Dutch admiral whose daring raid up the Medway humiliated the English navy in 1667.
Minorca | Balearic island repeatedly contested between Britain and Spain in 18th-century wars.
Oprichnina | Ivan the Terrible's private police-state apparatus used to terrorize and purge the Russian nobility.
Pale of Settlement | Region of the Russian Empire where Jews were legally permitted permanent residence, a site of pogroms.
Paul I | Russian tsar, son of Catherine the Great, assassinated in a palace coup after an erratic reign.
Peter III | Short-reigning Russian tsar deposed and killed in a coup that brought his wife Catherine the Great to power.
Queen Anne | Last Stuart monarch, under whom England and Scotland formally united into Great Britain in 1707.
Queen Anne I | Last Stuart monarch, under whom England and Scotland formally united into Great Britain in 1707.
Russian | 
Rye House Plot | 1683 failed conspiracy to assassinate Charles II and his brother James on their way from Newmarket.
Saint Petersburg | Russian capital founded by Peter the Great as a "window to the West" on the Baltic.
Scania | Southern Swedish province, formerly Danish, ceded to Sweden after the 1658 Treaty of Roskilde.
Sebastien Le Prestre de Vauban | French military engineer whose star-shaped fortifications and siege methods defined Louis XIV's wars.
St. Petersburg | Russian capital founded by Peter the Great as a "window to the West" on the Baltic.
Star Chamber | English royal court known for arbitrary rulings, abolished by Parliament in 1641 amid tensions with Charles I.
Stephen Bathory | Transylvanian noble elected King of Poland, noted for military reforms and wars against Ivan the Terrible's Russia.
Whigs | British political faction favoring parliamentary power and Protestant succession, precursor to the Liberal Party.
William Bligh | British naval officer whose harsh command provoked the famous 1789 mutiny on the Bounty.

# Revolution and Napoleonic Europe
> The French Revolution, the Napoleonic Wars, and the Congress of Vienna's settlement, 1789-1815.
Paris | French capital, site of the Bastille's storming, the 1871 Commune, and the 1919 peace conference.
Napoleon Bonaparte | Corsican-born general who seized power in France, crowned himself emperor, and conquered much of Europe before defeat at Waterloo.
Alexander I | Russian tsar who defeated Napoleon's invasion of Russia and helped shape the Congress of Vienna settlement.
Battle of Waterloo | 1815 battle in which Wellington and Blucher's allied forces decisively defeated Napoleon, ending his Hundred Days.
Corsica | Mediterranean island, birthplace of Napoleon Bonaparte, ceded by Genoa to France in 1768.
Congress of Vienna | 1814-1815 conference led by Metternich that redrew Europe's map and restored balance of power after Napoleon.
Louis XVI | French Bourbon king executed by guillotine during the Revolution after his flight to Varennes failed.
Peninsular War | 1808-1814 conflict in Spain and Portugal where guerrilla and British forces under Wellington bled Napoleon's empire.
Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington | British general who defeated Napoleon at Waterloo after leading the Peninsular War campaign.
Battle of Leipzig | 1813 "Battle of the Nations," in which allied forces decisively defeated Napoleon in Germany.
Jacques Necker | Louis XVI's finance minister whose dismissal helped spark the storming of the Bastille.
The Directory = Directory | French Revolutionary government (1795-1799) that succeeded the Terror, ended by Napoleon's Brumaire coup.
Battle of Austerlitz | 1805 "Battle of the Three Emperors," Napoleon's decisive victory over Austria and Russia.
Marie-Antoinette | Austrian-born French queen guillotined during the Revolution, target of the earlier Diamond Necklace scandal.
Battle of Valmy | 1792 battle in which French revolutionary forces halted a Prussian-Austrian invasion, saving the young Republic.
Bonaparte | Corsican family name of Napoleon, whose members ruled France and several client states of his empire.
Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Perigord | Adaptable French statesman who served through the Revolution, Napoleon, and the Congress of Vienna.
Confederation of the Rhine | Napoleon's client-state league of German territories, replacing the dissolved Holy Roman Empire.
Maximilien Robespierre | Radical Jacobin leader of the Reign of Terror, guillotined after his own downfall in 1794.
Napoleon I Bonaparte | Corsican-born general who crowned himself French emperor and conquered much of Europe before defeat at Waterloo.
Olympe de Gouges | French playwright and activist who wrote the Declaration of the Rights of Woman during the Revolution, later guillotined.
the French Revolution = French Revolution | 1789-1799 upheaval that overthrew the Bourbon monarchy, executed Louis XVI, and radicalized into the Terror.
Arthur Wellesley | British general and Duke of Wellington who defeated Napoleon at Waterloo after the Peninsular War.
Battle of Borodino | 1812 bloody battle outside Moscow during Napoleon's disastrous invasion of Russia.
Joseph Bonaparte | Napoleon's elder brother, installed as king of Naples and then Spain during the Napoleonic Wars.
Lord Castlereagh | British foreign secretary who helped defeat Napoleon and shape the Congress of Vienna settlement.
Manuel de Godoy | Spanish chief minister whose alliance with Napoleon led to the Peninsular War and his own downfall.
Napoleonic Code | 1804 legal code enacted by Napoleon, standardizing French civil law and spreading across his empire.
Affair of the Diamond Necklace | 1780s French court scandal implicating Marie-Antoinette's reputation, fueling prerevolutionary discontent.
Alexander I of Russia | Russian tsar who defeated Napoleon's invasion of Russia and helped shape the Congress of Vienna settlement.
Batavian Republic | French client state established in the Netherlands after a 1795 revolutionary invasion.
Battle of Trafalgar | 1805 naval battle in which Nelson's fleet destroyed the combined French-Spanish navy, securing British naval dominance.
Committee of Public Safety | French Revolutionary body led by Robespierre that directed the Terror's executions.
Coup of 18 Brumaire | 1799 coup in which Napoleon overthrew the Directory, becoming First Consul of France.
Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette | French aristocrat and hero of the American Revolution who also played a moderating role in the French Revolution.
Gracchus Babeuf | French radical whose "Conspiracy of Equals" during the Directory sought a proto-communist uprising.
guillotine | Execution device adopted during the French Revolution, symbol of the Terror's mass beheadings.
Helvetic Republic | French client state imposed on Switzerland after Napoleon's 1798 invasion, replacing the old confederation.
House of Bonaparte | Corsican family name of Napoleon, whose members ruled France and several client states of his empire.
levee en masse | 1793 French Revolutionary decree conscripting the entire nation for war, mobilizing mass citizen armies.
Saint Helena | Remote South Atlantic island where Napoleon was exiled after Waterloo, dying there in 1821.
storming of the Bastille | July 14, 1789 seizure of the Parisian fortress-prison, symbolic beginning of the French Revolution.
The Bastille | Parisian fortress-prison whose storming on July 14, 1789 symbolically began the French Revolution.
The Vendee | French region whose royalist Catholic peasants rose in a brutal counter-revolutionary revolt during the Terror.
Thermidor | 1794 coup that overthrew and executed Robespierre, ending the French Revolution's Terror phase.
Treaty of Campo-Formio | 1797 treaty in which Napoleon ended the War of the First Coalition, partitioning Venice's territory.
Treaty of Kiel | 1814 treaty ceding Norway from Denmark to Sweden following the Napoleonic Wars.
War in the Vendee | French region whose royalist Catholic peasants rose in a brutal counter-revolutionary revolt during the Terror.

# Nationalism and Reform in Nineteenth-Century Europe
> Italian and German unification, the revolutions of 1848, Balkan nationalism and Ottoman decline, British and Irish political reform, and the Industrial Revolution, 1815-1914.
Greece | Balkan nation that won independence from the Ottomans in the 1820s, building on ancient and Byzantine heritage.
Italy | Peninsula unified in the Risorgimento under Cavour, Garibaldi, and Victor Emmanuel II after centuries of division.
Romania | Balkan nation formed from Wallachia and Moldavia in the 19th century, later ruled by Ceausescu's Communist dictatorship.
Bulgaria | Balkan nation that won autonomy from the Ottomans in 1878, later a Communist ally of the Soviet Union.
Ottoman Empire | Islamic empire founded by Osman I that conquered Constantinople in 1453 and ruled the Balkans until its collapse after World War I.
Ireland | Island whose 19th-century Home Rule movement and 1916 Easter Rising led to independence from Britain in 1922.
Otto von Bismarck | Prussian "Iron Chancellor" who unified Germany through three wars and later founded its welfare state.
Crimean War | 1853-1856 war in which Britain, France, and the Ottomans defeated Russia; noted for Florence Nightingale.
1848 | Year of liberal and nationalist revolutions across France, the German states, Austria, and Italy, mostly crushed by year's end.
Belgium | Low Countries kingdom that won independence from the Netherlands in 1830; invaded by Germany in both World Wars.
Kingdom of Belgium | Formal name of Belgium, created in the 1830 revolution against Dutch rule under King Leopold I.
Franco-Prussian War | 1870-1871 war in which Prussia defeated France, completing German unification and toppling Napoleon III.
Germany | Central European nation unified by Bismarck in 1871, later responsible for both World Wars before postwar reunification.
Napoleon III | Nephew of Napoleon I who ruled France's Second Empire, modernized Paris, and was captured at Sedan in 1870.
Nicholas I | Reactionary Russian tsar who crushed the Decembrist revolt and led Russia into the disastrous Crimean War.
Pius IX | Longest-reigning pope, who lost the Papal States to Italian unification and convened the First Vatican Council.
Alexander II | Russian tsar who emancipated the serfs in 1861 and was assassinated by revolutionaries in 1881.
Giuseppe Garibaldi | Italian revolutionary general whose Expedition of the Thousand helped unify Italy under Victor Emmanuel II.
Greek War of Independence | 1821-1830 uprising that won Greek independence from Ottoman rule with British, French, and Russian support.
Austria-Hungary | Dual monarchy formed by the 1867 Ausgleich, uniting Habsburg Austria and Hungary until its 1918 collapse.
George IV | British king known for extravagance, who served as Prince Regent for his mentally ill father George III.
Louis Philippe I | France's "Citizen King," installed after the 1830 July Revolution and overthrown himself in 1848.
Manchester | English industrial city, hub of the cotton textile boom and site of the 1819 Peterloo Massacre.
Decembrist revolt | 1825 uprising by liberal Russian army officers against Tsar Nicholas I's accession, crushed and its leaders executed.
Lajos Kossuth | Hungarian statesman who led the 1848-1849 revolution and war of independence against Habsburg rule.
Lord Palmerston | British foreign secretary and prime minister known for assertive gunboat diplomacy in the mid-19th century.
Peterloo massacre | 1819 killing of protesters by cavalry at a Manchester rally for parliamentary reform.
Battle of Sedan | 1870 battle in which Prussia captured Napoleon III, deciding the Franco-Prussian War.
George III | Long-reigning British king who lost the American colonies and suffered recurring bouts of mental illness.
Junkers | Prussian landed aristocracy that dominated the military and civil service, backbone of Bismarck's conservative state.
William Ewart Gladstone | Liberal British prime minister four times over, champion of Irish Home Rule and free trade.
Carlists | Spanish traditionalist faction backing a rival royal line, fighting several 19th-century civil wars against liberal Spain.
Chartism | British working-class movement of the 1830s-40s demanding suffrage reform via the People's Charter.
Daniel O'Connell | Irish "Liberator" who campaigned peacefully for Catholic emancipation and repeal of the Union with Britain.
Kingdom of the Netherlands = The Kingdom of the Netherlands | Modern Dutch state formed after Napoleon's defeat, losing Belgium to an 1830 revolution.
Klemens von Metternich | Austrian statesman who dominated the Congress of Vienna and championed conservative reaction until ousted in 1848.
Sinn Fein | Irish republican party founded in the early 20th century, associated with the independence movement and later the IRA.
Bedchamber crisis | 1839 British political dispute over Queen Victoria's ladies-in-waiting that stalled a change of government.
Charles Stewart Parnell | Irish nationalist leader who championed Home Rule until scandal over his affair ended his career.
Charles X | Reactionary French Bourbon king overthrown in the 1830 July Revolution.
Dublin | Irish capital, site of the 1916 Easter Rising against British rule.
Florence Nightingale | British nursing pioneer who reformed battlefield medical care during the Crimean War.
Giuseppe Mazzini | Italian nationalist theorist and revolutionary who founded Young Italy and inspired the Risorgimento's republican wing.
Irish Home Rule | Late-19th-century movement for Irish self-government within the UK, championed by Parnell and Gladstone.
Irish Potato Famine | 1840s famine caused by potato blight that killed roughly a million and drove mass emigration from Ireland.
John Snow | British physician who traced a London cholera outbreak to a contaminated water pump, founding epidemiology.
Luddites | Early-19th-century English textile workers who destroyed machinery in protest of industrial job losses.
Paris Commune | 1871 radical socialist government that briefly ruled Paris after France's defeat by Prussia, crushed violently.
Robert Peel | British prime minister who founded the modern police force and repealed the protectionist Corn Laws.
Alfred Dreyfus | French Jewish army officer wrongly convicted of treason, whose case exposed deep antisemitism in the 1890s.
Birmingham | English industrial city, a manufacturing hub central to the Industrial Revolution.
Franz Joseph I | Long-reigning Austro-Hungarian emperor who ruled through the 1867 Ausgleich until his death in 1916.
Glasgow | Scottish industrial city and major shipbuilding center during the Industrial Revolution.
Greek independence | 1821-1830 struggle in which Greece won freedom from Ottoman rule with European support.
House of Savoy | Italian royal dynasty that led unification under Victor Emmanuel II, ruling Italy until the 1946 republic.
Leopold II | Belgian king whose brutal personal exploitation of the Congo Free State caused immense atrocities.
Luxembourg | Small Grand Duchy whose independence and neutrality were guaranteed by 19th-century European treaties.
Megali Idea | Greek irredentist vision of uniting all Greek-inhabited lands, driving foreign policy from independence through the 1920s.
Morocco | North African sultanate whose contested status sparked early-20th-century crises between France and Germany.
Pankhurst | Likely Emmeline Pankhurst, militant leader of the British suffragette movement for women's voting rights.
Queen Victoria | Long-reigning British monarch whose era saw industrial growth, imperial expansion, and constitutional monarchy's consolidation.
Serbia | Balkan nation that won autonomy from Ottoman rule in the 19th century, later central to the Yugoslav wars.
Serbs | South Slavic people whose medieval kingdom fell to the Ottomans, later leading the drive for Yugoslav unity.
United Kingdom | State formed by the 1801 union of Great Britain and Ireland, the era's dominant industrial and imperial power.
Victor Emmanuel II | First king of unified Italy, crowned in 1861 after Cavour and Garibaldi's unification campaigns.
women's suffrage | Movement for women's voting rights, championed by suffragettes like the Pankhursts in Britain.
Zionism | Late-19th-century Jewish nationalist movement founded by Theodor Herzl, seeking a homeland in Palestine.
Adolphe Thiers | French statesman who suppressed the Paris Commune and became first president of the Third Republic.
Alexander III | Reactionary Russian tsar who reversed his father's reforms after Alexander II's assassination.
Balkan Peninsula | Southeastern European region of fragmenting Ottoman rule and rising nationalist rivalries before World War I.
Battle of Koniggratz | 1866 decisive Prussian victory over Austria in the Austro-Prussian War, also called Sadowa.
Battle of Solferino | 1859 bloody battle in the Italian unification wars that inspired the founding of the Red Cross.
Belgrade | Serbian capital repeatedly contested between the Ottomans and Habsburgs, later Yugoslavia's capital.
Benjamin Disraeli | Conservative British prime minister who expanded the empire and passed the Reform Act of 1867.
Carlist Wars | 19th-century Spanish civil wars between liberal and traditionalist claimants to the throne.
Carlsbad Decrees | 1819 measures imposing censorship and suppressing nationalist student groups across the German Confederation.
Emmeline Pankhurst | Militant leader of the British suffragette movement demanding women's voting rights.
Expedition of the Thousand | Garibaldi's 1860 volunteer conquest of Sicily and Naples, a key step in Italian unification.
Francois Guizot | French statesman and historian whose conservative ministry fell in the 1848 revolution.
Frankfurt am Main | German city that hosted the 1848 Frankfurt Parliament's failed attempt at national unification.
French Third Republic | French regime from 1870 to 1940, marked by the Dreyfus Affair and eventual collapse to Nazi invasion.
Helmuth von Moltke the Elder | Prussian chief of staff who engineered military victories in the wars of German unification.
Industrial Revolution | Transformation of manufacturing and transport beginning in 18th-century Britain, reshaping economy and society.
Isabella II | Spanish queen whose turbulent reign ended in an 1868 revolution and exile.
Joseph Chamberlain | British imperialist statesman who championed colonial expansion and split the Liberal Party over Irish Home Rule.
July Revolution | 1830 uprising that overthrew Charles X of France and installed the "Citizen King" Louis Philippe.
Kingdom of Greece | Modern Greek state established after independence from the Ottomans in 1832.
Kingdom of Serbia | Balkan nation that won full independence from Ottoman suzerainty in 1878.
Krupp | German industrial dynasty whose steel and armaments works fueled Prussian and later Nazi militarization.
Kulturkampf | Bismarck's 1870s campaign to curb Catholic Church influence in the newly unified German Empire.
Liberal Party | British political party of Gladstone and Lloyd George, dominant in the 19th century before Labour's rise.
Liverpool | English port city that grew wealthy on Atlantic trade, including the slave trade, and later industry.
Schleswig-Holstein | Contested duchies whose status sparked wars between Denmark, Prussia, and Austria in the 1860s.
Sergei Witte | Russian finance minister who industrialized the empire and negotiated the treaty ending the Russo-Japanese War.
Umberto I | King of Italy assassinated in 1900 by an anarchist avenging earlier repression.
William Gladstone | Liberal British prime minister four times over, champion of Irish Home Rule and free trade.
1905 | Year of a failed Russian revolution against Tsar Nicholas II, forcing limited constitutional concessions.
Austrian Empire | Habsburg-ruled multinational empire that reorganized into Austria-Hungary via the 1867 Ausgleich.
Battle of Balaclava | 1854 Crimean War battle famed for the disastrous Charge of the Light Brigade.
Battle of Magenta | 1859 French-Sardinian victory over Austria in the Italian unification wars, giving its name to the color.
Belgian Revolution | 1830 uprising that won Belgium's independence from the Netherlands.
Black and Tans | Auxiliary British paramilitary force notorious for reprisals during the Irish War of Independence.
Budapest | Hungarian capital formed by uniting Buda and Pest, site of the 1956 anti-Soviet uprising.
Bulgarians | South Slavic people whose medieval empire fell to the Ottomans, later winning autonomy in 1878.
Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour | Piedmontese statesman whose diplomacy engineered Italian unification under Victor Emmanuel II.
Carlism | Spanish traditionalist movement backing a rival royal line, fighting several 19th-century civil wars.
Catholic emancipation | 1829 British legislation lifting restrictions on Catholics holding public office, championed by O'Connell.
Cato Street Conspiracy | 1820 foiled plot to assassinate the British cabinet, reflecting radical postwar unrest.
Conservative Party | British political party descended from the Tories, led by figures like Disraeli, Peel, and Thatcher.
cotton | Key Industrial Revolution textile, processed in Manchester's mills from imported raw material.
Dreyfus Affair | 1890s scandal over a wrongly convicted Jewish officer that exposed deep French antisemitism.
emancipation of the serfs | Alexander II's 1861 decree freeing Russia's serfs from bondage to noble landowners.
Frankfurt Parliament | 1848 assembly that attempted to unify Germany under a liberal constitution but ultimately failed.
French Second Republic | Short-lived French regime (1848-1852) that elected Louis-Napoleon before his coup founded the Second Empire.
Grand Duchy of Finland | Autonomous Russian territory from 1809 until Finland's 1917 independence.
Greece and Turkey | 
Jules Ferry | French statesman who established free secular public education and expanded colonial empire.
Kingdom of Romania | Balkan nation formed from Wallachia and Moldavia in the 19th century under a Hohenzollern king.
Leo XIII | Pope whose Rerum Novarum encyclical addressed industrial-era labor and social justice.
Lorraine | French-German border region annexed by Germany after 1871, a symbol of Franco-German rivalry.
Louis Auguste Blanqui | French revolutionary socialist who spent decades imprisoned for repeated insurrectionary plots.
Mayerling Incident | 1889 murder-suicide of Austrian Crown Prince Rudolf and his mistress, a royal scandal.
Nicholas | 
Prince Albert | German-born consort of Queen Victoria who championed the Great Exhibition of 1851.
Rerum Novarum | Pope Leo XIII's 1891 encyclical addressing industrial labor conditions and workers' rights.
Rudolf | 
Social Democratic Party of Germany | Germany's oldest major party, founded in the 19th century as a Marxist labor movement under Bismarck's repression.
Suez Canal | Egyptian waterway whose 1956 nationalization crisis marked British and French imperial decline.
Swing Riots | 1830 English agricultural laborer uprisings against mechanization, under the fictitious "Captain Swing."
Tamworth Manifesto | Robert Peel's 1834 statement founding the modern British Conservative Party's principles.
the People's Budget | 1909 British budget proposing welfare taxes on the wealthy, triggering a constitutional crisis with the Lords.
Treaty of San Stefano | 1878 treaty ending the Russo-Turkish War, creating a large Bulgaria later reduced at the Congress of Berlin.
Victoria | Long-reigning British monarch whose era saw industrial growth and imperial expansion.
William Wilberforce | British evangelical politician whose decades-long campaign led to the abolition of the slave trade.
"Dropping the Pilot" | Famous 1890 cartoon depicting Kaiser Wilhelm II's dismissal of Chancellor Bismarck.
1840s | 
Abraham Kuyper | Dutch Calvinist theologian and prime minister who founded a Christian political party and university.
Alexander II of Russia | Russian tsar who emancipated the serfs in 1861 and was assassinated by revolutionaries in 1881.
Alexander Ypsilantis | Greek revolutionary leader who launched the opening campaign of the Greek War of Independence.
Alsace-Lorraine | French border region annexed by Germany after 1871, a symbol of Franco-German rivalry until 1918.
Ausgleich | 1867 Compromise creating the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary.
Bad Ems | German spa town, source of the edited "Ems Dispatch" telegram that provoked the Franco-Prussian War.
Battle of Inkerman | 1854 Crimean War battle fought in heavy fog between Russian and allied British-French forces.
Brighton | English seaside resort favored by the Prince Regent, later George IV, who built its Royal Pavilion.
Canning | British foreign secretary and briefly prime minister who supported Latin American and Greek independence.
Catholic Centre Party | German political party representing Catholic interests, targeted by Bismarck's Kulturkampf.
cholera | 19th-century epidemic disease whose London outbreak John Snow traced to contaminated water.
Corn Laws | British tariffs protecting grain producers, repealed by Robert Peel in 1846 amid the Irish Famine.
Duchy of Savoy | Alpine duchy whose royal house led Italian unification, becoming the Kingdom of Italy's ruling dynasty.
Frankfurt | German city that hosted the 1848 Frankfurt Parliament's failed attempt at national unification.
Gastein Convention | 1865 agreement temporarily dividing administration of Schleswig-Holstein between Prussia and Austria.
German | 
German university students | Nationalist fraternities whose agitation prompted the repressive Carlsbad Decrees of 1819.
Germans | 
Henry John Temple, 3rd Viscount Palmerston | British foreign secretary and prime minister known for assertive gunboat diplomacy in the mid-19th century.
Henry Morton Stanley | British-American explorer who searched for Livingstone and later helped Leopold II colonize the Congo.
HMS Dreadnought | Revolutionary 1906 British battleship whose design triggered an Anglo-German naval arms race before World War I.
Irish | 
irredentism | Nationalist doctrine claiming territory inhabited by one's ethnic kin, driving Italian and Balkan disputes.
Isabella II of Spain | Spanish queen whose turbulent reign ended in an 1868 revolution and exile.
Isambard Kingdom Brunel | British engineer renowned for railways, bridges, and steamships during the Industrial Revolution.
Istvan Szechenyi | Hungarian reformist noble called the "Greatest Hungarian," who modernized infrastructure and society.
Italian unification | 19th-century Risorgimento movement uniting Italy's states under Victor Emmanuel II by 1871.
January Uprising | 1863 Polish rebellion against Russian rule, brutally suppressed with mass exile to Siberia.
July Monarchy | French regime of "Citizen King" Louis Philippe (1830-1848), ended by the 1848 revolution.
King of Belgium | Monarch of Belgium since its 1830 independence, beginning with Leopold I.
King of Greece | Monarch of modern Greece since its 1832 independence, a title held by imported foreign dynasties.
King of Italy | Title held by the House of Savoy's Victor Emmanuel II and successors from unification until the 1946 republic.
Kingdom of Italy | Unified Italian state proclaimed in 1861 under Victor Emmanuel II, lasting until the 1946 republic.
Kingdom of the Two Sicilies | Southern Italian kingdom conquered by Garibaldi's Expedition of the Thousand during unification.
Klemens Wenzel von Metternich | Austrian statesman who dominated the Congress of Vienna and championed conservative reaction until ousted in 1848.
Lancashire | English county and cotton textile heartland central to the Industrial Revolution.
Leo von Caprivi | German chancellor who succeeded Bismarck and let the Reinsurance Treaty with Russia lapse.
liberal | 
Montenegro | Small Balkan mountain principality that won recognized independence from the Ottomans in 1878.
Poor Laws | British legislation governing relief for the poor, reformed in 1834 to establish harsh workhouses.
Prince Klemens Wenzel von Metternich | Austrian statesman who dominated the Congress of Vienna and championed conservative reaction until ousted in 1848.
Pyotr Stolypin | Russian prime minister whose land reforms aimed to create a stable peasant landowning class before his assassination.
railways | Rail transport that revolutionized 19th-century European trade, travel, and military mobilization.
Republic of Serbia | Balkan nation that won autonomy from Ottoman rule in the 19th century, later central to the Yugoslav wars.
Risorgimento | 19th-century movement that unified Italy's fragmented states under Victor Emmanuel II.
Robert Falcon Scott | British naval officer and explorer who died returning from the South Pole, narrowly beaten by Amundsen.
Savoy | Alpine duchy whose royal house led Italian unification, becoming the Kingdom of Italy's ruling dynasty.
Serbians | South Slavic people whose medieval kingdom fell to the Ottomans, later leading the drive for Yugoslav unity.
Sevastopol | Crimean naval port besieged for nearly a year during the Crimean War.
Sicilian Mafia | Organized crime network originating in 19th-century Sicily amid weak post-unification state authority.
Socialist party | 
Spencer Perceval | Only British prime minister ever assassinated, shot in Parliament's lobby in 1812.
State Duma | Russian legislative assembly created after the 1905 Revolution's constitutional concessions.
The Protocols of the Elders of Zion | Fabricated antisemitic Russian text purporting a Jewish conspiracy, widely used to justify persecution.
Theobald Wolfe Tone | Irish revolutionary who led the failed 1798 rebellion seeking an independent, non-sectarian Ireland.
Theodor Herzl | Austro-Hungarian journalist who founded modern political Zionism after covering the Dreyfus Affair.
Thomas Carlyle | Scottish essayist and historian whose The French Revolution shaped Victorian understanding of the upheaval.
trains | Rail transport that revolutionized 19th-century European trade, travel, and military mobilization.
Turin | Piedmontese capital and first capital of unified Italy, industrial and Savoy dynastic center.
Whitechapel | Impoverished East London district terrorized by the unidentified serial killer Jack the Ripper in 1888.
William Cobbett | English radical journalist and reformer whose Rural Rides chronicled agrarian distress and championed suffrage reform.
William IV | British king during whose reign the Great Reform Act of 1832 expanded the electoral franchise.
Zollverein | 19th-century German customs union that promoted economic integration ahead of political unification.
zouaves | French light infantry known for colorful North African-style uniforms, fighting in the Crimean and Franco-Prussian Wars.

# World War I and Revolutionary Europe
> The First World War, the Russian Revolution and founding of the Soviet Union, and the postwar peace settlement, 1914-1920s.
World War I | 1914-1918 war triggered by Franz Ferdinand's assassination, fought in trench stalemate, ending Europe's old empires.
David Lloyd George | Liberal British prime minister who led Britain through World War I and negotiated the Treaty of Versailles.
Nicholas II | Last Russian tsar, forced to abdicate in 1917 and executed with his family by the Bolsheviks.
Treaty of Versailles | 1919 peace treaty that blamed Germany for World War I, imposing reparations and territorial losses.
Easter Rising | 1916 Irish republican rebellion against British rule in Dublin, whose executed leaders galvanized independence sentiment.
Leon Trotsky | Bolshevik leader who organized the Red Army during the Russian Civil War, later exiled and assassinated by Stalin's agent.
Sarajevo | Bosnian capital where Gavrilo Princip assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand in 1914, triggering World War I.
Mustafa Kemal Ataturk | Ottoman military hero of Gallipoli who founded and modernized the secular Republic of Turkey.
Battle of Jutland | 1916 largest naval battle of World War I, an inconclusive clash between the British and German fleets.
Bela Kun | Communist leader of Hungary's short-lived 1919 Soviet Republic, crushed within months.
Rosa Luxemburg | German Marxist revolutionary and co-founder of the Spartacist uprising, murdered in 1919 by Freikorps troops.
trenches | Fortified defensive lines that defined the static, deadly stalemate of the Western Front in World War I.
Alexander Kerensky | Head of Russia's Provisional Government in 1917, overthrown by the Bolsheviks in the October Revolution.
Franz Ferdinand | Austro-Hungarian archduke whose 1914 assassination in Sarajevo triggered World War I.
Gallipoli campaign | 1915-1916 failed Allied campaign against the Ottomans, costly for Britain, France, Australia, and New Zealand.
Jozef Pilsudski | Polish statesman who won independence and led Poland's victory over Soviet Russia in 1920.
Michael Collins | Irish revolutionary leader who negotiated the Anglo-Irish Treaty and was killed in the ensuing civil war.
Vladimir Lenin | Bolshevik leader who seized power in the 1917 October Revolution and founded the Soviet state.
Battle of the Somme | 1916 battle with catastrophic British casualties on its first day, emblematic of World War I's attritional slaughter.
Fiume | Adriatic port whose disputed postwar status led to Gabriele d'Annunzio's 1919 occupation of the city.
Georges Clemenceau | French "Tiger" premier who led the nation through World War I's final years and the Versailles negotiations.
New Economic Policy | Lenin's 1921 partial retreat to market mechanisms after War Communism's economic devastation, ended by Stalin's collectivization.
Republic of Turkey | Secular state founded by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk from the Ottoman Empire's remains after World War I.
The Guns of August | Barbara Tuchman's history of the outbreak of World War I in the war's opening weeks.
Treaty of Trianon | 1920 treaty that stripped Hungary of most of its territory and population after World War I.
Archduke Franz Ferdinand | Austro-Hungarian heir whose 1914 assassination in Sarajevo triggered World War I.
Armenian Genocide | Ottoman mass killing of Armenians during World War I, recognized by many states as genocide.
Austen Chamberlain | British foreign secretary who won the Nobel Peace Prize for the Locarno Treaties, half-brother of Neville.
Australia | British dominion whose troops suffered heavily at Gallipoli in World War I, shaping national identity.
Battle of Amiens | 1918 Allied offensive that broke German lines, beginning the war-ending Hundred Days Offensive.
Battle of Verdun | 1916 grinding ten-month World War I battle symbolizing France's determination to hold the Western Front.
Ferdinand Foch | French marshal who became Supreme Allied Commander and accepted Germany's 1918 armistice.
Kaiser Wilhelm II | Last German emperor, whose naval buildup and diplomacy helped precipitate World War I; abdicated in 1918.
Spartacus League | German Marxist revolutionary group led by Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht, crushed in the 1919 Spartacist uprising.
Treaty of Brest-Litovsk | 1918 treaty in which Bolshevik Russia ceded vast territory to exit World War I.
Trieste | Adriatic port contested between Italy and Yugoslavia after both World Wars.
Turkey | Secular republic founded by Ataturk from the Ottoman Empire's remains after World War I.
Young Turks | Reformist Ottoman movement that seized power in 1908 and led the empire into World War I.
Ypres | Belgian city near which several bloody World War I battles, including the first gas attacks, were fought.
1918 | 
Barbara Wertheim Tuchman | American historian whose The Guns of August chronicled World War I's outbreak.
Battle of Vimy Ridge | 1917 World War I battle where Canadian forces captured a heavily fortified German ridge, a national milestone.
Black Hand | Serbian nationalist secret society that armed Gavrilo Princip for the assassination of Franz Ferdinand.
Eamon de Valera | Irish revolutionary and statesman who survived the Easter Rising to dominate 20th-century Irish politics.
February | 
Friedrich Ebert | Social Democratic first president of the Weimar Republic, who suppressed leftist uprisings after World War I.
Gabriele d'Annunzio | Italian poet-soldier who seized Fiume in 1919, a precursor to fascist theatrics and irredentism.
Isonzo River | Site of a dozen brutal World War I battles between Italy and Austria-Hungary.
James Ramsay MacDonald | Britain's first Labour prime minister, forming minority governments in the 1920s.
Kapp Putsch | 1920 failed right-wing coup against the Weimar Republic, defeated by a general strike.
Kronstadt Rebellion | 1921 sailors' uprising against Bolshevik rule, crushed but prompting Lenin's New Economic Policy.
Lausanne | Swiss city where the 1923 treaty settled Turkey's postwar borders, superseding the harsher Treaty of Sevres.
League of Nations = The League of Nations | International body founded after World War I to preserve peace, undermined by its failure to stop aggression.
Locarno Treaties | 1925 agreements normalizing Germany's western borders, briefly easing postwar European tensions.
Masaryk | Founding president of Czechoslovakia after World War I, a philosopher-statesman.
Mata Hari | Dutch exotic dancer executed by France as a German spy during World War I.
Nancy Astor | American-born politician who became the first woman to sit as a British Member of Parliament.
Paris Peace Conference | 1919-1920 negotiations producing the Treaty of Versailles and redrawing Europe's postwar map.
Polish-Soviet War | 1919-1921 war in which Pilsudski's Poland repelled a Soviet invasion, securing its eastern borders.
Rif | Moroccan mountain region whose Berber tribes fought a costly war against Spanish and French colonizers.
Symon Petliura | Ukrainian nationalist leader during its brief post-World War I independence, later assassinated in exile.
Tanks | Armored vehicles first deployed by Britain in World War I, later central to Blitzkrieg warfare.
Treaty of Lausanne | 1923 treaty settling Turkey's postwar borders, superseding the harsher Treaty of Sevres.
U-boats | German submarines whose unrestricted warfare campaigns targeted Allied shipping in both World Wars.
Wilhelm II | Last German emperor, whose naval buildup and diplomacy helped precipitate World War I; abdicated in 1918.

# Interwar Crisis and World War II
> The Weimar Republic, the rise of fascism and interwar dictatorships, the Second World War, and the Holocaust, 1920s-1945.
Joseph Stalin | Soviet dictator who industrialized the USSR through purges and famine, led it through World War II, and began the Cold War.
Weimar Republic | German republic (1919-1933) beset by hyperinflation and political extremism, collapsing with Hitler's rise to power.
Finland | Nordic nation, a Russian grand duchy until 1917 independence, later fought the Soviet Union in the Winter War.
Spanish Civil War | 1936-1939 war between Franco's Nationalists and the Republic, a proving ground for German and Italian intervention.
Benito Mussolini | Fascist dictator who ruled Italy from 1922, allied with Hitler, and was executed by partisans in 1945.
Czechoslovakia | Central European state formed in 1918, dismembered at Munich in 1938, later a Communist state until its 1993 split.
Francisco Franco | Nationalist general who won the Spanish Civil War and ruled Spain as dictator until his death in 1975.
Paul von Hindenburg | German field marshal and later president who appointed Hitler chancellor in 1933.
Francisco Franco Bahamonde | Full name of Francisco Franco, the Nationalist general who won the Spanish Civil War and ruled Spain until 1975.
Vichy France | Collaborationist French state under Marshal Petain after the 1940 defeat, governing the unoccupied south until 1944.
Warsaw | Polish capital devastated by a 1944 uprising against Nazi occupation, later rebuilt under Communist rule.
Winston Churchill | British prime minister who led the nation through World War II, later coining the term "Iron Curtain."
Winter War | 1939-1940 conflict in which Finland fiercely resisted a Soviet invasion before ceding territory.
Munich | Bavarian city, site of Hitler's failed 1923 Beer Hall Putsch and the 1938 appeasement agreement over Czechoslovakia.
Nuremberg | German city that hosted Nazi Party rallies and later the postwar trials of Nazi leaders.
Popular Front | Left-wing coalition governments in 1930s France and Spain uniting Socialists and Communists against fascism.
Vidkun Quisling | Norwegian fascist whose name became synonymous with treason after collaborating with Nazi occupation.
1930s | 
Anschluss | 1938 annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany, welcomed by many Austrians and unopposed by other powers.
Leon Blum | French Socialist prime minister who led the Popular Front government in the mid-1930s.
Philippe Petain | World War I hero who later led collaborationist Vichy France, tried for treason after liberation.
Battle of the Bulge | Hitler's last major offensive in the Ardennes in winter 1944-45, ultimately repelled by Allied forces.
Chamberlain | Likely Neville Chamberlain, British prime minister whose appeasement policy at Munich failed to prevent World War II.
Chetniks | Serbian royalist resistance movement in occupied Yugoslavia during World War II, rivals of Tito's Communist Partisans.
Christian X | Danish king who became a symbol of quiet resistance during the Nazi occupation of Denmark.
Vyacheslav Molotov | Soviet foreign minister who signed the 1939 non-aggression pact with Nazi Germany that bears his name.
Adolf Hitler | Nazi dictator whose invasions triggered World War II and whose regime perpetrated the Holocaust.
Battle of Britain | 1940 air campaign in which the RAF repelled the Luftwaffe, foiling Hitler's planned invasion of Britain.
Battle of Stalingrad | 1942-1943 turning-point battle in which the Soviets crushed a German army, reversing the war's momentum.
Benito Amilcare Andrea Mussolini | Full name of Mussolini, Fascist dictator who ruled Italy from 1922 until his 1945 execution.
Beveridge Report | 1942 British report laying the blueprint for the postwar welfare state and National Health Service.
Bletchley Park | British codebreaking site where Alan Turing and colleagues cracked the German Enigma cipher in World War II.
Dresden | Saxon city devastated by controversial Allied firebombing in February 1945.
Falange | Spanish fascist party founded by Jose Antonio Primo de Rivera, later Franco's sole legal party.
kulaks | Soviet term for relatively prosperous peasants targeted for elimination during Stalin's forced collectivization.
Nazi Party | German fascist party led by Hitler, which seized totalitarian power in 1933 and perpetrated the Holocaust.
NKVD | Soviet secret police agency that carried out Stalin's purges, mass deportations, and the Katyn massacre.
Oswald Mosley | British aristocrat who founded the fascist British Union of Fascists in the 1930s.
Republic of Finland | Nordic nation, a Russian grand duchy until 1917 independence, later fought the Soviet Union in the Winter War.
Stanley Baldwin | British Conservative prime minister who navigated the Great Depression and Edward VIII's abdication crisis.
the Blitz | Sustained German bombing campaign against British cities during 1940-1941.
Ustase | Croatian fascist movement that ran a brutal puppet state under Axis occupation, perpetrating genocide.
Arrow Cross Party | Hungarian fascist party that seized power late in World War II, perpetrating atrocities against Jews and Roma.
Engelbert Dollfuss | Austrian chancellor who established an authoritarian corporatist state before his 1934 assassination by Nazis.
Georgy Zhukov | Leading Soviet marshal who defended Moscow and Stalingrad and led the capture of Berlin.
Gestapo | Nazi Germany's secret police, responsible for surveillance and terror enforcing the regime's rule.
heavy water | Key nuclear material whose Norwegian production plant was sabotaged by Allied commandos to hinder Nazi atomic research.
Japan | 
Joseph Goebbels | Nazi propaganda minister who orchestrated the regime's messaging and died by suicide with Hitler.
Karelia | Border region ceded by Finland to the Soviet Union after the Winter War and Continuation War.
Katyn Forest massacre | 1940 Soviet execution of thousands of Polish officers, long falsely blamed on the Nazis.
Lazar Kaganovich | Loyal Stalinist enforcer who oversaw brutal collectivization and Moscow's subway construction.
Miklos Horthy | Hungarian regent who ruled the interwar kingdom without a king and allied with the Axis.
Nazi Germany | Totalitarian regime under Hitler from 1933-1945, responsible for World War II and the Holocaust.
Operation Market Garden | Failed 1944 Allied airborne operation to seize Rhine bridges, dramatized in "A Bridge Too Far."
Otto Skorzeny | SS commando who rescued Mussolini in a daring 1943 raid after his ouster.
Pierre Laval | Vichy France's chief collaborationist minister, executed for treason after the war.
Reichstag fire | 1933 German parliament building blaze that Hitler used as pretext to suspend civil liberties.
Rhineland | Demilitarized German region whose 1936 reoccupation by Hitler tested Allied resolve unopposed.
Second Spanish Republic | 1931-1939 Spanish democratic government overthrown by Franco's Nationalists in the Civil War.
the Holocaust | Nazi Germany's systematic genocide of six million Jews and other victims during World War II.
Wehrmacht | Unified armed forces of Nazi Germany, responsible for its conquests and atrocities in World War II.
Alfonso XIII | Spanish king who fled during the Second Republic's founding, grandfather of Juan Carlos I.
Battle of Berlin | 1945 final Soviet assault on Nazi Germany's capital, ending with Hitler's suicide and Germany's surrender.
Battle of Kursk | 1943 massive tank battle in which the Soviets decisively halted a German offensive.
Battle of Monte Cassino | Series of brutal 1944 Allied assaults on a fortified monastery hilltop in the Italian campaign.
Boris III | Bulgarian king who allied with the Axis but refused to deport Bulgaria's Jews, dying suddenly in 1943.
Condor Legion | Nazi German air and ground unit that aided Franco in the Spanish Civil War, bombing Guernica.
Danzig | Free City whose disputed status between Poland and Germany contributed to the outbreak of World War II.
Edouard Daladier | French premier who signed the Munich Agreement appeasing Hitler over Czechoslovakia.
Enabling Act of 1933 | Law granting Hitler dictatorial powers after the Reichstag fire, ending German parliamentary democracy.
Ethiopia | African nation invaded by Mussolini's Italy in 1935, exposing the League of Nations' weakness.
fascism | Authoritarian ultranationalist ideology pioneered by Mussolini and adopted by Hitler and other interwar regimes.
Free French Forces | Resistance movement led by Charles de Gaulle continuing France's fight after the 1940 defeat.
French Resistance | Underground movement opposing Nazi occupation and the Vichy regime through sabotage and intelligence.
ghettos | Segregated urban districts where Nazi Germany confined Jewish populations before deportation to camps.
Giacomo Matteotti | Italian socialist politician murdered by Fascists in 1924 after denouncing Mussolini's regime.
Hamburg | German port city and Hanseatic League member, devastated by Allied firebombing in 1943.
Heinrich Himmler | SS leader who oversaw the Holocaust and concentration camp system, dying by suicide when captured.
Hitler Youth | Nazi youth organization indoctrinating German boys and girls into party ideology and militarism.
hyperinflation | Catastrophic currency collapse in 1920s Weimar Germany, devastating savings and fueling political extremism.
Ioannis Metaxas | Greek dictator whose "No" to Italy's 1940 ultimatum brought Greece into World War II.
Ion Antonescu | Romanian military dictator allied with Nazi Germany, executed after the war for war crimes.
Jewish ghettos | Segregated urban districts where Nazi Germany confined Jewish populations before deportation to camps.
King Zog I | Self-proclaimed Albanian monarch who ruled the interwar kingdom before fleeing Italy's 1939 invasion.
Kristallnacht | 1938 Nazi-organized pogrom destroying Jewish businesses and synagogues across Germany and Austria.
Lapua Movement | Finnish anti-Communist nationalist movement of the 1930s that pressured the government toward the right.
Lateran Treaty | 1929 agreement between Mussolini's Italy and the papacy establishing Vatican City's sovereignty.
Lavrentiy Pavlovich Beria | Feared chief of Stalin's secret police, executed shortly after Stalin's death in a power struggle.
Lord Haw-Haw | Nickname for William Joyce, who broadcast Nazi propaganda to Britain during World War II.
Magnitogorsk | Soviet steel city built from scratch during Stalin's forced industrialization drive.
Neville Chamberlain | British prime minister whose appeasement policy at Munich failed to prevent World War II.
Reinhard Heydrich | Nazi official who chaired the Wannsee Conference planning the Holocaust, assassinated by Czech resistance.
Second Battle of Tannenberg | 1914 World War I battle in which Germany destroyed a Russian army in East Prussia.
Third Reich | Official name for Nazi Germany under Hitler, from 1933 until its 1945 defeat.
Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill | Full name of Winston Churchill, British prime minister who led the nation through World War II.
World War II | 1939-1945 global conflict triggered by Nazi Germany's invasion of Poland, ending with Allied victory and the Holocaust's revelation.

# Cold War and Contemporary Europe
> The Cold War division of the continent, decolonization, European integration, the 1989 revolutions and Soviet collapse, the Yugoslav wars, and post-Cold War politics, 1945-present.
East Germany | Soviet-aligned German Democratic Republic, separated from West Germany by the Berlin Wall until 1990 reunification.
Albania | Balkan nation ruled by the isolationist Communist dictator Enver Hoxha for over four decades after World War II.
Margaret Thatcher | Conservative British prime minister (1979-1990) who fought the Falklands War, curbed unions, and privatized industry.
Cyprus | Eastern Mediterranean island divided since Turkey's 1974 invasion following Greek-backed Enosis agitation.
Josip Broz Tito | Communist leader who ruled Yugoslavia independent of Moscow, holding its diverse republics together until his 1980 death.
Labour Party | British socialist party founded in 1900, forming governments under Attlee, who created the NHS, and later Wilson and Blair.
Charles de Gaulle | Leader of the Free French in World War II who later founded France's Fifth Republic and granted Algeria independence.
Croatia | Balkan nation that declared independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, triggering war with Serb forces.
Nicolae Ceausescu | Romania's Communist dictator, deposed and executed in the violent 1989 revolution that ended his cult of personality.
Berlin | German capital divided by the Cold War-era Wall from 1961 to 1989, symbol of Germany's postwar partition.
Solidarity | Polish trade union led by Lech Walesa that challenged Communist rule in the 1980s, later winning power in 1989.
West Germany | Federal Republic of Germany (1949-1990), the US-aligned state that achieved an economic "miracle" before reunification.
Silvio Berlusconi | Media mogul who served multiple terms as Italian prime minister amid scandal from the 1990s onward.
Antonio de Oliveira Salazar | Portuguese dictator whose authoritarian Estado Novo regime lasted from the 1930s until his 1970 death.
Ukraine | Eastern European nation descended from Kievan Rus', independent since 1991 and invaded by Russia in 2014 and 2022.
Willy Brandt | West German chancellor who pursued Ostpolitik detente with the East, kneeling at the Warsaw Ghetto memorial.
Francois Mitterrand | French Socialist president (1981-1995) who nationalized industries and championed European integration.
Northern Ireland | Constituent UK region wracked by sectarian violence during the Troubles, resolved by the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.
Yugoslavia | Multiethnic Balkan federation held together by Tito, which violently fragmented into successor states in the 1990s.
Algeria | North African French colony whose brutal 1954-1962 war of independence brought down France's Fourth Republic.
Janos Kadar | Hungarian Communist leader installed after the Soviets crushed the 1956 uprising, ruling for over three decades.
Leonid Brezhnev | Soviet leader whose long tenure brought stagnation, the Prague Spring invasion, and detente with the West.
Republic of Poland | Modern Polish state restored in 1918 and again in 1989 after decades of Communist rule.
Slobodan Milosevic | Serbian nationalist leader tried for war crimes over the Yugoslav wars and Kosovo conflict.
Years of Lead | Period of political violence and terrorism in Italy from the late 1960s to 1980s, involving the Red Brigades.
Carnation Revolution | 1974 largely bloodless military coup that ended Portugal's Estado Novo dictatorship and began democratization.
Prague Spring | 1968 liberalizing reforms in Czechoslovakia under Alexander Dubcek, crushed by a Warsaw Pact invasion.
Aldo Moro | Italian prime minister kidnapped and murdered by the Red Brigades in 1978.
Estado Novo | Authoritarian corporatist regime ruling Portugal under Salazar from the 1930s until the 1974 Carnation Revolution.
Italian Communist Party | Western Europe's largest Communist party during the Cold War, influential in postwar Italian politics.
Mikhail Gorbachev | Final Soviet leader whose glasnost and perestroika reforms led to the USSR's 1991 collapse.
NATO | Western military alliance founded in 1949 to counter Soviet power, later expanded into Eastern Europe.
Nikita Khrushchev | Soviet leader who denounced Stalin, clashed with the West over Cuba and Berlin, and pursued de-Stalinization.
Stasi | East Germany's pervasive secret police, notorious for surveilling and informing on its own citizens.
Ulster | Historic Irish province, largely comprising Northern Ireland, at the center of sectarian conflict during the Troubles.
Vaclav Havel | Czech playwright and dissident who became president after the 1989 Velvet Revolution ended Communist rule.
1970s | 
1990s | 
Boris Yeltsin | First president of post-Soviet Russia, who defied a 1991 coup attempt and oversaw turbulent market reforms.
Canada | North American nation with historic ties to France and Britain, a NATO member throughout the Cold War.
Chechnya | North Caucasus region whose bids for independence from Russia sparked two brutal post-Soviet wars.
China | 
Clement Attlee | Labour prime minister who defeated Churchill in 1945 and founded Britain's National Health Service and welfare state.
Estonia | Baltic nation independent between the World Wars, annexed by the Soviet Union, and independent again since 1991.
ETA | Basque separatist militant organization that waged a decades-long violent campaign for independence from Spain.
Harold Macmillan | British Conservative prime minister of the late 1950s-60s who declared the "Wind of Change" in decolonizing Africa.
Hungarian Revolution of 1956 | Popular uprising against Soviet control crushed by Red Army tanks; its leader Imre Nagy was later executed.
Konrad Adenauer | First chancellor of West Germany, who rebuilt the postwar economy and anchored it in Western alliances.
Ludwig Erhard | West German chancellor and economics minister credited with engineering the postwar "economic miracle."
Michael | 
New Zealand | 
Pravda | Official newspaper of the Soviet Communist Party, a key propaganda organ throughout the USSR's history.
Republic of Albania | Formal name of Albania, isolated under Communist dictator Enver Hoxha for over four decades after World War II.
Republic of Cyprus | Mediterranean island state independent since 1960, divided since Turkey's 1974 invasion.
Soviet Union | Communist superpower formed after the Russian Revolution, dissolving in 1991 after decades of Cold War rivalry.
Tony Blair | Labour prime minister who negotiated the Good Friday Agreement and joined the US-led Iraq War.
Anthony Eden | British prime minister whose career ended after the disastrous 1956 Suez Crisis.
Bosnian War | 1992-1995 ethnic conflict following Yugoslavia's breakup, marked by the Srebrenica massacre and Dayton Accords.
Chernobyl disaster | 1986 nuclear reactor meltdown in Soviet Ukraine, the world's worst nuclear accident, exposing Soviet secrecy.
Enver Hoxha | Albania's isolationist Communist dictator for over four decades after World War II.
Francois Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterrand | Full name of Francois Mitterrand, French Socialist president who championed European integration.
Jacques Chirac | French president who opposed the 2003 Iraq War and formally acknowledged France's Vichy-era complicity.
John Major | Conservative British prime minister who succeeded Thatcher and signed the Maastricht Treaty.
John Paul II | Polish pope whose support for Solidarity helped undermine Communist rule in Eastern Europe.
KGB | Soviet Union's main security and intelligence agency, central to Cold War espionage and internal repression.
Lech Walesa | Polish shipyard electrician who led the Solidarity movement and became post-Communist Poland's president.
Marshall Plan | US-funded program that rebuilt Western European economies after World War II, countering Soviet influence.
Republic of Ireland | Independent Irish state, formally declared a republic in 1949, that remained neutral in World War II.
Robert Schuman | French statesman whose 1950 plan for coal and steel integration launched the process of European unification.
Second Vatican Council | 1962-1965 Catholic Church council that modernized liturgy and church-world relations.
Sir John Major | Conservative British prime minister who succeeded Thatcher and signed the Maastricht Treaty.
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia | Formal name of Tito's multiethnic Balkan federation, which fragmented violently after his death.
The Troubles | Decades-long sectarian conflict in Northern Ireland, resolved by the 1998 Good Friday Agreement.
Todor Zhivkov | Bulgaria's long-ruling Communist leader from the 1950s until his 1989 ouster.
Valery Giscard d'Estaing | French president of the 1970s who liberalized social laws and championed European integration.
1968 | Year of widespread student protest and unrest across Europe, including Paris's May uprising and the Prague Spring.
Arthur Scargill | British miners' union leader who led the bitter 1984-85 strike against Thatcher's pit closures.
Belfast | Capital of Northern Ireland, a flashpoint of sectarian violence during the Troubles.
Christian Democracy | Postwar centrist political movement rooted in Catholic social teaching, dominant in Italy and West Germany.
Crimea | Black Sea peninsula transferred to Ukraine in 1954, later annexed by Russia in 2014.
Dayton Accords | 1995 US-brokered agreement ending the Bosnian War and establishing Bosnia's postwar political structure.
Der Spiegel | German newsmagazine whose 1962 government raid over a critical article sparked a press-freedom scandal.
Edward Heath | Conservative British prime minister who led Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973.
Enoch Powell | British Conservative politician notorious for his inflammatory 1968 anti-immigration "Rivers of Blood" speech.
European Union | Political and economic union of European states, evolved from the Coal and Steel Community and Common Market.
Gdansk | Polish Baltic port city and birthplace of the Solidarity movement in the 1980s shipyards.
India | 
Kazakhstan | 
Kosovo | Balkan territory whose 1998-99 war and later independence from Serbia followed the Yugoslav wars.
Latvia | Baltic nation independent between the World Wars, annexed by the Soviet Union, independent again since 1991.
Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev | Soviet leader whose long tenure brought stagnation, the Prague Spring invasion, and detente with the West.
Maastricht Treaty | 1992 treaty establishing the European Union and laying groundwork for the euro currency.
Nikita Sergeyevich Khrushchev | Soviet leader who denounced Stalin, clashed with the West over Cuba and Berlin, and pursued de-Stalinization.
Olof Palme | Swedish Social Democratic prime minister and outspoken Cold War critic of both superpowers, assassinated in 1986.
Propaganda Due | Secretive Italian Masonic lodge implicated in Cold War-era political conspiracies and scandals.
Red Army Faction | West German far-left militant group, also called the Baader-Meinhof Gang, active in the 1970s-90s.
Red Brigades | Italian far-left terrorist group responsible for kidnapping and murdering Aldo Moro in 1978.
Slovakia | Central European nation formed from Czechoslovakia's 1993 peaceful split, later joining the EU and NATO.
Srebrenica Massacre | 1995 genocide of Bosniak men and boys by Bosnian Serb forces during the Bosnian War.
United States of America | 
Virgin Lands Campaign | Khrushchev's 1950s Soviet program to cultivate Kazakh and Siberian steppe for grain production.
William Lyon MacKenzie King | 
1956 | 
Ana Pauker | Romanian Communist leader and one of the highest-ranking women in the early Eastern Bloc.
apartheid | 
April | 
Baader-Meinhof Gang | West German far-left militant group, also called the Red Army Faction, active from the 1970s.
Berlin airlift | 1948-1949 Western operation flying supplies into blockaded West Berlin, an early major Cold War confrontation.
Black Wednesday | 1992 crisis when Britain was forced to withdraw the pound from the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.
Bosnia and Herzegovina | Balkan nation whose 1992-1995 war, including the Srebrenica massacre, followed Yugoslavia's breakup.
Charles, Prince of Wales | Long-serving heir to the British throne, later King Charles III, known for his marriage to Diana.
Crimean Peninsula | Black Sea peninsula transferred to Ukraine in 1954, later annexed by Russia in 2014.
Cuba | 
Edward "Ted" Heath | Conservative British prime minister who led Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973.
Enosis | Greek Cypriot movement for union with Greece, contributing to Cyprus's ethnic conflict and 1974 division.
European Coal and Steel Community | 1951 organization pooling French and German heavy industry, the founding step toward European integration.
Falklands War | 1982 conflict in which Britain under Thatcher retook the South Atlantic islands from Argentina.
Franjo Tudjman | Croatian nationalist leader who led the country to independence and through war with Serb forces.
Georges Pompidou | French president who succeeded de Gaulle and modernized the nation's economy and culture in the 1970s.
German reunification | 1990 merger of East and West Germany following the fall of the Berlin Wall.
glasnost | Gorbachev's policy of political openness that accelerated the Soviet Union's late-1980s liberalization.
Good Friday Agreement | 1998 accord that largely ended the Troubles in Northern Ireland through power-sharing arrangements.
Greek Civil War | 1946-1949 conflict between Communists and the government, an early Cold War proxy struggle.
Gunter Guillaume | East German spy in Willy Brandt's staff whose exposure forced the West German chancellor's resignation.
Harold Wilson | Labour prime minister who governed Britain through the 1960s-70s, keeping the country out of Vietnam.
Helmut Kohl | West German chancellor who oversaw reunification in 1990 and championed European integration.
Hugh Gaitskell | British Labour Party leader of the 1950s who battled the party's left wing over nuclear disarmament.
Imre Nagy | Hungarian reformist premier executed after the Soviets crushed the 1956 uprising he led.
Independent Self-Governing Trade Union "Solidarity" | Formal name of Solidarity, the Polish trade union led by Lech Walesa that challenged Communist rule.
Jacques Rene Chirac | French president who opposed the 2003 Iraq War and formally acknowledged France's Vichy-era complicity.
Kosovo War | 1998-99 conflict in which NATO bombed Serbia to halt ethnic cleansing, leading to Kosovo's later independence.
Leonid Ilich Brezhnev | Soviet leader whose long tenure brought stagnation, the Prague Spring invasion, and detente with the West.
Margaret Hilda Thatcher | Conservative British prime minister (1979-1990) who fought the Falklands War, curbed unions, and privatized industry.
Matyas Rakosi | Hungarian Stalinist dictator whose repressive rule preceded the 1956 uprising.
National Health Service | Britain's public healthcare system, founded in 1948 under Attlee's postwar Labour government.
Neue Ostpolitik | Willy Brandt's policy of normalizing West Germany's relations with the Soviet bloc and East Germany.
Paul VI | Pope who implemented the Second Vatican Council's reforms and issued the controversial Humanae Vitae.
Provisional Irish Republican Army | Paramilitary group waging armed struggle for Irish reunification during the Troubles.
Republic of Austria | Modern Austrian state re-established after World War II, declaring permanent neutrality in 1955.
Republic of Bulgaria | Post-Communist Bulgarian state established after the 1989 fall of Todor Zhivkov's regime.
Republic of Croatia | Balkan nation that declared independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, triggering war with Serb forces.
Republic of Malta | Mediterranean island state independent from Britain since 1964, later joining the EU.
samizdat | Self-published underground literature circulated to evade Soviet censorship.
Singing Revolution | Late-1980s peaceful Baltic independence movement expressed through mass public singing protests.
Swedish Social Democratic Party | Sweden's dominant 20th-century party, architect of the Nordic welfare state model.
SYRIZA | Greek left-wing party that governed during the country's severe 2010s debt crisis.
The Hague | Dutch city hosting the International Court of Justice and war crimes tribunals for Yugoslav conflicts.
Treaty of Rome | 1957 treaty establishing the European Economic Community, a foundation of European integration.
Ukrainian | 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland | Formal name of the UK following Irish partition and the 1922 independence of the south.
USSR | Communist superpower formed after the Russian Revolution, dissolving in 1991 after decades of Cold War rivalry.
Velvet Revolution | 1989 peaceful protests that ended Communist rule in Czechoslovakia, bringing Vaclav Havel to power.
Vladimir Putin | Russian president and former KGB officer who has dominated the country's politics since 1999.
Walter Ulbricht | East German Communist leader who oversaw the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961.
Winter of Discontent | 1978-1979 wave of British strikes that contributed to Labour's electoral defeat and Thatcher's rise.
Wladyslaw Gomulka | Polish Communist leader who returned to power in 1956 promising reform, later suppressing dissent.
Wojciech Jaruzelski | Polish general who imposed martial law in 1981 to suppress the Solidarity movement.

# Economy, Society, and Culture
> Trade goods, social institutions, everyday life, disease, and material culture recurring across many eras rather than anchored to one.
witch trials | Early modern prosecutions for witchcraft, peaking in the 16th-17th centuries amid religious upheaval and social anxiety.
wool | Medieval England and Flanders's key export commodity, driving trade networks and taxation disputes with France.
guilds | Medieval associations of craftsmen and merchants that regulated trade, training, and quality in European towns.
Jews | European Jewish communities, subject to periodic persecution, pogroms, and the Holocaust across the continent's history.
monasteries | Christian religious communities that preserved learning and managed land, dissolved in England under Henry VIII.
Oxford | English university town, home to one of Europe's oldest universities, dating to the 12th century.
banks | Financial institutions pioneered by Italian houses like the Medici, later central to European state finance.
red | 
salons | 18th-century gatherings hosted by educated women that fostered Enlightenment intellectual exchange in Paris and elsewhere.
witches | Accused practitioners of sorcery targeted in early modern European witch trials amid religious and social upheaval.
banking | Financial industry pioneered by Italian houses like the Medici, later central to European state and commercial finance.
Fernand Braudel | French historian of the Annales school, noted for The Mediterranean and his emphasis on long-term historical structures.
jousting | Medieval mounted combat sport between armored knights, a centerpiece of chivalric tournaments.
potatoes | New World crop that transformed European agriculture and diet, whose blight caused the Irish Famine.
Romani | Itinerant people of South Asian origin who migrated across Europe, facing centuries of persecution and Holocaust genocide.
silver | Precious metal mined in the Americas and Central Europe, fueling early modern trade and price inflation.
books | Texts whose production was transformed by Gutenberg's printing press, spreading Reformation and Enlightenment ideas.
castles | Fortified medieval strongholds built by nobility, evolving from timber motte-and-bailey to stone concentric designs.
coal mining | Extractive industry powering the Industrial Revolution, later central to 20th-century labor struggles like the UK miners' strikes.
enclosure | Process of fencing off common land into private holdings, transforming English agriculture from the medieval period onward.
feudalism | Medieval social system of land-holding in exchange for military service, binding lords, vassals, and peasants.
printing | Movable-type technology introduced by Gutenberg, transforming the spread of religious and scientific ideas.
Salt | Vital preservative and trade commodity, taxed and monopolized by many European states through history.
Sami | Indigenous reindeer-herding people of the Scandinavian and Russian Arctic, historically marginalized by Nordic states.
serfs | Bound agricultural laborers tied to noble-owned land, emancipated in Russia only in 1861.
silk | Luxury textile imported via trade routes from Asia, later produced domestically in Italy and France.
universities | Medieval institutions of higher learning founded at Bologna, Paris, and Oxford, chartered by church and crown.
beards | Facial hair whose fashion and taxation, as under Peter the Great's beard tax, tracked shifting cultural norms.
beer | Brewed beverage central to European diet and trade, regulated by laws like Bavaria's Reinheitsgebot.
Booth | 
cars | Automobiles whose 20th-century mass production reshaped European industry, cities, and everyday life.
coal | Fossil fuel that powered the Industrial Revolution and remained central to European heavy industry for centuries.
Edward Gibbon | English historian whose Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is a landmark Enlightenment-era history.
Eric Hobsbawm | British Marxist historian known for his sweeping "Age of" series on modern European history.
fish | A staple protein and major trade good, driving disputes like the Anglo-Icelandic Cod Wars.
forests | Woodlands governed by medieval royal forest law, restricting hunting and land use for the crown's benefit.
knights | Mounted, armored warriors bound by chivalric codes, central to medieval European warfare and nobility.
leprosy | Chronic disease that led medieval Europe to isolate sufferers in dedicated leper hospitals.
maps | Cartographic works advanced by figures like Mercator, aiding exploration, trade, and state administration.
pikes | Long spears wielded by massed infantry formations, dominant on early modern European battlefields.
pogroms | Violent anti-Jewish riots recurring across the Russian Empire and Eastern Europe from the 19th century onward.
poisoning | 
Rothschild family | European Jewish banking dynasty whose international financial network shaped 19th-century state finance.
schools | 
steel | Industrial material central to 19th-century manufacturing and armaments, produced by firms like Krupp.
wine | Major European trade good, especially from France, central to medieval commerce and taxation.
workhouses | British institutions confining the poor in exchange for labor, especially after the 1834 Poor Law reform.
Annales school | French historiographical movement emphasizing long-term social and economic structures over political events.
barricades | Street obstructions used by Parisian and other European revolutionaries, iconic of 1830, 1848, and the Commune.
bells | 
burning at the stake | Common execution method for heresy and witchcraft, used against figures like Jan Hus and Joan of Arc.
charivari | Mocking folk ritual of noisy public shaming, often targeting mismatched marriages or moral transgressions.
children | 
coal AND steel | Heavy industries pooled by the 1951 treaty founding the European Coal and Steel Community.
coal miners | Industrial laborers whose strikes, notably in 1980s Britain, shaped modern labor politics.
coins | Minted currency whose standardization and debasement tracked European states' fiscal fortunes.
copper | Metal mined and traded across Europe for tools, coinage, and later industrial wiring.
duels | Ritualized combat defending personal honor among European nobility and officers into the 19th century.
earthquakes | Natural disasters including Lisbon's catastrophic 1755 quake, which shook Enlightenment religious certainty.
falconry | Medieval aristocratic hunting sport using trained birds of prey, a marker of noble status.
gin | Distilled spirit whose cheap 18th-century consumption sparked London's "Gin Craze" and reform laws.
hats | 
homosexuality | 
hospitals | Charitable medical institutions run by medieval religious orders like the Knights Hospitaller.
land | 
mining | Extraction of coal, silver, and other minerals central to European industry across many eras.
newspapers | Printed periodicals that grew from early modern pamphlets into mass 19th-century circulation.
Orphans | 
peasants | Agricultural laborers forming the majority of Europe's medieval and early modern population.
River Thames | England's principal river, running through London and central to the nation's trade and history.
Roma | Itinerant people of South Asian origin who migrated across Europe, facing centuries of persecution and Holocaust genocide.
Russian Jews | Jewish communities of the Russian Empire, confined to the Pale of Settlement and subject to periodic pogroms.
Russian serfs | Bound agricultural laborers tied to noble-owned land, emancipated by Alexander II in 1861.
Sami people | Indigenous reindeer-herding people of the Scandinavian and Russian Arctic, historically marginalized by Nordic states.
Stonehenge | Prehistoric stone monument in England, predating written European history but a lasting cultural landmark.
tobacco | New World crop that became a major European trade good and source of colonial revenue.
velvet | Luxury fabric associated with Renaissance-era nobility and the peaceful 1989 Czechoslovak revolution's name.
abortion | 
Adam Hochschild | American author of King Leopold's Ghost, exposing Belgian atrocities in the Congo Free State.
agriculture | 
alcohol | 
anti-Semitism | 
bandits | 
Black | 
blood libel | False antisemitic accusation that Jews murdered Christian children for ritual purposes, fueling persecution.
bridges | 
canals | Artificial waterways built to expand trade, notably during Britain's Industrial Revolution.
cheese | 
coffee | Ottoman-origin beverage that spread through European coffeehouses, fostering Enlightenment-era public discourse.
convents | Communities of nuns that offered women religious life, education, and refuge across medieval and modern Europe.
dancing | 
fencing | 
gunpowder | Explosive compound imported via trade with Asia that revolutionized European siege warfare and artillery.
horse racing | 
hotels | 
hunting | 
kilts | Traditional Scottish Highland garment, banned after the Jacobite risings and later revived as a national symbol.
Leopold von Ranke | German historian often called the father of source-based modern historical scholarship.
Marc Bloch | French Annales school historian and resistance fighter, executed by the Gestapo in 1944.
matches | 
monks | 
nuns | Women religious living in convents, central to medieval education, charity, and Catholic spiritual life.
oil | 
opera houses | 
piracy | 
porcelain | Fine ceramic imported from China, later imitated by European manufactories like Meissen.
printing industry | Trade transformed by Gutenberg's movable type, spreading Reformation and Enlightenment ideas across Europe.
public executions | 
relics | Sacred remains or objects of saints, venerated and traded across medieval Christian Europe.
royal forests | Woodlands governed by medieval royal forest law, restricting hunting and land use for the crown's benefit.
sheep | Livestock central to medieval England's wool trade and later Spanish Mesta pastoral economy.
slaves | 
soccer | 
spices | Valuable Asian trade goods whose search drove Portuguese and Spanish voyages of exploration.
sugar | Colonial plantation crop whose Atlantic trade fueled European wealth and the transatlantic slave trade.
sumptuary laws | Regulations restricting extravagant dress and consumption by social class in medieval and early modern Europe.
tapestries | Woven textile artworks, such as the Bayeux Tapestry, depicting historical and mythological scenes.
tennis | Sport whose medieval "real tennis" precursor was popular among European royalty and nobility.
textiles | Woven cloth goods including wool and cotton, central to medieval trade and the Industrial Revolution.
the | 
The Sun | 
theaters | 
Tony Judt | British historian whose Postwar offers a sweeping account of Europe since 1945.
tournaments | Medieval chivalric contests of jousting and mock combat among knights, showcasing martial skill and status.
university students | 
white | 
witchcraft | Alleged sorcery whose accusations fueled early modern European witch trials amid religious upheaval.
Young | 

# Other
Jean-Baptiste Colbert | 
