=== STOCK CLUES: Nikos Kazantzakis ===
Tossup questions: 4 found, 23 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 6 found, 18 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Greece [or the Hellenic Republic] (The first sentence refers to Patouchas by Ioannis Kondylakis. The second sentence is about The Archeologist and Selected Sea Stories by Andreas Karkavitsas. Life in the Tomb is by Stratis Myrivilis. Number 31328 is by Elias Venezis. Death or Freedom and Zorba the Greek are by Nikos Kazantzakis.)
  - In a novel from this country, village women make sexual rhymes about the large feet of the title shepherd from the mountains. [PWR]
  - A Penguin Classic from this country collects several "sea stories" and an allegory about a pair of brothers, one obsessed with recovering artifacts from their estate. [PWR]
  - Naturalist war novels like Life in the Tomb and Number 31328 are characteristic of this country's Generation of the '30s.
  - In a novel sometimes titled for a (*) revolutionary slogan from this country, a man shouts it while clutching the severed head of his nephew, who died defending a monastery destroyed by a powder keg explosion.
  - In that novel from this country, Emine, the Muslim wife of his friend Nuri, is the beloved of Captain Michalis.
  - For 10 points, name this country where the author of Freedom or Death also wrote about a cook for a lignite mine. [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 Penn Bowl (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikos Kazantzakis
  - This author was bedridden with eczema during his stay in Vienna, which sped up his work on a spiritual book containing sections like "The Preparation" and "The Silence." In a poem written by this author, the soul of the main character separates from his body after his sailboat collides with an Antarctic iceberg. [PWR]
  - This author's frequent translator Kimon Friar argued that the philosophy of this author's book Saviors of God was echoed in a (*) 33,333-line poem by this author, which bills itself as a continuation of an earlier poem.
  - Two lovers in a novel by this author give each other the pen-names of Canavaro and Bouboulina; the title character of that novel by this author reopens a lignite mine on the island of Crete.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel and Zorba the Greek. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Nikos Kazantzakis
  - A novel by this author opens with a young man dreaming of a village that cries "How long?
  - How long?" That novel by this author ends with its title character repeatedly being called a "coward, deserter, traitor" before dying with the triumphant cry "IT IS ACCOMPLISHED!" A character created by this author uses the pet name "Canavaro" and peers through a cafe door to watch the narrator reading Dante.
  - In a novel by this author, Satan disguises himself as a guardian angel and persuades the protagonist to live a long life rather than being crucified.
  - In another novel by this author, the title character seduces the hotel-owner Madame Hortense and becomes the foreman on a disused lignite mine in Crete.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Last Temptation of Christ and Zorba the Greek. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Nikos Kazantzakis
  - This author wrote a "tragedy in one act" ironically called Comedy.
  - In an epic poem by this author, the protagonist is killed by an iceberg in Antarctica after meeting Motherth and Kapetan Enas.
  - The protagonist of that poem becomes an ascetic, introducing a theme which would be developed in his book of spiritual exercises, The Saviors of God.
  - His minor novels include The Fratricides and Serpent and Lily.
  - In one of his novels, Manolios plays the central character of a play which is staged every seven years in the village of Lycovrissi.
  - He also wrote a novel about Captain Michalis which is usually called Freedom or Death in English.
  - This author of a 33,333-verse sequel to The Odyssey wrote about a vivacious santuri player who seduces Madame Hortense in one novel.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Last Temptation of Christ and Zorba the Greek. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of this book claimed that he cut off his finger because it got in the way of his pottery wheel. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zorba the Greek):
    Name this novel, in which the narrator is inspired by the title character's love of life to sleep with a widow who is consequently beheaded. The two start a lignite mine together while staying at the hotel of Madame Hortense.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikos Kazantzakis (kah-zahn-dzah-knees)):
    This author of Zorba the Greek also wrote The Last Temptation of Christ and The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexandros Papadiamantis):
    This other Greek novelist of The Boundless Garden and The Gypsy Girl wrote about an old woman, Hadoula, who kills young girls to spare them a woman's hard life in The Murderess.

[B2] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The title character of one novel by this author is involved with the running of a lignite mine in Crete and emotionally in the prostitute Madame Hortense. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Nikos Kazantzakis):
    Identify this author of Zorba the Greek.
  Part 2 (ans: The Last Temptation of Christ):
    A black angel offers a pleasure filled life to title character of this Kazantzakis novel who constructs crosses for use in crucifixions.
  Part 3 (ans: Heliodorus of Emesa):
    This other rather more ancient Greek novelist wrote the romance Aethiopica in either the second or third century AD.

[B3] 2015 Penn Bowl (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator of this novel is reminded of the Buddha by his "internal no." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zorba the Greek):
    Name this novel, in which the narrator travels with the title character to Madame Hortense's hotel and goes to work in a lignite mine before the death of his friend Stavridakis.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikos Kazantzakis):
    Zorba the Greek was written by this author, who wrote the screenplay to The Last Temptation of Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: the Odyssey):
    In Kazantzakis' "modern sequel" to this work, the main character meets Don Quixote and Jesus before being killed by an iceberg. In this work, probably slightly more well known than its adaptation, the main character is attacked by Polyphemus and seduced by Circe as he tries to get home from the Trojan War.

[B4] 2014 College History Bowl (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Anthony Quinn starred in a film version of this novel directed by Dino De Laurentiis. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Barabbas):
    Identify this novel where the title character is forced to work in a Roman copper mine alongside Sahak. The title character of this novel had earlier murdered his father Eliahu.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikos Kazantzakis):
    Like Par Lagerkvist in Barabbas, this Greek author wrote a novel set during Jesus' crucifixion titled The Last Temptation of Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: Margarita):
    In another novel partially set during the time of Christ, this wife of a factory owner falls in love with a novelist and former museum worker. She then makes a deal with the devil, takes a bath with Azazello and flies naked on a broom to a ball in Apartment 50.

[B5] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel opens with a man reading The Divine Comedy while sitting in a cafe in Piraeus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Zorba the Greek [or Life and Adventures of Alexis Zorbas]):
    Name this novel whose title character calls Madame Hortense "Bouboulina" and wishes to open a mine in Crete.
  Part 2 (ans: Nikos Kazantzakis):
    This Greek novelist of Zorba the Greek also wrote The Last Tempation of Christ.
  Part 3 (ans: Manolios):
    This protagonist of Kazantzakis's The Greek Passion is a shepherd chosen to play Christ in the title play. He is ultimately murdered by his fellow villagers.

[B6] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A priest refuses to help a group of Turkish refugees in this novel and later excommunicates Manolios for trying to help them. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Greek Passion):
    Name this novel in which Manolios is selected to portray Jesus in a play and actually falls in love with Katerina who plays the role of Mary Magdalene.
  Part 2 (ans: Zorba the Greek):
    The author of The Greek Passion wrote this other work in which the title character seduces Bouboulina, a hotel owner whose real name is Madame Hortense. The title character accompanies the narrator to open a mine on Crete.
  Part 3 (ans: Nikos Kazantzakis):
    This author wrote of a rebellion against the Ottomans in Captain Michalis and also wrote The Greek Passion and Zorba the Greek.
