=== STOCK CLUES: Julio Cortazar ===
Tossup questions: 13 found, 62 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 29 found, 75 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Argentina [or Argentine Republic; or Republica Argentina; the unnamed story is Julio Cortazar's "House Taken Over"]
  - In a story set in this country, the narrator buys his sister Irene wool while also going to buy French literature. [PWR]
  - In a largely plotless novel from this country, the movie fanatic "Toto" writes an essay titled "The Movie I Liked Best." In a novel from this country, the story of a plantation owner who uses (*) zombies as workers is told to a man by his transgender cellmate. [PWR]
  - An author from this country wrote Betrayed by Rita Hayworth, and a different author from this country wrote about the spy Yu Tsun, who kills Stephen Albert to reveal the name of an artillery park to his spymasters.
  - For 10 points, name this South American country, home to Kiss of the Spider Woman author Manuel Puig and "The Garden of Forking Paths" author Jorge Luis Borges. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar]
  - A story by this author about a months-long traffic jam served as the inspiration for Jean-Luc Godard's film Week End. [PWR]
  - The Kid is killed by a tiger that wanders freely around the grounds in this author's story "Bestiary." The narrator of a story by this author is working as a translator when he discovers that a blonde woman was (*) propositioning a teenage boy on behalf of a man waiting in a car. [PWR]
  - In another story by this author, a visitor to the Jardin des Plantes in Paris is fascinated by, and eventually turns into, the title amphibian.
  - A photographer discovers a dead body in the film adaptation of a story by this author directed by Michelangelo Antonioni.
  - For 10 points, name this Argentinian author of "Axolotl," "Blow-Up," and the novel Hopscotch. [GIVE]

[T3] 2019 Penn Bowl (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - In one work, this author describes a woman's face with the "unfair words" "white" and "bleak," with eyes like "two puffs of green slime." "A marshy smell" and the smell of war unusually appear in a dream in a story by this author which repeats the phrase "war of the blossom." This author wrote a story in which two characters in a novel come to life to kill its reader and another where a motorcycle accident was actually a dream and the narrator's sacrifice by the Aztecs is real. [PWR]
  - This author of "The (*) Night Face Up" and "The Continuity of Parks" also wrote a story in which a man obsessively watches, then becomes, the title type of salamander, and a story in which the photographer Roberto Michel enlarges a picture of a seduction.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Axolotl" and "Blow-Up," who also wrote the nonlinear novel Hopscotch. [GIVE]

[T4] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar]
  - This author wrote about Juan's suspicions that Frau Marta is a vampire preying on English tourists in a subplot of a novel set in "the Zone" and "the City." One of this author's characters searches for what he calls "the kibbutz of desire." The narrator throws his house key in the sewer after fleeing his house with his knitting-obsessed sister Irene in this author's short story "House Taken Over." This man expanded his character Morelli's literary musings into a novel subtitled "A Model Kit." In a novel by this author, Osip Gregorovius nearly seduces Lucia, to the dismay of the protagonist, a member of a Parisian bohemian circle called the Serpent Club.
  - That novel by this author, about Horacio Oliveira and his lover La Maga, can be read in two different orders.
  - For 10 points, name this Argentine writer of Hopscotch. [GIVE]

[T5] 2018 WORLDSTAR (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - This writer described a month long trip from Paris to Marseille in a VW Camper van in which he and his wife Carol Dunlop stopped at every designated parking space in Los Autonautas de la comsopista. [PWR]
  - That work which includes images of logos and a fictional phone-call to Susan Sontag is Fantomas versus the Multinational Vampires. [PWR]
  - One of this author's books begins "I should like bloody castle" a request for a raw Chateaubriand steak which Juan, has translated into Spanish while sitting in a restaurant on Christmas Eve, thinking about thinking.
  - In this author's most famous novel, the protagonist is shown a picture of a death by a thousand cuts ceremony and becomes an (*) insane asylum attendant with his friend Traveler after leaving Paris without his girlfriend, La Maga.
  - For 10 points name this Argentine whose novel 62: A Model Kit is an attempt to meet to challenge of writing a novel not structured by psychology posed by Morelli in the 62nd chapter of his novel Hopscotch. [GIVE]

[T6] 2017 Skype Lit (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - A group of girls created by this author play the game of "Statues and Attitudes," in which they act like various emotions and mythological figures. [PWR]
  - The main character of a story by this author is convinced to move into his girlfriend's apartment where he starts vomiting rabbits everywhere and is driven to suicide. [PWR]
  - He wrote a story in which the narrator becomes angry at the Kid's abusive attitude towards Rima, so the narrator misinforms the Kid about the location of his family's (*) pet tiger and the Kid gets mauled to death. [PWR]
  - This author of "End of the Game" and "Letter to a Young Lady in Paris" wrote a story in which a man who repeatedly watches an aquarium at the Jardin des Plantes undergoes a mental transformation into a fish.
  - For 10 points, name this author of "Bestiary" and "Axolotl." [GIVE]

[T7] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - This author wrote a short story, dedicated "In memoriam Ch. [PWR]
  - P.", in which Bruno follows the heroin-addicted jazz saxophonist Johnny Carter.
  - In another story by this writer, the narrator goes to the Jardin des Plantes to observe the title salamanders before turning into one himself. [PWR]
  - This author of (+) The Pursuer and Axolotl wrote of a man imagining himself in a motorcycle accident before being being put to death in the War of the Blossoms at the hands of the Motecas, an (*) Aztec tribe.
  - This man also wrote of Letitia and Holanda playing Statues and Attitudes by the train tracks, and in another work, of a photographer tortured by a picture he took that prevented the seduction of an adolescent boy.
  - For ten points, name this author of The Night Face Up, The End of the Game, and Blow Up, an Argentine. [GIVE]

[T8] 2015 NASAT (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar]
  - This author wrote a story in which a hospitalized motorcyclist intermittently dreams of being a sacrificial victim.
  - The protagonist of a novel by him barricades himself in a room filled with traps consisting of yarn and basins of water to protect himself from a circus worker.
  - While walking along the Seine, the protagonist of another story by this author observes a woman seducing a teenage boy, and then enlarges a photograph he takes of the scene.
  - He wrote a novel in which the protagonist confuses Talita, the wife of Traveler, with La Maga, a member of the bohemian Serpent Club.
  - That book by him is about Horacio Oliveira, contains 99 expendable chapters, and can be read nonlinearly.
  - For 10 points, name this Argentine author of Hopscotch. [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - A story by this author ends with the archaeologist Morand licking blood off a stone hatchet which he used to kill a colleague.
  - A character created by this author annotates the Dylan Thomas poem "The Mask" and dies after declaring that he wants to give up jazz and move to Mexico.
  - This author of "The Idol of the Cyclades" included the saxophonist Johnny in his story "The Pursuer," and also created the photographer Roberto Michel, who unwittingly captures a crime on camera. 99 "expendable chapters" appear in a novel by this author, in which a search through Paris for La Maga is undertaken by Horacio Oliveira, and a "Table of Instructions" encourages reading in many non-linear orders.
  - For 10 points, name this Argentine author of "Blow Up" and Hopscotch. [GIVE]

[T10] 2014 NASAT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - This author wrote a short story in which Holanda, Letitia, and the narrator play the game "Statues and Attitudes." One of this author's novels includes a scene in which everyone in a room is aware that the baby in their presence is dead except the baby's mother.
  - The VIP is kidnapped by the revolutionary group "the Screwery" in this author's novel A Manual for Manuel.
  - He wrote a novel in which La Maga is brought to the Serpent Club by Horacio Oliveira.
  - That novel of his provides a "Table of Instructions" instructing the reader to start at chapter 73 and then alternate back and forth.
  - For 10 points, name this Argentinian novelist, the author of Hopscotch. [GIVE]

[T11] 2013 Arrabal (2013) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: short stories of Julio Cortazar
  - One of these works is dedicated "In memoriam" to Charlie Parker, who is fictionalized in that work as the jazz musician Johnny.
  - In another of these works, Pierre, who had raped Michele, is murdered with a shotgun by Roland.
  - In addition to "The Pursuer," these works include one in which Somoza attempts to kill Morand, but is killed himself as a sacrifice to the titular "Idol of the Cyclade." Another one of these works takes the form of a letter to a woman named "Andrea" and ends with the narrator's suicide by jumping out of a window along with the small bunnies that he has vomited up.
  - The narrator Michel initiates an investigation based on the results of the title action that he performs on a photograph of a couple in the park in one of these works, while in another, the narrator stares so long at the title creatures in the zoo that he becomes one of them.
  - For 10 points, identify these works which include "Secret Weapons," "Letter to a Young Lady in Paris," "Blow-Up," and "Axolotl." [GIVE]

[T12] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - This author wrote a story in which Ariel leaves notes for adolescent girls Holanda and Letitia after seeing them play a secret game called "Statues and Attitudes" while passing nearby on the train. [PWR]
  - He wrote about Rice going to the Aldwych Theater where he's asked at intermission by the title actor to take over his role in the play. [PWR]
  - In addition to "Instructions for John Howell," this author of "End of the Game" wrote a story about a young man who becomes so nervous about moving into his girlfriend's Paris apartment that he starts vomiting bunny rabbits.
  - Another story ends when "the Kid" is killed after Isabel gives him the wrong info about the whereabouts of a tiger who wanders through their summer house.
  - This (*) author of "Bestiary" wrote about a visitor to the Jardin des Plantes who obsessively watches the title animals.
  - This author of "Axolotl" also wrote a story where Roberto Michel agonizes over photos he took of a woman approaching a young boy in a park near the Seine.
  - FTP, name this Argentine author who wrote the story "Blow-Up".

[T13] 2012 ACF Regionals (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Julio Cortazar
  - A narrator based on Che Guevara compares Mozart's "The Hunt" to the progress of Cuba's revolution in this man's story "Reunion," and that revolution was the topic of the "Letter to Roberto Fernandez Retamar." This man dedicated to Charlie Parker a story narrated by Bruno, who publishes a recording of "Amorous" by the saxophonist Johnny Carter.
  - This author of Around the Day in Eighty Worlds and "The Pursuer" created the famas and cronopios and wrote a novel that includes the literary criticism of Morelli in its 116th chapter.
  - In that novel, the protagonist joins Traveler and Talita in working at an insane asylum, while the "Table of Instructions" helps the reader navigate the "expendable" chapters.
  - For 10 points, name this man who wrote of Oliveira's search for La Maga in his novel Hopscotch. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: In a novel by this author, the London actress Sonia stars in a staging of Hamlet in the West Bank during her trip to visit her sister Haneen in Haifa. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Isabella Hammad [or Isabella Mariam S. Hammad]):
    Name this author of the novel Enter Ghost, who wrote about the Palestinian struggle and the role of anagnorisis scenes in the long essay Recognizing the Stranger: On Palestine and Narrative.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Said [or Edward Wadie Said]):
    Hammad's ideas on narration borrow from this writer's essay "Permission to Narrate." This Palestinian-American critic discussed Mansfield Park's depiction of slavery in a chapter of Culture and Imperialism.
  Part 3 (ans: Paris [accept The Parisian; accept "Letter to a Young Lady in Paris"] (by Julio Cortazar)):
    Recognizing the Stranger discusses Hammad's experience writing about her grandfather in her debut novel titled for this city. The narrator of a story titled for this city begins to vomit rabbits while staying in his friend's apartment.

[B2] 2025 ACF Winter (2025) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Guadalupe Nettel's short story "Ptosis" ("TOE-sis") follows a photographer working in this city who becomes infatuated with an eyelid surgery patient. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Paris):
    Name this city where a photographer in another story reimagines a scene of a boy being propositioned in a park while translating a treatise by Jose Norberto Allende.
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar]):
    That Parisian photographer appears in this author's story "Blow-Up." This Argentine-French author described a narrator's obsession with the title creature's "golden eyes" while visiting the Jardin des Plantes ("zhar-DAHN day plant")in the story "Axolotl."
  Part 3 (ans: letters [accept "Letter to a Young Lady in Paris"]):
    The narrator describes vomiting rabbits and jumping out of a window in another Cortazar story framed as one of these works "to a Young Lady in Paris." These works make up epistolary literature.

[B3] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: At a cabin, a woman in this one-page story kisses the bloodied face of her knife-wielding lover before they depart on opposite-facing paths. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Continuity of Parks" [or "Continuidad de los parques"]):
    Name this metafictional short story. In this story, a man sitting in a green velvet armchair reads about two lovers' plan to murder a man who is reading a novel while sitting in a green velvet armchair.
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    "The Continuity of Parks" is a short story by this Argentine author who also wrote the optionally nonlinear novel Hopscotch.
  Part 3 (ans: Paris):
    Hopscotch is primarily set in this city, where Horacio Oliveira searches for his lover La Maga. The narrator of another Cortazar story is entranced by the "golden eyes" of the titular axolotl in a botanical garden in this city.

[B4] 2025 ACF Nationals (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's essay "Some Aspects of the Short Story" instructs Cubans on writing about revolution by contrasting a simple war story with "The Monkey's Paw." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar] (The novel is Hopscotch.)):
    Name this author who was pressured to resign his professorship in 1946 and self-exiled to Paris, where he set parts of his collection Bestiary and a novel with 99 "expendable" chapters.
  Part 2 (ans: "House Taken Over" [or "Casa Tomada"]):
    Cortazar likely allegorized Juan Peron's government in this story, in which strange noises force the narrator and his sister Irene into progressively smaller areas of their home.
  Part 3 (ans: exams [or tests; accept standardized tests; accept Chilean Academic Aptitude Test; accept Final Exam or El examen; accept Multiple Choice]):
    One of these things titles a Cortazar novel written on the eve of Peron's fall, in which Juan and Clara wander a foggy Buenos Aires. Passages critiquing Pinochet litter a novel by Alejandro Zambra structured as one of these things.

[B5] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship Qualifier (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote the lines "I jumped from myself to dawn / I left my body next to the light / and sang the sadness of being born." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alejandra Pizarnik [or Flora Pizarnik]):
    Name this Argentinian poet of The Tree of Diana. This author pulled from a Hieronymus Bosch painting for her collection Extracting the Stone of Madness.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz [Octavio Paz Lozano]):
    This Mexican poet wrote the prologue to The Tree of Diana. He described "a crystal willow, a poplar of water" in his poem "Sunstone."
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar [Julio Florencio Cortazar]):
    While living in Paris, Pizarnik agreed to type up a manuscript by this author, but then lost it. That novel by this author is about Horacio Oliveira and the Serpent Club.

[B6] 2024 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: These books often depicted mother pelicans resurrecting their young with their own blood, an analogy to the sacrifice of Jesus. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: bestiaries [or bestiary]):
    Name these books popular in medieval Europe, which contained pictures and stories of animals and mythical creatures.
  Part 2 (ans: Isidore of Seville (The encyclopedia is the Etymologiae)):
    The 12th book of a 20-book encyclopedia by this scholar consists of a bestiary. With his brother Leander, this scholar persuaded the Visigothic kingdom to adopt Catholicism.
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar]):
    Isabel and the Kid spend time in a house that also is home to a tiger in this author's short story "Bestiary." This author's other stories include "House Taken Over" and "The Continuity of Parks."

[B7] 2024 ESPN (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: One of the epigraphs to Alejandra Pizarnik's poem "Of the Silence" quotes a character's summary of this poem as "Somebody killed something." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Jabberwocky"):
    Name this poem. A Douglas Hofstadter essay on "Translations of" this poem ponders how French and German translations of it exemplify the problem of finding "the same node" in two "extremely nonisomorphic" networks.
  Part 2 (ans: madness [accept being mad or Mad Hatter]):
    Pizarnik borrows two epigraphs from Lewis Carroll in a collection titled for Extracting the Stone of this condition. Carroll also created a Hatter named for this condition in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar [or Julio Florencio Cortazar] (The short story is "The Continuity of Parks.")):
    After Pizarnik's suicide, this friend of hers wrote a poem in which Pizarnik enters "the garden where Alice was waiting for her." The narrator of a short story by this author reads a novel in which two lovers part ways at a mountain cabin so that the man can kill her husband.

[B8] 2023 NASAT (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A story by this author contains the diary entries of Alina Reyes, who experiences a mysterious connection to a beggar in Budapest. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    Name this author, whose story "The Distances" is often anthologized with the story "Blow-Up". This Argentine author depicted Horacio Oliveira's search for La Maga in the novel Hopscotch.
  Part 2 (ans: idols [or idolos, or statues, or statuettes, or chacmools, or replicas of gods or sculptures]):
    Another Cortazar story is narrated by Gilbert Durand, whose colleague Somoza is driven mad by one of these objects. Filbert dies by drowning soon after finding rain in his bedroom in a different author's story titled for one of these objects.
  Part 3 (ans: Carlos Fuentes):
    This author depicted Filbert's death using diary entries in the story "Chac Mool". Ludovico, Celestina and King Philip II are reborn in many different ages in this author's novel Terra Nostra.

[B9] 2023 ACF Winter (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a poem by an author from this country says, "The desire to die is king. / May your body always be / a beloved space for revelations." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Argentina [or Argentine Republic or Republica Argentina] (The novel is Hopscotch by Julio Cortazar, who Pizarnik befriended in Paris.)):
    Name this birth country of Alejandra Pizarnik. An author who grew up in this country wrote "Axolotl" and a 55-chapter novel with 9 "expendable chapters" that can be read in two different sequences.
  Part 2 (ans: Octavio Paz):
    After moving from Argentina to Paris, Pizarnik befriended this author, who wrote the prologue for her collection The Tree of Diana. This Mexican author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude.
  Part 3 (ans: stones [or piedra; accept "Black Stone on a White Stone" or "Black Stone Lying on a White Stone" or "Piedra negra sobre una piedra blanca" or Extracting the Stone of Madness or Extraccion de la piedra de locura]):
    Pizarnik included the poem "Revelations" in a 1968 collection titled for one of these objects. In a Cesar Vallejo poem titled for these objects, the speaker says "I will die in Paris, on a rainy day."

[B10] 2023 ACF Regionals (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a short story, the narrator compares these animals to "Chinese figurines of milky glass" and muses that "larva means disguise and also phantom." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: axolotls [or ajolotes; or axolotl; prompt on salamanders or amphibians]):
    Name these animals whose "eyes of gold" and "terrifying purity" fascinate the narrator. The narrator then transforms into one of these animals in the Jardin des Plantes ("jar-DAN day PLANT").
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    This author's short stories include "Axolotl" and "Blow-Up," which inspired a film by Michelangelo Antonioni. This author wrote the novel Hopscotch.
  Part 3 (ans: "The Continuity of Parks" [or "Continuidad de los parques"]):
    This Cortazar story was published in the same collection as "Axolotl." In this metafictional story, a man sits in a high-backed green velvet chair to read a novel in which another man enters his house to kill him.

[B11] 2023 ACF Nationals (2023) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: While translating a treatise by Jose Norberto Allende, the narrator of this short story becomes overwhelmed by the slow stirring of a woman's hands. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Blow-Up" [or "Las babas del diablo" or "Devil's Spit" or similar translations]):
    Name this short story in which the narrator does not realize until later that he had inadvertently rescued a young boy who was being propositioned by an older woman by the Seine, angering a previously unnoticed man in a grey hat.
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar ("cor-TAH-sar") [or Julio Florencio Cortazar]):
    "Blow-Up" is by this Argentine author, who included 99 "expendable" chapters in the novel Hopscotch.
  Part 3 (ans: Ernesto Cardenal [or Ernesto Cardenal Martinez; prompt on Martinez]):
    The narrator of a Cortazar story is disturbed by the photos he takes of local peasants during his visit to this author. This poet-priest, who founded an artists' colony in the Solentiname Islands, wrote Zero Hour and Cosmic Canticle.

[B12] 2022 Winter Closed (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the influence of Edgar Allan Poe's short stories on world literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Japan [or Nihon-koku or Nippon-koku] (The pen name is Edogawa Ranpo. The story in the second sentence is "Hell Screen" by Ryunosuke Akutagawa.)):
    A rendering of Poe's name inspired the pseudonym of an author from this country who wrote the story "The Human Chair." A Poe superfan from this country wrote a horror story in which an artist inadvertently causes his daughter to be burned alive in order to complete his depiction of the underworld.
  Part 2 (ans: Horacio Quiroga ("kee-ROH-gah") (The story is "The Feather Pillow.")):
    This author listed Poe as a master whom one should believe in "as in God himself" in his Ten Rules for the Perfect Storyteller. Critics often note Poe's influence on a story by this author in which a woman is sapped of life by a mysterious creature on her honeymoon.
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    This author helped popularize Poe's stories among the Latin American Boom with his complete translation of Poe's prose works. This Argentine author also wrote the novel Hopscotch.

[B13] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about novels that can be read in multiple orders:
  Part 1 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    This Argentinian author provided a non-linear path for readers to approach the chapters of his novel Hopscotch.
  Part 2 (ans: Ali Smith):
    This author's novel How to Be Both was published in two different orders; some copies start with George's contemporary story, and others with Francesco's Renaissance-era story. The last part of this writer's "Seasonal Quartet," Summer, debuted in 2020.
  Part 3 (ans: The Unfortunates):
    According to Wikipedia, there are fifteen and half septimillion orders in which one can read this experimental "book in a box" by B.S. Johnson about a journalist who reflects on his life while covering a soccer match in Nottingham.

[B14] 2021 Chicago Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator describes the street as a "busy wilderness," where he "stakes [his] life" to pick up a newspaper, in a story titled for these works from the collection Cronopios and Famas. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: instruction manuals [accept either underlined portion, or instrucciones, or sets of instructions; prompt on manuals or introductions]):
    Identify these works. Another example of them which appears at the beginning of a book notes that "there are two books above all" within the following contents, and informs the reader that "three garish little stars" stand in for the words "The End."
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar ("core-TAH-sar")):
    "The Instruction Manual" is a story by this Latin American author, who wrote a "Table of Instructions" that suggests two different orders for reading one of his novels.
  Part 3 (ans: ants [or hormigas; accept any specific type of ant]):
    Among the bizarre "instructions" in Cronopios and Famas is a plan to stop these animals from taking over Rome by drowning them in fountain waters. In Cortazar's story "Bestiary," Rema strongly disapproves of Isabel and Nino keeping a number of these animals, which the children admire for not needing to fear the tiger.

[B15] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a story by this author, a man reading a novel in a green velvet armchair becomes engrossed in the plot, in which a couple sets out to murder a man who is reading a novel in a green velvet armchair. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    Name this Argentine author of the story "The Continuity of Parks." He provided a "Table of Instructions" for a nonlinear reading of his novel Hopscotch.
  Part 2 (ans: axolotl [or ajolote; prompt on salamander]):
    In another Cortazar story, the narrator obsesses over these creatures. He stares at these creatures for hours at a time while frequenting the Jardin des Plantes, before eventually turning into one himself.
  Part 3 (ans: human sacrifice [prompt on answers like murder or killing]):
    Cortazar's story "The Night Face Up" ends with a man desperately trying to wake up as one of these events is about to occur. In Cortazar's "The Idol of the Cyclades," Somoza is killed while attempting one of these events.

[B16] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This story begins, "Their honeymoon was one long shudder." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "The Feather Pillow" [or "El almohadon de plumas"; or variant translations]):
    Name this story by the "Edgar Allan Poe of South America," Horacio Quiroga ("oh-RAHSS-yo kee-ROH-ga"). It ends as Jordan ("hor-DAHN") slashes open the title object to discover that it contains a parasite that has been sucking the blood out of his wife Alicia.
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    Edgar Allan Poe influenced this author whose character Roberto Michel discovers that a photograph he took prevented a teenage boy's seduction in the story "Blow-Up."
  Part 3 (ans: he vomits rabbits [accept equivalents; accept answers indicating that he is creating rabbits; prompt on answers like vomiting animals or creating animals that do not specify what animals] (The story is "Letter to a Young Lady in Paris.")):
    The narrator of a Cortazar story writes letters to Andrea detailing this bizarre affliction of his, which intrudes upon the "compact order" of a house that he otherwise leaves undisturbed. Though the narrator tries to hide its products in an armoire, this condition eventually drives him to jump off a balcony.

[B17] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This section urges the reader to follow reading methods that both parallel and ironically cause the reader to skip the polemic ramblings of a mysterious writer. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Table of Instructions" [accept "Tablero de direccion"; accept descriptions such as the introduction or beginning or author's note or prologue of Hopscotch or Rayuela; do not accept any answers indicating that this section is the first chapter]):
    Name or describe this section that notes how, of the 155 chapters of the novel it appears in, the last 99 chapters are "expendable." It advises the reader to read the novel's chapters in various different orders and combinations.
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    The "Table of Instructions" opens Hopscotch, which is a novel by this author who also wrote short stories such as "Blow-Up" and "Axolotl."
  Part 3 (ans: Morelli [accept Morelliana]):
    The "Table of Instructions" often leads readers into skipping chapters told from the perspective of this mysterious writer, who is theorized to be the true author of Hopscotch within the narrative. This writer uniquely titles several chapters in Hopscotch, including one that is supposedly "Written by [him] in the hospital."

[B18] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The title object of a story by this author has manifested as a 20-cent coin, an astrolabe, the implication of the bottom of a well, and an actual living tiger. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Jorge Luis Borges ("BOR-hays")):
    Name this author whose story "The Zahir" describes an object that drives people to obsession, until they can no longer perceive reality. This author also wrote "Death and the Compass."
  Part 2 (ans: Edgar Allan Poe):
    Murderers obsess over their victims' teeth and imaginary beating hearts, respectively, in this author's stories "Berenice" and "The Tell-Tale Heart."
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    In this author's story "The Idol of the Cyclades," the title object inspires the archaeologist Morand to strip naked and prepare to kill his wife after earlier thwarting Somoza's similar murder attempt by killing him. This author catalogued his travels through France with Carol Dunlop in The Autonauts of the Cosmoroute.

[B19] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author's story "Idea for a Short Documentary Film" states, in its entirety: "Representatives of different food products manufacturers try to open their own packaging." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lydia Davis):
    Identify this American author of flash fiction, whose third collection of stories, Samuel Johnson is Indignant, explains its title with the simple fact "that Scotland has so few trees." Her other collections include Varieties of Disturbance.
  Part 2 (ans: McSweeney's [or Timothy McSweeney's Quarterly Concern]):
    Davis's wordplay-heavy story "A Mown Lawn" first appeared in the "quarterly concern" of this publishing house founded by Dave Eggers, which also maintains a humor website called its "Internet Tendency."
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar ("core-TAH-sar")):
    Davis's story "In a House Besieged" bears significant similarities to this Argentinean author's story "House Taken Over," which he included in his collection Blow-up. He also wrote the experimental novel Hopscotch.

[B20] 2017 WAO II (2017) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: For 10 points each, name answer some questions about fictional languages in literature.
  Part 1 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    In one novel, this author created a language called Gliglico, which the protagonist uses to correspond with his lover La Maga. This author of Hopscotch also inspired a Michelangelo Antonioni film with his story "Blow-Up."
  Part 2 (ans: Nadsat):
    Anthony Burgess created this slang form of English, heavily permeated by Russian words. In this language, the "orange" in A Clockwork Orange actually means "man."
  Part 3 (ans: R'lyehian [accept Cthuvian]):
    This language, whose "ghastly, infra-bass timbre [speaks] to dim seats of consciousness and terror far subtler than the ear" was brought to earth by star-spawn during the Paleozoic. It is named for the underwater city where "dread Cthulhu waits dreaming."

[B21] 2017 Penn Bowl (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This author wrote arguably the world's shortest story: "When he woke up, the dinosaur was still there." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Augusto Monterroso):
    Name this author of short short stories such as "The Black Sheep" and "The Tortoise and Achilles." His only novel, The Rest is Silence, depicts the life of Eduardo Torres from many sources.
  Part 2 (ans: Latin American Boom):
    Monterroso was a participant in this 1960s-1970s Latin American movement, which included Gabriel Garcia Marquez, among others.
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    This other Boom writer of Hopscotch also wrote short stories, describing a haunting in "House Taken Over," a man turning into the title creature in "Axolotl," and Michel photographing a seduction in "Blow-Up."

[B22] 2017 Letras (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about Argentine literature:
  Part 1 (ans: Martin Fierro [or El gaucho Martin Fierro]):
    This epic poem by the Argentine writer Jose Hernandez is centred on the life of the titular gaucho, and on his contribution to the national development of Argentina.
  Part 2 (ans: Jorge Francisco Isidoro LuisBorges):
    This author analysed Martin Fierro, commenting that its aesthetic merit does not indicate moral merit for its protagonist. In 1933, he first published the pieces collected as A Universal History of Infamy. This collection includes several literary forgeries which anticipate this author's Tlon, Uqbar, Orbis Tertius.
  Part 3 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    Chilean novelist Roberto Bolano cited Borges and this author as key influences on his novel The Savage Detectives. Michelangelo Antonioni's film Blowup was inspired by this writer's story Las babas del diablo, while Jean-Luc Godard based his film Week-End on this author's La autopista del sur.

[B23] 2017 Chicago Open (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel begins with the narrator dropping her college diploma, and imagining Osamu Dazai giving her some lingerie and Yukio Mishima giving her a picture frame, inspiring her to write. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Notes of a Crocodile):
    Name this novel by Qiu Miaojin narrated by the college student Lazi and set in 1980s Taipei. It consists of eight notebooks "assembled" by Lazi, many of which describe her lesbian affections for the older student Shui Ling.
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar [or Jules Florencio Cortazar]):
    Qiu Miaojin's other novel, Letters from Montmartre, consists of 20 letters that can be read in any order, bringing it a sort of indeterminacy similar to this other author's novel whose expendable chapters can be skipped, Hopscotch.
  Part 3 (ans: Kobo Abe [or Kimifusa Abe]):
    In Notes of a Crocodile, the crocodile at one point names all of her love interests after this author. A man with amnesia seeks to recall his past in the title story of this author's collection Beyond the Curve.

[B24] 2017 ACF Regionals (2017) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, the artist Jed Martin begins a relationship with Olga Sheremoyova after telling her that he has taken over 800 photographs of Michelin travel guides. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Map and the Territory [or La carte et le territoire]):
    Name this novel in which Jed becomes famous by painting his Series of Simple Professions. One portrait in the series depicts this novel's author, Michel Houellebecq (whell-beck), who is murdered in his home by a thief using a laser cutter.
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar [or Jules Florencio Cortazar]):
    In a story by this author, Roberto Michel takes a photograph of what he believes to be a blonde woman seducing a teenage boy. This Argentinian author of "Blow-Up" also wrote the stories "Continuity of Parks" and "Axolotl" (AX-uh-LOT-ull).
  Part 3 (ans: prime minister of the United Kingdom [accept PM]):
    In Ian McEwan's Amsterdam, Vernon Halliday obtains photographs of Julian Garmony cross-dressing. Garmony is preparing to vie for this governmental position, which was held by Tony Blair when Amsterdam was published.

[B25] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel consists of dialogue in which each character is represented by a dash, and its implied protagonist is an un-named female author who is recovering from an affair with her ex-professor, Jabali. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Yo-Yo Boing!):
    Name this Spanglish novel by Puerto Rican author Giannina Braschi, which consists of the sections "Close-Up," "Blow-Up," and "Black-Out."
  Part 2 (ans: Julio Cortazar):
    A different work called "Blow-Up," originally titled "The Devil's Drool," is by this Argentine author of 62: A Model Kit and Hopscotch.
  Part 3 (ans: Gregory Rabassa):
    This American translator and friend of Cortazar's launched his own career with his translation of Hopscotch. He also created the most popular English translations of One Hundred Years of Solitude and Chronicle of a Death Foretold.
