=== STOCK CLUES: Ford Madox Brown ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 13 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 5 found, 15 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 Semi-Serious Charity Tournament (2021) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Brown [accept Ford Madox Brown or Lancelot Brown or Capability Brown]
  - An artist of this surname included a portrait of Thomas Carlyle on the right side of a painting showing a political campaign for Carlyle's corrupt character Bobus. [PWR]
  - An architect of this surname dammed the River Glyme to create a set of water terraces and planted the Great Vine at (*) Hampton Court Palace. [PWR]
  - A painter of this surname showed laborers replacing a roadway with a tunnel in Work.
  - For 10 points, give this surname of Pre-Raphaelite artist Ford Madox and the garden designer nicknamed "Capability." [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ford Madox Brown
  - In one work by this artist, a page carries a stack of books and listens to the central figure while John of Gaunt sits with his left hand on his hip.
  - In another work by this artist, a child sits on a coal barge and raises her tricorn hat while a flute band plays at the opening of the Bridgewater Canal.
  - In a work by this painter, the title activity is observed by Frederick Maurice and Thomas Carlyle and, in another, a migrant couple huddle under an umbrella at sea before the White Cliffs of Dover.
  - For ten points, name this English artist of the Pre-Raphaelite style, creator of the Manchester Murals, The Last of England, and Work. [GIVE]

[T3] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Ford Madox Brown
  - In one painting, this artist showed a boy laying face-down on a plank across a pond, while, in the center, John Dalton collects marsh gas for his scientific experiments.
  - This artist, who painted the Lord Protector in conversation with John Milton in Cromwell, Protector of the Vaudois, depicted The Romans Building a Fort at Mancenion in the first of his cycle of twelve murals adorning Manchester Town Hall.
  - An umbrella is held over a woman wearing a pink ribbon in her bonnet in a circular seascape by this artist that was inspired by Thomas Woolner's emigration to Australia.
  - Thomas Carlyle can be seen on the right of a canvas that this man spent thirteen years working on that depicts British bourgeois to the left and laborers struggling to earn a living in its center.
  - For 10 points, name this painter of The Last of England and Work who was a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, and whose grandson wrote The Good Soldier. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Name these families associated with the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Rossetti family [accept Dante Gabriel Rossetti]):
    William Michael, a member of this family, edited the Pre-Raphaelite magazine The Germ. William's better-known brother from this family illustrated one of his own poems in The Blessed Damozel.
  Part 2 (ans: Madox Brown family [accept Lucy Madox Brown or Ford Madox Brown]):
    Catherine and Lucy were two painters from this family, with the latter best known for her watercolors depicting Shakespeare scenes. Another of its members depicted a wide range of social classes in the painting Work.
  Part 3 (ans: Solomon family):
    Three children from this Jewish family - Rebecca, Simeon, and Abraham - all became Pre-Raphaelite painters, with the latter having his painting career cut short by an 1874 arrest on sodomy charges.

[B2] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In the top left corner of this painting, a feces-covered sign reads "Vote for Bobus," a reference to a character created by Thomas Carlyle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Work):
    Name this painting in which Carlyle himself appears on the right side. This painting depicts people of various social classes watching workers dig up a road.
  Part 2 (ans: Ford Madox Brown):
    Work is the best known painting by this pre-Raphaelite, the grandfather of the author of Parade's End.
  Part 3 (ans: John La Farge):
    Brown's portrait of Louis IX for the All Saints Church in Cambridge was done in Stained Glass. This American artist, a contemporary of Louis Comfort Tiffany, decorated the interior of Boston's Trinity Church and received the Legion d'honneur for inventing opalescent stained glass.

[B3] 2015 Missouri Open (2015) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The orchard of fruit in this painting was described as for "the dainty feast of the soul." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Light of the World):
    Identify this painting which illustrates a quote from Revelation 3:20. It depicts a crowned Jesus knocking on a door without handles.
  Part 2 (ans: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    The painter of The Light of the World, William Holman Hunt, was a member of this group of artists that rejected the influence of a specific Italian painter.
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Brown):
    This Pre-Raphaelite artist of the Manchester Murals was inspired by the emigration of his friend Thomas Woolner to create a painting of a couple in a boat called The Last of England.

[B4] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about murals, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Diego Rivera [or, of course, Diego Maria de la Concepcion Juan Nepomuceno Estanislao de la Rivera y Barrientos Acosta y Rodriguez]):
    Perhaps the foremost proponent of Mexican muralism was this painter of the Detroit Industry murals and Man, Controller of the Universe, also known for his turbulent marriage to Frida Kahlo.
  Part 2 (ans: New York City [or NYC; reverse-prompt on "Harlem"]):
    Aaron Douglas's murals for the Schomburg Center can be found in this American city. Romare Bearden and Jacob Lawrence, the latter of whom painted the Migration Series, also gained fame while working in this city.
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Brown):
    This Englishman was commissioned to paint the six Manchester Murals after the success of his artistic depiction of Victorian society, the painting Work. He used himself and his wife Emma as models for his The Last of England.

[B5] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One member of this group painted a stained glass window depicting David's charge to Solomon for a church in Boston; that member was Edward Burne-Jones. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pre-Raphaelites Brotherhood [or PRB]):
    Name this group of artists that included Dante Gabriel Rossetti, John Everett Millais, and William Holman Hunt, which sought to resurrect classicism over the Mannerist style popular at the time.
  Part 2 (ans: Ophelia):
    A famous painting by the pre-Raphaelite is this Millais work showing a Shakespearean character in a purplish dress floating in a small pond next to some flowers.
  Part 3 (ans: Ford Madox Brown):
    This other pre-Raphaelite painter painted a work showing a pair of emigrants called The Last of England and a painting depicting the transition from agricultural to industrial society entitled Work.
