=== STOCK CLUES: Christopher Wren ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 16 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 8 found, 24 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 QB League Season 1 (2021) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christopher Wren
  - This man illustrated the book that introduced the word "neurology". [PWR]
  - This man inspired the design of the Provincetown Heritage Museum, which appears in a Charles Demuth painting titled After this man. [PWR]
  - The illustrations for Thomas Willis's Cerebri Anatome were created by this man, who lamented "ladies think nothing well without an edging." This namesake of the oldest building on the campus of William & Mary took on Nicholas (*) Hawksmoor as an apprentice.
  - This architect designed the library of Trinity College Cambridge and the Old Royal Naval College in Greenwich.
  - For 10 points, name this architect whose 54 London churches include St Paul's Cathedral. [GIVE]

[T2] 2016 ACF Fall (2016) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Christopher Wren
  - The first resident of one of this architect's homes was John Flamsteed.
  - That building designed by this man was bombed by Martial Bourdin in the first international terrorist attack.
  - The cornice of one of this man's buildings contains a whispering gallery.
  - This man designed a golden urn of fire to be placed atop a 202 foot monument that he designed.
  - The oldest collegiate building in the US, which is located at William and Mary, was designed by this architect who also designed the Royal Observatory at Greenwich.
  - For 10 points, identify this English architect who designed St. [GIVE]
  - Paul's Cathedral after the Great Fire of London.

[T3] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Sir Christopher Wren
  - One building this man worked on required the design of a "geometrical flat floor" roof, as it was originally based on the Theatre of Marcellus which lacked a roof. [PWR]
  - This man designed a fluted Doric column with an interior staircase that allows visitors to reach the urn of fire on top; that sculpture is usually called "the Monument." Though he is definitely the designer of the Sheldonian theater, credit for many of his other works are now given to members of his office like (*) Nicholas Hawskmoor. [PWR]
  - He may be most famous for a building with woodwork by Grinling Gibbons, domes inspired by Mansart's Val-de-Grace, and a facade with sets of paired Corinthian columns.
  - For 10 points, name this architect behind the current St Paul's Cathedral. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2023 Canadian Novice (2023) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The dome of this building was inspired by the Romanesque lantern at Ely, where the architect's uncle was bishop. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: St. Paul's Cathedral):
    Name this cathedral, whose dome Nikolaus Pevsner dubbed "the most perfect in the world". The tomb of this building's architect is contained within and reads "reader, if you seek his monument - look around you".
  Part 2 (ans: London):
    St. Paul's is the mother church of this city, which is also the site of Temple Church and Westminster Abbey.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Wren):
    This lead architect of St. Paul's cathedral was commissioned to design fifty-two churches after the Fire of London in 1666.

[B2] 2020 Oxford Open (2020) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One of this architect's most notable achievements was constructing a dam on the River Glyme to form the Great Lake in front of Blenheim Palace. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Capability Brown):
    Name this figure who originally worked under William Kent. Extremely popular for their harmonious, un-stylized designs, they became known by a word they used to assess properties they were hired to improve.
  Part 2 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    Blenheim the building was designed partly by Nicholas Hawksmoor, who previously worked as an assistant to this other architect. This architect designed St. Paul's Cathedral after the Great Fire of London.
  Part 3 (ans: Castle Howard):
    In addition to making badly-needed repairs to Beverley Minster, Hawksmoor also worked in Yorkshire on the design of this stately home. Among his contributions to this site's gardens are a large pyramid and the first free-standing mausoleum in Europe since Roman times.

[B3] 2018 Penn Bowl (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man commissioned original books by Arthur Conan Doyle and M. R. James to be produced in miniature for the incredibly realistic Queen Mary Dolls' House. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Edwin Lutyens ("LUTT-yinz")):
    Name this prolific British architect, more famous for designing Hyderabad House and the layout of New Delhi, as well as Castle Drogo, which disappointingly has absolutely nothing to do with Game of Thrones.
  Part 2 (ans: landscape gardening [or landscaping; or horticulture; or gardening]):
    Lutyens often collaborated with Gertrude Jekyll, who was known for using "hardy borders" and "brush-like strokes" in this discipline, which is also the field of Lancelot "Capability" Brown.
  Part 3 (ans: Christopher Wren):
    Lutyens is often described as the best British architect since this designer of St. Paul's Cathedral, who reconstructed large swathes of London after the Great Fire.

[B4] 2018 British Novice (2018) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Richard Owen Cambridge claimed that he wished to die before this artist, so that he could see heaven before it was 'improved'. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Lancelot 'Capability' Brown):
    Name this 18th-century landscape gardener. Their emphasis on making redesigned gardens look 'natural' often called for sweeping vistas and ha-ha walls, such as at Stowe Gardens.
  Part 2 (ans: Blenheim Palace):
    Brown flooded the lower levels of the 'grand bridge' in his redesign of this building's gardens, originally designed by John Vanbrugh. This Oxfordshire estate is the only non-royal 'palace' in the UK.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    At Fawsley House, Brown made a lot of changes to the earlier design of this architect, who is perhaps best known for the design of the current St Paul's Cathedral in London.

[B5] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This architect made substantial "ornamental" deviations from his Warrant Design for a building on Ludgate Hill, including to its dome, which lies above a whispering gallery. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    Name this architect of St. Paul's Cathedral.
  Part 2 (ans: London):
    St. Paul's Cathedral is located in this city, whose reconstruction he helped plan after its Great Fire of 1666.
  Part 3 (ans: Royal Observatory, Greenwich [or Royal Greenwich Observatory]):
    Wren was also commissioned to design this building to house John Flamsteed's scientific work, for which tall windows were installed in its Octagon Room. This building also marks the prime meridian.

[B6] 2013 Michigan Fall Tournament (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One skyscraper in this city is known as The Gherkin due to its phallic shape, while another is simply called Tower 42. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London):
    Name this city that also contains a banqueting house with a ceiling painted by Peter Paul Rubens.
  Part 2 (ans: Christopher Wren):
    This architect of several portions of the Hampton Court Palace was called on to head the rebuilding of London's churches after the Great Fire of 1666. He thus supervised the design of St. Paul's Cathedral.
  Part 3 (ans: John Nash):
    This architect of Brighton Palace is known for his work on the extensive renovations that took place to Buckingham Palace during the 1820s, though he ran over budget before all of his plans could be realized.

[B7] 2013 ACF Fall (2013) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Anish Kapoor and Cecil Balmond recently designed the ArcelorMittal Orbit in this city. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: London, England):
    Name this city that also contains Piccadilly Circus in its West End and Trafalgar Square.
  Part 2 (ans: Covent Gardens Square):
    Another square in London is this one laid out in piazza style by Inigo Jones. St. Paul's Church, also designed by Jones, sits on end of this square, the first modern one in London.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    While St. Paul's Church in London was designed by Inigo Jones, St. Paul's Cathedral on Ludgate Hill was designed by this man, who redesigned it after the Great Fire.

[B8] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This building stopped being used for masques when it was discovered that smoke was damaging The Apotheosis of James I, a ceiling mural painted by Rubens. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Banqueting House at Whitehall [prompt on "Whitehall Palace"]):
    Identify this British royal building at Whitehall erected in 1622 whose facade places four sets of Ionic and Corinthian columns within two sets of pilasters on the outer bays.
  Part 2 (ans: Inigo Jones):
    The Banqueting House at Whitehall is one of the few surviving buildings designed by this architect, who was heavily influenced by Andrea Palladio. His rectangular design for Covent Garden was inspired by the Place Royale in Paris.
  Part 3 (ans: Sir Christopher Wren):
    This other British architect worked with men like Robert Hooke to construct several buildings in the aftermath of the Great Fire of London. He's best known for constructing the new St. Paul's Cathedral.
