=== TEXT MENTION CLUES: Carl Sandburg ===
(Questions where 'Carl Sandburg' appears in the text but is NOT the answer)
Tossup questions: 21 found, 85 clue sentences
Bonus questions: 21 found, 63 bonus parts

--- TEXT MENTION TOSSUPS ---

[TM1] 2025 Spec Script (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: John Milius [or John Frederick Milius]
  - Early in his career, this screenwriter earned an unprecedented 300,000 dollars for his script for a John Huston comedy about Judge Roy Bean.
  - Carl Sandburg's writing style inspired this screenwriter's script for the Robert Redford movie Jeremiah Johnson.
  - This script doctor's work includes "tell me I have led a good life" for the graveyard scenes in Saving Private Ryan, the lines "well, do you, punk?" and "go ahead, make my day" for Clint Eastwood, and the USS Indianapolis monologue in Jaws.
  - MGM gave this screenwriter a gun of his choice as part of his deal to direct (*) Red Dawn.
  - The Coen brothers used this "Zen anarchist" screenwriter's beard, sunglasses, and boisterous personality as a model for Walter Sobchak, John Goodman's character in The Big Lebowski.
  - This screenwriter's best-known script includes the lines "Charlie don't surf!" and "terminate with extreme prejudice." For 10 points, what director of Conan the Barbarian wrote the initial draft of Apocalypse Now?

[TM2] 2024 This Set is Garbo (2024) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: biblical epic [accept Bible films or Christian film; accept adaptations of the Bible or New Testament; prompt on historical epic or biopic; prompt on sword and sandal film with "what is the film's particular subject matter?"]
  - Leonard Maltin called a film in this genre "the one time you should read the book instead." A sax leitmotif recurs as a snake slithers out of a skull in Toshiro Mayuzumi's avant-garde score for a film in this genre.
  - Carl Sandburg wrote dialogue for an Ultra Panavision 70 film in this genre that was made only four years after a similar MGM film directed by Nicholas Ray.
  - Christopher Fry wrote the screenplay for a film in this genre in which John Huston cast himself to provide (*) voice work.
  - John Wayne cameoed as a soldier who speaks an awkward voiceover beginning "truly this man..." in one of several 1960s ensemble films in this genre.
  - For 10 points, give this genre of The Greatest Story Ever Told and King of Kings.

[TM3] 2024 DART (2024) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: "Chicago"
  - This poem's speaker turns to "those who sneer" and exclaims, "I give them back the sneer." This poem's subject laughs "even as an ignorant fighter would" and is "under the terrible burden of destiny." The speaker of this poem admits, "I have seen the (*) gunman kill and go free," and describes "pain

[TM4] 2021 HARI (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Illinois
  - A poet from this state walked from it to New Mexico on one of three tours that earned him the nickname of "troubadour." That poet was popularized by Harriet Monroe, who founded Poetry magazine in this state.
  - A poem set in this state asks "And who will bring white peace / That he may sleep upon his hill again?" and is about a "mourning figure" who "will not rest." Real residents of this state (*) inspired characters like Old Fiddler Jones in Edgar Lee Masters' Spoon River Anthology.
  - In a poem by Vachel Lindsay, Abraham Lincoln "Walks at Midnight" in a city in this state.
  - The largest city in this state was described as the "Hog Butcher for the World." For 10 points, name this state home to Carl Sandburg, the author of "Chicago."

[TM5] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: William Carlos Williams
  - Galway Kinnell's poem to this author recounts a reading where the audience paid him "almost total / inattention" except a giggle "when you spoke of a pig." This poet "loved the lotus cup . . . the wily mud . . . and the long stem of connection" according to a poem by his follower, Denise Levertov.
  - Dream Song 324, "An elegy for [this poet] the lovely man," praises him for having "worked so hard" "for so many years." This poet is asked "what is death?" and "are you prepared to be reborn" in "Mescaline" by Allen Ginsberg, whose correspondence with this poet inspired Ginsberg to adopt free verse.
  - A Carl Sandburg poem describes this author "delivering the brain-child / to wriggle in black ink on white paper" "In Rutherford New Jersey" and is titled "Good Babies Make Good Poems." For 10 points, name this obstetrician who wrote "Asphodel that Greeny Flower," Paterson and "This is Just To Say."

[TM6] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: grass [accept Leaves of Grass]
  - Marjorie Westriding-Yrarier is an ambassador to a planet named for this substance in a novel titled for it by Sherri S.
  - Tepper.
  - In one poem, the speaker guesses this substance is a "uniform hieroglyphic," "the handkerchief of the Lord," or "the flag of my disposition." A poem titled for this substance ends by saying "I am [this substance].
  - Let me work" and opens "Pile high the bodies at (*) Austerlitz and Waterloo"; that poem is by Carl Sandburg.
  - In an 1855 poem, the speaker struggles to answer a child who asks "What is [this substance]?" This is the last word in the title of a collection that contains the poems "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking," "I Sing the Body Electric," and "Song of Myself." For 10 points, a Walt Whitman poetry colle

[TM7] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: railroads [or train tracks; or equivalents; accept The Underground Railroad or "The Celestial Railroad"]
  - In a novel titled for one of these systems, it is revealed that the protagonist's mother was bitten by a snake in a swamp while trying to return to her.
  - In that novel, the news that black men and women employed at a Living History museum are, respectively, being injected with syphilis and sterilized prompts Cora to make use of one of these structures.
  - Mr.
  - Smooth-it away's nostrils begin emitting smoke at the end of a Pilgrim's Progress-inspired story by (*) Nathaniel Hawthorne set on a "celestial" one of these structures.
  - Carl Sandburg called Chicago the "Player with" these structures, which are built by a company that fights with farmers in the San Joaquin Valley in Frank Norris's The Octopus.
  - For 10 points, what sort of structure literally takes slaves to freedom in a Colson Whitehead novel titled for the "Underground" one?

[TM8] 2019 Prison Bowl (2019) | Diff: 5 | Science
     Answer: fog
  - Pogonip is one result of this substance's deposition.
  - Lomas occur where this substance's Garua version is prevalent and is often captured with nets.
  - This entity's radiative type occurs when nighttime ground cools the air above it, and its advective type occurs when wind blows over colder ground.
  - As a metaphor for obscurity, Carl von (*) Clausewitz described the "[this substance] of war," and Carl Sandburg described its gradual approach "on little cat feet." Forming below the dewpoint, for 10 points, name this ground-level cloud that consists of water droplets denser than mist.

[TM9] 2019 Fall Open (2019) | Diff: 9 | Other Academic
     Answer: baseball cards [prompt on trading cards]
  - One of these items described by the Mile High Company as "one of the more impressive and popular" ones unusually depicts a dog named Midget.
  - Carl Sandburg donated a group of these items once owned by Benjamin K.
  - Edwards to the Library of Congress.
  - Jefferson Burdick created a classification system for these items, in which the oldest ones, designated by the letter "N," include Goodwin & Company's "Old Judge" set.
  - Los Angeles Kings owner Bruce McNall helped (*) Wayne Gretzky purchase one of these items, which he later sold to Wal-Mart for $500,000.
  - A major seller of these items revived the name of the tobacco company Allen & Ginter for their recent lines.
  - The "Luckiest Man Alive" speech and the Pine Tar Incident are depicted in a gigantic set of these items released by Upper Deck that chronicles the history of a now-demolished Bronx stadium.
  - For 10 points, identify these collectible items exemplified by the incredibly valuable T206 Honus Wagner.

[TM10] 2018 PACE NSC (2018) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago [accept Chicago Poems]
  - A volume of poetry titled for this place includes a poem whose speaker sees a "crowd of Hungarians" with a "keg of beer and an accordion" while trying to discover "happiness." A poem titled for this place compares it to "the terrible burden of destiny" that laughs "as a young man laughs," and claims
  - A (*) 1916 collection of poetry titled after this city laid out a vision of "American realism" later developed in the collections Cornhuskers and Smoke and Steel; in that book, this city is called a "tool maker," "stacker of wheat," and "hog butcher of the world." For 10 points, name this "City of t

[TM11] 2018 NASAT (2018) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago, Illinois
  - The life of a poet from this city is depicted with paper-cut puppets in No Blue Memories; that play is by two other poets from this city, Nate Marshall and Eve Ewing.
  - A poet from this city wondered whether a dream could "sing an aria down these rooms" in a poem that ends "We think of lukewarm water, hope to get in it." Another poet depicted this city "with lifted head singing so proud to be alive" in a section that begins, "They tell me you are wicked and I belie
  - The first poem from a collection about this city describes it as a "Player with Railroads and the Nation's Freight Handler." For 10 points, name this city described as "Hog Butcher of the World" and "City of the Big Shoulders" by Carl Sandburg.

[TM12] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago
  - A play by Bruce Norris set in this city features two acts set fifty years apart and focuses on the grieving parents Bev and Russ.
  - That play set in this city won the 2011 Pulitzer for Drama and is called Clybourne Park.
  - Though it is part of the Pittsburgh Cycle, August Wilson's play Ma Rainey's Black Bottom is actually set among the blues musicians of this city.
  - A play set in this city which takes its title from a line by (*) Langston Hughes portrays the financial troubles of the Younger family and Walter's plan to buy a liquor store.
  - For 10 point, identify this American city, the setting of Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the Sun, which is called "Hog Butcher for the World" in a Carl Sandburg poem.

[TM13] 2018 Chicago Open (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Charlie Chaplin [accept "Chaplinesque"]
  - In a story, this man tries to hold onto an eyeball that keeps "popping and slithering out of his grasp" after he accidentally knocks it out of an old man's eye socket.
  - His character of the "suspect" is compared to the "schlemiel" in an essay that likens his "worried, careworn innocence" to the effrontery of the "little Yid." A poem subtitled for this man "playing for his friends after dinner," describes him "laughing a laugh the whole world knows" while "again the

[TM14] 2018 ACF Nationals (2018) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: work [accept forms of the word work such as working or doing work; prompt on synonyms such as "labor"]
  - A poem titled for this activity notes that "suddenly you can hardly stand / the love flooding you for your brother," who gets up "before noon to study his German" and sings "Wagner, the opera you hate most, / the worst music ever invented." That Philip Levine poem states that "if you're / old enough
  - That poem states that this activity "without Hope draws nectar in a sieve." In response to "what place is this?" and "where are we now?" the title substance of a Carl Sandburg poem declares, "I am the grass," and asks, "Let me do" this action.
  - A rumination on death ends by recognizing that this this action "has to be done" in a poem that illustrates it with "postmen like doctors" who "go from house to house." For 10 points, the speaker of Philip Larkin's "Aubade" says that he does what activity "all day" before getting "half-drunk at nigh

[TM15] 2017 MASSOLIT (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Bob Dylan (or Robert Allan Zimmerman)
  - This man referenced Carl Sandburg in a poem saying "chicago? the hogbutcher! meatpacker! whatever! who cares? it's also like cleveland! like cincinnati!" Another poem by this man begins "aretha/ crystal jukebox queen of hymn & him" and declares "now's not the time to act silly, so wear your big boot
  - This man wrote of the title entity (+) "Blowing like a circle around my skull/ From the Grand Coulee Dam to the Capital" in a work that repeats "It's a wonder that you still know how to breathe".
  - This poet of the collection (*) Tarantula included Idiot Wind in his Blood on the Tracks.
  - For ten points, identify this poet of who is also known for writing and playing songs such as Subterranean Homesick Blues and Mr.
  - Tambourine Man, the 2016 Nobel Laureate in Literature.

[TM16] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago
  - One depiction of this city features the lines "Bareheaded / Shoveling / Wrecking / Planning / Building, breaking, rebuilding." That depiction of this city features three lines beginning with the three phrases "They tell me you are wicked," "And they tell me you are crooked," and "And they tell me yo

[TM17] 2015 Chicago Open Visual Arts (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: The Family of Man [3]
  - Regarding this project, one critic wrote that it gives "to the immobility of the world the alibi of a 'wisdom' and a 'lyricism' which only make [gestures] look eternal the better to defuse them." A work in this project shows a single-file line of children following a high-stepping drum major through
  - In Mythologies, Roland Barthes criticized this exhibition, which had a prologue written by Carl Sandburg and used Eugene Harris' Peruvian Flute Player as a cover image for its catalogue.
  - Originally shown at MoMA, this exhibition toured (*) 37 countries and had displays arranged into themes like birth, children, careers, and war.
  - Including the aforementioned works of Eisenstaedt and Cartier-Bresson, this exhibition featured work by 273 photographers from 68 countries, including Dorothea Lange's Migrant Mother.
  - For 10 points, name this photography exhibition organized by Edward Steichen to show humanity's common bonds.

[TM18] 2012 WELD (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago
  - In one novel set in this city, an Eastern European writer named Brik investigates the shooting of the title Jewish immigrant by this city's police chief.
  - That novel is Aleksandar Hemon's The Lazarus Project.
  - One essay declares that loving this city is "like loving a woman with a broken nose," because "you may well find lovelier lovelies, but never a lovely so real." A novel named after the first line of DeLillo's Americana is about an advertising agency in this city; that novel is Then We Came to the En
  - This subject of a Nelson Algren essay about a "city on the make" is the setting of "Barbie-Q," one of the vignettes which make up a novel in which Esperanza Cordero lives in the title building in this city, The House on Mango Street.
  - For 10 points, name this setting of A Street in Bronzeville, A Raisin in the Sun, and The Jungle, a city described as the "Hog Butcher for the World" in a poem by Carl Sandburg.

[TM19] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago
  - One author compared his relationship with this city to loving a woman with a broken nose in an essay about it subtitled "City on the Make." One character who lives here gets Catherine Banahan pregnant and dies of pneumonia, having blown his chance at his true love, Lucy Scanlan, and still rememberin
  - A different character becomes involved with the John (*) Reed Club and the Left Front while in this city, but still struggles to embrace the ideals of the communist party.
  - A character born in this city is led to Mexico as a result of his affair with Thea Fenchel, but ends up marrying Stella.
  - Richard Wright moved here from Memphis, and it is the hometown of James T.
  - Farrell's Studs Lonigan and Saul Bellow's Augie March.
  - For 10 points, name this city, deemed "Hog Butcher for the World" in a poem named after it by Carl Sandburg.

[TM20] 2012 PACE NSC (2012) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago, Illinois
  - Living in this city is compared to "loving a woman with a broken nose" in an essay calling it a "city on the make".
  - That essay was written by a man who wrote about Frankie Machine in a novel set here called The Man with the Golden Arm.
  - One novel set in this home of Nelson Algren ends with three cries that this city "will be ours!" and depicts it as being home to a Durham fertilizer plant and Brown's (*) slaughterhouse, where Jurgis Rudkus works.
  - Another work describes this city as a "tall bold slugger" that is "flinging magnetic curses" and calls it the "Player with Railroads" and "Hog Butcher for the World".
  - For 10 points, name this "City of the Big Shoulders", the setting of The Jungle and the subject of a Carl Sandburg poem.

[TM21] 2012 Collegiate Novice (2012) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Chicago
  - This entity is proud that "under his wrist is the pulse / and under his ribs the heart of the people." It flings "magnetic curses amid the toil of piling job on job." It is "bareheaded, shoveling, wrecking, planning" while "under the smoke" and with "dust all over his mouth." This entity is describe

--- TEXT MENTION BONUSES ---

[BM1] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's biographer Willard Spiegelman wondered "who is this person?" after reading a poem by her, which was among its 63-year-old author's first published works. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Amy Clampitt):
    Name this late-blooming American poet known for her exuberant poems from collections like What the Light Was Like. The title bird comes "glancing like an arrow through landscapes of untended memory" in her poem "The Kingfisher."
  Part 2 (ans: zoos [accept the Bronx Zoo or "The Woman at the Washington Zoo"]):
    People at one of these places heard "through headphones of a separating panic" in "The Kingfisher." The speaker demands "change me!" at the end of a Randall Jarrell poem titled for a "woman" at one of these places.
  Part 3 (ans: fog (Both poems are called "Fog.")):
    Part of Clampitt's poem titled for this substance reads " Opacity opens up rooms, a showcase for the hueless moonflower corolla." A Carl Sandburg poem says this stuff "comes on little cat feet."

[BM2] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Susan Sontag called this exhibition "the last sigh of the Whitmanesque erotic embrace of the nation" in her book-length essay On Photography. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Family of Man):
    Name this large exhibition of world photography curated by Edward Steichen that opened at the MoMA in 1955. Its name comes from a line in a poem by Carl Sandburg.
  Part 2 (ans: Diane Arbus):
    In On Photography, Sontag compares The Family of Man to a retrospective of this photographer's works depicting "freaks." This artist's photograph of identical twin sisters in New Jersey inspired a scene in the film The Shining.
  Part 3 (ans: New York City [or NYC]):
    Sontag's list of "freaks" in Arbus's works includes a "Jewish giant" living with his parents in this city, which is also the setting of Arbus's photograph of a child with a toy hand grenade in Central Park.

[BM3] 2022 C++ (2022) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: A song titled for this time period was first published in The American Songbag by Carl Sandburg, who interpreted its lyrics as referring to suicide. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: midnight [accept "Midnight Special"; accept "Round Midnight"]):
    Name this time period that titles a song whose singer asks a certain vehicle to "shine the light on me." Another song titled for this time that opens the album Genius of Modern Music is the most recorded standard by a jazz musician.
  Part 2 (ans: Lead Belly [or Huddie William Ledbetter]):
    "Midnight Special" was popularized by this musician, whose career was championed by musicologists John and Alan Lomax. This musician's nickname may refer to a buckshot wound or his ability to drink moonshine.
  Part 3 (ans: guitar):
    Lead Belly often styled himself as the "King" of the twelve stringed form of this instrument, which was also played by Django Reinhardt.

[BM4] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In an essay collection structured as one of these works, Dubravka Ugresic ("ooh-gruh-zich") reflects on being a "Couch Potato" while watching American news coverage of the Yugoslav Wars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dictionary [accept word forms; accept American Fictionary or Dictionary of the Khazars]):
    Name this type of work. A Milorad Pavic novel titled for this type of work includes Red, Green, and Yellow books with Christian, Jewish, and Muslim interpretations of a dream.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago (The poem is "Chicago" by Carl Sandburg)):
    Bosnian Jozef Pronek learns about the Yugoslav Wars while living in this city in Aleksandar Hemon's Nowhere Man. This "City of the Big Shoulders" is the "Hog Butcher for the World" in a Carl Sandburg poem.
  Part 3 (ans: museums [accept Museum of Unconditional Surrender or Museum of Innocence] (Djelal Kadir coined "worlding" to refer to the globalization and cosmopolitanization of world literature, and Stijn Vervaet applied "worlding" to Yugoslav literature.)):
    The "worlding" of Yugoslav literature was said to be exemplified by Ugresic's novel about this kind of place "of Unconditional Surrender." Kemal makes Fusun's house this kind of place "of Innocence" in an Orhan Pamuk novel.

[BM5] 2021 Spring Novice (2021) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: A member of this family has "murder in her eyes" after her husband gives their son a dollar when she previously refused to give him fifty cents for school. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Younger family):
    Name this family. The death of Mama's husband allows this family to buy a house and invest in a liquor store, which ends up being a scam created by the "good-for-nothing loud mouth" Willy Harris.
  Part 2 (ans: A Raisin in the Sun):
    The Younger family leaves their crowded apartment building and moves to Clybourne Park, an all-white neighborhood, in this play by Lorraine Hansberry.
  Part 3 (ans: Chicago, Illinois):
    Hansberry based Clybourne Park on Washington Park in this city. Carl Sandburg's poem named for this city calls it the "Hog Butcher, Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat" and "City of the Big Shoulders."

[BM6] 2021 ACF Winter (2021) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of a Carl Sandburg poem calls this historical figure "a slanting look of the eyes, / A slanting look under a hat on a horse" and beseeches this figure to "Give us again the ache of our boy hearts." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Buffalo Bill [or William Frederick "Buffalo Bill" Cody; accept "Buffalo Bill's defunct"]):
    Name this historical figure who used to "break one two three four five pigeons just like that" and "ride a watersmooth-silver / stallion" in a poem that asks "how do you like your blue-eyed boy / Mister Death."
  Part 2 (ans: e e cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]):
    "Buffalo Bill's defunct" is a poem by this author, who experimented with punctuation and capitalization in poems such as "anyone lived in a pretty how town."
  Part 3 (ans: "furnished souls" [prompt on souls]):
    Another cummings poem, which describes how "the moon rattles like a fragment of angry candy," is titled for "the Cambridge ladies who live in [this specific location]."

[BM7] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A botched self-abortion kills April in a novel by this author in which the dullness of suburban life leads both Frank and April to cheat on each other before and after an aborted move to Paris. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Richard Yates):
    Name this author. The first line of this author's The Easter Parade declares that, because of their parents divorce, neither of the Grimes sisters would have happy lives.
  Part 2 (ans: swimming [accept "The Swimmer"]):
    Much of John Cheever's writings detail the drudgery of the suburbs, including a story in which Neddy Merrill travels through his neighborhood in this manner. Gene is the only person to witness Finny's record-breaking performance of this activity in John Knowles' A Separate Peace.
  Part 3 (ans: Illinois):
    Conrad's attempted suicide interrupts the suburban life of the Jarretts in Judith Guest's Ordinary People, which is set in this state. Carl Sandburg described this state's biggest city as the "hog butcher of the world."

[BM8] 2019 Terrapin (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: After this law was passed, the federal government initiated the case United States v. Forty Barrels & Twenty Kegs of Coca-Cola, attempting to force Coca-Cola to remove caffeine from its formula. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 [prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this consumer protection law that was passed in 1906 after Upton Sinclair exposed the unsanitary conditions of American slaughterhouses in his novel The Jungle.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago):
    The Jungle portrayed the meatpacking industry of this city's stockyard, which processed 18 million head of livestock during its peak year in 1924. Carl Sandburg coined this city's nickname of "hog butcher for the world."
  Part 3 (ans: Harvey Washington Wiley):
    This American chemist enforced the law as head of the USDA's Bureau of Chemistry. He carried out voluntary "poison squad" studies testing the effects of common preservatives like formaldehyde on the human body.

[BM9] 2019 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2019) | Diff: 6 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Carl Sandburg wrote the text prologue to the best-selling book version of this art exhibition. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Family of Man):
    Name this groundbreaking 1955 photography exhibition curated by Edward Steichen at the Museum of Modern Art. Ansel Adams, Dorothea Lange, and Robert Capa were among the 273 photographers featured in this human subject-focused exhibition.
  Part 2 (ans: LifeMagazine):
    Many of the photographers featured in The Family of Man also published their work in this Henry Luce owned photojournalism magazine, the sister magazine to TIME. Margaret Bourke-White, Alfred Eisenstaedt, and W. Eugene Smith all contributed to this magazine.
  Part 3 (ans: Henri Cartier-Bresson):
    This French photographer also contributed to Life during the postwar era. His pioneering work in street photography made use of his theory of "the decisive moment."

[BM10] 2019 ACF Fall (2019) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This place names a poetic form developed by Terrance Hayes where each line ends with a word from another poem in successive order. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Golden Shovel):
    Name this location. In a Gwendolyn Brooks poem, it is occupied by seven pool players who "sing sin" and "thin gin."
  Part 2 (ans: mothers (The poem is "Mother to Son" by Langston Hughes.)):
    A different Gwendolyn Brooks poem titled for one of these people ends, "I knew you, though faintly, and I loved, I loved you / All." In another poem, one of these people says to another character, "Life for me ain't been no crystal stair."
  Part 3 (ans: Chicago):
    Brooks set her collection Annie Allen in this Midwestern city, which is called "Hog Butcher for the World" in a poem by Carl Sandburg.

[BM11] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: A Carl Sandburg poem about this thing exclaims "Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo / shovel them under and let me work." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: grass):
    Name this thing described in another poem as a "uniform hieroglyphic" and "Darker than the colorless beards of old men." In that poem, this thing is "alike in broad zones and narrow zones" and "among black folks as among white."
  Part 2 (ans: "Song of Myself"):
    Those descriptions of grass occur in this 52 section poem which comprises a large portion of the collection Leaves of Grass. Another section of this poem describes a voyeuristic "29th bather" who watches a bunch of guys swimming.
  Part 3 (ans: Walt Whitman):
    "Song of Myself" is by this bearded American poet who also wrote "I Sing the Body Electric."

[BM12] 2018 British Novice (2018) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This playwright thought one of his works was so dark that he requested that it not be published until 25 years after his death; however, his wife published it just two years after. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eugene O'Neill):
    Name this author of that play about the Tyrone family, Long Day's Journey into Night. They also wrote The Iceman Cometh.
  Part 2 (ans: actor [or similar equivalents]):
    In Long Day's Journey Into Night, the retired patriarch James Tyrone regrets taking up a 'vehicle' role while in this profession, preferring instead the great roles in the plays of Shakespeare.
  Part 3 (ans: fog [or "Fog"]):
    The set of Long Day's Journey Into Night features this specific phenomenon outside the house. A Carl Sandburg poem describes how this phenomenon 'comes / on little cat feet'.

[BM13] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The author of this poem called its pronouns "tiny, wispy, weakly argumentative Kilroy-is-here announcements." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "We Real Cool"):
    Name this poem by Gwendolyn Brooks, which is set at the Golden Shovel and depicts pool-players who "Jazz June" and "Die Soon."
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago):
    Brooks stated "We say ourselves fortunate to be driving by today" in a poem from Annie Allen describing an upper-class neighborhood in this city. This city is called "hog-butcher to the world" in a Carl Sandburg poem.
  Part 3 (ans: mothers):
    Brooks' "sonnet-ballad" repeatedly asks one of these figures "where is happiness?" Another Brooks poem titled for one of these people ends "Believe me, I knew you, though faintly, and I loved, I loved you all."

[BM14] 2016 CLEAR (2016) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: Photos included in this Edward Steichen-curated exhibition include a dead Union soldier laying against breastworks shot by Matthew Brady and Dorothea Lange's Migrant Mother. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Family of Man):
    Name this 1955 photographic exhibition, first hosted at the MoMA and later touring more than 30 countries, including Luxembourg, where it is currently housed. Carl Sandburg produced the prologue to the catalogue.
  Part 2 (ans: Nuclear Explosion [or Nuclear Test; accept logical equivalents]):
    The only color image originally included in the exhibition, but later pulled showed one of these events at Enewetak photographed on October 31, 1952.
  Part 3 (ans: Lynching):
    The other photograph removed from the original exhibition and not included in the catalogue is the depiction of one of these events. 1955 also saw the publishing of photos in Jet of Emmett Till, who suffered this fate after making a pass at a white woman in Mississippi.

[BM15] 2015 STIMPY (2015) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel is given the poem "Mechanism vs. Functionalism/Ism vs. Hism" by a man who is scamming him, Dr. Tamkin. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Seize the Day [do not accept "Carpe Diem," obviously]):
    Name this Saul Bellow novel about the failed actor Tommy Wilhelm. It takes its name from a popular aphorism coined by Horace.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago, Illinois):
    The first sentence of Saul Bellow's The Adventures of Augie March announces that the narrator was born in this city. This city, the setting of The Jungle, is called "Hog Butcher for the World" in a Carl Sandburg poem about it.
  Part 3 (ans: professor [prompt on "teacher," "academic," or other related words]):
    The protagonist of Bellow's Ravelstein has this job. This profession is shared by William Stoner in a recently rediscovered John Williams novel, and by a man who visits the most photographed barn in America and shoots Willie Mink.

[BM16] 2015 George Oppen (2015) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This artist depicted a swimmer whose body is distorted by the water in one of his photographs, which prompted him to create an entire series of Distortions. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Andre Kertesz [or Kertesz Andor]):
    Name this stockbroker-turned-photographer, who took a famous close-up of a fork resting against a plate and depicted a lounging, carefree woman in his photo Satiric Dancer.
  Part 2 (ans: Life):
    This magazine hired Kertesz to take a series of photographs of tugboats in New York City, and refused to publish his images of the rest of the harbor. This Henry Luce-created magazine is the photojournalistic counterpart to Time.
  Part 3 (ans: The Family of Man):
    Kertesz was sadly excluded from this exhibition of 503 images curated by Edward Steichen at the MoMA, which was seen by over nine million people. Steichen turned it into a book with an introduction by his brother-in-law Carl Sandburg.

[BM17] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer the following about composers who brought American folksong into classical music, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Ruth Crawford Seeger):
    Henry Cowell claimed that the third movement of this composer's modernist string quartet was the greatest ever written for such an ensemble. She collaborated with Carl Sandburg, setting several of his poems to music, and compiled a number of books intended to teach folk songs at the elementary level
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Ives):
    This composer profusely quoted folk, hymn, and patriotic tunes like "Columbia, Gem of the Ocean" in pieces like his "Holidays" Symphony. He also called for the player to hit the keys with a piece of wood in his Concord Sonata.
  Part 3 (ans: Symphony No. 4):
    Ives quoted the hymn "Bethany" both in his unfinished "Universe Symphony" and in this piece which usually requires two conductors to perform due to its incredibly complex polyrhythms.

[BM18] 2014 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2014) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: Identify the following regarding Pulitzer-winning plays of the 1930s, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Our Town):
    This 1938 winner depicts the relationship between George Gibbs and Emily Webb. Written by Thornton Wilder, it takes place in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire.
  Part 2 (ans: Abraham Lincoln [accept Lincoln in Illinois]):
    In 1939, Robert Sherwood won for a play about this American historical figure, who was also the subject of a six-volume biography by Carl Sandburg.
  Part 3 (ans: Susan Keating Glaspell):
    The 1932 prize went to this author for Alison's Baby. This cofounder of the Provincetown Players is more famous now for her 1916 play Trifles, which she later adapted into the story "A Jury of Her Peers".

[BM19] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The speaker of this poem declares: "My foothold is tenon'd and mortis'd in granite / I laugh at what you call dissolution / And I know the amplitude of time". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Song of Myself"):
    Name this long poem, whose speaker declares: "I too am not a bit tamed, I too am untranslatable / I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world".
  Part 2 (ans: grass):
    In Whitman's "Song of Myself", a child asks "What is this substance"? This substance titles a Carl Sandburg poem that begins: "Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo".
  Part 3 (ans: Robert (L.) Hass):
    This Berkeley professor and former U.S. Poet Laureate co-wrote a lexicon of Whitman's diction in "Song of Myself" with Paul Ebenkamp. He is the leading English translator of Czeslaw Milosz's poetry, and his own poetry is known for its ecological themes.

[BM20] 2013 Western Invitational Tournament (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character's final appearance is in the novel Judgement Day. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Studs Lonigan):
    Name this youth, subject to the racism and anti-Semitism of the violent Old Man O'Brien. After dropping out of school, he runs away from home before coming back to his family and getting drunk and fat.
  Part 2 (ans: James Thomas Farrell):
    Studs Lonigan was created by this Irish-American author, who included him in such novels as Young Lonigan and The Young Manhood of Studs Lonigan.
  Part 3 (ans: Chicago):
    Both Lonigan and Farrell were from this American city, the setting for many of Saul Bellow's works. A Carl Sandburg poem about this city declares it a "Stacker of Wheat" and "Hog Butcher of the world."

[BM21] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: For 10 points each, answer the following about Saul Bellow.
  Part 1 (ans: Chicago):
    Many of Bellow's novels, such as The Adventures of Augie March, paint a portrait of this American city, also immortalized in a Carl Sandburg poem.
  Part 2 (ans: Mr. Sammler's Planet):
    In this Bellow novel, a Holocaust survivor's daughter steals the manuscript of the Indian rocket scientist Dr. Govinda Lal, who wishes to escape the title location and go to the moon.
  Part 3 (ans: Humboldt's Gift):
    Bellow fictionalized himself as Charlie Citrine in this novel, in which he deals with contradictory advice from Rinaldo Cantabile and the title character, a stand-in for Bellow's real life friend Delmore Schwartz.
