=== STOCK CLUES: Carl Sandburg ===
Tossup questions: 3 found, 9 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 13 found, 39 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 DECAMERON (2020) | Diff: 7 | Pop Culture
     Answer: Carl Sandburg [accept answers referring to his ghost]
  - The singer of one song recounts being "hypnotized" and "asked to improvise" by this figure after having cried himself to sleep.
  - In that song, whose second section is partially titled for this man, the singer repeatedly asks "are you writing from the heart." This man's poem "Murmurings in a Field Hospital" provided part of the subtitle of a song whose singer intones "Oh (*) Great Fire of great disaster;" that song is "The Tallest Man, the Broadest Shoulders," whose second part is named for this poet's line "Come to me only with playthings now." This man "Visits Me in a Dream" in the second part of "Come On! [PWR]
  - Feel the Illinoise!" Sufjan Stevens drew inspiration from, for 10 points, what man who wrote the Chicago Poems? [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 ACF Winter (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Carl Sandburg
  - This author states "I won't take my religion from a man who never works except with his mouth" and asks the addressee "I want to know... what the hell... you know about Jesus" in a poem addressed to Billy Sunday.
  - In another poem, this author remarks on seeing "the gunman kill and go free" and "painted women under the gas lamps," responding to how "they tell" him that the title place is wicked, crooked, and brutal.
  - A short poem by this author describes how the title phenomenon "sits looking... on silent haunches" and "over harbor and city." His best-known poem describes the "big shoulders" of the "stormy, husky, brawling" title place, which he dubs the "nation's freight handler" and "hog butcher of the world." For 10 points, name this poet of "Fog" and "Chicago." [GIVE]

[T3] 2012 Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament (MUT) (2012) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Answer: Carl Sandburg
  - This author wrote a series of short stories set in the fictionalized Midwest for his daughters.
  - In that collection, this author included character named after his daughters' nicknames, "Spink," "Skabootch," and "Swipes," as well as the Potato Face Blind Man.
  - One poem by this author urges "Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo / Shovel them under and let me work." Another of his poems challenges the reader to "Come and show me another city with lifted head singing / so proud to be alive and coarse and strong and cunning." This author of "Grass" called the title place "hog butcher for the world" and the "city of the big shoulders" in his poem "Chicago." For 10 points, name this American poet. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 ACF Regionals (2025) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: This historian won the 1940 Pulitzer Prize for History for the second part of a biography divided into The Prairie Years and The War Years. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carl Sandburg [or Carl August Sandburg]):
    Name this historian and poet who wrote the six-volume biography Abraham Lincoln. Those books by this historian inspired Robert Sherwood's play Abe Lincoln in Illinois.
  Part 2 (ans: William Seward [or William Henry Seward]):
    Sandburg devoted much of The War Years to the congressional plot against this Secretary of State under Lincoln, whose work to purchase Alaska was called his "Folly."
  Part 3 (ans: Clement Vallandigham ("vuh-LAN-dig-um") [or Clement Laird Vallandigham]):
    In an Atlantic review, Stephen Vincent Benet cited this politician as one of many "Congressmen, cranks, [and] soldiers" whom Sandburg depicted. The Birchard Letter addressed this politician's arrest for violating General Order 38.

[B2] 2024 ACF Winter (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Benjamin Chapin, an impersonator of this man, wrote a play titled for him that was then adapted into a ten-film cycle. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Abraham Lincoln):
    Name this man whose final day in Ford's Theater watching Our American Cousin is depicted in Chapin's play.
  Part 2 (ans: Robert E. Sherwood [or Robert Emmet Sherwood]):
    This playwright wrote about Lincoln's life before going to Washington, D.C. in his play Abe Lincoln in Illinois. This member of the Algonquin Round Table also wrote The Petrified Forest.
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Sandburg [or Carl August Sandburg]):
    Sherwood's play was largely based on this author's biography of Lincoln. This author also wrote, "Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo" in his poem "Grass."

[B3] 2023 PACE NSC (2023) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: The protagonist of this novel answers his own question of "What do women want?" with the answer, "They eat green salad and drink human blood." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Herzog):
    Name this novel whose protagonist composes letters to people such as Friedrich Nietzsche and Dwight Eisenhower after his divorce from his second wife, Mady, who left him for his friend Valentine Gersbach.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago):
    Saul Bellow, who partly set Herzog in this city, opened his novel The Adventures of Augie March with the line, "I am an American, [this city] born." Another author declared of this city, "They tell me you are wicked and I believe them."
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Sandburg [or Carl August Sandburg]):
    This author called Chicago "Hog Butcher for the World" in his poem titled after the city.

[B4] 2023 ILLIAC (2023) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: The 1920 poem "Accomplished Facts" repeats this sentence several times before using it to enigmatically end the poem. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: So it goes.):
    Give this three word sentence which, in Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five, follows many paragraphs describing deaths like those of Ronald Weary and Edgar Derby.
  Part 2 (ans: Carl Sandburg [or Carl August Sandburg]):
    "Accomplished Facts" is by this poet who called Chicago "Hog Butcher for the World."
  Part 3 (ans: Emily Dickinson [or Emily Elizabeth Dickinson; accept "Taking Off Emily Dickinson's Clothes"]):
    "Accomplished Facts" opens by stating that this author sent one friend an "arbutus bud" every year. Billy Collins wrote a poem titled, "Taking Off [this author's] Clothes."

[B5] 2022 ARCADIA (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In an essay collection structured as one of these works, Dubravka Ugresic ("ooh-gruh-zich") reflects on being a "Couch Potato" while watching American news coverage of the Yugoslav Wars. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: dictionary [accept word forms; accept American Fictionary or Dictionary of the Khazars]):
    Name this type of work. A Milorad Pavic novel titled for this type of work includes Red, Green, and Yellow books with Christian, Jewish, and Muslim interpretations of a dream.
  Part 2 (ans: Chicago (The poem is "Chicago" by Carl Sandburg)):
    Bosnian Jozef Pronek learns about the Yugoslav Wars while living in this city in Aleksandar Hemon's Nowhere Man. This "City of the Big Shoulders" is the "Hog Butcher for the World" in a Carl Sandburg poem.
  Part 3 (ans: museums [accept Museum of Unconditional Surrender or Museum of Innocence] (Djelal Kadir coined "worlding" to refer to the globalization and cosmopolitanization of world literature, and Stijn Vervaet applied "worlding" to Yugoslav literature.)):
    The "worlding" of Yugoslav literature was said to be exemplified by Ugresic's novel about this kind of place "of Unconditional Surrender." Kemal makes Fusun's house this kind of place "of Innocence" in an Orhan Pamuk novel.

[B6] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The first title character considers whether to tell the second that "Life is hard; be steel; be a rock" or "Life is a soft loam; be gentle; go easy" in this author's poem "A Father to His Son." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carl Sandburg):
    Name this author who won a Pulitzer Prize for his biography Abraham Lincoln: The War Years. He referred to the city you're sitting in as "Hog Butcher for the World."
  Part 2 (ans: prologue to The Family of Man exhibition [accept almost any other word instead of "prologue," such "exhibition commentary," "program notes," etc.]):
    This work by Sandburg begins "The first cry of a newborn baby in Chicago or Zamboango, in Amsterdam or Rangoon, has the same pitch and key." It concludes with a poem ending "There is only one child in the world / and the child's name is All Children."
  Part 3 (ans: Let Us Now Praise Famous Men):
    Sandburg wasn't the only American author to curate photographs with his writing. Eleven years earlier, James Agee wrote text to accompany a collaborator's photographs of sharecroppers hurt by the Great Depression, in this book.

[B7] 2015 Delta Burke (2015) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: Fictional characters that live in this city include Studs Lonigan and heroin addict Frankie Machine. FTPE:
  Part 1 (ans: Chicago):
    Name this city that is the setting of novels like The Man with the Golden Arm and The Jungle.
  Part 2 (ans: Carl Sandburg):
    This poet of "Fog" wrote that Chicago was "Hog-Butcher for the World, Tool maker, Stacker of Wheat." This man's poem "Grass" begins, "Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo."
  Part 3 (ans: The Adventures of Augie March):
    This Saul Bellow novel begins "I am an American, Chicago-born." In this novel, the title character works in Einhorn's dog parlor and travels with Stella to Mexico.

[B8] 2015 ACF Fall (2015) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about literary depictions of Chicago, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Carl Sandburg [or Carl August Sandburg]):
    It is described as the "City of Big Shoulders" and "Hog Butcher of the World" in this poet's most famous poem, "Chicago."
  Part 2 (ans: Augie March [or The Adventures of Augie March; prompt on just "March"]):
    This character states "I am an American, Chicago born" at the beginning of a Saul Bellow novel about his Adventures.
  Part 3 (ans: The Moviegoer):
    Binx Bolling, the title character of this Walker Percy novel, takes his suicidal cousin Kate on a trip from New Orleans to Chicago to visit a Korean War buddy.

[B9] 2014 CLEAR (2014) | Diff: 10 | Mythology
     Leadin: The singer of this song requests of the audience to "beat the drums slowly and play the fife lowly" and to "get six jolly cowboys to carry my coffin" despite being "a young cowboy" who knows he did wrong. F10PE:
  Part 1 (ans: "Streets of Laredo" [or "The Cowboy's Lament"]):
    Name this song, in which a young gambler is carried "wrapped up in white linen as cold as the clay" through the title Texas location.
  Part 2 (ans: Syphilis):
    "Streets of Laredo" is in part derived from the much older "The Unfortunate Rake", which tells of a man dying of this disease, which was infamously studied using unwilling human subjects at Tuskegee from 1932 to 1972.
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Sandburg):
    "Streets of Laredo" was one of the folksongs collected by this poet for his American Songbag. This poet wrote the introduction to the photography book The Family of Man and the collections Corn Huskers and The People, Yes.

[B10] 2013 PACE NSC (2013) | Diff: 5 | Literature
     Leadin: This play was originally published in two parts under the names Millennium Approaches and Perestroika , the first of which sees Roy Cohn offer Joe Pitt a position in the Justice Department. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes):
    Identify this play in which Louis Ironson is horrified to learn that his lover Prior Walter has contracted AIDS.
  Part 2 (ans: The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages):
    Tony Kushner's Angels in America was the three thousand seventy-first, and last, work listed in the appendices to this Harold Bloom tome, which also outlines Bloom's opposition to the so-called "School of Resentment".
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Sandburg):
    Kushner also wrote the screenplay for the film Lincoln. Lincoln's "Prairie Years" and "War Years" were the subject of a two-volume biography by this earlier author, who wrote such popular poems as "Fog", "Grass", and "Chicago".

[B11] 2013 Delta Burke (2013) | Diff: 6 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet wrote two full biographies of Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Carl Sandburg):
    What poet described Chicago as a "husky, brawling, city of the big shoulders"?
  Part 2 (ans: fog):
    Sandburg described this phenomenon coming in "on little cat feet" in a very short poem.
  Part 3 (ans: World War I):
    Sandburg's poem "Planked Whitefish" describes atrocities in this war, in which the American poet Joyce Kilmer was killed.

[B12] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: In his Memoirs, Sherwood Anderson claimed that he wrote this story in one sitting during a snowy night in Chicago, though it takes place farther east. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Hands"):
    Name this first story proper from Anderson's Winesburg, Ohio, which follows the "Book of the Grotesque." This story centers on former teacher Wing Biddlebaum, who got in trouble for his habit of caressing students.
  Part 2 (ans: Carl Sandburg):
    Chicago was an even greater influence on this American poet who called that city a "Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat," and wrote a celebrated two-volume biography of Abraham Lincoln, as well as the poem "Grass".
  Part 3 (ans: the big shoulders [no alternate answer is acceptable]):
    In "Chicago," Sandburg calls that city the "Stormy, husky, brawling, City of" these physical features.

[B13] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In this novel, Walter is caught cavorting with a prostitute and is then pressured to work in his father's glue factory. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Alice Adams):
    Name this novel, in which the protagonist wants to wed Arthur Russell, so her family lies to impress him. By the end, Arthur discovers some of their lies, including the secret of Virgil's factory, and his romance with title character ends forever.
  Part 2 (ans: Booth Tarkington):
    This author of Alice Adams wrote of John Harkless's quest to free Plattville from the corruption of the "White Caps" in The Gentleman from Indiana as well as a novel about the title family of George Minafer.
  Part 3 (ans: Carl Sandburg):
    That novel by Tarkington, The Magnificent Ambersons, won the Pulitzer Prize in the same year as this poet who described the "Hog Butcher for the World" in "Chicago."
