=== STOCK CLUES: Juvenal ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 24 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 12 found, 36 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Juvenal [or Decimus Iunius Iuvenalis]
  - In Ben Jonson's Epicoene, Truewit's anti-feminist anti-marriage diatribe is adapted from this author.
  - Dryden inserted the line "When the King's Trump, the Mob are for the King" into his version of one of this author's works, and in his "Paraphrase" of another work by this author, Dryden turned a "penniless exile" into a poet with life circumstances similar to Dryden himself.
  - A poem patterned after this author begins: "Tho' Grief and Fondness in my Breast Rebel" and describes Thales leaving the title city, London.
  - Another poem imitating this author declares "Let observation with extensive view / Survey mankind, from China to Peru." Samuel Johnson's "The Vanity of Human Wishes" was adapted from a work by this author that mocks Hannibal and advises one to wish for "sound mind in a sound body." For 10 points, name this early 2nd-century poet who mocked the public desire for "bread and circuses" in his Satires. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 OCTAVIAN (2018) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Juvenal
  - This poet describes a man who "sips old wine, bottled when Consuls wore their hair long", who orders "distilled water cooler than frost in Thrace".
  - That man,is served a lamprey from Messina, while the addressee is offered "the stringy snake's relative" or "a denizen of that drain beneath the heart of (*) Subura". [PWR]
  - This poet mocks that if you were given four thousand in gold, "you'd turn from a nobody into one of Virro's dear friends".
  - This poet concludes that poem by declaring that "you won't be afraid to endure the whip: that's the dinner and friend you're worthy of".
  - For 10 points, name this acerbic Roman, who describes the worst possible dinner party in his fifth satire. [GIVE]

[T3] 2018 Cambridge Open (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Juvenal [or Decius Iunius Iuvenalis]
  - In one poem, this author describes a cringing husband closing his eyes after his drunk wife vomits "like a snake" on a marble floor. [PWR]
  - In another of his poems, a man proposes making a massive serving dish after a Council is called to deal with the issue of cooking a huge turbot. [PWR]
  - This author mocked the vanity of human wishes, instead preferring "a sound (*) mind in a sound body, and a brave heart". [PWR]
  - His best-known work consists of 16 poems, in which he coined phrases like "who watches the watchers?" and "bread and circuses".
  - For 10 points, identify this Roman author of the Satires. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 NASAT (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Juvenal [or Decimus Junius Juvenalis]
  - One of this author's works describes a discussion of the problem of how to cook a turbot too large for any pan.
  - Another of this author's works claims that men are crueler than animals and describes a riot in Egypt in which a man was torn to pieces and eaten as evidence.
  - Samuel Johnson adapted one of this man's works as "The Vanity of Human Wishes." Speaking through his friend Umbricius, this man wrote that Rome is a place where "no decent Roman" belongs.
  - For 10 points, the phrases "bread and circuses" and "who will guard the guards themselves" were coined by what Roman author of the Satires? [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 Chicago Open (2012) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Juvenal's Satires
  - At one point in this work, the author refers to the old Testament as "the sacred volume of Moses" before claiming that a father's separation of the Sabbath from the rest of life is the "cause and culprit" for his child having vices. [PWR]
  - That portion is titled "On education in avarice." Its opening bemoans those who bring safety deposit boxes, rather than wallets, to the tables, and a barber who becomes richer than the wealthy.
  - The last portion is lost, but the remaining part discusses advantages that soldiers have over citizens. [PWR]
  - Its author describes the stories of Hercules and the Minotaur as frivolous, instead describing a society where (*) husbands steal money from their wives' friends. [PWR]
  - The 6th part contains the phrase "Sed quis custodiet ipsos custodies", often translated as "who watches the watchmen?" The tenth section was adapted by Samuel Johnson into his poem "The Vanity of Human Wishes".
  - FTP, name these 16 poems criticizing the mores of Roman Society, written by Juvenal.

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: A poet with this name wrote that "it's boring / to fit one's face to reputation. / May I be said to be / a worthy lover for a worthy love." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Sulpicia [accept Sulpicia's Complaint or Sulpiciae Conquestio; prompt on Albius Tibullus by asking "most scholars attribute those poems to a person with what name?"]):
    Give this name of a poet who wrote a 70-line "complaint" about the expulsion of philosophers. Another poet with this name wrote a poem that laments "Birthday's here and I hate it" due to her lover's absence.
  Part 2 (ans: elegy [or elegies; accept elegiac couplets or elegiac distichs]):
    The Augustan Sulpicia likely wrote six poems in this genre published alongside Tibullus's corpus. Poems in this genre, like Catullus's "Hail and Farewell," are often mournful.
  Part 3 (ans: Juvenal [or Decimus Junius Juvenalis]):
    The only fragments fully attributed to the Domitian Sulpicia are two lines quoted by a scholiast on this author. Samuel Johnson's "The Vanity of Human Wishes" was adapted from this author, who wrote about a "sound mind in a sound body."

[B2] 2024 PLAYTIME! (2024) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Anna Laetitia Barbauld prophesied the rise of America to a status higher than Britain in a poem in this genre titled Eighteen Hundred and Eleven. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: satires [accept but do NOT reveal Juvenalian satires]):
    Name this genre. Samuel Johnson parodied two works of another poet in this genre in his poems London and The Vanity of Human Wishes.
  Part 2 (ans: Juvenal [or Decimus Junius Juvenalis]):
    Johnson's The Vanity of Human Wishes parodied satires by this Roman poet, who coined the phrases "bread and circuses" and "who watches the watchmen?"
  Part 3 (ans: couplets [accept heroic couplets]):
    The Vanity of Human Wishes is composed of the "heroic" type of these two-line stanzas.

[B3] 2024 CULT (2024) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This location became the headquarters for the MLC after its 1998 capture by Jean-Pierre Bemba. For ten points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gbadolite ):
    Name this town on the Ubangi River, whose airport was built to accommodate the supersonic Concorde for quick shopping trips to Paris. This "Versailles of the Jungle" was once home to a nuclear bunker and a complex of Chinese pagodas, though it now lies in ruin.
  Part 2 (ans: Angolan Civil War):
    At his opulent residence in Gbadolite, Mobutu Sese Seko held a 1989 summit to negotiate a ceasefire during this war. This war's belligerents Jonas Savimbi and Jose Eduardo dos Santos signed the resulting Gbadolite Declaration as the respective leaders of UNITA and the MPLA.
  Part 3 (ans: Juvenal Habyarimana):
    As Laurent Kabila's troops marched on Gbadolite during the First Congo War, Mobutu fled his palace with the remains of this leader that he had kept in a private mausoleum. Mobutu had earlier recovered this leader's body from the freezer of an army barracks.

[B4] 2019 Spartan Housewrite (2019) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The Banyamulenge ("Ban-ya-moo-len-gay") are a subgroup of this ethnic group that has been targeted by the Mai-Mai militia in their native North Kivu province. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tutsi [prompt on, but do not reveal, Banyarwanda]):
    Name this ethnic group who were also the targets of a campaign of terror by a group whose name translates as "those who work together" called the Interahamwe. That campaign was ended by this group's RPF militia.
  Part 2 (ans: Rwanda):
    The Interahamwe participated in mass killings of Tutsi in this East African country now led by the former Tutsi rebel Paul Kagame. An ideology of "Hutu power" was developed in this country by media outlets like Radio Mil Colonnes.
  Part 3 (ans: Juvenal Habyarimana [be somewhat lenient with pronunciation]):
    The Rwandan Genocide began after a plane crash under suspicious circumstances killed this president of Rwanda who had earlier signed the Arusha Accords with the RPF along with the president of Burundi, Cyprien Ntaryamira (en-tar-yah-mee-rah).

[B5] 2017 Eisenhower Memorial Tournament (EMT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | History
     Leadin: The handling of this event was criticized by Romeo Dallaire in his book Shake Hands with the Devil. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans:  Rwandan Genocide [or Rwanda Genocide of 1994]):
    Name this 1994 event, which began after the death of Cyprien Ntaryamira ["Neh-tar-yah-mee-rah"], the President of Burundi. RTLM broadcast the phrase "cut down the tall trees" to signal the beginning of this event, where hundreds of thousands of Tutsi were killed by Hutu militias.
  Part 2 (ans: Belgium [or the Kingdom of Belgium; or Konigreich Belgien; or Koninkrijk Belgie; or Royaume de Belgique]):
    Control of Rwanda passed from Germany to this other European country, which further intensified divisions between the Hutu and Tutsi by lending support to the Tutsi elite.
  Part 3 (ans: Juvenal Habyarimana):
    This President of Rwanda was killed in the same plane crash as Ntaryamira. His death prompted RTLM to broadcast to "cut down the tall trees."

[B6] 2016 Oxford Open (2016) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: If there was one literary genre the Romans didn't take from the Greeks, it was satire. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juvenal (Decimus Iunius Iuvenalis)):
    This poet's famous phrase quis custodiet ipsos custodies in context mocks the decline of womanly virtue, rather than government institutions. His 3rd Satire is all about the horrors of the foreigners packing Rome.
  Part 2 (ans: Martial (Marcus Valerius Martialis)):
    This poet's witty epigrams contain such noble advice as Ride, si sapis. He is also a notable literary source of Roman vulgarity, though he insisted "My poems are naughty, but my life is pure".
  Part 3 (ans: Petronius):
    This author's only known work is the first Roman novel that we have, the Satyricon, known for the Cena Trimalchionis. He may have been the fashion adviser of Nero.

[B7] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This poem complains about a litany of evils, including women participating in boar hunts and the exiled Marius Priscus spending all afternoon drinking. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juvenal's First Satire [or: obvious equivalents]):
    Name this programmatic poem, which declares that "it is difficult not to write" works in the genre to which it belongs.
  Part 2 (ans: the watchmen [or: the guards, ipsos custodes]):
    Juvenal's Sixth Satire is the source of a famous quote about who watches these people. That quote provided the title of a graphic novel by Alan Moore.
  Part 3 (ans: friendship [or:amicitia]):
    Juvenal's Twelfth Satire is on this topic. Cicero wrote about Scipio Aemilianus and Laelius in a treatise on this topic.

[B8] 2015 ACF Nationals (2015) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This poem claims that "luxury" is "more damaging than any foe" and notes that "we are now suffering the calamities of a long peace". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juvenal's Satire VI [or Juvenal's sixth satire; or Decimus Junius Juvenalis in place of "Juvenal"; prompt on partial answers]):
    Name this poem that attacks the morality of women while advising its addressee not to marry. Its most famous line comes after the speaker recounts advice to "keep your women at home, and put them under lock and key."
  Part 2 (ans: bread and circuses [or bread and games; or panis et circenses; or panem et circenses]):
    In the tenth satire, Juvenal bemoans that the public no longer cares about government corruption, instead pointing out that the public is only satiated by these two things.
  Part 3 (ans: a big fish [or mullet; or turbot]):
    In the fourth of Juvenal's satires, the courtier Crispinus purchases a big one of these things for 6,000 sesterces, thus baffling Domitian's various counselors. Montanus suggests having potters make a giant vessel for it.

[B9] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | History
     Leadin: The beginning of this poem addresses Postumus and proposes that he hang himself from the Aemilian bridge or find a boy lover instead of getting married. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Satire VI):
    Name this poem written as a diatribe against marriage and women. It includes the famous line "Sed quis custodiet ipsos custodes?", or "But who will guard the guards themselves?"
  Part 2 (ans: Juvenal):
    This Roman poet included detailed discussion of the mores and traditions of Roman society in his Satires.
  Part 3 (ans: Roman soldiers (or miles or milites)):
    Juvenal's fragmentary last Satire describes the certain advantages that people with this occupation had over normal citizens. Plautus created one of these people who abducts Philocomasium for himself and inspired a famous archetype in Commedia dell'arte.

[B10] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This phrase originally appeared in a poem in which Postumus is warned against marriage, as a response to the advice "throw the bolt and lock her in". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "Sed quis custodiet ipsos custodes?" [or "But who watches the watchmen?" or clear translational equivalents, like "but who will guard the guards themselves?"]):
    Identify this most famous phrase from a poem about the decay of feminine virtue, the sixth Satire of a certain Roman poet.
  Part 2 (ans: Juvenal [or Decimus Iunius Iuvenalis; or Decimus Junius Juvenalis]):
    The sixteen Satires are the most famous works of this man, who also coined the phrase "bread and circuses" in the tenth of those poems.
  Part 3 (ans: "a sound mind in a sound body" [or "mens sana in corpore sano"; or "a healthy mind in a healthy body" or equivalents]):
    Juvenal's tenth satire also coined this phrase, the first entry in a list of things that one should pray to the gods for, where it immediately precedes "a stout heart that has no fear of death".

[B11] 2014 Chicago Open (2014) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This man is thought to have negotiated the Arusha Accords in bad faith, but got his comeuppance when his own Hutu extremists killed him to initiate the Rwandan genocide. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Juvenal Habyarimana):
    Name this Rwandan president who was shot down in his French-built plane on August 6, 1994 at the start of the genocide.
  Part 2 (ans: Lt. General Romeo [Antonius] Dallaire):
    The character of Colonel North in Hotel Rwanda is based primarily on this real-life Canadian commander of UNAMIR credited with saving 20,000 lives.
  Part 3 (ans: "tall trees" [accept "cut down the tall trees"; prompt on "trees"]):
    Once the genocide began, the Hutu-controlled RTLM encouraged the slaughter by broadcasting a message for Hutus to "cut down" these arboreal things, referencing the stature of the Tutsis.

[B12] 2014 ACF Regionals (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Name some things about Roman literature, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Horace [or Quintus Horatius Flaccus]):
    This poet of a bunch of odes coined a number of phrases which are still in use today, including "dulce et decorum est pro patria mori," "carpe diem," and "in medias res," the last of which was used in his Ars Poetica.
  Part 2 (ans: The Eunuch [or Eunuchus]):
    This play by Terence is about a plot to rape Pamphila. Chaerea poses as the title character and everything seems groovy until Thais spills the beans and causes Chaerea to be beaten and whipped.
  Part 3 (ans: Juvenal [or Decimus Iunius Iuvenalis]):
    Like Horace, this poet coined several popular phrases, including "bread and circuses," "a sound mind in a sound body," and "who watches the watchmen?"
