=== STOCK CLUES: Donizetti ===
Tossup questions: 5 found, 30 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 10 found, 30 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2025 NAFTA (2025) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gaetano Donizetti (The leadin refers to Maria Stuarda.)
  - The title character of an opera by this composer insults the other female lead by calling her an "impure daughter" and "vile bastard" during their confrontation scene. [PWR]
  - Beverly Sills made the cover of Time after starring in the New York City Opera's 1971 revival of three of this composer's works.
  - This composer's excerpt "Ardon gli incensi" often ends with a flute cadenza by Mathilde Marchesi , as in Joan Sutherland's Met debut.
  - This composer wrote three operas about the lives of (*) Tudor queens, including Roberto Devereux. [PWR]
  - This composer's sextet "Chi mi frena in tal momento" follows a scene in which the title soprano is tricked into signing a marriage contract, which leads her to murder her husband Arturo.
  - For 10 points, name this bel canto composer who wrote a famous "mad scene" for Lucia di Lammermoor. [GIVE]

[T2] 2018 ACF Regionals (2018) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gaetano Donizetti
  - Complaining of this composer's constant output, Hector Berlioz noted "one can no longer speak of the opera houses of Paris, but only of" [this man's] opera houses.
  - This composer's mentor Simon Mayr  refused to call him "Maestro" until this composer wrote an opera in which Smeton drops a locket with a portrait of the title queen at the feet of her husband Enrico, who has his eye on Giovanna Seymour.
  - An aria composed by this man has been called the "Mount Everest" of tenor arias because it features nine high Cs.
  - Another of this composer's tenor arias is sung after a woman drinks cheap red wine and begins to shed tears.
  - In an opera by this composer of The Daughter of the Regiment, the aria "Una furtiva lagrima" is sung by Nemorino after the hack Dr.
  - Dulcamara sells him the title potion.
  - For 10 points name this Italian composer of The Elixir of Love. [GIVE]

[T3] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gaetano Donizetti [or Dominico Gaetano Maria Donizetti]
  - This composer used themes from "Home Sweet Home" in a scene where a woman asks to be led to the castle where she was born.
  - That opera by this composer ends with the challenging soprano cabaletta "Coppia iniqua." The title character of another opera by this composer gets distracted while playing piano with the Marquise of Birkenfeld, who is revealed to be her mother. [PWR]
  - Another of his characters sings "Udite, udite, o rustici" to make a (*) sales pitch to some villagers.
  - This composer called for the tenor to sing nine high Cs in "Ah! mes amis," in his opera about Marie, who is raised as an army's canteen girl.
  - In his best-known opera, Dr.
  - Dulcamara sells Bordeaux wine to Nemorino, who sings about a single tear he saw in Adina's eye in "Una furtiva lagrima." For 10 points, name this composer of The Daughter of the Regiment and The Elixir of Love. [GIVE]

[T4] 2012 QUARK (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Gaetano Donizetti
  - This composer wrote an opera whose main soprano sings an aria which repeats the phrases "over there" and "it is there" and praises the title group, who is "feared by one sex and loved by the other," as "everyone knows." In addition to "Chacun le sait," that opera by this composer also contains a tenor aria with nine high C's, "Ah, mes amis," which is sung by Tonio, who has joined the title group so that he can marry (*) Marie, the title character. [PWR]
  - He also composed an opera which begins with Normanno searching for an intruder, who turns out to be Edgardo.
  - That opera also features the aria "Il dolce suono," which is more commonly known as the "mad scene," sung by the protagonist, who is based on Lucy Ashton, the title character of a Walter Scott novel.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of The Daughter of the Regiment and Lucia di Lammermoor, as well as The Elixir of Love. [GIVE]

[T5] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Domenico Gaetano Maria Donizetti
  - During a singing lesson in one of this composer's works, one character sings parts of the aria "Chacun le sait," which had already been sung in the previous act. [PWR]
  - In another opera by this man, Giannetta and a group of workers hear the love story of Tristan and Isolde. [PWR]
  - This composer created a tenor who sings many high Cs in "Ah! mes amis" while describing his efforts to wed the title character who is helped by (*) Sulpice. [PWR]
  - In another of his works, Belcore is supposed to marry Adina after some fraud is committed by Dr.
  - Dulcamara, and Nemorino sings "Una furtiva lagrima" in that work.
  - This man's also created a character sings "Il dolce suono" in a mad scene; that character is loved by Edgardo who ends the opera by killing himself.
  - For 10 points, name this composer of the operas The Daughter of the Regiment, The Elixir of Love, and Lucia di Lammermoor. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Answer some questions about live recordings of operatic moments in which a soprano held a high note over the ensemble. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Aida):
    During performances of this opera in Mexico City, Maria Callas interpolated a high E-flat at the end of this opera's Act II finale, "Gloria all'Egitto." The title Ethiopian princess of this Verdi opera sings, "O patria mia."
  Part 2 (ans: Montserrat Caballe [or Maria de Montserrat Bibiana Concepcion Caballe i Folch]):
    At the end of a 1972 performance of Don Carlo at the Met, this soprano held a high B for nine full measures. This soprano is best known for her floated pianissimi and collaborating with Freddie Mercury on the album Barcelona.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti):
    Caballe floated a pianissimo on G for 22 seconds in a performance of this composer's opera Maria Stuarda. This composer's "Three Queens" operas include Anna Bolena and Roberto Devereux.

[B2] 2025 Chicago Open (2025) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The Polish church musician Wojciech ("VOY-check") Bobowski adapted Western staff notation for this empire's music. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Ottoman Empire [or Sublime Ottoman State or Osmanlı Imparatorlugu or Osmanlı Devleti or Devlet-i Aliyye-i Osmaniyye; prompt on Turkey or Turkiye or Turkish Empire]):
    Name this empire whose classical music centered around secular vocal suites called fasıls. This empire's mehteran bands inspired the A minor finale of Mozart's eleventh piano sonata.
  Part 2 (ans: Giuseppe Donizetti [or Donizetti Pasha] (He was the brother of Gaetano Donizetti.)):
    Mehteran were briefly replaced by Western-style military bands as part of an early 19th-century Westernization program spearheaded by this Italian-born composer. This composer's Mahmudiye Marsı ("mah-MOO-dee-yeh MAR-shih") was the Ottoman Empire's first national anthem.
  Part 3 (ans: Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 [or Beethoven's ninth symphony; or the "Choral" Symphony] (The zurna is a high-pitched double reed instrument related to the European shawm.)):
    A B-flat major Turkish march in this symphony's variation-form finale imitates the piercing tone of the Turkish zurna by giving a piccolo the melody. Wagner described the start of this symphony's D major finale as a "terror fanfare."

[B3] 2024 NASAT (2024) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: "Santa Lucia," a traditional song in this genre, was translated from Neapolitan into Italian by Teodoro Cottrau. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: barcarolles [or barcarola; or barcaruola]):
    Name this genre, which typically uses a 6/8 meter. In an opera, Nicklausse and Giulietta sing "Beautiful Night, Oh Night of Love," an example of this genre based on Venetian gondolier songs.
  Part 2 (ans: Arthur Sullivan [Arthur Seymour Sullivan]):
    This composer used the barcarolle for "Of all the young ladies I know" in Iolanthe ("eye-oh-LANTH-ee"). Another barcarolle is found in H. M. S. Pinafore, a collaboration between this composer and W. S. Gilbert.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti [Domenico Gaetano Maria Donizetti] [The aria is "Una Furtiva Lagrima" from L'elisir d'amore.]):
    A barcarolle for a gondolier and chorus opens this composer's opera Marino Faliero. The singer cries out, "Cielo! Si puo morir!" in a tenor aria by this composer sung by a peasant.

[B4] 2020 Michigan Winter Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Other Academic
     Leadin: Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote lines satirizing the Obama birther controversy for her cameo in the 2016 Washington National Opera production of this opera, as the non-singing Duchess of Krakenthorp. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: La Fille du Regiment [or The Daughter of the Regiment]):
    Name this opera comique set during the Napoleonic wars. A tenor aria from this opera "Ah! mes amis," which Tonio sings about Marie, is notable for requiring the tenor to sing nine high Cs.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti):
    La Fille du Regiment is by this Italian composer, who included the aria "Il dolce suono" in the "mad scene" from his Lucia di Lammermoor. Other operas by this composer include Don Pasquale and The Elixir of Love.
  Part 3 (ans: bel canto):
    Donizetti was often grouped with Vincenzo Bellini and Gioachino Rossini during a 1950s "revival" of a style of opera known by this name. Characterized by dramatic melodic lines and smooth vocal legato, it is Italian for "beautiful singing."

[B5] 2017 Early Fall Tournament (EFT) (2017) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: Almost no performances of this composer's opere serie took place in the 19th century, with his Alcina [ahl-CHEE-nah] not being performed from 1738 to 1928. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: George Frideric Handel):
    Name this composer of Giulio Cesare [JOO-lee-oh CHEH-zah-ray], best known for oratorios such as Messiah.
  Part 2 (ans: bel canto):
    Handel's operas heavily employ this Italian singing technique, which uses a small vocal range and focuses on control of tone intensity. It takes its name from words meaning "beautiful song."
  Part 3 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti):
    Scholars in the 1950s credited this composer with playing a major role in the "bel canto revival." Despite being Italian, this composer wrote a French language opera containing the aria "Ah! Mes amis," which requires a tenor to hit nine high Cs.

[B6] 2014 SUBMIT (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man co-wrote the play Adrienne Lecouvreur with Ernest Legouve, but is better known for his contributions to opera. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Eugene Scribe):
    Name this librettist of operas such as Fra Diavolo and Les Huguenots.
  Part 2 (ans: grand opera):
    Giacomo Meyerbeer, the composer of Les Huguenots, wrote in this style of opera, which includes La Muette di Portici and employs large casts and often lavish designs.
  Part 3 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti):
    Scribe wrote the libretto to Dom Sebastien, an opera by this Italian composer better known for The Elixir of Love and Lucia di Lammermoor.

[B7] 2014 Oxford Open (2014) | Diff: 8 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: In this work, the peasant Nemorino is in love with Adina, but she only reciprocates when she finds out that he joined the army in order to pay a charlatan for wine he believes to be a magic potion. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: L'elisir d'amore or The Elixir of Love):
    Nemorino sings the aria "Una furtiva lacrima" in this opera, after believing Adina has finally fallen in love with him.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti):
    This composer of Lucia di Lammermoor wrote L'elisir d'amore.
  Part 3 (ans: Don Pasquale):
    In this other Donizetti opera, the eponymous protagonist and his doctor Malatesta sing the duet "Cheti chete immaninenti", and the characters learn not to marry in old age.

[B8] 2014 ACF Nationals (2014) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: One character in this opera instructs his cousin to pose as a notary for a marriage contract, and has to sing "Figliol non mi far scene" to get Ernesto to shut up as the title character is on the cusp of being hoodwinked. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Don Pasquale):
    Name this opera bufa in which the title old bachelor disinherits his nephew Ernesto, who is in love with Norina, and consults with the roguish physician Dr. Malatesta to fnd a wife so that he can father his own heir.
  Part 2 (ans: (Domenico) Gaetano (Maria) Donizetti):
    This composer of Don Pasquale included the aria "Una furtiva lagrima" in his opera about a glorifed bottle of Bordeaux wine, The Elixir of Love.
  Part 3 (ans: soubrette):
    Don Pasquale's Norina is a quintessential role of this kind, a stock coy and conceited female character. Sopranos with light voices and mid-range tessituras, who are just starting out, ofen sing these roles.

[B9] 2013 Terrapin (2013) | Diff: 7 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: This man left Naples for Paris after censors refused to allow his production of Poliuto. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti):
    Identify this Italian composer of Lucia di Lammermoor and The Daughter of the Regiment.
  Part 2 (ans: Don Pasquale):
    This Donizetti opera opens with the title character in the house of Dr. Malatesta singing how he will sire six children with Malatesta's sister. Other characters include the title character's nephew, Ernesto.
  Part 3 (ans: Stabat Mater):
    Donizetti once conducted a work of this name by Rossini in Bologna, which contains a popular andantino maestoso section. Dvorak's work of this name was inspired by the death of his daughter, Josefa, and uses a largo choir for the seventh part, "Virgo virginum praeclara."

[B10] 2013 ACF Nationals (2013) | Diff: 9 | Fine Arts
     Leadin: The lead soprano roles of this opera, Anna Bolena, and Maria Stuarda are often known as the "Three Queens," and Beverly Sills performed all three as a series at the New York City Opera. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roberto Devereux):
    Name this opera in which a blue scarf convinces Elizabeth I that the title character is in love with another woman. Elizabeth sings the mad scene "Vivi ingrato...Quel sangue versato" after ordering the title character's execution.
  Part 2 (ans: Gaetano Donizetti):
    Roberto Devereux was written by this Italian composer of Lucrezia Borgia, Don Pasquale, and Lucia di Lammermoor.
  Part 3 (ans: coloratura soprano):
    The lead role in Lucia di Lammermoor is an example of this type of soprano, who is able to sing elaborate vocal lines embellished with trills and arpeggios. Other dramatic roles for this type of soprano include the Queen of the Night in The Magic Flute.
