=== STOCK CLUES: Edward Lear ===
Tossup questions: 1 found, 4 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 2 found, 6 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2020 FLopen (2020) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Edward Lear
  - A John Ashbury cento from his collection Wakefulness that begins by quoting Byron's "The Battle of Waterloo" is named for a poem by this other poet. [PWR]
  - In one poem, this poet wrote about the King and Queen of the pelicans hosting a party on the banks of the Nile for their daughter Nell. [PWR]
  - A character created by this author gathers the bark of the Tangum tree to construct an apparatus with a lamp inside after being spurned by a girl with (*) sky-blue hands and green hair. [PWR]
  - In another poem, this poet wrote about a group of creatures that, despite reservation from their friends, "went to sea in a Sieve." This author of "The Dong with A Luminous Nose" and "The Jumblies" also created a pair of characters that eat "mince and slices of quince" with a "runcible spoon" after going to sea in a "pea-green boat." For 10 points, name this Victorian nonsense poet who wrote "The Owl and the Pussycat." [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2025 WAO (2025) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: A woman who married into this family maintained a multi-decade correspondence with an author who named his villa in Sanremo after her. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tennyson [or Emily Tennyson; or Alfred, Lord Tennyson]):
    Name this family into which the sisters Louisa and Emily married. Emily composed music for poems such as "Break, Break, Break," written by her spouse with this family name.
  Part 2 (ans: Edward Lear):
    This longtime correspondent of Emily Tennyson illustrated and composed music for many of Alfred's poems. This author's nonsense poems include "The Owl and the Pussy-Cat."
  Part 3 (ans: "Sweet and Low"):
    Edward Lear composed a lullaby-like musical setting of this poem by Tennyson, which appears between cantos II and III of The Princess. This poem's title phrase describes the "Wind of the western sea."

[B2] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: His most famous protagonist figures out the relationship between the odd pattern of footsteps he hears and the theft of some pearl-handled fish cutlery in "The Queer Feet". For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: G (ilbert) K (eith) Chesterton):
    Name this creator of the priest-detective Father Brown who wrote of a policeman going undercover as an anarchist in The Man Who Was Thursday.
  Part 2 (ans: (Joseph) Hilaire (Pierre) Belloc):
    This erstwhile collaborator of G.K. Chesterton and fellow staunch Catholic detailed a trip he took from France across to Italy in The Path to Rome and wrote Cautionary Tales For Children.
  Part 3 (ans: Edward Lear):
    This earlier poet of light verse for children wrote A Book of Nonsense and a poem in which the title creatures go to sea in a pea-green boat, "The Owl and the Pussycat".
