=== STOCK CLUES: Marcel Proust ===
Tossup questions: 11 found, 68 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 23 found, 69 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2024 ACF Nationals (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]
  - The protagonist of a novel by this author compares the habits of a "neurasthenic"  relative to a "miserable" water lily that perpetually floats back and forth across a river.
  - A book by this author opens with the narrator trying to watch a bee fertilizing an orchid, only to catch sight of a sexual encounter in a tailor's shop.
  - In Fun Home, Alison Bechdel  theorizes that this author inspired her father's love of lilacs.
  - In a novel by this author, two lovers use the phrase "to do a cattleya " as a euphemism for sex after one rearranges the other's corsage.
  - The narrator of a novel by this author becomes obsessed with the pink hawthorn blossoms that line the path to the house of a man who associates his relationship with a "little phrase" in a sonata.
  - For 10 points, Within a Budding Grove is a volume in what author's novel In Search of Lost Time? [GIVE]

[T2] 2023 IQBT Undergraduate Championship (2023) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust ("proost") [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]
  - A character created by this author mourns the death of his grandmother in a section called "The Intermittencies of the Heart." A book by this author ends with a man bemoaning that he wasted years loving a woman "who wasn't even [his] type." That character created by this author uses a bee fertilizing an orchid as an analogy for the homosexual encounter he witnesses between a baron and the tailor Jupien . [PWR]
  - The first English translation of this author's major work was named for a line in (*) Shakespeare's Sonnet 30, and was by C.K. [PWR]
  - Scott Moncrieff.
  - A phrase from a violin sonata by Vinteuil  symbolizes Charles Swann's love in a novel by this author in which involuntary memories are triggered by eating a tea-soaked madeleine.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

[T3] 2023 "Questions Based on Wikipedia Links Ophir Sent Me" (2023) | Diff: 10 | Fine Arts
     Answer: Marcel Proust [accept Proust Questionnaire]
  - This person wrote "Beethoven, Wagner, Schumann" next to "My favorite composers" while filling out a "confession album," a fad that has been revived as this person's namesake "Questionnaire." This person's work inspired the use of brief segments called "parentheses"  in Henri Dutilleux's  string quartet Ainsi la nuit .
  - This person wrote many letters to Zadig, the dog of the composer of A Chloris  and the Chansons grises . [PWR]
  - Competing theories hold that this (*) author's description of a piece in F-sharp was modeled on Franck, Brahms, or Saint-Saens.
  - This person's diaries describe the noisy visits of his lover, the Venezuelan composer Reynaldo Hahn, to the cork-lined room where he spent the last years of his life.
  - For 10 points, what author described a sonata by the fictional composer Vinteuil ? [GIVE]

[T4] 2022 MRNA VACCINE (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust
  - The sisters Maria and Nathalia Milstein theorize that a musical theme in one of this author's novels came from a Gabriel Perne D Minor Sonata. [PWR]
  - One of this author's characters receives a magic lantern that projects images of children's books and seems to distort his bedroom.
  - The narrator receives habitual goodnight kisses from his mother in an "overture" by this author that begins "for a long time I went to (*) bed early." C. [PWR]
  - K.
  - Scott Montcrief translated the titles of books by this author as Cities of the Plain and Within a Budding Grove.
  - The narrator remembers his childhood at Combray after biting into a tea-soaked madeleine in this author's book Swann's Way.
  - For 10 points, name this French modernist who wrote In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

[T5] 2021 Illinois Open (2021) | Diff: 10 | Other Academic
     Answer: Marcel Proust 
  - This man's passive-aggressive letters about the noisy Dr. [PWR]
  - Gagey were recently collected in Letters To His Neighbor. [PWR]
  - William C. [PWR]
  - Carter has edited books on both this man's Swedish valet and on this author "In Love," the latter of which contains a notorious anecdote about this man and the "sex rats." Examples from this man on how to "suffer successfully" and "put books down" are included in a popular book on how this frail author "Can Change Your Life," written by (*) Alain de Botton. [PWR]
  - The Milstein Duo included songs by this author's lover Reynaldo Hahn among other interpretations of a fictional "little phrase" which one of his characters hears coming from an open window at M.
  - Vinteuil's house.
  - This author described a young boy's inability to sleep at night in his childhood home in Combray in a novel describing the disastrous marriage between Odette de Crecy and Charles Swann.
  - For 10 points, name this French author of the multi-volume series In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

[T6] 2020 Terrapin (2020) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust ("proost")
  - This author created a character who, in a tirade, imagines forcing a Jewish character's family to reenact David and Goliath's battle at a salon. [PWR]
  - In another scene, a character created by this author misinterprets a historian's remark, "You really have a fairy's touch," as directed towards him after he accidentally topples over a vase of apple blossoms. [PWR]
  - After the narrator of that novel by this author is accused of spreading lies, he angrily tramples upon a possibly homosexual character's new silk hat. [PWR]
  - In a novel by this author, (*) Bloch attends a dinner party where he attempts to badger Madame de Norpois  into a debate about the Dreyfus Affair.
  - This author created the Baron de Charlus  in his best-known work, which begins with a section in which Vinteuil's  violin sonata becomes the "national anthem" of the title character's love for Odette de Crecy.
  - For 10 points, name this author who included The Guermantes Way and Swann's Way in his In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

[T7] 2020 Longhorn Invitational Tournament (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust
  - A series of lectures on this author were delivered by Jozef Czapski in a Soviet prison camp. [PWR]
  - Terence Kilmartin revised an earlier translation of a book by this author, the first part of which was translated by Lydia Davis for Penguin Classics. [PWR]
  - This lover of the composer Reynaldo Hahn wrote about a homosexual encounter between a tailor and the (*) Baron de Charlus in the book Sodom and Gomorrah. [PWR]
  - C.K.
  - Scott Moncrieff's translation of this author's most notable novel took its title from Shakespeare's Sonnet 30.
  - This creator of the Guermantes family wrote a passage in Swann's Way where the narrator has an involuntary flashback after biting into a madeleine .
  - For 10 points, name this French author of the lengthy novel In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

[T8] 2020 ACF Regionals (2020) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust [accept Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]
  - A drawing of a grain of wheat is at the center of one of the diagrams of this author's work that Jozef Czapski made for lectures on this author that he delivered in a Soviet prison camp.
  - Eric Karpeles wrote a companion to this writer's allusions to art, such as the nickname "Giotto's Charity" that is given to a kitchen-maid or the description of a woman resembling Botticelli's Zipporah.
  - A character created by this author associates his beloved with a "little phrase" in a violin sonata.
  - This author's magnum opus was retitled after a phrase from Shakespeare's Sonnet 30 in the original English translation by C.
  - K.
  - Scott Moncrief.
  - For 10 points, memories of Combray are brought back by the taste of a tea-soaked madeleine in Swann's Way, the first part of what French author's In Search of Lost Time? [GIVE]

[T9] 2015 VCU Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust
  - Alain de Botton's first non-fiction work was a self-help book called How [this author] Can Change Your Life.
  - A monograph on this author arguing that he completely ignored moral considerations was written by Samuel Beckett, and discusses Beckett's own preoccupations as much as this author's. [PWR]
  - This author criticized one of his countrymen for his contradictory attitude towards Charles (*) Baudelaire in a series of essays which argued against the importance of biographical information in literary criticism. [PWR]
  - He wrote a novel beginning "For a long time, I went to bed early" whose narrator is friends with the army officer Robert de Saint-Loup and loves the deceitful Albertine.
  - For 10 points, name this author of Contre Sainte-Beuve and In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

[T10] 2013 DRAGOON (2013) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Marcel Proust
  - One of this novelist's books opens by discussing the laws of the vegetable kingdom and describes a sexual encounter between the Baron de Charlus and Jupien.
  - His characters include a composer that creates a violin and piano sonata whose theme incorporates his daughter's lesbian love. [PWR]
  - One of his novels begins with an "overture" in which the narrator is unable to go to sleep because he has not received a (*) kiss from his mother.
  - This author wrote about a man who pursues Albertine and Gilberte.
  - The second half of one of his novels concerns a man who madly pursues Odette de Crecy.
  - He wrote about how a madeleine soaked in lime-blossom tea triggered involuntary memory in his novel Swann's Way, the first part of a 7-novel sequence.
  - For 10 points, name this author of In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

[T11] 2012 Penn-ance (2012) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust
  - After leaving a sanatorium, one character created by this author finds invitations to a supper given by an actress he had seen perform several times as well as to an afternoon reception hosted by an aristocratic family. [PWR]
  - That character created by this author suspects an affair with Andree, but then says that he will marry her; however, that message goes unreceived because the intended recipient dies in a (*) horse riding accident. [PWR]
  - The lesbian Albertine features in The Fugitive and The Prisoner, works by this author who created a character who recalls his childhood while eating a madeleine.
  - This author wrote about the infidelity in between Forcheville and Odette de Crecy.
  - For 10 points, name this author of The Guermantes Way and Swann's Way, two volumes of his In Search of Lost Time. [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2026 ACF Regionals (2026) | Diff: 8 | Other Academic
     Leadin: This is likely the most famous entry in a genre of 19th- and 20th-century parlor game called a confession album, in which participants filled in answers to prompts like "your favorite virtue." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Proust Questionnaire [prompt on Marcel Proust]):
    Name this set of statements whose originator wrote "feminine charm" in response to the prompt "your favorite qualities in a man." It is named for an author who first answered it at age fourteen for the daughter of Felix Faure ("for").
  Part 2 (ans: the Actors Studio [accept Inside the Actors Studio]):
    James Lipton used a variant of the Proust Questionnaire in interviews as the host of a Bravo show titled for going "Inside" this organization. Elia Kazan co-founded this organization where Lee Strasberg taught the "Method."
  Part 3 (ans: Vanity Fair):
    This magazine features a Proust Questionnaire on the back page of each monthly issue. This pop culture magazine shares its name with an 1847 novel about Becky Sharp by William Makepeace Thackeray.

[B2] 2025 Penn Bowl (2025) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a poem, Anne Carson wrote that this character's problems are "lying" and "lesbianism" from the narrator's point of view, and "being imprisoned in the narrator's house" from her point of view. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albertine Simonet [or Albertine Simonet; accept Albertine disparu]):
    Name this character who the narrator meets at Balbec. Her "disappearance" in a horse racing accident titles a long novel's sixth volume, which is sometimes translated as The Fugitive.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]):
    A theory holds that this author's character Albertine is actually male and based on his chauffeur. A tea-soaked madeleine triggers memories in Swann's Way, the first volume of a novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Francoise Sagan [or Francoise Delphine Quoirez] (The novel is Bonjour Tristesse.)):
    This author, who took her pseudonym from a Proust character, began reading Proust with Albertine disparu. In a novel by this author, a teenaged girl plots against her father's mistress Anne, who threatened to stop spoiling her.

[B3] 2024 ARGOS (2024) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: Note to moderator: Read the alternative answerlines carefully. The narrator of Sylvie has a vision of Sylvie against a window in which these two plants are "interlaced." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the vine AND the rose [for the vine: accept the grape-vine; accept the grape-vine; accept the vine-leaf; accept le Pampre; for the rose: accept the rose-tree; accept la rose]):
    Name these two plants. The speaker of Gerard de Nerval's sonnet "El Desdichado" mentions an "arbor" or "trellis" where these two plants "twine joyously."
  Part 2 (ans: Edgar Allan Poe):
    Umberto Eco contrasted the "mad innocence" in Sylvie's visions and flash-forwards with the "excess of formulas" present in this author's essay "The Philosophy of Composition."
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]):
    Eco's Six Walks in the Fictional Woods repeatedly cites this author's analysis of Sylvie, including his claim that it is a "dream of a dream." Nerval may have inspired the dreaminess of this author's novel Swann's Way.

[B4] 2022 WORKSHOP (2022) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a list poem titled for this character's "Workout," Anne Carson notes that this character's name occurs 2,363 times in the novel she appears in, and that "on a good 19 per cent of these pages she is asleep." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Albertine Simonet [or Albertine Simonet; accept The Albertine Workout]):
    Name this character who is first glimpsed on a beach in Within a Budding Grove and later dies in a riding accident. In The Prisoner, the narrator jealously imprisons this character in his house over her lesbian affairs.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    The narrator, who is Albertine's lover, struggles to sleep without his mother's goodnight kiss in this author's novel In Search of Lost Time.
  Part 3 (ans: Andre Gide ("zheed") (The novel is The Pastoral Symphony.)):
    The Albertine Workout discusses this author's "transposition theory" that Proust's chauffeur inspired Albertine. In a novel by this author, Gertrude realizes that she loves the pastor's son Jacques after gaining her eyesight.

[B5] 2022 Chicago Open (2022) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This text begins with a series of photographs that are "the author's treat to himself" and represent his childhood in Bayonne. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Roland Barthes ("bart") [or Roland Barthes by Roland Barthes or Roland Barthes par Roland Barthes; prompt on R.B.]):
    Name this autobiographical work, sometimes seen as a follow-up to Empire of Signs, which consists of short entries or fragments arranged in a seemingly random order. This book's author remarks that "What I write about myself is never the last word."
  Part 2 (ans: doxa):
    In his autobiography, Barthes recalls trying to escape from this deeply ingrained concept. Classical philosophers contrasted this four-letter Greek term for popular opinion with episteme ("eh-pee-STEE-mee"), or knowledge.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust ("PROOST")] {The series is Remembrance of Things Past.}):
    A page of Roland Barthes with the heading "Contemporaries?" pairs the statement "I was beginning to walk" with this other French author finishing a series of seven novels including The Fugitive and Time Regained.

[B6] 2022 ACF Winter (2022) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Gabriel-Joseph de la Vergne ("VAYR-nyuh") attributed a series of these works to a Portuguese nun, despite writing them himself. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: letters [or correspondences; or missives; or epistles; accept epistolary novels; accept Letters of a Portuguese Nun or Les Lettres Portugaises]):
    Name this type of work. Madame de Sevigne ("say-veen-YAY") gained fame from the publication of over 1,000 of these works that she wrote over the course of 30 years.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust ("proost") [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]):
    The narrator's grandmother admires the letters of Madame de Sevigne ("say-veen-YAY") in this author's novel In Search of Lost Time.
  Part 3 (ans: Baron de Montesquieu [or Charles-Louis de Secondat]):
    In her novel Letters from a Peruvian Woman, Francoise de Graffigny ("frahn-SWAHZ duh grah-feen-YEE") criticizes French society from a fictional outsider's perspective in the style of this French author's Persian Letters.

[B7] 2021 ACF Regionals (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a lecture about this author, Bergotte's desire to see "View of Delft" before he dies is linked with the present danger facing the speaker. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust] (Proust's secretary, Albert Nahmias, was possibly the inspiration for Albertine.)):
    Name this author, the subject of a lecture series given by the artist Joseph Czapski ("CHAP-ski") in a Soviet prison camp. His most famous work, translated by C. K. Scott Moncrieff, may feature a gender-swapped version of his secretary.
  Part 2 (ans: Inferno [prompt on The Divine Comedyuntil read]):
    In Survival in Auschwitz, Primo Levi recites part of this work to a fellow prisoner. A reference to this first section of the Divine Comedy names a Solzhenitsyn novel about gulag technicians, The First Circle.
  Part 3 (ans: Alexander Blok [or Alexander Alexandrovich Blok]):
    Eugenia Ginzburg wrote about reciting this author's poetry in the gulags. The line "Black night, white snow" opens "The Twelve," a poem by this author that describes Jesus leading Bolshevik guards in a massacre.

[B8] 2021 ACF Nationals (2021) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: At a party held by the Swanns in this novel, the Narrator first meets the famous writer Bergotte, based on Anatole France. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Within a Budding Grove [or In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower; or A L'Ombre des Jeunes Filles en Fleurs]):
    Name this second volume of a larger novel. In this volume, the adolescent Narrator, after recovering from his infatuation with Gilberte, encounters Albertine Simonet among a group of girls on a beach at Balbec.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]):
    The writer Bergotte, the painter Elstir, and the composer Vinteuil ("van-TUH-ee") are among the artists who appear in this author's seven-volume masterpiece In Search of Lost Time, whose second volume is Within a Budding Grove.
  Part 3 (ans: View of Delft [or Gezicht op Delft] (by Jan Vermeer)):
    In The Captive, Bergotte dies from an illness in front of this painting. Just before dying, Bergotte realizes that he should have written in a style befitting a "patch of yellow wall" from this painting.

[B9] 2019 ACF Regionals (2019) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a Kenneth Rexroth poem named after this object, an old poker chip reminds the speaker of his father. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the madeleine from Remembrance of Things Past [or the madeleine from In Search of Lost Time; accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, "Proust's Madeleine"; prompt on sponge cake or pastry]):
    Name this item that the narrator of a novel dips in his tea, bringing back a flood of memories of his childhood in Combray.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]):
    The episode of the madeleine ("MAD-uh-lin") is from this author's magnum opus, Remembrance of Things Past.
  Part 3 (ans: Berma):
    In his youth, the narrator of Remembrance of Things Past is obsessed with this actress who often appears in Jean Racine's ("rah-SEEN's") plays. In Volume 2, the narrator finally gets to see her perform, but is let down by her acting.

[B10] 2019 ACF Nationals (2019) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: In a 2015 novel, the retiring classics professor Richard is ashamed to realize that he walked by ten African refugees conducting a hunger strike in this place without realizing it. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Berlin Alexanderplatz):
    Name this public square. It titles a Ulysses-inspired novel by Alfred Doblin that follows the criminal Franz Biberkopf after his release from prison.
  Part 2 (ans: Jenny Erpenbeck):
    The aforementioned novel about the European refugee crisis is Go, Went, Gone, a bestseller by this contemporary German author. She depicted a century of German history by following the visitors to a lake house in her novel Visitation.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    The narrator visits a warming hall near the Alexanderplatz in Walking in Berlin by Franz Hessel, a German translator of this author. The phenomenon of "involuntary memory" is often named for this French author.

[B11] 2018 Sun God Invitational (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This poet's Pulitzer-winning collection Divine Comedies contains "The Book of Ephraim," which describes a number of conversations with friends in another world. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: James Merrill):
    Name this American poet who used a ouija ("WEE-juh") board to write The Changing Light at Sandover.
  Part 2 (ans: Jackson [accept Matt Jackson or David Jackson or Shirley Jackson]):
    Matt, a character from The Changing Light at Sandover, shares this surname with Merrill's long-term partner, David. An author with this surname wrote about a town sacrificially stoning one of its residents in "The Lottery."
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust [accept "For Proust"]):
    Merrill's poem titled "For" this author opens "You stop for breath outside the lit hotel," referencing this author's asthma. The poem later states "There had been a little phrase / She hummed," referencing a novel by this author in which a "little phrase" in a violin sonata evokes the narrator's love.

[B12] 2018 Florida Spring Tournament (FST) (2018) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about In Search of Lost Time, also known as Remembrance of Things Past, for 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    It was written by this Frenchman who also wrote several essays in opposition to the title literary critic in Contra Seint-Beuve.
  Part 2 (ans: tea):
    One of the most widely discussed scenes from the work involves a involuntary memory being triggered by a madeleine cake dipped in this beverage.
  Part 3 (ans: going to bed [or going to sleep; accept word forms]):
    The first volume of In Search of Lost Time, titled Swann's Way, opens with the narrator noting that "for a long time [he] used to" perform this action early.

[B13] 2016 Terrapin (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: An author from this country inspired Cynthia Ozick's The Messiah of Stockholm and Jonathan Safran Foer's Tree of Codes. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Poland (Solaris is by Stanislaw Lem.)):
    Name this country home to that author of The Street of Crocodiles, Bruno Schulz. It's not Russia, but the author of the science fiction novel Solaris was also from this country.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    Isaac Singer compared Bruno Schulz to Kafka and to this French author of the seven-volume novel In Search of Lost Time, which C. K. Scott Moncrieff translated with the title Remembrance of Things Past.
  Part 3 (ans: wallets [or pocketbooks; or pouch; or coin purse]):
    In Schulz's surreal story "Cinnamon Shops," a boy rides a driverless carriage into the countryside after being sent to get his father's object of this sort. In Maupassant's "The Piece of String," Hauchecorne ("oash-CORN") is unable to convince anyone that he did not steal one of these objects.

[B14] 2016 MYSTERIUM (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer some questions about Ernst Robert Curtius, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages [or Europaische Literatur und lateinisches Mittelalter]):
    Curtius is best-known for this 1948 book, which claims that Renaissance literature was largely a continuation of Medieval rhetorical techniques. This book introduced the concept of a topos in the analysis of literary tropes.
  Part 2 (ans: philology):
    Like Erich Auerbach, Curtius wrote within this mainly German tradition of literary criticism. This broad study of literary texts takes its name from the Greek for "love of the word."
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    Before turning to the Middle Ages, Curtius was an expert in modern French literature, culminating in a book about this author of the extremely long autobiographical novel In Search of Lost Time.

[B15] 2016 MLK (2016) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: Answer the following about the French dandy Robert de Montesquiou, for 10 points each.
  Part 1 (ans: Baron de Charlus [or Palamede]):
    Montesquiou was the basis for this aristocratic character from In Search of Lost Time. The narrator ponders the nature of homosexuality after seeing this uncle of Robert de Saint-Loup have sex with Jupien.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    In Search of Lost Time is a novel by this author.
  Part 3 (ans: Joris-Karl Huysmans [or Charles-Marie-Georges Huysmans]):
    Montesquiou also inspired Des Esseintes, the decadent main character of Against the Grain, a novel by this French author. He wrote about Satanism in his novel La-bas.

[B16] 2016 Chicago Open (2016) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: This essay describes a "Latin theory" that declares Racine's Athalie to be the perfect example of the title entity. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: "What Is a Classic?" [or "Qu'est-ce qu'un classique?"]):
    Name this 1850 essay that declares the title entity to be an author who has caused the human mind "to advance a step" and who has written in a peculiar style "easily contemporary with all time."
  Part 2 (ans: Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve):
    "What Is a Classic?" is by this 19th-century French literary critic who wrote a massive history of the Port Royal abbey and a regular newspaper column called "Monday Chats."
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    Sainte-Beuve's biographically-oriented criticism was attacked in the essay "Against Sainte-Beuve" by this creator of Charles Swann and Odette de Crecy.

[B17] 2015 Chicago Open (2015) | Diff: 10 | History
     Leadin: This man may have fictionalized his affair with Victor Hugo's wife Adele in his only novel, Volupte. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve):
    Name this 19th century French literary critic, whose many literary "portraits" analyzed biographical details from an author's life in order to interpret an author's works.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    This author attacked Sainte-Beuve's views about literature in his book Against Sainte-Beuve. His only novel ends with a party thrown by the Prince of Guermantes in the section Time Regained.
  Part 3 (ans: John Ruskin):
    Proust's essay "On Reading" discusses his translation of this author's book Sesame and Lilies. Another of this author's books attacks the Industrial Revolution for dehumanizing workers in its section "The Nature of Gothic."

[B18] 2014 Penn Bowl (2014) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This man submitted a manuscript of his most famous work to the NRF, whereupon it was read and rejected by Andre Gide on the basis of a few minor errors. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]):
    Name this French author who expanded his unfinished early novel Jean Santeuil into Sodom and Gomorrah, Swann's Way, and the five other volumes of In Search of Lost Time.
  Part 2 (ans: Albertine Simonet [or Albertine Simonet]):
    Much of In Search of Lost Time is concerned with the narrator Marcel's relationship with his member of the "little band" of girls from Balbec. After she dies in a horse-riding accident, Marcel learns of her lesbian affairs.
  Part 3 (ans: C.K. Scott Moncrieff [or Charles Kenneth Scott Moncrieff; prompt on partial last name]):
    This Scotsman chose a quote from Shakespeare's Sonnet 30, "remembrance of things past", to title his famed translation of Proust's magnum opus.

[B19] 2014 PADAWAN (2014) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Leadin: This action is preceded by a description of the narrator's mother reading him George Sand for the first time. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: eating a tea-soaked madeleine [prompt on "cookie" or "cake" for "madeleine"]):
    Name this action that first summons the sense memory of the narrator's Aunt Leonie eating breakfast in bed on a Sunday morning in Combray.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust]):
    Eating a tea-soaked madeleine brings about the chain of memories that makes up this French author's massive seven-volume novel In Search of Lost Time.
  Part 3 (ans: Albertine):
    The sixth volume of In Search of Lost Time, The Fugitive, is titled for this character who dies in a riding accident near the beginning of the volume. In earlier scenes, the narrator suspects this lover of his of having an affair with Mademoiselle Vinteuil.

[B20] 2014 Cane Ridge Revival (2014) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: The 1950's was a good decade for French literature. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: The Mandarins [or Les Mandarins]):
    Anne Dubreuillh has an affair with Lewis Brogan in this 1954 novel about a circle of French intellectuals. Its author's lover Jean-Paul Sartre was fictionalized as Anne's husband, Robert.
  Part 2 (ans: (Valentin Louis Georges Eugene) Marcel Proust):
    In 1952, this author's early autobiographical novel Jean Santeuil was posthumously published. He may be better known for creating such characters as Odette de Crecy and Charles Swann.
  Part 3 (ans: Bonjour Tristesse):
    This 1954 novel by Francoise Sagan describes the amoral Cecile's attempts to break up the romantic relationship between her father, Raymond, and his new girlfriend, Anne Larsen.

[B21] 2013 NASAT (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: Despite the legacy of these people, Andre Gide wrote, "It is impossible to read a page of them where that good opinion they have of themselves does not burst out from between the lines." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: the Goncourt brothers [or Edmund and Jules de Goncourt]):
    Name these siblings, one of whom named Alphonse Daudet to his namesake literary academy. That academy annually awards a namesake prize to the best French prose work.
  Part 2 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    The 1919 Goncourt prize was awarded to Within a Budding Grove, a volume of this author's In Search of Lost Time.
  Part 3 (ans: Bertolt Brecht):
    In 2003, the prize went to Jacques-Pierre Arnette for his novel about the mistress of this other author, who wrote Drums in the Night and The Caucasian Chalk Circle.

[B22] 2013 ACF Regionals (2013) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This novel's characters include Draco the Great and Kraken, who disguises himself as the Dragon of Alca. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Penguin Island [or L'Ile des Pingouins]):
    Name this Anatole France novel in which Saint Mael baptizes the title birds.
  Part 2 (ans: The Gods are Athirst [or Les Dieux ont Soif]):
    In this other Anatole France novel, set during the Reign of Terror, the painter Evariste Gamelin cannot stop executing people, including his friend Maurice Brotteaux.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    Anatole France also wrote a foreword to this author's collection Pleasures and Days. This man described Charles Swann's memories in his sprawling novel In Search of Lost Time.

[B23] 2012 ACF Nationals (2012) | Diff: 9 | Literature
     Leadin: This collection includes several sketches of Provence, including one in which Father Gaucher brews liquor to save a monastery from financial ruin, but becomes a ribald drunkard in the process. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Letters from My Windmill [or Letters from My Mill; or Lettres de mon moulin]):
    Name this collection which includes short stories such as "The Old Couple" and "Monsieur Seguin's Goat."
  Part 2 (ans: Alphonse Daudet):
    Letters from My Windmill was written by this French naturalist of Tartarin de Tarascon. Georges Bizet composed incidental music to his play L'Arlesienne.
  Part 3 (ans: Marcel Proust):
    Daudet's son Lucien had an affair with this novelist, who wrote about the Guermantes and Swann families in his seven-volume masterpiece, In Search of Lost Time.
