=== STOCK CLUES: Marjane Satrapi ===
Tossup questions: 2 found, 10 clue sentences extracted
Bonus questions: 3 found, 9 bonus parts extracted

--- TOSSUP ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[T1] 2021 NASAT (2021) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Answer: Marji Satrapi [or Marji Satrapi; or Marjane Satrapi; prompt on the narrator of Persepolis]
  - When a nun yells at this character for eating pasta out of a pot, this character replies, "You were all prostitutes before becoming nuns." This character gets the highest score on an exam after God tells her in a dream that it will be about a Montesquieu essay on slavery, which calls back to this character's nightly discussions with God as a child.
  - This character, who rebels by listening to Michael Jackson and Kim Wilde, designs an amusement park for her college thesis before divorcing her husband Reza.
  - This character receives bread swans from her uncle Anoosh before his execution and is later sent to boarding school in Vienna.
  - For 10 points, name this protagonist and author who wrote about growing up during the Iranian Revolution in her graphic memoir Persepolis. [GIVE]

[T2] 2020 IKEA (2020) | Diff: 7 | Literature
     Answer: Marjane Satrapi [accept either underlined portion; accept Marji Satrapi]
  - In a 2003 novel, this character recalls selling cigarettes to pay for an operation on her grandmother's nose. [PWR]
  - This character serves tea to six old women who discuss the title euphemism for vaginal surgery in that novel, Embroideries. [PWR]
  - In another work, this character parodies Michelangelo's Pieta by drawing Mary holding a dead soldier to gain admission to art school. [PWR]
  - In that work, she reads the Marxist comic "Dialectical Materialism" and is mentored by her (*) uncle Anoosh. [PWR]
  - This author returns to her home country and sees her friend Nami fall off a building, after a wine-drinking party is shut down by religious police, in a work which depicts her move to Vienna at age 14.
  - For 10 points, what author wrote about coming of age during the 1979 Islamic Revolution in her graphic novel Persepolis? [GIVE]

--- BONUS ANSWERLINE CLUES ---

[B1] 2024 ACF Regionals (2024) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: In a play set in this city, a teacher who returned after years in Manchester is surprised that one of her students knows the word "windbreaker." For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Tehran [accept Reading Lolita in Tehran]):
    Name this city that also partly titles a memoir centered on a professor's experiences running an all-women book club in this city that discusses Western authors such as Vladimir Nabokov.
  Part 2 (ans: Marjane Satrapi ):
    The protagonist of this author's semi-autobiographical graphic novel Persepolis leaves Tehran for France during the Iranian Revolution.
  Part 3 (ans: English ):
    Iranian-American playwright Sanaz Toossi won the 2023 Pulitzer Prize for Drama for this play, in which four adults prepare for the TOEFL exam at a storefront school where they are forbidden to speak Farsi.

[B2] 2017 (This) Tournament is a Crime (2017) | Diff: 10 | Literature
     Leadin: The narrator frequents a pet shop filled with animals terrified of the sniper fire and street battles going on outside, in Ghada Samman's novel titled for this city's Nightmares. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Beirut):
    Name this war-torn city where the shut-in septuagenarian Aaliya Saleh translates novels such as Austerlitz, in Rabih Alameddine's An Unnecessary Woman. Hoda Barakat's The Stone of Laughter, the first Arabic-language novel to feature a homosexual protagonist, is set in this city.
  Part 2 (ans: graphic novel [or comic book; the other book is Marjane Satrapi's Persepolis]):
    Lamia Ziade depicted the violence in Beirut during the Lebanese Civil War in her autobiographical novel Bye Bye Babylon, which has this format. A fourteen-year old girl is sent to a boarding school in Austria to escape a similarly ruinous conflict at the end of part one of an autobiography of this type.
  Part 3 (ans: Khalil Gibran [or Khalil Jubran]):
    This Lebanese author set his novel The Broken Wings during turn of the century Beirut, well before the civil war. He is better known for his new-agey book The Prophet.

[B3] 2015 ACF Regionals (2015) | Diff: 8 | Literature
     Leadin: This character sits in a bathtub for hours after hearing about how her grandfather was tortured. For 10 points each:
  Part 1 (ans: Marji Satrapi [or Marjane Satrapi; accept any underlined name alone]):
    Name this girl who loses faith in God after the execution of her uncle and is sent away to school in Austria after becoming politically outspoken. Later in life, her design for a theme park based on legendary characters is rejected.
  Part 2 (ans: Ayatollah Ruhollah Mostafavi Moosavi Khomeini):
    Much of Marjane Satrapi's graphic novel Persepolis takes place under the rule of this Iranian leader, who notoriously issued a fatwa against Salman Rushdie for writing The Satanic Verses.
  Part 3 (ans: Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books):
    Ayatollah Khomeini is compared to Humbert Humbert in this Azar Nafisi "memoir in books" which has sections titled for Henry James, Jane Austen, and Jay Gatsby.
